FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 64 trunk, and in this respect man occupies a position between the carnivora and the purely herbivorous animals, the tiger and lion having an intestine three times their length, the dog five, while the pig, an omnivorous feeder, has one sixteen times its body length, the horse twelve, the ox twenty, and the goat twenty-six. Like the stomach, the intestine is a muscular tube lined with mucous membrane plentifully supplied with glands. The inner coat of muscles is circular, the outer runs lengthways (fig. 9. d, e), and by means of these the intestine is capable of a wave-like motion not unlike that shown by a worm crawling When the blood is highly oxygenated, as before birth or during sleep, there is no stimulus, and consequently no movement; on the other hand, when the stimulus is increased either by excess of carbonic acid gas in the blood or by direct stimula- tion, peristaltic action is increased, and with a more severe stimulus the muscles become exhausted or even paralysed. The mucous membrane of the intestine deserves special notice. Unlike that of the stomach, which forms longitudinal creases, the intestinal mucous membrane is thrown into a series of crescentic folds, as shown in the figure, these folds, called valvulce conniventes, serving to increase the digestive and absorptive surface. Further, to attain this end, the interior surface of the intestine is thrown into innumerable finger-like projections called villi (Fig. 9, a), which clip into the fluid mass of food, and serve mainly as absorbants, by which digested materials find their way into the blood and lymph vessels. Fig. 8.—Valvules Conniventes, exhibited in a portion of jejunum cut open. Two-thirds natural size. along the ground. By means of this slow forward motion, termed 2^'islalsis, the contents of the bowel are slowly forced down at the rate of rather less than half an inch per minute, the total time taken to traverse the small bowel being about three hours. The amount of peristaltic movement, like that of the digestive juices, depends upon the stimulus given by food and by the nature of the blood supply.