FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 258 because in this disorder the blood is deficient in water; and, since the small intestine is more especially the seat of attack, the food should be such as can be digested and absorbed in the stomach, i.e. farinaceous and fatty foods should be reduced to a minimum, the diet consisting of animal albuminates, salts, extractives, and other stimulants. In Rectal Feeding it has to be remembered that although the large intestine absorbs readily enough suitable fluid materials, such as water with dissolved salts and peptonized foods, still it has no direct digestive action, and it is entirely powerless to digest say an enema of beef-tea or milk, except the salts contained in these, while enemata not nearly so nutritive, consisting of wine and alcohol, are readily absorbed. Since the large intestine is irritated by acids, all nutrient injections should be alkalinized by adding baking-soda. The following is highly recommended for rectal feeding:—Egg yolk beaten up with a glass of milk, and peptonized by adding 2 dessert-spoonfuls of solid peptone or 2 table-spoonfuls of liquid peptone with 7 or 8 grains of baking-soda, and 5 drops of laudanum to soothe the highly-irritated bowel. Ewald found that richness in peptone is no criterion of absorbability, and, as a matter of fact, eggs, which are poor in peptone, arc more readily absorbed than other foods containing 2 to 5 times the amount of peptone. Instead of using peptone the eggs may be prepared at half the cost and with increased efficiency by adding pepsin and hydrochloric acid, as in gastric digestion, or the liquor pancreaticus to imitate intestinal digestion. Absorption is further facilitated by the addition of 15 grs. of common salt to each egg. To prevent rejection by the bowel, the latter should be washed out by an enema of tepid water, after which the food, warmed to about blood-heat, should be introduced very slowly, best not from a syringe at all, but delivered from a funnel by an'india-rubber tube solely by the action of gravity. With due care the food may even succeed in passing the ileo-colic valve and reaching the small intestine, where digestive activity is great. Disorders of the Stomach itself, such as gastric catarrh, ulcer, or cancer, call for rest to that organ; therefore all foods must be non-irritating, and given at as long intervals as is consistent with nourishment. Milk diluted with an equal bulk of iced alkaline water, with the occasional addition of watery arrowroot, will be found at once bland and nourishing; but for chronic cases, and indeed dyspepsia generally, butter-milk