92 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. globin", is dark purple. The bearing of tin's upon respiration is obvious. In order to develop energy, the body, like the steam-engine, requires a combustible substance or fuel in the shape of food, and also a supporter of combustion in the shape of atmospheric oxygen. We have already seen that food pro- ducts find their way into blood, becoming its plasma, and now the red corpuscles, in virtue of their haemoglobin, act as oxygen-carriers to the tissues, combining with oxygen in the lungs to form oxy-haemoglobin, which gives aerated blood its bright scarlet colour, and parting with that oxygen to the tissues, thus giving the blood returning from these a darker shade. The chemistry of haemoglobin also explains the action of certain volatile poisons such as coal-gas, sulphuretted hydro- gen, prussic acid, &c. In all these the haemoglobin forms with the poisonous gas a new compound, preventing its union with oxygen in the lungs, so that there is really oxygen-starvation induced, not mechanically by closing the windpipe as in suffocation, but chemically, by the pre-occupation of haemoglo- bin in the blood itself. The following will be found a useful summary of the constitution of blood:— / Water 3. fK,ed = \ (■ Stroma or framework. (Solids J i l 90 % Hicmatin. I Corpuscles i 1 (Hamiogoblin J 8 % l'roteids. ( 2 % other matters. Blood = i v White ; 1 to 300 or 700 of red. : Fibrin-factors Plasma § J <« Water. , , ( Serum \ (Proteids 80 to 90 % = Blood album. ( i Solids < Fats, extractives, salts, &c, 20 to I 10%. The amount of blood in the body is generally reckoned at of the body-weight, and it is distributed roughly as follows: — \ in the heart and great vessels; \ in the skeletal muscles; £ in the liver and spleen; £ in the rest of the body. Blood is thus a liquid tissue, living in the same sense that muscle or nerve is living, and serving as a bridge between the living and the dead, carrying to the active living cells of muscle and nerve, gland and bone, at once the dead matters they require for their own sustenance, and the fuel from which they liberate energy, and on the other hand, by means of its red corpuscles, that oxygen from the outside world, without which such liberation of energy would be impossible.