FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 178 for a few minutes in boiling water, then dried as quickly as possible. This makes them hard and horny, and they are ground into powder; boiling water is added with sugar and milk according to taste. It is a diet drink, and before the introduction of coffee was a favourite early morning drink with the British workman, and it is still so used in France. It is nutritious and soothing, and besides starch contains phos- phate of lime and mucilaginous matters. Although not a tuber, Sago may be classed with the above substances. It is the pith of a palm cultivated in Sumatra and the East Indies generally. After the tree has flowered the leaves begin to exude a floury substance, a sign that the tree is ripe. It is cut down within the year, cut into lengths, split open, and the pith extracted. The cellulose is separated as in arrowroot, by maceration through sieves, and the starch which settles at the bottom of the washings is dried in the usual way. It is not quite soluble in water as ordinary starch is, and is therefore suited for puddings, &c. Sago is light, cheap, nutritious, and easily digested. Vegetable Roots.—The next class of vegetables are valued as esculents rather than as food-stuffs. They contain a large amount of water, 90 per cent, about 2 per cent of proteid matter, and 7 per cent of starch, but they are chiefly useful as antiscorbutics on account of the salts they contain. Carrots when young are useful and wholesome. They con- tain from 85 to 88 per cent of water, 8 of carbohydrates, 1 of salts, and fully 1 of proteid substances. The pale central por- tion consists almost entirely of woody fibre, and cultivation aims at increasing the outer red fleshy portion. The carbo- hydrates are mostly sugar and pectose, but the carrot cannot be said to be very digestible. Parsnijis contain as much as 16 per cent of food-stuffs, mostly sugar. Though their flavour is disliked by some, they are more nutritious than carrots, and their sweetness renders them a favourite with children. When left too long in the ground they get "rusty", and after beginning to sprout in spring they become acrid. They are best after a touch of frost, and are all the more acceptable, as then the potatoes are getting bad. They form good winter feeding, and cows fed upon parsnips not only show an excellent quality of flesh but produce butter superior to that obtained from any other kind of winter feeding. From their large quantities of sugar, parsnips are often