FISH. 157 or Spring Lobster resembles the lobster in flavour. The smaller crustaceans, such as Shrimps and Prawns, are rather to be regarded as stimulants than as food, though the circumstance that the shells are also eaten in whole or part, adds a good deal of mineral matter to the body in the form of magnesia and lime carbonates. They are best cooked in sea-water, and when taken as an occasional treat have a distinct appetizing effect. Mollusca are re presented by the oyster, mussel, whelk, peri- winkle, cockle, and other marine forms, as well as the terrestrial snails so largely used in France. Of all the molluscs the Oyster takes the first place, and the small "natives" are the finest in flavour. When fresh and rawit is very digestible, but cooking- converts it into an indigestible leathery mass. The hard muscle which closes the shell is much firmer and proportionately more difficult to digest than the soft part which forms the bulk of the animal. This latter is the liver, and in eating oysters raw the liver ferment is allowed to act upon the glycogen stored within that organ, so that the oyster is in a sense self-digested. The composition of oysters is given as follows: Water, 89-69; proteids, 4-95; fat, 0-37; extractives, 2-62. As these figures show, the value of oysters as a food is extremely small; in order to get the required daily allowance of nitrogen —300 grains—one would have to take ten dozen oysters daily. They are only in season in the months containing an "r". The Mussel is a very succulent shell-fish, and Avken cooked in sea- water with a little vinegar is a dainty enough dish; but it is a very foul feeder, often flourishing in sewage-contaminated waters, and unfortunately it is out of season at the very time when the cities strew their inhabitants by tens of thousands along the coast. The mussel, has an evil reputation for poison- ous qualities, and there has been obtained from it a poison of the nature of a ptomaine, called mytilotoxin, and this exists in the liver, more especially in the summer months, May to September, the very time when mussels are eaten indiscrimi- nately. Bacteria of various kinds have also been found in the liver. Two well-marked cases of mussel-poisoning are recorded in the British Medical Journal, the Liverpool case of September, 1888, and the Dublin case, July, 1890. In London district the Whelk is largely used, especially among the poorer classes. In the south of England these arc obtained by dredging, but the Galloway whelks are caught by fish-bait. They were more highly esteemed in the middle ages than now; 8000 whelks formed part of a feast given by