39 SUGARS. water dissolves much larger quantities and if a hot saturated solution be slowly cooled, large yellowish crystals will be formed, well known as sugar-candy. If, however, a sugar solution be heated till the temperature rises to 170 or 180 U (365°F) a molecular change occurs; the substance loses its crystalline character, and forms on cooling a yellowish glassy mass called barky-sugar. Sugar is thus allotropic that is, capable of assuming different forms, crystalline and colloid, while retaining the same chemical composition. It will be interesting to watch the behaviour of sugar heated in a dry test-tube. When the temperature rises to 160 G. (320° F) the crystals melt, then at 180° C. the sugar assumes the colloid condition of barley-sugar, then at about 216 O. (420° F ) the sugar appears to lose more water and it becomes burnt-sugar or caramel, while by a stronger heat it is completely carbonized. Caramel has a dark-brown colour, a peculiar smell and bitterish taste, not unlike that of molasses or bread-crust. It further differs from ordinary sugar in not being fermentable, and, indeed, rather tends to kill germs. It dissolves very easily in water, and is much used as a colouring matter for brandy, whisky, and other naturally colourless distillates, as well as for colouring soups. Caramel is just as nutritious as sugar itself. As was seen in the first lesson, it is produced along with dex- trin in toasting bread; it occurs largely in the crust of well- fired loaves, and indeed whenever any carbohydrate or fat is strongly heated. It forms the basis of "beurre noire and other brown sauces, and is formed in the grilling or roasting of meat and fish, though in the latter case it will be accom- panied by dextrin from the flour or bread-crumbs usually put on the fish, and there will very likely be some carbon formed as well. . 1 , Besides ordinary sugar there is another important class ot sugars known as Glucoses, also consisting of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, but in slightly different proportions, as follows:— carbon 40, hydrogen 6"7, oxygen 53-3 per cent. The chief varieties of glucose are dextrose or grape-sugar, and levulose or fruifrsugar. Both are contained in honey, and may be obtained by the following method: Shake up some honey with its own bulk of alcohol, allow the sediment to settle, then decant off the alcohol and repeat with fresh spirit. In this way the levulose, which is pretty soluble in alcohol, is dissolved out, while the dextrose, soluble with difficulty in alcohol, is left behind. These two sugars get their names from their respective