7G FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. As has been said, the small intestine is characterized by a great increase of surface owing to its crescentic folds, and still more to the minute projections called villi, which cover the whole surface. The structure of a Villus will be understood from the figure. The free surface consists of columnar epithelium cells (fig. 14, a) and goblet cells (e), similar to the general surface of the bowel; below this, and constituting the body of the villus, is a mass of spongy basket-work or "adenoid" tissue, supplied with blood-vessels (b, c) and nerves, and containing strands of muscle, by virtue of which the whole villus may contract and relax again. The spaces of this spongy tissue communicate with each other and with a central space or vessel (d), called the Lacteal, which serves to drain the contents away from the bowel. If the lacteal has any wall at all, it is a very thin one and porous, so as to dis- charge its chief function, viz. the absorption of emulsified fats. The minute oil-globules of the emulsion are taken up by the vital action of the epithelial cells, passed through the underlying spongy tissue, and so sent on to the lacteal, which conveys them into the lymphatic system. The vital activity of the cells is manifested in another way. We have already seen that albumen is converted into peptone for purposes of diffusion, but in passing through the walls of the alimen- tary canal into the blood-vessels beneath, this peptone is some- how converted into albumen again, for not a trace of peptone is found in the blood; indeed, if peptone be injected into the blood it has a disturbing influence, and is rapidly excreted by the kidneys, while in large doses it proves fatal. In a similar manner saponified fats seem to reunite with glycerin in the villi, so as to reconstitute neutral fats, for no tatty acids are found free, either in the blood-vessels or the lymphatics of the small intestine. It will be seen later on that the other great class of food-stuffs, the carbohydrates, are treated in a like fashion, the starches which were converted into sugar beinw reconverted into a kind of starch in the liver. The processes of absorption from the intestine may be sum- marized as follows:— , 1,1 (a) Solutions are absorbed into both blood-vessels and luteals. 1. Water and soluble salts, into the blood-vessels chiefly. 5 b d c b Fis 14.—A Villus of the Small Intestine, largely mugnified.