ANIMAL FOOD. 145 Water, {Soluble albumen and hrematin, ... Insoluble albumen, ... Gelatinous substances, Extractives, Keratin, Ash, Fresh Meat, Lean (Parkes). 73-4 2'25 15-2 3-3 1-38 •068 1-6 Lean Beef (Pavy). 72-0 19-3 Fats, 3-6 Salts, 51 The composition of meat is affected by various factors, such as the age of the animal, sex, breed, condition, feeding, &c. In young animals the muscles are not fully formed, and are more watery, so that young meat may lose from \ to \ of its weight in cooking; the syntonin or muscle-albumen is replaced by gelatine-forming substances, and the fat and salts are also diminished in amount. These defects are exemplified by veal, the use of which may lead to disturbance of the digestive system unless the animal has been "fed" for some time, and even then it is wanting in flavour and nourishing properties, though owing to the prevalence of immature proteids, forming gelatine on boiling, it is well suited for soups. The best beef is obtained from a four-year-old ox, and the best mutton from three-year-old sheep. The flesh of the female is always more delicate than that of the male, and especially at the breeding season the flesh of the latter is apt to be coarse and rank, so that animals bred for feeding have their flesh improved in flavour by early removal of the sexual organs. All animals used as food are vegetable feeders, with the exception of the pig, which may be called omnivorous, though never better than when restricted to its proper vegetable diet, and in many cases the flavour of the several feeding-stuffs is imparted to the flesh. The cpiantity of meat is greatly influenced by breed, and the condition and general health of the animal, as well as by the particular part from which the cut is made; thus the flank contains 43 per cent of water, but the round of beef 60 per cent. It is customary to drain off blood as much as possible before sending out a carcass, and this is carried to excess in the case of veal, when the calf is bled to death. The effects of remov- ( M 173 ) K