FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 214 action, and in this way hot tea may exercise a cooling effect just as in the case of alcohol. These alkaloids are powerful antidotes to alcoholic poisoning, and perhaps this explains the customary cup of strong coffee which closes a public dinner. Strong coffee is a well-known remedy in cases of laudanum or opium poisoning, on account of the wakefulness it produces, and the student who wishes to steal a few hours from the night in view of a coming exam, knows how to utilize this property. Taken in excess tea or coffee will produce sleeplessness, nervousness, palpitation of the heart, and muscular tremors, &c, and when such effects follow the offending cause should be at once removed. In many < the appearance of such nervous symptoms marks a season of undue excitement and worry from other causes, and when these external circumstances change for the better the sub- jective symptoms change with these. In the British Medical Journal, June 1888, Surgeon W. T. Black blames tea for loss of teeth, alleging that its excessive use leads to inflammation and abscess of the roots. To sum up:—Tea is a valuable stimulant for persons who need stimulating, the soldier on the march, the cyclist on tour, the business man struggling with competition, the elderly man whose energies are nagging, the commercial whose dinner- hour is an unknown quantity, to ladies exhausted by shopping, and, shall we add, to the shop-girls more exhausted still in that process; but for children, whose energy needs the brake rather than the whip, for the man whose hours are regular and meals assured, indulgence in these alkaloids, even tea, the weakest of them, is but adding one more useless habit to a nature already too little free. Coffee comes from a shrub, the Caffea arabica, and is the seed stripped of its coverings and dried. For consumption the berries are further prepared by roasting, an operation which should be postponed till the last moment. In roasting, at 210° C. or over, the berries lose 15 to 20 per cent of their weight, chiefly in water, though about half their caffeine is also expelled; they become dark-brown, and the small amount of natural sugar in them is converted into caramel. At the same time the heat disassociates caffeine from the caffeo- tannic acid in which it existed, and also develops the peculiar volatile oil which gives to coffee its characteristic aroma. Since this oil is very volatile, the roasting must neither be too severe nor too prolonged—the best temperature is 210° C,