62 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. condiments, mustard, spices, &c, which in small quantities stimulate the gastric glands, but exhaust them when taken in excess. In all cases of indigestion the golden rule is, small quantities eaten slowly. If the gastric glands are clogged with mucus, this obstruction may be washed out by a tea-cupful of hot water shortly before meals; the hot water here serving not only to remove the obstructing mucus, but by its warmth to encourage an increased supply of blood to the stomach. If the pepsin be deficient, then the proteid food taken must be proportionately diminished, and the stomach encouraged to increase the supply; or the deficiency may be made up by peptonizing the food and so saving the stomach unnecessary labour, remembering, however, that artificial pepsin is only a crutch, and that what is wanted is to make the stomach self- supporting. All irritating food should be avoided; even milk, though sufficiently bland, is in many cases objectionable, because it coagulates in the stomach, forming large clots of casein. This may be avoided by peptonizing the milk before- hand, or by taking care that the casein shall be coagulated in a finely-divided form, as happens naturally with human milk. This may be done by adding barley-water, which by its muci- laginous condition prevents the formation of clots, or by lemon juice, or even a few drops of hydrochloric acid, which precipitates the casein as a fine powder. The object aimed at is to give the pepsin of the stomach a large surface to work upon, and so all meat should be taken minced, short-fibred meats being preferred, and bread should be toasted or stale, so as to be readily broken up by the teeth, and to avoid forming large heavy sodden masses. In cases of severe gastric catarrh, when even milk does not agree, the use of whey, or, better still, of butter-milk, will be found of great advantage. A con- tinental stomach specialist gives as his dictum in dyspepsia, " When the patient is thirsty, let him drink butter-milk; when the patient is hungry, let him eat butter-milk ". In dyspepsia and other gastric disorders it is a common practice to give bland starchy foods like arrowroot, but the wisdom of this course is open to question. The stomach does not deal at all with starchy foods, and what is wanted is, not to ignore the stomach, but to train it by slow degrees to perform its proper functions. Starchy matters undergo lactic fermentation, and this is very apt to be followed by butyric fermentation, accompanied by the evolution of carbonic acid gas and hydrogen. These gases disturb the stomach, and