44 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. Next in importance to phosphorus as a mineral element conies calcium, the element in Lime. Our supplies of this sub- stance are naturally obtained from vegetable and animal foods, as well as from the lime compounds in most drinking-waters. The popular belief is that a very pure water, like that of Loch Katrine, is too deficient in lime salts, and that therefore the bones of the young citizens of Glasgow suffer in consequence. It is no uncommon practice to blame nature for the results of one's own ignorance and folly, and in the present instance the presence of rickets and bandy-legs among the children of the poorer classes is due to mal-nutrition, and especially to the fact that tea has almost entirely ousted the national oatmeal. If compounds of lime be denied in sufficient quantity, then it is withdrawn from other tissues, particularly the bones and muscles, to supply the more active parts of the organism, exactly as happens in nitrogen starvation. All tissues contain lime, and it seems essential to cell-growth. The presence of lime salts contributes largely to the coagulation of blood and milk. The two leading alkalies, Potash and Soda, though chemically allied, play very different roles in the body, and do not seem to be interchangeable. Speaking generally, potash is most abundant in the solid tissues, and soda in the fluids. Soda is more abundant in the early stages of life, and bulks largely in the spleen, liver, and bile; it takes the leading position in serum, the liquid part of the blood, while the more solid clot is richer in potash. The commonest soda compound is sodium chloride or common salt, which exists in all the tissues. It is very soluble in water, and hence leaves the body largely in urine, the daily loss from this source requiring to be met by taking salt in food. Another use of common salt, and of chlorides generally, is to supply the cells of the stomach glands with the materials of hydrochloric acid, the acid found in gastric juice. Potash salts are curiously deficient in lung tissue. The Vegetable Acids, oxalic, tartaric, citric, and malic acids, along with lactic acid from butter-milk and acetic acid in vine- gar, are decomposed within the system, forming alkaline car- bonates, and thus serve to preserve the alkalinity of the blood. Combined with potash and soda these vegetable acids are found in great abundance in all unripe fruits, and in the process of ripening become partly converted into sugars. Certain fruits are characterized by certain acids; thus grapes contain tartaric acid; apples, malic acid (Lat. malum, an apple); lemons,