242 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. gative, and therefore these waters are given to remove dropsy, plethora, and constipation, especially the chronic constipation which arises from absence of exercise, coupled with the use of too bland a diet. 2. Bitter waters owe their taste and aperient action to the fact that they contain sulphate of magnesia (Epsom salts) as well as carbonate of soda. This substance is a mild purgative, less rapid in action than sulphate of soda, and has, besides, a stimulating effect upon the kidneys. In this division are placed the waters of Kissingen, Seidlitz, and Friedrichshall. 3. Haloid waters, or waters containing chlorides, are divisible into several classes, depending on the particular chlorides pre- sent. The hot springs of Wiesbaden and Baden-Baden, and the cold waters of Cheltenham and Homburg, contain common salt (sodium chloride) simply. Others contain in addition chloride of lithium, and this makes these more serviceable in cases of gout. When water is almost satui'ated with salt it becomes brine, used in the form of baths in Cheshire and else- where. Kreuznach water may be taken as a sample of water containing chlorides, bromides, and iodides; it is chiefly used for scrofula. In virtue of the common salt it contains, as well as bromides and chlorides of magnesium and others with traces of iodine, sea-water might epiite well be included in this class, though perhaps its extent and cheapness put it beyond the influence of a " boom ". 4. Calcareous waters, as the name implies, contain lime, as sulphate or carbonate, and may be regarded as extra hard waters. Like lime-water itself, these are popularly supposed to play an important part in the formation of bone, and the softness of Loch Katrine water has had to bear the blame of many a case of rickets really due to neglect of maternal duties. Since most of the lime taken into the body is expelled by the bowels as such, and since it is, moreover, apt to form insoluble salts within the body, it is very doubtful whether these waters have any advantages beyond being palatable. The waters of Bath influence the kidneys, but this may be due to their tem- perature. 5. Thermal waters, like the last-named, are chiefly used to stimulate the skin and kidneys, and excite the nervous system; they contain a small proportion of mineral matter. Among these may be mentioned the hot springs of Gastein, Clifton, and Buxton. 6. Chalybeate and Ferruginous waters contain salts of iron,