FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 134 process this fat almost entirely disappears, being reduced to ■5 or -1 per cent only. So much has been said about the distinction between real and artificial butter that it may not be amiss to describe the manufacture of the latter. By the Act of 1887 all butter substitutes are known collectively as Margarine, instead of butterine, though in the United States the name oleo-margarine is used. In order to produce margarine from animal fat, the fresh fat is freed as far as possible from foreign matter, skin, muscle, connective tissue, &c, then it is passed through a sort of mincing-machine called the "hasher", which breaks it up into small pieces. These now go to melting-tanks, which are warmed on the glue-pot principle by water contained in an outer vessel, and the beat is maintained at or below 39° C. As the melting proceeds, scum rises to the surface, and this is skimmed off, leaving the oil floating on the heavier water. The oil is now decanted into wooden " coolers ", when the stearin, being the least soluble of the fats, begins to crystallize, and its separation is further encouraged by removal to the cooler atmosphere of the press-room, kept at from 2G-5° to 32° C. The separated stearin is removed by filtration through cotton cloths, and the process is completed by pressure, the stearin remaining in the presses as a hard cake, while the softer margarine is forced through. The latter is now coloured to imitate butter, and churned with milk to give it the butyric flavour, when it is ready for food. It is used either alone as margarine, especially for cooking purposes, or churned with butter to form various " mixtures " for table use. There can be no doubt at all as to the high value of mar- garine as a food. Many of the so-called " mixtures " contain over 90 per cent of pure butter, and are thus, even as butter, superior to inferior articles of that name. The prejudice against margarine is rapidly disappearing in towns, and a " mixture " at from Id. to 9d. the pound can more than hold its own against butter at lOd. or Is., even for table purposes, while for baking, the cheaper kinds are quite as good as butter and half the cost. On the other hand, it is said that there is 1-6 per cent more absorbed of artificial than of natural butter. SUMMARY. 1. Butter consista almost entirely of fat (80 per cent) and water, with a little casein and salt.