193 FRUITS. cold; oi- more speedily by squeezing a lemon and adding aerated water from a gasogene, so as to form "lemon squash". A spurious lemonade is often made by adding citric acid to water and flavouring with essence of lemon, and this becomes fraud when, instead of citric, tartaric and even sulphuric acids are used to give acidity. Lemon-peel is candied like that of the orange. Lemon-juice is highly esteemed in cases of rheu- matism, since the citric acid in decomposing in the stomach oxidizes such elements as would tend to form uric acid, form- ing instead urea and carbonic acid, two substances capable of easy excretion, and so assisting metabolism. The Lime is smaller than the lemon, and the juice extremely acid, containing about 32{ grains of citric acid to the ounce. It is chiefly used in the shape of lime-juice as an antiscorbutic, and by the Board of Trade regulations the juice must have a specific gravity of 1030 without spirit, and contain at least 30 grains of citric acid to the ounce. To render its taste more agreeable, about half its own weight of sugar is added, then an ounce of brandy or whisky to every ten of juice, which addition gives it a greenish-yellow colour; then olive-oil is poured on the top to exclude air. The juice may also be preserved by boiling and sealing while hot without adding spirit at all. The Shaddock and Citron are other trees of the citron tribe, and produce fruits similar to the orange, and used in a similar fashion. Stone Fruits. — The Plum, Bullace, and Sloe are by many reckoned as distinct species, but others consider these last to be only varieties of the plum, like the Damson and Green-gage. They vary greatly in size, a single victoria or magnum bonum being equal to eight or ten damsons. There is no fruit so apt to irritate the digestive organs if eaten unripe, over-ripe, or in large quantity, colic and diarrhoea being the result. They are thus generally used in tarts or made into preserves, only the larger and sweeter sorts being served at table. Damsons are more highly prized than plums for preserve- making, and are also used in damson-pies and damson-cheese, made like fig-cake. A special kind of plum grown in the south of France is even more indigestible, and forms when dried the medicinal prune. Common Prunes are dried plums, and are largely used in desserts, stewed and served with cream; they are often useful in removing habitual constipation. The ratio of sugar to free acid in plums is very low, 163 : 1; but in damsons, 7-03 : 1. (M173) N