FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 86 of blood, and are the same substance in different degrees of oxidation; biliverdin (green) occurs in the bile of herbivora, bilirubin (brown) in that of carnivora, but the latter becomes green on exposure. They are further altered in the bowels, and give their characteristic colour to the faeces. Bile also contains a solid alcohol, cholesterin, which often occurs in biliary calculi. The bile salts are formed within the liver, and they are of importance, since they supply soda for the formation of soaps out of fatty foods, thus aiding the pancreatic juice to digest fats. Ox-gall, which is just hardened bile, is itself one of the best soaps known. The normal course of bile is into the bowels, by which most of its constituents are excreted except the bile salts; these are reabsorbed by the veins of the intestine and find their way back to the liver, thus moving in a circle represented by liver cells—bile capillaries—bile duct—bowels —intestinal veins—portal vein—interlobular veins—liver cells. The compressing action of the diaphragm in ordinary breath- ing greatly assists the flow of bile, and one can easily see the effect which riding, running, or even walking must have upon the abdominal organs, and especially with reference to the flow not only of bile, but of blood and lymph, of a mass weighing from three to four pounds bounding up and down, as the liver does in riding. When the flow is obstructed the pressure of bile within the liver may be so great that it is reabsorbed by the lymphatics of the liver, and so gets into the blood, causing Jaundice. In such a case the faeces are hard, clayey, offensive, and slowly expelled, showing that bile stimulates the bowel, acting as a natural purgative, and at the same time exercising an antiseptic action, arresting putrefaction. Occasionally, as in sea-sickness, bile gets into the stomach, where it acts as an irritant poison, unless washed out by repeated draughts of hot water, in which it is easily soluble. Bile secretion and bile removal are two very different things, for, as has been seen, some of the materials of bile are reabsorbed in the bowel. The time- honoured blue-pill followed by a seidlitz-powder acts upon this principle, the former stimulating the flow of bile and the latter acting as a purgative, so preventing reabsorption. The chief function of bile is exercised in connection with the digestion of fats; not only does it emulsify neutral fats, and by moistening the pores of the villi assist absorption, but, being itself a neutral substance, it forms a connecting link between