141 EGGS. tively large amount of iron present. For such purposes the yolks may be administered switched in milk. In some people the habitual use of eggs is said to induce nettle-rash. " Lait de poule " is made by beating up yolks in hot water, then adding sugar and some aromatic flavouring such as orange- flower water. The common practice of adding rum and brandy to eggs is generally mistaken; the alcohol coagulates the albu- men into a hard cheesy mass, as may be seen by dropping an egg into spirits. An egg is never more digestible than when newly laid, since its albumen gets less digestible daily. As will be seen from the table of gastric digestion on p. 60, they are most digestible when switched raw, and the more they are boiled the more cheesy and indigestible do they become, hard-boiled egg being the most indigestible form of albumen known. If, however, a hard-boiled egg is finely grated the albumen is readily dissolved by the digestive juices. The common practice of baking eggs in puddings is thus entirely wrong; so far from the presence of eggs making such puddings " light", it increases their indi- gestibility; and for invalids a light custard without eggs will be found more easily tolerated by the stomach and assimilated by the tissues. The "lightness" is really due to the introduc- tion of air in the process of " whipping " the eggs, and the egg- albumen is thus presented, not in mass, but finely divided; still, the tendency is to overload puddings with eggs, in the mistaken search for richness. As an egg becomes old its unstable organic matter decom- poses, giving off various gases, sulphuretted hydrogen and others. Thus the egg becomes lighter and opaque, and these may be used as a test of freshness. A fresh egg, examined against the light, should be perfectly homogeneous, whereas in decay a dark spot may be observed at the top, owing to the develop- ment of an air-space. If a 10-per-cent solution of salt in water be made, 2 ozs. to the pint, a good egg will sink, and an indif- ferent one will float; a bad egg may float even in pure water. The decomposition of eggs is due to the entrance of putre- factive germs through the porous shell, so that eggs are pre- served by closing the pores in various ways. This may be done by smearing with butter, lard, gum, &c, and then covering with saw-dust. Another method is to steep the eggs in saturated lime-water; the solution gradually deposits lime on the shell, and thus closes the pores while increasing its thickness. An objection to this method is that some of the