230 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. tartar or potassium hydro-tartrate, often deposited as a crust upon casks and bottles, as well as lime tartrate, phosphates, and sulphates. The presence of lime and sulphuric acid is largely due to the vicious habit of " plastering , another con- cession to a false criterion of purity. Every natural wine is slightly muddy, but the connoisseurs have decreed that wine shall be transparent, and in order to obtain the required clear- ness gypsum or plaster of Paris is added. This has two re- sults: a fine precipitate is produced, which carries down most of the mucus and albuminous substances that offend the eye, along with a certain amount of tartaric acid removed in com- bination with the lime, leaving in its place sulphate of lime, for plaster of Paris, which is sulphate of lime, is slightly soluble in water. It is this sparingly soluble salt of lime which is largely responsible for the amount of gout due to the use of wine; natural grape-juice, or natural wine, like most fruit juices, rather tends to get rid of such obstructions within the body. Sherry wines especially are most liable to be adul- terated in this way, and in order to restore the cenanthic ether affected injuriously by " plastering ", recourse is had to further adulteration. An additional source of sulphuric acid is to be found in the process of "sulphurizing", specially applied to sweet white wines which tend to decompose easily. Sulphur is burned in the casks to fill them Avith sulphur dioxide, and then the wine is poured in. Sulphur dioxide is an antiseptic and so checks acetic fermentation, but it is exceedingly soluble, and by oxidation becomes sulphuric acid. The following table from Neubauer illustrates the transition from must or grape-juice to wine:— Must. Wink. Water, ... ... Water. Grape-sugar, 13 to 40 per cent, ... Less grape-sugar; alcohol, 7 to 14 per cent. Albuminoid bodies, ... ... ... Small residue of albuminoid bodies, acetic and succinic acids. SrtSterfSS "*' "' !D°-' but in smaUer proportions. Vegetable mucus Removed by plastering. Gums, Gums. Malic acid, ... ... Do., especially from unripe grapes. Salts of ammonium and similar bases, Colouring matter, ... ... ... Do. Organic acids, ... ... ... Do. Mineral matters, Do. Glycerin, tannin, cenanthic ether, a few yeast cells, &c.