182 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. central leaf-stalks are also eaten in the same way. It contains tannin as well as mucilage, and is easily digested. Asparagus is a vegetable of long standing as a delicacy, being mentioned as early as 425 B.C., and held in high esteem by the Romans. The green asparagus is the best variety, and it grows to perfection among the vines in Germany and France. The seeds are sometimes used on the Continent instead of coffee. It is only slightly nutritive, but it contains a crystal- line nitrogenous substance called Asparagin, which produces marked physiological effects. It is used as a cardiac sedative in palpitation, but is best known as a diuretic, communicating a disagreeable smell to the urine and largely increasing its flow; long-continued action even produces bloody urine. Asparagus is on this account often used as a solvent for urinary calculi, an infusion of the root being used for this purpose. Like celery, it has an aphrodisiac action. Nettles are often used in broth for clearing the complexion. The tops are cut when young, minced fine, and scalded with boiling water, which destroys the stinging juice, then added to ordinary broth. Lettuces are cooling, easy of digestion, antiscorbutic and moderately nutritious, and gently laxative in their action. They are rarely boiled, but generally eaten raw, with vinegar and oil. The milky juice of the lettuce is somewhat narcotic, and is used as a sedative. On the general subject of Salads one cannot do better than quote in full the directions of Sir Henry Thompson (Food and Feeding, p. 116):—The materials must be secured .fresh, and are not to be too numerous and diverse, must be well cleaned and washed without handling, and all water removed as far as possible. It should be made immediately before the meal, and kept cool until wanted. Not many servants can be trusted to execute the simple details involved in cross-cutting the lettuce, endive, or what not but two or three times in a roomy salad- bowl, placing one salt-spoonful of salt or half that quantity of pepper in a table-spoon, which is to be filled three times con- secutively with the best fresh olive-oil, stirring each briskly until the condiments have been thoroughly mixed and at the same time distributed over the salad. This is next to be tossed thoroughly but lightly, until every portion glistens, scattering meanwhile a little finely-chopped fresh tarragon and chervil, with a few atoms of chives, over the whole, so that sparkling green particles spot as with a pattern every