METHODS OF COOKING. 2G7 subject of sick dietaries, the student is advised to consult the standard works on the practice of medicine, and more especially Burney Yeo's invaluable work, Food in Health and Disease. SUMMARY. 1. In most disorders dietetic treatment proceeds upon the prin- ciple of rest, especially when the digestive organs themselves are involved. 2. Foods must therefore be easily absorbed and assimilated, yet sufficiently nutritious to maintain strength. 3. The standard food in most diseases is milk, diluted with hot water anil alkalinized. 4. Generally speaking, a patient approaches a child in proportion to the severity of an attack, and requires to imitate the child's or even the infant's diet both as to quality and quantity. 5. When the stomach is directly involved it has to be humoured and even surprised into digestion, the methods depending on the disease. 6. Metabolic disorders, like gout, call for increased elimination of waste and a diet calculated to give a minimum of waste. 7. In all abnormal conditions the " personal equation" bulks largely, and individual idiosyncracies must be carefully considered. Lesson 45.—METHODS OF COOKING. Man has been defined, by a Frenchman doubtless, as the cooking animal, and, with the exception of a few savage tribes, all races of men find it necessary to prepare their food by some process. Since the functions of digestion and assimila- tion are best carried on at blood-heat, one object of cooking food is to spare the bodily energies as much as possible by raising the food to that temperature; and again, in another direction, by softening hard tissues, or by hardening tough tissues, rendering them brittle, and so prepared for mastication. While these mechanical changes are brought about, cooking produces chemical changes also; thus, starch gets dextrinized or even changed into maltose, connective tissue becomes gelatin, and there are developed from the proteids of meat osmazone and other odorous substances which impart flavour and stimulate the appetite. Lastly, cooking plays a most