THE CIRCULATION. 95 only inch or so altogether. It is in the capillaries that interchange of products between blood and tissue takes place; the capillary walls being so thin that gases and liquids easily pass either way. Here the blood parts with its oxygen to the muscles, &c, receiving from them carbonic acid gas, and other "fatigue-products", while the blood-plasma also soaks through the walls and bathes the tissues in lymph, which, as has already been seen, is a sort of reservoir of nutriment, fed by the arteries, and drained off by lymphatics and veins. Since the composition of arterial blood is fairly uniform, and the wants of the tissues almost as varied as their structure, it is obvious that the composition both of lymph and the return- blood in the veins will present important differences in the several cases. Just as an artery divides and subdivides forming capillaries, so these in turn combine and re-combine into larger and larger vessels called Veins, conveying return-blood to the heart. Like arteries, veins have three coats, but the elastic and muscular elements are not so much developed, and the walls are thinner, collapsing when cut. They are larger than the corresponding arteries, and are distinguished by the presence of valves. These are crescentic folds in the lining of the vein, arranged in pairs so as to permit the passage of blood towards the heart, but filling and consecmently closing when from any cause the blood tends to flow back again. They are easily seen in the forearm; if one of the large veins be com- pressed at the elbow, the veins become gorged with blood, and the valves getting filled become visible as little knots. They are specially numerous in the veins of the leg and arm, where the weight of the blood would tend to produce stagnation in the current. In persons who are much on their feet all day, and whose muscles are not otherwise much worked, the veins of their legs are apt to become flabby and lose their "tone", thus laying a foundation for varicose veins. Whilst a partial remedy may be found in the use of elastic bandages, or even by reclining with the feet higher than the body, the cure for varicose veins is to be sought in restoring tone to the blood- vessels and exercising the muscles of the parts affected. When the relaxing effect of heat upon muscle is remembered, it will be apparent that the common practice of toasting the legs at the fire is largely responsible for this disorder. The circulation in the veins is maintained by two forces, the " push from behind " of blood from the capillaries, and pressure