167 THE CEREALS. Lesson 31.—THE CEREALS (Continued). is will be seen by a reference to the table on page 161, Oats head the list of cereals in respect of nutriment, especially in the matter of nitrogenous matters and fat, in the latter of which it excels the other cereals. The fat in oats is remarkable as not containing sufficient glycerin to neutralize the fatty acids oleic, stearic, and palmitic, so that there is some fatty acid free. Their nitrogenous principles amount to 11*73 per cent, and consist chiefly of gliadin and vegetable casein in the form of avenin, a substance resembling legumin in composition but gluten casein in properties. Oat gliadin contains nearly twice as much sulphur as that of wheat. Since the nitrogenous principles of oats do not form gluten on the addition of water, oats have no adhesiveness, and therefore cannot be made into bread. They are, however, readily baked into cakes, and in the forms of porridge and gruel are more readily cooked than either wheat or barley. One drawback to oats is the large amount of cellulose which they contain; this induces a laxative action in many people who are not accustomed to oatcakes or oatmeal porridge, and in others even dyspeptic symptoms occur, but this disappears on continuing the use of the grain. The pro- portion of ash in oats is large, and, as in most cereals, the ash consists of phosphates of potash, magnesia, and lime, with a high proportion of silica in this case. When the grain has been deprived of its outer coat it is known as Groats or Grits; when crushed, these form Embden groats, and these, with Quaker oats, Provost oats, similar brands, are becoming increasingly popular. The nutritive qualities of oats are well known. Although Johnson in his dictionary rather slighted oats when he described it as a grain used in Scotland for human food but in England for horses, the reply is obvious and unanswerable: " Where will you get such men, and where such horses?" It has the distinct advan- tage of consumption for long periods without a feeling of sameness, and the members of many a Scottish family have had porridge night and morning for their whole lifetime. Oats are said to be "heating", but this is not confirmed by those who use them constantly. Oatmeal in water forms a most refresh- ing drink during hard work, especially in hot weather. For invalids, especially those suffering from gastric catarrh or other stomach troubles, no more nourishing food can be