176 VOO\) AND ITS FUNCTIONS. present is coagulated, and the starch cells burst, liberating the starch, some of which may be turned into dextrin, which is soluble, and gives the potato a watery consistence. The object aimed at is the production of a "mealy" consistence, in which state the starch is very easily digested. To avoid loss of salts potatoes should be cooked " in their jackets ", since the small amount of albumen is not sufficient to form a protective skin as in meat; or, still better, they should be steamed. Cold boiled potatoes are often sliced and served in salads. Potatoes may be stored in pits or by keeping in a cool, dark, Avell-ventilated cellar, so as to keep out light and frost. The addition of a pound of lime to each barrel absorbs the unplea- sant earthy odour. Exposure to light makes potatoes green, bitter, and unwholesome, as is sometimes seen when a surface potato has been exposed by rain. Potatoes taken too early from the ground are apt to heat and sprout when stored. The potato disease is caused by a fungus which spreads its thread- like stems among the tissue. Diseased potatoes are indigestible in the highest degree, and should not be eaten at all. The Sweet-potato or Batatas is an entireby different plant, and next to maize forms the food of the poorer classes in the United States; it is also used in France and Spain. It contains 16 per cent of starch and 10 per cent of sugar, whence its name. Like the potato, it becomes mealy when boiled, and it furnishes a sweet, wholesome, somewhat laxative diet. Yams are the tropical substitute for potatoes. Like them they contain an acrid substance, dissipated on boiling, though several species are very nauseous after boiling, and some even poisonous. The yam contains a large amount of starch and cooks mealy, without the sweetness of the sweet-potato. The Jerusalem Artichoke is the tuber of a species of sun- flower, Jerusalem being a corruption of the Italian girasole, a sunflower, while the other part of the name is due to the sup- posed flavour of the tuber. It contains only 2 per cent of starch in the form of irmlin, and therefore never cooks mealy like potatoes. On the other hand, there is present 14 per cent of sugar and 3 per cent of nitrogenous substances, so that it is sweet, very watery, and mucilaginous when boiled, making good soups and sauces. Arrowroot is now a generic term given to the starches oh tained from the roots of several plants such as Maranta, Cur- cuma, Canna, Tacca, and Cassava. The Maranta root, or rather rhizome, contains 26 per cent of starch and about '2h per cent