FOOL) IN SICKNESS. will be found immensely superior, and better tolerated. Fats should be strictly forbidden, as they tend to form fatty acids in the stomach and prevent the gastric juice from getting at the food, while carbohydrates should be avoided, owing to their tendency to undergo acid fermentation, often causing dilatation. To ensure thorough admixture with gastric juice, the meat should be well chewed, or served as mince and purees, short-fibred meats being preferred. When Dilatation of the stomach by accumulation of gases becomes a distressing symptom, the principle of resting the organ must be carried out to the last degree; hence all food supplied should be easily digested and absorbed, even pre- digested, and should consist chiefly of animal food, finely divided, to admit of rapid action. The intervals between meals in such cases will lengthen out to eight or nine hours, so that the food supplied must be fairly concentrated. As above, carbohydrates should be cut down to a minimum, flatulent vegetables like cabbage being especially shunned. Suitable animal diet will be afforded by chicken, white-fish and game, and eggs lightly boiled, besides milk as before, and in all cases a drink of warm alkaline water will not only wash away a great deal of the ropy mucus which clogs the gastric glands, but will encourage the .glands themselves to increased secre- tion. The following is given as a model diet for dilatation:— Small tea-cupful of hot water. Breakfast: 2 poached eggs, or small grilled sole with lemon-juice; 1 oz. thin toast; 2 to 4 ozs. beverage, water or hot milk and water. Small tea-cupful of hot water. Luncheon: 4 ozs. boiled rice, tapioca, or sago, with a little fruit jelly, or macaroni with a little grated cheese. Milk may be used in preparing these. 4 ozs. of water, or weak brandy and water. Hot water as before. Dinner: Loin of mutton chop, or slice of the lean of roast or boiled mutton or chicken; or not more than 3 ozs. of roast beef; 1 oz. puree of potatoes; 1 oz. dry toast; 4 ozs. of water as above. \ tumblerful of Vichy water. A cup of milk and Vichy water or cold beef-tea during the night, if necessary. 7.30 a.m. 8 „' 1.30 p.m. 9, 7.30 „ 8 „ 11 „