AERATED AND MINERAL WATERS. 243 and therefore, as Sam Weller says, "taste of warm fiat-irons". They are recognized hy their astringent inky taste, and the rusty deposit of iron oxide which they leave on evaporating. Of carbonated chalybeate waters, containing iron carbonate dissolved in carbonic acid, the springs at Tunbridge Wells are the type. The chief use of ferruginous waters is to increase the richness of the blood, especially in cases of anaemia or debility, when the haemoglobin of the blood is poor in iron. On entering the stomach iron compounds are converted into chlorides by the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, so that in a weak stomach the iron uses up the gastric acid and thus tends to hinder digestion. Even in healthy people this may occur, and so it is well to take ferruginous water or iron medi- cines of any kind after meals, or a few doses of hydrochloric acid, B.-P. strength, may be added to the drinking water. 7. Sulphurous waters are the last class of mineral waters calling for notice here, and their sulphur is in the form either of sulphuretted hydrogen gas or metallic sulphides, or both. This division includes the well-known British spas of Harro- gate, Moffat, and Stratbpeffer, and on the Continent, Spa, St. Moritz, Bagneres de Luchon, Aix-la-Chapelle, Aix-les-Bains, and others. Like sulphur itself, these waters are mainly used for skin diseases, and may be taken internally or as baths. They are also useful as purgatives for the lower bowel, and to relieve congestion of the liver. Since mineral waters are recommend only for chronic dis- orders, it is useless to expect a disease of years to be cured in as many days,—the general course of treatment ranges from one to two months, best in summer. These waters are best taken in the morning before breakfast; the early rising is itself part of the cure, since the disorders relieved are most commonly those due to sedentary lives. Bathing is even more remedial than drinking, not only on account of the greater exercise involved, but from the greater absorptive surface. Of course it is understood that persons undergoing a " cure " are invalids, and must regulate their diet by that standard, and not " Compound for sins they are inclined to, By damning those they have no mind to ". SUMMARY. 1. Mineral waters contain in solution gases and solids which give them a peculiar appearance, taste, smell, or physiological effect. 2. Soda-water is water supersaturated witli carbonic acid gas.