FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 190 nearly l£ lbs. grapes, 2 lbs. strawberries, fully 2£ lbs. apples, or 4 lbs. pears. With respect to their carbohydrates fruits show more favourably, especially the grape, tig, and date, which are rich in sugar; thus 1 lb. starch = 5£ lbs. potatoes = 54 grapes = 6-7 cherries or apples = 10'8 currants = 12-3 straw- berries. They are, however, chiefly valued for the water in them, and the vegetable acids, free or in combination, upon which depend their valuable properties as blood-purifiers. Those acids are chiefly malic acid, characteristic of apples; tartaric, of grapes; and citric, found in lemons, oranges, and kindred fruits; and they are generally combined with potash or soda, so as to form acid salts. The ash of fruits is rich in potash salts, and contains besides those of lime, magnesia and iron; apples, and more especially strawberries, have also much soda. The agreeable aroma of the strawberry and other fruits is due to the presence in them of essential oils and ethers. They all contain pectin or vegetable jelly, cellulose, and the insoluble substance pedose, which by the action of a ferment in the plant itself is converted in the process of ripening into pectin, which thus forms the main constituent of fruit jellies. According to Fresenius, the flavour of fruits depends (1) on the ratio in which the acid stands to sugar, gum, and other carbohydrates; (2) on the presence and delicacy of the aroma, due to essential oils;. (3) on the proportion between soluble and insoluble matters and water—a peach, for example, almost melts in the mouth, whereas the bilberry is rich in insoluble materials; (4) on cultivation, which aims at increasing the proportion of sugar; (5) on favourable seasons, soil, &c. As the table shows, berries are more acid than stone fruits, and they contain relatively small quantities of gum and pectin. Fruits are best eaten at breakfast or between meals—a good apple the first thing in the morning and the last thing at night is a standard specific for indigestion—after a heavy dinner is the worst possible time. Since the softer fruits decompose readily they should be eaten as fresh as possible. When out of season they may be taken as preserves or in the dry state, notably raisins, dates, and figs; but the expansion alike of commerce and the public taste afford now a perennial round of fruits to the consumer. Fruits are preserved in various ways, most commonly by drying or by making them into jam just before they are fully ripe In connection with jam- and tart-making, the remarks in a previous lesson on the inversion of sugar by vegetable acids