TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, ETC. 217 laginous matters, extractive and chrysophanic acid, are de- stroyed by roasting. It has a distinct febrifuge action, and a solution of 1 in 10 of water boiled down to 9 is given m the cold period of a rigor in paroxysmal fevers such as ague. Mo- hammedan writers recommend it for coughs, especially whoop- ing-cough, and in Brazil it is used in dropsy and liver complaints as°a tonic and diuretic, its action in the latter respect securing for it the name sometimes given by children to the dandelion. There are in the British market several coffee substitutes, such as "French" coffee, Date coffee, &c, the names of which are very misleading. Under the Food and Drugs Act a packet labelled "Coffe&" must consist of pure coffee, but whenever the word "coffee" is qualified by some other Avord, such as "prepared", "French", &c, a mere fraction of coffee may be present without infringing the law. Thus French coffee has often three-quarters of its weight of date stones, acorns, or even roasted beans, added to chicory; and a "prepared" coffee may largely consist of starch and brown sugar. It is greatly to be desired that mixtures should have stamped on the packet the percentage of coffee in them, if the name coffee is to be used at all, for with best coffee at Is. 8d, the pound, and chicory at 5d., it is easy to see that a person who likes his coffee with a dash of chicory may be paying a coffee price for a chicory article. The most common adulterant is Chicory, and, as already mentioned, many people prefer coffee with a chicory flavour. It differs from coffee chiefly in having neither caffeine, tannin, nor volatile oil; it is much richer in sugar, having from 10 to 18 per cent, whereas good coffee has never more than 1 per cent; and it is further darker in colour and much heavier. The difference of weight may be used to detect adulteration; pure coffee floats on water or sinks slowly, chicory sinks rapidly. Since chicory is the root of the chicory plant roasted and ground, its microscopic appearances are such as characterize roots, showing vascular bundles, spiral vessels, and the like. "Dandelion" coffee is prepared by roasting dandelion roots; like chicory it is used to adulterate coffee, and as a household medicine. Cocoa is classed with tea and coffee in virtue of its peculiar alkaloid theobromine, "food for the gods". It is prepared from the seeds of the Theobroma cacao, deprived of their outer pulp and roasted, in which process, as in the coffee-bean, the starch of the seed is changed into dextrin. The fresh acid has an oily and rather bitter taste, but on being "sweated" or