116 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. grapes, and furnishing sebum, a natural hair-oil. In new-born infants this oily covering is very pronounced, and consists of epidermic scales with nearly half its weight of fat, chiefly palmitin and olein. When the sebaceous glands get choked, a sebaceous tumour or wen is often the result. The wax glands of the external ear are modified sweat glands. Perspiration or Sweat is the chief form of loss of substance by the skin. It is always flowing, though rarely observed except in hot weather or after violent exercise, and the daily loss is about 2 lbs., ^ of the body-weight, or half as much again as the loss by the lungs. Like most fluids of the body it is alkaline, though in rheumatism it becomes acid. There is only 1*2 per cent of solid matter in it, and of the solids the chief is urea ("1 per cent). The secretion of sweat is intimately associated with the blood-supply, being influenced by any caiise which sends an increased amount of blood to the skin. Thus, increase of temperature, increase of general blood-pressure, watery blood, diaphoretic drugs, might all conduce to sweating, and when one remembers the connection between the skin, lungs, and kidneys, it is at once seen that injury or disease of these last organs will to a certain extent be compensated by increased activity in the skin. The bearing of this upon cleanliness is obvious; the skin should be washed all over with soap and warm water to remove its oily covering, and then rubbed well down with a hard towel to remove scurf, &c, and stimulate the blood-vessels and glands. It is in virtue of its blood-supply that the skin exercises its chief function, regulation of the bodily temperature. When the bodily temperature rises above the limit of safety there is an automatic reflex action through the vaso-motor centre in the brain, resulting in relaxation of the surface blood-vessels, flush- ing of the skin, and a copious excretion of sweat. This not merely reduces the blood-pressure, but by evaporation from the surface cools down the body generally, and over and above, there is a great loss of heat by direct radiation from the surface. In this connection it may be well to submit a balance- sheet of the body with respect to heat. The amount of heat in the body, animal heat, is derived from oxidation of food-stuffs, especially of the carbon and hydrogen in them, and is measured in calories, 1 calorie being the amount of heat required to raise 1 gram of water 1 degree Centigrade. Our heat income may then be stated as under:—