67 INTESTINAL DIGESTION. soaps; 5. possibly another ferment producing an emulsion with fats or oils, i.e. reducing them to oil globules so exceedingly- small that they have no difficulty in passing through the intestinal wall into the interior of the villi, and so into the lymph channels. It will thus be seen that pancreatic juice is a much more potent digestive agent than gastric juice, inasmuch as it is able to deal with all classes of goods, whereas the latter acts solely upon proteids. Another difference consists in the fact that pancreatic juice acts in an alkaline medium, and is itself strongly alkaline, while pepsin acts in an acid medium. Hence, when chyme enters the bowels from the stomach, the pepsin is neutralized and its action arrested, just as salivary action is arrested in the stomach. The digestion of carbohydrates, which had been begun by the saliva, but had gone but a little way, is now continued by the ferment amylopsin, and the whole of the starchy materials of the food are now converted into maltose, sugar of malt. The action is further continued by the intestinal juice, and the maltose thus formed is converted into dextrose or grape-sugar, in which condition it finds its way into the blood. The latter juice also acts upon cane-sugar, inverting it, and producing dextrose and levulose, a mixture of glucoses. Proteids are acted upon by the trypsin of the pancreatic juice, and are converted into albumoses and peptones, but in this case part of the peptone produced is further transformed into other substances, such as leucin and tyrosin, which again in the large intestine undergo putrefaction, forming indol, skatol, and various gases. The intestinal juice contains a similar proteolytic ferment. Both pepsin and trypsin are now prepared from animals, and are extensively used for peptonizing foods to aid the feeble of digestion; for it is clear that if the proteid matter of food is peptonized a stage is saved in digestion just as in feeding with malt or sugar instead of starch. Since trypsin acts in an alkaline medium a little baking-soda is generally added along with pancreatic extract, the mixture is kept at blood heat for about two hours, then boiled for a few minutes to arrest any further action of the ferment. Foods peptonized in this way are more palatable than those prepared by pepsin, as the latter imparts a bitter taste and an unpleasant smell. Pancreatic extract is now sold either as peptonizing powders or in the liquid form, " Liquor Pancreaticus ". Since trypsin