43 SALTS. it is not to bo supposed that it exists in bono as lime; on the contrary, the calcium of the lime found is combined with the organic matter of the bone, but in the analysis appears as ash by ignition and consequent oxidation. So the phosphoric acid and phosphates do not occur as such in the body; they are the products of the oxidation of phosphorus, which in the body is found in proteid matter. In a similar way the sulphur of proteid matter appears in the analysis as sulphuric acid. From these figures it will be seen that the most important mineral substances in the body are soda, potash, lime, and phosphoric acid. When bones are burned in a closed vessel they are of course carbonized, being converted into animal charcoal; but if burned in an open fire the carbonaceous mate- rials are all burned away, leaving bone-ash, which is, roughly speaking, a phosphate of lime. It is this very substance which, on further treatment, yields the " superphosphate" of the farmer, a valuable wheat manure. Wheaten flour contains four per cent of salts, chiefly phosphates of lime and magnesia, and the English " wheat belt" follows the line of phosphatic rocks. Phosphate of lime is the most abundant substance in the ash of the body, as it forms more than one-half of our bones. It is derived from food in the form of carbonate and bicarbonate of lime, which by chemical exchange becomes converted within the body into phosphate. The muscles as well as the bones are rich in phosphates, this time of potash and soda, and as the muscles and bones together make up three-cpiarters of the body, the importance of these substances will at once be perceived. Phosphorus is popularly associated with the brain and ner- vous system. Part of the phosphorus in these organs occurs in the curious nitrogenous fat called lecithin, found also in yolk of egg. The table further shows that phosphoric waste is ex- pelled from the body by the bowels rather than by the kidneys, in the proportion of fully 5:1. When phosphorus is burnt in aii', it is oxidized and forms phosphoric acid, the salts of which are phosphates; in the same way, lime is the oxidized product of calcium salts. To give a person phosphates or lime with the idea of supplying him with a fresh stock of energy, is to give him materials already fully oxidized, and this has been aptly compared to feeding a fire with ashes. There are, however, other compounds of phosphorus, &c, not fully oxidized, such as phosphites, and especially hypophosphile.% and it is these last which enter into many "chemical foods".