FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 194 Apricots belong to the plum tribe, and there are over twenty varieties known, the finest being the Moorpark and Breda. This fruit docs not keep well, and is therefore eaten fresh or used as preserves. Some varieties resemble sweet almonds in having a sweet stone. Of all common fruits the Peach contains the least amount of sugar, T57 per cent, and is therefore specially useful for diabetic and gouty people. When the stone has been removed, the rest consists almost entirely of juice, since the solids amount to only 1 or 2 per cent. Peaches are esteemed for their juicy tender flesh, and their strong but delicate aroma; like most fruits they have a laxative action. The Nectarine is simply a variety of the peach, distinguished from it by its smooth skin, whereas the peach is velvety to the touch. Peach brandy is often made in the United States from inferior peaches. The Almond is the type of the botanical class to which peaches belong. There are two kinds, bitter and sweet, the latter apparently obtained by cultivation. Sweet almonds have a very agreeable taste, and are fairly nutritious, being used in desserts and confectionery. Bitter almonds contain amygdalin, from which is obtained essential oil of almonds by a kind of fermentation, and since this contains a little prussic acid it has to be refined before use. Essential oil of almonds is used for flavouring and in making toilet soaps, as well as medicinally. When almonds are bruised they yield nearly half their own weight of a fixed oil, often given to new-born infants like castor-oil. Cherries in this country are eaten fresh, stewed in tarts, or preserved; but in France and Germany they form a staple article of food among the charcoal-burners and wood-cutters, entering largely into soups. Cherry brandy is made by mixing brandy with cherry juice; Kirschwasser is a German liqueur made from cherries. Ripe wild cherries are freed of their stalks and bruised without breaking the stones. They are then allowed to ferment, and the kernels are broken and thrown in; the whole is now distilled, and kirschwasser is the result. Maraschino is prepared in like fashion from a fine delicately-flavoured variety; more care is taken to preserve the flavour, and only the finest sugar is used to sweeten it. Dates are the fruit of the date-palm, which flourishes all over the north of Africa, and supplies food to millions of people from Morocco to Persia. They rank with grapes as a