FRUITS. 199 discovery of America it was introduced there, and it now forms a staple food in all tropical countries. It is reported to yield a greater amount of food-stuff to the acre than any other plant, in this respect far excelling the potato in the ratio of 44 to 1, or wheat as 133 to 1, and it has the additional merit of needing little or no attention. Three dozen plantains are calculated to furnish as much nutriment as a week's supply of wheaten bread, chiefly in the form of starch and sugar. The smaller form of banana is generally eaten raw, or the pulp is pressed into cakes, which thus form saccharine loaves. Plantains are boiled, roasted, or baked in their skins like potatoes, or sliced and fried in butter and powdered with sugar, or the unripe fruit may be dried and ground into meal. It is used as a beverage like coffee, and may be fermented into wine; and when to these varied uses of the fruit there are added those of the other parts of the tree, it is not easy to name another vegetable which contributes so largely to human wants and comforts. The Pine-apple is an example of a fruit which has been greatly improved by cultivation, the ordinary pine-apple being coarse and fibrous with little sweetness or flavour, whereas hot-house pines are among the most delicate and luscious of fruits. The Bread-fruit Tree, a native of the South Sea Islands, belongs to the same family as the fig. The fruit is large, and has an outer rind, an inner core, and a white pulp, the last being the edible portion. It is cut to pieces, roasted, and eaten, and resembles new bread though tart, the flavour being compared to the crumb of white bread with a dash of Jerusalem artichoke. If kept long it becomes " high " and unpleasant. The only Nuts that call for special notice are the chestnut, hazel-nut, walnut, and cocoa-nut. In Italy the Chestnut forms a valuable adjunct to the food-supply, and besides eating the nut fresh, there are three ways of preparing it—"ballotti" (boiled), "arrostite" (roasted), and "tegliate". In this last the nuts are shelled, boiled with caraway seeds for flavouring, so that the true chestnut flavour is wanting, and then mixed with maize-meal to make polenta. Another delicacy in the Apennines is necci, flat cakes made of chestnut-flour and water, without salt, owing no doubt to the tax on that article, and baked between hot flat stones with chestnut leaves between the cakes. The ripe Walnut in this country is used in dessert, while the unripe fruit is pickled or made into walnut ketchup. In France, walnuts, just before they are ripe, are much used as a salad