WINES. 231 It may be summarized as follows, apart from alcohol and its by-products:—A diminution of mucilaginous and sugary mat- ters; a diminution of those substances insoluble in water, but soluble in must, such as sulphate and phosphate of lime; and a diminution also of cream of tartar, magnesium tartrate, and potassium sulphate, which are less soluble in alcohol than m water. When wine is kept in cask or in bottle for a long time important changes take place. The tannin and colouring matter are generally deposited, leaving the liquor tawny and comparatively lighter in colour. The sugar also diminishes, and in very old wines all the cane-sugar becomes invested by the action of the fruit acids, rendering the wine less sweet. Glycerine and the cenanthic ethers increase, the latter at the expense of the alcohol and the tartaric acid, so that the wine may be only three-fourths as acid as when new. Wine that has been long in bottle has sometimes a peculiar flavour, and is said to be "corked"; the cause of this is a mould which grows on the outside of the cork but penetrates to the inner surface. Most of the cheap wines imported into this country are artificial, being made at Hamburg, Cette, &c, from cider or ordinary potato and grain spirit, flavoured with cenanthic ether, and coloured by aniline dyes or by vegetable extracts like madder, beet-root, and logwood. As an example the following is a Russian recipe for making " port":—Cider, 3000; kino, 8; old hock with cider, 3000; brandy, 1000; nitric ether alcoholized, 8. For the detection of these impurities elaborate schemes are given in analytical works. The so-called "British wines", ginger, currant wine, &c, as sold in the shops, are not wines at all, but simply forms of grog coloured to suit, and flavoured with different essences generally having not the remotest connection with the fruits they simulate. Of course a real wine may be made, and often is made, by fermentation as in the case of the grape, but these wines are generally made only for household use. One must place in quite a different category the real British wines, viz. cider, perry, and mead. The last is honey wine, made from honey and water by fermentation in the usual way. It is rather a liqueur than a wine, being deficient in acids, ethers, and salts, and therefore merits the condemnation of Pliny, who said it had all the bad qualities of wine and none of the good ones. It is a thinnish liquid, very rich in sugar, and effervescent.