269 METHODS OF COOK I NO. o-oose, rather more for pork and veal, and much less for poultry. Owing to expulsion of water the meat loses from 20 to 35 per cent of its weight. Broiling or Grilling, as well as Brandering, is really roasting on a small scale over instead of in front of a radiant surface. The object aimed at is the same, the formation of a surface skin of coagulated albumen, and the retention within this of all the juices of the meat. To avoid breaking this coagulated layer, steak-tongs should be used instead of forks in turning the meat, while a fluted grill is advisable to retain fat, unless the meat is cooked by brandering in a double-hinged grill. Broiling is admirably suited for quickly roasting small articles, such as° steaks, chops, bits of fowl, kidneys, fish, and the like, and besides the radiant heat of the fire, the hot vapours rising from it, consisting of steam and carbonic acid gas, assist in the process! According to Sir Henry Thompson the sauce " par excellence " for broiled meats is mushroom ketchup, and the garnish, cool lettuce, water-cress, or endive. In the gas-cookers, so much used in towns, the processes of roasting and broiling are slightly modified, and with superior results. The oven, best whitewashed with lime, both for clean- liness and economy of heat, and jacketed with felt or other non-conductor, is heated from within by gas jets on the Bun- sen principle, thus securing a smokeless flame, so that meat roasted or baked in it is really subjected, as in grilling, to a bath of hot gases arising from the combustion as well as to the heat radiated from the walls of the oven. In the gas-grill the radiant surface is usually a cast-iron grating which throws the heat down, the article to be cooked being placed below. If a kettle of water be placed above, not only will the waste heat be utilized, but the amount reflected is increased. Since the meat is placed below the grill in its-.own dripping-pan, it is subjected to a bath of oil vapour as well as to the radiant heat. Owing to the better control of the heat, steaks, &c, cooked by gas are generally superior to those done over or before the fire. In Baking, as in roasting, the agent is radiant heat, but under the old system of baking in a close oven the result was very different, the meat being richer and therefore more indi- gestible, while it had a decidedly different flavour. This was owing to the circumstance that the operation was conducted at far too high a temperature after the preliminary "case- hardening ", and the oil-laden vapours coming from the dish were caught on the sides of the oven and partially burned,