FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 220 Argentine Republic, and S. Brazil. The beverage is prepared from the leaves, with the young shoots and branches, by a double roasting which develops a peculiar aromatic oil. The leaves, &c, are then powdered, pressed, and sun-dried, infused like tea, and the infusion sucked through straws. Holly tea contains about \ per cent of theine, and a peculiar kind of tannin which does not tan hides. In its action it resembles tea and coffee, but is slightly narcotic in excess. It is extremely refreshing and restorative, especially after great fatigue; has a slight but pleasant bitter taste, and thus acts as a tonic stimu- lant, and exercises a beneficial action on the internal organs generally. Another kind of holly is used in Virginia in the same way as mate. Of recent years the public have become familiar with two substances which belong to this class, kola and coca. The former is made from Kola nuts, and is greatly lauded for its fatigue-resisting power, especially if chewed raw or taken freshly ground. It contains theine, and acts as a nervous stimulant. The special properties of kola are due to its colour- ing matter, kola red or kolanin; it acts as an antidote to alcohol-poisoning, and in virtue of the mucilaginous matter it contains it clarifies beer, spirits, and impure water. Kola paste and cocoa form a chocolate ten times more nutritious than Caraccas chocolate, and when mixed with a low-class cocoa in the proportion of 1:3 it greatly improves the latter in strength and flavour. In nitrogenous substances kola is superior to tea, coffee, and cocoa, containing five times as much theine as tea. Its flavour is sweet at first, then astrin- gent, finally bitter, but the bitterness nearly disappears in the dried nut, reappearing on soaking in water. Kola is very pleasant in the form of chocolate, flavoured with sugar and vanilla. Similar to kola in its power of taking away the feeling of fatigue is Coca, obtained from the leaves of a Peruvian plant. It acts best when the leaves are chewed, and its value as a restorative has been demonstrated by experiments made in the German army. From the leaves is obtained its active princ iple cocaine, so much used now as a local anaesthetic in eye and tooth operations. SUMMARY. 1. Tea, coffee, cocoa, and similar beverages owe their stimulating properties to an alkaloid, theine or caffeine, and theobromine.