ALCOHOLIC DRINKS. 223 grain, such as barley, is moistened and gently warmed to encourage germination, a process which develops the full activity of diastase, the natural malt extract of the grain, and this acting on the starch converts it into maltose or sugar of malt. When sprouting has begun, the heat is increased to arrest further growth, and the grain, now called Malt, is found to be darker in colour and much sweeter. This is now put into the mash-tub and thoroughly extracted with water, which dissolves or washes out all sugary or starchy matters, and this is fer- mented with yeast, as in brewing. At this point the distillery and the brewery part company. In distillation the "mash" is heated in a closed copper still at the proper temperature, and the volatile matters are condensed as they come over, and collected in the following order :—"Foreshot", methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol, water, higher alcohols. The product is generally re-distilled to get rid of lower and higher alcohols, and to leave if possible only spirits of wine and water. As thus prepared, a spirit, say whisky, is colourless, but custom demands various conventional shades of yellow and brown, and these are obtained by the addition of caramel. In brewing, on the other hand, the process is completed by the action of various organized ferments, wine and beer yeast. The yeast fungus lives upon sugar, converting ordinary sugar and maltose into glucose or fermentable sugar, and then decomposing part of the latter into alcohol, giving off carbonic acid gas in the process, and forming at the same time small quantities of glycerine (3 per cent) and succinic acid as bye- products. The process may be indicated by a chemical equa- tion thus:— CuHaOn + H20 = C„ H,2 Oa + 06 Hu 06 maltose and water form "invert-sugar", i.e. dextrose and levulose. C6Hu06 = 2C2H60 + 2CO, glucose forms alcohol and carbonic acid gas. Only a part of the sugar originally present in the solution is converted into alcohol, since the yeast plant is killed when the proportion of alcohol rises above a certain limit; thus wine yeast is unable to live in 14 per cent of alcohol, so that if wine shows 20 per cent of alcohol—and wines for the British market nearly all do so—the extra spirit has been added. This behaviour of yeast is merely an extreme case of the action of putrefactive germs, and in all cases of putrefaction alcohol is produced in minute quantities from animal matter, as well as by the living cells of the body.