241 AERATED AND MINERAL WATERS. cases of stomach ulcer and gastric disorders generally. When it is remembered that a dozen 5-pint charges can be got for 2s. 3d., i.e. 2\d. for 5 pints, and that the ordinary J-pint bottle costs Id. or 2d., it will at once be seen that a gazogene may easily save its own cost in a single hot season, while the owner may have his mind easy on the score of lead-poisoning and impure water which might, though they rarely do, affect the manufactured article. Since all gases are less soluble in heated than in cold liquids, it is hot advisable to expose a gazogene to the full blaze of a summer sun, lest the increased pressure within should burst the globes. Carbonic acid under pressure is fatal to germ life, so that ai ration may really be the means of utilizing a suspicious water, especially in hot weather, when organic pollution be- comes more marked, for recent researches on the subject of filtration have shown that the evil effects of impure water are due, not so much to matters dissolved in it, as to living microbes introduced by it and living upon the organic matter it contains. Besides supplying a pleasant sparkling liquid, slightly acid, and therefore cooling and refreshing, carbonic acid gas in this form has a sedative effect upon the nerves of the stomach, and either in the shape of aerated waters or of effervescing wines such as champagne and cider, is often employed in cases of sickness with stomach irritation. Vichy water is specially re- commended in gastric catarrh and chronic indigestion. Mineral Waters.—Strictly speaking, the former belong to this class, but since all waters except distilled water contain dissolved matters of some kind or other, the term mineral water is usually restricted to spring waters Avhich have a peculiar taste or smell, or exercise special effects upon the body. They have been classed under the following seven divisions:— 1. Alkaline waters are represented on the one side by natural soda waters like those of Vichy, and on the other by those of Selters, Ems, and Salzbrun, which, in addition to carbonate of soda, contain salt, and are thus saltish in taste. These are largely prescribed for catarrh of the stomach and intestine derangement of the liver, leading to constipation and biliary disorders, and in gouty or rheumatic conditions. Still more powerful are the alkaline saline waters containing sulphate of soda (Glauber's salts), as well as the carbonate, and represented by such well-known springs as those of Carlsbad, Marienbad, and Hunyadi Janos. Sulphate of soda is a fairly strong pur- (M173) Q