FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 140 shell + 22-8 grains albumen and fat + 67-2 grains water. As a food they are very deficient in carbohydrates, but richly nitro- genous, and more of their nitrogenous constituents are absorbed than of their fats. White of egg consists of egg-albumen dissolved in water and enclosed in a delicate membrane. It contains much less fat than the yolk, and is more fluid; the salts in it are chiefly chlorides. It is said that the practice of eating eggs raw is attended with the appearance of albumen in the urine, but this is denied, and in any case the albumen found in urine is not egg- albumen but serum-albumen. A slight degree of cooking com- pletely destroys any such tendency where it exists. Egg-albumm coagulates at the comparatively low temperature of 73째 C, the same as the albumen of meat, while vitellin or yolk-albumen coagulates at 75째 C. At first sight this would seem to be con- tradicted by the results usually obtained in cooking, but a little thought will show that the ordinary practice of boiling eggs is a mistake. The effect of subjecting eggs to the heat of boiling water is much the same as in roasting meat, but without the same justification, since the egg is already provided with a shell; the outer albumen is hardened and so acts as a protective casing to the inner portion or yolk. If, instead, the tempera- ture were maintained at say 73째 C, the heat would penetrate the whole egg, which would be found in that delicious curdy condition which marks the perfection of egg cooking. Eggs, therefore, are best cooked when put into cold water and brought to the boil, or, better, kept at 75째 long enough to cook their albumen to the centre. The Yolk differs from the white in several important aspects, and, as might be expected from its peculiar functions, is very complex in composition. It is rich in fat, chiefly olem and palmitin, but contains also cholesterin and yellow pigment, besides the peculiar nitrogenous fat, lecithin, found also in nervous tissue. It is from the phosphorus in yolk-albumen that there is derived glycero-phosphoric acid, which helps to dissolve the shell and form a phosphate of lime. The yolk also contains extractives, grape-sugar, and salts, chiefly phosphates and iron compounds. The presence of sulphur is indicated by the formation of sulphuretted hydrogen when eggs decay, and so to avoid the formation of sulphides, egg-spoons are either gilt or made of non-metallic materials. On account of the phosphorus, yolks of egg are forbidden to gouty patients; but they prove valuable in cases of anaemia, owing to the compara-