115 THE SKIN. it is the part separated in a blister. It grows from below upwards, and is continually being shed in the form of minute scales, best noticed in the scalp as "scurf ", so that in this way- there is a considerable loss of nitrogenous matter. The upper layers are horny in structure, and similar in composition to nails and hairs, which are indeed developments of it. In its lower layers (b), the epidermis contains colouring matters which impart the various shades of skin to the different races of men. The red tint of the skin is due to the blood of the true skin below. The epidermis serves to protect the delicate structures below, as may be evidenced by the intense pain felt when* a blister is broken, and the raw surface exposed even to the air. It also exer- cises a certain amount of pressure on the capillaries, and thus a raw surface is always moist, and in this way it prevents adjacent parts from growing together, as raw surfaces tend to do. The epidermis of the fingers espe- cially is thrown into ridges (fig. 31, b), and these are caused by rows of little projections called papilla on the sur- face of the true skin below. They are about jjiQ inch high, and are plenti- fully supplied with blood-vessels and nerves ending in touch-corpuscles; upon the number of these last depends the sensitiveness of the skin as an organ of touch. The mass of the true skin is ordinary connective and elastic fibres; it is plentifully suppUed with blood, and below it lies a more open sub- cutaneous tissue with fat cells (fig. 31, d). The surface of the ridges on the fingers may be observed to be dotted at short intervals. These little pits are the openings of sweat glands, tubes originating in the epidermis but pene- trating the true skin, and generally terminating by coils in the fatty tissue below (fig. 31, c). Although these sweat glands are very small, their numbers make up for this. Krause estimated their number at 2* millions, giving 1000 square metres of secreting surface, and it has been calculated that if uncoiled and placed end to end they would extend to over 20 miles! Associated with the hairs, and opening into the hair sheath, are the oil glands, distinct in structure, resembling a bunch of Fig. 31.—The Structure of the Skin.