179 ROOTS AND TUBERS. made in England and Ireland into a wine not unlike Malmsey; in the north of Ireland the root is also fermented into a kind of beer with yeast and hops. Turnips are decidedly inferior to carrots in nutritive power, containing, as it does, from 90 to 96 per cent of water, and yet it is largely used for cattle-feeding. It contains only 1 per cent of nitrogenous matter, and may have as much as 6 per cent of carbohydrates, though the most of this is cellulose, especially in old plants. The young leaves of the turnip, turnip-tops, are used as greens; the best for this purpose being those of young Swedes. Turnips used for feeding cows communicate their taste to the milk. To remove this all that is necessary is to stand the milk before a fire till the temperature rises to 65° F. before churning. _ Kohl Rabi, properly Kohl-Rube, Kale-turnip, is used like turnips rather than like cabbage, although the stalks also are eaten. It is solid, and more nutritious than any turnip of the same size. Beet-root contains 87 per cent of water; 9 of carbohydrates, chiefly sugar; l\ of proteids; and 1 of salts. It is grown for the sake of its sugar, though the root itself is sliced and pickled or used in salads. In lifting and cleaning the root care must be taken not to break the surface, otherwise it " bleeds ". White beet is grown for the sake of its leaves, which are used like spinach, and as a substitute for the latter at the beginning of spring. Mangold-wurzel, so much used for feeding cattle, is a coarse beet-root. Radishes, when young, are used in salads for the sake of their pungent and antiscorbutic properties. They have a stimulating effect upon the urinary organs, and act as demul- cents, being often given to remove excess of mucus from the stomach and bladder. Salsafy or Salsify is one of the Goat's-beard family, and is like the parsnip in composition. It is used like carrots, and has an asparagus flavour. The roots of the purple goat's-beard are also used in the same way. SUMMARY. 1. Vegetable roots are used either for their antiscorbutic proper- ties or for the starch obtained from them. 2. They are all exceedingly poor in nitrogenous and fatty sub-