187 FUNGI. The chief edible fungi are the common Mushroom, generally use.I for making ketchup; the St. George's Agaric or White- cap, similar but much inferior; the Fairy-ring mushroom, Scotch bonnets or Champignon, a smaller plant, with a strong agreeable odour, and much used in ketchup and sauces; and several other species of mushroom. The common Morel is rare in Britain, though much used in Germany, and makes excel- lent ketchup. Truffle is a subterranean fungus grown in the south of Europe, chiefly in the chestnut forests of France and Italy, where it is rooted out by dogs trained for the purpose. The black truffle is the most highly valued for flavour and smell, and it enters into many dishes. The white truffle is less aromatic, but is used in the same way. Both forms are highly indigestible. Iceland-moss is a lichen found in arctic and subarctic dis- tricts, and is valued both as a food and a medicine. In Iceland and Norway it is gathered during the summer months for food, and is even exported. It contains a bitter acid, cetraric acid, which is removed by steeping in water, then the moss is pounded and made into bread, or else boiled with milk like a farinaceous food. Iceland-moss possesses 80 per cent of starch of the kind called Lichenin or lichen starch, and it has been recommended to diabetic patients as a substitute for ordinary bread; inulin biscuits have been suggested for the same pur- pose. Irish or Carrageen Moss is not a moss at all, but a sea-weed, Chondrus crispus, which is found along our own shores. After being gathered it is dried for export, and thus prepared has the following composition:— Vegetable jelly 79-1 per cent. Mucin, 9-5 „ Resins, ... ... ... ... ... 0"7 „ Ash, 2-0 Fibre and water, ... ... ... ... 8*7 ,, A very pleasant drink is obtained by adding cold water in the proportion of half an ounce of carrageen to three pints of water, then boiling and straining. It may be flavoured by spices if desired. When more carrageen is used the result is a mucilage, yielding a jelly on boiling, and this mucilage may be added to milk for infants just like barley-water, or it may be boiled with milk so as to form a " shape" on cooling, like blanc-mange. It is nutritious, easy of digestion, and a plea-