73 ABSORPTION. form in the stomach, and, as has been seen, starchy foods are converted into dextrose, a soluble sugar, leaving only the fats to be considered. These are disposed of in two ways, being partly emulsified, partly made into soluble soaps. In lesson 6 it was pointed out that fat consists of fatty acids and glycerin, and that the changes occuring in saponification might be represented as displacement, the soda or potash taking the place of the glycerin, thus:— ( Fatty Acid Fatty Acid ) Fat-} + and Soda = + > = Soap and Glycerin. ( Glycerin ■ Soda ) The soda required for this process is supplied by the bile, so that saponification occurs all through the small intestine, the soluble soaps thus formed finding their way through the bowel wall in the same fashion as water, sugar, peptone, &c. The greater part of the fats is not saponified, however, but emulsified, by the emulsive ferment in the pancreatic juice, aided by the bile. A very good example of an emulsion is supplied by milk, which, when examined under the micro- scope, is seen to consist of very minute globules of oil swim- ming in a clear fluid. These globules are exceedingly small, from -gjj^ojy to rJ-Q0 o inch in diameter, but even the finest of them is large compared with the globules found in the emul- sion of the intestine. It now remains to consider the physical forces concerned in the passage of these fluid and emulsified materials from the intestine into the blood, these being diffusion and filtration. When gas escapes at one corner of a room, the smell of the gas pervades the whole room, because coal-gas, though lighter than air, tends to diffuse rapidly through air instead of rising to the ceiling; and it is found that gases behave according to Graham's law, viz.: velocity of diffusion is inversely propor- tional to the square root of the density. Diffusion of gases will come before us again in connection with respiration. If alcohol be slowly poured upon water, in spite of the fact that it is lighter than water, it will gradually tend to diffuse downwards, and the liquids will mix at their line of junction. If the liquids be separated by a porous partition, diffusion will still take place through the partition; alcohol will pass to the water, and water to the alcohol, till the liquids on both sides of the partition have the same density. The digestive process