21 NITROGEN AND. ITS COMPOUNDS. food. Nitric, acid stains on cloth arc not restored by ammonia as was the case with other acids. Now add some sulphuric acid to iron filings; the iron dis- solves, there is given oil' a gas which turns out to be hydrogen and a greenish solution is left. On expelling water from this solution green crystals are obtained, consisting of another salt this time iron sulphate. If copper turnings had been used instead of iron, and nitric instead of sulphuric acid, another salt consisting of copper nitrate, would have been obtained. Now dip the blade of a knife into, say, copper-sulphate solution; after a minute or two the blade will be coated with copper. This is an example of the kind of chemical action known as displacement, and the experiment may be represented thus:— Copper + sulphuric acid ) form \ iron + sulphuric acid and iron ) ( ancl C0PPer- The iron and copper seem to have changed places, and a new salt has been formed, sulphate of iron, the iron having displaced the copper. Now take some crystals of tartaric acid and add them to a solution of baking-soda. Effervescence follows, and the escap- ing °-as is found by the lime-water test to be carbonic acid gas. Bakfng-soda is another salt, a carbonate of soda, and here again there is displacement, this time of one acid by another, thus:— Soda + carbonic acid ) . \ soda + tartaric acid and tartaric acid \ ( and carbonic acid. In this case a tartrate of soda is formed, and in baking with the foregoing mixture this substance is left in the bread, while the carbonic acid gas in escaping inflates the bread and makes it porous. If hydrochloric acid be used instead of tartaric acid, a similar displacement would ensue, the new salt this time being sodium chloride or common salt. Lactic acid, which is the acid in butter-milk, would in like fashion form lactate of soda, acetic acid or vinegar would form acetate of soda, and so on. Carbonates, such as washing-soda or baking- soda, are easily decomposed by other acids, giving off carbonic ac id gas, and it is in virtue of this property that they enter into the composition of so many baking-powders. A s another example of displacement, add some sulphuric acid to common salt. Dense white pungent fumes come off, which are the fumes of the hydrochloric acid displaced, and there is