6 BLACK IE AND SON'S SCIENCE CATALOGUE. SCIENCE TEXT-BOOKS. Advanced Series—Gontd. will lliul invaluable in the early stages of his study. The diagrams are very numerous, anil arc beautifully executed."—Educational News. " It is an admirable and scholarly manual, and as such is certain to make its own welcome in science classes as well as in the higher forms of schools. Illustra- tions and diagrams are freely inserted in the text, and serve to render its explana- tions clear."—The Speaker. " We have much pleasure in recommending it to students about to enter on advanced systematic work. . . . The illustrations are beautifully clear, and are worthy of special attention."—University Correspondent. "In short, this new introductory manual to systematic botany—which, by the way, is very well illustrated—seems to us to form an admirable text-book-"—The Lancet. Earth-Knowledge. A Text-Book of Physiography. By W. Jerome Harbison, f.g.s., and H. Bowland Wakefield. 388 pages, f'cap 8vo, cloth, 3s. Also in Two Parts: Part I., Is. 6d.; Part II., 2s. "There can be no doubt about the usefulness of the book ... it is excellent." —Nature. " The matter is at once so simply and so skilfully presented that the book will be found a useful introduction to science in general."—Glasgow Herald. "The Earth Knowledge of Messrs. Harrison and Wakefield is an honest and readable treatise on the science of physiography."—Knowledge. " Sure to do some practical good to teachers as well as learners."—Athenaeum. " This is an extremely valuable and interesting little book. It is the work ol practical teachers who are at the same time sound scientists. The geological portions of the book are eminently reliable and quite up to the most modern style of knowledge. We have tested the information by the most recent utter- ances of our savants, and as a result, can confidently recommend the work."— Practical Teacher. A Text-Book of Organic Chemistry. By A. Bernthsen, pii.,d. formerly Professor of Chemistry in the University of Heidelberg. Translated by George M'Gowan, Ph.D. New Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth, 7s. 6d. "This excellent treatise has been admirably translated, and a very useful addi- tion has been made to the English scientific student's library. As far as we have tested it is accurate, and it is certainly sensible in arrangement and lucid in style."—Lancet. [-See also page 2. DeSChanel'S Natural Philosophy. An Elementary Treatise based on the Traits de Physique of A. Privat Deschanel, by Pro- fessor J. D. Everett, m.a., d.o.l., f.r.s. 13th Edition. Medium 8vo, cloth, 18s.; also in Parts, limp cloth, 4s. 6d. each. [-See also page 1. Part I.—Mechanics, Hydrostatics, &c. I PART III.—Electricity and Magnetism. Part II.—Heat. | Part IV.—Sound and Light. "Probably the best book on experimental physics we possess."—Academy. "Systematically arranged, clearly written, and admirably illustrated, it forms a model work for a class in experimental physics."—Saturday Review. Elementary Text-Book of Physics. By Professor Everett, m.a., d.o.l., f.r.s. Seventh Edition. E'cap 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6-/. " After a careful examination we must pronounce this work unexceptionable, both in the matter and the manner of its teachings."—Journal of Science. "This book of 300 pages well fulfils the author's intention of providing an elementary text-book which may especially serve as an introduction. —Nature. "For the numerous class who wish to learn something of the main facts of nhysics, this work will be found eminently serviceable."—Athenaeum.