FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 208 given for flatulence. The seeds act as aromatic condiments, and are used for flavouring cordials, as well as in pastry and confectionery. Coriander seeds are also carminative, and are highly aromatic. They are used in liqueurs and pastry or sugared, while in the north of Europe they are mixed with bread. Vanilla is obtained from the pods of a parasitical orchid grown in Mexico and other sub-tropical countries. It is valued as a perfume, and the interior pulp is the most aromatic portion. It has a strong peculiar agreeable odour and a warm sweetish taste, and contains such an abundance of benzoic acid that the latter often effloresces in needle-shaped crystals. Vanilla is a gentle stimulant, and promotes digestion; in large doses it is a powerful aphrodisiac. The essence is used for flavouring choco- late and ices. Curry, either as powder or paste, is a mixture of several aromatics, and two recipes are appended to show its composi- tion :— No. 1. Turmeric powder, ... ... 6 oz. Coriander-seed powder, ... 8 „ Black pepper, 4 „ Fenugreek, ... ... ... 2 „ Ginger, ... 2 „ Cayenne, ... ... ... a >> Cinnamon seeds, ... ... ^ ,, No. 2. Turmeric, ... ... 5 oz. Coriander powder, ... 3 „ Black pepper, ... 1 ., Ginger, 1 „ Cayenne powder, ... 1 „ Scorched mustard, ... \ „ Mace, 1 drachm. Cinnamon, ... ... 1 „ Cardamoms, 2 drachms. Along with the foregoing may be classed certain aromatic herbs, used for flavouring in various ways. Parsley, one of the Umbelliferae, is nutritious and stimulating as well as flavouring, and it owes its properties to an essential oil. It contains a peculiar gelatinous substance, apiine, and is sometimes made into jelly for invalids. Sage is one of the Labiatse, and the leaves only are used for flavouring dishes or in sauces. From the dried leaves and young shoots sage-tea is made, a popular astringent and tonic, while the oil of sage is used externally in rhuematism. The whole plant has a'peculiar strong penetrating aromatic smell resembling camphor, and a bitterish aromatic, somewhat pun- gent taste. . , , Mint is cultivated in three varieties: spearmint, used iot mint-sauce; peppermint, and pennyroyal. Peppermint is a powerful diffusible stimulant, often used to mask the tash di