229 WINES. astringency; this is of course a defect, for, as has been seen in the case of tea, tannin has a retarding influence upon digestion. In old port the tannin may separate out, thus giving the wine a " tawny " colour. . When the wine yeast has converted a certain amount ot -nape-sugar into alcohol, its action is arrested, stoppage of fermentation occurring when the alcohol forms not more than 14 per cent of the liquid. -The average percentage of alcohol in natural wines is 7 or 8; but in order to preserve certain M ines of low alcoholic strength, as well as to satisfy the de- mands of the British palate, the wine is "fortified" by the addition of spirit, so as to fetch the strength up to 20 or even more. If all the sugar of the juice has been converted into alcohol, the wine is proportionately less sweet, and is said to be " dry " 'as opposed to " fruity ". Some of the Hungarian wines contain a very high percentage of sugar, as much as one-fifth, while the sweet wines of Greece, as well as some ancient wines, are almost syrups. Generally speaking, the more sugar the less acid, and, on standing, the sugar gradually disappears, being changed by the action of the free acid into invert-sugar. On long standing there are formed at the expense of alcohol various ethers, caproic and caprylic ether, and other odorous bodies, often called in the mass cenanthic ether, and it is these substances which give their peculiar flavour and bouquet to special wines, and the predominance of which gives the first place for delicacy to Hungarian wines. As is invariably the case when alcohol is formed by fermentation, carbonic acid is given off, and if a wine be bottled when this action is all over, the product is a "still" wine; if, on the other hand, the wine is bottled, like beer, before the fermentation is quite over, then the liquor becomes charged with carbonic acid gas, which effervesces on liberation, producing a "sparkling" wine. Spark- ling wines may also be made on the principle of aerated waters, by passing carbon dioxide into wine under pressure. A natural wine is comparatively poor in alcohol, and thus readily undergoes the acetic fermentation; but since the acetic bacillus cannot live in a highly alcoholic liquid, or in absence of air, all that is necessary to preserve those of a lighter kind is to exclude air, or add a germicide such as salicylic acid. The latter is the course generally adopted in unfermented wines, and to keep light fermented wines olive-oil is poured on the liquor in the cask so as effectually to exclude air. The natural salts of grape-juice consist chiefly of cream of