33 FATS. chemical action here is one of displacement, the base glycerin Inn ing been displaced by the base soda. In order to discover what else is in the oil, take some soap solution and add a little hydrochloric acid; another white deposit appears, which this time settles to the bottom. This is another case of dis- placement, the hydrochloric acid having displaced the acid of the soap, that is, of the fat from which the soap Avas made. These acids form a group known as the fatty acids, and the chief among them are stearic, oleic, and palmitic acids. Chemically speaking, therefore, a fat is a salt containing a fatty acid and a base. The acid may be any of the fatty acids, but the base is always glycerin. The changes in the above experiments may be represented thus:— ( Fatty Acid f Fatty Acid Fat=-^ + and Soda form Soap=^ + and Glycerine. ( Glycerine (. Soda / (Hydrochloric j latty Acid Hydrochloric /•„,.,„ Common_ ) Acid , Fatty SoapH a+* and Acid form Salt =) + ami Acid. ( Soda ( Soda By the action of superheated steam, and also by certain digestive juices, fats can be decomposed at once into fatty acid and glycerin. These changes are effected within the body by fat-splitting and soap-forming ferments contained in the diges- tive fluids of the intestine. Any natural fat such as butter is not a simple fat, but is composed of several fatty acids united with glycerin, being thus a mixture of fats. The common simple fats are stearin, olein, and palmitin, all found in animal, and the last two in vegetable foods. Stearin is the chief constituent of mutton fat and suet; its acid is stearic acid, and it might be called either stearate of glycerin or stearin glyceride; similarly, olein contains oleic acid, and palmitin found in palm-oil, palmitic acid. Olein is the chief constituent of olive-oil, and is not only itself liquid, but keeps the other fats in solution. Lard con- tains a great deal of olein, and thus is soft and buttery, while suet is rich in stearin and correspondingly firmer. In commercial soap-making the base chosen is either soda or potash, the latter forms soft soaps, the former hard soaps, the names in this case referring solely to consistence. Fats consist of carbon, 79 parts; hydrogen, 11; and oxygen, 10 per cent; and are thus non-nitrogenous. There is a re- markable nitrogenous fat called lecithin, found in nervous tissue and in yolk of egg, containing phosphorus as well as (M173) c