FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 34 nitrogen. Fats were formerly called hydrocarbons, oleaginous foods, and heat-givers; but the name hydrocarbon is properly restricted to substances like turpentine, benzine, camphor, &c, which consist of carbon and hydrogen only. They are mostly insoluble in water, though water is always associated with them; and the sputtering that occurs in frying is not due to the boiling of the fat, but solely to the escape of water, which boils at a much lower temperature than fat. When all the water has been expelled fat boils quietly until it reaches the point of decomposition, when it begins to smoke. Cooking by fat will be farther treated in the lesson on frying. There is one fat remarkable for being soluble in water; this is wool- fat, or lanolin, and it enters largely into the composition of toilet soaps, such as vinolia and maioline, which are thus super- fatted. Although fats contain oxygen, the proportion of the latter is too small to oxidize even the hydrogen of them, to say nothing of the carbon, so that nearly the whole of these two elements is available as fuel, and on this account fats were formerly called heat-givers. As has been seen, all foods are heat-givers in so far as they are the subjects of direct chemical action; but the name is so far applicable to the fats on account of their great value as bodily fuel. An accumulation of adipose tissue within the body is thus a storehouse of energy, a reserve fund which may be drawn upon in cold, famine, or increased exertion. The appetite recognizes this by favouring fatty foods in colder weather, and the Eskimo and Laplander relish oleaginous dishes the very mention of which is sufficient to excite nausea in the inhabitants of warmer climes. The physiology of fats is not just so clear as their be- haviour in the laboratory. Since fat is a fuel so rich and so easily available, it is oxidized in preference to the albuminous foods and tissues, and so has an albumen-sparing action. Glycerine by itself, however, has no such action; it rather increases the amount of albuminous waste, as seen in the urine. By far the most digestible form of fat is ordinary fresh butter. SUMMAKY. 1. Fats contain about 80 per cent of carbon, and 10 per cent of available hydrogen. 2. They thus stand first among food-stuffs in respect of heat and energy obtained.