252 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. Lesson 43.—DIET AND AGE. Besides season and climate, which greatly influence diet, the most important factors in this respect are the age and condition of the individual, and for this purpose life may be divided into three stages, 1st, the period of growth and development, including infancy and childhood up to 10 years of age, and adolescence up to 18; 2nd, adult life, when both growth and development have been completed; 3rd, decline, as in advancing age. Infants are brought up either on natural human milk, supplied by the mother or a wet-nurse, or on artificial sub- stitutes, generally cow's milk. In the first case, since a child has no power of digesting starch till the teeth begin to come, it should be confined to mother's milk for the first 8 or 9 months of its life, and for the first year and a half milk will be the staple food. The first milk, or colostrum, is a natural purgative, and the regular supply of milk does not start till after a day or two; the casein and fat in the milk increase up to the end of the 2nd month, salts up to the 5th, and sugar till the 8th or 10th month. The amount of casein and sugar present is always proportional to the quantity of milk, that of fat inversely so, and the milk supplied to a first-born child is always richest in solids. An infant's stomach is a very small affair, containing after 5 days only 6£ fl. drachms, but its capacity increases rapidly at first, at the end of the 4th week being 1-| or 2 times as much, and after the 8th week 31 times. From this point, however, increase in bulk is com- paratively slow, the capacity after 20 weeks being only 3^ times what it was at 5 days; care should therefore be taken to give only small amounts at short intervals, say every 2 hours for the first fortnight, then every 3 hours till the end of the 2nd month, and from that till the 7th month every 3 or 4 hours, during the daytime. When the teeth are coming in the 7th and 8th months saliva begins to flow, and some self-digested starchy matters may be given once or twice a day along with milk; but the child is still a carnivorous animal, and, along with milk, mutton broth or mutton jelly may be given, or eggs in custard. Children are generally weaned about the 10th to 12th months, but the precise time for this depends on the state of health both of mother and child. AVhen the child is 1| years old the diet may be varied