WINES. 237 For further details of the "koumiss cure", which is specially intended for cases of phthisis, the student is referred to Burney Yeo's Food in Health and Disease, p. 519. Kefyr is prepared in a similar fashion in the Caucasus from cows' milk, and since this contains less sugar than mares' milk the beverage is proportionately less alcoholic. Physiology of Alcohol.—The effects on the body of excess of alcohol are very marked, especially when it is habitually taken on an empty stomach. As is seen by the egg experiment, excess of alcohol coagulates fresh proteid matter, and thus when taken into the stomach it inflames the mucous membrane, causing gastric catarrh. Its effect upon the liver is greatly to increase the interlobular connective tissue at the expense of the liver substance, thus producing " gin - drinkers' liver". Fatty degeneration in the liver and the muscular system generally bears witness to the disturbance of nutrition set up by alcohol, and this symptom is specially observed in the heart. The blood-vessels also are affected, and are thus more liable to rupture, causing apoplexy and similar disorders; and general interference with nutrition is indicated by the presence of such diseases as gout, stone, gravel, characterized by the retention of waste products within the body or by retrograde changes. Alcohol acts through the sympathetic nervous system upon the heart and the surface circulation. The heart-beat is quick- ened and the surface capillaries filled Avith blood, so that the skin flushes and a feeling of heat is experienced. It is only a feeling, however, for a thermometer held in the mouth shows a fall in the temperature, and the reason is apparent: if more blood than usual is sent to the skin, the body loses heat by radiation. Since the circulation is stimulated the muscular system is temporarily excited, but the stimulus is fleeting and supplies no real energy. In this respect alcohol is in marked contrast to coffee, which imparts new energy to the muscles, acting upon them through the central nervous system. The action of these may be further contrasted:—alcohol lowers the temperature of the body, coffee raises it; alcohol stimulates the heart and blood-vessels, especially the surface blood-vessels, in a fugitive way, coffee imparts a fresh store of energy to these; alcohol interferes with tissue change and thus diminishes waste, as shown by the lessened output of urea and carbonic acid, coffee either leaves metabolism unaffected or slightly increases the excretions; lastly, strong coffee is an antidote in cases of alcoholic poisoning.