127 MILK. coagulation-point, and the semi-solid mass thus obtained is kept in hermetically-sealed tins. Sweetened condensed milk can be exposed to the air for a considerable time without decomposing, owing to the antiseptic action of the sugar in it, but the unsweetened milk should be used as soon as possible after opening the tin. The average composition of condensed milk is—-water, 26; nitrogenous matters, 12; fat, 11; lactose, 16; and cane-sugar, 22 per cent. In the same way milk may be evaporated to complete dryness, producing desiccated milk, which keeps indefinitely. There are several substances added to milk to arrest decom- position, and among these may be mentioned glycerin, 2 per cent; baking-soda, 1 in 1000; salicylic acid, 1 in 500; boracic acid;—the last two very commonly used—sulphur dioxide gas passed through it after boiling, or a little sulphite of soda added to produce the same effect. If boiled in a flask, and sealed, the milk remains in vacuo, and may be kept for years. The addi- tion of a pinch of baking-soda and cane-sugar will preserve milk, even without boiling, for ten to fourteen days. Within the last year a very powerful antiseptic has been discovered in Scherin's formalin, a very small proportion of which, 1 in 10,000, arrests decomposition for months. When milk is frozen, as in making ice-cream, a better sweeter cream is the result, but cold alone does not kill germs of disease, and as ice-cream shops are often in the hands of foreigners who have their own notions of cleanliness, it is highly desirable that, as in Glasgow, these places should be placed under the same stringent regulations as apply to dairies. By first heating milk, in order to arrest incipient fermentation, and then applying cold, this difficulty could be overcome. Coming now to milk as an article of diet, it will be interest- ing to compare the milk of various animals used as food, and the table on p. 128 exhibits a comparison of those most com- monly used in this way. (BIyth.) Ewe's milk is distinguished by a large amount of solids, especially fat and casein, along with a large amount of soluble albumen. Goafs milk is also rich in fat and casein, and is thus highly nutritious, though least digestible of all. It is poor in sugar, and is apt to be disliked on account of its peculiar smell, due to a characteristic acid. Mare's milk resembles human milk very closely, but is rather poorer in solids, chiefly fat and casein. Like human milk it is