FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 16 composition of haemoglobin, the substance in the red corpuscles which serves as oxygen-carrier to the tissues. As might be expected, those organs which have to do with decomposition of the blood corpuscles, namely the spleen and liver, are also very rich in iron, the spleen especially so. " The action of iron on the blood is almost unique; first, because its specific action is exerted, not upon the plasma or blood liquor, but upon the red corpuscles, and on these alone, not on any other tissue or organ. Iron has no specific action on the organs apart from the blood, and the tonic effect which it produces so satisfactorily appears to be entirely referable to its action on the blood. Abundance of oxygen is essential for every bodily and mental function; and the feeling of "tone", vigour, and mental fitness varies with the degree of oxygenation of the blood, i.e. with the quality of the blood as regards haemoglobin " (Mitchell Bruce, Thera- peutic). The total quantity of iron in the body is very small, only 3 grams or 46 grains, so that the practice of taking excessive doses of iron pills, &c, almost warrants the sarcasm about treating the stomach like a blast-furnace, what with lime-water, charcoal biscuits, and iron compounds. The factor commonly neglected here is assimilation; and if these ingredients are to be supplied, it is much better to supply them in naturally- formed vegetable or animal tissue rather than as minerals. SUMMARY. 1. Salts are essential as an ingredient in foods. 2. They serve various functions within the body; to help in the formation of bone, muscle, gastric juice, &c. 3. Salts of the vegetable acids are specially useful in preserving the alkalinity of the blood, and so. preventing scurvy. 4. The solid tissues of the body are rich in potash and phosphates; the fluids, in soda and chlorides. 5. Iron has a specific action upon the solid parts of the blood. Lesson 10.—WATER. The last proximate principle in food-stuffs is Water. As has been seen, water is not an element but an oxide of hydrogen, and it is formed when any hydrogen compound burns in air.