26 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. seeds contain no less than from one-fifth to one-fourth of their own weight of nitrogenous matter, but owing to the absence of glutinous material cannot be baked into bread. All these proteids are very complex bodies, containing the elements carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, oxygen, and a little sulphur. I heir composition varies, as shown in the following table:— & ^fbon> 51-5 to 54-5-average, 53-5 per cent. Nitrogen, 15-2 „ 17-0 „ 15-5 „ Hydrogen, 6'9 „ 7"3 „ TO , Oxygen. 20-9 „ 23-5 „ 22-4 Sulphur, 0-3 „ 2-0 „ 1-6 " The proportion of nitrogen to carbon in them is thus nearly m,U' a?d the^ contain fu% half their weight of carbon. There is another class of nitrogenous substances closely allied to the albumens proper, and hence called albuminoids or gelatinous substances, from their type, Gelatin. When any connective tissue, including bone and cartilage or gristle is boiled for a long time, a solution is obtained which forms a jelly on cooling. From the several connective tissues various gelatins are obtained in this Avay. Thus from ordinary con- nective we get collagen, from bones ossein, from cartilage chondrin, from the superficial tissues, skin, nails, &c, keratin —all forms of gelatin. In composition they resemble the albumens; they contain less sulphur but more nitrogen, the proportions of nitrogen to carbon being 4 to 11. For purposes of nutrition they are inferior to albumen, although they admit of easy digestion, and so are often given in convalescence. When a piece of meat is soaked in water, the latter dissolves out of the meat certain substances, called on that account Extractives. They are mostly nitrogenous substances, tin' chief being kreatin and kreatinin, and they play an important part in nutrition. Eaw meat yields most extractives to water if finely minced and immersed in it for several hours at a very gentle heat, not exceeding the coagulating temperature of albumen—say, 73° C. This is the process of making "beef- tea , and when made with great care as much as 6 per cent of the nutritive material of the meat may be recovered. As usually made, however, beef-tea contains only from U to 3 per cent, the heat employed being far too great, and inducing coagulation of the albuminous matters. The various extracts of meat are produced on the same principle; but it is a very