FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 40 actions on polarized light, dextrose or " right-handed " sugar rotating the ray to the right, while levnlose or " left-handed " sugar rotates it more strongly to the left. They commonly occur together in fruits, and a mixture of equal proportions forms invert sugar, so called because, owing to the stronger action of levulose, the rotation of polarized light is to the left, whereas cane-sugar rotates the ray to the right. Ordinary cane-sugar is "inverted", that is, resolved into equal parts of dextrose and levulose, a mixture of glucoses, by boiling with any mineral acid; long-continued boiling alone is sufficient to accomplish the inversion, and since glucose is only about three- fifths as sweet as cane-sugar the result is an apparent loss of sweetness. When tea is made on the large scale the sugar is often added to the water before infusing, and when this is done more sugar is required to make up for the loss of sweeten- ing due to inversion. In the Royal Navy, where tea was prepared in this way, the men said that the sugar evaporated. A similar action occurs in the manufacture of jams and jellies, where the process is hastened by the presence of the several vegetable acids in the fruit used, and the common English practice of serving sugar with tarts seems to be justified on this score, though the Scottish plan of cooking the tarts with sugar certainly gives a more palatable dish. The same change of cane-sugar into a mixture of the two glucoses takes place within the body, owing to the action of various " inverting " ferments, and so all carbohydrates what- soever are ultimately converted into glucose, which would thus seem to be the physiological sugar. As already stated, it is not so sweet as cane-sugar, neither so crystalline, nor so soluble in water, yet all starches and sugars pass into this form, and as such enter the blood. Glucose further differs from cane-sugar in two important respects, which are utilized as tests for its detection, say in m ine. When yeast is mixed with a solution of glucose/and the mixture allowed to stand in a warm place, fermentation occurs. The yeast, which is a kind of fungus, by its vital action decomposes the glucose, forming alcohol and'liberating carbonic acid gas, and producing, in short, a beer. Ferments like yeast are called organized ferments, to distinguish them from the soluble or unorganized ferments, such as ptyalin, which occur naturally in the several digestive juices. Cane- sugar does not ferment as readily, as it has first to be converted into glucose by the action of the yeast. The fermentation test