FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 202 upon which the bees have fed, a small quantity of cane-sugar, and alcohol, the latter always present in natural honey. Honey is occasionally intoxicating; in Nepaul spring honey is avoided for this reason, and the story of its effects upon Xenophon's troops will naturally recur to the memory. In this instance the honey was derived from a species of azalea (Azalea Poniica); the flavour of Narbonne honey is due to rosemary, that of Hymettus honey in Greece to flowers of the labiate order, while in our own country the difference in weight, colour, and flavour between flower and heather honey is well known, the latter being the stronger of the two. Honey is largely adulter- ated by glucose syrup, as above described, and this " honey" may be sold as low as 2d. per lb. Since starch-sugar is made by the action of sulphuric acid on starch it has always from 15 to 20 per cent of unfermented substances, Avhich may be detected in the polarimeter by their positive rotation, whereas natural honey, consisting largely of invert-sugar, shows a negative rotation. The ash left on igniting pure honey is always alkaline, and contains phosphoric acid, while honey made from glucose has a neutral ash. Not only is the honey itself often wholly or partly artificial, but our American friends show a misdirected ingenuity in making artificial honey-comb so as still further to delude the consumer. The cells are made of paraffin, and the tout ensemble looks even more inviting than pure honey. The fraud may be detected by sulphuric acid, which carbonizes ordinary wax, but not paraffin. From Australia there has appeared within the last half- dozen years honey derived from the eucalyptus-tree. It is of a deep orange colour but transparent, generally solid in such a climate as ours, but syrupy in warm weather. It contains 62 per cent of sugar and 17 per cent of eucalyptus oil, so that it has the smell and flavour of eucalyptus essence, and it is thus valuable as a medicine. It is given in warm milk and water in doses of one or two tea-spoonfuls twice or thrice a day for bronchitis, asthma, and diseases of the lungs and respiratory disorders generally. Mead is, or rather was, an English beverage made from fermented honey. Molasses or Treacle is the name given to the residue of uncrystallizable sugar obtained in refining, and, as the under noted analyses show, it contains a considerable amount of sugar, besides various bitters, which render it a stomachic, and far superior to syrup for most purposes. Owing to improvements in