160 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. and need little further comment. The different farinaceous or starchy foods are recognized under the microscope by the appearance of the starch grains, whether even in contour or facetted; to the latter class belong the starches of oats, maize, and rice. Accompanying starch, and often formed from it in cooking, is dextrin, recognized by its solubility and yellowish colour. In ripe fruits dextrose and other sugars are found, formed at the expense of cellulose and starch in the process of ripening. Along with starch may be put other carbohydrates of the same composition, such as Lichenin, found in Iceland- moss, Inulin, Mucin, and the different gums. All plants con- tain, often in large proportions, cellulose or vegetable fibre, familiar as cotton-wool and paper. When very young it may be digested, but with growth it becomes woody, and is not only itself indigestible, but hinders the digestion of other substances. A small amount of unavoidable cellulose fulfils a useful function as a laxative, by stimulating the mucous mem- brane of the bowels. In addition to cane-sugar, obtained chiefly from the sugar- cane, beet, and maple, all plants, and more especially fruits, contain fruit-sugar, dextrose and levulose, various glucosides, pectose or vegetable jelly, and the fruit acids, citric, tartaric, and others, all of which have been already dealt with. The salts of plants are characterized by excess of potash and phosphates, and, in the case of grain, indigestible silica; while in many of the cereals, notably wheat, iron is found in combination with phosphoric acid. In animal foods, on the other hand, soda and chlorides are the predominating salts, so that herbivorous animals require to supplement their vegetable diet by the use of common salt or sodium chloride. Almost every part of plants furnishes food, but more espe- cially the seeds, roots, and stem. Plants which furnish their seeds as food belong to the two great divisions, cereals or grains, and leguminous plants or pulse. Cereals, called after Ceres the goddess of corn, comprise all grain or corn-bearing plants. They are really grasses, which by special cultivation have developed a maximum of food material with a minimum of husk, and they have been cultivated from remote antiquity, the use of millet, lentils, and barley being pre-historic in origin. In geographical distribution they extend over the whole globe, from the equator to within the bounds of the Arctic circle, the extremes being represented by such tropical forms as sorghum and millet, and barley, oats, and rye, which are grown in the