I f>8 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. the Archbishop of Canterbury in 1504. Like mussels, they are boiled, preferably in sea-water, and served with vinegar and pepper. In Scotland whelks go by the name of Buckles, and the animal called there Wulkor Wilk is the English Periwinkle. This is by far the most pleasant of all the molluscs, and it is also the most common, London alone consuming annually 1900 tons, worth £15,000. They are boiled in their shells in natural sea-water, or in water to which salt has been added. Limpets, with Cockles and other bivalves, are more muscular than the fore- going, and are more nutritious but less digestible in consequence. The only terrestrial univalve is the Escargot or vineyard snail. Its use is confined to France, where it is called the poor man's oyster. They grow in the vineyards of Champagne and Burgundy, and are best when bred on well-drained clean land. They are vegetable feeders, their chief food being poisonous Solanaceous plants, the same order to which belong potatoes and the common nightshade. These are, therefore, best after the winter, when they are fasting, and in any case are kept a day or two before use to allow the removal of any hurtful substances. Their flesh is highly nitrogenous, but cooking makes it hard and firm, not so readily digested, and somewhat tasteless. SUMMARY. 1. Fish forms a nutritive diet, more watery than meat, but more digestible, and, like it, deficient entirely in carbohydrates. 2. Its proteids contain more gelatine-formers, and there is a greater loss in boiling, owing to the amount of extractives. 3. White fish have their fat confined to the liver, and are more easy of digestion than oily fish, which have their fat generally dif- fused. 4. Mature fish should only be eaten when in season, and as fresh as possible. 5. Shell-fish of all kinds should be used with discrimination, only when in season, obtained from pure waters and very fresh, and even then as an appetizer rather than a food. Lesson 30.—VEGETABLE FOODS. Plants contain all the proximate principles found in animal food, but in very different proportions and qualities, being as a rule poor in fats and very rich in carbohydrates, while their