(ili FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. these disorders. It is usual to begin treating a case of diarrhoea with a dose of castor-oil or other purgative, although to cure diarrhoea by purging sounds like a contradiction in terms. The oil sweeps out of the bowel any irritating matters which have been exciting the mucous glands, and when that is accomplished, the treatment is continued by giving the patient food as bland as possible. As in the rest of the digestive canal, the internal or mucous layer is succeeded by submucous and muscular coats, and the outer wall of the bowel is furnished by peritoneum, that membrane which enwraps all the contents of the abdomen. This last is also furnished with glands which keep the surface moist, and enable the coils of intestine to slip freely upon each other during digestion. Besides intestinal juice, supplied by the bowel glands all along the intes- tine, there are poured into l the duodenum other two important fluids, bile and pancreatic juice. The latter is secreted by the Fig. lO.-Relations of the Stomach to the Liver, BanCreaS Or Sweetbread, Pancreas, and Spleen. r""w ^ ' a compound tubular gland, in structure not unlike a salivary gland, and indeed called in Germany the abdominal salivary gland. It extends from left to right behind and below the stomach, and it tapers in the opposite direction, the broad end or exit fitting into the curve of the duodenum. The Pancreatic Juice finds its way into the duodenum by the same opening as that which conveys the bile. It is a clear fluid, somewhat thickish, without colour or smell, but having a saltish taste and alkaline reaction. It is poured into the bowel in greatest quantity about two or three hours after a meal, i.e. about the time when gastric digestion is at an end. Pancreatic juice contains several important ferments:—1. amylopsin, a ferment resembling the ptyalin of saliva, and like it converting starch into sugar; 2. trypsin, a ferment like pepsin, capable of converting proteids into peptones; 3. a milk- curdling ferment like rennet; 4. steapsin, a substance capable of decomposing fats into fatty acids and glycerine, and so forming