CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS. PROTEIDS. 23 4. The supply of nitrogen must keep pace with the output of 5. Nitrogenous waste leaves the body chiefly as urea. 6. Alkalies are opposed to acids. 7. The chief alkalies are potash, soda, ammonia. 8 When an acid is neutralized by an alkali, a salt is formed. 9. Generally speaking, a salt = acid + base, the latter a metal or something equivalent. Part II.—FOODS IN GENERAL. Lesson 5.—CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS. PROTEIDS. Having discovered that the body demands supplies of car- bon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, &c, the next step is to determine in what way that demand is met. Our body is not a blast-furnace to be fed with charcoal, lime, and ironstone, even though these were supplied in the proportions necessary for life. Humiliating as it seems, we feed at second-hand. Plants alone can draw directly upon mother earth, storing up her treasures in the form of cellulose, starch, sugar, and the like; animals are all dependent upon the tissues already formed in plants, and even carnivorous animals do no more than draw their supplies of potential energy at third instead of at second- hand. Our stomachs are not adapted to the digestion of minerals, so that even when these are required, as in cases where the body is deficient in iron or lime, it is well to follow nature and supply the deficiency from vegetable sources. Nature has provided two perfect foods, foods, that is to say, which contain the necessary nutriment in the proper propor- tions: these foods are eggs and milk. In saying that milk is a perfect food we must add, for an infant; it is not the most suitable food for an adult. Again, it must be borne in mind that the young chick, for whose use the food-materials of an egg are prepared, utilizes part of the shell as well as the yolk and the white, as may be seen by comparing the shell of a new-laid egg with that of one newly hatched. Taking milk as a standard food, it is found to contain fat, which may be creamed off, and which constitutes the bulk of butter. If a little rennet or hydrochloric acid be added to