THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 79 latter being specially concerned with unused materials and solid particles. The lymphatics themselves are minute vessels with very thin walls, and they gradually join each other to form large vessels, exactly as veins do. Like veins, they are provided with valves to prevent a backward flow of their contents, and these valves are so numerous as to give a lymphatic vessel when filled the appearance of a string of beads. On their way to join the blood-stream they pass through little oval or roundish bodies about the size of a pea or upwards, called the Lymphatic Glands. These consist of basket-work tissue, entangling little spherical bodies, the lymph corpuscles; and as the lymph-stream flows through the spongy mass of the gland it washes away some of these corpuscles, and also acquires the property of clotting, thus beginning to assume the characters of blood. Lymphatic glands are pretty numerous at the groin, shoulder, and neck, and they are found in great numbers on the mesen- tery, the membrane which supports and enwraps the intestines. One of their functions seems to be the arrest of injurious foreign matters; thus when a slight blood-poisoning occurs, as the result say of an ingrowing toe-nail, any injurious matter introduced by the wound makes itself felt at the lymphatic glands of the groin. In the same way, when a sailor, tattoos his hand, some of the colouring matter is carried off by the lymphatics and arrested by the glands at the elbow or the shoulder. To the lymphatics of the intestine the special name of lacteals has been given, not from any difference of structure, but because of the nature of their contents after a meal, and on account of their greater absorptive activity. Ordinary lymph is a clear, colourless, alkaline fluid, of an albuminous nature, with swimming in it the round bodies already described as lymph corpuscles. Except in colour it resembles the liquid part of blood, and like the latter is capable of clotting. In the intervals of digestion the lacteals contain ordinary lymph, but during digestion, owing to the great amount of emulsified fat taken up by the lacteals, their contents become milky from the presence of oil-globules, and are then called Chyle. Chyle is thus found only in the lacteals, i.e. the lymphatics of the bowel, and even there only after meals, and it differs from lymph and the fluid portion of blood in containing 1 per cent of fat in the form of oil-globules. The chyle, carrying the bulk of the fatty foods in an emulsi-