ALCOHOLIC DRINKS. 225 distilled from fermented grape-juice, for since the ravages made in French vineyards by the phylloxera, pure cognac is exceedingly rave, and most of the brandy in existence is simply potato spirit or grain spirit. The starch of these is converted into sugar by extract of malt, yeast is added, and the fermenting mixture distilled at 78"3° C, the boiling-point of alcohol. The colour of brandy may be clue to caramel, but is often imparted by storing the liquid in oak casks; this extracts a large amount of tannin, and so far condemns the liquid owing to the action of tannin on digestion. Although brandy has long been regarded by medical men as the finest form of alcohol, it is very questionable whether, to avoid adulteration, a good malt whisky would not be preferable, all the more as it is only inferior brandies which are coloured by caramel. Most of the brandy made in Britain is artificial, being made from argol, plums, &c, by distilling with grain spirit and adding tannin, acetic ether, and caramel to imitate the colour and flavour. Whisky contains 50-55 per cent of alcohol, and is made from barley malt, grain, or starch. Scotch whisky is made from malt mash, Irish from malt and grain, no sugar being used; new whisky is pot-still whisky. In the old days of the " sum' still" barley malt was exclusively used, but the introduction of patent stills and the extended scale of manufacture has increased the amount of potato and grain spirit, and it is in these spirits from unaltered starch that fusel-oil is found. When whisky is allowed to mature, the fusel-oil decomposes into bodies comparatively harmless, and there are also developed at the expense of the alcohol various ethers which, as in the case of brandy, impart a characteristic flavour. In Scotland and Ire- land the " smell of peat-reek " is imparted by drying the grain over peat fires. As already mentioned, good malt whisky is more likely to be pure than brandy, and it has the advantage of being much cheaper. The drink sold by illicit traders in shebeens and low public-houses is generally of a very vile description, made from questionable material and crammed with injurious products. ]In in, a spirit containing 50-70 per cent of alcohol, is in the W est Indies distilled from fermented molasses, though inferior kinds are also made from the debris of the sugar-cane left in the mills. On the Continent rum is also made from beet- molasses. It is the strongest of our spirits, rising up to 90 per cent, and is the only one which contains a little sugar. (M173) p