FOOD ACCESSORIES. 205 within the system; continental vinegar contains no such adul- teration. Artificial vinegar is made from acetic acid coloured with caramel, but it lacks the volatile ethers which characterize pure vinegar. Like other vegetable acids, vinegar is converted within the body into alkaline carbonates, and thus in moderate quantities, from half an ounce to an ounce daily, exercises an antiscorbutic action, but much inferior to lemons and limes. In moderation it allays thirst, checks excessive sweating, and aids digestion, especially the digestion of shell-fish and fish. Salads are much more digestible when eaten with vinegar, and the addition of a little is said to improve the flavour of many fruits. In large quantities it is undoubtedly injurious, interfering with digestion and often inducing gastric catarrh and other disorders of the alimentary canal; since it retards digestion it is often taken in various forms as a remedy for corpulence. It prevents the decay of animal and vegetable substances, and is used in this way for pickles; while in cooking fish, especially in hot weather, it is valuable not merely for its preservative action but for its chemical effects upon the muscles and bones of the fish, partly dissolving the latter and converting the flesh into acid albumen, thus anticipating the action of the stomach. Mustard is an example of a condiment pure and simple, that is to say, it has no effect as a food nor in the chemistry of digestion, but simply stimulates the various glands, salivary, gastric, and others, so as to supply an increased Aoav of diges- tive juices. In the normal condition such stimulation is un- necessary; hunger is the best sauce, and the flavouring products developed in the processes of cooking are alone quite sufficient to act as appetizers. It is the old story of the crutches over again, and when the digestive organs have been whipped up in this way they cease to act unless in response to the stimulus, which thus becomes a necessity, stronger and stronger doses being required to produce the wonted effect, leading up to the fearful fiery combinations used to stimulate the jaded appetites of Anglo-Indians. Mustard owes its properties to an oil of mustard, which exists not as such, but as myronate of potash combined with a nitrogenous ferment, and from these on add- ing water the oil is gradually formed; the condiment should thus be made fresh for use so as to secure the full flavour. Although useful in small quantities, its use in excess leads to liver complaint. Pure mustard would be unpalatable, hence the commercial article is always diluted rather than adulterated