FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 138 may be overcome in the harder forms by grating the cheese, but even here methods of cooking leave much to be desired. When cheese is toasted, its fat melts and parts with some water, but if the heat be continued, or if the cheese be poor in fat to begin with, the only effect of heat is to harden the casein and convert it into a horny indigestible mass, such as is formed when an egg is over-fried. It is quite true that a slight amount of indigestible matter stimulates the action of the bowels, but to render food indigestible is culpable waste as well as ignorance. Before leaving the subject of milk it may be useful to recall the unique position this substance holds with respect to the spread of zymotic diseases. Scarlet fever and diphtheria have again and again been traced to milk-supply, the milk having been infected in the first instance by the milkers or others recovering from these diseases. It is now demon- strated that there is a cow scarlatina, and probably a cow diphtheria, and these may infect milk apart from human origin. Such diseases as enteric fever and cholera can only be spread by milk through a polluted water-supply, the water being used either for diluting the milk or for cleansing cans, milk-pails, &c. Can tuberculosis be communicated by milk? The question is fully answered in the report of the Royal Commission presented. April, 1895, and its conclusions may be briefly given thus:—Tuberculous cows with healthy udders gave milk free from tubercle bacilli; even when fed with tuberculous matter they still gave healthy milk. When the udder was diseased, but post-mortem examination revealed no tubercle, again no tubercle bacilli occurred in the milk; but when the udder disease was tuberculous the bacilli were found in milk. Obviously, since a post-mortem examination cannot be held in every case of udder disease, the simplest plan is to examine the milk microscopically in every such case, and, if the tubercle bacillus is found, to condemn the milk and prevent it from passing into consumption. The tubercle bacillus is so easily killed by application of heat that all that is required to sterilize infected milk is to bring it to the boil—it need not be kept boiling,—since the bacillus is killed by a temperature of 40° C. Children dislike the flavour of boiled milk, and it is certainly less digestible than fresh milk, but this is a small matter compared with the immunity conferred. The action of centrifugal separators on tubercle bacilli has already been noticed.