FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 244 3. Mineral waters have generally an aperient action, stimulating the bowels, and, when hot, the kidneys and skin as well, while those containing sulphur act specially in disorders of the skin. Part V.—DIETETICS. Lesson 42.—FOOD AND DIET. In previous lessons attention has been drawn to the various means adopted for the preservation of food, and it may now be advisable to have these methods summarized. They fall conveniently under four heads— 1. Exclusion, of Aerial Germs.—This is exemplified in the preservation of eggs by closing the pores of the shell in various ways, by bottling wines or covering their free surface in the cask with olive-oil as with light wines and lime-juice. In preserving milk in this way, care must be taken to kill lactic-acid germs already present, by boiling, and bottling while hot. The large and increasing class of tinned meats are pre- pared in this way, being often cooked in the tin, which is then closed all but a small hole, and, on reheating so as to expel all air by steam, this opening is closed by a drop of solder. The dangers arising from the use of tinned meats are of two kinds, decay of the contents owing to imperfect closing of the tin, or more commonly incipient decay before the tin was closed, forming ptomaines; or chemical action of the juices, &c, on the solder or tin itself. 2. Desiccation.—This consists in removing all moisture, and is the natural method of preserving grains and dry fruits; but the process has been extended to pulpy fruits and meat, which can thus be kept indefinitely if removed from the influence of moisture. 3. Addition of Germicides.—The commonest illustration of this is seen in jam-making, where sugar is the germicide em- ployed. Fruits are also preserved in syrup and spirits, while vinegar is the usual basis of pickles of all sorts. Milk preser- vation has been dealt with pretty fully under that head; it is most effectually preserved by a comparatively new substance - formalin. Salt is a common addition to animal foods, it tends to render meat more indigestible and must be removed before