EGGS. 139 Since milk affords such a happy hunting-ground for disease germs and since cold alone is powerless to kill these germs, it is much to he regretted that the manufacture of ice-cream is still unregulated. Ice-cream shops are usually conducted by people whose notions of cleanliness are, to put it mildly, conti- nental, and evidence in connection with the Glasgow Police Act abundantly showed that zymotic diseases have been communi- cated by this agency. SUMMAEY. 1. Cheese consists of almost equal parts of w£ater, fat, and casein, with 4 per cent or so of salts. 2. It is very nutritious, 1 lb. cheese being equal in nitrogenous matter to 2 lbs. meat, and in fats to 3 lbs. meat. 3. Cheese, especially in the harder forms, is difficult of digestion, and needs preparation by mastication or cooking. 4. It retards digestion, although small portions of old cheese may act as digestive stimulants. 5. Milk is specially notorious as a vehicle for disease germs, notably tuberculosis, scarlet fever, and diphtheria, while typhoid is often spread by the use of infected water in dairies. Lesson 27.—EGGS. Eggs form another natural perfect food, in this case for the embryo chick. It must be borne in mind, however, that in this the shell plays a considerable part, as may be seen by a comparison of its relative thicknesses when laid and when newly hatched. The shell consists chiefly of chalk, carbonate of lime, and magnesia, and as growth proceeds these salts are partly dissolved by phosphoric acid formed from the phosphorus in the yolk. The eggs most commonly used for food are those of the hen, duck, goose, turkey, and guinea-fowl. They are all suitable for food, and their differences of quality and flavour depend upon the feeding of the birds, as is seen especially in the debcate flavour of plovers' eggs. In composition they are much alike; duck eggs contain more fat than hens'. The average weight of a hen's egg is 2 ozs., containing nearly 200 grains of solids, divided as follows:—10 parts shell, 60 parts white, of which 86 per cent is water, and 30 parts yolk con- taining 52 per cent of water; or 100 grains of egg = 10 grains