FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 26G owing to their richness in fat. If cod-liver oil can be taken, it is of great advantage in poor and ill-fed patients, who may take two tea-spoonfuls twice a day; but in febrile phthisis the pure oil is not well tolerated and is best given In emulsions. Glycerine, 10 to 15 drams daily, is an admirable substitute for the oil, since it not only promotes assimilation, but lessens waste, the urea being diminished though the carbonic acid is increased, so that there is an increase in body-weight. Cream, often used instead of cod-liver oil, is better diluted with its own bulk of hot water, with the addition of a tea-spoonful of brandy or aromatic spirit of ammonia to each tea-cupful. Milk should be taken freely, 2 to 3 glasses between meals, and a glass the last thing at night. As in other cases, milk will not pall so readily when mixed with soda or selters water. Koumiss has quite a reputation for the cure of pulmonary tubercle, but the climate of the Caspian stations has a good deal to do with the success of this treatment. Digestion is often interfered with by vomiting coming on after food has been taken, and in this case a tumbler of hot milk and selters, or a tea-cup of hot beef-tea or chicken-broth should be taken before the meal, as little fluid as possible during it, and a little pepsin and hydrochloric acid after the meal to assist gastric digestion. The following diet for consumption is given by Yeo (Medical Treatment, ii. 100):— On waking. Tumbler of milk with hot water, with salt and baking-soda to get rid of accumulated mucus. 9—10 A.M. Breakfast. Boiled bacon and light-boiled eggs; or fish; or cold meat; with tea, coffee, or cocoa. 12 noon. Glass of milk or cup of beef-tea. 1.30 or 2 p.m. Dinner. Fish, meat, chicken, or game. Fresh vegetables. Light milk-pudding, with marmalade or cooked fruits. 5 „ Another glass of milk, or thin chocolate, or tea with plenty of milk, or egg yolk switched. 6 ,, Similar to dinner. Half an hour before bed-time more milk, arrowroot, beef-tea, or tapioca soup. For specific instructions in each disease, and for the whole