98 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. Since blood cannot return the way it came, owing to the presence of these valves, it has to seek another exit, and this is found at the base of the heart, at the very top of the ventricle, by the Pulmonary Arteries carrying blood from the right ventricle to the lungs, and the Aorta carrying blood from the left ventricle to the body generally. In man, the blood is thus forced vertically upwards into vessels already filled, and so when the ventricles relax again in the process of filling, the blood in these vessels would fall back into the ventricles. This is prevented by a set of three pouch-like flaps at the mouth of each vessel—the semi-lunar valves,—so arranged that the blood, in attempting to fall back, fills the pockets and so brings their edges together with a sharp "click". When you listen carefully to the beat- ing of somebody's heart, two distinct sounds are heard with a short silence between, a dull booming sound fol- lowed by a sharper sound, and that again by a longer silence, as in the phrase, " lubb-dupp t- lubb-dupp ". The first sound corresponds to the contraction of the ven- tricles, but the sharp sound represents the closing of the semi-lunar valves, indicat- ing that the ventricles are beginning to relax or rest. The heart is a twin organ, consisting of right and left hearts, each having its own auricle, ventricle, and sets of valves, but the two auricles contract together, expelling blood into the ventricles, then the two ventricles contract together, sending blood into the great arteries, as if a wave of contraction ex- tended along the heart from base to apex. When the ven- tricles are contracting, the auricles are being filled by the veins, and when they are relaxing they are ready to be refilled by the auricles at the next contraction, for the heart like any other muscle requires intervals of rest, but unlike most muscles, it takes its rest at short intervals, and its action is rhythmic, i.e. the various events are repeated in the same order at stated intervals. The annexed diagram exhibits the events of a Cardiac Cycle, as the series is called.