FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 196 Unripe sour grapes 10 :1. Even this last ratio is high, and one would expect such a fruit to be sweet, but in unripe gi-apes the extremely sour juice of the thick skin completely over- powers the sweetness of the grape itself, and in those grapes the juice is always sweeter than the whole fruit. The acid in grapes is mainly tartaric acid, combined with potash, lime, and magnesia. When taken in excess they act as aperients, and the " Grape Cure" is vaunted for constipation, abdominal plethora, and other disorders to which persons of sedentary habits are liable. Patients on this cure begin with half a pound of grapes in the morning after rising, and another half-pound at 5 p.m. After two or three days another half-pound may be introduced between 11 and 12, then by degrees the dose is increased to about a pound each time. Pulmonary patients should not take more than 2 lbs. daily, and others should not exceed 4 lbs. For gastric catarrh 3 lbs. a day may be taken, the diet other- wise being carefully regulated. The effect of this cure is aided by a good supporting diet. Since the grape cure effects its best results when the patients take their own doses direct from the vines, and since this involves a fair amount of exercise, coupled with change of air and scene, it is questionable whether for such patients this or similar cure has any advantage over the sound democratic maxim—Live on sixpence a day and earn it Raisins are dried grapes, and are prepared in two ways. The finest, known as "Raisins of the Sun" or Muschatels, are dried on the growing plant by partially cutting the twig so as to arrest growth. The other method of drying, which produces Lexias, is more elaborate. The grapes are gathered and hung on lines, or laid in floors to dry in the sun. When dried they are dipped in a hot lye of barilla soda, to which is added a pint of olive-oil and \ lb. of salt for every four gallons. After being dipped in this, the raisins are drained and exposed to the sun for about a fortnight; they are then pulled from the stalks and packed for export. The Currant is the raisin prepared from a small seedless grape grown in Greece. The name is a corruption of Corinths. Raisins are used in dessert and in cakes, while currants enter largely into tarts, puddings, and pastry generally. Acid Fruits are represented by the gooseberry, cranberry, barberry, bilberry, and sloe. They are very refreshing, owing to the large amount of free acids in them, the ratio of sugar to