GASTRIC DIGESTION. 59 The gastric digestive process is imitated in making pepton- ized fond, and for this purpose pepsin is supplied in the form of powder or scales, or as " Liquor Pepticus ". The important point about gastric digestion is that it takes place in an acid medium, and acts almost exclusively on proteids. _ Gastric juice has no action at all on starch or fats, except in so far as it dissolves the cell-walls of the latter, and thus liberates the fat to be acted on in the intestine. Cane-sugar is slowly altered by it into dextrose or grape-sugar, and milk-sugar or lactose is often partly changed into lactic acid by the lactic ferment introduced into the stomach from the air (see page 41). The effects of gastric juice on the several classes of foods may be shown thus:— Coagulated, if not already solid, and changed into albumose, then into peptone. Liberated by solution of the cell-walls. Not affected. Partly changed into dextrose, partly into lactic acid. The whole forms a sourish mass called Chyme, and hence gastric digestion is often called chymification. During the process all soluble matters, water, soluble salts, and peptones, are being absorbed by the stomach walls, and the remaining proteids, with all the fats and starches and the great bulk of the sugars, pass through the pyloric valve to be disposed of in the bowel. Contrary to popular estimation, the stomach is not the chief seat of digestive activity, but is to be regarded as merely a preparatory organ, adapting food for treatment in the true digestive chamber, the small intestine. Since the stomach is strongly acid, the action of the alkaline saliva is stopped shortly after the bolus of food enters the stomach, for by the churning which the food undergoes it is soaked through and through with gastric juice. Food remains in the stomach about three hours on an average; some light foods, such as tripe, requiring only one hour's digestion, while smoked ham may take as much as five hours, and lobsters even longer. The results of several experiments have been embodied in the following table (Combe); but there are a good many factors of which the table takes no account, such as the interval since the last meal, state of appetite, amount of work and exercise, method of cooking, and especially quantity of food taken. Proteids, Fats, ... Starch, Sugar,...