MILK. 125 The chief proteid in milk is Casein, or rather caseinogen, the substance which when coagulated forms casein, but usually kept in solution by its association with phosphate of lime. The curdling of milk resembles in many respects the coagula- tion of bloocl, since it demands "casein-factors", viz. caseinogen, certain salts, notably those of lime, and a milk-curdling ferment. In ordinary cases this ferment is liennet, derived from the stomach of the calf, and its action seems to be that it decom- poses caseinogen into casein and whey-albumen. Coav's milk forms in the stomach large clots of curd, while human milk curdles as a granular mass; hence the need of treating cow's milk in some way before giving it to infants. This is very simply done by adding boiling water, which coagulates the albumen but not the casein, followed by a little lime-water or barley-water. The effect of lime-water, which is alkaline, is partly to neutralize the acid gastric juice and so enfeeble it that the casein is curdled only by slow degrees; this, however, is an interference with the work of the stomach, and barley- water is to be preferred. The latter acts mechanically in virtue of its mucilaginous nature, keeping the particles of casein from clotting together into large masses, and it is moreover nutri- tious in itself. Casein is easily formed in the granular condition by adding acids to milk, but the granular casein thus obtained is said to differ considerably from that curdled by rennet. When milk is curdled by rennet " sweet whey " is formed, and the reaction is alkaline; the casein here is partly precipitated as curd, and slightly dissolved into whey-albumen. Milk for infants may thus be prepared by adding a few drops of lemon juice, as in making " humanized " milk, to be described later. Milk-fat, or Butter, consists of glycerides of stearin, olein, palmitin, and other neutral fats, containing the characteristic ;u i(]; butyric acid. In human milk-fat there is twice as much olein as there is of palmitin and stearin together, whereas in cow's butter the proportions are about equal; cow's butter is therefore firmer in consistence. More fat is absorbed in pro- portion to proteid matter in milk, and fresh butter is the most easily digested form of all fats. Persons whose stomachs reject cod-liver and similar oils should have no difficulty, therefore, in obtaining a supply of fatty food in this very palatable form. When milk is skimmed, as in the old style of creaming, the cream removed contains almost all the fat, with a small pro- portion of casein, which always tends to accompany the fat.