FOOD IN SICKNESS. 257 found too strong in acute cases, just as it is for an infant. Sir William Jenner points out in this connection that a pint of milk contains as much solid matter as a full-sized mutton- chop! Milk, therefore, must be diluted as for a young child, cither with a natural alkaline water, such as Apollinaris or Vichy, or the latter may be imitated by adding to a cupful of milk and water 3 grains each of baking-soda, common salt, and bicarbonate of potash, and 2 grains of magnesia. The addition of a few drops of brandy will not only supply a useful stimulant, but will help to predigest the milk, the object in all cases being to give a food very easily absorbed and assimilated. Some people cannot tolerate even milk, and they should try skim-milk or butter-milk. As convalescence progresses, milk may be supplemented by light beef-tea or clear soup free from fat; the oatmeal jelly already described will be found excellent, even in cases where milk and water proves irritating, nutriment in such a case being given in small quantities and at short intervals. Thereafter, in ascending order of difficulty, doctors allow peptonized meats, animal jellies, arrowroot and other farinaceous foods in milk, tea, and the like in small quantities and occasionally, then short-fibred white flesh-meats, such as chicken and fish. Acid fruit-juices, such as home-made lemonade, are best for allaying the thirst which characterizes all fevers, and these beverages may be made more nourishing by adding albuminous materials, as in albumen water, made from white of egg whipped in two parts of water and strained, or Semmola's glycerine drink, 1 oz. of glycerine and 3 ozs. of citric acid to a pint of water, this latter being specially useful for dry throat. Certain specific infective diseases have one or two points of peculiar interest. Thus in Diphtheria, owing to the action of the virus on the nerve-centres, food must be at once nourish- ing and stimulating, and good sound port wine bears a good name in these respects. In Whooping-cough, again, owing to the spasms, which interfere with the regular action of the stomach, the food must not only be fluid, but rapidly diges- tible, i.e. it must be peptonized beforehand. To keep down the vomiting induced by the spasms, black coffee may be given, and immediately after vomiting, peptonized milk with a few drops of brandy, thus surprising the stomach, as it were, into retaining food, while feeding by the bowel is useful as a com- plementary proceeding. In Typlioid Fever abundance of liquids should be given, (M173) R