FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 1 ss sant article of food, and has been much praised in cases of pulmonary co] isumptio 11. Mushroom Ketchup is made from the common mushroom by breaking it into small pieces and mixing with salt, which acts upon it so as to reduce the whole mass to an almost liquid state, then straining and boiling down to about half the bulk. Spices of different kinds are added, and sometimes wine. Mushroom ketchup must be kept in corked bottles. Walnut ketchup is made from unripe walnuts before the shell has hardened. They are beaten to a pulp, and the juice separated by straining; salt and vinegar are added, also spices, and after considerable boiling down the ketchup is bottled, and may be kept for years. Tomato ketchup is made in a similar manner from tomatoes, but without being strained. SUMMARY. 1. Fungi are nitrogenous in composition, but contain much water, and are scarcely assimilated. 2. Iceland-moss is a valuable farinaceous food, containing 80 per cent of starch. 3. Carrageen moss contains 80 per cent of vegetable jelly, and is used in infant feeding. Lesson 36.—FRUITS. Man has been asserted to be naturally a frugivorous animal who by habit has become omnivorous, and it is certain that, taking the word in its botanical sense, fruits exceed in human value all the other parts of plants. In cereals they are valued for their farinaceous matters, starch, fat, and gluten; in succu- lent fruits for their water, sugar, free acid, and salts; in the banana, plantain, and bread-fruit for their starchy pulp; in nuts for their oils; while a great many of them, as pepper, cloves, vanilla, are used as condiments. Using the term in its restricted and popular sense, it will be seen from the above table that all fruits contain nitrogenous substances, and are so far tissue-forming, but this is so very small in amount that to sustain the body on fruits alone would demand enormous quantities of fruits; thus to replace one egg in food-value there would be needed more than 1 lb. of cherries.