VEGETABLE FOODS. 165 little of the alcohol may be converted into acetic acid, and a little of the sugar into lactic and other acids. The nitrogenous matters of the flour, both soluble albumen and gluten, are rendered insoluble and combined more thoroughly than before with the starch, and a little of the nitrogenous substance m the crust is destroyed. It is now held that new bread is more likely to be germ free than stale bread, owing to the germicide action of the heat in baking. From the above statements it appears that yeast has almost a digestive action upon flour, converting starch into dextrin and sugars, chiefly maltose and glucose, and changing proteids into albumoses, or even into peptones, as in the human stomach. To check fermentation and improve the colour of bread Alum is often added; the proportion should not exceed 10 grs. per 4-lb. loaf. Alum is easily detected by shaking up some Hour in its own weight of water, and adding fresh logwood solution rendered alkaline by ammonium carbonate; if alum be present the flour will turn lavender in colour instead of pink, and in this way 1 in 10,000 of alum may be detected. The second method of generating carbonic acid gas is by the use of various baking-powders. The ordinary domestic baking- powder is bicarbonate of soda and tartaric acid, which leaves tartrate of soda in the bread. M'Dougall's and Liebig's baking- powders have acid phosphate of lime, with carbonate of soda or potash and salt; in this case leaving in the bread a phosphate of lime and potash. Neville's process consists in using ammonium carbonate alone, and it has this advantage, that ammonia as well as carbonic acid escapes, leaving no residue. These unfer- mented or unleavened breads of course contain none of the bye-products of fermentation, but their taste is not so agreeable as that of ordinary bread, and except in household baking they are rarely used. The third process for "raising" bread is Dauglish's, and con- sists in passing carbonic acid gas under pressure into the mass of dough. This is entirely done by machinery, and produces what is called Aerated Bread. It is sweeter and drier than ordinary bread, and therefore in keeping does not mould, but rather breaks up, being very brittle. Its flavour differs from that of ordinary bread, and of course there is no chemical action such as occurs when yeast is used. Biscuit differs from bread in that there is no yeast used in its manufacture. It is made from flour containing as little bran as possible, since bran absorbs water readily, and worked