BLACKIE AND SON'S SCIENCE CATALOGUE 4 SCIENCE TEXT-BOOKS. Advanced Series—Contd. "As is usual throughout this excellent science series, every effort is made to assist the student hy the adoption of the simplest language and by leaving no point unexplained."—Daily Chronicle. "To the science student who has neglected his mathematics, such a text-book should prove invaluable."—Educational Times. A Text-Book of Heat. By Charles H. Draper, b.a., D.Sc.Lond., Headmaster of the Boys' High School, Woolwich. Crown 8vo, cloth, 4s. 6d. "Dr. Draper has furnished us with a Text-Book of Heat, well suited for students in science colleges. Instead of the usual chapter or so, one-third of the book is devoted to the principles of thermodynamics. The work is complete, precise, and up to date. . . . The principles of thermodynamics are treated in a simple mathematical manner, and are worthy of the study of all students having a slight knowledge of the calculus. What makes this part of the work of especial value is the fact that Dr. Draper has wisely illustrated all his formula? by numerical examples. Thus a beginner can appreciate that the theoretical results have a practical value, besides knowing how to apply the formula: to specific cases that may arise. The illustrations—one hundred and twenty-eight in number—are excellent and useful. We heartily congratulate Dr. Draper on his book, and trust that it may meet with the success that it deserves."—Journal of Education. "We have already called attention to the excellent series of elementary text- books on different branches of science which are being issued by this firm. A high standard is maintained, and the authors do not content themselves with re- arranging the contents of existing books and perpetuating their errors. Dr. Draper has produced an excellent introduction to the subject, having consulted original authorities, and, at the same time, cared for the needs of practical students. Illustrative examples abound."—Oxford Magazine. "This is a very good text-book. It contains all the facts and methods which a text-book of heat is expected to contain, and also many which have not hitherto usually been given, but without which the text-book of the future will hardly be considered complete In this book, the very latest and best methods are given in nearly every case, and are generally illustrated by figures which are not mere diagrams, but convey a good idea of the apparatus actually used."— University Correspondent. "Dr. Draper has endeavoured in the present volume to dispense, as far as possible, with higher mathematical problems, but in following out this plan he has not sacrificed scientific method. Up to a certain point, of course, he can carry us without the higher branches of mathematics, but it needs great skill, and we are glad to say that he has contrived to perform this task with most tangible and happy results."—Educational Review. " This is an excellent introduction to the study of heat, profusely illustrated, and well adapted to non-mathematical readers."—Educational Times. " The whole book is clear and concise to a degree, and not the least interest- ing and valuable part of it will be found in the many illustrations."—Daily Chronicle. The Arithmetic of Magnetism and Electricity. By Robert Gunn, Science Lecturer, Glasgow School Board. F'cap 8vo, cloth, 2s. 6d. "Will be found very useful by advanced students, and is certain to have an excellent effect on the accuracy of their work."—University Correspondent. "The arithmetical exercises are as they ought to be, both numerous and comprehensive, for only by a variety of illustrative exercises is it possible to permanently impress upon the mind the meaning of the fundamental laws under- lying any science."—Practical Engineer. ■