253 DIET AND AGE. by the gradual introduction of white flesh, stale-bread crumbs biscuit, mutton, and beef, and when the molar teeth are well formed, foods demanding some chewing. Diet in Nursing.—If a wet-nurse is employed, the infant should be about the same age as her own to secure the proper composition of milk; after 3 months the milk is fairly uniform in quality. A woman who has had several children is pre- ferred, but simply on the ground of experience in nursing Both for wet-nurses and nursing mothers diet is a matter of supreme importance, generally erring on the side of richness. Instead of being dosed with butcher-meat and porter, and cooped up in the nursery, nurses should avoid beer and all rich foods, and confine themselves to a diet, simple, regular, and nutritious, and should take as much exercise as possible. To overcome constipation arising from too much confinement oatmeal may be taken, while the flow of milk is increased by milk-gruel, broth, or chocolate. As already mentioned, drugs taken by the mother often pass into the milk. Artificial Feeding.—When an infant has to be brought up on the bottle, care must be taken to dilute the cow's milk generally used, so as to make it resemble human milk as much as possible. The difference in character of the casein obtained from cow's and human milk by curdling with rennet or gastric juice has already been referred to, and it is useful to know that the proteids in cow's milk curdled by acids are four times as much as the other proteids, whereas in human milk the proportions are reversed, non-coagulable proteids being double the amount of those curdled by acid. Children have their livers large as compared with adults, and proteids and fats bulk more largely in their diet, the proportion of carbo- hydrates and fats being almost equal, whereas in the adult they are 3 to 1. When condensed milk is used it is generally diluted so much as to give too little casein and fat, while to increase the quantity means excess of sugar, and more than half of that is in the form of cane-sugar, which tends to produce irritation by fermentation. To supply the deficien- cies of fat and casein a little cream and white of egg may be added. The one advantage of condensed milk is its con- venience in travelling, or in out-of-the-way places where milk is scarce, or as a last resort in an emergency. Says Dr. Louis Starr, " Infants fed upon condensed milk, though fat, are pale, lethargic, and flabby; although large, are far from strong; have little power to resist disease; cut their teeth late; and