137 CHEESE. still, superior to cheese made from skim-milk without the addition of fat. Analyses of Dunlop, oleo-cheese, and Gorgon- zola show the following proportions of fats and casein:— Dunlop. Oleo-cheese. Gorgonzola. 31- 68 none. 32- 30 11-32 16-98 32-64 26-99 6-75 26-16 "Filled" cheese is a term employed to distinguish certain cheeses sent from the Western States. They are made chiefly of lard, and look very like whole-milk cheeses, but they corrupt very cpiickly, especially in hot weather, and in spite of their admixture the lard and casein refuse to blend intimately, as may be seen by leaving a slice of filled cheese on a plate in a warm place; the lard will be found nearly all melted out next morning. Of course, if either oleo-cheese or filled cheese are palmed off ixpon a consumer as whole-milk cheese, that is a distinct infringement of the Food and Drugs Act; whether oleo-cheese can be legally sold as a skim-milk cheese is at present a moot point. Cheese as a food-stuff is remarkable as presenting a large amount of nutriment in small bulk, one pound of cheese con- taining as much nitrogenous food as two pounds of meat, and as much fat as three pounds. Against this must be set the fact that cheese is apt to be indigestible, especially in the skim- milk forms, but for men working in the open air and called upon for a great output of mechanical work, cheese will be found to be a very serviceable diet. The common opinion that cheese aids digestion is founded upon a mistake. A Ger- man chemist digested cheese in a digestive fluid containing fresh gastric juice, and found that, while an ordinary meal took 4 to 5 hours to digest, cheese required 4 to 10 hours. Much of the indigestibility of cheese will be found to be due to imperfect preparation, either of mastication or of cooking, as well as to the absence of the natural salts of milk, especially potash. In making cheese, common salt or chloride of sodium is added, but soda salts cannot replace those of potash in the animal economy, and in this connection the late Professor Williams has pointed out that cheese warmed with carbonate of potash is completely liquefied. The mechanical difficulty