22 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. left a mass of salt-cake, Glauber's salt or sodium sulphate. This action is important, since the active cells of the stomach glands manufacture hydrochloric acid, and of course the material is supplied to them in the form of the common salt and other chlorides eaten in food. As an example of another kind of chemical action, take a solution of sugar of lead, a substance formed by acetic acid acting upon lead as a base, and therefore a salt, acetate of lead, and add to it a solution of Epsom salts or magnesium sulphate! A white substance is formed, insoluble in water, and it proves to be sulphate of lead, formed in this way:— Lead + acetic acid and ) . I lead + sulphuric acid and magnesium + sulphuric acid ( rm j magnesium + acetic acid. In this case both bases have changed acids, resulting in the formation of two new salts, sulphate of lead and acetate of magnesium ; this kind of change is double decomposition. Lastly, mix tartrate of potash and tartrate of soda, dissolve both in water and evaporate to dryness, and there are formed crystals of a tartrate of potash and soda, commonly called Eochelle salt, an example of a double salt, where two bases have combined with the same acid. The alums are familiar cases of this, common alum being the double sulphate of potash and alumina; so dolomite is a double carbonate, glass a double silicate, and so on. If the proportion of acid be in excess of what is required for neutralization, an acid salt may be formed; thus baking-soda, or bicarbonate of sodium, is made by passing carbonic acid gas through a solution of the ordinary carbonate, washing-soda, thus:— Carbonate of soda ) , ,. , . , and carbonic acid j form ^carbonate of soda. Another common acid salt is cream of tartar, or acid tartrate of potash. Similarly an excess of base might produce a basic salt. Changes of all these kinds occur in connection with the preparation and utilization of foods, and in every case heat is evolved. SUMMARY. 1. Nitrogen is essential to life. 2. The body gets its nitrogen from food, not air. 3. Nitrogenous foods thus came to be called "flesh-forming".