232 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. Cider is properly apple wine, and is so called in Germany. It is extensively made in Devonshire and Worcester district in England, and in Normandy and the United States, and is pre- pared from acid or bitter apples. The apples are bruised in a mill, and the pulp pressed through hair-cloth sieves. The apple-juice thus got is a dark-coloured, sweetish liquid, and is set aside in casks to ferment naturally. In a few days the clear liquid is decanted off, and must be bottled, since it does not keep very well, being converted into "hard cider" owing to the formation of lactic acid. Cider contains from 5 to 9 per cent of alcohol, and so far resembles beer rather than wine. The acid in it is not tartaric but malic acid, and this gives it an aperient action. Cider differs from beer in having neither bitters nor malt extract, and is proportionately less nourishing, but it forms a very cool refreshing drink in summer. Perry is pear wine, and is made in Worcester and Devon, forming with cider the chief beverage of these districts. It is made from pears which are rather sour for eating, and like cider contains from 5 to 9 per cent of alcohol, being therefore in- toxicating when drunk in large quantities. The analyses of wines on p. 233 are given by Konig. Beer is an alcoholic liquor produced by the artificial fermen- tation of malt as already described. It is thus distinguished from wine, in which fermentation is natural and produced by Saccharomyces ellipsoideus, whereas in beer the brewer adds the yeast, a form of the class Saccharomyces cerevisice. The process of brewing has been already described, and all that is necessary here is to add a few details. There are two methods of inducing fermentation, depending on the kind of yeast used. In Britain, and formerly on the Continent as well, "Top" yeast (Oberhefe) is added to an infusion of malt, and fermen- tation is carried on at a moderately high temperature, 15 to 18° C. (60-66° F.); the yeast in this process floats as a scum on the top, and is skimmed off as occasion requires. Throughout Europe this process has now been almost entirely discarded in favour of the use of Low yeast (Unterhefe), a result due to the researches of Pasteur. In studying the subject of fermentation Pasteur found that the high temperature at which ordinary brewing was conducted encouraged the growth of " wild" yeasts and other micro-organisms, and these gave rise to acid fermentation, ropiness, muddy appearance, bitter taste, and other deleterious effects. To secure uniformity of results he recommended the employment of low yeast, which flourishes