FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 236 alcohol, the proportions ranging from 1£ per cent in Brunswick sweet beer, a liquor with which intoxication is a physical impossibility, up to the strong British beers, as represented by Bass's and M'Ewan's, containing from 7 to 8£ per cent. In order to increase its intoxicating properties, and so give an appearance of greater alcoholic strength, cocculus indicus is often added. German beers are much less alcoholic than British beers; some of them, indeed, contain so little that they are intended for immediate consumption only. Lager beers are stronger, while Bavarian beer, made under stringent regu- lations, has a deservedly high reputation. The quality of water used has an important influence on beer; only the best spring water is used, and thus beer shows on evaporating and igniting a small percentage of ash. Common salt is often added to beer to induce thirst, and sugar to increase the "head" of froth and give an appearance of greater aeration. Stout is a beer in which a darker colour has been produced by the addition of roasted malt; it is therefore proportionately more nutritious than ordinary ale, though more liable to adul- teration. Porter is another British mixture of dubious composition, containing often liquorice, treacle, linseed, &c, These drinks are often used by nurses to increase their supply of milk, but their action in this respect is entirely fallacious, as already explained in the lesson on milk. There are two examples of what may be called milk beers, viz. Koumiss and Kefyr, the alcohol in which is derived from the fermentation of milk-sugar, in the former case from mares' milk, in the latter from cows'. Koumiss is prepared for inva- lids in forms of different alcoholic strength, ranging from 1 to 3 per cent, and contains besides all the milk products and lactic acid, the casein being in the granular condition and therefore readily digested, while the slight amount of alcohol, too small to intoxicate, serves to stimulate the gastric secretions. It is frothy and milky-looking, not unlike milk and soda, with a slightly acid taste, and the following is given as its composi- tion after two days' fermentation:—- Alcohol, Fat, Lactose, Lactic acid, Casein, finely divided, Salts, Carbonic acid, 1 *65 per cent. 2-05 2-20 M5 1-12 „ 0-28 0-70