112 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. occupies a position between herbivora and carnivora, inclining towards tlie latter, as the following table shows:— In man the kidneys remove 60% of the total water, lungs and skin 40% „ herbivora „ 30% „ „ 70% „ carnivora „ 70% „ „ 30% There are two substances whose presence in urine is of the utmost importance, inasmuch as it may indicate serious func- tional derangement—sugar and albumen. To test for albumen in urine, heat a little urine in a test-tube; the albumen if present will coagulate, and will remain undissolved on adding acetic acid. In the normal condition all nitrogenous waste appears in the form of urea, uric acid, &c, and is eliminated as such. The presence of albumen in urine, therefore, indi- cates that assimilation of proteids is not proceeding properly, or that there is something wrong with the organs concerned in the production of urea, viz. the liver and kidneys. There are some people who can never take a hearty breakfast of ham and eggs without having albumen in the urine, but in the great majority of cases such symptom shows disordered meta- bolism, generally indicating, when permanent, some form of Bright's disease. In laying down a diet for disorders of this kind, the object in view is to remove from the blood those products of albu- minous waste for which the urine is the natural outlet, and so to give food sufficient to maintain the system, but entailing the least amount of work upon the digestive organs, and furnishing the minimum amount of albuminous waste. Such a food is Milk, and accordingly, in all cases of albuminuria, where the structure of the kidney is not very largely involved, a purely milk diet will be found to encourage the flow of urine and the formation of the normal urinary products, while giving the diseased kidney as little to do as possible. When the symptoms amend, the patient may gradually return to the ordinary mixed diet, always avoiding excess of nitrogenous foods. The other substance abnormally present in urine is Sugar, in the form of dextrose, characteristic of the disease known as diabetes. In previous lessons it was shown that all carbo- hydrates, starches, and sugars become converted in digestion into dextrose or grape-sugar, which finds its way into the liver by the portal vein, though a small quantity may get into the blood by the lymphatic system and the thoracic duct. In the