BLOOD. 91 Blood Blood Plasma Corpuscles Plasma Corpuscles Serum Fibrin-factors Fibrin-factors Serum Fibrin Fibrin Dcjibrinatcd blood. Clot. Clotting may be regarded as nature's provision for arresting bleeding. It is accelerated by contact of the blood with foreign bodies, exposure to air, shaking, and hot water—not luke- warm, which encourages bleeding, but as hot as can be borne, in order to coagulate the blood albumens. It is retarded by absence of air, cold, and by adding certain salts to blood, the reason in the latter case being that the fibrin-factors remain in solution owing to the presence of these salts. Returning now to the red corpuscles; what are their special duties ? A red corpuscle consists of a spongy framework con- taining a very important substance, Haemoglobin. It is this which gives blood its red colour, and occasionally the haemo- globin may be dissolved out of the corpuscles, constituting "laky blood". In composition it resembles albumen, consist- ing of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, with the addition of iron, and T97 of it is in the shape of hsematin, which may be regarded as the colouring matter of blood. When the red corpuscles have run their course, and their average life is about 21 to 28 days, they are decomposed in the spleen, and the products of decomposition are carried by the portal vein into the liver, where they are further decomposed. At any rate, out of the waste colouring matter of blood the liver forms various pigments, the green and bronze bile-pigments, and the colouring matter of the fasces, while the pigment of urine is also due to the same source, decomposition of the red cor- puscles. By far their most important function, however, is the supply of oxygen to the tissues. Blood itself contains half its bulk of dissolved gases, chiefly carbonic acid gas, but haemoglobin has the power of combining chemically with oxygen so as to form a loose compound, called oxy-haemoglobin, of a bright scarlet colour, while haemoglobin deprived of oxygen, "reduced haemo-