211 TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, ETC. theine so as to form a salt is Tannic Acid. There is a small amount of vegetable albumen, and the rest of the solids con- sist of vegetable fibre or cellulose, wax, resin, dextrin, &c, along with a volatile oil which may be called Tea Oil. It is this last which produces headache and giddiness in those who handle tea in bulk. The ash left on igniting tea is rather im- portant, since the salts are mostly soluble, and consist of com- pounds of iron, manganese, and soda. Tea is best prepared in a previously-heated teapot by in- fusion with water, boiling to coagulate the small amount of vegetable albumen present, as well as to extract as much theine as possible in a short time. Black tea yields to a first infusion from 29 to 45 per cent of its weight, average 38 per cent; green tea, which is a more active stimulant, from 40 to 48 per cent, average 43 per cent; or, dealing with the soluble matters alone, y of these are taken up at the first infusion. Good tea should yield at least one-third of its weight in this way, and the Society of Public Analysts take 30 per cent as their minimum standard. All the salts and nearly half (47 per cent) of the nitrogenous substances pass into the infusion, this amount being increased by the presence of soda in the water. The object of infusing tea at all is to extract the Theine, and leave the Tannin which is combined with it. Tannin is precipitated by gelatin and albumens, but in tea it is combined with the theine, and this combination has first to be broken up. Under these circumstances it is impossible to get an infusion free from tannin, and all that is aimed at is to reduce the quantity of this substance to a minimum. On this point the quality of the tea is an important consideration, certain teas being richer in tannin than others; the quality of the water used, soft or hard, plays an important part; and generally it may be said that any given tea must be treated on its own merits, requiring a certain quality of water and a certain time of infusion to give the best results, and the precise combination must be worked out by trial. The experiments of Dr. Hale White (Brit. Med. Jour., August 1889) are exceedingly instruc- tive on this point. The figures below show the percentage of tannin obtained from representative teas:— Finest Assam. Finest China @ 5/. Common Congou. 3 minutes' infusion, .. 15 do. do. 11-30 17-73 7-77 7-97 9-37 11-15