41 SUGARS. is often used to detect glucose in diabetic urine, since 100 part s by weight of carbonic acid gas evolved correspond to 204'54 parts of sugar. . The other test feature of glucose is the property which it pos- sesses of "reducing", or depriving of oxygen, certain metallic oxides in alkaline solutions. When caustic potash is added to copper sulphate and the solution boiled, a black oxide of copper is produced; but if glucose be added to begin with, there will be obtained an orange oxide containing only half the oxygen, showing that the black oxide has been reduced by the glucose. Cane-sugar does not show this result unless upon long-con- tinued boiling. . There is another kind of fermentation familiar to all m the souring of milk. In this case it is the lactose or milk-sugar which is acted on by a bacillus present in the air, which con- verts it into lactic acid. A similar change takes place in the stomach; but in dyspepsia this may be followed up by another fermentation, whereby the lactic acid may be further decom- posed into butyric acid and carbonic acid gas. It is this butyric-acid fermentation which chiefly gives rise to " wind " in the stomach. The souring of beer presents another familiar example of one fermentation succeeding another. Beer is produced by an alcoholic ferment, yeast, acting upon maltose; but by the action of an aerial bacillus that alcohol is further changed into acetic acid. Similarly the lactic fermentation in and about the teeth prepares the way for caries. The whole subject of fermentation will be dealt with later on, under the several heads of alcohol, milk, &c. SUMMAEY. 1. The term sugar com prises sucroses and glucoses. 2. Sucroses include cane-sugar, malt-sugar, and milk-sugar. 3. Glucoses comprise dextrose and levuloae. 4. Cane-sugar becomes "invert sugar", a mixture of glucoses, on adding acids or on long-continued boiling. 5. All carbohydrate become dextrose in the course of digestion. <i. Sugar is fermentable by various fungi.