FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 192 pear should melt in the mouth like a peach. They do not keep so well as apples, and are best eaten raw; but they may be preserved in syrup, or sliced and dried in the sun or in ovens, a practice very common in France. Perry is pear-wine, prepared like cider, and similar in properties. The Quince is harder than the above, and is rarely eaten raw. Stewed with sugar it may be eaten alone or used to flavour apple-pies. Quince marmalade is often made from it, and the seeds are so rich in mucilaginous substances that they convert from 40 to 50 times their own weight of water into a syrup. Like apples and pears they may be fermented. To this class also belongs the Medlar, which is very hard even when ripe, and is thus " bletted ", i.e. allowed to decay, so as to soften its tough pulp. Oranges and all the other members of the citron family are characterized by an abundance of free citric acid, notably so in the lemon and lime. Since the proportion of water in these is high, they have little nutritive power, being chiefly used for allaying thirst, and especially useful for that purpose in febrile disorders; but their outstanding virtues are their antiscorbutic properties. There are several varieties of sweet orange, dis- tinguished by shape, thickness of rind, colour of pulp, absence of seeds, and so on. These are eaten raw, and it is matter of congratulation, since all these are imported often from afar, that no fruits stand packing so well. Bitter oranges are greatly used for making marmalade, while the rind, rich in oil of orange, is dried and candied, and then known as orange-peel. Besides its use in cakes, puddings, and confectionery, orange-peel is a useful stomachic. The white portion underneath the rind is very indigestible, consisting almost entirely of cellulose, and contains a bitter principle, so that when oranges or lemons are wanted for flavouring, as in Kussian tea or lemonade, the juice alone should be used or the white should be removed, leaving the yellow outer rind with its store of essential oils. Small unripe oranges, known as orange berries, are used in making curacoa. Lemons resemble oranges but are much more acid, containing as much as 7 to 8 per cent of citric acid, besides malic acid, sugar, and nitrogenous substances. They are therefore all the more valuable for allaying thirst, and for imparting pungency and flavour to tasteless fluids, such as rice and barley-water. Lemonade is made by adding a pint of boiling water to a sliced lemon and an ounce of white sugar, and digesting till