75 ABSORPTION. If brine be heated so as to expel some of its water, crystals of salt appear, and most solutions yield crystals on evapo- rating. Starch, glue, and other substances, however, do not form crystals at all, but set into a paste or jelly; these arc called Colloid or glue-like substances, as distinguished from Crystalloids or crystal-formers. Albumen is a colloid sub- stance, and, like the rest of them, diffuses with difficult}', so that the apparatus already mentioned may be used for separ- ating colloids from crystalloids when existing together in solution, for the latter are readily diffusible. This process is called dialysis, and is often used in detecting cases of poisoning. The contents of the stomach are transferred to the dialyser, and then floated on water, when any arsenic, strychnine, or other crystalloid poison diffuses into the water, leaving the colloid contents of the stomach behind. As the above figures show, rate of diffusion depends on the nature of the fluids, acids diffusing most rapidly; it is affected by heat and degree of concentration: hot dilute solutions diffuse easily, concentrated solution not so quickly. Another physical force concerned in absorption is capillary attraction, which is well seen by the action of loaf-sugar upon tea. This is concerned, not so much with digestion, as with assimilation, for the tissues are in this way soaked in lymph. Of greater importance is Filtration, through membrane rela- tively coarsely porous, owing either to pressure from above or suction from beneath. The intestine is a muscular tube, and every time a peristaltic wave passes along the bowel its contents are pressed through the porous walls, especially those of the villi. Of negative filtration, or filtration by suction, an example is supplied by the villi themselves. They, too, have strands of muscle fibre, and when they relax they exercise a sucking action upon the fluid in the bowel. Absorption may take place wherever a free mucous surface occurs; thus potassium cyanide, although not swallowed, may be absorbed by the mouth. The stomach readily absorbs water, and salts soluble in water, sugars, peptones, most poisons, and alcoholic solutions; and, of course, absorption is most rapid when these are taken into an empty stomach. The peculiar structure of the intestine fits it for being the great seat of digestion and absorption, and in this respect the several parts of the digestive tract may be thus arranged in order of merit: small intestine, large intestine, stomach, mouth, pharynx, gullet.