WATER. 49 up to a certain point, then passes off, leaving the water clear as at first. On applying the soap test to a portion, it gives unmistakable signs of hardness, pointing to the presence in the solution of some salt of lime. The carbonate of lime which was at first produced is insoluble in water, but soluble in water containing carbonic acid gas, forming what might be called a bicarbonate of lime. Since this is the case, it is readily seen that if the carbonic acid gas were removed or otherwise " engaged ", the lime salt would again show itself as a white powder. That this is really correct may be shown by boiling a little of this artificial hard water so as to expel the carbonic acid gas; the milkiness reappears as a deposit of white carbonate of lime. This is one way of softening hard water, and the carbonate of lime is deposited as a "fur" on the interior of kettles and other vessels, where its nature may be detected by effervescence on adding vinegar or any other acid. There is, however, another process for softening hard water —Dr. Clarke's process,—in which, instead of expelling the carbonic acid as above, more lime is added, as quicklime or lime-water. The added lime " engages" the extra carbonic acid gas, and so not only comes down itself as carbonate of lime, but allows the original carbonate to come down also. Hardness which can be removed by these methods is called temporary hardness, and it occurs in all cases where water is derived from calcareous rocks, such as chalk or limestone. Although these substances are insoluble in water, they are dissolved by water containing carbonic acid gas, as rain-water always does, and in limestone districts the water is often so highly charged with this gas as to present a sparkling appear- ance. This same brilliancy may be due to a very different cause, the carbonic acid being derived from decomposing animal matter, and such a water would be dangerous in the highest degree. When water percolates through rocks con- taining gypsum or sulphate of lime, part of the sulphate is dissolved and the water becomes hard; but since hardness due to sulphates cannot be removed by the foregoing methods, it is called permanent hardness. Hardness may be caused by magnesia or any of the alkaline earths, as well as lime. On boiling water the first effect of the heat is to expel all dissolved gases. Water always contains dissolved air, and sometimes carbonic acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, and other gases, as in the sulphur springs of Harrogate It is from the ( M 173 ) D