FOOD AND DIET. 245 consumption. When the salt is applied in the form of a brine, as in pickling beef, there is a considerable loss of substance, since albuminous bodies are rather soluble in salt solutions; and it has been suggested that this wasted matter should be recovered from brine by the process of dialysis, since proteids are of the class of substances called colloid. Smoking is another form of curing, applied to bacon and fish; the germi- cide agents in this are the carbolic and other empyreumatic vapours of a tarry order which penetrate the meat, at the same time partially drying it. Salted and smoked meats are ren- dered more indigestible by the process, and should rather be taken as occasional dainties than as staple foods. The making of mince for pies illustrates the preservative action of the essential oils of plants, and allusion has already been made to the antiseptic effect of cinnamon more especially in this respect. These oils played a conspicuous part in embalming, and for the same reason. 4. Heat or Cold.—Immense quantities of meat come from as far away as New Zealand, preserved by being frozen and kept in refrigerating chambers en route, and to the supplies of butcher- meat shipped in this way must now be added butter and cheese. Cold alone is not enough to kill disease germs, they must be subjected to at least the heat of boiling water, and the two processes are generally combined, heat being first applied and then cold. Food, especially animal food, is powerfully affected by disease of animals, and in certain diseases the flesh is con- demned unconditionally. These are—cattle plague, epizootic pneumonia, sheep-pox, acute rheumatism, acute specific diseases such as pig-typhus or scarlatina, blood-poisoning, erysipelas, black quarter, anthrax, peritonitis, and the presence of trichinae and cysticerci. In the case of flukes in the liver (sheep rot), and ccenuri in the brains of sheep causing "staggers", these parts only need be destroyed. To these must now be added tuberculosis even in mild forms, since the recent report of the Royal Commission shows that one cannot be too cautious in using tuberculous meat, thus confirming the decision of the Glasgow inquiry. As already shown, milk from a tuberculous animal is not infected unless the disease has ex- tended to the udders, milk being a true secretion. Meat is to be looked upon with suspicion when infested with parasites—tape-worm is confined to the intestines and removed with the offal,—or when the animal has been suffering