FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 94 own nourishment, but this is derived not directly from the blood flowing through them, but from smaller vessels arising either in themselves or a neighbouring artery. From a physiological standpoint, the most important coats are the elastic and muscular layers. By reason of the former, arteries yield to the wave generated by the heart-beat, and thus show the phenomena of the Pulse, best seen when the artery passes over resisting surface, as at the wrist. Their muscle fibres are of the involuntary sort, and have a great deal to do with the regu- lation of the blood supply. When they contract, the calibre or bore of the vessel is dimin- ished, so that less blood than usual passes and the part be- comes pale. On the other hand, when they are relaxed, as by hot water, the bore of the vessel is increased, more blood flows, and the part in question "blushes". These muscles are not under the con- trol of the will, like those of the limbs, but are controlled by nerve-fibres derived from the sympathetic system, one ing; m, middle ' ■ . j> _ ■ „__• ' i .1 „m muscular and elastic coat, thick in the artery. Set tending tO Contract them much thinner in the vein; a, outer coat of j _ 4r „ i .1. areolar tissue (magnified 350 diameters). and SO IiarrOW the VeSSel, the other set, or vaso-dilators, having the opposite effect. These vaso-motor nerves play a most important part in regulating bodily heat, as will be seen when we come to consider the functions of the skin. The little branches given off by an artery gradually drop their several coats one by one, till at last there is left nothing but the innermost lining of endothelium. The vessel is now called a Capillary, from the Latin capillus, a hair, but it must not be supposed that a capillary is nearly so thick as a hair. Some of them are so fine that a single red corpuscle, inch in diameter, can scarcely make its way through them, while blood in the capillaries may be in contact with the tissues for Fig. 22.—Transverse Section through a Small Artery and Vein.