105 RESPIRATION. lungs are dilated with air upon the concertina principle, air rushing in through the windpipe to equalize the air-pressure in the lung, which, owing to chest expansion, would otherwise be less than the pressure of the air outside. Eelaxation of the lungs is due solely to their elasticity, the muscles being in the resting phase. A breath thus consists of an inspiration followed by an expiration, and these recur at regular intervals at the rate of about 18 per minute, or one to every four heart-beats. The amount of air taken in at each inspiration is not great, 15 to 20 cubic inches, and this is called the tidal air. If after an ordinary expiration an attempt be made to empty the lungs there will be expelled 100 cubic inches of reserve air, but there will still remain in the lungs, beyond muscular control, another 100 inches of residual air. On the other hand, by an effort of will, after an ordinary inspiration another 100 inches of air can be inhaled, and this is called conyplemental air. These may be exhibited in tabular form thus:— 100 in. complemental These three constitute the " respiratory capacity " of the individual. The respiratory capacity increases with the body-weight up to 11 \ stones in the male, then diminishes at the rate of one cubic inch per pound; it increases with age up to 30 or 35, then diminishes about 1^ inch per annum. It is greatly increased by the use of dumb-bells and such exercises as swimming, which specially develop the chest, and is proportionately diminished by stooping, tight clothing, &c. In order to form an idea of the chemistry of respiration we have to examine the air inspired and expired, and also the blood in the pulmonary arteries and veins. The dark "venous" blood going to the lungs comes back bright scarlet, with its haemoglobin oxidized, and the blood-gases richer in oxygen and poorer in carbonic acid. When the expired air is compared with that inhaled, corresponding changes are observed. Atmo- spheric air contains about 79 per cent of nitrogen and 21 per cent of oxygen, together with a very small amount of carbonic acid gas, "04 per cent, and water vapour, which, like the temperature, depends on the weather. The air expired, how- ever, is saturated with moisture nearly at blood-heat, has lost oxygen and gained carbonic acid, while the nitrogen is un- changed, as shown below:— 20-25 „ tidal - - - 100 „ reserve 100 „ residual - -