50 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. air dissolved in water that fish get their supplies of oxygen, not from the oxygen chemically combined in the water; and a fish placed in boiled water dies of suffocation, that is, of oxygen-starvation. After most of the air has been expelled, the further effect of heat is to turn the water into steam, but the conversion is not instantaneous. Large bubbles of steam collect at the bottom of the pan, but collapse without reaching the top. By and by they manage to rise higher and higher, showing that the temperature of the water is almost that of steam, and they finally come to the top and burst there. _ The water is now boiling, and no amount of further heating in an open pan will make it any hotter; it will make the ebullition more violent, since the steam is produced in greater quantities, but while this result is highly desirable in a locomotive boiler, kitchen utensils are designed for quite another purpose. Any heat beyond that required to keep the water simmering, i.e. just boiling and no more, is simply wasted, and in the great majority of culinary operations even that degree of heat is not needed. The boiling-point of water is 100° Centigrade (212 F.), but it is affected by the density of the water, sea-water requiring a higher temperature. It is also affected very much by atmos- pheric pressure, rising when the pressure increases and falling when it is lowered. In the vacuum-pan of the sugar-refineries the pressure is lowered below that of the atmosphere, and thus sugar solutions can be evaporated at a temperature below that at which non-crystalline sugar forms. Conversely, when a cook wishes water to reach a higher boiling-point than usual, he employs a " digester ", a pot the lid of which can be fastened down so as to raise the pressure within, and as a result the boiling-point. On the top of a hill water boils, i.e. passes into steam, much below the usual boiling-point. Piazzi Smyth tells how on the top of the peak of Teneriffe, after some vain attempts to boil potatoes leaving them as hard as ever, the cook of the party came to the conclusion that the potatoes were bewitched, or that the kettle, which Avas a new one, refused to cook them. Boiling is an important method of purifying a suspected water, since almost all germs of disease likely to be found in water are killed by the application of boiling heat. The following is a concise view of the various proximate principles in food-stuffs, showing their various uses in the body:—