170 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. Millet, Sorghum, Darra, See., arc names given to various grasses of the millet order, and they get the reputation of being the earliest grain used in bread-making. It is richer than rice, and is extensively used in West Africa, Algiers, and the south of Europe, while in some parts of India and China it displaces every other grain. Millet has the further advan- tage of keeping well. Buckwheat, in spite of its name, is not a cereal at all, but belongs to the Polygonaceae, the order which includes the dock, sorrel, and knot-grass. Like rice it is poor in proteid and fat, but it contains much indigestible cellulose. In this country it is generally used for feeding pheasants, but in France, especially Brittany, under the name of "ble noir ", it makes a fairly nutritious and palatable bread, and in the United States and Holland it is baked into cakes. SUMMAEY. 1. Oats rank with wheat in abundance of proteids, and are the richest, of the cereals in fats and salts. 2. In the form of oatmeal jelly they are the most readily as- similable of vegetable foods. 3. Barley is the grain chiefly used for malting. It is nearly as nutritious as wheat, especially in the form of pot-barley. 4. Bice is the poorest of all the cereals, containing little else than starch. Lesson 32.—LEGUMES. Legumes or pod-bearing plants head the vegetable kingdom in respect of richness in nitrogenous substances, the chief proximate principle in them being Legumin, or vegetable casein. They also contain a. good deal of starch, and are richer in salts than the cereals, especially in potash and lime, though poorer than these in magnesia and phosphates. Combined with the legumin there is a good deal of sulphur and phos- phorus, especially in beans and peas, and the former forms within the body sulphuretted hydrogen and similar compounds, so that a leguminous diet tends to cause flatulence. In point of actual nutriment, however, lentils contain twice as much as the same weight of wheat. They are deficient in fats, a