12 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. combustion, it will be well to repeat a classical experiment. Take a lighted candle and cover it with a large glass jar over water, so that no air gets in. The glass becomes dim, owing to the formation of water out of the hydrogen in the wax; then the candle burns feebly, smokes, goes out. The lime- water test applied to the contents of the jar will show that carbonic acid gas has been formed, and a lighted taper thrust into the jar is extinguished. Since this does not occur in ordinary air, it is clear that the composition of the air has somehow been altered by the burning of the candle. This may be better tested by employing phosphorus, a substance which burns more vigorously than a candle, and which has the further ad- vantage of producing a white solid sub- stance instead of invisible fumes. When phosphorus is burned over water under a stoppered bell-jar, the combustion is rapid and brilliant; dense white fumes fill the jar, and the latter be- comes warm, a witness of the amount ^ of heat evolved. In a few minutes, however, the fumes settle down and Fig. 1.—Preparation of Nitrogen, dissolve in the water, leaving the jar apparently empty, and the water has risen inside the jar to the extent of one-fifth, showing that one-fifth of the air has somehow been removed. If now a lighted taper be inserted, it is extinguished, as in the case of the candle, but the lime-water test gives no residt. Add to the water in the bell-jar a few drops of blue-litmus solution: it reddens. Taste a little of the water: it is pretty sour. Substances which redden blue litmus and have a sour taste are called Acids, and this particular acid is phosphoric acid, and it forms a set of compounds called phosphates. The air then consists chiefly of two gases, one of which supports combustion, while the other, the gas left in the jar, does not. This latter gas, which forms four-fifths of the bulk of air, has neither colour, taste, nor smell, will neither support combustion nor burn itself, and it is called Nitrogen. The gas which has been used up in burning the phosphorus forms one-fifth of the air, is also without colour, taste, or smell, and it is called Oxygen. It is with the oxygen of the air that we have chiefly to deal, for the nitrogen seems to be useful chiefly in diluting the oxygen.