FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 1G8 supplied than oatmeal jelly. To make it, take a good handful of oatmeal, and add to it in a basin hot water till rather thin, then allow it to stand half an hour. Decant or strain off the supernatant liquid, and boil with a little salt till it forma a jelly on cooling. For very weak patients a dessert-spoonful every half-hour is quite sufficient, and a touch of treacle may be added to keep the bowels open, or the jelly may be flavoured by a little lemon-juice. Barley resembles wheat closely, but differs from it in ha\ in- more salts, fat, and cellulose, but less proteid and carbohydrate substances. The proteids resemble those of oats in this respect that they do not form gluten on addition of water, but remain soluble in the state of albumose, albumen, and globulins. On this account it is not made into bread, the so-called barley-bread being made from a mixture of barley-meal and wheaten flour. This bread is said to be rather laxative; it is certainly heavier and less digestible than wheaten bread, and the same may be said of barley-cakes. The ash of barley is especially rich in phosphates and iron, and on that account barley is often given to children and others in the form of soup or barley jellies. The nutritious character of barley is evidenced by its extensive use in fattening cattle; among the Greeks it formed the staple training food for athletes, while some place barley before all other grains for the purpose of restoring strength. The whole grain is ground to form barley-meal; when stripped of the husk and roughly ground it is called pot-barley, Scotch barley, or milled barley; when the grains are further rounded and polished they form pearl- barley. Pot-barley is more nutritious than pearl-barley, from the fact that the gluten cells are near the surface. In the form of barley-broth and -pudding it forms a common article of diet. Barley-water, made from pearl-barley, is often added to cows' milk in infant feeding instead of lime-water, and with much better results. The process of converting bai ley into malt will be dealt with in describing alcoholic fermentation. Rye is not much used in this country except for malting, but in the east of Europe it forms the staple food and affords as much nutriment as wheat. Its proteid substances resemble those of wheat in forming a sort of gluten on adding water, and it can thus be baked into bread. The grain has a peculiar odour and is brown outside-, so that rye bread is "black" bread. It is heavy and indigestible, sourish in taste, and very apt to cause diarrhoea to those unaccustomed to it, but this passes off