FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 200 with shallots, vinegar, salt, and pepper. The ripe fruit is one of the best of nuts, and on bruising it yields an oil which is also used as food. The leading British nut is the Hazel, of which Cobs and Filberts are cultivated varieties. A great many nuts, valued at £100,000 in all, are imported annually from Spain and other countries, chiefly for the sake of their oil. Barcelona nuts are kiln-dried before export, and so keep indefinitely; when this is not done, hazel-nuts lose their agreeable flavour on keeping, and tend to become rancid unless kept in air-tight vessels. Cocoa-nuts are used both for the food and drink obtained from them. The nuts are eaten both ripe and unripe by natives of the tropics, and each shell has at one end three holes, only one of which can be pierced so as to get at the " milk " inside. The resemblance of this end to a monkey's face is said to have given this nut its name, coco meaning a monkey. The white or kernel generally consists of nitrogenous material, but is indigestible in the highest degree. It contains fully 70 per cent of cocoa-nut oil or cocoa-butter, used not only for lighting and lubricating purposes, but also as a food. This contains from 60 to 70 per cent of fat, and from 23 to 25 per cent of organic matter. It is white in colour, has an agreeable taste, and is more digestible than dairy butter owing to its freedom from acid. It is suitable for cooking, and poor people prefer it for all purposes to margarine, while it is about half the price of ordinary butter in London. The process of making cocoa-nut butter was discovered by Dr. Schlinck, and it is now manufactured from cocoa-nut marrow by a Mannheim firm. SUMMARY. 1. With few exceptions, fruits are not so much food-stuffs as refrigerants and antiscorbutics or blood-purifiers. 2. They all contain sugars, with a varying amount of free acid, tartaric, citric, or malic. 3. Plantains, dates, and figs are rich in sugary ami starchy sub- stances, and form the staple food of large populations. 4. Of home fruits the grape alone can be ranked as a food-stuff, especially in the form of raisins, on account of its amount of sugar. 5. Nuts are used either raw as food or for the sake of the oil expressed from them. (J. Practically, the only fruit oils used as food are olive-oil and cocoa-nut oil, the latter a solid oil like butter.