FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 18 The production of heat from the slow combustion of food within the body is a good example of the transformation of energy. Everybody knows George Stephenson's statement that his train was driven, not so much by a canny Newcastle driver, as by the heat and light of the sun. Plants store up this solar energy in the form of chemical energy, and when this is liberated part of it always takes the form of heat; indeed, in a person resting it may be said that all the chemical energy of the food and air appears internally as heat. Just as Stephenson utilized the sunlight "bottled" in coal to drive his engine, so we utilize the sunlight bottled in vegetables— and we are all vegetarians in the end—to produce mechanical work. Chemical energy, however, cannot be transformed into mechanical work without heat being produced at the same time, and an engineer designs and works his engine so as to get the maximum of work and the minimum of heat. After all his pains the very best steam-engine gives out in the form of work only } of the chemical energy of the fuel, the remain- ing | being dissipated as heat; while the body, as already mentioned, produces i as work and j as heat. Thus, fuel for fuel, the body generates nearly twice as much as the best steam-engine, and the calorimetrical results quoted above may be taken as indicating the relative values of foods, not merely as heat-givers but as work-producers. Looking to the high position which fat occupies on the list, and 100 parts of fat = 243 of dry flesh, it will readily appear that the late Emperor William was on sound physiological ground when he added to the daily rations of his soldiers in the Franco-German war half a pound of fat bacon per head. Speaking in modern scientific language, the body may be described as an instru- ment transforming the stored-up potential energy of plants and other food materials into kinetic energy as seen in heat and mechanical work. What we have learned:— 1. "When hydrogen is oxidized water is formed. 2. In all direct chemical union heat is evolved. 3. The intensity of heat is measured in degrees by a thermometer. 4. The amount of heat is measured in calories by a calorimeter. 5. The fuel-value of a food-stuff depends on the quantity of un- consumed carbon or hydrogen in it. 6. All foods contain at least one of these in available form, so that all foods are heat-givers.