CARBOHYDRATES. STARCH. 37 of starch into sugar. This action of ptyalin resembles thai of diastase or extract of malt, hence it is called a diastatic or amylotic ferment, from its power of altering starch. As will be seen later on, ptyalin is not the only diastatic ferment m digestion If the rice experiment be tried, using raw rice, the action of the saliva will be very much retarded; in the case of raw starch the ferment acts only after two or three hours, whereas upon boiled starch it acts in as many minutes, especially in presence of a little salt. This shows, by the way, the necessity of cooking farinaceous foods, and also the im- portance of giving food copious salivation, say to the extent of the Gladstonian thirty bites. Dextrin, or British gum, is now generally used for adhesive purposes instead of the more expensive gum arable This latter is a natural gum, and similar substances are found in all vegetable food-stuffs. Composed of the same elements as starch, and chemically identical with it, is the very important substance Cellulose which constitutes the bulk of vegetable fibre. Cotton-wool may be taken as almost pure cellulose, and paper, which is just felted vegetable fibre, is another familiar example. When a plant is young its cellulose can be digested readily by herbivorous animals, and to a slight extent by man; but as the plant grows older the cellulose becomes more woody in structure, and often gets enveloped in resinous material, so that it is as indigestible as paper or saw-dust. Herbivorous animals have a preparatory stomach specially constructed for the digestion of herbs, a process in which fermentation bulks very largely; in the absence of such special natural appliances man has to fall back on the resources of chemistry. Although the conversion of woody fibre into sugar is familiar to every- one in the ripening of fruit, and is so far imitated by the brewer in the process of malting, still the formation of sugar out of cotton-wool, linen rags, and paper, to say nothing of saw-dust, is at present a chemical curiosity, and men are still content to get their cellulose at second hand in the shape of mutton and beef. (Uycogen, or liver starch, will be considered in the lesson on the Liver. SUMMARY. 1. Carbohydrates contain carbon, hydrogen, oxygen ; the last two in the proportion to form water.