11 OXYGEN AND COMBUSTION. contained carbon. This method may be applied to various substances, such as a taper or candle, oils and. fats of various kinds, coal-gas, a splinter, of wood, or a bit of meat, and in each case there will be the same result—the formation of carbonic acid gas and water, proving that all these substances are com- pounds, containing at least two elements, one of them carbon, ■ the other hydrogen. Now if we breathe into a cold dry tumbler, a dimness forms on the glass, as in the case of the burning candle, and if the tumbler be shaken up with lime-water a milkiness appears as before. It would thus seem that breath contains products of combustion, a combustion going on within the body, for ordi- nary air behaves quite differently. This suspicion turns out to be well founded; although there is neither smoke nor flame there is heat, animal heat, and in this light the body may be regarded as a furnace with the mouth for one of its chim- neys. But a furnace requires fuel, and the human furnace receives its fuel in the shape of food, and indeed the chief reason why food is taken at all is not so much to repair bodily waste as to maintain animal heat, four-fifths of the food being devoted to this object. The body, in short, is an engine, and like other engines produces heat and work, but it differs from all other engines in this important respect—that it is con- tinuously self-repairing as well as self-adjusting, and obtains material for repairs from the fuel itself. What we have learned:— 1. All food-stuffs contain water. 2. They all contain carbon and hydrogen. 3. When burned in air they form carbonic acid gas and water, and liberate heat. 4. The breath contains these same products of combustion. 5. The body is thus a heat-producing apparatus. 6. The body-fuel is food. 7. Cooking often effects chemical changes upon food. Lesson 2.—OXYGEN AND COMBUSTION. Combustion.—The human body may thus be regarded as an engine, the furnace of which is supplied with food by way of fuel. To understand more clearly what is meant by