FOOD ACCESSORIES. 207 heart and blood-vessels, producing thus a general stimulation of the faculties, mental as well as bodily. Carminatives are thus one form of diffusible general stimulants. Cinnamon is another aromatic. It is the bark of a small tree, and has been used from the remotest antiquity; it is mentioned in Exodus xxx. as one of the ingredients of the incense used in the Tabernacle service. The finest cinnamon comes from Ceylon, and the fragrance, especially in the thin- nest pieces of cinnamon stick, is delightful, recalling the "spicy breezes that float o'er Ceylon's isle ", while its taste is pungent and aromatic. Medicinally it is a tonic, stomachic, and car- minative, owing its virtue to oil of cinnamon, and it has quite recently been extolled to the skies for its action as a disinfec- tant and germicide, while there may be some support for the statement that the comparative immunity from certain disease enjoyed by our forefathers was largely clue their habit of using mulled wines and similar beverages, in the preparation of which cinnamon played a leading part. Nutmegs and Mace are derived from the same plant, mace being the aril or investing membrane of the nut. Nutmeg is a stimulant and carminative, but in large doses it is narcotic, causing stupefaction and delirium, and should therefore not be taken in cases of brain disorder. Mace has very similar pro- perties, having a peculiar strong smell and taste, due to a fixed as well as a volatile oil. Cloves are the flower-buds of the plant, and derive their name from the French clou, a nail, owing to their shape. The buds are reddish at first, then deep brown, and are gathered and dried in the sun alone, or in the smoke of wood fires and then in the sun. About ^ or ^ of their weight consists of oil of cloves, and to this they owe their hot taste and characteristic smell, while medicinally they are used as stomach sedatives, to check nausea and griping after purgatives. Pimento, Jamaica Pepper, or Allspice, the fruit of a small West Indian tree, gets its last name because the aroma resembles that of a mixture of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Like cloves it is a carminative, and useful in preventing nausea and griping. Its properties are due to a volatile oil, oil of pimento, used like oil of cloves in cases of toothache, and obtained by distillation with water. It forms the spirit of allspice or allspice water of the shops. Caraway seeds are obtained from an umbelliferous plant. They act as carminatives and tonics, while oil of caraway is