226 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. Rum is the favourite nautical drink, though it is being dis- placed by coffee and cocoa, and no better proof of physiological ignorance and misplaced confidence could be obtained than that afforded by the " rush for rum " which characterized the great frost of 1895. A mixture of 2 parts of rum to 1 of glycerine is very valuable for sore throat and bronchial affection. Gin or Hollands is a corn-spirit flavoured with various sub- stances such as juniper berries, coriander seeds, &c. Since the grain is unmalted, the spirit must be freed from fusel-oil by redistillation, and thus prepared it has an alcoholic strength of from 49 to 57 per cent. Unlike the other spirits it is not coloured, and the presence of oil of juniper or any similar oils causes a milkiness when it is diluted with water, since these oils are insoluble in water. Oil of juniper acts on the kidneys like oil of turpentine, and so causes gin to increase the flow of urine. Gin is often sold sweetened by sugar. Of other spirits in use on the Continent and in the East, the following are the most common:— Arrack, containing 50 per cent of alcohol, is made from the fermented juice of the cocoa and other palms; cheaper forms from fermented rice mash. Kirsch or Kirschenwasser, as the name implies, is made from cherries or plums. Toddy is got from palm juice; Vodka, a Russian spirit, from potatoes. Spirits are also extracted from maize, maple, millet, and many other vegetable products. Liqueurs, in the French sense, comprise all spirituous drinks artificially formed, whether by fermentation and distillation like rum, kirsch, gin, or by flavouring spirits with aromatic substances so as to produce curacoa, anise, absinthe, &c. The English use of the name is confined to this latter class, and a liqueur may therefore be defined as spirit and some aromatic flavouring. Of these the best known is Absintlie, a spirit which in France takes the place of gin in England. It is a greenish liquid, containing, like most spirits, 50 per cent of alcohol, and having as its essential flavouring oil of wormwood, derived from the Artemisia Absinthium. There is generally 1£ per cent of sugar and about 2£ per cent of other essential oils, such as those of aniseed, angelica, cinnamon, cloves, and peppermint. As in the case of gin, these oils are precipitated on diluting the liqueur with water. Absinthe owes its green colour to vegetable green or chlorophyll, obtained from nettles, parsley, spinach, or other plants. The