FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 10 the product-of combustion of an invisible gas called Hydrogen, meaning "water-former". When the tumbler is covered and shaken up with a little lime-water inside, the latter is turned milky, revealing the presence of another product of combus- tion, a second gas, also invisible, but readily detected in this way; its name is Carbonic Acid Gas. Now let the whole of the bread be burned away on an iron plate, or, better, a piece of platinum foil, and there will be left a very small quantity of ash, about 2 per cent of the whole; this represents the mineral matter, not in the state in which it was originally present in the bread, but burned and altered in the process. Bread, then, is a mixture of flour and water; but the former is not a simple substance, but a compound, containing, among other things, carbon and hydrogen. Further than these we cannot get, since they are both elements, that is, they cannot be decomposed into still simpler substances. In toasting this bread we have also arrived at a simple method of chemical analysis, applicable to most foods, namely, the detection of carbon as carbonic acid gas by lime-water, and the detection of hydrogen as water. The experiment may be varied by heating some sugar in a porcelain basin. The sugar melts, becomes darker in colour, and gives off vapours, some of which smell of burnt sugar or caramel, while others are inflammable; and there is left behind a mass of charcoal or carbon which is precisely like the carbon obtained from bread, except that it leaves no ash to speak of. Sugar is, therefore, another compound containing carbon and hydrogen. The existence of these elements in sugar may be proved with less trouble by pouring upon the sugar a little strong oil of vitriol or sulphuric acid. The sugar darkens and swells up, evolving steam and caramel-smelling vapours, and leaves a porous mass of charcoal as before. By means of sulphuric acid the presence of carbon especially may be revealed in many bodies; in all food-stuffs, in wood, paper, even in the human skin, for it also is charred by the strong acid. There is, however, another means of detecting the presence of carbon, and at the same time of estimating its amount. When a glass is inverted over burning charcoal, so as to capture the invisible products of combustion, there is among them carbonic acid gas, which turns lime-water milky. Carbon is the only el&mmt which on burning in air yields this gas, hence any substance which in burning produces car- bonic acid gas, as shown by the lime-water test, must have