71 THE LARGE INTESTINE. body is the alcoJwlic fermentation, produced by several leiiids of yeast. In this the starches and sugars of the food, already changed into dextrose, are further decomposed into alcohol, with evolution of carbonic acid gas. This fermentation does not occur in the body, unless owing to the presence of yeast in the intestines. The ferment invertin occurs in intestinal juice, and is supposed to be a product of other fungi introduced from without; it forms sucroses into " invert-sugar ". Man possesses little power of digesting cellulose or vegetable tissue, although its chemical composition is identical with that of starch. This power, however, is possessed in a high degree by herbivora, such as the ox, and they manage to digest half the cellulose eaten. This is accomplished by putrefactive fer- mentation, and to ensure this the digestive process is modified by the existence of a paunch or preliminary stomach, into which the half-chewed materials, well moistened with saliva, are introduced, there to putrefy and become converted into sugary matters before being returned to the mouth for final salivation in the process of " chewing the cud ". Fats are also acted upon by various organisms, becoming decomposed into their respective fatty acids and glycerin, and these again are decomposed still further, giving off car- bonic acid gas, hydrogen, and marsh-gas. Proteids, as far as they have escaped the action of the gastric and pancreatic juices, appear to be attacked by ferments '< p< Acid Alkaline Alkai Stomach \ Small Intestine Largi tyalin. — - Pefisin. —— ——• Alkaline Acid A Ikaline Alkaline Acid Mouth Stomach Small Intestine Large Intestine Ptyalin. Pepsin. Trypsin. „_._ Rennet. —..^Amylopsin. Bacteria. Fig. 12. existing in the intestine, which are capable of peptonizing them; and in all cases part of the peptone produced by pan- creatic digestion is further decomposed into various putrefac- tive bodies. The leucin formed under the action of the pan creatic juice is further decomposed, yielding ammonia, carbonic acid, and hydrogen, while the tyrosin yields indol and skatol, substances always found in the fseces along with phenol or carbolic acid, especially when absorption of fseces has been