FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 1G6 into a dough with water only as in ordinary ship hiscuits, or with butter, milk, sugar, &c, in the case of table biscuits. As the mime implies, they are well baked in the process; all their starch is converted into dextrin, so that they assume a yellow- colour and are fairly soluble in water. A perfect biscuit melts in the mouth, and many of the better infants' foods consist of little else than biscuit powder. Owing to the greater heat employed in their manufacture, biscuits contain less Avater than bread, and are therefore more nutritious bulk for bulk, J lb. biscuit being equivalent to 1 lb. bread. They also keep well, getting drier and consequently harder, and are thus well adapted for shipment. The disadvantages of biscuits are that, like wheat, they are deficient in fat and salts, and tend to pall on the appetite if eaten too constantly. When a piece of bread is slowly baked all the starch becomes changed into dextrin, and the piece becomes yellow, forming Rusk biscuit, so much used for children and invalids. The so- called " unleavened bread" of the Jews is merely water biscuit. SUMMARY. 1. Vegetable foods contain all the proximate principles, but are specially rich in carbohydrates. 2. Vegetable proteid occurs as legumin and gluten-forming sub- stances, and is not so easily digested or assimilated as animal proteid. 3. Vegetables are rich in potash and phosphates; animal food in soda and chlorides. 4. Their carbohydrates are chiefly in the form of starch, sugar, and gums, with often a consul ei-able quantity of indigestible cellu- lose. 5. The leading plants used as foods are cereals and legumes, the former containing gluten, the latter legumin. 6. "Wheat is the most nutritious and digestible of all the cereals, and is the grain chiefly used in making bread. 7. As a rule, gluten cells in a grain lie immediately below the bran, and are therefore liable to be removed by excessive grinding. 8. In making "leavened" or fermented bread, various changes occur, all in the direction of making the bread more easily digested. 9. In using baking-powders, except Neville's, various chemical residues are found in the bread, generally of an aperient nature. 10. Biscuit is an unfermented bread in which all, or nearly all, the starch has been dextrinized.