ALCOHOLIC DRINKS. 221 2. With the exception of cocoa, they are not food-stuffs at all, but nerve stimulants. 3. Tea and coffee contain tannin, which acts as a retarder of di- gestion, and all methods of preparation aim at extracting as little tannin as possible. 4. The active principle of tea and coffee is theine or caffeine, a nerve stimulant, but invigorating the muscles and the body gener- ally, and producing, if taken in excess, sleeplessness, nervousness, and palpitation. 0 5. Cocoa contains a large amount of fat and starch, and is, besides, consumed with the beverage, ranking thus as a high-class food-stuff. 6. Its alkaloid, theobromine, is present in smaller quantity than the theine of tea, and is, besides, a much feebler stimulant. 7. Chocolate is cocoa with the addition of sugar and vanilla or other flavouring. 8. Kola and coca have similar properties to tea and coffee. Lesson 39.—ALCOHOLIC DRINKS. Before discussing alcoholic beverages it may be advisable to learn something about Alcohol itself. Like sugar, alcohol is the name, not of a single substance, but of a class of substances produced by the partial oxidation of paraffins, but the only alcohols commonly met with are ethyl alcohol or spirits of wine, methyl alcohol or wood-spirit, and amyl alcohol or fusel- oil. Alcohols all consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and, as is seen by a spirit-lamp, burn away without residue, form- ing carbonic acid gas and water. They have a characteristic spirituous smell, mix in all proportions with water, evolving heat in the process, and from this mixture they can only be recovered with some difficulty, so great is their affinity for water. They are all lighter than water, the specific gravity of ethyl alcohol being -7938, water being 1, and it boils at 78-3° C. (water at 100°). The lowness of the boiling-point is often forgotten in recipes for dishes into which alcohol enters, although perhaps it is not a bad thing that complex Christmas dishes should thus unwittingly have three-quarters of their alcohol dissipated by heat. When water is added to alcohol the specific gravity of the mixture rises, and elaborate tables have been drawn up so as to enable an analyst to determine the alcoholic strength of a solution by the hydrometer alone.