19 NITROGEN AND ITS COMPOUNDS. 7. The potential energy of the food appears as heat and mechanical work, four-fifths and one-fifth respectively. Lesson 4.—NITROGEN AND ITS COMPOUNDS. ACIDS, ALKALIES, AND SALTS. In the second lesson it was shown that air is composed chiefly of two gases, oxygen and nitrogen, in the proportion of one to four. An easy method of obtaining nitrogen from the air is there described, and it consists simply in removing the oxygen by some easily oxidizable substance, such as phos- phorus.0 As thus obtained, nitrogen is a colourless, _ odourless gas, neither burning itself nor supporting combustion, appa- rently without any active properties. Although this element is so passive chemically, physiologically it is of prime impor- tance, since it is inseparably associated with life. Both in plants and animals every active tissue contains nitrogen. It is pre- sent in large quantity in the muscles and the brain, in the digestive juices and other secretions; even such passive struc- tures as the bones are nitrogenous, especially at the seat of growth. If nitrogen be withheld from the body the latter dies, although for a while the more indispensable organs draw upon the nitrogen in the system, thus producing a kind of tissue-consumption. Again, when extra work has to be done, the quantity of nitrogenous food taken must be increased in proportion, and that to a greater extent than with the other classes of food-stuffs. This necessary element must be supplied wholly in the form of nitrogenous food, for although the air inspired contains four-fifths of its bulk of nitrogen, the whole of this is returned unused, it being only the oxygen that is utilized in the lungs. Within the last year there has been obtained from atmos- pheric nitrogen a new element, also a gas, called Argon, but this forms only three-fourths per cent of the total air, and as its properties, chemical and physiological, are only now being investigated, it may be neglected for the present. _ Although nitrogen itself possesses slight chemical activity, there are two of its compounds which deserve special mention on account of their intensity of action, namely, Ammonia and Nitric Acid. The former is always obtained as a gas when any nitrogenous substance is heated in a closed air-space.