FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 206 with starch; of course if this addition has been carried to such an extent that turmeric has to be added to restore the yellow colour, and cayenne to restore pungency, this would be consi- dered as a distinct fraud. Its use in poulticing is well known, and a handy emetic is made by putting a table-spoonful of mustard in a tumbler of lukewarm water. Pepper occurs as the natural berries in their dried and shrivelled state, called peppercorns; also as black pepper, con- sisting of the whole seed ground, and as white pepper, ground after removal of the outer husk. The best pepper comes from Malabar. It owes its properties to a volatile oil containing piperin, and more irritating than oil of mustard. Long Pepper is a similar plant grown in Bengal and used for pickling. Cayenne Pepper is a most irritating substance, and is derived from the pods of the capsicum plant. The red pods themselves, called chillies, are familiar objects in pickles. Ginger is a root, or rather a rhizome or underground stem, and it thus contains starch. The young roots preserved in sugar constitute candied or preserved ginger, a good stomachic as well as a delicious sweetmeat. Ginger owes its properties to oil of ginger, and the solution of this in alcohol forms essence of ginger, much used in flavouring, and in making a spurious ginger-beer from syrup and aerated water. Real ginger-beer is produced by the fermentation of ginger roots and sugar with lemons, cream of tartar, &c, along with yeast in the usual way, then bottled before fermentation is complete. Ginger-wine is made like ginger-beer with the addition of spirit, and like all true wines it improves on keeping; cheap ginger-wines are flavoured with essence of ginger, or often with cayenne and other essences, including coal-tar products. The physiological action of ginger and the following sub- stances may be described as stimulating and carminative. The latter term is a convenient summary of various actions upon the digestive and vascular systems, generally due to the volatile and pungent oils in the substances employed. These rouse the stomach nerves, and so increase the activity of the circulation through that organ, exciting muscular contraction in it as well as modifying its contents. Possibly they relax the cardiac opening, at any rate eructation occurs, causing relief of stomach distension and its accompanying cramp and pain. At the same time, by the sympathetic ganglia of the digestive canal, and so through the spinal cord to the brain, a general effect is produced, and this is seen in a reflex action upon the