GREEN VEGETABLES. 183 portion of the leafy surface. Lastly, but only immediately before using, one small table-spoonful of mild French, or, better still, of Italian red-wine vinegar is to be sprinkled over all followed by another tossing of the salad. The Onion is used as a vegetable and condiment, the parts used being chiefly the bulb, and also the young leaves and the seedlings, known in Scotland as Syboes. The onions produced in warm countries are larger in size but milder in taste, and slightly laxative; a Spanish onion, raw and eaten like an apple, forms with a bit of bread a working-man's lunch. Ihe Shallot or Eschalot is a delicate onion with a stronger taste, but without the pungent smell of the onion. Chives is a British variety, of which the young leaves as well as the bulb are used in salads and for soups. The Welsh onion or Cibol is much larger than the chive, and is also valued for its tender leaves. The Leek belongs to the same class. The Onion family are very nutritious, containing a large quantity of nitrogenous materials and sugar in the colloid form, as well as a pungent oil rich in sulphur, to which they owe their pungency and smell. This oil is dissipated by boil- ing, so that boiled onions are much milder than the raw vegetable. The onion is valuable as a blood purifier; it stimu- lates the secretions, and, like celery, it is said to be useful for nervousness. The " personal equation " figures largely in the use of onions, as .some persons cannot tolerate them at all, while others eat them raw with apparent relish. Roasted and oiled they form a useful poultice for suppurations. Garlic belongs to the onion family of plants, but differs from onions in having a bulb composed of bulblets or "cloves", whereas the onion bulb is simple. In Spain it forms part of almost every dish, ranking thus along with pulse and grain as a sustainer of strength, owing to its richness in nitrogenous and carbonaceous substances. Used as a condiment it is a stimulant and tonic, and therefore promotes digestion; it also acts on the kidneys and skin, increasing their excretion of water, and indeed the excretions generally. . Like onions it is used externally for poulticing, and acts as a rubefacient. It is also used for intestinal worms, and a clove of garlic or a few drops of garlic juice put into the ear relieves some cases of deafness. The peculiar properties of garlic are due to oil of garlic, which consists chiefly of sulphide of allyl, a substance found also in all the onion family, as well as in water-cresses,