FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 9G from without due chiefly to muscular contraction. The pulse is entirely lost in the capillaries, and so is the direct impetus due to the heart-beat; but, per contra, especially in the limbs, muscular action is great, and it is here that the action of valves comes into play. A valve cannot cause a current, it merely controls the direction; but when a muscle contracts in the neighbourhood of a vein, the blood in the latter is compressed, and owing to the valves can flow in only one way, towards the heart. Hence in such places veins are situated among muscles, while arteries are deeply seated; hence also, valves are absent in places beyond the reach of muscular action, such as within the skull, the portal vein, and the large venous trunks con- veying blood to the heart from the body generally. When an artery is cut, the blood is bright scarlet, and flows in jerks owing to the pulse-beat, whereas the blood from a vein is darker in colour, and flows in a steady stream. Capil- lary bleeding, again, as seen in surface wounds, is an oozing of bright scarlet blood from no definite vessels. Obviously, arterial bleeding is to be stopped by pressure on the side next the heart, venous bleeding by pressure on the further side. The warmest blood in the body is that which has undergone most chemical change, namely, that from the liver, which has passed through two sets of capillaries ; the coldest is that in the superficial veins and the jugular vein, the blood of which is colder even than that returning aerated from the lungs; the purest is that from the kidney, although found in the veins of that organ, a result which is, of course, due to the excretory function of the kidney. The organ which maintains the circulation is the Heart, a twin force-pump, each half provided with collecting chamber and pump, with the necessary valves. Its size is about that of the closed fist, in shape it is roughly conical, and it lies in the chest about the middle line, the base extending across the breast-bone, while the apex touches the chest at the fifth rib. It is held in position solely by the great vessels which proceed from it to the body and lungs, and it is enclosed in a double sac, the pericardium, which invests it loosely. The base_ of the heart is generally covered with masses of fat, representing the remains of the thymus gland. The appearance and struc- ture of the heart may be studied from a sheep's or bullock's heart. In those the heart is seen to be divisible into two parts. Near the base is a loose chamber with collapsible walls,