RESPIRATION. 107 Strange to say, the number and depth of respirations have no influence on the amount of carbonic acid formed; they simply influence the carbonic acid already made by changing the reserve air. Active persons excrete more carbonic acid, and the effects of Exercise in this respect are most marked, as shown by the following table from Parkes:— AIR INSPIRED. Walking 3 miles an hour and carrying 118 lbs., ... Walking 4 miles an hour, ... Walking 6 miles an hour, ... Riding and trotting, Swimming, ... Treadmill, 4- 75 5- 00 7-00 4'05 4- 33 5- 50 Lying' }\a Sitting, 1"18 Standing, ... ... ... 1'33 Singing, ... ... ... 1"26 Walking 1 mile an hour, ... 1"90 Walking 2 miles an hour, ... 2-76 Walking 3 miles an hour, ... 3"23 Walking 3 miles an hour and carrying 34 lbs., ... ... 3"50 Unity being 480 cubic inches of air per minute. The growing period of life, distinguished by chemical and vital activity, is also marked by an increase of carbonic acid, the proportion in a child being double that of an adult, and this increases till maturity, after which it diminishes. Sunlight increases the amount of carbonic acid produced, showing that more oxygen is used. For the present purpose it is important to note the effects of Food. About an hour or so after a meal the carbonic acid is increased, owing to the increased chemical activity in the digestive system. Quality of food has a marked effect, car- bonaceous foods, i.e. carbohydrates, and notably fats, which contain 80 per cent of carbon, greatly increasing the amount of carbonic acid. It was the great liberation of energy in the shape of heat that gave to these foods their old name of heat- givers. SUMMAEY. 1". Respiration is exchange of gases between the blood and the air. 2. Tissue respiration occurs in the capillaries; respiration proper in the lungs. 3. The mechanism of respiration comprises air-cells in the lungs; conducting tubes, the bronchial tubes and windpipe; and respiratory muscles to expand the chest. 4. At each breath the lungs receive only about £ of their capacity, being already well filled with air.