FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 272 vegetables of this class would be to throw away the most useful part of their substance. Unless the water in which the)- are boiled is to be used as stock for soup, all such articles are bast cooked by Steaming, and this process has the further advantage of preserving the shape of the dish, vegetable or fish, thus admitting of its being sent up to the table in a more tempting guise. The heating agent here is vapour, and if the process be carried on in a closed vessel, vapour at high pressure and therefore more penetrating. Steaming is specially suited for rice, which has so few salts that it cannot afford to lose any, and for potatoes, which, apart from their starch, are valued for their potash compounds. To retain these, potatoes are boiled "in their jackets", since potatoes contain no albumen to coagu- late; steaming them not only saves loss of salts, but by bursting the starch grains more rapidly produces a fine " mealy " con- sistence. Occasionally the article to be cooked may "contain deleterious or otherwise undesirable substances; thus some of the salt in salted fish, such as ling, or the irritating greenish sap of new potatoes. In these cases the article should be soaked in moderately tepid water to extract these matters as fully as possible, and then transferred to fresh water and boiled de novo. Frying, properly understood, is boiling in oil, but as practised in this country is a dirty and wasteful combination of broiling, toasting, and basting. In dry frying, which is suitable for oily foods like herring, sausages, &c, a shallow frying-pan is used, and the food is either cooked in its own fat or with the aid of sufficient fat to prevent burning. Lard is about the worst form of fat for the purpose, since it is with great difficulty separated from substances fried in it, and imparts a disagree- able greasy taste and smell.. As the temperature rises, the fat begins to sputter, a sign that water is being expelled; at a higher temperature the fat itself begins to boil epiietly, and this is the correct stage for cooking; above this it smokes and is decomposed, forming various emjiyreumatic matters offensive alike to smell and taste. These stages in the cooking of oil succeed each other with great rapidity when there is but a thin layer of fat, as in dry frying, and hence this process is not only the most wasteful, but the most offensive of all, and fried articles are apt to be spoiled by impregnation with excess of fat, or by scorching and the presence of irritating products of fat decomposition. Wet frying, or sauteing, is propeidy boiling in oil, and demands