82 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. course. This portal circulation is found in all vertebrate animals, and owing to it the liver is placed in the vantage position of being able to intercept all food materials supplied to the blood, with the single exception of fats, which reach the blood as chyle via the lacteals and thoracic ducts. SUMMARY. 1. Nutriment reaches the tissues as lymph from the blood-vessels. 2. Unused lymph is drained off by special vessels called lym- phatics. 3. Lacteals are the lymphatics of the intestine, and their contents are milky only after meals, owing to the presence of fat emulsions. 4. Fats are digested in the intestine, leave it by the lacteals, and enter the blood by the thoracic duct. 5. Other foods leave the digestive tract by the blood-vessels, and are conveyed by the portal vein to the liver for further treatment. Lesson 17.—THE LIVER AND BILE. The Liver is the heaviest organ in the body, weighing from 50 to 60 ozs., or about of the body-weight. It lies on the right side below the diaphragm, to which it is attached along its upper surface, and it partly overlaps the stomach. The upper surface of the liver is smooth and even, but the lower presents several features. Prominent among these is the gall- bladder (see fig. 10), a pear-shaped reservoir for bile when that fluid is not required for digestive purposes. Entering the liver from below we distinguish the portal vein, conveying blood from the whole digestive tract; the hepatic artery carrying pure blood to the liver itself; and the hepatic veins, carrying blood from the liver to the great venous trunk which conveys it to the heart. From the two main lobes into which the liver is divided there come the right and left hepatic ducts conveying bile, and these are joined by the cystw duct from the gall-bladder, thus forming the common bile-duct which enters the bowel at the duodenum. The liver thus receives blood from two different sources—arterial blood from the heart by the hepatic artery, and venous blood from the stomach, intestines, and spleen by the portal vein. Out o. these materials it manufactures bile, which is excreted, and