FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 2G4 Urinary disorders, like gout, are generally betrayed by imperfect nitrogenous metabolism, since nearly all the nitro- genous waste of the body is removed by the kidneys in the form of urea. A common retrograde change is the increase of uric acid at the expense of urea, and since this tends to form salts insoluble in acid urine, the blood ought to be kept alka- line. This necessitates cutting down the proportion of animal food, with a corresponding increase in that of vegetables, assisted by alkaline drinks to diminish acidity. In Oxalwria, or poor man's gravel, on the other hand, the urinary deposits are not urates but oxalates, generally induced by excess of vegetable foods, especially those rich in oxalic acid, such as rhubarb, sorrel, tomatoes, cabbages, haricots, celery, with black tea. These should be left alone, and a good but light animal dietary substituted, while to promote alkalinity the stomach may be washed out every morning by a drink consisting of 2 to 3 ozs. of Carlsbad salts in ยง pint of hot water, and before retiring for the night, by a tumbler of alkaline water, not lime-water, since oxalate of lime is insoluble in water, but Vichy, Apollinaris, or the artificial Vichy already mentioned. For Brights Disease, where the structure of the kidney is affected, milk is ordered, because it is rich in albumen and fat, but in forms rapidly absorbed and therefore yielding a mini- mum of waste, besides being non-irritating and an active diuretic in virtue of the lactose it contains. It may be taken in small mouthfuls at a time to secure complete digestion, while the kidneys may be well washed by the free use of alkaline fluids or home-made unsugared lemonade, the citric acid of which becomes alkaline carbonates. A pleasant and nutritive beverage is the so-called " imperial drink ", made by adding 1 dram of cream of tartar and the juice of half a lemon to a pint of hot water and allowing it to cool. Chronic forms of Bright's disease call for a purely milk diet, preferably as skim-milk, and if diluted with one-third of hot water and salted in the proportion of 20 grains to the pint, this food will be found more digestible. Hot-milk soups may be given, flavoured, as for rheumatism, with celery or Spanish onion, or thickened with isinglass and flavoured with lemons; and if the patient tires of milk he may get toast, farinaceous foods, or vegetables in moderation. Nervous disorders are often due to deficient nourishment, letting the system "down" too far. Thus neuralgia demands a liberal diet with plenty of fat; paralysis, a full nutrition by