14 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. is in air a small quantity of carbonic acid gas, about 4 parts in 10,000. Since this gas is formed in the breath and by the combustion of coal, candles, coal-gas, &c, the proportion will be much greater in occupied and badly-ventilated rooms, and may rise to as much as 10 per 10,000. In a second jar of oxygen burn some sulphur in a spoon. The sulphur, which in ordinary air burns with a feeble blue flame, burns with greatly increased vigour, forming a suffocat- ing gas, accompanied by thin white fumes. On shaking up with litmus the solution becomes intensely red, showing that another acid has been formed by the union of sulphur and oxygen. It was at first supposed that oxygen behaved in this way with all elements, and so it got its name, "Oxygen", meaning acid-former. Some substances, such as carbon, sulphur, and phosphorus do form acids, but other substances give rise to products of quite a different nature. Whether acid or not, the products obtained when an element combines with oxygen, whether by burning or in any other way, are called Oxides, and the element is said to be oxidized. Thus there is carbon oxide, sulphur oxide, phosphorus oxide, and so on; but it so happens that these very elements can combine with oxygen in more than one proportion; thus, sulphur can use up either its own weight of oxygen or half as much again, forming sulphur dioxide and trioxide respectively. Carbon, again, burned in air or oxygen, combines with the latter in the proportions of 12 of carbon to 32 of oxygen, forming carbonic acid gas; but as there is another oxide of carbon containing only half that amount of oxygen, carbonic acid gas, which is more fully oxidized, is called carbon dioxide. A great many interesting experiments might be made with oxygen to demonstrate the properties of different oxides. Iron wire, which will not burn at all in air, burns like a pyrotechnic display in oxygen, forming a black oxide of iron, while zinc forms white oxide of zinc, and so on. The same process takes place in air, though more slowly, and often with the formation of a different oxide. Thus iron rusts in air, forming a brown oxide of iron, and many metals become tarnished with a film of oxide. In these cases the combustion is slow, as in the human body; heat is produced, and to the same extent, but it is unaccompanied by smoke or flame, its production is spread over weeks instead of minutes, and hence its amount passes unnoticed. The following experiment is of some value in connection with dietetics. If ordinary dark blood be shaken