FOOD AM) ITS FUNCTIONS. 32 5. Albumens liave the following functions:— (a) They are necessary for the repair of tissue waste. (6) They liberate a small amount of energy by oxidation, and thus control the utilization of oxygen within the system. (c) Under special circumstances, they may form fat, and even sugar. (d) In the process of digestion they become peptones. (e) Albuminous waste leaves the body as urea. 6. Gelatines fulfil the same functions, but less perfectly, and they tend to pass into the "circulating" rather than the "tissue" albumen, thus sparing tissue-consumption. 7. Extractives act upon the nervous system, and while not foods themselves, are essential as regulators of digestion and assimilation, especially of gelatines. Lesson 6.—FATS. The second great class of food-stuffs comprises the fats and oils. There is no distinction between fat and oil ; fat is solidified oil, as oil is melted fat. Moreover, in the living body both are in the liquid condition, and it is only after death that they solidify, forming tallow, suet, &c. In the body the oil is inclosed within cells, consisting of ordinary connective-tissue corpuscles, and a mass of such cells held together by a slight framework of connective tissue constitutes fntty or adipose tissue. The cell-walls are composed of albu- minous matter, and in order to release the oil within these walls must either be dissolved by such chemical agents as the digestive juices, or ruptured by heat and pressure; all three processes occur in the preliminary digestion of fats. Adipose tissue is widely distributed in the body, occurring chiefly under the skin, and around certain organs, notably the kidney, heart, and intestines. Since fat constitutes a storehouse of reserve material its bulk varies with the demands upon it, and in starvation it is greatly reduced. The chemistry of fats may be studied by examining tallow. If tallow be melted in a test-tube, and caustic soda or car- bonate of soda added, there is formed a white curdy mass, which separates readily on adding salt, and finally floats on a clear but thickish liquid. That liquid is glycerin, the curdy mass is a soap, and the fat is said to be saponified. The