228 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 3. It lias a great affinity for water, and therefore hardens animal tissue, acting as a preservative. 4. Spirits are produced by distilling starchy or sugary infusions, and contain generally 50 per cent of alcohol. 5. Liqueurs are spirits flavoured with vegetable essences. Lesson 40.—WINES. Wines may be described as fermented grape juice, either in its natural condition, or with the addition of alcohol to preserve it or to attain a conventional standard. When grapes are crushed, the must thus formed comes under the influence of a kind of yeast in the air, Saccharomyces ellipsoideus or wine yeast, which acts upon it much as brewer's yeast does upon malt mash, the chief difference being that in the case of wine the fermentation is spontaneous. Unripe grapes contain a little malic acid, the acid characteristic of apples, but the ripe fruit and the must made from it contain tartaric acid. From the fermented mass there is obtained on evaporation a reddish powder called argol, really impure potassium tartrate, and it is from this that the ordinary tartaric acid crystals are prepared. The effect of wine yeast is to convert some of the natural grape-sugar into alcohol, evolving carbonic acid and forming certain by-products. The more sugar the more alcohol, and hence, in bad seasons, glucose is often added to must before fermenting. The quantity of sugar also depends upon the treatment of the grapes before pressing; thus vim sees, as Tokay, are prepared from grapes partially dried on the stem before plucking, vin de paille is made from grapes sun-dried on straw, and both of these yield wines of high alcoholic strength. Very ripe grapes may furnish a juice containing 40 per cent of sugar, whereas in Holland, where the weather is not so settled as in the wine countries, the percentage of sugar is only 10 or 12. As in brewing, there is formed a little aldehyd, highly intoxicating, but soon oxidized into acetic acid. The red colour of certain wines is due to a pigment contained in the skins, and in red wines this is retained by keeping the skins, while in white wines they are removed. On standing, red wines tend to deposit their pigment, thus becoming lighter in colour. Connected with the seeds in the must is the presence of tannin, which may be present in such quantity as to cause