FOOD IN SICKNESS. 263 Gout is a disorder of elimination, in which the natural breaking up of nitrogenous matters is interfered with, and the waste products thus formed accumulate within the system. The dietary treatment clearly aims at promoting the removal of the waste already formed and preventing any fresh ac- cumulation. All substances, therefore, which in any way check or interfere with the regular metabolism of nitrogenous matters shoidd be dropped, and this disposes of alcohol, as well as fats, sugar, and starches, since all these are easdy oxidized within the body, and are to that extent "albumen- sparing ". This leaves animal foods of a simple kind, but excluding yolk of egg, unsuitable on account of the lecithin in it; and in most cases a patient will do best on milk or whey and hot water, thin oatmeal gruel, and thin veal or chicken broth, with occasionally weak tea and dry toast. With con- valescence this simple diet may be gradually supplemented by adding once a day boiled mutton, or chicken and rice, or grilled sole or whiting, with sliced lemon, or an egg poached or boiled may be added at breakfast to the dry toast. Meals should be as much as possible homogeneous, i.e. carbohydrates should be taken by themselves at one meal, flesh at another; and the liberal use of hot water will promote elimination of gouty products, removing these both by the kidneys and the skin. Enough has already been said about Diabetes to indicate that this may be due to a disordered liver or to deranged assimilation. In the former variety a cure may be effected by strict diet, excluding all substances convertible into sugar, i.e. all carbohydrates whatsoever. In the more severe form, accompanied by emaciation, sugar is formed at the expense of the tissues themselves, and diet alone is powerless to arrest this, a very serious disease. The standard diabetic food is milk, and the exclusive use of skim-milk has been able to remove all sugar from the urine in a fortnight. The principles upon which this disease is to be treated are thus laid down in works on medicine:— 1. Reduce to a minimum or avoid altogether all substances containing starch or sugar. 2. Give as much animal food as can be comfortably digested and assimilated. 3. Replace the discarded carbohydrates by suitable sub- stances from among the animal and vegetable fats and oils. 4. Except in the severe form, encourage muscular exercise to consume the excess of sugar in the blood.