FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 198 still makes its appearance; it seems to fear no phylloxera, and thrives in spite of hungry and predacious snails. An inhabitant of the temperate zone, it more than consoles us for the lack of plantains and bananas and guavas, which, after all, are not such delicacies as people imagine. When Macaulay returned from India he declared that he would give all the fruits of the East for a pottle of Covent Garden strawberries, and most other exiled Britons have doubtless been of the great historian's opinion." The ratio of sugar to free acid in strawberries ranges from 2 : 1 up to 6-7 : 1 in the pine-apple strawberry. They are richer than most fruits in potash and lime salts, and espe- cially soda salts, and are thus recommended for gout. In moderation they are very wholesome and cooling. They have an agreeable aroma, and it is said that their flavour is enhanced by the addition of some acid juice, such as orange or lemon juice, or vinegar. After rain strawberries are comparatively insipid. Raspberry.—In the wild raspberry the ratio of sugar to acid is only 1*8 : 1, but in cultivated varieties 3-5 : 1. Its uses are similar to other fruits of this class. Raspberry wine and vinegar are particularly agreeable and cooling in fevers. The Bramble, Blackberry, or Blackboyd is by many people considered the finest fruit of this class, and yet it is rarely cultivated, probably because it is so abundant in the wild state. Seeing what cultivation has done for rasps, it seems a pity that the bramble is not taken up by gardeners. It is largely used for making wine, and bramble jelly is the finest jelly made. Mulberries, red and black, are also used. The finest kind is the Indian mulberry. It is very refreshing and slightly laxative. The Fig belongs to the same botanical order as the latter. It ranks with the date as a food-stnff, and is highly nutritious, since the pulp contains about 62 per cent of fig sugar and 4 per cent of proteids. Figs are eaten green or sun-dried. The best figs come from Turkey, and inferior kinds are pressed along with almonds into fig-cakes, something like little cheeses. Dried figs are used medicinally to remove chronic constipation and in lung and kidney diseases, while their external use as plasters for boils and similar suppurations is of long standing, as evidenced by the case of Hezekiah. The Plantain, of which the Banana is said to be merely a variety, was originally an Indian fruit, but shortly after the