ANIMAL FOOD. 149 digestible. It is exceedingly savoury, but rather stimulating and highly flavoured for persons of weak digestion. Young venison is very tender and rich in albumen, containing less gelatinous substances than is usual in young flesh. The com- position of venison is: water, 74-63; proteids, 19*24; fat, 1*3 per cent. Hare, when young, is very tender, and possesses an excel- lent flavour. Its fibres are short, and the flesh is very digestible, nearly as much so as chicken, while it is more stimulating. Rabbits are not so digestible as hare, except when young. Unless when boiled, they become hard and dry in cooking, and are therefore best served in pie, with extra fat in the shape of bacon. Eabbits may be boiled, when a good deal of the nutriment may be recovered as soup, or they may be stewed and served up with rice, to supply the deficiency of carbohydrates, with a little curry as condiment. Pork.—The pig, though properly a vegetable feeder, and never better than when exclusively so, is a most miscellaneous feeder, often on very questionable mate- F,LLET- L0,N- back & ribs, collar. rials, and hence pork, more than any other animal food, is re- sponsible for the in- troduction of para- sites into the human body. Pigs fed on flesh are easily recog- °™F flank, streaky, fore hock. nized by the strong Kg. 34. pdour of their flesh, and the soft, jelly-like fat, almost diseased in appearance. When fed on fish, as is often the case in a fishing town, the fishy flavour is distinctly observable in the bacon. The fat of pork is soft, consisting chiefly of palmitin and olein, with little or no stearin; it is large in amount, and therefore of all flesh- meats pork is the most difficult to digest. The varieties in composition due to the condition of the animal are given thus:— Fat Pork, ... Water, 47-40 Proteid, 14-54 Fat, 37'34 I<ean, 72-57 19-91 6-81 In the form of bacon it is more digestible, and as such it is used with lean meats, such as chicken and rabbit, or with other