90 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. gether into the tissues beyond. In behaviour, and according to a favourite theory, they are the police of the blood. These solid bodies swim in what seems under the microscope to be a colourless liquid, in reality pale straw-coloured, the liquor of the blood, or blood Plasma. About £ of the weight of the blood consists of corpuscles, and § of plasma. It is a watery liquid, containing 90 per cent of water, and 8 to 9 per cent of proteid matters, the various blood-albumens, besides carbonate of potash to which the blood owes its alkalinity, traces of fat, sugar, urea, &c. In fact, when one remembers that blood plasma contains nutriment for every part of the body, the complexity of its composition is at once recognized. The alkalinity of the blood is chiefly due to potassium carbonate (pearl-ash), but in rheumatism and gout the blood becomes acid from lactic and uric acid respectively. It is in preserving the blood alkaline that fruits have their chief use, since the fruit salts, tartrate, citrate, &c, of potash, become converted into carbonates of potash. The most obvious property of blood is its power of coagula- tion. When the blood of an animal is received into a vessel it sets within a few minutes, forming a jelly, which later on shrinks and squeezes out a pale straw-coloured liquid, not unlike the liquid in a blister; this is Serum, and it contains no corpuscles at all. When the clot is examined it is seen to consist of masses of red corpuscles—whence its red colour— entangled in the meshes of an albuminous substance called Fibrin. This latter substance does not exist as such in the blood; but when blood is shed, certain substances which were before in solution react upon each other to form solid fibrin, and hence they are called fibrin-factors. It will be remembered that coagulation of albumen can be brought about by heat, as when an egg is fried; also, that on the death of an animal its muscle albumen coagulates, causing the "death-stiffening". Coagulation of blood is something similar; certain soluble albuminous matters in presence of air and salts of lime become coagulated and form fibrin. But if freshly-shed blood be stirred up with a bunch of twigs this fibrin is removed as soon as made, and appears on the whisk as a slightly yellowish jelly, and since it has not had time to entangle the corpuscles, those remain in the blood, which thus retains its red colour, but has lost its power of clotting, being now defibrinated bbod. The annexed scheme will help to give an idea of the formation of clot, and also of defibrinated blood:—