27 CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS. PROTEIDS. great mistake to suppose that they are foods at all, in the sense of supplying materials for the maintenance ot the body. It is commonly supposed that in ranking beef-tea all the "strength" of the meat Avas obtained in the liquid, and that only a° valueless mass of indigestible fibres was left behind. This is so far true that the hard fibres are indigestible by themselves, but if beef-tea or extract of meat be added, they become quite digestible, thus demonstrating the peculiar function of extractives, namely, to regulate the digestion and assimilation of proteids, more especially of the gelatins. Even pure albumen, in the form of white of egg, causes nausea after a while, and albumen appears in the urine, showing that it is not being properly assimilated, but behaving like a waste pro- duct. In no sense, however, are extractives foods; they act as stimulants, and from the ease with which they are decom- posed save that tissue-consumption which has been already mentioned as characteristic of decline. They promote ex- change of materials, and so quicken the " pace " of the vital activities. This effect was well demonstrated by a classical experiment made upon a litter of puppies. Some were fed on ordinary food, others on Liebig's extract, and the rest got no food at all. The first set got on all right, but the second lot died even earlier than those which were starved. In Food and Sanitation, 1893, the subject of meat extracts is thoroughly discussed from the analytical standpoint, and the following comparison of various extracts may be useful. The figures certainly justify the use of the term " Eevelations " as the title of the articles. "Bovril" is the type of a meat extract which proceeds on sounder physiological principles, since it consists of the usual extract plus beef-powder or fibrin, obtained by carefully expelling all the water (about 75 per cent) from ordinary meat, and grinding the residue into powder. Sub- joined is a detailed description of the whole process (Commerce, 1894):— The beef is deprived of bone and superfluous fat, chopped very fine, and placed in enormous porcelain-lined vats contain- ing cold water. This concoction passes through an elaborate series of straining and concentrating processes, in vacuo and otherwise, until the familiar preparation of extract of meat in the form of a paste is produced. This extract is essentially the soluble salts of flesh, which give to meat its flavour and odour. It is not a food; it does not go to form flesh in the human system; it is a nerve stimulant; it does not supply