119 METABOLISM. again; plants act the miser parent, animals the spendthrift son • and so all the parts of this little world dovetail into cud! other and form a grand cycle of matter, and that which acts on matter-force. This stored or potential energy is by us converted into kinetic energy, energy liberated in the shape of heat and work, and to this transformation, including all the changes of substance involved, the name Metabolism is <dven, meaning by that the constant change and interchange of matter between the organism and its surroundings. It has the same relation to the body as the terms import and export trade have to a country. In order to prepare foods for digestion, and also to increase their attractiveness of appearance or flavour, food is cooked in various ways; but in all cases their history within the body is the same—the carbon in them leaves the body, 90 per cent of it as carbonic acid by the lungs and skin, the rest in the urine and feces; their hydrogen is eliminated as water by the kid- neys, skin, lungs, and bowels, more water thus leaving the body than is taken in; nearly all their nitrogen within twenty-four hours as urea, by the kidneys, and about 2 per cent of it as uric acid, kreatinin, &c; their sulphur and phosphorus as sulphates and phosphates in urine, along with other mineral matters; and their oxygen in combination with the above. The intermediate stages of metabolism are not so clear. Fats are easily burned up to form carbonic acid and water, and are thus the great source of energy, readily obtainable, and so sparing the tissues, especially the muscles, from drawing upon themselves. This "albumen-sparing action of fats" is readily illustrated by the use of cod-liver oil and other fats in wasting diseases. The energy of fats would seem to be derived from the fatty acids rather than from glycerin, since the use of the latter alone is not followed by the same results. In the case of carbohydrates, the process is clear up to a certain point; they become dextrose, and in the liver this ist converted into glycogen, but the further history of glycogen wants working out. With proteid foods again, matters are still more obscure; by the gastric and pancreatic juices they are peptonized, but in the process of absorption become changed into serum albumen. Some of this goes to nourish the tissues, a small proportion only, otherwise a gain in body- weight would be the result. This is the so-called "fixed" albumen, as opposed to the " circulating" albumen which is utilized as a source of energy like other food principles. Some