163 VEGETABLE FOODS. texture. Flour is ground while separated from the bran, and according to the amount of grinding is yellowish-white from the presence of gluten, or pure white, in which case it is likely to contain little except starch. Good flour should have a pleasant smell, and an absence of acid or rancid taste. It should not contain more than 15"2 per cent of water, otherwise it will not keep well. A test of good flour is the amount of water it absorbs, and when spread out it should show no traces of bran. There is always a loss in grinding, 100 parts of wheat giving 80 of flour, 16 of bran, and 4 of loss. The flour itself is classified as best, seconds or middlings, and thirds, bran flour or pollai'ds. A dark-coloured flour indicates often damp, either during harvesting or in storage. When grinding has been carried to excess so as to produce a fine white flour, not only is part of the gluten removed but a good deal of the fat and salts associated with it, and the pro- duct is correspondingly less nutritious, since bran contains 15 per cent of nitrogenous matters, 3^ fat, and 5'7 salts. "Whole" wheaten meal, while more nutritious, is apt to be irritating on account of the indigestible outer coat consisting of cellulose and siliceous matters, and while this is useful as a laxative for persons of sedentary habits its use has not been general. A via media has been found in decorticated whole wheaten flour, in which only the two outer layers already mentioned are removed, and when the flour is finely ground any mechanical irritation of the digestive canal is avoided. The grain is also crushed to form wheaten groats, much used in America, and preferred to oats in point of delicacy and digestibility. Of recent years a granular preparation of wheat has become familiar under the name of Semolina. In Glasgow semolina is made from American wheat, but the Italian semolina is made from hard Italian wheat rich in gluten, as are also macaroni, vermicelli, and kindred products, which have thus a higher nutritive value than bread. Like most grains, wheat is subject to parasites, both animal and vegetable. Among the former are mites (Acarus), a sign of commencing decomposition; the common weevil, more fre- quently found in oats; and the larvae of a species of moth, called the chocolate moth because it feeds on chocolate. These last have caused great ravages among stores of biscuit on board ship. Vegetable parasites include mildew or red-rust, bunt, and smut; all species of fungi-smut are said to induce diarrhoea. Wheat and rye arc the only cereals suitable for bread-making,