173 LEGUMES. entirely different plant, along with the scarlet runner, used in London district. The common field or horse bean is chiefly used for cattle; it contains less nutriment and more indigestible matters than the Windsor bean. The latter should be young, as when old the skins become leathery and indigestible; they should burst on boiling. The following table gives a com- parative analysis of the common and haricot bean:— Broad Beans. Haricots. Water 14-34 ... 13-60 Proteids, 23-66 ... 23-12 Fat, 1-63 ... 2-28 Carbohydrates, 49-25 ... 53'63 Cellulose, 7-47 ... 3 "84 Ash, 3-15 ... 3-53 The Haricot or French bean, and the scarlet runner, belong- to the same family. The latter is chiefly used as a green vegetable, being served up in the pods under the name of haricots verts. The haricots Manes, or simply "blancs", are served in France in a variety of ways, boiled in water and served with butter, salt, and pepper like peas, or mixed with flageolets, i.e. preserved green haricots, and similarly treated, forming "haricots panaches", or boiled in gravy and dished with mutton. They can be mashed into puree, or used to thicken soup, or used as a salad flavoured by adding tomato or similar vegetables. Sir Henry Thompson is loud in praise of haricots. " There is no product of the vegetable kingdom so nutritious, holding its own in this respect, as it well can, even against the beef and mutton of the animal kingdom. The haricot ranks just above lentils, which have been so much praised of late, and rightly, the haricot being also to most palates more agreeable. By most stomachs, too, haricots are more easily digested than meat is; and, consuming weight for weight, the eater feels lighter and less oppressed, as a rule, after the leguminous diet; while the comparative cost is very greatly in favour of the latter. I do not, of course, overlook in the dish of simple haricots the absence of savoury odours proper to well-cooked meat; but nothing is easier than to combine one part of meat with two parts of haricots, adding vegetables and garden herbs, so as to produce a stew which shall be more nutritious, wholesome, and palatable than a stew of all meat and no haricots. Moreover, the cost of the latter will be more than double that of the former" (Food and Feeding, p. 40).