FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 18 4 radishes, asafoetida, and scurvy-grass, all of which owe their pungency to this oil. Oil of mustard is allyl sulphocyanidc, and can now be prepared from oil of garlic, or vice versa. Gourds form a large class of plants closely allied botanically to the cucumber, and they are grown in all warm climatea The common gourd or Pumpkin is much grown in the United States, where it may attain a weight of 70 lbs. Not only is it used for feeding cattle, but also as food by the poorer classes. It is never eaten raw, but made into soups or sliced and fried in oil, or made into pies with apples, &c. A hardy variety of pumpkin is the Vegetable Marrow, of all the gourds the one most cultivated in Britain. It is pleasant and digestible, but is more of a drink than a food, its pro- portion of water being so high. The form most suited for food is the Great gourd, either in the green Spanish form or the great yellow gourd, which sometimes attains a weight of 200 lbs. The Squash is another form of gourd. The Orange gourd is sometimes unfit for use, since it contains a quantity of colocynth, which gives it a bitter taste. Cucumbers are generally used in salad or pickled in the young state, when they are known as Gherkins. Some species are used in soups, while from others the drag Colocynth is obtained. Raw cucumbers are very apt to prove irritants in persons of weak digestion. Belonging to the cucumber family is the Melon, of which there are several varieties, differing in the colour of the flesh —yellow, green, or red as in the " blood " melon—and alsO in the appearance of the rind. It is more a drink than a food, since the solids in it amount to only 5 per cent, and this is especially the case with the Water Melon, the juice of which is an agreeable and cooling drink, allaying fever as well as quenching thirst. Melons are eaten raw or with sugar, but sometimes with spices, such as ginger or pepper. The seeds of the Kaukoor, an Indian melon, contain a good deal of starch and vegetal>le fat; they are ground into meal, while the oil is used for lighting. The plant itself appears in pickles, and enters into various Indian dishes. Although so watery it is very indigestible. The Tomato or Love-Apple, although a fruit, is generally used as a vegetable, and may be treated here. It comes originally from the tropical part of America, but is exten- sively grown in the United States and the south of Europe, and its use in Britain is yearly increasing. In Italy, indeed,