CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS. PROTETDS. 29 practically water-free form; and in this state they are packed in hermetically-sealed tins, and forwarded to the company s premises in London, where they are worked into bovnl. As has been already stated, there is no greater popular fallacy than that which places extract of meat and beef-tea m the category of nutrients, or foods that will sustain life or make flesh in the human system, and few who have not given dietetics a special study are aware that meat extracts are simple stimulants, acting upon the nervous system, giving it a decree of exhilaration and liveliness, but without any power of "recuperating or building up the tissues. In brief, beef-tea is poker, nutriment is fuel, and heat can no more be obtained from a poker than the body can be nourished on ordinary extract of meat or beef-tea. What is wanted for the fire is fuel; what is wanted for the body are the ingredients of which the body is composed, and they are the aforesaid albumen and fibrin. There are the chemical constituents of albumen and fibrin in grass, but even were we capable of assimilating them we should be kept half our waking hours in the consumption of grass to obtain from it the amount necessary. Nature, however, has elaborated a process by which the ox munches the grass in his abundant leisure, and the ox supplies us with the perfected albumen and fibrin, minus the enormous amount of waste which the grass contains. The ox has made for us beef, which is chemically the same as the flesh from our own bodies. It may be divided into two parts—fluid and solid. The fluid is water, holding in suspension a variety of ingre- dients which give flavour and odour to beef. The muscular tissue is impregnated with a proteid fluid in which are met a variety of other substances, such as kreatin, kreatinin, hypo- xanthin, inosite or muscle-sugar, lactic acid, and salts such as chloride of potassium and phosphate of magnesium. When obtained cold, muscle juice also contains soluble albumen identical with that in white of egg, and coagulating at 73° C.; but as boiling is essential to the manufacture of extract, this albumen is entirely coagulated, and for purposes of preservation must be entirely strained off. It will thus be seen that nothing is left in the extract which can be regarded as food, and that what is required to make it food is the albumen, fibrin, and kindred substances previously removed. There is another beef preparation which stands in the first place, the method of preparing which differs from all others in that it is an imitation of the actual digestive process. This