270 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. giving rise to an overpowering empyreumatic or "cooking" smell. Baking was thus practically roasting in a confined air- space; but in the modern oven, brick-lined or lime-washed as in Devonshire, and heated by gas jets, there is no difference between the flavour of a roasted joint and a baked one. To prevent the formation of half-burned oil owing to spluttering gravy, all that is wanted is to put the baking-pan containing the joint into a larger one containing a little water; this not only arrests particles of oil which would otherwise land on the sides and floor of the oven, but it serves as a water-jacket to regulate the heat and keep it down to about the boiling-point of water. When meat is placed in a pie-dish, it should be sup- ported on something, such as an earthenware tray, in order to keep it from being scorched, and also from becoming sodden by excess of fluid. The loss of weight by baking and by boiling is much the same, about 25 per cent. Count Rumford has put it upon record that oven roasting is better than open roasting, but he adds that he despairs of getting the English mind to believe this, and Mr. Williams supports both his views and his conclusions. The predilection for open roasting is due to in- sular prejudice in the first place, and in the second to unsatis- factory ovens and other appliances, coupled with carelessness in their use. Boiling of meat, like roasting and baking, aims at coagulating a surface layer of albumen, and thus cooking the meat in a vessel of its own skin, the heat being supplied in this case by hot water. Albumen is partly soluble in water, and to prevent loss of substance in this wa}^ the water must be boiling before the meat is put in; and the boiling-point will be all the higher if a little salt is added to the water. After the meat has been " case-hardened ", the temperature should be lowered so as to keep the water not even simmering but just about 75° C. or so. As generally practised, the heat used during boiling is excessive, leading not only to waste of fuel, but progressively hardening the meat from without inwards. A fair idea of the temperature required wTill be obtained by adding after the first five minutes three pints of cold water to every gallon, and repeating every time the liquid boils in to that extent. It is quite true that if boiling be carried to excess the meat is boiled to x'ags, but this simply means that the connective tissue between the muscle fibre has become gelatinized, the fibres themselves are quite hard and indigestible, and may be recognized unchanged in the faeces.