HYDROGEN. 17 current, and the two gases of which it is composed may by suitable means be collected separately, when it will be found, as already stated, that water consists of hydrogen and oxygen in the proportion by weight of one to eight. If the separate gases be mixed nothing occurs, but if the mixed gases be kindled a violent explosion takes place, great heat is evolved, showing how intense is this chemical action, and there is produced steam and nothing else. The heat generated by the combustion of hydrogen is fully four times as much as that from the burning of carbon, and, next to the electric arc, the oxy-hydrogen blow-pipe furnishes the most intense heat avail- able. It is sometimes useful to know how much heat can be got from a fuel or a food-stuff. It is well known that the quality of our diet varies with the season of the year, and that certain foods, such as fats, are specially marked off as " heat-giversi". A little reflection will show that all foods are heat-givers, in- asmuch as they all contain combustible material, carbon and hydrogen. One must, however, distinguish between amount of heat and degree or intensity of heat. A tea-cup and a quart jug filled from the same kettle of hot water will show the same intensity of heat, as tested by a thermometer; but the amount of heat in the jug would be about eight times that in the tea-cup. Intensity of heat is measured by the thermometer, amount of heat by the calorimeter. Intensity of heat is reckoned in degrees, the freezing-point of water being taken as zero, or in Fahrenheit's scale 32°, and the boiling-point 100° (212° F.). Amount of heat is reckoned in calories, a calorie being the amount of heat required to raise 1 gram of water—about 15£ grains — 1° Centigrade. Measured in this way the heat evolved by the combustion of 1 grain of hydrogen amounts to 34,460 calories, and that from 1 gram of carbon to 8040 calories. The following is a statement of the results obtained by burning various food-stuffs in a calorimeter, although one must not assume that these figures represent exactly the relative value of food-stuffs as heat-producers when consumed within the body. For heat-giving purposes it is thus seen that 100 parts of animal albumen = 52 fat = 114 starch = 129 dextrose, while 100 parts of vegetable albumen = 55 fat =121 starch = 137 dextrose; but the fact is notorious that vegetable albumen is not so readily digested and assimilated as animal albumen, so that calorimetric figures are valuable only within certain limits. (L r (M173) B