FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 152 ally with moat rather than by itself. The short-legged fowls are more delicate in flavour, and as for age, a cock of even one year will be found to be too tough for most purposes, except stewing for soup or in a pic. A young cock is known by its smooth legs, a young hen by its swelling breast. The flavour and tenderness of the flesh, as well as the size of the bird, is greatly increased by removal of the sexual organs. Ducks and Geese have more fat, are richer in nutriment and stronger in flavour than fowls. Their flesh is darker in colour, and is more difficult of digestion. Among Game, Partridges and Pheasants when young are very delicate in flavour; Pigeons less so. Purely wild birds, such as Grouse, &c, are very firm and close in fibre, and on that account are generally " hung", to impart tenderness and develop flavour. They are not so fat as poultry, are rich in proteid matter, and therefore not so suitable for persons of weak digestion, owing to their strong flavour, often fishy, derived from the food of the birds; the best portion is the breast. SUMMARY. 1. Animal flesh consists of 75 per cent of water and about 20 per cent of proteids, with a varying amount of fat. 2. The chief proteid in meat is muscle-albumen in the form of syntonin or acid-albumen, aloug with some serum-albumen and extractives. Quality of meat depends upon various factors:—Age, sex, breed, feeding, condition, and health of the animal, as well as the particular " cut". 4. Generally speaking, the shorter in fibre and leaner meat is, the more easily is it digested. Lesson 29.—FISH. Fish as a food-stuff contains a large proportion of water, a varying amount of fat, and nitrogenous matters chiefly of the gelatine-forming order. Isinglass, the finest form of gelatine, is obtained from fish bones, but more especially from the sounds of cartilaginous fishes, such as the ray and sturgeon. The flesh of several fish is affected in smell and flavour by the feeding, and a too exclusively fish diet is said to cause affec-