FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 210 camellia, grown originally in China, but now extensively culti- vated in India, and more especially Ceylon. Two kinds are known to the market, black and green tea. The latter consists of tea-leaves naturally dried in the sun, thus preserving their green colour. It is a stronger tea than black, richer by 5 per cent, but excessive adulteration, "facing" with green colouring matter and so forth, has to a large extent destroyed public confidence in green tea, and black tea has now the market practically to itself. In black tea the leaves are allowed partly to decompose, and the black colour is due to this incipient decay due to fermentation. The different trade names given to tea represent, not differ- ent varieties, but differences in the age and position of the leaves. The finest tea, made from the buds and young leaves at the top of the branch, is Orange Pekoe, the next leaves form Pekoe, the larger leaves, lower down, Suchong, and the older leaves, nearest the base, Congou. Generally speaking, the smaller the leaf the better the infusion, but tea is now com- monly put into the market broken, both for the sake of packing and to convey a false idea of fineness or to increase the total surface exposed to the water. Broken leaves are easily detected by soaking in water and unrolling. " Lie tea " is a nickname given to rubbish made up with tea-dust, and coloured or faced to imitate the real article. It is not tea at all, and is detected by its poorness on infusion, a test which also indicates the presence of exhausted tea. Analyses of tea differ very largely, but the following will give a fair idea of its composition, showing that apart from the sugar and cream added, tea contains practically no nutriment (Konig) :— Water, ... ... ... ... 11 "49 per cent. Nitrogenous substances, ... ... 21 "22 „ Theine, 1-35 Ethereal oil, ... ... ... "67 „ Fat, chlorophyll, wax, ... ... 3-62 „ Gum and dextrin, ... ... ... 7'13 „ Tannin, 12-36 „ Other nitrogen-free matters, ... 16-75 „ Woody fibre, 20'30 Ash, 5-11 The important substance in these analyses is Theine, an alkaloid substance composed of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen, and to it tea owes its stimulating properties. Combined with,