212 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. This shows conclusively that with a high-class China tea the proportion of tannin extracted is not appreciably increased by the longer infusion, but that in a cheap tea prolonged infusion is to be avoided. The figures also demonstrate the large excess of tannin found in Indian (not Ceylon) teas, and the large in- crease, nearly § more, due to length of infusion. Infusion is accelerated when the leaves are broken, so as to present a larger total surface, and but f.or risk of adulteration tea-dust would give almost perfect results in this respect. The Chinese Brick Tea and the Japanese Tea Powder are applications of this, and within the last year the well-known chemists, Bur- roughs and Wellcome, have prepared tabloids of compressed tea which seem to prove very useful to those who want a hurried cup. They are sold in boxes of 100 for 6d, and, accord- ing to the makers, one tabloid is sufficient for a tea-cup, but, unless for those who like strong tea, this is an overestimate. The great advantage of these to nurses, district visitors, com- mercial and other travellers, &c, is obvious, and the employ- ment of them conduces to economy, since the exact number of tabloids is taken each time. The residue in the cup consists of the insoluble matters, chiefly cellulose. Various devices have been employed to reduce the risk of extracting too much tannin, generally taking the form of removing the leaves from the water when the time-limit has been reached. The time- honoured " cosy " stands condemned in this respect, though if the tea be infused in one tea-pot and transferred to another heated vessel, then the latter may have its temperature main- tained by any suitable means without any risk of extracting more tannin. Water containing much iron and lime would require to be well boiled with carbonate of soda before infus- ing, so as to remove both these substances as carbonates as well as to soften the water. The following experiment may be commended to those who, by reason of excessive breakages, have been driven back upon " tin " tea-pots, really made of iron plated with tin:—Make a strong infusion of tea, boiling it in- deed so as to extract as much tannin as possible, and then add a few drops of a ferrous salt such as copperas; the tea becomes almost black from the formation of a tannate of iron, in plain English—ink, since ink is formed by the action of tannic or gallic acid upon iron salts. This will perhaps explain the very peculiar colour which tea assumes when infused in a well-worn tin tea-pot, and will give some idea as to the probable effect of iron medicines taken immediately before or after tea. If for