SALTS. 15 oranges, and the citron tribe generally, citric acid; while oxalic acid commonly called salts of sorrel, occurs in tomatoes, rhu- barb stalks, and the sorrels. All these acids consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and, with the exception of acetic and lactic acids, have more oxygen than is required to oxidize then- hydrogen into water. Their great function is not, however, to supply energy by oxidation, but to preserve the alkalinity of the blood, and to act as preventives to scurvy, or antiscorbutics. It may seem like carrying coals to Newcastle to cure acidity in the stomach by drinking lemon-juice, to "kill" an acid by taking more acid, but the fact remains, and the explanation is given above. Fruits and green vegetables are eaten, not so much for any nourishment they contain as for their water and salts. This is the true function of a salad, and all methods of cooking vege- tables should be subordinated to that end. Dry salads contain 23 per cent of salts, which strongly resemble those of the blood. The Irish are quite right, therefore, in regarding as heresy any method of boiling potatoes otherwise than in their " jackets ", since in the potato the cells particularly rich in potash salts lie underneath the skin, and are the first ingredients to be dis- solved out when the latter is broken. The importance of fresh vegetables in preventing scurvy is well known. Most vege- tables contain from two to eight times as much potash as soda, so that herbivora require to preserve the balance of alkalies by taking salt in their food. Besides sugar and vegetable acids, fruits contain pectin ^ or vegetable jelly, and an insoluble substance called pectose, which by the action of a ferment in the fruit itself is changed into pectin. Like the fruit acids these consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, the latter in defect. Rheumatism is characterized by an excess of lactic acid within the tissues, as gout is by uric acid. These acids decom- pose within the joints, forming carbonates of lime, or " chalk- stones", and thus rendering motion extremely painful. In gout the preventive treatment aims at the formation of soluble urates by giving alkalies, especially lithia, the urates of which are very soluble in water. Most of the other mineral substances, such as fluorine, will be considered as required, but Iron deserves special mention. The blood is rich in iron, and, as the figures show, it is espe- cially the solid parts of the blood that contain it. It is to iron that blood owes its red colour, since that metal enters into the