FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 180 stances, consisting almost entirely of water, starchy matters, and sal ts. 3. The different forms of arrowroot are starch pure and simple, and have no more dietetic value than common potato starch. 4. Roots used entire, such as radishes, carrots, parsnips, &c, are valued for their salts rather than for any nutriment in them. Lesson 34.—GREEN VEGETABLES. Green vegetables are even less nutritious than roots, and are valued mainly for their antiscorbutic salts and flavour, the latter due to various essential oils. The large proportion of cellulose among the solids makes them indigestible, but also useful as laxatives to a certain extent. They contain 90 per cent of water, and only from 1£ to 4 per cent of proteids. Before use they should be carefully cleaned, not only by re- moval of dead and decaying parts, but by careful washing, and a preliminary soaking in salt is advisable to kill embryos of tape-worms and other entozoa, which generally enter the body in this way. Of all green vegetables the Cabbage tribe of the Cruciferae bulk most largely. This natural order, easily recognized by the shape of the flower, furnishes several important food acces- sories, and does not contain a single poisonous plant—a fact of some importance to explorers. Cabbages all contain sulphur, and are therefore flatulent in effects; boiling dissipates a good deal of the sulphur compounds, besides softening the cellulose, but cabbages are never so digestible as when young, and eaten raw with vinegar. They are used in broth, as salads, i r mashed. Cauliflower is the inflorescence of a species of cabbage. It is the most delicate and digestible of all the cabbage products. Broccoli is a variety of cauliflower, inferior in flavour. Kale or Greens have open heads of leaves, and the more the leaves are curled the more highly are they esteemed. Ger- man greens are the most delicate. Sea-kale consists of the young sprouts of the sea-cabbage excluded from light, as, if exposed to light, they are neither tender nor pleasant, but develop an acrid taste. They are delicate in flavour, nutritive, and easy of digestion.