CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS. PROTEIDS. 31 It is now absolutely clear that proteids may form fat. Fatty defeneration in muscle is an example of a nitrogenous sub- stance becoming changed into fat, and it is well known that if a nursing mother wishes to enrich her milk that end is best attained by increasing her allowance, not of fatty or sugary matter, but of lean meat. By experiments on animals it has also been proved that pure proteid matter may be converted into sugar and glycogen. This is seen in diabetes, where the sugar found in the urine is out of all proportion to the carbohydrates in the food, and so must have been formed either out of nitrogenous foods or at the expense of the nitrogenous tissues themselves. COMPARATIVE VIEW OF THE TRUE PROTEIDS. EL. Globulins, insoluble in water, but soluble in dilute saline solutions; coagu lated by heat. I. Native Albumens, soluble r Serum albumen, in blood, in water and dilute saline J Egg albumen. solutions ; coagulated by I Muscle albumen, extracted by water, heat. V. Lact-albumen. ( Vitellin, in yolk of egg. Para-globulin or serum-globulin, in blood. Fibrinogen, forming fibrin. Myosinogen, forming myosin. Oaseinogen, forming casein. Globin, in haemoglobin of the blood. III. Derived Albumens or% Albuminates insoluble in Acid albumen or syntonin. water, soluble m dilute ' Mk&li.albumen. saline solutions; not co- I agulated by heat. J / Bodies intermediate between proteids and IV. Proteoses. j peptones, formed in the digestive processes. V. Peptones. ,_. _ , . , _ . f Coagulated by heat. VI. Coagulated Proteids. j Coagulated by ferments; fibrin, myosin, casein. 43 > * O rt ■T3 0) eS o a H C3 g Hi SUMMARY. 1. Foods contain carbon, nitrogen, hydrogen, oxygen, &c, in the form of compounds called proximate principles. 2. The chief proximate principles are classified as proteids, fats, carbohydrates, salts, and water. 3. Proteids contain: nitrogen, 16; carbon, 54; oxygen, 22; hydro- gen, 7; and sulphur, 1 per cent; and are thus called nitrogenous foods. 4. They are subdivided into albumens, gelatines, and extractives.