UG FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. ing the blood are to make the flesh paler in colour and give it a more delicate flavour. Since blood is a very unstable compound, its removal renders the meat less liable to decay, and since it is also the chief vehicle for the spread of disease germs through the body, its removal lessens any danger on that score. By Jewish law— and the Mosaic law is far in advance of the nineteenth century in sanitation—all the blood was to be drained off, and the Jews of to-day are certainly remarkable for their immunity from such diseases as tuberculosis and cancer, which might be communicated by the blood. The only argument in favour of retaining the blood is to be found in the nutritive qualities of blood itself; but though more nutritive, red meat is less digestible than white, and it is always white flesh in the form of fish, chicken, &c, which is prescribed for invalids. The characteristics of good meat are given by Parke> ae follows:—The flesh should be firm, elastic, of a bright uniform colour; in fresh meat the outside is lighter than the inside, owing to oxidation of the haemoglobin in the blood. Lean meat is paler than blood, so that a dark-purple colour shows that the blood has not been properly drained away, and fresh meat placed on a plate should always part with a slight amount of reddish juice. The flesh of young animals is always paler than that of the mature animal. The muscle should be fine-grained, have a slight pleasant odour, becoming savoury when heated; the flesh should present a marbled appearance, owing to an admixture of fat with the muscular fibres. On cutting, the interior should show no softening of the connec- tive tissue, as this indicates the commencement of decay. The "knife-blade" test is easily applied: push a clean knife-blade in to the bone, and any internal softening will be detected by lessened resistance, and the smell of the blade will reveal decay. , The fat should be healthy-looking, free from bleeding, and firm, not jelly-like in texture; its colour varies from straw- white to pale-yellow, being whiter in young animals. The fat should not be too yellow, though a deep-yellow fat in other- wise healthy flesh may be traceable to feeding with oil-cake. The state of the marrow is often a good test of the condition of meat. It should be light rosy-red in colour, and in the hind- legs solid and firm twenty-four hours after death, while m the fore-legs it is rather softer, like honey.