GEEEN VEGETABLES. 181 Brussels Sprouts are little clusters of leaves resembling cab- bages, formed in the axils of the main leaves. The Savoy is another well-known variety of cabbage. Saner-kraut is a German preparation of white cabbage leaves. When the hearts are firm and white the leaves are taken out, laid in layers with salt between, pressed under a board, and set aside till fermentation commences. When a sour smell arises from the cask the sauer-kraut is removed into a cool place and kept for use. It is generally eaten boiled like fresh cabbage. Spinach or Spinage is a favourite vegetable, and is used in this country much as the sorrel is in France, for clearing the complexion. Burney Yeo quotes the proverb, " Par l'epinard et le poirreau, Fleurit le lys clair et le peau ", which may be freely rendered, " Spinage and leek, keep the skin sleek". The young leaves and even the stems are used, either boiled or fried with butter, but they are best cooked in a puree. After the stem gets mature the leaves become bitter, and are then unfit for use. Its aperient qualities are due to the fact that it consists almost entirely of cellulose, and therefore proves beneficial in habitual constipation. Celery is cultivated either for its roots or for the blanched leaf-stalks. It is eaten raw, alone or in salad, and is used to flavour soups. The stalks contain an aromatic oil, sugar, mucilage, starch, and manna-sugar, and the last acts as a stimulant of the uro-genital organs. The daily moderate use of celery as salad is said to remove nervousness, and even palpitation of the heart; for this purpose celery may be used when in season, and onions when out. A recipe for its use in rheumatism is thus given in the Garden Advertiser: — The celery should be cut into bits and boiled in water until soft, and the water should be drunk by the patient. Put new milk with a little flour and nutmeg into a sauce-pan with the boiled celery, serve it warm with pieces of toast, eat it with potatoes, and the painful ailment will yield. The proper way to eat celery is to have it cooked as a vegetable after the manner above described. Green Artichoke is a species of cultivated thistle, and the part used is the receptacle, called by children "cheese" in the ordinary thistle. The heads are cut before they expand, and are either boiled or eaten raw with salt and pepper. The