FOOD IN SICKNESS. 2G5 all the proximate principles, especially fats, up to the limits of digestion, with plenty of water to encourage elimination by the kidneys and skin; while tubercular meningitis needs milk, iced to reduce the fever. Apoplexy, again, is generally due to excess of food both in quantity and richness, and persons of this tendency should exercise great temperance both in eating and drinking, avoiding butcher-meats, fats, and sugary foods, and deriving their nutriment chiefly from white meats, with green vegetables and fruits for the sake of their laxative action. The treatment of Hysteria and neurasthenia, derangements characterized by exhaustion, feebleness, and irritability, is based upon the principle of rest, any exercise being of the passive sort, as massage. J. K. Mitchell gives the following daily programme in cases of this kind:— 7 a.m. Cocoa. Cool sponge-bath with rough rub and toilet for the clay. 8 „ Breakfast with milk. Rest an hour after. 10 „ 8 ozs. peptonized milk. 11 ,, Massage. 12 noon 8 ozs. milk or soup. Reading aloud by nurse half an hour. 1.30 P.M. Dinner. Rest an hour. 3.30 ,, 8 ozs. peptonized milk. 4 ,, Electricity. 6.30 „ Supper with milk. Rest an hour. 8 ,, Reading aloud by nurse half an hour. 9 ,, Light rubbing by nurse with drip-sheets. 3 ozs. of malt extract with meals, and a tonic afterwards. 8 ozs. peptonized milk with bis- cuit at bed-time, and a glass of milk during the night if desired. Laxative (cascara) 10 to 30 drops occasionally. At a later stage Swedish movements to be added after the massage. The only other disorder to be discussed here is Phthisis or Consumption, our national scourge. In this disease the appetite is most capricious and is easily lost, so that it must be tempted by good cooking, and by appetizing dishes well served and agreeably varied, while keeping the materials fluid and easily absorbed. Farinaceous foods are well suited for this trouble, especially oats and maize, which spare the tissues strongly