177 ROOTS AND TUBERS. of albumen, gum, and salts, but in the process of preparation nothing is left but pure starch. The roots are dug up when a year old, washed and made into pulp, then macerated with water through sieves which separate all the cellulose. The final product is a fine white starch crackling under the fingers on pressure just as dry snow does, and having neither taste nor smell. It has no dietetic value whatever except as starch, and as Mr. Williams has pointed out, the dietetic difference between ordinary commercial starch and the finest and most expensive arrowroot is almost nil. Being a very pure starch, on adding boiling water it dissolves completely, evolving a peculiar odour, and sets to a jelly on cooling. It is made with milk into pud- dings or dissolved in excess of boiling water, flavoured with sugar, lemon-juice, &c, and used as a beverage. The arrowroot most highly valued is West Indian or Bermudas arrowroot, derived as above from the Maranta; the next in value is from Jamaica. East Indian arrowroot is highly esteemed; it con- tains the starch of Curcuma, a species of turmeric. West Indian arrowroot is also prepared from Canna or Tous-le's-mois; Tahiti arrowroot from the Tacca plant. This last, like the potato, is acrid, and requires maceration in water. It is gene rally eaten with vinegar or other acids, and is said to be an effectual cure for dysentery, which other arrowroot is not. Portland arrowroot is the starch obtained from the roots of the common arum, while English arrowroot is simply potato starch. All the varieties are adulterated with sago, tapioca, and potato starch. Another starch - yielding tuber is that of the Manihot, manioc, mandioc, or cassava plant. The roots have an acrid milky juice, speedily fatal owing to the presence of prussic acid. This is dissipated by heat, then the roots are grated, dried on hot metal plates and powdered. The starch thus ob- tained, sometimes called Brazilian arrowroot, is made like oat- meal into cakes known as cassava bread. From it Tapioca is made by heating it on a hot plate with constant stirring. The starch grains burst, some of the starch becomes dextrinized, and the whole gathers into small irregular masses known as Tapioca. It is agreeable, easily digested, and used like the other arrowroots for milk-puddings and soups. Salep was formerly much more used in England than now. It is an orchidaceous plant, and of the two tubers which it bears the younger and more solid is taken, in size varying from a cherry-stone to an olive. The tubers are cleaned, dipped (M173) M