93 THE CIRCULATION. SUMMARY. 1. Blood is a fluid tissue, consisting of plasma and corpuscles. 2. The function of plasma is to convey nutriment to the tissues. 3. The function of the red-corpuscles is to convey oxygen to them. 4. This oxygen is conveyed chemically, combined with haemoglo- bin, and the degree of oxidation accounts for the varying colour of blood. 5. Haemoglobin by decomposition in the spleen and liver fur- nishes most of the pigments of the body. 6. Clotting is clue to the formation of fibrin, a solid albumen, by the interaction of various substances in blood-plasma. 7. Serum is plasma deprived of its fibrin-factors. 8. Defibrinated blood is blood deprived of fibrin. Lesson 19.—THE CIRCULATION. This fluid tissue, blood, is "laid on" to every part of the body by a closed system of tubes, the blood-vessels, and the difference of pressure necessary to maintain such a circulation is obtained by introducing a force-pump, the heart, into one part of the circuit. In the mechanism of the circulation we distinguish the heart, arteries, capillaries, and veins. Arteries are vessels conveying blood from the heart, and they usually contain scarlet or oxygenated blood, hence called "arterial" blood; but those conveying blood to the lungs for aeration, convey, as might be expected, impure or " venous " blood ; the above definition will meet all cases. They were called "arteries" because after death they are generally found empty, while the veins are gorged with blood. When cut across, an artery exhibits three coats—an outer coat of connective tissue with elastic fibres, to give strength to the vessels; a middle layer of muscular as well as elastic fibres, and an inner layer consisting Of an elastic sheath lined by a very thin plating of cells known as endothelium. In virtue of their thick walls and elastic tissue arteries do not collapse when cut, as do the veins, and they are better able to resist pressure or injury. As an artery proceeds on its way from the heart it gives off branches which may join those from other vessels, so that an artery may be tied without apparently affecting very long the supply of blood to the part. Like all tissues, arteries require blood for their