261 FOOD IN SICKNESS. facts of feeble digestion most difficult to get accepted, not only by the patient, but often also by the doctor" (Yeo, Manual of Med. i. 152). Tea and coffee interfere with gastric digestion, and, if taken at all, are best taken 3 or 4 hours after a meal; but a glass of hot water will be found just as stimulat- ing, without any danger. Prof. Schulzenstein found that 94 per cent of coagulated white of egg was digested in 8 hours by an artificial gastric juice; of albumen and tea only 60 per cent, with coffee 61 per cent. In all cases of dyspepsia the guiding principles are to supply sufficient nutriment, but with that to give the enfeebled organ as little to do as possible, taking care, therefore, that the food supplied shall be strictly regulated by the digestive capacity of the stomach for the time being. As already explained, Constipation is due to deficiency of fluid in the intestine, and this may be rectified by increased use of liquids; thus a tumbler of cold water may be taken on rising and another before going to bed, with one of hot water half an hour before dinner. At the same time the intestinal glands may be stimulated to more vigorous action by a liberal use of oats, vegetables, and fruits, which contain much cellulose, and generally, the proportion of vegetable to animal food should be much increased. Intestinal activity is further promoted by using plenty of fresh butter, thus inducing a greater flow of bile. Honey, treacle, and gingerbread will be found useful aperients, while the free use of grapes, 4 to 6 lbs. daily, is alone sufficient to restore the normal state of matters. Anaemia or bloodlessness is often caused simply by deficiency in animal food, and may be remedied by increasing the pro- portion of the latter, especially in the form of yolk of egg, for the iron contained in it, milk and cream to supply fat, and meat as nearly raw as the patient can bear. Since the di- gestive powers share in the general weakness, food should be given in small quantities at a time. Among disorders of assimilation Liver Complaints demand attention. In all these the diet should be of the plainest possible description, and strictly limited in quantity, fats and carbohydrates being avoided, since it is with the digestion of these that the liver is chiefly concerned. Bread should be taken but sparingly, and as dry toast, and animal food in great moderation, but fruits and vegetables, cooked or in salads, may be drawn upon to supply the necessary nutriment. In cases of gall-stone eggs should be eschewed, since the yolk contains cholesterin, a constituent of gall-stones, and for a similar reason