271 METHODS OF COOKING. Since under ordinary circumstances water boils at 100° C., the case-hardening heat produced by boiling is greatly inferior to that in an oven, and so, in spite of all precautions, some of the meat juices will escape into the liquid before coagulation has been effected. The boiling-point may be raised by adding salt to the water, as is generally done; but if a much higher point is desired, that can only be obtained by the use of a Papin's digester, practically a high-pressure boiler. As increase of pressure raises the boiling-point, so diminution of pressure lowers it, and in this way water at the tops of mountains may boil at a temperature which will not cook an egg, much less a potato. In sugar-refining, advantage is taken of this property to secure the evaporation of sugar solutions and the formation of sugar-crystals at a low temperature, thus avoiding the for- mation of uncrystallizable sugar. In boiling, as in roasting, while the exterior is needlessly subjected to a temperature of 100° 0. or over, the interior as tested by a thermometer rarely shows more than 80°, and for the best flavour and digestibility the meat should not be much over 73 or 75° C, since all that is wanted is the complete coagulation of the albuminous matters. This will be better obtained by cooking a longer time at a lower temperature after the first sharp heat, and thus where gas-cookers are used the saving of fuel alone is considerable. In order to prevent care- less cooking from overheating, several appliances have been devised, more or less based on the principle of the familiar glue-pot, viz. a water-jacket. A Bain-marie, consists of two tin vessels, an outer larger one containing water, and an inner one ■with the article to be cooked, so that the latter is heated by the water in the outer chamber. For travelling purposes, when space is at a premium and impedimenta of all kinds at a discount, this arrangement has often a top compartment, in which the steam from the outer jacket is utilized to cook vege- tables or fish. As applied to vegetables, boiling attempts to soften cellulose, rendering it tender and digestible as far as it may be so, to burst the envelopes of starch grains and convert some of the starch into dextrin. Vegetable proteids are often in the form of legumin, not coagulated by heat, and in their case excessive heat, though a waste of fuel, does no great harm to the dish. All vegetables, however, even rice, contain salts and other soluble matters for which they are valued, and for the sake of which indeed green vegetables are taken at all, and to boil