THE CIRCULATION. 97 easily distinguished by a little flap, fancifully likened to a dog's ear. This is the Auricle, or collecting chamber (Latin aurus, an ear), and entering it are the two large veins whose business it is to return blood to the heart. The great mass of the heart consists of the pump-chamber or Ventricle, into which the auricle leads. See Plate, B, C, D. While the auricles are generally obscured by fat, the ven- tricles are free, and are seen to consist of muscular fibres, arranged spirally. On the outside, running from base to apex, there may be seen two grooves containing each an artery and a vein; these are the grooves between the ventricles, and are useful as marking from the outside the boundary between the left and right sides of the heart. In these grooves run the coronary vessels, which supply the heart itself with blood, for, like the blood-vessels, the heart is not supported by the blood within it, but has to get its supplies in the usual way. Now, cutting open the heart from auricle to ventricle, the internal structure becomes visible. The ventricles are really muscular bags, and by their contraction they expel the blood from the right ventricle into the lungs to be aerated, and from the left ventricle to the body generally. To prevent the return of the blood to the auricles, valves of connective tissue are pro- vided, attached to a fibrous ring between auricle and ventricle. Between the right auricle and the right ventricle the valve has three flaps, and this is called the Tricuspid valve, whereas on the left side there are only two such flaps, giving to the valve its name, the Bicuspid or Mitral valve. If the outer edges of these valves were loose they would be driven back altogether by the increasing pressure within the ventricle, but to prevent this they are kept taut by tendinous chords attached to their edges, and inserted, not into the ventricle wall direct, but into small muscles termed papillary muscles. There is thus a compensating action, for, when the ventricles are dilated with blood and beginning to contract, the flaps of the valves are opposed to one another so as to close the opening into the auricle, but as ventricular contraction proceeds the continued approach of the walls would tend to slacken the cords were it not for the fact that the papillary muscles also contract and keep the cords tight, thus holding the edges of the valve to- gether. Of course, if the edges of the valves are eaten away by disease, the natural consequence will be that some blood will get back into the auricle again, thus interfering with the whole circulation. (M173) G