THE LIVER AND BILE. 87 fats and the watery contents of the intestine and lacteals. This w as well shown by an experiment on dogs; In the normal condition 99 per cent of the fat eaten was absorbed, but when the bile was allowed to escape without entering the bowel, only 40 per cent was absorbed, the rest appearing in the faeces. The other function of the liver is clear enough up to a cer- tain point. Just as proteids are peptonized in the alimentary canal, then realbuminized before entering the blood; as fats are partly saponified, then reconverted into neutral fats; so starch and carbohydrates generally are turned into sugar by the digestive juices, only to be reconverted by the liver cells into animal starch, liver starch, or Glycogen. This substance can only be obtained from the liver of an animal recently killed, as in a few hours it becomes glucose. Glycogen is found else- where in the body, in the muscles, the white corpuscles, and in short wherever there are free developing animal cells; but it is found in greatest quantity in the liver, of which it constitutes 12 to 2-6 per cent. It is greatly increased by a diet of carbo- hydrates, slightly increased by a pure proteid diet, but greatly diminished by a purely fatty diet, while in hunger it disappears altogether. From these circumstances, Bernard, who discovered glycogen, was led to account for Glycogenesis by supposing that the sugar of the blood in the portal vein was converted into starch, in order to prevent the sudden influx of sugar into the blood, which would otherwise follow each meal. There is always a slight amount of sugar in the blood (J to 1 per 1000), and as in intervals of digestion the hepatic vein contained more than that, it was assumed that the function of the liver was to store up carbohydrates during digestion, allowing the glycogen formed to be reconverted gradually into sugar, thus acting as a regu- lator of sugar in the blood. Whenever the amount of sugar in the blood exceeds 3 parts per 1000 it appears in the urine, as if there was a temporary diabetes, a disease characterized by the presence of sugar in the urine. Eecent researches have confirmed Bernard's view, that in health the blood always con- tains a small amount of sugar which is consumed in the capil- laries, and removed as carbonic acid and water. Diabetes will thus occur when more sugar is added to the organism than can be consumed, or when the sugar consumption in the tissues is interfered with; and there are thus two forms of the disease, a form arising from disturbance of the glycogenic functions of the liver, and a graver form due to disturbance of assimilation