FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 110 direct to the renal vein, this again forms capillaries, spreading themselves over the twisted portions of tubule immediately outside the capsule (fig. 29). There is thus in the kidney on a small scale the same double set of capillaries already met with in the portal system. It would seem that in the malpighian bodies water is separted from the blood by the simple process of filtration under pressure, so that the higher the blood-pressure in the kidney the more water will be excreted. In birds, which have no malpighian bodies, the urine is solid. The solid constituents of urine are excreted chiefly by the cells of the convoluted tubules supplied by the second set of capillaries, so that the quality and quantity of urine are determined by two factors, the blood-supply and the vital activity of the urinary cell. From the kidneys urine is conveyed to the bladder by the Ureters, tubes 14 inches long and about the thickness of a piece of slate-pencil. These lead to the Bladder, a muscular bag lined with mucous membrane as usual, and here the urine accumulates till the increasing pressure induces evacuation by the urethra. The amount of Urine thus excreted is 50 fl. ozs., or 1\ pints daily in males, in females rather less. When freshly voided it is acid, owing to the presence of acid phosphate of soda, but on standing it decomposes and becomes alkaline from forma- tion of ammoniacal compounds. The chief mineral constituent of urine is common salt, which gets into urine by reason of its great solubility, and has thus to be supplied with food. The urine also contains sulphates from oxidation of sulphur in albumen, and phosphates by oxidation of the phosphorus in proteid matter and bone. By far the most important substance in urine, however, is the organic substance Urea, which represents the bulk of the nitrogenous waste of the body. It contains half its own weight of nitrogen, and the amount excreted daily is 500 grs., or rather more than 1 ounce. Urea is formed outside the kidney, chiefly in the liver, and is present in small quantities in all blood, and also in measurable amount in sweat. It is partly formed in the kidney as well as the liver, and is removed by the former organ. The amount of urea excreted does not depend on exercise, as was at one time supposed, but on the quality of the food taken, being increased by rich proteid or nitrogenous diets; indeed, if more albumen be ingested than what is required, some may appear in the urine unchanged.