CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS. PROTEIDS. 25 raw materials of hydrochloric acid, but aids in the solution of the meal On the contrary, meat pickled by soaking m brine Loses not merely water but a great part of its strength since t he albumens of muscle are dissolved out by the brine. In the case of milk, blood, and similar fluids, spontaneous coagulation of albuminous matter is effected by a ferment m presence of certain salts, notably those of lime, and the .product is m the case of milk, casein, in blood, fibrin. Casein, it will be remem- bered, was produced by the action of rennet or a mineral acid upon milk, and when milk turns sour a similar change takes place; the sugar of milk or lactose is decomposed by the action of an aerial ferment and becomes lactic acid, which in turn coagulates a milk-albumerl forming casein. Another milk- albumen may be got in the shape of the scum which forms when milk is heated; this is lact-albumen, and it coagulates at 77° C. The albumen of living muscle is myosin, but after death there sets in a peculiar change called rigor mortis, or death- stiffening, and as a consequence of this, lactic acid is formed, which again alters the myosin to syntonin or acid albumen. It is the last which is the chief proteid of meat. All these are animal albuminates, but there are two well- known vegetable proteids which occur in foods. Every school- boy has manufactured "cracking-caoutchouc" or chewing-gum out of wheat grains or wheaten flour. This is a vegetable albumen called gluten, from its sticky nature, and it may be prepared in a more acceptable fashion thus. Fill a muslin bag with wheaten flour, and knead it under running water; the starch of the flour will all be washed away as a milky stream, while the gluten remains in the bag as a stringy, sticky, yellowish mass. The presence of gluten in wheat, oats, and other cereals is important, as gluten represents almost the sole nitrogenous proximate principle in these grains. The cells containing it lie just under the husk, and if the grain be over- ground, in the desire to obtain a fine white flour, most of the gluten may be removed, leaving nothing but starch. It is to the gluten that wheaten flour owes the adhesive properties utilized in baking. Oatmeal actually possesses more proteid matter than wheat, but its gluten is not in the same form, and has not the same adhesive properties on adding water, hence oats and barley are with difficulty made into bread. Another vegetable albumen, found especially in pulse or pod-bearing plants, such as peas, beans, and lentils, is legumin, so called because these plants bear legumes or pods. These