FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 21G coffee than in tea, there is really more consumed, owing to the greater strength of the beverage, and this attains a maxi- mum in cafe noir. The physiological effects of coffee are .similar to those of tea, though the latter acts on the peripheral nerves, while coffee acts rather on the nerve-centres. Caffeine and theine are the same substance, but in coffee the caffeine is combined to form caffeo-tannic acid, a substance not so inhibitory of carbohydrate digestion as tannin alone. Since coffee is usually taken of a greater strength than tea, it has a stronger effect upon the stomach, and is apt to produce heartburn after a full meal, especially if taken as cafe" noir. Like tea it excites the skin and also the kidneys, so that the excretion of urea is increased; it has an aperient action on the bowels, and "strongly affects the muscular system, renewing its vigour. It is this quality which causes it to be prized by cyclists, pedestrians, and others who have a large mechanical output, and Parkes extols it as against alcohol for army use. " Not only is it invigorating without producing further collapse, but the hot infusion is almost equally serviceable against cold and heat ■ in the one case the warmth of the infusion, in the other the action on the skin, being useful, while in both cases the nervous stimulation is very desirable" (PracticalHygiene, p. 352). Negro Coffee, sometimes called Mogdacl Coffee, is prepared in a similar way from Fedegozo seeds (Cassia occidentalis), a plant grown in the West Indies and in the west of Africa. Its analysis shows the following composition:— Olein and margarine, .. 4-9 per cent. Tannic acid, .. 0-9 »» Sugar, .. 2-1 if Gum, .. 28-8 » Starch, .. 2-0 » Cellulose, ... .. 34-0 ti Water, .. 7-0 it Its properties are due to the colouring matter, achrosine, which forms 13-58 per cent of the ash, and consists of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen,, and sulphur. As will be seen, it contains no caffeine, and much less tannic acid than coffee, but it is largely used for adulterating coffee; and it is said that neither in appearance nor taste can such mixture be detected, if the proportion of negro coffee does not exceed one-fifth. Owing to its purgative properties it is sometimes called small senna, but these properties, due to the muci