FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 276 are inferior, consisting chiefly of bone, skin, and tendon. On the whole, perhaps the leg is superior to the shoulder for this purpose, and all meat used should be as fresh as possible. In the first place, care must be taken to have a well-made fire which will last without much addition of coal, and supply a constant gentle heat. The cover of the pot should be left slightly open, as broth becomes cloudy in a closed vessel. Now proceed as follows:—Separate the meat from the bones, tying up the former to keep its shape for serving, and chopping the bones into little bits. First put the bones in the pot and the meat upon them. Pour in the water cold and place the pot on the fire, add the salt and bring it to the boil, and as soon as the scum rises pour in a little cold water and skim with a perforated spoon. Let it boil three separate times, skimming each time, after which the broth should be sufficiently skimmed. Wipe carefully the edge of the pot, and add the vegetables, which will check the boiling for a few minutes; as soon as it begins again, place the pot on the corner of the fire, letting it simmer gently only, 5 hours for the large and 3 hours for the small pot-au-feu,—it is essential that the simmering be quite regular and continuous. When the broth is made, take out the meat and put it in a dish, taste the broth to see if it is salt enough; if more salt is wanted it should not be added till the broth is being served, and care should be taken not to salt the broth too highly at first, as it always becomes Salter on being warmed up on the second day, and still more so when reduced to a sauce. Another essential point is to free the broth per- fectly from grease, after the meat is taken out, the pot being still on the fire. The vegetables should be left in the pot only just long enough to cook them; by this time they have given their flavour to the broth, after which they only rob it of its goodness. It is generally considered, and justly so, that the broth should have a golden tint; the flavour is not improved thereby, but the eye is satisfied. Yet care should be taken not to alter the flavour, therefore if any colouring matter is to be used it should be caramel, while fried onion, fried carrot, and similar substances should be avoided for the reason given. A stronger extract than the pot-au-feu is Grand Bouillon, in which to the meat and vegetables already used there are added bones, connective tissue, tendon, &c, for the sake of the gelatin extracted from them. Consommi is the richest form of soup, and is made from beef, veal, and fowl, the last two roasted and sliced for the sake of