185 GREEN VEGETABLES. it appears in almost every dish, and there is no other fruit capable of being served in so many different ways. It may be boiled, fried, baked, roasted, stewed, pickled, preserved in various ways; and may enter into sauces, soups, ketchups, salads, &c. The unripe fruit makes one of the best of pickles. Itself the "prince of salads", the tomato is never better than w hen eaten fresh and raw. If cooked at all it should be in a plain manner, so as not to destroy its natural flavour, and it may be served hot, or eaten cold with salt and pepper, or sugar. Raw tomatoes should not be sliced for salad or such purposes until the last moment, since the juice speedily drains off, leaving simply a cellulose framework. "To serve a hot tomato by stuffing it with onion, parsley, and shallot, is mis- chievous meddling carried to its highest pitch." The tomato owes its pleasant sour taste to oxalic acid, and on that account, like rhubarb stalks, it is generally forbidden to those of gouty tendency, since oxalic acid forms insoluble salts with lime and magnesia. There was an opinion current that tomatoes encouraged cancer, and somehow a report spread that patients at the London Cancer Hospital had been forbid- den to use tomatoes. This report was promptly contradicted by the superintendent, who, so far from condemning the tomato, extolled it as "a wholesome article of food, particu- larly so if cooked ". The common Sorrel, Scotch sourock, the little sour plant, is also rich in oxalic acid, like the Oxalis or wood-sorrel, and it is on that account used in salads and sauces, and on the Con- tinent in soups, to which it gives a tart flavour resembling tomato soup. The leaf-stalks of Rhubarb also contain oxalic acid, along with citric and malic acids. They are largely used for tarts and pies, and also when young for preserving in syrup like ginger. Excessive use of rhubarb tends to thin the blood and produce outstrikes on the skin. SUMMARY. 1. Green vegetables contain little nutriment, but are valued for their essential oils and antiscorbutic salts, as well as for their laxative effects due to cellulose. 2. The cabbage tribe all contain sulphur, and therefore tend to flatulence. 3. The onion tribe are nutritious, and contain oil of onions.