BLACKIE AND SON'S SCIENCE CATALOGUE. 3 BLACKIE'S SCIENCE TEXT-BOOKS. SUITABLE FOE SCIENCE AND AKT AND OTHER EXAMINATIONS. ADVANCED SERIES. Elementary Text-Book of Dynamics and Hydrostatics {Theoretical Mechanics, Elementary and Advanced). By R. H. Pinkebton, B.A., Balliol College, Oxford; Lecturer, University College, Cardiff; Examiner, Glasgow University. F'cap 8vo, cloth, 3s. 6c*. "The subject is treated mathematically, but the mathematical knowledge required for an intelligent perusal of the book is limited to elementary algebra and trigonometry. The fundamental units are thoroughly well explained, and, which is saying a great deal, they are used consistently throughout. Every important proposition is followed by a number of good examples fully worked out and many others are given as exercises. ... It is thoroughly conscientious. In 'fact, from a mathematical point of view, the book leaves nothing to be desired."—Natu re. "It contains all those parts of the subject which can be treated without a knowledge of the higher branches of pure mathematics. The matter is arranged in accordance with the most modern ideas, and the preliminary chapters on kinematics and the principles of dynamics and statics are very carefully written, the definitions and proofs being clear and the explanations ample."—Journal of Education. " ' Dynamics' is a term now generally understood as the science of force. Con- sequently, this work includes statics, the whole forming what was formerly known as mechanics. After a careful perusal of the book, we can confidently recommend it. It bears the mark of great care in explaining principles.' — Education. "This text-book may be read with advantage by candidates for the London Matriculation and Inter. Science and similar examinations. It will be found of great value to backward students."—University Correspondent. Hydrostatics and Pneumatics. By B, H. Pinkerton, b.a., Balliol College, Oxford; Lecturer, University College, Cardiff; Examiner, Glasgow University. Crown 8vo, cloth, 4s. 6cZ. " This is a good and complete work on the subject. It is a successful attempt to produce a book suitable for students who have not been through a course in mechanics. . . . Mr. Pinkerton writes in a clear and interesting style, the various propositions being well explained. Numerous examples are attached to each chapter, and a complete set of answers is given at the end. The book is well printed and illustrated. ... We have no hesitation in recommending this work to students and teachers."—Journal of Education. " In Mr. Pinkerton's treatise we find a somewhat more extensive treatment of the subject than is usually met with in an elementary work. ... He provides us with a manual likely to be very useful to the student who wishes to acquire a fairly wide knowledge of the subject, without the formal use of infinitesimal methods. A good feature of the work also is the free employment of experi- mental illustrations and verifications, and the elaborate and clear illustration of apparatus. Both these points are noteworthy, when we consider how many otherwise good text-books suffer from the defects which are here successfully avoided."—Educational Review. " The author is especially clear in his explanations, and his remarks are in many cases accompanied with diagrams and illustrations, which are always of great help to the reader studying the subject for the first time. As a text-book for science schools, and suitable for those wishing to get a thorough insight into the subject, the book will be sure to find favour."—Nature.