55 PROCESSES IN THE MOUTH. glib, under, and maxilla, the jaw) and sub-lingual (Lat. lingua, the tongue) lie in the lower jaw, and pour their saliva into the mouth by several openings under the tongue, where it may be seen swelling out when the appetite is excited by anything which " makes the teeth water ". Saliva is a clear watery fluid, slightly alkaline, and sticky from the mucus found in it. The inducement of a flow of saliva by the presence in the mouth of anything appetizing is a familiar example of "reflex action". Generally before vomit- ing there is a sudden flow of saliva. The total amount secreted daily is very considerable, and is estimated at from 7 to 50 ounces, the latter quantity being 2| pints! Tea has a marked effect upon the salivary glands, arresting their activity, and it has the same effect upon the similar juice from the pancreas; and as these are the only bodily juices capable of digesting starchy matters, it is obvious that the common practice of drinking tea at meals is a mistake, and that tea should be used as a stimulant only, three or four hours after meals. Until a child begins to cut its teeth the amount of saliva is small, and it contains little or no ptyalin. Since the similar ferment in pancreatic juice is also undeveloped, infants must not be fed upon starchy foods like arrowroot; indeed, in France for a whole year a child is debarred by law from receiving solid food, except by medical prescription. The principle of supply- ing solid food in a soluble form has been embodied in such an infant food as Mellin's, in which all starchy matters are malted, i.e. already converted into maltose and dextrin. Besides its digestive action, saliva aids the sense of taste by dissolving food, since it is impossible to perceive any taste in an insoluble substance. In infants fed by the bottle, the mouth is often infested by a white parasitic fungus known as "thrush". This is due to unclean feeding, and can easily be removed by a little borax. The popular remedy, honey and borax, is quite useless, as the parasite thrives on the honey, which thus destroys the germi- cide action of borax. Feeding-bottles and their appliances should be kept scruplously clean, and siphoned out by boiling water immediately after use, and before any milk left in them clogs the tubing. It is a good plan to have two bottles, the unused one filled with borax solution, in hot weather especially. Under the combined action of the teeth and the various glands, the food, now worked up into a well-lubricated ball, is ready for being propelled into the stomach. The operation