FOOD AND DIET. 247 within the body, leading to irritation of the excretory organs. Gout is commonly induced by alcohol and other liquids which interfere with metabolism. Great excess of proteids without any other food produces in five days febrile symptoms, malaise and diarrhoea, followed by the appearance of albumen m the urine. Defect of food in the case of starches is well borne if fat be supplied, but if fat be withheld illness follows in a few days. Absence of fat is not well borne even if carbohydrates be given, while the absence of salts leads to marked results. If proteids are reduced the body loses strength, and its activity is lowered to meet this loss, thus throwing it open to the attacks of all specific diseases, notably malaria and typhus. If no proteids at all are given, the effects are visible only after some days, the animal drawing upon its own tissues; then the muscles lose strength, mental debility |sets in with feverish and dyspeptic symptoms, afterwards anaemia and severe prostration. The excretion of urea never ceases though reduced in amount, showing that the tissues themselves are being consumed. The evidence on both sides in the matter of vegetarianism may be mentioned here. Man has become by long habit a mixed feeder, but not more than \ of his food should be of an animal nature, since if more is given the organs excreting nitrogenous waste have their work largely increased, and the retrograde metabolism which causes gout and similar disorders may be induced. Animal food has been condemned in cancer, and Beneke's diet for that disease reduces the proportion of animal food from \ down to \ or |. Cancer cells contain cholesterin and lecithin, the former derived from proteids, along with alkaline and earthy phosphates; he therefore vetoes all animal and vegetable substances which contain these substances. Excess of animal food increases the amount of fibrin in blood, and the number of red corpuscles; it also in- creases the amount of phosphates and ash, and gives firmness and tone to muscle. The urine is rendered more acid, whereas a vegetable diet makes it alkaline; in a sucking calf the urine is acid, though the urine of herbivora is alkaline. It leads to the disappearance of superfluous fat, and upon this was founded the old treatment of corpulence. Since animal food remains longer in the stomach it allays hunger sooner than vegetable food, which is chiefly digested in the intestine; it is more stimulating, and being more easily digested, passes rapidly into the circulation, animal proteid containing only 3 per cent of indigestible matter, whereas in vegetable proteid the propor-