THE KIDNEYS AND URINE. 113 liver this sugar is converted into glycogen or liver-starch, and thus prevented from immediately passing into the blood. As already seen, according to Bernard's theory of Glycogenesis, the liver acted as a storehouse for carbohydrates till such time as they could be reconverted into sugar, thus distributing over 24 hours the sugar with which the blood would otherwise be loaded after every meal. When the sugar did enter the blood in these small quantities, Bernard held that it was consumed in the capillaries like ordinary fuel, liberating muscular energy and animal heat, and producing as waste products carbonic acid and water. On this theory the presence of sugar in urine indicated, on the one hand, failure of liver function owing to the liver cells not forming glycogen, or transforming it into sugar again too rapidly, or too great a flow of blood through that organ, as if the cells had not time to separate the sugar; or, on the other hand, that the sugar liberated by the liver was not being used up by the tissues, the vital fire, as it were, burning badly and giving off unconsumed fuel as smoke in addition to the ordinary products of combustion. The other theory of the glycogenic function is due to Pavy. He admits that the liver arrests sugar from the digestive canal and changes it into glycogen, but he denies that this glycogen is again transformed into sugar. The small amount of sugar always found in blood, says he, is traceable to the sugar which reaches the blood from the thoracic duct, and any sugar which appears in the mine is directly proportional to this amount of sugar in the blood. On this view the liver not merely arrests sugar, but assimilates it, transforming it into glycogen, which may be further changed into fat. As already mentioned (p. 87), most authorities are returning to Bernard's theory. In any case, what occurs in diabetes is failure in the utilization of sugar, and that is due to failure of the action of the liver, either from disorder of the liver itself, or possibly from dis- order of the sympathetic nervous system, thus permitting a too-rapid passage of blood through the liver. The dietetic treatment of glycosuria is based upon these facts, and simply consists in withholding from the patient all foods which can be turned into sugar within the organism, i.e. all carbohydrates. In very severe cases, however, sugar is formed out of nitrogenous materials, and even at the expense of the muscles; this may be said to be incurable by dietetic means. Food will thus be as much as possible restricted to proteids and fats with water; combined, especially in patients (M173) H