169 THE CEREALS. with use. A very good bread is made from a mixture of rye flour and wheat flour in the proportion of 1 : 2. Of all the cereals rye is most subject to attacks of the fungus called Ergot, a fungus which causes the grain to swell up and assume a dark-purple colour. The ergotized grains are easily sifted from the rest on account of their greater size, but when taken in large quantity they cause vomiting, convulsions, and gangrene. Ergot of rye is an invaluable drug in midwifery. Maize, or Indian Corn, used to be reckoned the richest of the cereals in fat; but this position has now been given to oats. Maize fat has a yellowish colour, and tends to spoil on keeping; it is thus very suitable for fattening animals, but for human use it is often treated with potash to saponify its fat and at the same time remove the peculiar flavour of maize. This makes the grain more palatable but less nutritious, and forms prepared in this way go by the names of Oswego prepared corn, corn-flour, and hominy. Owing to its deficiency in gluten, hominy is used in the United States like oats for baking into " hoe-cakes " as they are called. In Italy, polenta is a kind of porridge made from maize meal and chestnuts, and in the same country there is found pellagra, a disease like scurvy, which has been traced to a maize fungus. The grain is deficient in salts as compared with other cereals. As the analyses show, Rice is much less nutritious than the other cereals, being deficient in everything but starch, which, however, it contains in a very digestible form, almost unac- companied by cellulose. On account of this poorness in proteids, fats, and salts, rice is rarely taken alone, but com- bined with other foods like meat or legumes, rich in proteids, or made into puddings with eggs or milk. It cannot be made into bread, but rice flour is often added to wheaten flour, especially in France, to give a white bread close in texture. Rice forms the staple food of one-third of the human race. The whole grain is called "Paddy", and is coloured in various shades of yellow; when this coloured skin has been removed the grain is known as rice. Since rice contains such a small proportion of proteids and salts it should not be boiled, or, if boiled, the rice-water should be concentrated and used for stock. The best way of cooking rice is by steaming until the starch grains burst. Rice-water flavoured with sugar and lemon is a favourite cooling drink in India. According to Parkes, the larger American grains have often much less flavour than the smaller and less attractive Indian varieties.