63 INTESTINAL DIGESTION. cause it to press upon the heart, causing the pain known as "heartburn", accompanied by eructations of intensely sour fermenting matter, familiarly known as " water-brash ". The stomach naturally contains gases, derived partly from air swallowed, and partly from the intestine. Of the air taken in with food, nearly all the oxygen is absorbed by the blood, being replaced by twice the bulk of carbonic acid gas, so that the latter instead of being only -04 per cent as in the atmos- phere, bulks as largely as from 21 to 33 per cent. In butyric fermentation hydrogen also is produced, ranging from 6 to 27 per cent, and there may be, in addition, hydrocarbons and other gases from the intestine. SUMMARY. 1. The stomach is a muscular bag, lined with mucous membrane. 2. In the mucous membrane are the gastric glands, secreting gastric juice. 3. Gastric juice contains free hydrochloric acid, and the ferments pepsin and rennin. 4. Eennin curdles milk; pepsin changes proteids into albumoses, and finally into peptones. 5. Water and soluble materials are absorbed by the stomach vessels. 6. All other food-stuffs—fats, starches, sugars, are scarcely affected by the stomach. Lesson 13.—INTESTINAL DIGESTION. After leaving the stomach the digesting mass of chyme passes by the pyloric valve into the small intestine, a tube about 20 feet long. The first part of this tube, about 10 inches in length, is the duodenum, and it forms a sort of horse-shoe, curving backwards and downwards. About the middle of it there enter the duodenum by the same opening two important juices, the bile from the liver and the pancreatic juice from the pancreas or sweetbread. The duodenum is continued without change of structure into the jejunum or upper third of the small intestine, and this again passes into the ileum. Although these parts of the bowel are distinguished by different names, there is no structural distinction between them. The whole intestinal canal in man is about nine times the length of the