FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 246 from diarrhoea, affections of the heart and kidneys, foot-and mouth disease, pleurisy, and pneumonia. In cases where the animal has been slaughtered to anticipate death from such causes as bowel obstruction, catarrh, prolapse, and in sudden death from choking, apoplexy, or parturition, the meat may be eaten with impunity provided the blood be thoroughly drained off, while if the animal dies from an acci- dent or through surgical operations the meat is not affected at all. " Braxy is the name given to the flesh of sheep which have died from natural causes, and it forms the bulk of the animal food of shepherds; but even this is never eaten except after pickling or smoking, followed by thorough cooking, and treated in this way no evil consequences follow. Diseases of vegetables are generally caused by fungi attack- ing them either while growing, owing to special conditions of soil and climate, or by imperfect storage. To this class belongs the smut and bunt of wheat, ergot of rye, pellagra caused by the maize fungus encouraged by damp storage, the aspergillus of damp flour, the moulds of cheese, and the fungus which attacks potatoes. Though the latter is killed by boiling, diseased potatoes should not be used as food, since though the fungus is killed its products remain, and it is these which have a toxic influence upon the consumer. Although food be perfectly good in itself, still various dis- orders may arise from neglect of the rules as to the proper kind and amount. Excess of food may not be absorbed at all, giving rise to increased putrefaction in the intestine, and causing dyspepsia, constipation, then irritation of the bowel and diarrhoea. Some of the putrefying proteid matters may get reabsorbed, setting up blood-poisoning, and this is seen in a mild form in heavi- ness and foul breath, fever and torpor, while jaundice even may be induced through the obstruction of bile. If the excess is absorbed the results are more varied. There is a limit to the digestion of starch and fat, and if given in too large quan- tities these substances appear unchanged in the faeces. Sugar is absorbed in large quantity. Excess of fats and starches delays nitrogenous metabolism and leads to the storage of fat within the body. Too much starch also causes acidity and wind in the stomach, and may even lead to the appearance of sugar in the urine. Excess of proteids produces congestion and enlarge- ment of the liver and plethora. If exercise is not taken to cor- respond, oxidation is reduced and waste products are retained