MILK DERIVATIVES. BUTTER. 133 artificial butter is greatly to be preferred to badly prepared butter. The well-earned reputation of Danish butter has been due to the almost paternal supervision shown by the Danish government in respect of preparation and packing, and it has completely ousted Irish butter from first place, though there is some likelihood of that place being yielded to butter from Australia and New Zealand. Butter-milk, like skim-milk, is a food prized not nearly so highly as it ought to be. It contains all the constituents of milk, for owing to the association of casein and fat already mentioned, it is never free from fat. Two analyses are given below:— No. 1. No. 2. Water, 90-62 Average total solids, ... 9-43 Casein, ... 378 Solids not fat, ... ... 8-56 Fat 1-25 Fat, 7 Lactose, 3'38 Salts, 75 Lactic acid,... ... ... "32 • Salts -65 Some of the lactose in the milk is changed into lactic acid, and the proportion of the latter tends to increase, causing the sourness of butter-milk, and latterly precipitating casein, while by the absorption of oxygen and evolution of carbonic acid gas the milk may froth up. It is to the pressure of lactic acid in butter-milk that the latter owes its usefulness in baking; of course, when baking-soda is used with it there is formed lactate of soda, which remains in the bread. In cases of indigestion, when the stomach is weak from any cause, such as catarrh or ulceration, a distinguished specialist has said: " When the patient is thirsty, let him drink butter-milk; when the patient is hungry, let him eat butter - milk "; and the consideration of the composition of butter-milk abundantly justifies his opinion. For purposes of comparison, an analysis of Skim-milk may be useful. Water, 88-0 ... 90-63 Proteids, 4-0 ... 3'06 Fat 1-8 ... 0-79 Lactose, 5*4 ... 477 Salts, 0.8 ... — From this it will be seen that all the solids not fat are contained in skim-milk, and therefore its specific gravity is high. In skim-milk proper there is always a small amount of fat, -8 to 1 per cent, but in milk separated by the centrifugal