L56 Fool) AND ITS FUNCTIONS. fync herrings are dignified with the name "Glasgow magis- trates". When smoked for an hour or two they are called "bloaters", and this is the most profitable form of cured herring. As the smoking continues they become successively kippers, red herring, and even black herring. The great majority of the herring caught are made into red herring; black herring are chiefly exported to Roman Catholic countries. Roe is rather a delicacy than a food, and is used either fresh or salted, and pickled in various ways. The hard roe is the ovary, the soft roe or milt is the spermatic organ of the male. Caviare is salted sturgeon's roe. The sound is the swimming-bladder, and that of the cod is occasionally used as food. The best kind of isinglass is pre- pared from the lining membrane of sturgeon's sound. Shell-fish consumed as food belong to the two natural divi- sions of crustaceans and molluscs, and are chiefly marine forms. They are all prohibited by Jewish law. The Crustacea are represented by the lobster, crab, crayfish, shrimp, and prawn. They are very nutritious, but at the same time highly indi- gestible, and tend to induce skin disorders, such as nettle-rash, more especially in gouty and rheumatic subjects, in whom metabolism is not so thorough as usual. All shell-fish should be eaten very fresh, as they decompose rapidly, developing poisonous products in the process; lobsters and crabs especially may give rise to diarrhoea and vomiting accompanied by giddi- ness and nausea. As a rule, the Crustacea are foul feeders, and this constitutes another source of danger to the consumer. Among the Crustacea the Lobster is more delicate and digestible than the crab, and the flesh of the claws is better than that of the tail. It decomposes rapidly, especially in hot weather, but this is to a large extent obviated by keeping the animals alive in the shops, and, indeed, until cooking. The bright-red part within the animal's body is the ovary. Lobster spa wn is very nutritious, and is often worked into sauces for the sake <>f its flavour and colour. The Crab is altogether inferior to the lobster. Its flesh is tougher, and consequently harder to digest. The liver is the soft part inside the shell, and is the most nutritious part of the animal, though heavier on account of the fat it contains. The Crawfish or Crayfish, a fresh-water species, is more delicate than lobster, and is preferred to it, especially m I'aiis, to which great quantities come from the river Meuse. It is supposed to be more digestible when eaten hot, and it enters into the composition of bisque soup. The Sea Craufish