144 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. contains therefore the ordinary constituents of muscle, but the proportions will be greatly altered by the amount of fat present, and also if the blood has been drained off or retained. About three-fourths of flesh consists of water, only one-fourth being solids, and those chiefly proteids, for the most part insoluble in water. In living muscle the soluble proteid is in the form of muscle-albumen or myosin; but after death there sets in the "death-stiffening" or rigor mortis, a coagulation of the muscle- albumen due to the development of lactic acid, and when the flesh has passed through this stage its albumen is in the state of syntonin or acid-albumen. When this rigor mortis is oyer, the flesh begins to decompose, at first slowly, and this incipient decomposition makes it more tender and better flavoured for a short time. In the case of " wild " flesh, game for instance, where the muscles are very firm and hard, the meat is often "hung" till the parts become tender by advancing decompo- sition. Since meat is rarely eaten until rigor mortis has passed off, it is thus syntonin and not myosin that enters into food, and the various processes of cooking aim generally at further coagulating the syntonin by the aid of heat. Besides being converted into syntonin by acids, myosin may be con- verted into alkali-albumen by alkalies, but this is a change which rarely occurs in cookery. It is also soluble in salt solution to the extent of one-tenth, a fact of some importance in connection with the pickling of meat. Besides myosin, animal flesh contains about 2 per cent of serum- albumen derived from the blood in it, and this can be extracted by cold water, though coagulated by heat. The colouring matter of meat is chiefly derived from the haematin of the blood, and can be washed out by water. The foregoing, with some other substances amounting to about 5 or 6 per cent, constitute the soluble albuminous matters, and this represents therefore the ' maximum strength of an aqueous extract like beef-tea; the remaining 14 or 15 per cent of proteids are insoluble m water, though dissolved by the digestive juices. The table on p. 145 will give some idea of the relative pro- portions of these substances as found in various classes of meat From these figures it will be seen that the amount of fat may vary considerably, and that the water and nitrogenous materials are very much reduced in fat meat Fat meat con- tains a greater store of energy than lean, but it is neither palatable nor easy of digestion, except by people who have to work under severe climatic conditions.