186 FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 4. Gourds and melons contain little else than water, and are rather useful as cooling drinks than as foods. 5. Tomatoes, sorrels, and rhubarb contain oxalic and other acids. 6. Asparagus and celery have distinct medicinal effects. Lesson 35.—FUNGI. Fungi bulk very largely among the food-stuffs of southern Europe, especially among the poor in France, Germany, and Italy; in the Roman market alone the yearly turnover of fungi amounts to £4000. They are eaten raw, and since they all decompose easily they cannot be eaten too fresh; but they are also used dried, or preserved by cooking in brine, olive-oil, or vinegar, which takes away the acrid qualities of some of the more suspicious varieties. Fungi are fairly rich in nitrogen- ous substances, though it is doubtful if these are assimilated; they all contain fatty matters, fungic acid, and sugar as man- nite and dextrose, while some contain an acrid substance which is destroyed as above, and also dissipated on boiling. They are used in this country chiefly for their flavour, and also for pickling and making ketchup. The personal equation bulks largely in the use of fungi; common mushrooms even prove irritating in the highest degree to some people. Poisonous fungi are comparatively few, but as they closely resemble the edible forms, some distinctions must be observed. The common notion that poisonous fungi might be detected by discolouring a silver spoon owing to the presence in them of sulphur compounds is unreliable. The poisonous varieties are recognized generally by their high colour, scaly or spotted sur- face, and flesh either tough or watery. They usually grow in clusters upon wet or shady ground. On bruising they show a play of colours and yield a pungent milk, while their taste is bitter or burning the throat; on drying they become bluish. The poisonous matters in these belong to the class of narcotico- irritants, and cases of poisoning are best treated by the free use of emetics and castor-oil. Edible fungi, on the other hand, are seldom high-coloured, scaly, or spotted, but are generally red or brownish. They break with a brittle fracture, retain their colour on drying, and grow best upon open, dry pastures. They have an agreeable smell and taste, but in some species any acrid taste may be dissipated by heat.