275 METHODS OF COOKING. making of beef-tea already described, and this is really a type of the process. Meat must be cut up into suitable pieces in order to present a large surface to the extracting liquid, while to increase its solvent power a little vinegar as well as salt is added for tough meat and vegetables, or even a very little hydrochloric acid. In no case must the heat reach the coag- ulation-point of albumen, 73° C, so that vegetables which require higher temperatures to soften them must be cooked separately, preferably by steam, and added to the soup at the proper time, or the common practice may be followed of put- ting on the vegetables first at a high temperature, then cooling, and adding the meat. Last of all are the flavourings, herbs and others, which would have much of their odourous sub- stances dissipated by overheating if added sooner. The simplest and weakest soup is the product of the Stock- pot. This useful article receives all meat and vegetable trim-, mings and scraps which have been withdrawn from previous dishes, all water in which meat or vegetables have been boiled, everything, in short, which contains nutriment in either the solid or the liquid form. It stands continually on the hob, thus gradually concentrating its contents, and producing a true meat or vegetable soup called Stock, which may be used instead of water, say for boiling fowls, thus giving a higher boiling- point than water, and at the same time preserving the nutri- ment which always escapes from meat in boiling. On the same lines, but more elaborate in detail, is the French peasant's Pot-au-feu. This is really a good Scotch broth of meat and vegetables, but made with stock instead of water, and, as in the home product, the boiled beef is intended to be eaten immediately after the soup. Since the pot-au-feu is the basis of nearly all soups—and there are over 500 known to French cooks, —Gouffe's description of the materials and modus operandivfill be useful. Forthe small pot-au-feu, furnishing broth for 4 or 5 persons, there are required nearly 2 lbs. meat, includ- ing 5 ozs. of bone, 7 pints water, 1 oz. salt, 5J ozs. carrots and the same of onions and turnips, 7 ozs. leeks, nearly \ oz. celery, 1 clove stuck in an onion, and nearly 1 oz. parsnip. Some add a little garlic, but its flavour tends to destroy the aroma of the broth, and further renders it unsuitable for the use of invalids. For the large pot-au-feu double the quantities of meat and vegetables, but use only 10^ pints of water. The portions of beef adapted for the pot-au-feu are the thick portion of the leg and shoulder; the lower parts, from the knee down,