FOOD AND ITS FUNCTIONS. 238 It is this influence of alcohol on metabolism, its power of interfering with tissue-change, which forms the sole rational ground for its employment. In small doses it may be valuable as a means of saving the tissues in wasting diseases, for it is so readily oxidized into water and carbonic acid that it saves the materials of the body from being drawn upon, thus earning its reputation among French dietetists as a "moyen d'epargne". All this, however, is true only if the use of alcohol be restricted Avithin the physiological maximum. It is generally agreed that under ordinary conditions the body cannot assimilate more than 1 ounce or at most 1^ ounce of pure alcohol per day, and as spirits generally contain 50 per cent of alcohol, this would mean 2 ounces (a gill is 5 ounces) of whisky, &c, or of strong wine from £ to | pint, of light wines or strong beers from h pint to a pint, and of continental beers about a pint and a half. All above this is excess, and has a distinctly injurious effect upon the body, and yet how few there are, men who would not like to be called even "moderate drinkers", who confine themselves to these limits. The truth is, that whatever excuse men make to others for indulging in alcohol, the real motive is literally a psychical one, they take it because they like it, and one of the most damning indictments against alcohol is the moral cowardice which it produces, for it affects all the faculties, beginning with the highest. It begins by quickening the judgment and imagination, then dulling them, the lower centres of speech, sight, taste, and hearing are next affected, then the centre of co-ordinated muscular movements is para- lysed and the person staggers in his gait, later on the motor centres are altogether paralysed and the person becomes "dead drunk ", last of all this paralysis affects the centres of involun- tary movements, such as those of the heart and lungs, and this produces alcoholic insensibility ending in death. Landois and Stirling (4th edition) give the following summary of the effects of alcohol in small doses, within the physiological limit:— 1. 95 per cent is oxidized, forming water and carbonic acid. This takes place very readily, and in this way alcohol may be a substitute for tissue consumption, since decomposition of pro- teids is diminished by it to the extent of 6-7 per cent. The odour of the breath is due to small quantities of volatile sub- stances, fusel-oil, &c, contained in the liquor, and not to alcohol itself. 2. Small doses excite, large doses paralyse the nervous system, beginning with the higher centres.