VEGETABLE FOODS. 159 albumen differs largely from animal albumen. Vegetable proteid matters appear under the forms of—(1) Vegetable albumen, not unlike egg-albumen, and coagulated by heat; (2) Legumin, sometimes called vegetable casein, because, like the latter, it is coagulated by rennet and acids, but not by heat; (3) the Glutin class of bodies, comprising glutin-casein, glutin-fibrin, gliadin, and mucedin; and (4) other nitrogenous substances, such as asparagin, which are useless as food. Taken in all, vegetable proteid matter is less digestible and less easy to assimilate than animal proteid. When rich, as in beans and peas, the presence in it of a large amount of sulphur leads to flatulence, owing to the formation of sulphuretted hydrogen and other sulphur compounds. " Vegetables are poor in fats, oats and maize heading the list in respect of fat. Cocoa-nut oil, palm-oil, and cacao-butter are examples of solid vegetable fats, but only the last is commonly used as food; while the liquid fats are represented by olive-oil and its adulterant cotton-seed oil, as well as almond-oil, which constitutes 50 per cent of the sweet almond often used in pastry and sweetmeats. Vegetable oils are often classed for commercial purposes as drying and non-drying oils, the former being distinguished by the fact that on exposure to air they absorb oxygen and become dry and solid. The most impor- tant drying oils are those of linseed, hemp, walnut, and poppy, the last being the most palatable; while castor - oil, which gradually hardens on long exposme, forms a link between the two classes. The non-drying oils, including olive-oil and cotton-seed .oil, are those chiefly used as food. In addition to these, which are obtained by pressure, most plants contain volatile or essential oils, to which they owe their fragrance. They are called volatile, because while stain- ing paper like any oil the stain disappears, as would happen in the case of a substance like benzene. These essential oils are diffused through every part of the plant, but are concentrated in certain parts; thus in the orange, lemon, &c, they may be found in the rind; in the rose tribe they reside chiefly in the petals; in umbelliferse chiefly in the seeds; and so on. Though mainly used in perfumery, they enter largely into dishes or flavourings, and act as condiments to excite the appetite and stimulate the several digestive juices. Carbohydrates form the great bulk of vegetable foods, and are represented by starch, cellulose, and sugar. The general properties of these have already been described in lesson 8,