228h ganglion; and that the communication with the auriculo-temporal nerve, formerly- considered as a sensory root of the ganglion, is now said to be a branch (excito-secretory) to the parotid gland. "The otic ganglion receives, through its connection with the nerve to the internal pterygoid, fibres from the inferior maxillary nerve, and these may be regarded as constituting its moto?-a,nd sensory roots; the sympathetic root is a filament or two passing forwards from the plexus on the middle meningeal artery. The ganglion is also joined posteriorly by the small superficial petrosal nerve, which connects it with, and probably conveys to it fibres from, the facial and glosso-pharyngeal nerves; and a slender sphenoidal filament ascends from it to the Vidian nerve." " The branches are as follows :—(a) Two or more pale branches pass backwards to the roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve, and convey secretory fibres from the glosso- pharyngeal nerve to the parotid gland ; (b) A communicating branch descends to the chorda tympani; (c, d, e) Slender filaments pass from the ganglion to the nerves supplying the internal pterygoid, tensor palati, and tensor tympani muscles; (/) A filament joins the buccal nerve." Pneumogastric and Spinal Accessory Nerves. The pharyngeal branch of the pneumogastric is now believed to consist mainly of motor fibres derived from the bulbar or accessory portion of the spinal accessory ; and the motor fibres from this source are now said to reach, not only the constrictor muscles of the pharynx, but also the muscles of the soft palate, the tensor palati excepted. [The current statement to the effect that the levator palati and azygos uvuloi receive their nerve supply from the facial nerve through Meckel's ganglion must therefore be revised, though, of course, on purely physiological grounds.] The tensor palati is said to be supplied from the inferior maxillary nerve through its internal pterygoid branch and the otic ganglion ; and the tensor tympani is said to be supplied in the same way (Quain). This also is stated, of course, on physiological grounds. The stylo-pharyngeus and the middle constrictor (the latter in part) are still said to be supplied by the glosso- pharyngeal. Both pueumograstic a,nd facial nerves appear to give off branches to the tongue. The lingual branch of the pneumograstic (Lushka) is a slender filament of the pharyngeal plexus, derived, in all probability, from the spinal accessory and the glosso-pharyngeal; it is said to reach the tongue by joining with the hypoglossal nerve as it winds round the occipital artery. The lingual branch of the facial is said to leave the trunk of that nerve near the stylo-mastoid foramen, and to cross the outer surface of the stylo-pharyngeus and the superior constrictor, joining with the glosso-pharyngeal, and then to reach the base of the tongue by passing between the tonsil and the anterior pillar of the fauces ; it is said to supply the stylo-glossus and the stylo-pharyngens, and, along with the glosso-pharyngeal, the papillae of the mucous membrane. (Testut.) The Recurrent Laryngeal Nerves. The left recurrent laryngeal nerve embraces the arch of the aorta on the left side of the ductus arteriosus. This relation is significant. Correctly speaking, and as