228/ THE LARYNX-3rd Tablet. MUSCLES of the GLOTTIS — Are four on each side, and one in the middle line. CricO-ThyroideUS - Front & sides of cricoid cartilage. Lower border & inferior coruu of thyroid cartilage, - S. by snperior laryn geal nerve. Tilts the thyroid cartilage faj-wards, and thus elongates of tenses the vocal cords. Thyro-ArytsenoideUS - Lower part of receding angle of thyroid cartilage, & posterior surface of crico-thyroid membrane. By two fasciculi into anterior surface of arytaenoid cartilage, and intij anterior or internal angle of its base. - S. by recurrent laryngeal nerve. Draws the aryta;noid cartilage forwards, and thus shortens and relaxes the vocd, cords; it also assists in compressing the sacculns laryngis. The former action is thai of its lower & stronger fasciculus, which lies parallel with, & on the outer sid^ of, the inferior or true vocal cord; the latter action is that of its upper & thinnei fasciculus, which lies on the outer side of the sacculus laryngis. CricO-ArytsenoideUS Lateralis - Side of uj^jjer bonier of cricoid cartilage. External or posterior angle of base of aryttenoid cartilage. - S. by recur rent laryngeal nerve. The two muscles rotate the arytcrnoid cartilages so as to bring together thei anterior or internal angles &=■ the true vocal cords which are attached to them, am thii? constrict the glottis. Crico-Arytsenoideus Posticus - Broad depression on side of posterior surface o cricoid cartilage. External or posterior angle of base of arytenoid cartilage. - S. by recur rent laryngeal nerve. The two muscles rotate the arytanoid cartilages so as to separate their anterior o. internal angles cr= the true vocal cords which are attached to them, and thus dilate th, glottis. Arytsenoideus - Posterior surface & outer border of both arytenoid cartilages, pre senting superficial oblique & deep transverse fibres. - S. by both the superior & the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerves. The t'vo muscles bring together the two aryta:noid cartilages, and thus constrict thi glottis, especially in its posterior part. MUSCLES of the EPIGLOTTIS TAs given in Gray) —Are three in number. Thyro-Epiglottideus or Depressor Epiglottidis - Inner surface of the thyroid cartilage externally to origin of thyro-aryt^noid. Margin of epiglottis & arvtseno-epiglottidean loiu. 1 Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in cojnpressing the sacculns laryngis. Arytseno-Epiglottideus Inferior or Compressor Sacculi Laryngis - Ary. tsenoid cartilage just above false vocal cord. Margin of epiglottis. Depresses the epiglottis, and assists in compressing the sacculus laryngis. Arytseno-Epiglottideus Superior - Apex of arytaenoid cartilage. i Ai'ytaeQO-epiglottidean fold. Constricts the superior aperture of the larynx during the second act of deg'titition. - The oblique fibres of the arytainoideus are sometimes considered as belonging to the arytreno-ej^iglottidei, Avhich muscles would then decussate in the middle line behind the horizontal fibres of the arytituoideus, or aryta.'uoideus jjroper.