290 UNDER SURFACE of the CEREBRUM Presents from before backwards IN THE MEDIAN LINE: Anterior part of the Longitudinal Fissure - Bounded behind bv the anterior extremity or genu of the corpus callosum. Anterior Extremity or Genu of the Corpus Callosum - Curves downwards and backwards. Its narrowing reflected portion, beak or rostrum, is connected with the lamina cinerea, and gives off two white bundles, the peduncles (Fig. 505), which cross the anterior perforated space to the entrance of the fissure of Sylvius. Lamina Cinerea - A thin layer of grey matter (Fig. 505) stretching, above the optic commissure, with which it is connected, from the rostrum of the corpus callosum to the tuber cinereum, and continuous laterally with the grey matter of the anterior perforated space. Forms part of anterior boundary of the third ventricle. Optic Commissure or Chiasma with the Optic Tracts - Vide Optic Nerve, p. 228d. Interpeduncular Space - Lozenge-shaped, comprised between the crura cerebri and the optic tracts, and containing from before backwards : Tdber Cinereum with the Infcndibuldm & Pituitary Body - The former of which is a conical eminence of the grey matter of the floor of the 3rd ventricle connected by a hollow infundibuliform process, the iufundibulum, with the posterior lobe of the latter. Corpora Albicantia - Two small round white bodies formed by the twisting upon them- selves of the anterior crura of the fornix before they pass up to form the bundles of Vicq D'Azyr. Posterior Perforati^d Space - Formed by a layer of grey matter, which constitutes the posterior part of the floor of the 3rd ventricle and is continuous round the corpora albicantia with the base of the tuber cinereum. It is perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of the postero-raedian ganglionic branches of the posterior cerebral arteries going to the optic thalami and the walls of the 3rd ventricle. Crura Cerebri - Vide Mesocephalon (p. 330). LATERALLY: Under Surface of the Frontal Lobe - Presenting internally the gyrus rectus, on the outer side of Avhich are the olfactory sulcus containing the olfactory nerve and bulb, and, more externally, the triradiate sulcus and the three orbital convolutions. Anterior Perforated Space - Formed by a layer of grey matter corresponding to the under surface of the corpus striatum, and perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of the antero-lateral ganglionic branches of the middle cerebral arteries, which supply the caudate & lenticular nuclei, the internal capsule, and part of the optic thalamus. The space is bounded in front by the posterior and inner part of the frontal lobe and the roots of the olfactory nerve, and behind & to the inner side by the optic tract & commissure, and is continued externally into the Vallecula Sylvii, or Stem of the Fissure of Sylvius - Which Assure separates the frontal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes, and divides on the outer surface of the hemisphere into its three limbs, anterior, ascending, and posterior, Under Surface of the Temporal Lobe. Behind these parts appear when the medulla oblongata & cerebellum are removed, in I the median line: \ Middle Part of the Transverse Fissure - Comprised between the corpora quadrigemina and the Posterior Extremity of Splenium of the Corpus Callosum - Behind which is the Posterior Part of the Longitudinal Fissure - And laterally the Under Surface of the Occipital Lobe.