The thyro-arytenoideiis is said to consist of two superposed portions, the thyro-arytenoideus externus, and the thyro-arytenoideus internus. Each portion contains antero-posterior and oblique fibres. Of the antero-posterior fibres of the thyro-arytenoideus internus, some arise from the cartila-e of Luschka contained in the anterior part of the vocal cord, and are joined by other fibres arising- directly from the vocal cord, - these two sets of fibres form the ary-vocalis muscle of Ludwig. The oblique fibres of the thyro-arytenoideus internus pass upwards, outwards, and backwards between the antero-posterior fibres ; some of these end in the ventricle of the larynx, others end in the false vocal cords. Of the antero-posterior fibres of the outer portion nothing need be said beyond what has already been stated. Of the oblique fibres of the thyro-arytenoideus externus— [a] Some pass upwards and outwards into the aryteno-epiglottidean fold : these fibres, joining with the aryteno-epiglottidean fibres of the arytenoideus obliquus, form with it the thyro-ary-epiglottideus ; [b] Some wind round the sacculus laryngis, and end in the false vocal cord ; and [f] Some, more nearly vertical than the rest, form the principal thyro-epiglottideus muscle, a part of whose fibres join with the fibres of the thyro-ary-spiglottideus. Santorini described three thyro-arytenoid nuiscles - an inferior one, a middle one, and a superior one not always present-the inferior and middle thyro-arytenoid muscles of Santorini corresponding roughly to the antero-posterior and obUque fibres of the muscle as above described. The superior thyro- arytenoideus muscle of Santorini is described by Soemmering, and represented in Fig. 399 as the small thyro-arytenoideus, or thyro-arytenoideus minor (th. at: m.). It is inserted into the base of the arytenoid cartilage. There is also another small thyro-arytenoid muscle, {th. ar. in.'in the figure), which passes into the false vocal cord. The two other portions of he muscle above described form the great thyro- arytenoideus muscle of Soemmering. With just that little skill in handling knife and forceps that every man should be able to command (of what use, otherwise, is a man in our profession?) it is easy-quite easy- to make out for oneself, without any help, the muscles referred to. But there are no more than five different muscles in either larynx, or soft palate, -or pharynx either, - that every medical man-or indeed, any medical man who is not a throat specialist-should be expected to be personally familiar with. Except for Hilton's work, which was in the main read about, not individually repeated, the men of the two first decades referred to in " Specialism in Medical Teaching and Examining " - good dissectors they Avere almost to a man - roughly speaking, knew of no others. Now-a-days, on the other hand, what are we witnessing under the influence of Specialism ? In the larynx a'one, there are described, as above, some fifteen or mure muscular slips, Avhich students are supposed - not to dissect, certainly - but, in some way or other, to learn about and give an account of. What follows? That men learn "of, or about," as Mr. Teale well puts it - in plain English, "cram up," - these twenty " muscles," hwt.per contra, fail very largely to even see a single one of them. They fail very largely to know anything, in the true and practical sense of knowing, of the five good big muscles Avhich govern the production of the human voice, and also the five good big muscles, by means of which swallowing is possible without choking; one might safely add the five good big muscles by means of which one can swallow at all. Even the tongue, so often examined in our patients, are there