228c cervtcis and the coiiimunicans cervicis accessoriux. These also hare a double distribution : (1) some of their filaments join the descendens cervicis to form part of the ajisa hypoglossi. from which branches are given off to the sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, and to both bellies of the omo-hyoid, - an additional small filament sometimes joining the phrenic nerve ; while (2) other filaments rejoin those filaments from the ansa atlantis which did not leave the hypoglossal nerve to form part of the descendens hypoglossi. The thus reunited filaments from the two cervical sources above named run a little further on in the trunk of the hypo- glossal nerve, which they finally leave on the surface of the hyo-glossus muscle to supply the thyro-hyoid & genio-hyoid. A filament of the descendens hypoglossi is believed to pass down into the thorax in front of the large vessels, to join with the cardiac and phrenic nerves. It must be plain that, for our former dissectional basis of Anatomy, which gave us a personal, true, and practical knowledg-e of Anatomy, and made us surgeons, we are substituting by degrees a basis which, as far as the mass of the students, and of the profession, are concerned, is one of mere hearsay, - vague, uncertain, and useless in regard to making us practical men. Olfactory jNerves. Traced towards the uram, the inner root of the olfactory tract is seen to run along the inner boundary of the anterior perforated space to join the convolution of the corpus callosum; the outer root runs along the outer boundary of the same space, where Fig. 449b.—diagram ok the limbic lobe. (Quain.) The roots of the olfactory nerve are shown at the lower and front part of the figure. it is lost in man ; m animals with an acute sense of smell it may be traced into the uncus of the hippocampal convolution. The middle root enters the corpus striatum and joins the anterior commissure. (See note on the Olfactory bulb in the Development of the Brain, page 284a.; It is not correct morphologically to speak of the " olfactory nerve " in the older sense ; it should be "olfactory nerves," and the term should be restricted to the filaments