185 TEMPORO-MAXILLARY ARTICULATION. Is a double or bilateral condyloid articulation (Cruveilhier) comprised 1 etweer.. the condyles of the lower jaw, on the one hand, and the anterior i-oot of the zygoma & ante ior part of the glenoid cavity, on the other. The articulation is divided into two by an interarticular Gbro- cartilage, and presents two synovial membranes, of which the upper one is the largest & loosest. The interarticular fibroc artilage is thickest at the periphery, especially behind; its upper .'urface is concavo-convex from belore backwards; its under surface is concave; its circumference is connected external'y to the extei nal lateral ligament, internally & in front to the tendon of the external pterygoid - Occasionally it is jierforated in the centre, the two synovial membranes then communicating. LIGAMENTS-Are. Capsular - Thin & loose ; from Circumference of glenoid ccuvity ^ eminentia articularis to Neck of Condyle External Lateral - Broad band downwards & backwards from Outer surface 6^ tubercle of zygoma to Outer surface <Sr= posterior border of neck of condyle. Internal Lateral - Long & thia band from spine of sphenoid to Inner margin of dentalforamen. -It is related externally the to external pterygoid muscle, internal maxillary artery, and inferior dental vessels & nerve. Stylo-B- axillary - Long tMvi band of somewhat secondary importance from Apex of styloid process to Angle dr* posterior border of ramus of jaw, where it spreads out considerably and marks the separation between parotid & submaxillary glands. MOVEMENTS - Are depression, elevation, projection, retraction, lateral displacement & cir- cumduction. In slight movements of elevation & depre-sion the condyles simply rotate on a transverse axis upon the interarticular fibro cartilages. In mort extensive movements not only do the condyles rotate as above, but they also pass forwards with the interarticular fibrocartilages upon the eminentise articu- ' lares, the displacement being due *o the laxity of the superior synovial mem- brane & to the action of the external lateral ligament. Tnis displacement also takes place on the two sides alternately in the lateral or grinding move- ment of the jaw, and on both sides simultaneously in the piojectiun of the jaw forwards.