THE THORACIC AORTA. Commences at left side of lower border of 5th* dorsial vertebra. Descends thronch posterior mediastinum, curving slightly forwards and inclining slightly to the right, atul ends at aortic opening of diaphragm in front of 12th dorsal vertebra. - RELATIONS : In Front - Pulmonary vessels, pericardium, oesophagus. Behind-Vertebraa, vena azygos minor. To THE Right - CEsophagus (above), vena azygos major, thoracic duct. To THE Left - Left lung & pleura, oesophagus (below). BRANCHES: Pericajrdiac - Small, irregular; forwards to pericardium. Broncllial - The nutrient vessels of the lunsfs. Ou left side, irenerallv two arisinsr from thoracic aorta one above the other; on right sid?^, but one usually arisinij either from first aortic intercostal, or from front ot aorta in common with artery of left side. Along back of corresponding bronchus, dividing & subdividing upon bronchial tubes, and supplying bronchial glands & cellalar tissue of lung; <?ive a lew twigs to oesophagu"!, CEsophageal - Usually four or five from front of aorta. Descend obliquely upon oesopha- gus anastomosing with each other, and with the oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid, inferior phrenic & gastric. Posterior Mediastinal - Small irregular branches to glands and cellular tissue of mediastinum. Aortic Intercostals - From back of aorta. Usually ten in number, sometimes only nine, the second intercostal space being sometimes supplied, as well as the first, by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian. To corres- ponding intercostal space, passing on Left Sidb - Beneath smaller azygos & left superior intercostal reins, and left cord of sympathetic; B.TGHT Side - Round bodies of vertebrae beneath oesophagus, thoracic duct, greater azygos, ife right, cord of sympathetic, - and divide into anterior & posterior branches. Anterior Branch, OR Intercostal Proper - Upon external intercostal muscle and beneath pleura & a thin layer of fascia, t3 lower border of rib above, and divides between the two intercostal muscles into branches; Superior - The larger; along groove on inner surface of rib above; Inferior - The smaller; along upper border of rib below, - which branches supply intercostal muscles, and anastomose with thoracic branches of axillary & anterior intercostal branches of internal mammary. The three last intercostals are prolonged between abdominal muscles, and anastomose with epigastric, inferior phrenic & lumbar; the first one anastomoses with superior intercostal. - In the intercostal spaces the vein usually lies above tiie trunk of the artery & its superior branch, and the nerve below. Posterior or Dorsal Branch - Backwards on inner side of superior or long costo- transverse ligament with posterior branch of corresponding spinal nerve, and divides into branches: Spinal - Through intervertebral foramen to cord & its membranes and pos- terior aspect ot bodies ol vertebrae. Muscular - Hi^videB mto internal off^sct to mulufiJus spmae & integument near spine, and external offset^ which passes between sacro-lumbalis ii lonjfissimus dorsi to superficial muscles & integumen*^ ■' See foot-note to page 234.