XV The presentation of the new matter, apart from that which is not new, will have an advantage. It will make it the more evident what the real nature of the new matter is. It will he felt that a large part of this differs fundamentally ijom plain human anatomy ; so much so that the two things will have, it is believed, to part company sooner or later, as has been the case, of late years, with histology and anatomy proper. Different, not only in degree, but in nature or kind, is the attitude towards the " subject" of the student of to-day, as compared with that of the men of but a few years ago. But recently, the object was to dissect, and see, ecerijthinij. Now we go by the •' subject " just so far as the " subject " is, so to speak, the most convenient illustration of itself. The limbs are of easy dissection. So we look at biceps, brachial and femoral arteries ; and at the carotids, and so forth. But go fiu'ther afield. Take the hernia^ take the perinaium, take the deeper parts of the head & neck ; take especially the visceral cavities and their contents. Here the dissection becomes more difficult: for it to be satisfactory, work both careful and intelligent is required. Here the "parts" are no longer the njost convenient illustration of themselves. So we take to plate and model.* And stomach, liver, pancreas, spleen, kidney, are they not all wrong " in the dissected " subject ? " t Here we learn everything (save the mark !) from the reconstructed cast. Fatal, in effect, to sound practical work is the influence of the '-'infinitely little" (Sir Dyce Duckworth), now so largely introduced into our text-books. Embryology and Morphology are clearly "out of it " in regard to dissectional anatomy. Not so, unfortunately, the " infinitely little.'' The " trivial and exasperating details " (l-'atteson)j are always based on the implied assertion. Dissect, and you will see that it is so. The assertion is dissectionally incorrect in most cases, - incorrect in " knife and forceps anatomy " (Mitchell Banks). The Author will stake on this his authority as a human dissectional anatomist of over thirty years' standing. * " Nuinherd who dU^ect dwiiuUing to a iiiinuituui; " Dmectionn of the deeper parts seldom done now" (Leading- articles in the Lancet for Jan. H^th, ls!)4, and Feb. 6th, 1897). "The new school dissects but little. It explains, and tries to get men to 'understand'—that is, to imagine. It is true that things are not so in principle. In 'principle the new school insists strongly on practical work of all kind. 'One part dissected with care/ writes Professor Macalister, 'is worth a dozen hurried over.' Indeed, the zeal and personal example of the leaders are admirable. But the field of work is so enormously extended by the superadded ' transcendentalism,' that theory and practice cannot go hand in hand. The highest aspirations notwithstanding, the fact is as abov e stated. - Letter to Lancet for May 27th, 1897. t See the New or " Reconstructed " Abdomen, pp. 13-2a-bb. The descriptions in Gray, Ellis, Heath, and Holden - so far as they have not been altered of late years - express the experience of thousands of assiduous dissectors during the most earnest dissecting period we have traversed, the period that produced a Hirschfeld and a Sappey. Are these to be set aside for small innovations coming from a source essentially different from that of simple unbiassed observation ? X " There nuist be something radically wrong in the teaching of anatomy which makes the large majority of students loathe and shirk the tedium of dissecting. Anatomy is not taught as the handmaid of Surgery, but as aseparate science bristling with technicalities and overloaded with trivial and exasperating details. Hence it is unwillingly learnt, and readily forgotten. And the vast majority of facts, which are all-important in surgery, are soon engulfed in the wreckage which follows the emancipation of an over^ burdened memory."—(R. C. Patteson, Surgeon to Meath Hospital.)