348kk o Medulla: Upper Part of Olivary Body.-We are now above the point of special interest. It will be observed, to begin with, that the section is no longer tripartite, though otherwise resembling the foregoing in general outline. It is true that the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve is still seen in the inner part of the grey matter, but its Fig. 591.—section through upper part op olivary body. (Schwalbe.) J32/., pyramid ; 0., olivary nucleus ; F.«., ascending root th fifth nerve ; VIII., inferior (posterior) root of the auditory nerve, farmed of two parts, a. and b., which enclose the restiform body, c.r. ; n.VIIl.p., principal nucleus of the auditory nerve ; n.VIII.ac, accessory nucleus ; g., ganglion cells in the root; f.t., funiculus teres ; n.XII., nucleus of the hypoglossal; r., raphe. roots no longer traverse the section. Nor, a fortiorz, do those of the pneumogastric nerve, whose nucleus even has disappeared, - giving place to the principal nucleus of the nervus acusticus. The principal auditory nucleus, - the prolongation of the external group of cells in the grey matter of the previous section, and of the anterior group in the section before that, - is a large and important one, widely spread out over the broadest part of the floor of the ventricle, and deeply sunk into the grey matter. Running over it, - over the tuberculum acusticum of the surface description, - are seen the transverse bundles of the strise acusticse, joining to all appearances the large outer root They are added to by deep fibres which come to the surface partly in the groove between the pyramids and olives, partly after passing through the olives, as before mentioned. Traced back into the anterior median fissure, they are seen to enter the raphe, and to cross over in it; after which it is supposed that they may become longitudinal, but their further course is not certainly known. The in7ier or deep arched fibres emerge from the raph^, and traverse the thickness of the bulb, tending towards the olives, the Restiform body, and the nuclei of the cuneate and slender funiculi. Those which pass through and in front of the olives are in continuity with the superficial arched fibres. Traced back- wards into the raphe the deep arched fibres cross obliquely to the other side of the medulla, where some become longitudinal, joining the fibres of the fillet."--^CQuain's