252 STBUOTURE of the HEART—1st Tablet, Presents for examination the fibrous rings of the arterial & auriculo-ventricular openings, and the muscular fibres. FIBROUS RINGS — The aortic & the two auriculo-ventricular rings lie close together, - roughly- speaking, ^ ehind the left half of the sternum, on a level with the 4th costal cartilages (see more precise statements in the several Tablets), and are bound together by a fibro- cartilaginous mass which becomes ossified in some of the larger animals. - The aortic ring lies in front of the left auriculo-ventricular; the right auriculo-ventricular ring lies between, & to the right of, the two others. - The fibrous ring of the pulmonary- artery is situated at the apex of the infundibulum opposite the upper border of the 3rd costal cartilage of the left side close to the sternum. These rings give attachment to the mitral tricuspid & semilunar valves, to the muscular fibres of the auricles, and to some of the most superficial fibres of the ven- tricles. The margin of the arterial rings which is turned towards the auricles, is scalloped into three semilunar notches filled up by corresponding projections of the middle coat of the artery, the attachment of the arteries to the rings being strength- ened externally by the pericardium and internally by the endocardium. MUSCULAR FIBRES — Are striated, but are about ^ smallet- than those of striated mus- cles generally, and their suiation is not so distinct. Tiiey divide and anastomoso with each other, and they often contain fat cells. Tneir perimysium is but scanty. Fibres of the Auricles - A.^"© mostly transverse, superficial, & common to both auricles; some however lie deeper, and are proper to each auricle. SuPEKficiAL, Tkansverse, OR CoMMON FiBRES - Surrouud mainly the base of tho sinuses, and are most marked anteriorly. Some dip into the inter. auricular septum. Dkjki' or Proper Fibres - May be divided into: Looped Fibres - Arch over each auricle from before backwards, and are at- tached to the auriculo-ventricular rings both in front & behind. Annular Fibres - Encircle the appendices auriculae, and the venae cavae, pul. monary & coronary veins, exDendiug for some distauc© upon the veins. FiblrdS of tlxO VentricleB - Vide next Tablet.