348j FRONTAL LOBE—A Note to page 282. The precentral sulcus is often divided into two portions, the superior {^)axi^ inferior (5j precentral sulci, the latter occasionally presenting a short horizontal oifshoot, and then being more or less F- or T-shaped. The superior and middle frontal convolutions are not unfrequently divided, each into two lateral halves, the frontal lobe then presenting Jive superposed tiers (Cunningham), instead of three. Thus the inner half of the superior frontal convolution may be separated from the outer half by a series of short and irregular furrows (sulcus paramedialis) running parallel to the longitudinal fissure, - these furrows being of interest through their being found only in the higher types of brains. The middle frontal convolution, which is broader than the two others, may be similarly subdivided anteriorly by the middle frontal sulcus of Ebersteller. The inferior frontal convolution is of particular interest through its containing the speech-centre of Broca. It is subdivided, from behind forwards, into pars basilaris (1), pars triangularis (2), and pars orbitalis (3), by the ascending and anterior limbs of the fissure of Sylvius. The pars basilaris lies behind the ascending limb of the fissure (S'*) ; the pars triangularis lies between this limb and the anterior limb (S^); the pc(7-s orbitalis lies below the anterior limb, and reaches to the superciliary margin of the hemisphere. The left inferior frontal convolution is usually larger than the right one, in harmony with the special location of the speech-centre on that side. The increased development chiefly affects the pars triangularis, which, when well developed, may push its way between, and entirely separate, the anterior and ascending limbs of the fissure of Sylvius. PARIETAL LOBE.—A Note to page 282. The parietal lobe presents a number of important and interesting fissures well worthy of careful study. These are : 1. -Horizontal (8), and superior (9) and inferior (10) post-central fissures, which are more or less joined together to form the intraparietal fissure of Turner. 2. - The upturned ends of the fissure of Sylvius (S^), of the parallel or superior temporal fissure (11), and of the middle temporal fissure (12); these supply the basis of Prof. Cunningham's description of the inferior parietal convolution, given below. To these may be added 3. - The ramus occipitalis (13), which belongs also to the occipital lobe. The superior post-central fissure (9) lies behind the upper half of the fissure of Rolando; the inferior post-central fissure (10) lies behind the lower half of the same ; these tAvo fissures are frequently confluent. The ramus horizontalis (8) extends backwards from the upper end of the inferior post-central fissure, and separates the superior and inferior parietal convolutions. The upturned ends of the fissure of Sylvius, of the parallel or superior temporal fissure (11), and of the inferior temporal fissure (12), are of importance as marking the three sub- divisions of the inferior parietal convolution as given by Prof. Cunningham. These sub- divisions are: a. - Supra-marginal convolution, which arches over the upturned end of the fissure of Sylvius, and is continuous below &. behind with the superior temporal convolution; l>. - Angular convolution^ which arches over the upturned end of the parallel or first temporal fissure, and is continuous below and behind with the middle temporal convolution ; c. - Post-parietal convolution, which arches over the upturned end of the second temporal fissure, and is continuous below & behind with the inferior temporal convolution.