3481 TEMPORAL LOBE.—A Note to page 286. The superior temporal fissure, or parallel Jissure (11), is always well marked. As above stated, its posterior extremity turns upwards into the parietal lobe, and is arched over by the angular convolution, which is built up upon it. The inferior temporal fissure (12) is often broken up into several pieces. Its posterior extremity likewise turns upwards into the parietal lobe, and is arched over by the post-parietal convolution. OCCIPITAL LOBE—A Note to page 286. The ramus occipitalis of Turner's intra-parietal fissure (13) extends posteriorly, as already stated, into the occipital lobe ; in its backward course it embraces the lower extremity of the external parieto-occipital fissure (P.O.), bounding what is sometimes called the arcus parieto-occipitalis. In the occipital lobe proper it bifurcates to foi'm the transverse occipital fissure (14). The boundary between the occipital, and the parietal & temporal lobes is clearly marked off, in the upper part only, by the short external parieto-occipital fissure. Lower down it may be demarcated for a short distance by the upturned end of the inferior temporal fissure. Short of this, an arbitrary line of demarcation (dotted in the figure) is often drawn between the external parieto-occipital fissure and the pre-occipital notch (15) on the inferior lateral border of the hemisphere. The above-mentioned transverse ocn'pital Jissure is sometimes taken as marking the boundary, this fissure then being called the anterior occipital fissure. The description of the outer surface of the occipital lobe given in the Tablet, though agreeing with Prof. Macalister's description, is not now taken as representing the usual condition of that lobe. The sulci on the occipital lobe " are not constant enough in position and direction to serve for marking out its surface into distinct gyri. If a division must be made, it should be into anterior & posterior gyri situated, revspectively, behind a small lateral occipital fissure (see Fig. 571). and between this fissure and the anterior occipital fissure aboA'e referred to."—(Quain.) CENTRAL LOBE, or ISLAND OP REIL.- A Note to page 286. The central lobe is somewhat triangular, with apex below and in front, i.e., at the vallecula Sylvii. It is divided into a precentral, or frontal portion, and a post-central, or limbic portion, by a fissure somewhat deeper and of earlier formation than the others, the sulcus centralis insula;. This lobe is interesting morphologically. It is developed very early in connection with the corpus striatum, to Avhich it remains adherent; it is thus precluded from keeping pace with the general expansion of the hemisphere, and soon becomes covered in by the surrounding convolutions,—the four opercula.* It is covered in above and in front by the frontal and parietal lobes, which form three of the four opercula, namely: Orbital - formed by the pars orbital!s of the inferior frontal convolution ; Frontal - formed by the pars basilaris of the same ; Fronto-parietal - iovmed by the ascending frontal & ascending parietal convolutions ; and covered in below by the temporal lobe, which forms the temporal operculum. The central lobe is surrounded bj a continuous sulcus, the sulcus limitans, or sinus circularis Heilei, which is divisible into anterior, exfernal, and prste-ior portions. * For this reason it is not inappropriately termed by German writers (with the basal ganglia and the crura cerebri) the stevti of the hemisphere, the remainder of the cerebrum being collectively termed the mantle.