306 TEANSVERSE FISSURE of the BRAIN & INTRA- CEREBRAL PORTION of the PIA MATER. TRANSVERSE FISSURE OF THE BRAIN* Is of a horse-shoe shape, and about four inches wide. Its central part is horizontal and comprised between the tubercula quadrigemina & the posterior extremity or splenium of the corpus callosum. Its lateral portions curve downwards and forwards in the descending cornii of the lateral ventricle, and are comprised between the optic thalami and the hippocampi niajores & corpora fimbriata. {See Figs, 513, 514:.) This fissure transmits the pia mater into the interior of the brain. INTRA-CEREBRAL PORTION OF THE PIA MATER Forms on the one hand the velum interpositum & the choroid plexuses of the lateral & the ord ventricles, and, on the other, the tela choroidea & the choroid plexuses of the 4th ventricle. Velum Interpositum - Is a double fold of pia mater, triangular in shape, which is reflected into the interior of the brain through the transverse fissure. It presents: Central Portion - Invests the pineal gland, and covers the under surface of the fornix. From the under surface of this central portion two small vascular fringes, the choroid plexuses of the 3rd ventricle, hang down into the latter cavity. Lateral Margins- Spread out on either side beneath the corresponding margin of the fornix & its continuation, the corpus fimbriatum, into the body & de- scending cornu of the corresponding lateral ventricle, resting, as do the margins of the fornix, upon the optic thnlami. These lateral margins are thick, convoluted & fringe-like ; they constitute the choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles further described below. Postkrior Margin or Base - Turned backwards towards the transverse fissure. It is continuous with the general pia mater: it receives the anterior & posterior choroid arteries and emits the venje Galeni. Anterior Bifid Extremity - Continuous through the foramina of Monro with the anterior pointed extremities of the lateral margins above described or choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles. Choroid Plexuses of the Lateral Ventricles - Ave nothing more than the thick, convoluted & fringc-like margins of the velum interpositum. When described separately, that is to say irrespectively of the velum interpositum of which they arc a portion, they may be said to penetrate into the descending cornua of the lateral ventricle through the lateral portions of the transverse fissure (.see Figs. 513, 514). Hence they ascend into the body of the lateral ventricle along the side of ihe corpus fimbriatum, winding round the posterior extremity of the optic thalamus. Then, continuing along the side of the fornix, they taper to a point, and, passing through the corresponding foramen of Monro, they join with each other and with the anterior bifurcated extremity of the central & thinner portion of the velum interpositum. Choroid Plexuses of the 3rd Ventricle - Are two small vascular fringes which hang down from the under surface of the central portion of the velum interpositum into the cavity of the 3rd ventricle ; they diverge slightly behind. Tela Choroidea - Vide Fourth Ventricle, page 326. Choroid Plexuses of the 4th Ventricle - Are two similar fringes which project into the 4th ventricle from the layer of pia mater (tela choroidea) which closes that ventricle inferiorly ; they pass upwards and then outwards from near the apex of the calamus scriptorius over the outer margin of the restiform body, and into the lateral recess of the fourth ventricle. See note in black type on page 308.