256q The upper part of the inferior vena cava is formed by a communicating branch which joins the latter to the vitelline vein A coramnnicating branch which passes from the left lower cardinal to the right lower cardinal forms the vena azygos minor. The upper part of the left lower cardinal then becomes the left upper azygos. The left duct of Cuvier disappears in the main, its central portion remaining, however, as the coronary sinus (Fig. 4). Occasionally the left duct of Cuvier and the lower part of the left upper cardinal persist, fonnihg a left superior vena cava, - in which case the left innominate vein is quite small or vestigial. This arrangement, and its honiological derivation from the normal arrangement, are well illustrated in the two preceding woodcuts. There may persist a mere vestige only of the left superior vena cava, forming the vestigial vein of Marshall. Some morphological interest attaches to both internal iliac veins and to the right common iliac. These are remains of the terminal part of the two inferior cardinals. The left common iliac vein is merely a transverse anastomosis between the lower part of the two inferior cardinals, similar, in the lower part of the body, to the left innominate vein, in the upper part. Just as there were originally two superior venae cavse, so there were originally two inferior venae cavae, formed, in their lower part, out of the middle part pf the two inferior cardinals. As does the left superior vena cava, so does the left inferior vena cava disappear, through the formation of a transverse anastomosis, - though it also leaves sometimes a vestige behind it. This arrangement gives the key to various rare abnormalities, and explains why the spermatic, suprarenal, and inferior phrenic veins open into the inferior vena cava directly, on the right side, and in- directly only, on the left side. The external iliac veins, with the veins of the lower limb proper, are veins of new formation. Vitelline and Umbilical Veins, and First Portal Circulation. The left or persistent vitelline or omphalo-mesenteric vein opens at first into the common auricle between the ducts of Cuvier, and then, after the separation of the two auricles, into the right auricle between the same ducts, which latter have now become transformed, the right one into the termination of the superior vena cava^ and the left one into the coronary sinust Fig. 28.—diagram OB' the first PORTAIi CIRCUIiATION. I. vit. v., left or persistent vitelline or omphalo-mesenteric vein. A little below the heart, it receives the umbilical vein (unimportant at this stage), and becomes surrounded by the liver, in the interior of which it breaks up into a capillary plexus (vense hepatic£e adheventes & reheventes) - the branches of which plexus again unite into venous trunks, the hepatic veins, which latter open into what