352 THE CLASSIFICATION OF JOINTS. The joints may be divided into: ^ , SYNARTHROSEiS — The tones are immoveabTy interlocked, and are in almost imme. diate contact, being separated only by a thin layer of periosteum termed the sutnra,! ligament, and, at the base of the skull, by a thin layer of cartilage. - The varieties are the; Sutura Vera - The bones present a series of processes & indentations, which fit with each other. The subvarietios are the: S. Dentata - The interlocking processes are large & ramified. - Ex.: Sagittal &t> lamboid sutures. S. Serrata - The interlocking processes are smaller & more regular. - Ex.: Tem- porary suture in >?iiddle line of frontal hone. S. Ltmbosa - The articular surfaces are more or less bevelled, and one overlaps the other. - Ex.: Fronto-parietal suture. Sutura Notha or False Suture - A mere apposition of rough surfaces. - The subvarieties are the: S. Squamosa - Considerable overlapping of extensively bevelled surfaces. - Ex.: Temporo-parietal suture. S. Harmonica - Apposition in the mesial line of two symmetrical & vertically cut surfaces. - Ex.: Artiadation between the two halves of the upper jaw. Sdlindylesis - A thin plate of bone is received into a cleft formed by the separation of the two plates of another bone. - Ex.: Articulation of the rostrum of the sphenoid with the vomer, GompllOSis - The implantation of the teeth into the alveolar processes. AIVIPIIIAIiTHKiOSfjS — The bones are bound, together almost immoveably by means of ■ thick plates of fibro-cartilage extremely adherent to each bone, and by strong external ligaments. In some cases the articular surfaces are partly covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and are partly lined with synovial membrane. The one class of amphiarthroses resemble the synarthroses, the other class resemble the diarthroses. ' DIARTHROSES — The bones are bound together by means of external ligaments lined with synovial membrane, and the articular surfaces are covered with cartilage. Plates or rings of fibro-cartilage are sometimes included within the articular \ cavity, which cavity they occasionally divide into two distinct parts. - The ; arthrodise having recently been subdivided by Cruveilhier into arthrodise proper, condyloid articulations, & articulations by reciprocal reception, the varieties of the diarthroses may now be enumerated as follows (in the order of decreasing variety & decreasing extent of the movements they admit) - : ' Enarthroses - Globular head received into a cup-shaped cavity. Well defined capsu- lar ligament. The movements are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, & rotation. - Ex : Hip-joint. \ Articulations by Reciprocal Reception - Articular surfaces inversely convex in one direction & concave in the other. Capsular ligament less perfect & complete than in the enarthroses. The movements are flexion, extension, adduction, ab- duction, & circumduction ; there is no of axial rotation. - Ex: Articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thujub ivith the trapezium, j Condyloid Articulations - Ovoid articular head, or condyle, received into ai^ elliptical cavity. Strong anterior, posterior & lateral ligaments. Flexion & ex-: tension very free; adduction, abduction & circumduction, rather less so; nqf axial rotation . Ex : Wrist joint. Ginglymi-Trochlear surface on the one hand, cavity of reception to correspond, on the other. Strong lateral ligaments; anterior & posterior ligaments but slightly marked. Flexion & extension only. Ex : Elbaiv joint,- Diarthroses Rotatorii - Pivot-like process turning in an osteo-fibrous ring, or I osteo-fibrous ring rotating upon an axial process. Rotatory movements only. Ex : Superior 6^ inferior radio-ulnar articulations. Arthrodise Proper - Articular surfaces flat or nearly so. Thin & loose capsules. Only gliding movements, which movements are never very extensive. Ex, Acromio-clavicular artictdatiork \