252c CIRCULATION IN THE FULLY DEVELOPED FOETUS. The blood which has been oxygenated in the placenta returns to the foetus by the Umbilical Vein. This runs in the umbilical cord, through the umbilicus, and in the folds of the suspensory or falciform ligament to the under surface of the liver, - where it passes backwards in the hssure for the umbilical vein as far as the transverse fissure. Here the umbilical vein gives off lateral branches and bifurcates, and the blood stream divides into three courses. 1st Course.—Before the umbilical vein bifurcates, it gives off several branches to the quadrate, Spigelian, & left lobes ; after distribution to the liver, this blood is collected by the hepatic veins and poured into the inferior vena cava. 2nd Course.—One branch of bifurcation of the umbilical vein passes with the portal vein to the right lobe proper, whence the blood is again collected by the hepatic veins and poured into the inferior vena cava. oRD Course.—The other branch of the bifurcation passes on as the ductus venosus, which, acting as a bridge, pours the remaining blood direct into the inferior vena cava. It may here be noted (1) that the umbilical vein & ductus venosus carry arterial blood, and (2) that, although in the advanced stages of foBtal life the ductus venosus carries most of the arterial blood directly into the inferior vena cava, in the early stages, on the contrary, most of the arterial blood passes through the liver. This accounts for the full development of that organ in the fcetus. The Inferior Vena Cava above the liver thus carries the whole of the placental blood, - w4th the return blood from the other viscera and lower limbs, - to the Right Auricle. Here two blood streams meet and slightly intermix, - the ascending arterial stream now being dealt with, and the descending venous stream, which latter must be parenthetically alluded to. The descending venous stream, derived, as explained later on, from the head, neck, & upper limbs, and entering the right auricle by the superior vena cava, is, by the obliquity of that vessel, directed forwards in front of the ascending arterial stream. It is thus that it reaches the right ventricle. The ascending arterial stream, entering the right auricle by the inferior vena cava, is turned backwards by the Eustachian valve, very large in the fcetus, and thus directed behind the former stream and through the foramen ovale to the Left Auricle, whence it passes to the Left Ventricle, and so to the Aorta. From the aorta, the ascending arterial stream passes almost entirely to the Head, Neck, & Upper Limbs. This is through a second meeting of opposite, or intersecting, currents, which occurs in