348p parieto-occipital fissure above, and by the collateral fissure (20) below. It lies partly on the mesial surface, and partly on the tentorial surface of the occipital lobe. The hippocampa/gp-us, a,s a. vfhole, is separated in front from the external occipito-temporal convolution by the faintly marked and variable incisura temporalis (21). The internalparieio-occipital fissure, P.O., marks distinctly the boundary between the occipital and temporal lobes on thp mesial surface of the hemisphere. The boundary, on the tentorial surface, betAveen the occipital 1« be, on the one hand, and the tempora and limnic lobes on the other, is, on the contrary, not marked off in any way FlO. 574.—DIAGRAM OF THE LIMBIC liOBE. (Quaill.) LOBES BUILT UP ON (L) PHYSIOLOGICAL AND (II.) MORPHOLOGICAL GROUNDS. I. OPERCULAR LOBE (MACALISTER). Surrounds the fissure of Rolando, or central fissure, and contains the motor are«. It comprises the precentrnl or ascending frontal convolution, the post-central or ascending- parietal convolution, the paracentral convolution joining the two foregoing above, and the infracentral convolution joining the same below.* The motor areas correlated with the facial movements lie in the anterior part of the infracentral convolution ; those correlated with the movements of the upper limb lie in the middle portions of the pre- and post-central convolutions : those correlated with the movements of the lower limb lie in the upper part of the pre- and post-central convolutions, and in the contiguous parts of the paracentral convolution. * Professor Macalister does not recognise the frequent communications between the fissure of Rolando and either or both the longitudinal fissure and the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, said to be frequent by Professor Cunningham and other scientists. In consequence of the recognition of the opercular lobe, Professor Macalistei's frontal and parietal lobes are shorn of their ascending frontal and ascending parietal convolutions respectively.