348u Transverse Fissure.—A Note to p. 306. In reality,-i.e., li/IORPHOLOGICALLY, - there is no such thing as the transverse fissure, nor does the pia mater in any way penetrate into the interior of the brain :— The interval between the cerebrum and cerebellum, incisura pallii (Macalister), results from the extension backwards of the prosencephalon over the thalamencephalon or inter-brain, and is by no means a fissure in the usual sense of the term. It is a mere depression, which indents the encephalon between the hemispheres and the thalamic region, and apparently transmits a great pouch of pia mater, the marsupium cerebri (velum interpositum and choroid plexuses), into the interior of the brain through what is " sovietimes caUed" the transverse fissure. But, much as it appears to do so, the marsupium cerebri does not penetrate into the brain, - the morphological hrain; it simply pushes before it the original roof of the cerebral vesicle, the epitheliaJ layer. It is covered over, and excluded from the ventricular spaces, by the epithelium, the true wall, of the latter. The 4th ventricle also has a continuous roofepifhelidl, - and is not an open cavity; and the pia mater in no way penetrates into it. The primitive neural tube (epithelial tube), explains the enibryologist (see page 348qq cf seq.), thickens almost everywhere, but not everywhere, by the formation, outside the epithehal layer, of the white and grey nervous substances characteristic of the final condition. The mass of the brain and cord is formed by such thickenings. But where no such thickening occurs, as in the roof of the 3rd ventricle, and in the roof of the 4th ventricle, there are still present the primitive and essential epithelial elements. These form the true roof. Avulsion of the pia mater removes this roof, and thtis opens up the ventricular cavities. The ventricular cavities are not otherwise open. Is the above anything more than a fair and straightforward presentation of the new s.-iientific views, rn the strength of which the description of the nerve-centres has been all but revolutionised ot late years? If so, what do the alterations amount to, which have been made with such clamour and display ? They amount, as far as facts go, to very little indeed. But they amount, as regards methods, to the abandon- ment of the practical educational system upon which, up till lateiy, the early training of every physician and every surgeon has been based. And there is here, not only the introduction cf methods altogether at variance with former methods, but the introduction of these in a latent manner, new meanings being everywhere given, without warning, to well-recognised terms, to which precise and definite significance previously attached. If we are henceforth to proceed on the new lines, it can be but well that we should at least do so with our eyes open. The phrase goes, correct in the main, and forcible, " A cabman's knowledge of London," as expressive of the kind of Anatomy required by medical men. It is submitted, in this connection, that we are now studying, not " London," but " the map of London." The study of the map of London may enable the amateur to answer questions of general bearing better, perhaps, than his illiterate compeer who fingers the reins. Chalk in hand, and established in front of a blackboard, the amateur may describe and delineate the surroundings of Tower Bridge, or the communications opened up of late through Theobald's Road, - the continuance of the metaphor will be pardoned, - more in detail, and in better language, than the real man of the whip. But try him at his supposed calling; ask him to drive you sharp by the Bank to Cannon Street to catch a train, or down the Minories to the docks to say farewell to a friend steaming off, and the danger will be great cf some collision, or of someone being run over. So with the kind of tenants of the box - surgeons, if the term can apply-which cannot but be the outcome of present educational methods. With finger in incision through linea alba, find the altered ovary, and deaj