258 MUSCLES of the BACK. FIRST LAYER. Trapezius - ExternaT ocoipital protn^iPraTife & imifir tTiirrl of snppinor cnrvod line occipital hone; Hsramentum nnchge & spinous processes of the last cervical & of a! the dorsal vertehrse ; supraspinous licrament. Posterior horder of outer third of clavicle, inner border ot acromion whole leno-th of upper lip of posterior border of spine of scapila, tubercle at outer part of smooth surface at its inner extremity. - S. by spin accessory nerve & deep branches of cervical plexus. Latissimus Dorsi - Spinous processes of the 6 or 7 lower dorsal vertebrae; by th( posterior layer of lumbar aponeurosis, from the lumbar & sacral spines an^ the back part of outer lip of crest of ilium ; from outer lip of crest of ilium fnfl an inch or more in front of lumbar aponeurosis; from the last three or four ribl interdigfitatino-with external oblique; sometimes by a few fibres from inferiol angle of scapula. Bottom of bicipital groove of humerus a little hi^^her up than teres majof by a broad flat tendon twisted upon itself. - S. by long subscapular nerve. SECOND LAYER. I Levator Anguli Scapulse - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the 3, 4, or 5 upper cervical vertebrae between splenius & scalenus medius. Posterior border of scapula between spine & superior angle. - S. by one of the deep branches of the cervical plexus and by one of the supra-clavicular' branches of the brachial plexus. RllOnaboideus Minor - Ligamentum nuchae and spinous processes of 7th cervical & lat dorsal vertebrae. Posterior border of scapula opposite triangular smooth surface at root of spine. - S. by one of the deep branches of cervical plexus and by one of the supra* clavicular branches of the brachial plexus. Klimoboideus Major - Spinous processes of the 4 or 5 upper dorsal vertebras and supra- spinous ligament. Base of scapula between spine and inferior angle (Qiiain, Ellis), or rather into a tendinous arch attached to the triangular smooth surface at root of spine & to the inferior angle and connected to posterior border of scapula by a thin membrane (Gray). - S. by one of the deep branches of the cervical plexus and by otie of the supra-clavicular brandies of the brachial plexus.