348h Posteriorly the cisterua basilaris is joined to the cisterna pontis, which lies in froat of the medulla and pons, and which is the continuation upwards of the anterior subarach- noid space of the cord. The cisterna pontis is joined to the cisterna magna.* The subarachnoidean space of the cord is divided into three more or less distinct compartments bj the ligamenta denticulata and the mesial septum posticum. The latter is tolerably complete opposite the lower part of the cord, where the subarachnoid space is most expanded, but superiorly it consists of little more than a few separately superposed strands. The ligamenta denticulata present a continuous inner attachment to the pia mater. Their outer margin offers some twenty-two denticulations, which are attached to the dura mater about midway betAveen the points of exit of the several pairs of cranial nerves. The two posterior compartments of the subarachnoid space of the cord are continued upwards into the cisterna magna; and the anterior compartment into the cisterna pontis and the cisterna basilaris. The subarachnoid space communicates with the fourth ventricle - and through this with the ventricular cavities of the brain - through the foramen of Magendie, and the foramina of Key and Retzius. A communication is said to exist between the cisterna basilaris and the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Paccliionian Bodies. These are small granular bodies often seen on either side of the superior longi- tudinal sinus, especially over in the hinder part of the parietal region, most numerous as age advances, and w^hich frequently give rise, by absorption to small pits on the inner table of the skull, in which they then lodge. They are hypertrophied villi of the arachnoid. Their ]»enetration of the dura mater, and, as above mentioned, of the inner table of the skull, is interesting. They do not actually pierce the <lura mater ; they always carry before them an attenuated covering derived from that membrane. It is thus that they often appear to project into the superior longitudinal sinus, while really excluded from the same. They may similarly project, or appear to project, into the paramesial sinuses. Each villus is made up of subarachnoidean trabecular tissue, and is covered by a continuation of the arach- noid. Outside this is a thin sheath derived from the dura mater, and in the interval between the two is a continuation of the subdural space. * Is it not follovvin;? the lymph-space transcendentalism of Key and Retzius too far to refer, as some authors do, not only to some half-dozen more "cisternse subarachnoidales " (cisternse pontis media, pontis lateralis, interpeduncularis, chiasmatis, laminae cinere?e, foss» Sylvii, &c.), but to further refer to the " flumina," " rivi," " rivuli," which these are taken to receive from the supposed clefts following the greater and the secondary & tertiary cerebral fissures? This is certainly not the kind of anatomy wanted by medical men. pa, -DIAGRAMMATIC SECTION THROUGH A PACCHIONIAN BODY, OR ARACHNOID VILLUS (Schwalbe.) arachnoid villus; d, d', ds, deep and superficial layers of dura mater, both reduced to a thin lamina over the villus ; sd, sd', sub- dural space, and its prolongation round the villus ; a, sa, arachnoid and subarac.inoid tissue, a prolongation of the latter forming: the villus ; p, CO, pia mater and convolution.