1521 dissectional anatomist, - it has, nevertheless, been thought desirable to preface the pages on the Head and Neck by an examination of the present position of the subject. The subject is really an easy one, if properly taken. In connection with the deep origin of each one of the cranial nerves in succession, will the reader first look for the nucleus, or nuclei, in Fig. 358a. The reader should keep this figure constantly in view ; Fig. 358b should be set aside till later on. Fig. 358a shows the several nuclei as looked at from behind, the medulla and pons being taken as transparent. The motor nuclei are mapped out on the right side of the figure, the sensory on the left, and all are marked with Roman numerals correspond- ing to the order of succession of the nerves in Sommering's classification. Where a nerve has both sensory and motor muclei, as in the case of the fifth (V.), glosso-pharyngeal (IX.), and pneumogastric nerves (X.), one nucleus will be found on one side of the figure, and the other on the other side. Will the reader next examine the sectional figures referred to in the following paragraphs, and trace out the several statements on the coronal and sagittal sections given. All the statements submitted will then, it is believed, be easily understood. Finally, will the reader return to Fig, 358b, and examine the same in the light of the concluding remarks on page 152s. Third Nerve {See Figs. 358a, c, d).—Arises mainly from the elongated oculomotor nucleus (N. III.) on the upper part of the floor of the aqueduct of Fig. 358c.—sagittal section, showing nuclei and Fig. 358d.—nuclei and root-fibres of the third ROOT-FIBRES OF THE THIRD, FOURTH, AND SIXTH AND FOURTH NERVES SEEN ON TRANSVERSE NERVES. (Quain, after Gowers.) sections. (Thane, in Quain's Anatomy.) The transverse sections of Fig. 358d are made respectively through the superior quadrigeminal C.Q.S. (right side of figure), showing details of third nerve, and through inferior quadrigeminal body, C.Q.I, (left side of figure), showing details of fourth nerve. P.L.B., posterior longitudinal bundle ; V.D., descending root of fifth nerve ; N.V., the corresponding sensory nucleus. In these, and the ten following figures, the root-fibres are indicated by the Roman numerals of Sommering's classification ; and the corresponding nuclei are indicated by the same numerals, preceded by the letter N. Sylvius opposite the euperior quadrigeminal body; some of its root-fibres appear to be derived, however, from the nucleus of sixth nerve of the opposite side (N. VI.) through the posterior longitudinal bundle (P.L.B.). The mass of the root-fibres pass ventrally through the tegmentum, traversing the red or tegmental nucleus (Fig 358d), and emerge