thyroid gland. Mark out the incisions for larvngotomy, and for tracheotomy above and below the isthmus. 88. Draw the line of the common carotid artery, and compress the artery upon Chassaignac's tubercle. At what level is the artery crossed by the omohyoid ? Where, and how, would you tie it ? 89. Demarcate the triangle formed by the two bellies of the digastric & stylo-hyoid. Show the position of the several structures it contains. How would you cut down upon the lingual artery ? 90. Feel the pulsation of the subclavian artery, and compress the artery on the first rib. Where, and how, would you tie the artery? Indicate the position, with reference to the artery, of the vein, the cords of the brachial plexus, and the omo-hyoid muscle. 91. Mark the course of the chief superficial nerves of the neck, and that of the spinal accessory nerve. THORAX. 92. Map out on the front of the chest the position of the heart and great arterial & venous trunks. Show how high the left innominate vein may rise in the child's neck. 93. Map out the lungs. Show how high the apex of the lung rises in the neck. 94. Show the point of division of the trachea. 95. Draw the line of the internal mammary artery. 96. Map out the pectoral muscles, and show the direction of their fibres. 97. Count the ribs & intercostal spaces, and show where you would tap the chest. Which rib can you immediately identify ? (The second, since it lies opposite the transverse ridge which marks the junction of the manubrium with the body of the sternum.) If called upon to do so, where would you tap the pericardium ? 98. Count the spines of the vertebrsD, and indicate the correspondences of the principal spines. How would you easily identify the spines of the third, eleventh, and twelfth dorsal, and fourth lumbar vertebrt© ? 99. Point out the vertebra prominens, and feel the bifid spine of the second cervical vertebra. Feel the transverse process of the atlas. 100. Mark out the scapula with its spine, and the acromion process,