348e and, on the other, they open into the longitudinal sinus either by a small aperture or by a narrow channel. Some attention has been called to them in connection with the Pacchionian bodies below referred to. Jugular Veins. It is incorrect, embryologically, to describe the external jugular vein as formed by the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins. The trunk thus formed is merely a communicating branch which opens into the true external jugular vein on the surface of the sterno-mastoid. This true external jugular vein is formed higher up by the junction of the occipital and posterior auricular veins over the posterior border of the mastoid process. This latter vein varies considerably in the adult, for the reason that it is merely a degenerated remnant of the vein which, as above explained, originally drained the blood from the lateral and superior petrosal sinuses through the confluens lateralis, - the vestiges of which arrangement are occasionally preserved in the persistent mastoid vein of the adult. When the communicating branch above referred to is described as the upper part of the external jugular vein, as is customary in descriptive anatomy, the term '^posUrior external jtigular'" is applied to what is the upper part of the true external jugular vein. (Macalister.) The internal jugular vein ends at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where it is joined by the temporo-facial trunk, and becomes the common jugular. (Macalister.) Pituitary Body. Fig. 566.—sagittal section through pituitary body AND neighbouring PARTS. a., anterior lobe ; a', projection from it towards front of infundibulum ; h, posterior lobe connected bj' a solid process with infundibulum ; l.z., lamina cinei-ea ; o, right optic nerve; ch, section of chiasma; r.a., recess of third ventricle above chiasma ; cm., corpus mammilare. (Quain.) It is the smaller posterior lobe of the pituitary body, developed, as explained page 34:8ss, as an outgrowth of the thalamen- cephalon, that the infundibulum connects with the tuber cinereum. Even in the adult this lobe is distinct from the larger anterior lobe of pharyuijeal origin, which surrounds it ex- cept behind. The pituitary bod}- as a whole is oval in shape, slightly flattened from above downwards, and with its long axis transverse. It may easily be removed from the sella turcica by notching the diaphragma sellse. ARACHNOID. - A note to page 335. It is a satisfaction to the Author to have reinstated the Tablet on the arachnoid as it originally stood, and thus once more to have presented this membrane-in company with every anatomist (human anatomist),* and every surgeon, from the days of Bichat up to about fifteen years ago - as, to his mind, it should ever have been presented, specially to medical men, namely, as a serous membrane, - a closed sac (macroscopically) with parietal and visceral layers, continuous, and everywhere lined with endothelium. His having dropped * See foot-note on p. 348f.