7', g', some of the ujiper intercostal veins ; 9, opening of the inferior cava with the Eustachian valve. 25 6p The left innominate vein is at first a small communicating branch which descends obliquely from the left primitive jugular just below its junction with the subclavian, to the middle part of the right primitive jugular. This communicating branch enlarges, while the part of the left primitive jugular sittiated below it diminishes. Tlie former then conveys towards the heart, first the greater part, then the whole of the venous blood from the left side of the head & neck and from the left upper limb, and takes the place of the latter. - The latter, its communication with the auricle being interrupted, and the course of the blood in its interior being reversed, then becomes, as above stated, the left superior intercostal. The portion of the right primitive jugular vein comprised between the right subclavian & the newly formed left innominate, now becomes the right innominate. The portion of the right primitive jugular vein situated below the left innominate becomes (with the corresponding duct of Cuvier) the superior vena cava. The right inferior cardinal vein forms the vena azygos major, ani the lower part of tJie inferior vena lava. E F Figs. 26 & 27.—diagrammatic outline of tub vestige of the left surERiOR cava (e), and of a case OF ITS PERSISTENXE (f). (QUAIN.) [The two views are from the front, the heart being supposed to be removed or seen through.] 1, 1', external jugular veins; 2, 2', subclavian veins ; 3, right innominate; S', right or regular superior cava; U, left innominate, normal in A, rudimentary in b; in JL, 5, the opening of the left superior intercostal vein into the left innominate, 5', the left duct of Cuvier with the vestige of the left superior cava; in B, the left superior vena cava abnormally persistent; 6, coronary sinus; 7, superior intercostal vein of the left side (left superior cardinal); 8, vena azygos major (right lower cardinal);