182 THE SALIVARY GLANDS—1st Tablet. 1 Are the parotid, submaxillary & sublingual, and numerous smaller glands situated benea the mucous membrane of the mouth. They are all conglomerate or racemose gland PAROTID GLAND Lies below & in front of external ear, and stretches forwards to a variable extent on outi surface of masseter, often presenting in that situation and just below zygoma, small detached portion, the soeia parotid! Is bounded by: Above - Zygoma. Below -- Line drawn from angle of jaw to sterno-mastoid. Behind - External auditory meatus, mastoid process, sterno-mastoid, posteri* belly of digastrii Presents: Outer Surface - Lobulated. Covered by integument, fascia & a few fibres ! platysmi Inner Surface - Prolonged deeply in front of and behind styloid process t( wards internal carotid & internal jugular vein, wall of pharynx & dee part of glenoid fosS ' Ant. Surface -- Grooved externally for posterior border of ramus, and pn longed forwards, internally, between the two pterygoid muscle Post, Surface - Eests upon external auditory meatus, mastoid process, steriM mastoid, posterior belly of digastrf Is perforated by several Arteries - External carotid with its posterior auricular^ internal maxillary tanporal branches, and the transverse facial offset of the lattc Veins -Internal maxillary & temporal forming origin of external jugular, and b}-anch of communication between the latter & the internal jugula Nerves -Facial, aiiriculo-temporal & deep facial branches of great amicular, ITS VESSELS & NERVES are — Arteries & Veins, from or to above mentioM trunks. - Lymphatics, to two or three lymphatic glands in substance &« surface of parotid, and from thence to superficial & deep glands of ne - Nerves, from carotid plexus, auriculo-temporal & great auricular. PAROTID DUCT ( Steno's or Stenson's ) -- From anterior border of the gla: and from socia parotidis when it exists. Over masseter a finger's bread! below zygoma, its direction being marked by a line from lower part of concha I midway between free margin of the lip & ala of the nose. Through fat of cheek j buccinator, and obliquely beneath mucous membrane, which it perforates oppositi 2nd molar tooth of upper jjaTf