156 CERVIOAL PLEXUS. Formed by anterior branches of four upper cervical nerves & loops connecting them, and lies beneath sterno-mastoid, in front of levator anguli scapulae & scalenus medius & the four upper vertebras. Communicates through loop between 4th & 5th nerves with brachial plexus, and, through its deep communicating branches, with pneumogastric, spinal accessory, hypoglossal & superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. - Its superficial branches communicate with facial & great occipital, Its branches are superficial & deep. SUPERFICIAL BRANCHES — Wind round posterior border of stemo-mastoid one belo\j the other in the following order, which is also the order in which they ariea Small Occipital - From 2nd cervical; variable in size & sometimes double. Ascends behind sterHO.mastoid to attollens aurem & posterior belly of occipito. frontalis, and perforates deep fascia to integument of back of side of head & upper part of back of pinna; its auricular branches being sometimes supplied by great occipital. Joins with great occipital, great auricular, & posterioi auricular branch of facial. - The second small occipital, or smallest occipital when it exists, arises from 3rd nerve, and sends twigs to back of neck Great Auricular - From 2nd & 3rd cervical nerves. Ascends upon sterno-mastoid & beneath platysma to near lobule of ear, where h divides into branches; Auricular - Several, large; to integument of back of pinna, joining with pos terior auricular branches of facial & pneumogastric. Some twigs supplj outer surface of lobule, and one reaches outer surface of pinna through a fissure between antihelix & concha Mastoid - To integument behind ear, joining with post, auricular branch of facial Facial - To integument of face, and to parotid gland joining with facial. Superficial Cervical - The largest; from 2nd & 3rd, Crosses sterno-mastoid beneath platysma & external jugular vein, and divides into brs. i Ascending - Gives off an ascending twig to external jugular vein, joins witl cervico-facial branch of facial, and, supplying platysma, pierces it tc integument of upper & front part of neck Descending - Pierces platysma to integument of lower & front part of neck. > Superficial Descending - Several large branches from 3rd & 4th. \' Descend between sterno-mastoid & trapezius, and divide into branches: Sternal - Cross origin of sterno-mastoid to integument of front of chest ai far as middle line Clavicular - Cross clavicle (sometimes one of them perforates the bone) t( integument over pectoralis major & deltoid, communicating with cuta neous branches of the superior intercostal nerves Acromial - Over acromion & clavicular origin of trapezius to integument o outer & back part of shoulder