152m passes dorso-medially to the inner side of the lower end of the abducens nucleus (N. VI.) : in ten or twelve bundles from the oculomotor groove on the inner border of the crus cerebri. Some of the root-fibres are believed, however, to reach the nerve-roots of the facial nerve through the posterior longitudinal bundle (See deep origins of facial nerve), and to supply the extra-orbital muscles moving the eye-lids. Fourth Nerve {See Figs. 358a, c, Sf d).—Arises from a much smaller nucleus (N. IV.) on the lower part of the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius opposite the inferior quadrigeminal body, which nucleus is continuous superiorly with the nucleus of the third nerve. The root-fibres first run caudalwards for a short distance, and then curve back- wards and inwards round the aqueduct, decussate in the valve of Vieussens (Fig 358d)> and emerge from its upper part. Sixth Nerve ('S'ee Figs. 358a, c, e, f, ^n.]—Its nucleus is a collection of nerve- cells lying in the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle above the lineae transversifi, and just external to the postero-median fissure and to the ascending portion of the root-fibres of the facial (eminentia teres). The root-fibres of the nerve start from the inner part of the nucleus, embraced on their inner side by the loop of the facial root- FlG. 358F. —SAGITTAL SECTION THROUGH PONS, SHOW ING NUCLEI AND ROOT-FIBRES OP SIXTH AND SEVENTH NERVES. (Qualn.) The ascending' portion of the root-fibres of the seventh nerve is well shown (crossed by the dotted line leading to the nucleus of the sixth nerve), as it ascends between this nucleus and the postero-median fissure. Fig. 858e.—TRANSVERSE SECTION THROUGH PONS, SHOWING NUCLEI AND ROOT-FIBRES OF SIXTH AND SEVENTH NERVES. (Quain, after Schwalbe.) In VII. A., the ascending- portion of the i-oot-fibres of the seventh nerve is shown on trans- verse section, as made plain in Fig. 358f. S.O., superior olive ; A.V., ascending or l/ulbar root of fifth nerve ; VIII. M., medial root of auditory nerve. fibres; they then descend to the lower and central part of the pons, on the inner side of the superior olive (S.O.), below and internally to the root-fibres of the facial, to reach the upper part of the anterior pyramid. Some of the root-fibres are believed, however, to reach the third nerve of the opposite side through the posterior longitudinal bundle. Facial Nerve {See Figs. 358a, e, f, ^ n).—Its nucleus lies externally to, and a little lower than, that of the sixth nerve, but a good deal farther from the surface, in the midst of the reticular formation. The root-fibres take a peculiar and most tortuous course [for full information as to which the reader is referred to investigations of Duval (Testut's Anatomy)]. Briefly described, this course is as follows :—The bundle first