348n INNER SURFACE OP THE HEMISPHERE.—A Note to p. 288. Two fissures are giveu off from the calloso marginal, which are neither very well marked nor very constant, but are of value as affording useful lines of demarcation. They are the sulcus paracentralis and the sulcus subparietalis. The sulcus paracentralis (22) turns upwards a little in front of the ascending tei-minal part of the calloso-marginal fissure, and, with this ascending part of the calloso- niarginal fissure, bounds the paracentral lobule, which latter corresponds, on the mesial surface of the hemisphere, to the ascending frontal and ascending parietal, or pre- and post-central, convolutions of the outer surface. On this lobule, about midway between the ascending terminal parts of the paracentral and calloso-marginal fissures, may be seen the backward termination of the fissure of Rolando (i?.),-in those cases, that is, in which the latter fissure reaches and turns over the mesial margin of the hemisphere. The part of the paracentral lobule in front of the fissure of Rolando is taken, with the marginal convolution, to belong to the frontal lobe; the part of the paracentral lobule behind the fissure of Rolando is taken, with the quadrate lobule, to belong to the temporal lobe. The subparietal fissure (23) passes backwards from the upward bend of the calloso- marginal fissure, and separates the quadrate, or precuniate, lobule from the convolution of the corpus callosum, or gyrus fornicatus,-that is, from the limbic lobe,-hence the term of post-limhic sometimes applied to this fissure. The marginal convolution proper is continuous over the mesial border of the hemisphere with the superior frontal convolution of the outer surface of the hemisphere, and with the gyrus rectus of the under or orbital surface. The calcarine fissure (17) commences near the occipital pole in a bifid extremity ; it arches forward to join the internal parieto-occipital fissure (P.O.), forming with the latter a Y-shaped arrangement, of which the stem indents the isthmus of the conjoined callosal -and hippocampal gyri a little below the splenium of the corpus callosum. This stem, or anterior part of the calcarine fissure, is by far the deepest part of the fissure; it is a complete fissure, which indents the wall of the hemisphere, and gives rise to the hippocampus minor, or calcar avis, in the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The gyrus dentattis (18) is a narrow convolution toothed or notched at its free border, which lies above the dentate or hippocampal fissure and hippocampal gyrus, and below the corpus fimbriatum, which overlaps it. It begins at the splenium of the corpus callosum, where it is continuous with both sets of striae longitudinales on the upper surface of the latter. Erom this point it curves forwards along the isthmus and the upper border of the hippocampal gyrus, to be apparently lost beneath the uncus. The dentate or hippocampal fissure (19) begins at the splenium of the corpus callosum, passes forwards between the gyrus dentatus above, and the isthmus of the hippocampal gyrus below, becoming deeper as it passes forwards, thus indenting the wall of the hemisphere so as to give rise to tlie hippocampus major or cornu Ammonis in the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. It ends beneath the uncus. In connection with the delimitation of the limbic lobe, the hippocampal gyrus is now divided into an anterior portion, the hippocampal gyrus proper, situated in front of the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus, and a posterior portion, the lobulus lingualis, situated below & behind the isthmus, which latter has nothing to do with the limbic lobe. The lingual lobule is bounded by the calcarine fissure and its junction with the internal