S48ii The Formatio Reticularis is a collection of grey matter lying behind the anterior pyramid and olivary body, and so named from its reticular appearance at low powers resulting from the crossing of somewhat large bundles of fibres longitudinal and transverse. The transverse fibres take a wavy course backwards and outwards from the raphe towards the gracile, cuneate, & olivary nuclei, and, in the upper part of the medulla, towards the restiform body (i.e., the restiform body of the structural anatomist, or upper part of the restiform body of the dissectional anatomist). The longitudinal fibres belong anteriorly to the fillet or lemniscus (?), and laterally to the lateral column of the cord after it has given off the crossed pyramidal fibres and the direct cerebellar tract. The nerve-cells are specially large aQd numerous laterally (formatio reticularis grisea), but less so anteriorly (formatio reticularis alba). The formatio reticularis is prolonged throughout the medulla and the mesencephalon (mesocephalon), where it forms the greater part of the tegmentum of the cms cerebri. 4. Medulla: Middle of Olivary Body. - This is the most important section. The central canal has expanded into the 4th ventricle. The two halves of the medulla are parted from each other by a broad median raphe', and each half is further Fig. 590.—section of mebulla oblongata through middle of olivary body. (Schwalbe.) f.l.a., anterior median fissure; n.ar., nucleus arciformis ; p., pyramid; XII., bundle of hypo- glossal nerve emerging from the surface; at b, it is seen coursing between the pyramid and the olivary nucleus, o.;f.a.e., external arciform fibres; 7i.l., nucleus lateralis; a., arciform fibres passing towards restiform body partly through the substantia gelatinosa, g., partly superficial to the ascending root of the 5th nerve, a.V. ; X., bundle of vagus root, emerging ; f.r., formatio reticularis; c r., corpus restiforme, beginning to be formed, chiefly by arciform fibres, superficial and deep ; n.c, nucleus cuneatus; n.g., nucleus gracilis ; t., attachment of the ligula ;/.s., funiculus solitarius ; n.X., n.X.', two parts of the vagus nucleus; n.XII., hypoglossal nucleus; n.L, nucleus of the funiculus teres; n.am., nucleus ambiguus r. raphe ; A., continuation of anterior column of cord ; o', o", accessory olivary nuclei. divided into three triangular area? by the roots of the hypoglossal and pneumogastric nerves {XII., XX.). It will be noted that it is only this central portion of the medulla