152s Fig. 3o8b may now be referred to. It is an extremely clever drawing, though complicated and puzzling at first sight, since it sums up and co-ordinates practically all that has been previously said. It i-equires a little careful study ; but with this it will be easily made out. It is a sagittal section, representing the same parts as Fig. 358a, and also supposed to be transparent. At the upper part of the figure will be seen the nuclei of the third and fourth nerves (III., IV.) with the corresponding root-fibres passing to their respective points of emergence. Dorsally to these Avill be seen the descending sensory root of the fifth nerve (V.d.). Let the reader follow this down. It will be seen to lead to the upper sensory root (V.s.) and to the long or ascending sensory root (Va.), which, unfortunately, is not very plainly marked, but could not well be marked more plainly on accoimt of the various details which have had to be superposed to it. Ventral to the line of the sensory origins of the fifth nerve is the line of the motor origins (1) of the same nerve, (2) above, of the third and fourth nerves, and (3) below, of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves (nucleus ambiguus). The nuclei of the third and fourth nerves (III., IV.) have already been seen. Let the reader carry on the line of these two nuclei parallel to, and ventral to, the descending root of the fifth nerve, and he will come upon the motor root of the fifth nerve (V.m.), somewhat concealed in its upper part by the common bundle of the sensory fibres of the same nerve. Let the reader continue the line a good deal lower down, through the nucleus and root- fibres of the auditory nerve (VIII.), and he will come upon the elongated motor nucleus (nucleus ambiguus) common to the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves (IX. & X., n.a.). This is quite distinct in its lower part, though in its upper part it is somewhat concealed, and unavoidably so, by the superposed facial, sixth, and auditory root-fibres. Now in the line of the motor nuclei of the fifth, glosso-pharyngeal, and pneumogastric nerves, below the nucleus of the fifth nerve, and above the nuclei of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves, there will just be perceived, heavily overlaid, the nucleus of the facial nerve, marked VII. It is overlaid, and again unavoidably so, by the root-fibres of the sixth and auditory nerves. This nucleus of the facial nerve will be seen to be the starting point of a kind of figure of interrogation laid flat ( C'- ). This is the intra-pontine portion of the facial nerve. In the ring of the figure of interrogation is the nucleus of the sixth nerve (VI,), whose root-fibres cross both the nucleus and the root-fibres of the facial nerve. (This part of Fig. 3o8b will make plain the statements as to the deep origin of the facial nerve and the fasciculus teres, pp. 152ni & 152n.'> Below the nuclei of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves, almost in a line with them, and crossed, as explained below, by the lower part of the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve (XII.), is the upper part of the nucleus of the spinal accessory nerve (XL). There will thus be seen to lie ventrally in the medulla, and in a line from below upwards, the motor nuclei, first of the spinal accessory, then of the pneumogastric and glosso-pharyngeal (nucleus ambiguus), then of the facial nerve, then of the fifth nerve, and finally, after a considerable interval, those of the fourth and third nerves. The motor root-fibres of the facial, glosso-pharyngeal, and pneumogastric nerves are seen to run dorsally, - those of the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves to reach the sensory nucleus of these nerves (only marked IX., as it was scarcely possible to put in an X anywhere where it could well be seen). The conjoined root-fibres from these