348hh aaterior cornua are completely cut off from the remainder of the grey matter, and pushed somewhat aside. 3. Medulla: Upper Part of Pyramid and Lower Part oj Olivary Body. - The continuations of the anterior cornua are isolated masses of grey matter lying quite to the side, and known as the Lateral Nuclei {n.l). The large claval and cuneate nuclei have made their appearance in the corresponding fasciculi, and by these the posterior cornua and substantia gelatinosa (g.) are so completely pushed outwards that the substantia gelatinosa reaches the surface and gives rise to the funiculus and tubercle of Rolando. The central canal lies well to the back, close to the bottom of the postero-median fissure, which is distinctly widening out. The grey matter around it contains two groups of nerve- FlG. .589.—SECTION OF MEDULLA OBLONGATA IN UPPER PART OF PYRAMIDAL DECUSSATION. (Schwalbe, Quain.) a.m./., anterior median fissure ;/.a., superficial arciform fibres emerging from the fissure ; , pyramid ; n.ar., nucleus of the arciform fibres ; f.a.', deep arciform fibres becoming superficial; o., lower end of olivary nucleus ; o.', accessory olivary nucleus ; n.l., nucleus lateralis; f.r., formatio reticularis; /".a.2, arciform fibres proceeding from formatio reticularis; g., substantia gelatinosa of Rolando; a.V., scending root of fifth nerve; n.c, nucleus cuneatus ; n.c.', external cuneate nucleus; f.c, funiculus uneatus; n.g., nucleus gracilis;/.flf., funiculus gracilis; p.m.f., posterior median fissure; c.c, central canal surrounded by grey matter, in which are, n.XI., nucleus of the spinal accessory, and n.XII., nucleus of the hypoglossal; s.d., decussation of fillet or superior pyramidal decussation. ells, one in front of the canal, and the other behind it: the anterior cells are the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve (n.XII.); the posterior cells are the nucleus of the spinal accessory (n XI). The remainder of the grey matter is broken up into the reticular formation. The olivary nucleus (o.) is small and of simple outline; the secondary olivary nucleus (o.') is seen on its inner side. The ascending root of the 5th nerve (a. F.) is seen capping the substantia gelatinosa. As points of secondary importance, one may notice the arciform nucleus (n.ar.) lying external to the anterior pyramid, and the external cuneate nucleus {n.c.') lying external and posterior to the principal nucleus of that name.