234 THE ARCH of the AORTA. From upper part of left ventricle to left side of lower border of body of 5th* dorsal vertebra, describing^ a curve, the convexit} of which is directed upwards & to the right Is divided into : - ASCENDING PORTION _ About two inches long. Upwards, forwards, & to the right from opposite left side of sternum on a level with lower border of 3rd costal cartilages to upper border of 2nd costal cartilage of right side close to sternum. Contained in pericardium together with trunk of pulmonary artery. - RELATIONS : In Eront-Pulmonary artery, right auricular appendix, pericardium, loose areolar tissue, remains of thymus gland, sternum. Bebind - Right pulmonary vessels, & root of right limg. To THE Right - Superior vena cava, right auricle. To THE Left - Triink of pulmonary artery. TRANSVERSE PORTION — Backwards & to the left from upper border of 2nd costal cartilage of right side close to sternum to left side of 4th dorsal vertebra. - RELATIONS: In Front-Left pneumogastric & phrenic nerves, cardiac branches of sympathetic, left lung & pleura. Behind - Trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct, left recurrent laryngeal nerve, great or deep cardiac plexus. Above - Left innominate vein, innominate, left common carotid, & left subclavian arteries. Below - Left bronchus, right pulmonary artery, left recurrent laryngeal nerve, remains of ductus arteriosus. DESCENDING PORTION — Along left side of 4th & 5th to lower border of 5th• dorsal vertebrsB, where it becomes thoracic aorta. - RELATIONS : In Front - Pleura, left bronchus. Behind - Bodies of 4th and 5th dorsal vertebrfc. To THE Right - CEsophagus, thoracic duct. To THE Left - Left lung & pleura. The aorta is somewhat dilated jnst above its origin, where it pre- sents externally three small bulgicgs corresponding to the sinuses of Valsalva; one of these bulgings is anterior, and two are posterior ; and from the anterior and left ones the coronary arteries are seen to arise. The most prominent part of the arch lies about f of an inch be) ind the posterior surface of the sternum. The height to Avhich the arch i sually rises in the chest is about 1 inch below the upper border of the sternum. BRANCHES — Left or Anterior, & Right or Posterior Coronary, Innominate, Left Common Carotid, Left Subclavian. * Up to a few years ago there .vas accord between all the anatom"sts the author knows of (human dissectionul anatomists, both British and Foreig-n) as to arch of the aorta presenting ascending, transverse, and deseending portions, the latter limited by none, whether or not described separately (Cruveilhier, Sappey), at a point higher than the left bronchus. For the description introduced since embryolotjy has been made one of the bases of anatomy, see page 256j. It will be seen, - though this may not strike one at once, - that this description suppresses the descending portion of the arch of the aorta as formerly described, and joins this portion of a.orta to the Thoracic aorta. The departure - though evidently one that should not be overlooked - is liable not to be noticed at first sight, for the reason that all the levels of the thoracic viscera being now lowered by one vertebra, the aj'ch of the aorta, shnm of its descending portion, still come.s to end, as formerly stated, opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra. Making the necessary correction as to the above lowering of the thoracic levels, the arch of the aorta as hitherto described - tliat is including its descending portion - mvxst now be taken as ending opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra. It will be seen that to transform the dissectional into the "scientific" depcription, one has simply to ignore the last of the three paragraphs given above, to call the a'^cending portion of the aorta the "Ascending aorta," and the transverse portion the "Arch," and, as a necessary consequence, to include the left bronchus among the anterior relations of the Thoracic aorta, which must then made to begin opposite the loiar border of the fourth dorsal vertebra.