348jj that is so divided, and not the whole length of the medulla. This central portion is the only one that is in any way tripartite. The three areee must be referred to separately. a. - Anterior or Internal Area - Comprised between the median raphe and the roots of the hypoglossal nerve. This is occupied anteriorly by the pyramid (p.), and posteriorly by the formatio reticularis alba. h. - Middle Area. - Comprised between the roots of the hypoglossal and pneumogastric nerves, this is occupied in front by a wavy line of grey matter, the nucleus of the olivary bady, or corpus dentatum(o.) ; internal and posterior to this are the two accessory olivary nuclei. Posteriorly is the formatio reticularis grisea. c. - Posterior or External Area. - Behind the roots of the pneumogastric nerve. This is occupied by a considerable portion of the grey matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle, greatly spread out. Here the anterior & posterior nuclei of the previous section have now become, the one internal (XII.), - nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve, - and the other external (X.); from this latter nucleus there now arises, not the spinal accessory nerve, as in the previous section, but the pneumogastric. Externally to the grey matter proper there are the prolongations of the claval and cuneate nuclei, and of the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando. The ascending root of the 5th nerve is again seen capping the substantia gelatinosa. As points of secondary importance, one may notice the fasciculus teres, or ascending intrapontine portion of the facial nerve (n.f.), in the inner part of the grey matter, and a rounded bundle of white fibres, the funiculus solitarius (f.s.), situated a little internal and anterior to the claval nucleus, and which is supposed by some anatomists to be the root of the phrenic nerve. The nucleus of the olivary body, or corpus dentatum, takes the form of a thm wavy lamina which is curved round at its edge so as to form an ovoid scalloped capsule. The open part, or hilum, of this capsule, looks towards the middle line and receives a considerable tract of white fibres, the so-called olivary peduncle, which emanate from the raphe'; and are derived to all appearance from the opposite olive.* * " The fibres of the olivary peduncles diverge as they pass to the grey lamina. They are partly lost in the grey matter of the olivary nucleus, but mostly pass in small bundles through the lamina, those which are more posterior turning backwards and coursing obliquely through the posterior part of the lateral area to join the Restiform body and thus to pass to the cerebellum as internal arched fibres. Others, after coursing through the grey lamina and running between the longitudinal fibres which cover the olive, reach the surface, where they bend round and are continued as part of the layer of external arched fibres into the Restiform body. Through the Restiform body, the arched fibres and the fibres of the olivary peduncle, the cerebellar hemisphere of - one side is connected, therefore, with the olivary nuclei of both sides. But the connection with the opposite side is the more intimate, for it is found that in cases of atrophy of the cerebellar hemisphere of one side, the olive of the opposite side is atrophied while that of the same side is intact." - (" Quain's Anatomy." 10th Edition.) " The arciform fibres are distinguished into external & internal, or superficial & deep. The outer or superjicial arched Jilrts emerge for the most part from the anterior median fissure, and, passing over the pyramids and olives, many of them go to the Restiform body.