160 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. Formed as follows by anterior divisions of 5th, 6th, 7th, & 8th cervical and 1st dorsal oSi Fifth Sixth Cervical unite between anterior & middle scaleni, and form th OUTEE PRIMARY CORl Eighth First Dorsal unite behind scalenus anticus, and form the innb Seventh forms alone the middle primary cord. [primary COEl All three primary cords divide into anterior posterior divisions. Anterior divisions of outer d:' middle primary cords form the outer cord. | Anterior division of i7iner primary cord forms the inner cord. | Posterior divisions of all three'^xiraoxj cords form tlie posterior cord. Broad between anterior &, middle scaleni, where anterior divisions of the nerves li above 2nd pai't of subclavian artery; contracted opposite clavicle, where inner ii outer cords lie at fore part of plexus on outer side of 3rd part of subclavian arter & of 1st part of axillary; again expanded in axilla, where the three cords lie o inner, outer & posterior aspects of 2nd part of axillary, and where they break u into the large nerves of upper liml Commnnicates with the cervical plexus through loop between 4th & 5th nerves & throng branch from 5th nerve to phrenic, and with middle & inferior ganglia of sym|jatLeti( BRANCHES—Are I ABOVE THE CLAVICLE: | Post, or Long Thoracic, or Ext. Respiratory of Sir C. Bell - Froij 5th & 6th nerves, the two roots uniting in substance of scfl lenus medius Deeply along side of chest behind axillary vessels & cords of brachii plexus as far as lowest digitation of serratus magna Suprascapular - From back of trunk formed by union of 5th & 6th. Backwards & outwards beneath trapezius & through suprascapuh foramen to supraspinous fossa, where lies between supraspini tus & the bou Bound spine of scapula to infraspinous fossa. - Supplies supra- & infn spinati (two twigs to each), shoulder-joint & scapul IVEuSCUlar - To rhomboidei & frequently to levator anguli scapulae (from 5f nerve), subclavius (from 5th & 6th, anastomoses frequent with phrenic), scaleni & longus colli (variably from 6th 7th Communicating - From 5th cervical to phrenic on anterior scalenus. BELOW THE CLAVICLE — The branches are given off from the three cor« as follows, froB Outer Cord - External anterior thoracic, outer head of median, mu culo-cutaneous or external cutaneor Inner Cord - Internal anterior thoracic, inner head of median, ulns internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous or n. of Wrisber Posterior Cord - The three subscapular nerves, musculo-spiral circumfle