330 THE MESOCEPHALON — (Surface Anatomy) I Is the connecting link between the cerebrum, cerebellum, & medulla oblongata. It consists of: - ■ ; Pons Varolii or Tuber Annulare, Avith the superficial & deep transverse fibres of the Middim V Peduncles of the CerehelluiirM ■, Crura Cerebri, divided into under or fasciculated portion and up])er part or tegmentum ; ■ . Inferior Peduncles of the Cerebellum, and Superior Peduncles with the Valve of Vieussens ; H Tahercula. Qaadrigemina & Pineal Gland. Ik Pons Varolii or Tuber Annulare - Broad transverse band of white fibres which arch like a bridg|[i from one hemisphere of the cerebellum to the other, forming laterally the middle peduncles of the cerebellum. Presents: Under Sukface - Marked by a median shallow groove occupied by the basilar artery, and due to the prominence on either side of the middle line resulting from the prolongation of the pyramids underneath the transverse fibres. Gives off laterally the two roots, anterior small or motor, posterior large or sensory, of the 5th pair of cranial nerves Upper Border - The most prominent & the most convex, from beneath which the crura cerebri are seen to emerge. Lower Border - Less prominent & less convex, into which the anterior pyramids, olivary fasciculi, & lateral tracts of the medulla are seen to penetrate, and from the anterior aspect of which the 6th cranial nerves are sometimes given off. - Laterally the pons Varolii is continued into the two Middle Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Crura Cerebelli - Which form its two lateral portions. Crura Cerebri - Two thick cylindrical or slightly flattened bundles of white fibres about | of an in^h long & rather wi('er in front than behind, which emerge from the anterior border of the pons and pass forwards & outwards to the corpora striata & optic thalami. They are crossed externally by the 4th nerve & inferiorly by the optic tract, the anterior border of which latter is slightly adherent to them. Their inner border bounds posteriorly the interpeduncular space, and ! presents a slight groove, the sulcus oculomotorius^ from which arises the 3rd nerve, and which separates internally the inferior portion of the crus, pes or crusta, from the upper portion, or tegmentum. There is a similar groove on the outer side. These groves correspond to the locus niger. Inferior Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Processus e Cerebello ad MeduUam - Two thick bundles of white fibres which descend from the inner & under part of the cerebellum to the back of the medulla, where they join the processus cuneati. They form the lower part of the lateral boundary of the 4th ventricle. They are, from the dissector's point of view, the two restiform bodies described from above downwards, instead of being described, as previously, from below upwards. Superior Peduncles of the Cerebellum or Processus e Cerebello ad Testes - Two thick bundles of white fibres which ascend from the upper & inner part of the cerebellum to the testes, forming part of the roof & of the lateral boundary of the 4th ventricle. They are connected together by the Valve of Vieussens - Thin transparent lamina of white matter narrow in front, where it presents a slight; median ridge, the frenulum, and, on either side of this, the roots of the 4th nerve, broader behind, where it is continued into the under surface of the superior vermiform process and is crossed by the lingula, which is formed by a few transverse bands of grey matter prolonged upwards from the cerebellum. It forms the roof of the aqueduct of Sylvius & a part of the roof of the 4th ventricle. Tubercula Quadrigemina - Four small rounded eminences separated by a crucial depression, and ; situated below the posterior extremity or splenium of the corpus callosum, the velum inter- positum intervening, above & behind the posterior covnmissure & the 3rd ventricle, above & in front of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum & the valve of Vieussens. Anteriok or Nates - Are larger, darker, slightly oblong from before backwards, and connected with the external geniculate body & the commencement of the optic tract hy broad white bands, the anterior or superior brachia. Posterior or Testes - Are smaller, lighter in colour, more exactly rounded, and connected,- apparently, at least (see note, p. 315), - with the infernal gernculate bod// & the commencement of the optic tracts by narrower bands, the posterior or inferior brachia. Pineal Gland or Conarium - Small conical reddish-grey body situated between the nates, retained in position by a fold of pia mater derived from the under surface of the velum interpositum, and connected with the remainder of the cerebrum by means of a few transverse fibres belonging to the posterior commissure, and also by means of its Peduncles, which run forwards over upper & inner part of optic thalami to anterior crura of fornix, with which they unite. The pineal gland consists of a number of follicles joined together by a little connective tissue, and containing a transparent viscid fluid and a quantity of gritty sabulous matter, the acervulus cerebri.