348i IJ. THE CEREBRAL HEMISPHERES. fThese Notes should read in conjunction with the pages they are respectively stated to refer to.) FISSURES ON THE CONVEX SUBFACE.—A Note to page 280. The fissure of Rolando, or central sulcus (E., Fig. 068), begins either close to, or upon, the supero-mesial border of the hemisphere, - and when indenting the supero-mesial border, it usually sends a slight backward prolongation into the paracentral lobule on the inner surface of the hemisphere (R, Fig. 572). It is often somewhat sinuous, presenting two slight bends, or genua, the superior one with concavity forwards, the inferior one inversely disposed. It sometimes joins with the fissure of Sylvius. Beginning in the vallecula Sylvn at the outer part of the anterior perforated space, the stem, or undivided part, of the fissure of Sylvius passes outwards between the temporal pole and the orbital surface of the frontal lobe, and divides into the already mentioned posterior limb, and two shorter limbs, anterior and ascending. The anterior liinh (S-) runs parallel to the superciliary margin of the hemisphere, separating tlie orbital and triangular portions (3 & 2) of the inferior frontal convolution; the ascending limb (S^) passes vertically upwards, separating the triangular and basilar portions of the same (2 & 1). (See Fig. 568.) The division of fissures into complete, - that is, involving the whole thickness of the cerebral wall and appearing on the inner surface of the same, - and incomplete, or mere surface furrows, scarcely touches the question of cerebral topography. The complete fissures - three in number, the dentate or hippccumpal, the collateral, and the calcarine Cauterior portion only), all lie on the inner surface of the hemisfihere, and only one of these, the calcarine, is interlobar in character. The fissure of Svlvius is sometimes de- scribed as a complete fissure, since it is seen to correspond embryo'ogically to the corpus striatum ; but the corpus striatum is formed, not as an infolding of the mantle wall, but as a thickening of the floor of the prosencephalon. (See Development of the Fissure of Sylvius, p. 348tr.) (The calloso-marginal fisi-ure may be taken as an interlobar fissure in connection with the delimitation of the limbic lobe.)