POSTERIOR BRANCHES of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. OCCIPITAL — Arises just below ^sterior belly of digastric, and is crossed close to it origin by hypoglossal nerve Upwards and backwards beneath posterior belly of digastric, stylo-hyoid, & portion ci parotid gland, crossing internal carotid artery, internal jugular veil glosso.pharyngeal, pneumogastrio & spinal accessory nerves, - and the between mastoid process & transverse process of atlai Horizontally backwards in occipital groove beneath sterno-mastoid, digastric, spleniu & trachelo-mastoid, - and then between trapezius & complexu Pierces upper part of trapezius, ascends beneath integument with great occipital nervi and divides into numerous branches to upper & back part of heai Gives off branches Muscular - Numerous small ones, and one large one to npper part of sterni mastoi Auricular - To back of ear. Meningeal - Through jugular foramen to dura mater of posterior fossa. Arteria Princeps Cervicis - Descends beneath splenius, and divides into SuPEEPiciAL Bk. - Descends between splenius & complexus, and auast moses with superficial cervical branch of transversalis col Deep Be. - Descends beneath complexus, and anastomoses with vertebr & with deep cervical branch of superior intercoati POST. AURICULiAR •—Arises beneath or above digastric & stylo-hyoid, and ascen under cover of parotid gland & beneath facial nerve to groove betwe^ cartilage of ear and mastoid process, where divides ir Ant. Sc Post. Branches - Which communicate respectively with posteri branch of temporal & with occipital, and of which the former gives f numerous branches to back of ear. - Gives StylO-mastoid Art. ( Sometimes derived from occipital). - Through sty mastoid foramen to .tympanum & semicircular canals, joining with ty; panic branch of internal maxillary, with which it forms in young m jects & Yascular circle round membrana tympa INTERNAL BRANCH of the EXTERNAL CAROTID. I ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL Long, slender; from back of external carol near its orig . A icends vertically to base of skull, in front of internal carotid artery and between tl b vessel & side of pharynx, giving off branch : External - Small, irregular, to 8th, 9th, and sympathetic nerves, and adjoin J ; '■ musci. ■ Pharyngeal - Three or four J to the three constrictors, stylo.pharyngeus, Ei- " ' ' tachian tube, soft palate & tori. Meningeal - To dura mater through foramina lacera posterius & medium, id sometimes through anterior condyloid forami