EXPLANATION OF FIGUEE 485. The figure presents :- A. - In the Lumbar and Sacral Regions - A superficial view of the undisturbed Erector Spinse, 1. B. - In the Thoracic Region on the right side - A view of the undisturbed Ilio-costalis, 2, and Longissimus Dorsi, 3, - the two muscles being- separated by a narrow cellular interval, - and of their undis- turbed continuation-muscles, the Musculus Accessorius and Ilio-costalem, 4, Cervicalis Ascendens, 5, Transversalis Colli, 6 ; and Trachelo-mastoid, 7. O. - In tub Thoracic Region on the left side. - A view of the foregoing muscles separated and turned aside, - the Ilio-costalis being turned outwards, and the Longissimus Dorsi inwards. The turning outwards of the Ilio-costalis conceals the costal insertions both of the muscle itself (except the one or two lower ones, 8, 8, which are just visible), and of the musculus accessorius at ilio-costalem (except the one or two upper ones, 9, 9, which may just be perceived quite at the upper part of the thorax). The displacement brings into view the origins of the Musculus Accessorius at Ilio-costalem, 10 to 10, and those of the Cervicalis Ascendens, 11 to 11. The turning inwards of the Longissimus Dorsi exposes : - {a) Inferiorly, its external thoracic insertions (into the nine lower ribs internally to their angles), 12 to 12. (b) Higher up, the upper part of its otiter thoracic insertions (into the tips of the transverse processes, 13 to 13), - the lower inner thoracic insertions being concealed by the outer thoracic insertions. The tendons forming the inner thoracic insertions are seen to be longer and more slender than those forming the outer thoracic insertions. (c) Quite at the upper part, the continuation muscles, the Transversalis Colli, 14, and Trachelo-mastoid, 15. Quite at the upper part of the figure, on either side of the middle line, there are seen the Complexus muscle, 16, with the Biventer Cervicis, 17. Between this and the trachelo-mastoid there is seen the transverse process of the atlas, with portions of the superior and inferior oblique muscles.