2561i part of the arch, and seen to arise from the back of the descending portion. Such an artery is termed " aherrant:' It is the fourth branch given off from the aorta, the three previous branches being in succession the right common carotid, the left common carotid, and the left subclavian. The artery reaches its normal situation on the first rib between the scaleni muscles by passing behind the aortic arch, the trachea, and the oesophagus. Fig. 21.—diagram showing the origin of the displaced subclavian artery, (quain.) and it is not looped round by the inferior laryngeal nerve, which nerve in this case passes directly to the larynx. Here the right fourth arch has atrophied, and it is the lower part of the right descending root that conveys the blood to the terminal portion of the subclavian artery. The left fourth arch being absent, the inferior laryngeal nerve is not drawn down out of its course to the larynx. * An easily explained approach to the above condition may also present. With * The " arteria aberrans " of adult human anatomy, and its occasionallj^ enlarged condition, may here be referred to. This artery is usually a very small branch arising from the under surface of the right subclavian, or from the right superior intercostal [costo-cervical trunk, Macalister], which descends behind the ossaphagus, either to be lost in the connective tissue in front of the vertebrae, or, when it is larger than usual, to join the thoracic aorta below the ductus arteriosus. This artery is the remains of the lower part of the right descending root. When, as sometimes occurs, the usual commencement of the right subclavian artery, - the fourth right arch, - becomes obliterated, this channel dilates, and constitutes the main tmnk supplying the upper limb, - which trunk arises leftmost from ihe arch of the aorta, and passes behind the trachea and oesophagus. In such cases there is necessarily a direct, not a recurrent, course of the right inferior laryngeal nerve [Macalister].