cornu. The posterior cormi is long, narrow, and pointed, its extremity, or apex cornu, nearly reaching the bottom of the postero-lateral fissure. The slightly enlarged portion following this is the caput, and the succeeding constricted part is the cervix. Capping the apex cornu is a slightly modified semi-transparent grey matter, the subsiantia gelitinosa of Rolando. In the thoracic region, especially in its upper part, there projects from the concavity of the crescent, nearly opposite the grey commissure, the lateral cornu, or ntermediate process of Gowers. Above, in the cervical region, and below, in the lumbar region, this blends with the anterior cornu, - to r'^app'^ar, however in the sacral region. The amount of the grey matter is everywhere proportionate to the size of the nerve-roots given off. It is greatest in the cervical and lumbar enlargements. Spiyial Nerves.—These are thirty-one in number on each side, eight cervical - counting the i?iib-occipital nerve - twelve dorsal, five lumbar, five sacral, one coccygeal. These nerves split up into tlieir anterior and posterior divisions immediately beyond the root-ganglion below referred tf). Nerve-Roots.—For each nerve these are two in number, anterior and posterior. The latter, except in the case of the sub-occipital nerve, is the larger of the two. It is marked by the large oval root-ganglion, situated just internal to where the two roots unite to form the spinal nerve-trunk. The lower lumbar and upper sacral nerve-roots are by far the largest; but the sequence rapidly falls in regard to size, the two lower sacral and coccygeal roots being the smallest of all. The cervical nerve-roots are quite small to begin with, but they rapidly increase in size from above downwards. The roots of the first thoracic nerve are large ; those which succeed them are relatively small and uniform in size. The upper cervical nerve-roots are short and horizontal; but length and obliquity increase from above downwards. The lower dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccygeal nerve- root^ descend almost vertically for a considerable distance, forming the well-known bundle termed the cauda equina. Except in the case of the two upper cervical, and of the sacral and coccygeal nerves, the root-ganglia lie in the intervertebral foramina just externally to the point where the antfrior and posterior roots perforate the dura mater The two xxpper cervical ganglia lie on the posterior arch of the atlas and the laminae of the axis respectively. The sacral and coccygeal ganglia lie in the sacral canal, the coccygeal ganglion occupying about the mid-point of the corresponding root. Fihim Terminale.—'Y\\^ filum terminale lies in the midst of the long lower nerve- roots, from which it is di&tingui>hed by its glistening appearance, and from its being- attached 10 the apex of the medullary cone. Opposite the second or third sacral vertebra it pierces the tapering tube of dura n ater. receiving an investment from it; it ends by blending with the periosteum on the back of the coccyx or last piece of the sacrum. The central canal of the cord is prolonged in^o it for about half its length. Nervous elements can be traced down to this point. Below this there is only connective tissue found.