348oo The roots of the 4th nerve are seen a little higher up to ascend in the fyr-^y matter on either side of the aqueduct, and to decussate mesially in the valve of Vieus^^'^ns before emerging from the upper part of the same. The fillet or lemniscus is formed by the fibres from the cuneate and (/racihrivrlet, which decussate behind the anterior pyramid, and then turn upwards. It forms at first a longitu- dinal bundle situated behind the pyramid, in the ventral part of the formatio roticularis. Here it divides into a large lateral portion, the lower fillet, a smaller mesial portion, the mesial fillet, and a middle portion, the upper fillet. The lower fillet passes obliquely upwards and outwards to the surface of the crus cerebri, and then curves upwards and inwards on the outer side of the tegmentum towards the inferior corpus quadrigeminum. The mesial fillet passes into the mesial part of the crusta at the side of the pyramidal tract, and is lost in the subthalamic region. The upper fillet is believed to be prolonged to the superior corpus quadrigeminum and to the occipital region. 8. - Quadrigeminal Bodies, Crura Cerebri, Tegmentum, Aqueduct of Sylvius, Superior Peduncles of the Cerebellum:-The transverse fibres have now disappeared, and the longitudinal pyramidal fibres are grouped together in two compact masses, the crura cerebri,-the crura cerebri proper, i.e., the crura cerebri of the dissector. Separated from these by the locus niger and the fillet, which is widening out preparatory Figs. 597 A^^D 598.—sections of mesocephalon (MESExcEPiiAiiON). (Natural size.) A : Section through inferior corpora quadrigemina. B : Section through superior coqDora quadrigemina. cr., crusta; s.n., substantia nigra; t., tegmentum; s, aqueduct of Sylvius with the surrounding grey matter ; e.g., grey matter of corpora quadrigemina ; l.fj., lateral groove ; p.L, posterior longitudinal bundle; d. F., descending root of fifth nerve; s.c.p., superior cerebellar peduncle ;/., fillet JV^. ///., nucleus of third nerve: its roots are seen traversing the red or tegmental nucleus, and emerging at ///. to its division into three bands above mentioned, - lying above them, and uniting them superiorly, - is the prolongation of the formatio reticularis, here forming the greater part of what is called the upper part or tegmentum of the crura cerebri, - which upper part has little to do, however, with the crura cerebri of the dissector. Forming part of the transverse fibres of the formation about this region are, mesially, the decussation of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and, laterally, the lower or lateral fillet, reaching up to the tubercula quadrigemina. The aqueduct of Sylvius, which is more or less cross- shaped interiorly, tends to become cylindrical. It is surrounded by the central grey matter of the iter, in the ventral part of which there is seen on either side the group of cells from which the 3rd nerve arises. The roots of this nerve are seen to pass downwards towards the inner surface of the crus, first traversing the red or tegmental nucleus. Externally to the nucleus of the 8rd nerve is the descending root of the 5th nerve {d. V.), with jtB rnu'lenR. The posterior longitudinal bundle, occupies the Bam«3 position as in thg