228i distinctly seen in the embryo, the left recurrent laryngeal embraces, not the arch of the aorta at all, but the ductus arteriosus, at first horizontal in direction and subjacent (caudal) the aorta. Its coming to embrace the arch of the aorta is due to the lengthening out of the latter vessel, by which the duct is pulled upwards distally, and so comes to assume a vertical direction, and thus to lie on the side (the right side) of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, while it is the aorta that gets to lie above the nerve. The final arrangement on the right side, where the recurrent laryngeal nerve embraces the first portion of the subclavian artery, is reached by a similar retrogressive change, but pushed somewhat further. The first right aortic arch, which corresponds embryologically to the ductus arteriosus, disappears entirely, and the nerve thus gets to hitch round the areh above, or second aortic arch, or first part of the subclavian artery. Why the nerves are recurrent at all, and hitch round (or are drawn down by) corresponding vessels on the two sides of the neck, is as follows : Thorax and neck were undifferentiated, and the neck absent, or extremely short, in the early stages of embryonic life; and the nerves, when first formed, went straight to the larynx, passing below, or internally to, the large vessels referred to. Later on the lengthening out of the neck occurred, and the heart dragged down the large vessels into the now differentiating thorax ; and the vessels dragged down the nerves, which thus came to hitch round them. Facial Nerve. The portio intermedia of Wrisherg has its deep origin in the upper part of the glosso-pharyngeal nucleus, and often communicates at its emergence with both the auditory and the facial. It is closely connected with the geniculate ganglion, and probably sends some filaments also in the course of the large petrosal; but it seems to run mainly in the course of the chorda tympani. The chorda tympani, in addition to the above source of origin, receives a communicating branch from the otic ganglion, as above stated, before it joins the gustatory. Then, running in the course of the latter nerve, it shares its distribution to the sub- maxillary and sublingual glands, and to the papillfB of the mucous membrane of the anterior two-thirds of the tongue. The facial nerve sends also other branches to the tongue (See page 228h). Jacobson's and the Petrosal Nerves. The nomenclature of the petrosal nerves has long called for revision ; and this is specially the case since the minute investigations of Krause have somewhat disturbed the harmonious and parallel description of these nerves as formerly given. As the old description went, - as given by Continental anatomists (Sappey, Testut, & others), the facial nerve gives off the large superficial petrosal nerve 3 (Fig. 449e) (going to Meckel's ganglion), and the small superficial petrosal nerve, 15 (going to the otic ganglion); and Jacobson's branch of the glosso-pharyngeal gives off the large deep petrosal nerve joining the large superficial petrosal nerve (and going with it to Meckel's ganglion), and the small deep petrosal nerve joining the small superficial petrosal nerve