348UU There now appear such superficial infoldings as do not cause projections into the ventricular cavities, - these infoldings causing both relatively deep primary, and relatively shallow secondary and tertiary sulci. The first sulcus to appear, and the most important of the primary sulci, is that known under the name of fissure of Kolando. Finally, there appears the evagination of the anterior part of each lateral ventricle, which forms the olfactory lobes. In man, these diminish somewhat in size in the later stages of evolution, and become filled up with nervous substance. In most mammals, however, whose sense of smell is keener than that of man, the olfactory lobes attain a considerable size, and remain hollow, their cavity not unfrequently remaining continuous with that of the ventricle. EXPLANATION OF FIGUEES NOT FULLY EXPLAINED IN THE TEXT. (NERVE CENTRES.) Fig. 501.—under surface of the cerebrum. (Sappey, Hirschfeld.') 1, 2, 3, frontal, temporal, and occipital poles; 4, 5, anterior and posterior extremities of the longi- tudinal fissure ; 6, 7, stem of the fissure of Sylvius, and anterior perforated space ; 8, 9,10, tuber cinereum, with the infundibulum corpora albicantia, and locus perforatus posticus; 11, crus cerebri; 12, pons Varolii; 13, 14, 15, medulla oblongata, anterior pyramid, and olivary body. The Cranial nerves are marked I. to XII. according to Sommering's classification : I. - Olfactory ; II. - Optic; III. - Third, or Motor oculi ; IV. - Fourth, or Pathetic ; V. - Fifth, or Trigeminal; VI. - Sixth, or Abducens; VII. - Seventh, or Facial; VIII. - Eighth, or Auditory ; IX. - Ninth, or Glosso-pharyngeal; X. - Tenth, or Pneumogastric ; XI. - Eleventh, or Spinal accessory ; XII. - Twelfth, or Hypoglossal. Figs. 504 & 508.—mesial section of the hemispheres. (Hirschfeld.) 1, 2. 3, frontal, temporal, and occipital poles ; 4, 7, 8, corpus callosum, with its posterior extremity or splenium, and its anterior extremity or genu, the latter continued into the beak or rostrum ; 5, 6, con- volution and ventricle of the corpus callosum ; 10, fornix ; 11, septum lucidum; 12, 13, upper and inner surfaces of optic thalamus, - a portion of the latter being shaved off to show the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr passing up from the twisting upon itself of the anterior crus of the fornix in the corpus albicans, 15 ; 16 foramen of Monro ; 17, divided anterior commissure ; 18,19, posterior crus of fornix and corpus fimbriatum 20, 21, dentate convolution and fissure ; 23, 24, olfactory process and bulb. Figs. 511 & 528.—deep dissection of the brain from underneath. (Hirschfeld.) 1, 2, corpora geniculata and commencement of optic tract; 3, 4, divided crus cerebri and optic thalami; 5, 6, corpus albicans and tuber cinereum ; 7, splenium of corpus callosum, showing its transverse fibres; 8, 9, longitudinal and oblique fibres of under surface and borders of fornix, going to form its anterior and posterior crura; 10, the lyra ; 11, 12, anterior crus of fornix and corpus albicans ; 13, trans- verse commissure cut short where it is bending backwards into the lenticular nucleus and optic thalamus ; 14, 15, 16, posterior crus of fornix, corpus fimbriatum, and uncus of gyrus uncinatus; 17, dentate convolution ; 18, 19, descending and posterior cornua of the lateral ventricle seen from below, the latter showing the hippocampus minor or calcar avis ; 20, under surface of corpus callosum, showing the forceps major and minor, and the tapetum; 21, 22, beak and rostrum of the corpus callosum ; 23, lenticular nucleus, externally to which are seen the claustrum, and the insular and opercular convolutions.