LONGrlSSIMUS DORSI — Is the inner & larger division of the erector spinse. Has two series of insertions in both the lumbar & the dorsal regions : Outer Series op Insertions - Posterior surfaces of transx^erse processes of the lumbar vertebrre, & nine or ten lower ribs internally to their angles. Inner Series of Insertions - Lower and outer part of mammillarj tubercles on back of superior articular processes of the lumbar vertebrae, & tips of the transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrns. Spinalis Dorsi - Spinous processes of the first two lumbar and last two dorsal vertebras. Spinous process of from four to eight of the middle & upper dorsal vertebrae. - Is intimatelv connected with the longissimus dorsi, of which it may be considered as an innermost portion ; tbe longissimus dorsi then having three series of insertions, middle, outer & inner (Cruveilhier). Transversalis Colli - (See Figs. 486, 487)-Tips of transverse processes of the four or five upper dorsal vertebrre. Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the five lower cervical vertebrje. Trachelo - Mastoid. - fS'e^' Fig. 489) - Transverse process of the five upper dorsal vertebra?, and articular processes of tbe three or four lower cervical. Posterior border of mastoid process beneath sterno-mastoid & splenius. All the above muscles are supplied by the external branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical, dorsal & lumbar nerves. COMPLEXUS - (See Fig. 490) - Transverse processes of the four or five upper dorsal and last cervical vertebrte ; articular processes of the three or four cervical vertebrae above. Innermost rough depression between the two curved lines of the occipital bone. - Has a tendinous intersection a little above its middle. Biventer Cervicis - (See Fig. 489) - Is but the inner part of the preceding muscle, - Transverse precesses of the two or three upper dorsal vertebrae. The muscle has often an additional origin from the spinous processes of the last cervical and first dorsal vertebra?. Occipital bone on inner side of preceding. Spinalis Colli. - See page 275. The complexus and biventer cervicis are supplied by the suboccipital and great occipital nerves, and by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical nerves.