I52n it then ascends cephalwards for a short distance between this nucleus and the postero- median fissure, beneath the inner part of the eminentia teres ; it then bends outwards in front of the upper end of the abducens nucleus, which it thus embraces ; finally it runs forwards and outwards through the lower part of the pons to the point of emergence of the nerve between the olivary & restiform bodies. The above description applies to the main root- bundle, but it is now believed that the fibres to the extra-orbital muscles controlling the eye-lids (orbicularis, corrugator, supercilii, & frontal portion of the occipito-frontalis) are derived from the nucleus of the third nerve, and that they reach the issuing fibres of the facial through the posterior longitudinal bundle.* The portio intermedia of Wrisberg would seem to have quite a different origin, and a different distribution. It would appear to have its origin in the upper part of the glosso-pharyngeal nucleus (Duval) ; and to run mainly in the course of the chorda tympani, - thus reaehing the mucous membrane of the front part of the tongue and supplying sensory fibres to it. Auditory Nerve {See Figs. 358a, g, Sf m).—The root-fibres of the auditory nerve are derived mainly from the principal, or dorsal, and from the accessory, or ventral, auditory nuclei; a few of the fibres appear, however, to have other and distant origins below referred to. The fibres of the anterior or mesial portion of the nerve (VIII. M.), which Fig. 358G.—TRANSVERSE SECTION, SHOWING NUCLEI AND ROOT-FIBRES OF AUDITORY NERVE. (Thane, in Quain's Anatomy.) The section is made at junction of bulb with pons. VIII. M., VIII. L., the two bundles of root- fibres, mesial and lateral; N. VIII. D., principal or dorsal nucleus ; G.L.R., ganglion of lateral root; A.V., ascending or bulbar root of fifth nerve. runs in front of the restiform body, arise mainly from the principal, or dorsal, auditory nucleus (N. VIII. D.), which forms the tuberculum acusticum near the middle of the floor of the fourth ventricle; some of its fibres are said, however, to descend from the cerebellum, and others to cross the raphe and to be derived from the opposite side of the pons. The fibres of the posterior or lateral portion (VIII. L.) are derived mainly from the * The posterior longitudinal bundle conveys root-fibres from the third nerve to the facial nerve, and root-fibres from the sixth nerve to the third nerve of the opposite side.