25f)f The distal part of the pulmonary artery and the ductus arteriosus are the modified left fifth arch, - the branches to the right and left lungs being tAvo lateral branches subsequently given off from the above trunk. The proximal portion of the pulmonary artery contained within the pericardium is the anterior half of the partitioned arterial bulb. The portion of the arch of the aorta contained within the pericardium is the posterior half of the partitioned arterial bulb. The portion comprised between the innomi- nate and left common carotid arteries is the modified lower part of the left ascending root. The portion comprised between the common carotid atiery and the origin of the left subclavian artery is the modified left fourth arch. The portion beyoiui the left subclavian artery is the modified lower part of the left descending root. Embryologically, the arch of the aorta consists, therefore, of four different parts. The innominate artery is the modified lower part of the right ascending root. The common carotid artery is the portion of the ascending root comj)rised between the third and fourth arches. The external carotid artery is the modified upper part of the ascending root, - that is to say, the part of the ascending root above the third arch. The internal carotid artery has long been known to present two portions, the first portion being the modified third arch, and the second portion being the modified upper part of the descending root, in Avhich the current of blood has been reversed. It is now stated that there is a third or terminal portion of the artery formed by a branch given off from the back part of the first aortic arch. The subclavian artery consists of three portions on the right side and two on the left. On the right side there is a first portion formed by the right fourth arch.* For the remainder of the right artery, and the whole of the left artery, the following develop- mental processes present:— The two primitive descending aortai give off a series of lateral or intersegmental branches, or, morphologically, and as Prof. Macalister calls them, " intercostal arteries." Of this series of " intercostal" arteries, one passes out on either side between the first rib and the costal process of the last cervical vertebra. This artery, as the other intercostal arteries, divides into a posterior or dorsal branch, and an anterior or proper intercostal branch. The posterior or dorsal branch becomes either the vertebral artery [Schafer], or the superior intercostal [Macalister], The anterior or proper intercostal branch becomes the portion of the subclavian artery external to the collateral named, - that is, practically, "'■ This first portion of the right subclavian artery is the homologue, on the right side of the body, of, on the left side, the third portion (embryologically) of the arch of the aorta : these vessels are developed from the corresponding aortic arches (fourth arches). One might be tempted to refer-, in confirmation of the homology alluded to, to the fact that both arteries are embraced by the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerves. This would be falling, however, into a gross morphological error. It is, morphologically, the two fifth arches, not the two fourth arches, that are embraced by the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerves. But the fifth right arch, becoming obliterated, is replaced on the right side, in reference to the relation referred to, by the fourth right arch, - that is to say, the right subclavian artery. In regard to the left side of the body, it will be noticed that the left recurrent laryngeal nerve embraces the arch of the aorta on the left side of the ductus arteriosus, - ergo, changes of position resulting from the retrocession of the heart into the thorax being allowed for, it embraces the distal portion of the left Ji/th arch, the ductus arteriosus. See further Section IV. (The recurrent course of the inferior laryngeal nerves is explained by the gradual retrocession of the heart and great vessels from the neck into the thorax )