48 THE VENiE AZYGOS. Collect the blood from the intercostal spaces, and are three in number, the major, minor, A 'eft superior. VENA AZYGOS MAJOR, or RIGHT AZYGOS - Commences in the ri£?ht as. cending lumbar vein, or sometimes in a branch from the inferior cava or the risrht r-^nal. Through aortic opening of diaphraorm on right side of thorncic duct, behind & on right side of aorta; - sometimes through right cru3. Along right side of spine in front of right intercostal arteries to 3rd dorsal vertebra. Arches forwards over root of right lung, and opens into superior vena cava just before it enfera pericardium. Receives*. Tributary Branches : - Nine or ten lower intercostal veins of right side^ vena azy^os minor, several small oesophageal, mediastinal dr* spinal veins, the right bronchial^ sometimes the right superior intercostal, find occasionally the left one. VENA AZYGOS MINOR, or LEFT LOWER AZYGOS — Arises in left ascend. ing lumbar vein, or sometimes in a branch from left renal. Perforates left cms of diaphragm (passes sometimes through aortic opening), and ascends along left side of spine in front of left inteicostal arteries to 6th or 7th dorsal vertebra. Crosses spine behind aorta & thoraoio duct, and opens into vena azygos major. Receives: Tributary Branches: - Four or five laiver intercostal veins of left side, several small mediastinal, oesophageal &* spinal veins. LEFT UPPER AZYGOS — Receives the blood from those left intercostal veins, usually two or three in number, which are situated between the intercostal veins that open into the left lower azygos and those that open into the left superior intpr. costal. It therefore varies greatly in size, diminishing as these latter veins in- crease, & vice versa ; often it does not exist at all, or one or more of the 5th, 6th, & 7th left intercosal veins may merely open directly into the vena azygos major. When thiere is a distinct left upper azygos, it opens either into the azygos major, cr into the left lower azygos. -v A few imperfect valves are found in the main azygus vein; disiiuco valves are found iu the intercostal veins.