348d The lateral sinus in continuation with the superior longitudinal sinus (usually the right one), is generally larger than the other. In the foetus the superior lo77gitudinal sinus is continuous with the nasal veins through the foramen coecum. In the adult it merely begins in the dura mater in front of the crista galli. The superior petrosal sinus, as it runs backwards and outwards from the cavernous sinus, arches over Meckel's space and the contained fifth nerve, grooves the upper border of the petrous bone, and opens into the confluens lateralis, or point of junction of the lateral and sigmoid sinuses and the mastoid vein. The inferior petrosal sinus pierces the dura mater in front of the ninth and tenth nerves, passes to the inner side of these, and opens into the internal jugular vein as it lies in the jugular fossa. Lateral and Sigmoid Sinuses, and Confluens Lateralis. The two sinuses above named form together what is described in adult anatomy under the name of ^''lateral sinus.'" The point of junction of the two sinuses is at the confluens lateralis, which lies opposite the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone where both the superior petrosal sinus and the mastoid vein open into the confluent. The mastoid veiii was originally a large channel connecting the conjoined sinuses to the true external jugular vein, which latter vein, and not the mternal jugular, formed in the embryo the continuation ui the lateral sinus into the soft parts of the neck. The sigmoid sinus, at first but a small channel of communication between the lateral sinus and foramen lacerum posterius, dilate<i as the mastoid vein diminished in size, and it is thus that it came to continue the lateral sinus into the internal jugular vein. The sigmoid sinus communicates near its termination with the corresponding occipital sinuses, or with the occipital sinus if there is but one, by means of a small niart^wal vein, which runs along the posterior border of the foramen magnum. This vein frequently forms a communication between the occipital sinus, or sinuses, and the veins of the spinal cord. In addition to the mastoid vein above referred to, a second emissary vein, the posterior condyloid vein, passing through the posterior condyloid foramen, connects the sigmoid sinus with the veins of the scalp. These emissary veins allow of a certain overflow of the blood of the sinuses in cases of over-distention. Spheno-parietal Sinus. This is a small channel running inwards under shelter of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, and which opens into the front part of the cavernous sinus. Externally it commences in one of the small meningeal veins. The tra7isvej'se, or basilar, sinus is rather a plexus of sinuses stretching somewhat variably over the basilar groove, than a well-defined and single transverse channel. The circular sinus, joining the cavernous sinuses of either side in front of and behind the pituitary body, is now divided by some anatomists into the anterior and posterior inter-cavernous sinuses. The paramesial sinuses or lacuncB laterales are irregular sinoidal recesses, greatly varying in size and number, which may be ranged, along the sides of the superior longitudinal sinus; on the one hand they receive some small meningeal or diploic veins,