348g Desceudiugto histological ground, the parallel becomes still more complete. The arachnoid is as much a large lymph-space as the peritoneum, and apparently not without its stomata similar to those which are found on the under surface of the diaphragm.* It is when the parietal layer of the arachnoid is ignored, that the " cavity of arachnoid " becomes tlie " subdural space." The Subarachnoid Space. The subarachnoid space is broken up by filaments and trabeculae forming an extremely delicate meshwork. Over the summit of the convolutions these are short, and the meshwork close; and the arachnoid and pia mater are difficult to separate. The reverse pertains between the convolutions. It is here that the larger arteries and veins ramify in the subaraclinoid space, their walls being bathed in the subarachnoid fluid, and supported by the trabeculas. Cisternse Subarachnoidales. These are local expansions of the general subarachnoidean space. There are two principal ones, which have long been known as posterior (cisterna magna) and anterior (cisterna basilaris), with which are connected the cisterna pontis, and other smaller expansions. The cisterna magna is formed by the arachnoid bridging over the interval between the hemispheres of the cerebellum and the back part of the medulla. It is the direct contiuation of the back part of the subarachnoidean space of the cord. The cisiet'na basilaris corresponds to the basilar groove, and to circle of Willis and the interpeduncular space of the base of the brain. Here the arachnoid, leaving the cerebral sxirface, passes across from one temporal lobe to the other, bridging over the hollow in this situation. Two lateral channels pass out from this, accompanying the middle cerebral arteries into the Sylvian fissures. Anterior prolongations similarly communicate with an expansion in front of the optic chiasma, and from this latter a small channel is said by some to be prolonged round the anterior cerebral arteries as they pass over the upper surface of the corpus callosum. In connection with the contention submitted, the above argument might even be quite incorrect for what the Author need care, - though competent friends have failed to detect the flaw, - and yet the Author would have to maintain exactly the same ground on the simple basis of Dissectional Anatomy, whose teachings are clear on the point raised. Dissectional Anatomy, the Author maintains, is to be looked upon as a science in itself, independent of, and altogether superior to, the fascinating niceties of the scientist. It is the form of anatomy which serves directly the objects of the medical man. It is the only form of anatomy which has a medical history at its back,-and a history of noble self-sacrifice, and of worthy service rendered. Alone, to the Author's mind, it constitutes Anatomy in the professional sense. The Author is far from unsupported in this matter. The best of the profession are with him :— " I regret to find that the teaching of anatomy is gradually getting more and more into the hands of professors who are anatomists but not surgeons, and that their tendency is to lay stress upon transcendental details rather than surgical relations."—(Christopher Heath. " We may be training a school of more or less scientific anatomists, but we are not insisting on such curriculum of study, and on such examimations, as will produce in the future well-grounded, thoroughly practical, and efficient medical men. . . . Those scientific anato- mists who concern themselves with other vertebrates, and who, apparently, treat of an ideal evolutionised human body of their own creation, have no experience of the requirements of those who are destined to medicalp7-nctice."—The Lancet. (The italics are the Author's.)