348dd depression. It corresponds to the posterior fontanelle, which, in the infant, is triangular with apex forwards, Asterion.—Junction of the lambdoid and squamous sutures; lies | of an inch behind and h an inch above the upper part of the posterior border of the mastoid process. Pterion.—The H-shaped junction of the frontal, parietal, sphenoid, and temporal; its anterior end lies 1^ to 1^ inches behind and a little above the external angular process; its posterior end lies about j an inch farther back. See further pp. 85 «& 86 of the Osteology. 2. —The Sutures. SagittaL—From the bregma to the lambda. Lambdoid.—From the lambda to the asterion, and then along the posterior border of the mastoid process. Coronal.—'From the bregma downwards and forwards, past the anterior end of the pterion, to just below and behind the external angular process. Squamous.—Marked by a curved line from the back part of the pterion to the asterion, the highest part of which line is about 2 inches above the zygoma. 3. —The Sinuses. Superior Lonyitudinal.—From glabella, or nasal eminence of the frontal bone, to external occipital protuberance. Lateral.—From external occipital protuberance to asterion, and then along the posterior border of the mastoid process. 4.—Lower Brain Levels. Occipital Lobe.—From external occipital protuberance to asterion. Temporal Lobe.—Line rising first slightly and then abruptly from the asterion to the pterion. Frontal Lobe.—From pterion along upper margin of superciliary ridge. 6.—Interlobar Fissures. Fissure of Sylvius (Reid's Method).—Draw a line from Ij i^iches behind the external angular process of the frontal to a point | of an inch below the most prominent point of the parietal eminence (Fig. 585). The first three-quarters of an inch will represent the stem of the fissure; the remainder will represent its posterior or horizontal limb. The bifurcation, or rather trifurcation, lies, therefore, 2 inches behind and a little above, say a quarter of an inch above, the external angular process. From this point the ascending limb passes upwards and forwards parallel to, and a little behind, the coronal suture.