228n (2) Superior maxillary nerve, simWarly divided at its origin and cut short anteriorly ; 7&8, its deep posterior and its anterior dental branches, joining in a plexus in the outer wall of the antrum of Highmore, from which the teeth of the upper jaw are supplied ; (3) Meckel's ganglion, with the Vidian nerve fully exposed in the Vidian canal, the latter nerve showing both its connection with the carotid plexus and with the large superficial and large deep petrosal branches of the facial and glosso-pharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve). (See also Fig. 449b.) (9) Otic ganglion exposed from without by the removal of the upper part of the inferior maxillary nerve. There are seen reaching the posterior aspect of the ganglion the conjoined small superficial petrosal nerve of the facial, and the small deep petrosal of the glosso-pharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve.) (See also Fig. 449e.) The communication of the ganglion with the chorda tympani is shown. (20) Glosso-pharyngeal nerve and its petrous ganglion or ganglion of Andersh, with Jacobson's nerve traced up to the tympanum, the latter, showing its branches of distribution to the fenestras, rotunda, & ovalis, and its branches of communic^ition with the carotid plexus and with the large superficial petrosal and small superficial petrosal branches of the facial. (See page 228h and figure above referred to. (10) Lingual or gustatory nerve, receiving the chorda tympani, 11, which has been divided superiorly in the removal of the outer wall of the tympanum ; 13, its anastomosis with the hypoglossal; (12) submaxillary ganglion, with its communications and branches of distribution ; 14, sublingual ganglion sometimes present; (16) inferior dental nerve, giving off the nerve to the mylo-hj^oid ; 18 & 19, mental and incisor branches of the inferior dental, the former cut short. (22) Hypoglossal nerve. c, inner wall of the tympanum, showing the fenestras, rotunda, & ovalis; f, raylo-hyoid muscle detached from the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw. Fig. 399,—the submaxillary trianglk. (Ellis.) 1, 2, gustatory nerve with the submaxillary ganglion ; 3, Wharton's duct ; 4, 6, 7, glosso- pharyngeal, hypoglossal, and superior laryngeal nerves. A, B, C, D, F, H, J, genio-hyo-glossus, genio- hyoid, hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, posterior belly of digastric. The figure shows the common, internal, and external carotid arteries, with the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, and occipital branches of the latter, and the internal jugular vein.