256w EXPLANATION OF FIGIJEES NOT FULLY EXPLAINED IN THE TEXT. (THORAX.) FlQ. 460.—THE RIGHT AND LEFT PHRENIC NERVES. (Hirschfeld.) (1, 1, 1) The phrenic nerves, showing their origin from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves (from the third through the communicans cervicis). The nerve is seen passing down in front of the scalenus anticus, subclavian artery, and root of the lung, lying external, on the right side, to the right innominate vein & superior vena cava, and then running by the side of the pericardium, covered by the pleura, to the diaphragm. Figs. 376 & 478.—distribution of the right pneumogastric, sympathetic, and other nerves. (Hirschfeld.) 1, eyeball, with part of sclerotic coat removed, showing the ciliary nerves and ciliary muscle ; 2, branch of third nerve to inferior oblique, with short or motor root of lenticular ganglion; 3, 3, 3, the three primary divisions of the fifth nerve, with their connections with the following ganglia, namely, 4, ophthalmic, 5, spheno-palatine, 6, otic, 7, submaxillary; 9, 6th nerve; 10, facial nerve, with the motor roots to the spheno-palatine and otic ganglia; (11) glosso-pharyngeal nerve; 12, pneumogastric nerve; (14) spinal accessory nerve ; (15) proximal portion of divided hypoglossal nerve : its distal portion is seen on the anterior surface of the hyoglossus muscle ; 16, loop between the two first cervical nerves ; 17, middle primary cord of brachial plexus ; 18, an intercostal nerve ; (21) superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic : this is seen to give off an ascending branch running up on the internal carotid artery, and dividing to form the carotid and cavernous plexuses; 22, communication with Jacobson's nerve ; 23, sympathetic root of Meckel's ganglion ; 25, sympathetic root of the lenticular ganglion ; 27, junction with two first cervical nerves; (28) inferior ganglion of pneumogastric, or ganglion of the trunk; (29) superior laryngeal nerve ; 30, its external branch ; 31, 38, 39, superior, middle, and inferior cardiac nerves; (32, 33, 37, 38) cord of sympathetic, with the middle and inferior cervical ganglia; (35) inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve ; 42, superficial cardiac plexus and ganglion of Wrisberg ; 43, 44, posterior and anterior coronary plexuses; 45, first of the chain of thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, with their communications, and the origins of the greater and lesser splanchnic nerves. A, right ventricle; B, arch of aorta, slightly pulled forward ; C, D, E, F, G, innominate, subclavian (divided), inferior thyroid, and common and internal carotid arteries, with their sympathetic plexuses; L, trunk of the pulmonary artery : the right branch, divided, is seen emerging from beneath the aortic arch and passing behind the superior vena cava, M ; O, the two pulmonary veins of the right side ; a, b, c, d, lachrymal, sublingual, and submaxillary glands, and lateral lobe of the thyroid; e, trachea, with the right bronchus divided ; /, cesophagus and ojsophageal plexus. Figs. 377 & 479.—distribution of the left pneumogastric, sympathetic, and other nerves. (Hirschfeld.) (1) Superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; 2, its ascending branch to the internal carotid artery going to form the carotid and cavernous plexuses ; 3, communication with Jacobson's nerve ; 4, 5, 6, sympathetic roots of Meckel's and the lenticular ganglia ; 8, anastomosis with the two first cervical nerves; 9, 10, pharyngeal plexus ; 11, superior cardiac nerve ; 12, 13, cervical cord and middle cervical ganglia ; 14, 15, 16, anastomoses of the latter with the cervical and recurrent laryngeal nerves, and the pharyngeal plexus; 17, middle cardiac nerve; (18, 20, 21) inferior cervical ganglion, with filaments accompanying the vertebral and subclavian arteries ; 22, inferior cardiac nerve ; 23, superficial cardiac plexus, with ganglion of Wrisberg ; 24, 25, anterior and posterior cardiac plexuses ; (26) pneumo- gastric nerve; (27, 27) recurrent laryngeal nerve; (28, 29, 30) ophthalmic, spheno-palatine, and otic ganglia. A, B, C, right ventricle, trunk of pulmonary artery, its right and left branches, and the ductus arteriosus ; D, E, F, G, H, innominate, left common carotid, and external and internal carotid, and subclavian arteries ; 1, superior vena oava.