288 INNER SURFACE of the CEREBRUM Presents for examination: Marginal Convolution Convolution of the Corpus Callosum, separated from each other by the Calloso-marginal Fissure (16); Quadrate or Precuneate Occipital or Cuneate Lobules, separated from each other by the Internal Parieto-occipital Fissure (P.O;), and of which the latter is separated by the Calcarine Fissure (17) from the internal occipito-temporal convolution ; Dentate Convolution (18), which is bounded below by the Dentate or Hippocampal Fissure (19). Occipito-temporal Convolutions, two in number, internal & external, separated from the foregoing by the above-mentioned calcarine and dentate fissures, and from each other by the Collateral Fissure (20). Marginal Convolution - Forms the lateral boundary of the anterior half of the longitudinal fissure. Beginning at the anterior perforated space, it first passes forwards as far as the apex of the frontal lobe, or anterior pole, and then curves upwards & backwards along the upper margin of the hemisphere to a little behind the fissure of Rolando (JR). Convolution of the Corpus Callosum, Callosal G-yrus, G. Pornieatus, or G. Cingull - Begins anteriorly with the foregoing, and then winds backwards along the convex surface of the corpus callosum. from which it is separated by the so-called ventricle of the corpus callosum or callosal fissure. Posteriorly it joins above with the quadrate lobule, and then, becoming somewhat constricted (isthmus), it is reflected downwards & forwards round the splenium and continued into the hippocampal gyrus or gyrus uncinatus. Calloso-marginal Fissure - (16) - First separates the two foregoing convolutions, and then ascends to tbe upper margin of the hemisphere a little behind the upper extremity of the fissure of Rolando (/?.), separating the marginal convolution from the quadrate lobule. Quadrate or Precuneate Lobule - Quadrilateral. Bounded above, ia front, & behind respectively by the margin of the hemisphere, and by the calloso-marginal (16j & internal parieto- occipital fissures (P. 0.). Occipital or Cuneate Lobule - Triangular. Bounded behind, in front, & below respectively by the margin of the hemisphere and by the internal parieto-occipital fissure (P-0.) & the calcarine fissure (17). Internal Parieto-occipital Fissure - (P-0.) - Separates the tAvo foregoing lobules. It is continuous superiorly with the external parieto-occipital fissure ; inferiorly it joins with the calcarine fissure (17). Calcarine Fissure - (17) - Passes forwards from the apex of the occipital lobe to the isthmus of the gyrus fornicatus, and its point of junction with the gyrus uncinatus. It separates the occipital lobule from the internal occipito-temporal convolution, and joins anteriorly with the internal parieto-occipital fissure (P.O.). It corresponds in its anterior half to the hippocampus minor, or calcar avis, in the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. Dentate Convolution (18) - Is a narrow serrated band of grey matter which lies beneath the corpus fimbriatum. It blends anteriorly with the uncus. Dentate or Hippocampal Fissure - (19) - Separates the dentate convolution from the hippocampal gyrus or g3'rus uncinatus, and corresponds to the hippocampus major. Internal Occipito-temporal Convolution, Hippocampal Gyrus, or G. Uncinatus- Comprised between the dentate and calcarine fissures, above, and the collateral fissure (20), below, and extends along nearly the whole length of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. It is constricted towards its middle (isthmus), where it is joined by the gyrus fornicatus, and enlarged in front & behind ; anteriorly it presents a small hooked prolongation, the uncus, which curves upwards & backwards. Collateral Fissure - (20) - Extends along nearly the whole length of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, separating the hippocampal gyrus from the external occipito-temporal convolution. It corresponds towards its middle to the eminentia collateralis* External Occipito-temporal Convolution - Is separated by the occipito-temporal fissure from the inferior temporal convolution of the outer surface of the hemisphere. This convolil- tion, as well as the foregoing, might well be described as lying on the under Or tentorial surface of the hemisphef