256e latter, the third, the fourth, and the fifth, are alone of practical significance to the anatomist. It is the evolution of these three arches only that is at all clearly made out. Very conflicting views still prevail with reference to the evolution of the two other, or two first arches, though definite statements, as will be seen below, are now put forward as to their transformations. ■ With reference to its subsequent evolution, the ascending root may be divided into two portions, - an upper portion (above the fourth arch), and a lower portion (below the fourth arch), - the latter evolving differently on the two sides of the neck, and the former, on the contrary, evolving similarly on both sides. Upper portion of the Ascending Root.—The lower part of this, - that between the third and fourth arches, - becomes the common carotid artery ; the upper part, - that above the third arch, - becomes the external carotid. The Lozver portion of the Ascendijtg Root, - that below the fourth arch, - forms, on the right side, the innominate artery, and, on the left side, where it soon becomes much larger, the portion of the arch of the aorta that is comprised between the innominate and left common carotid arteries.^ The left foiitih arch forms the portion of the arch of the aorta beyond the origin of the left common carotid. The right fourth arch forms a portion of the subclavian artery [as far as the origin of the vertebral (Quain), or of the superior intercostal (Macalister)]. The left fifth arch forms the distal part of the pulmonary arteryf and the ductus arteriosus, - two lateral branches being given off to the lungs. The right fifth arch disappears. The third arch forms on both sides the first part of the internal carotid artery. The Descending Root atrophies, on the left side, between the third and fourth arches, and, on the right side, both between the third and fourth arches, and below the fourth arch. The upper part of the descending root, - that is, the part between the second and third, and between the first and second arches, - becomes the upper part of the internal carotid artery. 'Yh.e posterior part of the two first arches atrophies. There are probably developed from the anterior part of the first arch the internal maxillary and temporal arteries, and from the anterior part of the second arch the lingual and ascending pharyngeal arteries, and also, perhaps, the occipital and the posterior auricular arteries. III. Normal Adult Structures. The above statements in reference to the embryonic state may noAV be put conversely, and made referable to the adult condition. * It will be seen, and the point will be made plainer further on, that the portion of the arch of the aorta comprised between the iiinominate artery and the left coini/ton catotid'is the homologiie, on the left side of the body, of the i^inoininate arte7y on the right side. The portion of the arch of the aorta comprised between the commencement of the aorta and the origin of the innominate artery, - that is to say, the portion of the completely developed normal artery contained in the pericardium, - resulting-, as has already been stated, from the partitioning of the aortio bulb, will be seen to be the common trunk, which bifurcates into the two originally equally important homologous arteries above referred to. t The portion not contained in the pericardium.