179 FACIAL NERVE. Arises from upper part of medulla ohlongaia in groove between oUvaiy d-= resiiform bodies. Through internal auditory meatus with portio mollis, lying in a groove upon the latter and i portio imtermedia of Wrisberg lying between the two. Through aqueductus Fallopii, in which runs outwards, backwards, downwards: C>«/war«j - between cochlea and vestibule to hiatus Fallopii, where presents geniculate ganglion or intumescontia gangliformis. Backwards - in inner wall of tympanum above fenestra ovalis. Dowmvards - to stylo-mastoid foramen. Forwards in substance of parotid gland crossing external carotid artery, and divides behind j ramns of jaw into temporo-facial & cervico-facial branches, forming pes anserinua. I Its branches may be divided into branches of communication & branches of distribution. * BRANCHES OF COMMUNICATION -Are: In Meatus Auditorius Internus: , One or two filaments to Auditory N. In Aqueductus Falloppii: Large Petrosal N.-to Meckel's ganglion, and snpnlies levator Mlati^azygosnvnlce ; Small Petrosal N. - to Otic ganglion, and supplies tensor palati <V tensor tympani ; . ■-. Ext. Petrosal N. - to sympathetic on middle meningeal artery. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: Branches to: Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric & Carotid Plexus - Arise from posterior auricular nerve & from nerves to stylo-hyoid & posterior belly of digastric. - Auriculo-temporal - From temporo-facial branch. Great Auriculae - From posterior auricular & cervico-facial branches. On the Face: The terminal filaments join with the three divisions of the Fifth N. ^ BRANCHES OF DISTRIBUTION - Are: In Aqueductus Fallopii: TYMPANIC BR. - To stapedius laxator tympani; CHOUDA TYMPANI - Enters tymp. between membr. tympani & base of pyramid; Between handle of malleus & long process of incus. , Through canal of Huguier on inner side of Glaserian fissure; I Joins gustatory nerve between the two pterygoid muscles; i To submaxillary ganglion & lingualis superior. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: POST. AURICULAR N. - Over mastoid process to integument and retrahens aurem & posterior belly of occipito-frontalis, and anastomoses with auricu- laris magnus & posterior auricular branch of pneumogastric. BRS. TO STYLO-HYOID & POST. BELLY of DIGASTRIC - Arise in common, and join, the former with carotid plexus, the latter with glosso-pharyngeal. On the Face: TEMPORO-FACIAL BR. - The larger. Anaptomoses with auriculo-temporal, and divides into tetjiporal, malar ^ infraorbital branches. CERVICO-FACIAL - The smaller. Anastomoses with great auricular, and divides. ; into buccal, sttpram axillary &^ inframaxillary branches ■ ' .These terminal branches of the facial nerve supply all the muscles of expression o*" the face & the platysma, and anastomose with the opbthainiic, superior & inferior maxillary nerves and with the «re&t auricular