228u Sterno-Mastoid Muscle.—Stands out in bold relief when tlie face is turned towards the opposite side. When undissected, it curves forwards as far as the angle of the jaw, and covers nearly the whole of the common, external, and internal carotid arteries. It is crossed by the external jugular vein, which passes down from the angle of the jaw to near the middle of the clavicle. The anterior jugular vein lies some way in front of its anterior border. Commoil Carotid Artery,—Extends from behind the sterno- clavicular articulation to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, running along a line drawn from the articulation to a point midway between the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process. It is deep at its origin, and relatively superficial at its termination. The internal jugular vein lies on its outer side ; the pneumo-gastric nerve lies between and behind the two vessels ; the cord of the sympathetic lies behind the sheath of the artery; the descendens hypoglossi crosses the sheath anteriorly. The artery can best be compressed against the prominent anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, called the carotid tubercle, or tubercle of Chassaignac. The artery is crossed at about the level of the cricoid cartilage by the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. The Stylo-Hyoid and Posterior Belly of the Digastric.— Eun obliquely downwards and forwards from the mastoid process to the hyoid bone. Beneath them passes the whole of the neuro-vascular bundle of the upper part of the neck The hypoglossal nerve runs along their lower edge, and marks the point where the external carotid artery is usually tied. Above and in front of these muscles lies the superficial portion of the submaxillary gland. Beneath the submaxillary gland, in the angle between the two bellies of the digastric, is the anterior part of the hypoglossal nerve, just before it disappears beneath the mylo-hyoid. The nerve and the two bellies of the muscle bound a small triangular space (lingual triangle), of which the floor is formed by the hyo-glossus. The li7igual artery crosses this space beneath the hyo-glossus muscle.