152v supporting it on the slenderest substructure of practical knowledge which will just do to prop it up for a time, - the " crammer " coming in here to cleverly bind together the " scaffolding of words " till the examination is passed, - when the whole thing is taken down and cleared away, like the bunting of holiday rejoicings. Rejoicings, if the student has " passed," that he will have nothing more to do with anatomy & physiology! Pity on the poor patients! But, if the student has not passed, the " house of cards" is again to be set up from foundations (?) to roof, again, perhaps, to be knocked down and set up again, knocked down and set up again. The thing is in the spirit of the child with his nursery bricks. And as the child grows impatient, and "throws it up," if, more than once or twice, someone, just entering, shakes the room and causes the " tower of Babel'' to fall, so the candidate, - the young man at the portals of a profession, passing through which should ennoble a life-time,-gives up all higher objects, and aims at standards lower and lower, at merely " qualifying "... qualifying for what ? And yet there are numbers, ever-increasing numbers, who have to retire, beaten back, disheartened, with squandered means and wasted youth, irreparable failures in the common struggle for life. The Author's contention is that it is the practical work that pays, even from the low point of view of passing examinations. To begin with, the man who has done his work practically is not to be bowled over through " nervousness." Taking it that the rearing of the " scaffolding of words" is, through the present glut of details, an unavoidable evil, the rearing of the same on a basis of fact leads at least to this, that failure at the examination means but the knocking off of the crest of the superstructure, not the razing of the whole thing to the ground. It is he may be, he cannot mistake the internal jugular vein on the outer side of the common carotid artery, or the pneumogastric nerve between and behind the two vessels; the nerve entering obliquely the upper pai-t of the sterno-mastoid he must recognise as the spinal accessory ; the one running across the several vessels below the small oblique muscle at the upper part (the digastric) he must know to be the hypoglossal, &c., &c. The mere nodding acquaintance here implied by correct answers, proves nothing in regard to true knowledge. Only contrast with the above the really practical test involved in making a man try his hand at dissecting. Only gauge the unasked questions which his handling of the knife immediately gives reply to. Is he really acquainted with the thin veil which the platysma throws over the whole region ? You will see this at once by his preserving it entirely, or partly, through more or less careful removal of the skin, cr his sweeping it away altogether, unnoticed and unthought of. Is he familiar with the nerves which lie beneath the platysma, and their whereabouts ? You will know this directly by his careful raising, or otherM'ise, of the middle part of the external jugular vein (in search for the superficial cervical nerve), or cleaning of the upper part (in search for the great auricular nerve). Does he know about the sterno-mastoid artery, about the descendens noni nerve ? You can judge of this unerringly by the care, or otherwise, bestowed on the first exposing of the large vascular trunks. Is he familiar with the windings of the superior thyroid artery ? Has he in mind its superior laryngeal branch, and its accompanying superior laryngeal nerve? Watch here as to whether he mainly cuts, or tears. The inferior thyroid artery and recurrent laryngeal nerve, the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, the trunk of the vertebral artery, &c., &c., are they to him realities or mere words ? This will be manifest in the later stages of the knife and forceps test without two words being exchanged. Here crammer and crammed are nonplussed. As a result, one has, as examinees, or will have when the better methods of the past are once more resorted to, not the paper anatomists, not the talkers, but the future surgeons in the true sense of the term.