348x foramina of Monro taken emhryologicc. In describing the ventricular cavities of the brain, one must either take the epithelium into consideration all round, or ignore it all round. One must admit that the roof of the 3rd ventricle is formed by the velum inter- positum and the fornix, and that the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses penetrate into the lateral and 3rd ventricles, as hitherto stated; or, if this is rejected, one must admit that the choroid plexuses do not pass through the foramina of Monro, as defined de novo in harmony with emhryological views. The anlerior commissure appears as a transverse band between the anterior crura of the fornix, where it presents a cylindrical surface turned towards the 3rd ventricle. It passes outwards on each side below the lenticular nucleus, and, inclining backwards and assuming a twisted appearance, ends in the temporal lobe. Medulla Oblongata.—Notes to p. 318. (*) This is of course incorrect from the structural point of view, since the medulla contains, not only the elements of the cord, re-arranged, but also additional structures, and has further lost some of the parts which the cord contained. (t) The term " anterior pyramid" is used here in its obvious and original sense. In connection with questions of structure, the term is now often used in two other senses, both at variance with the above, namely, on the one hand, as designating the decussating fibres only, and, on the other hand, as comprising the whole of the " anterior area '' of the medulla (more correctly, of the central or tripartite portion of the medulla, vide p. 348ii) comprised between the anterior median fissure and the roots of the hypoglossal nerve, - that is, in senses convenient for the purposes of structural descriptions, but which do not harmonise with the external or surface anatomy of the part. (§) An entirely new meaning has also been given of late to the term "arciform fibres." What are described in the Tablet are the obvious arched fibres, which any dissector can see. The term is now made to embrace all that most complicated system of transverse fibres of the medulla and pons, whether arched or not, which enter into the riticular formation, and which the dissector certainly cannot see. ( Vide Arciform Fibres and Olivary Nucleus, p. 348jj.) (^) The term " restiform body " is now applied, in structural Anatomy, to the upper part only of the restiform body of dissectional Anatomy, the reason being that the fibres of the fasciculi cuneatns & gracilis appear to end in the corresponding nuclei, and that the upper part of the restiform body of the dissectional anatomist appears to be formed by the newly described arciform fibres (see above), and by other fibres derived from the nuclei above mentioned. The above are but instances of ihe present tendency to allows questions of minute structure to preponderate over distinct outward appearances. It is submitted that, when outward appearances and internal configuration do not agree, they should be taken separately, and independently of each other, as has been attempted in this Edition of the Tablets, rather than forced into apparent agreement by an alteration of the meaning- of old and well-recognised terms.