348f the above description - though iu compauy with respected leaders - was a concession to the " advanced " School, which he has ever since regretted. Words must lose their meaning before the said description can be at all seriously impugned from the disseetional point of view * The reasons the scientists have given for opposing the once universally accepted description are as follows : (1), that it is impossible - the Author reads it, not easy - to make out a distinct layer of connective tissue - distinct, that is, from the dura mater - supporting the external or parietal layer of endothelial cells; and (2), that the arachnoid has an origin different from that of the peritoneum, pleura, &c. But what tissue distinctly separable from the lung tissue intervenes between the lung and the pulmonary pleura ? And does the point, after all, affect the question 'i If a simple layer of epithelium is good enough to make up the roof of the third ventricle, why not, even if unsupported, to form the outer wall of a serous sac ? As to the second reason, it is brashed away by the very facts set forth by Prof. Macalister, who is both philosophical and perfectly candid in the matter. Prof. Macalister explains admirably, as indeed is quite evident, how : (]), between parts that move upon each other, connective tissue becomes laminated, with flattened cells on its surface ; and, where there is much gliding, condensed and membranous, and overlaid with a continuous layer of endothelial cells; (2), that when, at an early period, the mesoblast (ventral mesoblast) splits into the splanchnopleure and somatopleure bounding the coelom, the tissue lining this cavity becomes transformed, as above, into a serous membrane, which is subsequently segmented - though the point has nothing to do with the argument - into pleura, pericardium, peritoneum, and tunica vaginalis. Now exactly the same changes take place in connection with the dorsal meso- blast. It is this dorsal mesoblast which, rising up between the layers of the dorsal epiblast, Forms the membranes of the brain and cord. This dorsal mesoblast must therefore split up just as does the ventral mesoblast. Where, then, is the difference, even embryo- logically, between the ventral and the dorsal gliding arrangements ? If the splitting of the ventral mesoblast gives rise to a serous membrane, why refuse the name to the quite similar structure resulting from the splitting of the dorsal mesoblast? t The arachnoid was described as a serous membrane by every one of our disseetional anatomists -Wilson, Gray, Ellis, Heath, and Holden. In the view of Hirschfeld, undoubtedly the greatest disseetional authority on the nervous system that we have known, there is not a shadow of a doubt in regard to the matter, or even a shadow of a suspicion that any doubt could arise. But let the dissector just remove the skull-cap, and look, and see for himself : Such is the way to learn human Anatomy. In lieu of the suppressed - now indeed condemned - term, " serous membrane," one now finds in books such evasive descriptions as "an intermediate structure," " a thin membrane," "a delicate mem- brane," " a fibrous membrane " - which latterly is certainly incorrect - or the truism, " a membrane which is seen when the brain is removed (?) from its cavity." When were membranes of any kind classified into thick and thin, stout and delicate, or into "intermediate" and whatever the converse of that term may be or defined as such as may be seen when such and such a structure has been removed ? t We are everywhere witnessing, now-a-days, on the one hand, the exaltation of imaginary dis- tinctions, and, on the other hand, the whittling down of real differences till distinctions important to the surgeon are lost sight of: "A layer of flattened endothelial cells covers the inner surface " of the dura mater, " and also its outer surjace between the places of adherence to the bones and sutures" And where the two layers of the dura mater split (at the foramen magnum) to form, on the one hand, the dura mater of the cord, and on the other, the periosteum of the spinal canal, " a s'unilar layer oj cells covers both surfaces " of the former. Here is a distinct assimilation of the sub- and epi-dural spaces. Again :— Both surfaces of the inner or entima layer of the pia miter are bounded by a " ly7nph space" And on the nerves leaving the brain and cord, they receive " lymph-sheaths from the dura mater, the pia mater, and the aiachnoid. which may be injected from the subdural and arachnoid spaces as fur as the limbs." The Author has no he sitation in saying that this is absolutely untrue in naked-eye anatomy. It is this basing anatomy (so-called) on " transcendental" generalisations that is leading to the present sacrifice of most important naked-eye truth. It is certainly not the kind of anatomy wanted by medical men that has led to the temporary abandonment of the description of the arachnoid as a serous membrane.