296 THE LATERAL VENTRICLES Consist of a central cavity or body, and three prolongations or cornua. Central Cavity or Body - Presents: Roof - Formed by under surface of corpus callosum Inner Wall - Formed by the septum lucidum. The septum liicidum is a thin triangular lamina, narrow behind, and broad in front. Its narrow posterior prolongation passes backwards into the interval between the body of the ' fornix and the corpus callosum. Its broader anterior portion corresponds posteriorly to the anterior crura of the fornix, and is attached in front to the genu of the corpus callosum, and below to the rostrum. The septum lucidum consists of two thin transparent laminte lying close to each other, but separated in the greater part of their extent by a slit-like interval, the so-called 6th ventricle. The laminae are the approximated and partly fused remnants of the hemisphere walls, and the so-called ventricle is a remnant of the space between the two hemispheres, unconnected, of coarse, with the proper ventricular cavities of the brain. Each lamina presents a rudimentary layer of grey matter towards the 5th ventricle, a middle layer of white fibres, and, towards the lateral ventricle, a layer of ependyma and epithelium. Floor - Formed from before backwards by caudate nucleus of corpus striatv7n, tcenia semicircular is, opHc thalamus, choroid plexus^ corpus Jivihriatum, & fornix. Anterior Cornu - Passes downwards & outwards round anterior extremity of corpus striatum. Posterior Cornn - Curves backwards & outwards, and then backwards & inwards in substance of occipital lobe. On inner part of its floor is the hippocampus minor or calcar avis, a longitudinal eminence corresponding to the front part of the calcarine fi><sure, and internally to which is the bulb of the cornu formed by the projection of the forceps major.. Middle or Descending Cornu - Curves backwards, outwards & downwards round optic thalamus, and then forwards & inwards to near anterior extremity of the temporal lobe, i Its floor presents the hippocampus major, pes hippocampi, eminentia co/latercdis, corpv fimbriatum, & choroid plexus. The transverse Jissure may be added in dissectional, opposed to interpretatioual. Anatomy.