2286' THE LARYNX-2nd Tablet. LIGAMENTS - An EXTRINSIC - Th ree; connect larynx to hyoicl bone. - They are* Thyro-Hyoid Membrane - Broad fibro.eiastic membrane front Upper border of thyroid cartilage to Upper border of^ hyoid bone, being separated from posterior surface of hyoid bone by a little loose cellular tissue in which a bursa is usually found. It is thickest towards middle and perforated laterally by superior laryn. geal vessels & nerves. Behind it are the epiglottis & the mucous mem- brane of the base of the tongue, with a considerable amount of adipose tissue & some mucous glands. Lateral Thyro-Hyoid Ligaments-Rounded fibro.eiastic cords from Superior cornua of thyroid cartilage to Extremities of greater cornua of hyoid bone. - These ligaments often contain a small cartilaginous nodule, the cartilage triticea, INTRINSIC —Connect cartilages of larynx as follows: On the one hand the cricoid to the thyroid & arytsenoid, on the other the epiglottis to the thyroid. - They are: Crico-Thyroid Membrane - Yellow elastic lamina divided into: Central Portion - Thick, triangular, broadest below; connects Contiguous margins of cricoid 6^ thyroid. Lateral Portions - Thinner; extend from Upper border of cricoid cartilage as far back as crico-thyroid arthrodia to Loiver border of inferior or true vocal cord, uniting firmly with the latter, especially in front. - The central portion is concealed by crico-thyroid muscles, except in mesial line, and is crossed by crico-thyroid branches of superior thyroid arteries; the lateral portions are covei-ed by the thyro- & lateral crico-arytsenoid muscles, and are lined internally by mucous membrane of larynx. Crico-Thyroid Capsules - Thin, strongest behind ; enclose the arthrodial articulations between cricoid & inferior cornua of thyroid, and are lined internally with synovial membrane. Posterior Crico-Arytsenoid Ligament - Short but strong band from Back of cricoid cartilage to Back of base of arytcBnoid. Crico-Arytsenoid Capsules - Thin; surround the arthrodial articulations between upper border of cricoid cartilage & bases of the arytsenoid, and are lined internally with synovial membrane. Thyro-Epiglottic Ligament - Long & slender band connecting Apex of epiglottis to Upper part of receding angle of thyroid. Hyo-Epiglottic Ligament - Somewhat indistinct; extends amidst a con- siderable amount of adipose tissue from Anterior surface of epiglottis to Upper border of hyoid bone. To the foregoing ligaments must be added the superior & inferior thyro-arytsenoid described with the vocal cords, and the somewhat indistinct ubro-cartilaginous capsules frequently found^ between the arytsenoid cartilages & the cornicula larjngia.