348qq DEVELOPMENT OP THE BRAIN". There are first the three original cerebral vesicles, - the fore-brain, the mid-brain, and the hind-brain, - and then, through the further division of the first and third of these, the five vesicles below named. The hind-brain, which is elongated and tapering and continued into the spinal cord, is soon pinched off into the vesicle of the medulla, or metencephalon, posteriorly, and the vesicle of the cerebellum, or epencepkalon, anteriorly. It is between these that the pontal flexure appears later on. The mid-brain, or mesencephalon^ increases in size less rapidly than the two others, and does not divide. While at first the largest of the three cerebral vesicles, it soon becomes the smallest of all. The fore-brain divides as does the hind-brain. It first widens out posteriorly through the lateral projection of the two optic vesicles, and is then pinched off into the thalamencephalon with the now constricted stalks of the optic nerves, posteriorly, and the prosencephalon, or vesicle of the hemispheres, anteriorly. There are now five vesicles: from behind forwards, the metencephalo7i and the epencephalon making up the hind-brain ; the undivided mid-brain vesicle, or mesen- cephalon; and the thalamencephalon and ^^prosencephalon making up the fore-brain. The vesicle of the hemispheres, or prosencephalon, is distinguished by extremely rapid growth, mainly in the backward direction ; and it soon surpasses all the others in size, when it becomes parted from above into right and left halves by the future falx cerebri, a connective tissue formation derived from the membranous cranium. The three cerebral flexures now appear, two curved forwards, with an inter- mediate one curved backwards. Fig. 600.—diagram showing the cerebral flexures. (After Hertwig-.) The fore-brain as a Avhole sinks downwards round the anterior extremity of the chorda dorsalis,* forming an acute angle with the mid-brain; this bend is the cephalic * The chorda dorsalis extends forwards underneath the primitive tube of nervous substance as far as the interval between the fore-brain and the mid-brain.