228/ THE LARYNX—5th Tablet. INTERIOR of the LARYNX. Is divided in two by the glottis or rima glottidia. GLOTTIS or RIMA GLOTTIDIS — Antero-posterior opening comprised be. tween the inferior or true vocal cords in its anterior three-fourths, and between the arytsenoid cartilages in its posterior fourth. In tranquil breathing it is triangular with base backwards. It is lozenge, shaped when fully dilated, as in violent inspirations. It is reduced to a narrow slit when sound is emitted; the vocal cords then lying parellel to each other, and their degree of approximation & tension increasing with the height of the sound produced. In the adulc male it is nearly an inch long, and may be dilated to nearly half an inch. In the female, and in the male before puberty, its dimensions are about one-third less. Inferior or True Vocal Cords - Extend from near middle of receding angle of thyroid cartilage below the false vocal cords to anterior or internal angle of the base of the arytsenoid cartilages. They consist of a strong band of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, the inferior thyro-aryfcBuoid ligament^ which baud is continuous inferiorly with the lateral portion of the crico- thyroid membrane, is covered internally by a very thin & adherent layer of mucous membrane, and is strengthened oxternally by the thyro- arytsenoid muscle. PART ABOVE the GLOTTIS — is broad & triangular, & presents for exami- nation : - Superior Aperture of the Larynx - Triangular, obliquely inclined downwards & backwards, and bounded in front by the epiglottis, & laterally by the arytseno-epiglottidean folds. Superior or False Vocal Cords - Extend from near middle of receding angle of thyroid cartilage above the true vocal cords to the anterior surface of the arytsenoid cartilages; they consist of a fold of raucous membrane con- taining a thin band of yellow elastic fibrous tissue, the superior thyro- aryicenoid ligametit, from which a delicate expansion extends over the sacculus laryngis. They bound superiorly the openings of the Ventricle of the Larynx - Deep oblong saccular depression comprised between the superior &, inferior vocal cords, and corresponding externally to the thyro-arytsenoid muscle. It is continued superiorly & in front by a nar- row opening into the Sacculus Lauyngis or Lakyngeal Pouch - A prolongation of the foregoing, which passes upwards & forwards between the superior vocal cord & the thyroid cartilage, and is covered externally by the thyro- epiglottideus & by the thin upper fasciculus of the thyro-arytaenoid, and internally by the arytseno-epiglottideus inferior or compressor sacculi laryngis. The mucous lining of the pouch is supported by an expansion from the superior vocal cord, and presents the openings of from 60 to 70 mucous glands, whose secretion lubricates the inferior vocal cords. PART BELOW the GLOTTIS — is flattened from side to side above, circiilar below, continuous inferiorly with canal of trachea.