222 THE NASAL FOSS-aSl. Two narrow irregular cavities comprised between the orbits & superior maxillary bones, and between the roof of the mouth & the front part of the base of the skull Termed by ethmoid, sphenoid, frontal, superior maxillary, nasal, palate, inferior turbin. ated & vomer (all the bones of the face except malar & inferior maxillary) Communicate with orbit (nasal duct), mouth, (anterior palatine canal), cranium (olfactory foramina), spheno-maxillary fossa (spheno-palatine foramen), and with the frontal, ethmoidal, sphenoidal, & maxillary sinuses. - Present ROOF — Narrow, and is from before backwards: Oblique upwards & backwards and formed by nasal bone «fe nasal spine of frontal, Horizontal and formed by cribriform plate of ethmoid, Oblique downwards & backwards and formed by body of sphenoid. — Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and from before backwards Groove on nasal bone for outer branch of nasal nerve j Half crest for perpendicular plate of ethmoid; Olfactory fora?Jiina & nasal slit for olfactory and nasal nerves ; Opettings of sphenoidal sinuses partly closed by sphenoidal turbinated bones j Articulation of ales of vomer with body of sphenoid. FLOOR — Concave from side to side, and formed by palate processes of superior maxillary i palate bones. - Presents the suture between foregoing bones & the Upper orifice of the anterior palatine canal; ^ Half crest for vomer, which terminates in front & behind in the H Anterior & posterior nasal spines. ^ INNSR WALL — Formed principally by the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid abovf & in front, and by the vomer below & behind, and secondarily bj nasal spine of the frontal, rostrum of sphenoid, crests of superior maxil- lary, nasal & palate bones. Has an angular deficiency in front which \i filled up by the cartilage of the septum. - Is frequently inclined to one or other side; and presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and Vascular & nervous furrows & Nasopalatine groove for naso-palatine nerve. OUTER WALL - Formed by: Laoymal bone & nasal process ofsztperior maxillary ; Inner surface ofethtjioid, superior maxillary & inferior ttirbinated bones; ^ Vertical plate of palate bone & inner plate of pterygoid process. - Presents the sutures between the foregoing bones and from above downwards; Superior ttirbinated process of ethmoid ; 'A Superior meatzis, into which open the sphenoidal & posterior ethmoidal sinusesl and the spheno-palatine foramen. - Both are short and are situated al" the posterior and upper part of the nares; Middle turbinated process of ethmoid ; Middle meatus, larger than foregoing, into which open the Antrum of Highmore and through the infundibulum, the anterior ethmoidal cells & frontal sinuses; Inferior turbinated bone ; Inferior meatus, the largest, prosente in front the opening of the nasal duct