Figs. 549 & 550.—under, surface of iMEDULLA & wesocephalon. (Sappey, Hirschfeld.) 1. pons varolii, continued on either side into the middle peduncles of the cerebellum, 3; 2, superficial origin of the fifth nerve ; 4, medulla oblongata; 5, anterior pyi-amid; 6, olivary body; 7, tubercle of Rolando ; 8, lateral tract; 9, crura cerebri; 10, corpora geniculata & optic tracts. Fig. 550.—the mesocephalon and medulla seen from behind, showing the three pairs ok cerebellar PEDUNCLES. (Hirschfeld, Sappey, Quain.) The three cerebellar peduncles are cut short on the left side ; on the right side the hemisphere is cut away obliquely, so as to show its connections with the superior and inferior peduncles. 1, postero- median groove on floor of fourth ventricle ; 2, auditory striae emerging therefrom about the middle of the ventricle; 3, inferior ijeduncle or restiform body ; 4, funicules gracilis ; 5, superior peduncle ; on the right side the dissection shows the superior and inferior peduncles crossing each other as they enter the central white substance of the cerebellum 6, fillet; 7, lateral grooves separating the crusta and tegmentum of the crura cerebri ; 8, tubercula quadrigemina. The term "'Pons Varolii" is now used in two different senses, (1) as signifying the broad transverse band of white fibres which arch like a bridge from one hemisphere of the cerebellum to the other: this is the original meaning of the term as used in dissectional Anatomy ; and (2) as a comprehensive designation of the ensemble of the connective link between the cerebrum, cerebellum, & medulla oblongata. In the Tablets proper, which deal with dissectional Anatomy, the term " Pons Varolii" is restricted to its original and obvious meaning, and the term " Mesocephalon " has been adopted in substi- tution for the same as used in its wider sense. In the Notes on structural Anatomy the term " Pons Varolii " has been used in its more comprehensive sense. It is hoped that the term "Mesocephalon" will not be confounded with the apparently somewhat similar term of embryological signilicance, "Mesencephalon." The