228e one tract, the posterior fibres of the commissure, and then the innermost fibres of the opposite tract, - thus returning to the centres of the opposite side of the brain ; they form no part of the optic nerves proper. The fibres common to the optic tract and commissure, and to the optic nerve, are divisible into crossed and direct. The former alone exist in animals whose vision is monocular, and are still in man the most numerous and most important. The latter fibres appear, in the animal series, with binocular vision, and are relatively most numerous in man. The crossed fibres occupy the inner part of the tract, the central and anterior parts of commissure, and the inner part of the optic nerve proper, and supply, in man, the inner tivo-thirds of the retina. The direct fibres occupy the outer part of the tract, commissure, and nerve, and supply, in man, the outer third of the retina; even in the higher vertebrates (except monkeys), the retinal area supplied by these fibres is far less than in man. It will be seen that, functionally, it is the peripheral part of the field of vision that is subserved by the crossed, and the more central part of the field tbat is subserved by the direct fibres. Ligament of Zinn. Is essentially a thickening of the periosteum of the optic foramen, presenting lower and upper expansions, which bridge over, the one, the lower and inner part of the sphenoidal fissure, and the other, the upper and outer part. The lower expansion, or inferior orbital tendon of Zinn, is the most marked, and corresponds to the origins of the inferior rectus, and of the lower part of the internal and external recti (lower head of the latter). The upper expansion, or superior orbital tendon of Lockwood^ is much thinner ; it gives origin to the superior rectus, and to the upper part of the internal and external recti. The lower expansion extends from the inner side of the optic foramen to the small spine on the orbital surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid, from which arises (partly) the lower head of the external rectus ; the upper expansion returns from the above spine to the ridge of bone on the outer side of the optic foramen. Both expansions are prolonged to some extent into the muscles arising from them, these prolongations being best seen on the surface of the several muscles which is turned towards the eye-ball. Tonon's Gapsnle, and Orbital Cone of Fat. The back part of the orbit is occupied by a conical mass of soft and large-grained fat hollowed out anteriorly for the reception of the eye-b?ll. Tenon's capsule is inter- posed between the anterior part of this cone of fat and the eye-ball. It is a loose cellular membrane spread out over the whole of the back part of the eye-ball and reaching as far as the cornea. In its central parts it presents two layers, orbital and ocular, separated by a serous cavity. The orbital layer lines the cavity of the cone of fat, and is prolonged backwards round the optic nerve as a double lymphatic sheath continuous on the one hand with the sub-dural lymph space, and on the other hand with the sub-arachnoid. The ocular layer is applied to the back part of the eye-ball, from which it is separated by very loose connected tissue. Peripherally, the capsule is continuous with the subconjunctinal tissue, and is attached to the external and internal palpebral ligaments and to the margin of the orbit. Tenon's capsule is perforated by the tendons of the muscles which move the eye-ball, the openings being strengthened centrally by bands attached to the periphery of the orbit, - pulleys of reflection protecting the eye-ball from pressure, - ^nd being, specially in the case of the recti, prolonged backwards upon the muscles in