155 MUSCLES. Platysma Myoides - Clavicle, acromion, fascia over pectoralis major, deltuid, & trapezius. Innermost fibres decussate below chin & in front of symphysis; others are inserted into lower jaw below external oblique line ; others blend with depressores labii inferioris & anguli oris and the other muscles of the mouth, forming risorius. - S. by superficial cervical plexus and facial nerve. Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid or Sterno-Mastoid. Sternal Portion - Upper & outer part of front of first piece of sternum. Clavicular Portion - Anterior surface & upper border of inner third of clavicle. Anterior border & outer surface of mastoid process and outer two-thirda of superior curved line of occipital bone. - S. by deep external branches of cervical plexus & by spinal accessory nerve. Trapezius - External occipital protuberance & inner third of superior curved line of occipital bone ; ligamentum nuchse & spinous processes of the last cervical & of all the dorsal vertebrse ; supraspinous ligament. Posterior border of outer third of clavicle, inner border of acromion ; whole length of upper lip of posterior border of spine of scapula, and tubercle at outer part of smooth surface at its inner extremity. - S. by spinal accessory nerve & deep branches of cervical plexus. Levator Anguli Scapulse - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the 3, 4, or 5 upper cervical vertebrse between splenius and scalenus medius. Posterior border of scapula between spine and superior angle. - S. by one of the deep branches of the cervical plexus and by one of the supra-clavicular branches of the brachial plexus. Splenius - Lower half of ligamentum nuchse and spinous processes of 7th cervical & six upper dorsal vertebras, Splenius Capitis - Mastoid process and outer part of rough surface between sup- erior & inferior curved lines of occipital bone. Splenius Colli - Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of the 2, 3, or 4 upper cer- vical vertebrae - S. by external branches of posterior divisions of cervical nerves. Scalenus AntiCUS - Tuhercule on inner border and upper surface of 1st rib. Anterior tubercules of transverse processes of 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th cervical vertebrae. - S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus. Scalenus Medius - Upper surface of first rib behind groove for subclavian arterj. Posterior tubercles of transverse processes of six lower cervical vertebrae. - S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus. Scalenus Posticus - Back of outer surface of 2nd rib. Posterior tubercules of transverse processes of two or three lower cervical vertebrae. -• S. by one of the supra-clavicular branches of brachial plexus.