2281 Fig. 384.—the communications of the right facial nerve with .iacobson's nerve and Meckel's and THE otic ganglia. (Hirschfeld.) (See page 228j.) Figs. 381 and 388.—right facial nerve in the internal auditory meatus, as seen from above. (1) Facial nerve in the internal auditory meatus, resting: upon the auditory nerve (5); (2) its geniculate ganglion, from which there passes forwards the large superficial petrosal nerve (3). A little beyond the ganglion the nerve is seen as it is turning backwards, as shown in the next figure. &, cochlea ; c, semicircular canals ; d, upper part of the malleus & incus, with the chorda tympani (4) passing between them inferiorly; 6, Gasserian ganglion, with the three divisions of the fifth nerve; e, tensor tympani muscle. Figs. 382 and 388.—right facial nbrve in the aqueductus fallopii, as seen from theVjuter side. (1, 1, 3, 4) Facial nerve in the first horizontal part of its course, its second horizontal part turning backwards, its vertical descending portion, and at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen ; (5) geniculate ganglion; (6) large superficial petrosal nerve, which is seen to be joined inferiorly by the large deep petrosal branch of Jacobson's nerve; (7) Meckel's ganglion; (8) small superficial petrosal nerve, similarly joined by the small deep pretrosal branch of Jacobson's nerve ; (9) chorda tympani, seen passing between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus ; 10, posterior auricular nerve, cut short; 11, 12, branches to stylo-hyoid and posterior belly of digastric; 13, twig to the glosso-pharyngeal; (14) glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Fig. 417.—gasserian ganglion, and superficial nerves of the orbit. (Sappey, Hirschfeld.) III., IV., VI., third, fourth, and sixth nerves; V., large or sensory root of the fifth nerve, leading to the Gasserian ganglion, 1 : a small portion of the motor root is seen projecting from beneath the sensory root; (2) trunk of the ophthalmic nerve in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus. The fourth nerve is seen lying immediately to its inner side. (3) Lachrymal nerve ; (4) frontal nerve, with its supra-trochlear division, 7, and the external and internal branches of its supra-orbital divisions, 5 & 6 ; (8) nasal nerve, seen further on in the anterior ethmoidal foramen, and entering the slit by the crista galli to the nose ; 9, its infra-trochlear branch. I. , olfactory tract and bulb ; II., chiasma of the optic nerves. II. , anterior deep temporal nerve, arising in common with the buccal nerve ; 12, a middle deep temporal nerve; 13, posterior deep temporal nerve ; 14, origin of the auriculo-temporal nerve; 15, large superficial petrosal nerve. Fig. 424.—deep nerves of the orbit. (Sappey.) (1) Third nerve, dividing into a small uperior branch, 2, which is seen supplying the levator palpebrae superioris & superior rectus, and a larger inferior branch, which is seen to supply the internal & inferior recti, 4 & 5, and to be continued beneath the eyeball to the inferior oblique. (From this latter there is seen given off the short or motor root of the lenticular ganglion, 7, which has been divided close to its origin.) (9) Sixth nerve, which is seen supplying the external rectus muscle ; 10, ciliary nerves, piercing the sclerotic round the optic nerve, and passing forwards between the sclerotic & the choroid. Fig. 425.—nerves of the orbit seen from the outer side. (Sappey.) The external rectus has been divided and turned down, its posterior part showing the ramifications of the sixth nerve, 5, on its inner surface. 1, optic nerve ; (2) trunk of the third nerve, its upper branch going to the levator palpebrse superioris & superior rectus; (4) its long lower branch, ending in the inferior oblique muscle. 6, Gasserian ganglion ; 7, ophthalmic nerve, with its nasal branch, 8. 9, ciliary or lenticular ganglion, with its three roots, - short or motor, 10, long or sensory, 11, and sympathetic, 12.