Floor and Lateral Recesses of the Fourth Ventricle.* The strice acusticoi divide the floor of the 4th ventricle into two triangles, a lower one and an upper one. They emerge from about the middle of the postero-median fissure, and pass out to the lateral recesses, crossing: the most prominent part of the tuberculum acusticum. They appear to join the large outer root of the auditory nerve, but some are believed to pass on to the flocculus. The INFERIOR TRIANGLE presents towards its middle a depression triangular iu shape, the in ferior fovea. The fovea has its apex directed upwards, reaching to the strijB ; its base is turned downwards, and is prolonged into two grooves or limbs passing, the inner one downwards and inwards, the outer one downwards and out- Avards. By the fovea and its limbs the inferior triangle is thus divided into three triangular are* of nearly equal size. The area between the two limbs is somewhat darker in colour than the neighbouring parts, and is called the ala cinerea, or trigonum vagi: It contains the principal nucleus of the pneumogastric nerve, and also, quite inferiorly, a portion of the nucleus of the spinal accessory nerve. Internally to the inner limb of the fovea, between it and the lower part of the postero-median fissure, is an area lighter in colour termed the ala alba interna, or trigonum hypoglossi. This corresponds both to the upper part of the tract of cells which form the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve, and also to the lower part of the fasciculus teres, or intrapontine portion of the facial nerve. Externally to the outer limb of the fovea is another lighter area, the ala alba externa, physiologically designated the tuberculum acusticum : The upper part of this, the part lying close to, - and prolonged somewhat beneath the striae, and to near the lateral recess of the ventricle, - contains the principal auditory nucleus ; the lower part contains the upper prolongation of the column of cells which form the principal nucleus of the glosso- pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves. The nuclei of the hypoglossal nerve and of the accessory portion of the spinal accessory are prolonged for some distance into the grey matter of the cord, the former in front of the central canal, and the latter behind it. The SUPERIOR TRIANGLE also presents a triangular depression, the fovea superior, lying in a line with the inferior fovea, from which it is separated by the tuberculum acusticum and the strife. Internally t9 the superior fovea, between it and the upper part of the postero-median ^roov^e, is an elongated eminence, the eminentia teres, situated in a line with the trigonum hypoglossi, and formed in part by the ascending intrapontine portion of the facial nerve. The fovea is prolonged superiorly into a shallow dark depression, the locus coeruleus, corresponding to the subjacent substantia ferruginea. In the superior triangle, just above the strife, and close to the postero-median fissure, is the nucleus of the 6th nerve. Externally to this, between it and the superior fovea, Fig. 546.—floor of fourth VENTRICLE. NATURAL SIZE. 'm.s., postero-median fis- sure ; str., striae acusticae ; l.r., lateral recess ; i.f., ff>vea infei'ior; s.f., fovea superior; a.c, ala cinerea, or trigonum vagi; t.a., tuberculum acus- ticum. (Quain.) * These two pages would best be read in conjunction with the account of the deep origins of the cranial nerves given at the beginning of this volume, pp. 152k to 152t.