249 THE THORACIC & RIGHT LYMPHATIC DUCTS. THORACIC DUCT — Commenceg in receptaculum chyli, passes through aortic openint? o. diaphraj^m, and then ascends in front of spine as high as 4th dorsal vertebrt.*^ fyitig behind oesophagus, between aorta & vena azygos major. It then inclines to the left, and ascends first behind arch of aorta and then behind first portion of subclavian artery of left side* and finally, opposite upper border of 7th cervical vertebra, it arches forwards above pleura & in front of scalenus anticus, and opens into angle of junction between left internal jugular & subclavian veins, its opening being guarded by a pair of valves. It is somewhat tortuous in its course, constricted at intervals on account of the valves it contains; of the size of a goose-quill at its commencement, somevvhnt narrower in the thorax, again enlarged at the root of the neck. Somecimea it bifurcates, its Kft division taking the usual course, its right division joining the right lymphatic duet. - It is the common trunk of all the lymphatics of the body, except those of the right side of the head, neck, x thorax, right upper limb, right lung, right side of the heart, & part of the convex surface of the liver. Receptaculum Chyli - is a dilatation of the commencement of the thoracic duct, which lies in front of the 2nd lumbar vertebra, behind & to right side of the aorta, and between it and the vena azygos major & the right crus of the diaphragm. It receives the trunks ot the lacteal vessels, and four or five large trunks from the lumbar lymphatic glands. jjjQjjip LYMPHATIC DUCT — la a short thick trunk from half an inch lo an inoti in length and ot about a line or a line & a half in diameter, which collects the Ij^mph from the right side of the head, neck, & thorax, right uppe.- liaib, right lung, right side of the hear t, & part of the convex surface of the liver. It opens into the angle of junction between the right internal jugular & right subclavian veins, its opening being guarded by a pair of valves SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. From upper & back part of 1st portion of subclavian on left sid6» of 2nd portion on right side. Passes backwards for a short distance, and gives ofi' its deep cervical branch ; it then descends in front of neck of 1st rib, or in front of necks of 1st & 2nd ribs on outer side of 1st dorsal gang, lion of sympathetic, gives off one or two brandies similar to the aortic intercostals, and joins with the first of the latter arteries, Dfkp Cfrvical or Profunda Cervicis - Sometimes arises directly from subclavian. Backwards between neck of 1st rib & transverse process of 7th cervical vertebra, and apcends between complexns & seniispinalis colli, anasto- niosing with vertebral artery & deep branch of arteria princeps cerricia ?0