canal • but. after the third month, the canal and the roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves grow more rapidly than the cord itself, so that at birth the lower end of the cord reaches only to about the third lumbar vertebra. The cord is enclosed in a sheath (theca) considerably longer and larger than itself, formed by the dura mater, and separated from the walls of the vertebral canal by venous plexuses, and a good deal of loose areolar tissue. The cavity of the sheath is divided by the curtain-like arachnoid into the subdural and subarachnoid spaces, the latter occupied bv cerebro-spinal fluid. Within the latter space the cord is kept in position by the ligamentum denticulatum, and by the roots of the spinal nerves Avhich pass across the space from the surface of the cord towards the intervertebral foramina. In section the cord is nearly circular, especially in the thoracic region, though somewhat flattened in front and behind. The cord is not, however, of uniform diameter throughout, but presents two enlargements - an upper or cervical (brachial), and a lower or lumbar (crural). The cervical enlargement is of greater size and extent than the lumbar. It extends from the upper limit of the cord to the body of the first or second thoracic vertebra, and is largest opposite the fifth or sixth cervical vertebra. The lumbar enlargement begins at the tenth thoracic vertebra, and is largest opposite the twelfth ; its antero-posterior diameter is more nearly equal to the transverse than is the case in the cervical enlargement. Fissures.—The cord is partially divided into right and left halves by anterior and posterior median fissures, which penetrate the greater part of its thickness. The antero-median fissure is the wider, but shallower, of the two, and contains a distinct fold of pia mater. It is bounded anteriorly by the anterior or white commissure. The postero- median fissure is much narrower, but penetrates to the centre of the cord; it contains but a thin process of connective tissue and blood-vessels prolonged into it from the pia mater. It is bounded anteriorly by the posterior or grey commissure. A well-marked furrow, th^ postero-lateralfissure, is seen on each side of the cord, corresponding to the line of emergence of the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. This divides each lateral half of the cord into anterior and posterior portions, of which the former is again divided into two by the line of attachment of the anterior roots. The cord thus comes to be parted into three columns, anterior, middle, and posterior. In the cervical region a slightly marked longitudinal groove, ihe. fostero-ijiier- mediate furrow, runs on the surface of the posterior column near to the postero-median fissure. It indicates the position of a delicate septum of coimective tissue passing from the pia mater into the posterior column, and dividing the latter into 2, postero-median column, or column of Goll, and ?i, postero-lateral column, or column of Bwdach. White Matter.—The white matter increases in amount from below upwards. It completely surrounds the grey matter, except opposite the posterior commissure and opposite the apex of the posterior cornu referred to below. Grey Matter.—The grey matter forms a fluted column. In transverse section, it is in the shape of the letter H. On each side there is a crescentic mass shaped somewhat like a comma with its concavity outwards, and the convexity of which is joined to the convexity of the opposite side by the posterior or grey commissure. This latter contains the central canal of the cord. Each crescentic mass is divided into anterior and posterior cornua. The anterior cornu is short and thick, but fails to reach the surface of the cord. Its anterior enlarged extriemity is the caput cornu; the constricted part near the grey commissure is the cervix