348z emity. V extr( the grey matter, and penetrate the white or medullary substance to a depth of about an inch and a half without communicating with each other or with the short arteries, except by very small capillaries. They are thus " semi-terminal," or not so strictly terminal as the arterioles of the central or cortical system. Fig. 580.—diagram op the circle of willts and its central or ganglionic branches. • (Charcot, Macalister.) ' \, B, C, vertebral, basilar, and internal carotid arteries; CA, CP, S, anterior, posterior, and middle cerebral arteries; 1, 2, 3, 4, antero-raedian, postero-median, antero-lateral, and postero-lateral terminal arterioles. General Distribution of the Three Cerebral Arteries to the Cortex Anterior Whole of inner surface of hemisphere from the anterior pole to close upon the internal parieto-occipital fissure. A strip of the outer and under surfaces of the hemisphere running along the corresponding portions of the longitudinal fissure. This strip is narrow both over the parietal lobe, where it includes the upper part only of the superior and ascending Cerebral Artery. ^ parietal convolutions, and also on the under or orbital surface of the frontal lobe, I where it includes the straight and internal orbital convolutions. It widens out over I the outer surface of the frontal lobe, where it includes the upper part of the I ascending frontal convolution, the superior frontal convolution, and the anterior two- ^ thirds of the middle frontal convolution. Whole of parietal lobe, except the narrow strip above referred to. Temporal lobe : - Superior temporal convolution and the greater part of the middle temporal convolution ; anterior e.xtremity of internal and external occipito- temporal convolutions. Frontal lobe:-Lower and back part of convex surface, including the inferior frontal convolution, the posterior third of the middle frontal corivolution, and the ascending frontal convolution, except quite its upper part; - the orbital surface externally to the internal frontal convolution. Whole of occipital lobe, with the adjacent portion of the quadrate lobule. Inferior temporal convolution, and lower part of the middle temporal convolution. Internal and external occipito-temporal convolutions, except their anterior Midi le Cerebral Artery Posterior Cerebral Artery \: