GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. ArisesJrovi groove betioeen oltvary d-^ resiifor/n bodies above pneilmogastric.—ts the smallest of the nerves leaving the cranium througti the jugular foramen. Through anterior & inner part of jugular foramen in front of pueumogastric & spinal accessor) and in a separate sheath, grooving lower border of petrous portion of temporal bone and presenting two ganglia Sup. or Jugular G. ok Ct. Of the Koot — Small, and involves only the outer fibres; Inf. or Petrous G. or G. of Andersch — Larger, and involves whole of fibres. Gives off from petrous ganglion : T'nnpank branch or yacobson's nerve, described below ; Anastomotic br. to ganglion of the root to auricular br. of the pueumogastric } and from a little below the g mglion: Anastomotic br. to facial nerve. — This branch pierces post, belly of digastric. Downwards «fc forwards in front of pneumogastric & between int. carotid & int. jugular vein. Beneath styloid process & muscles connected with it to lower border of stylo-pharyngeua. Curves inwards upon stylo-pharyugeus & middle constrictor. Beneath hyo-glossus to mucous membrane of fauces & base of tongue. BRANCHES Tympanic Br. or JaCObson's N. — Arises from petrous ganglion. Ascends through small canal in petrous bone to tympanum, where divides into Brs. of Communication — IlIq carotid plexus and great 6^ small petrosal branches of facial, Bks. of Distribution — To fenestra rotunda, fenestra oralis mucous mem brane of Eustachia n tube. Carotid Brs. — Descend on internal carotid artery, and join pharyngeal brs. of pneumogastric, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic, Pharyngeal Brs. —Three or four; form pharyngeal plexus by joining opposite middle constrictor witli pharyngeal brs. of pneumogastric, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic Muscular Brs. — To stylo-pharyngeus & constrictors of pharynx. Tonsillar Brs. — To tonsil, forming tonsillar plexus, branches of which are distri buted to soft palate it rauons Lingual Brs. — To mucous membrune of base <fe sitio ol toniri-o.