152u If work is to be done well, it mast not be broken up into bits and fragments, especially into such as do not fit in with one another. One kind of work should be taken in hand continuously and steadily till it is done with. If our anatomy is to be dissecting- room anatomy, - and who can doubt for a moment that this is the useful anatomy for the medical ? - then, if the work is to be successfully carried out, we should first have dissecting-room anatomy alone, till such part of the curriculum is, as is the fashion now, examined in and set aside. Then paper anatomy can be taken with advantage. Or, better, paper anatomy can come in all along with physiology. What more akin to physiology than the work above recorded ? Excellent work, and most interesting, work that cannot be too highly praised; but laboratory ivork, not dissecting-room work; work ever conducted by the physiologist, not by the anatomist in the usual sense of the term. Will undeniable facts be looted in the face ? In all the newer books of anatomy the description of each cranial nerve begins with the description of its deep origin. This necessarily strikes the student as the first thing he should master. What, then, can he do, but puzzle through, and learn off more or less by heart,-for he can see nothing, - the statement which thus faces him at the onstart ? To do this he leaves the dissecting room. Of what use being among the parts " for work, with which the parts'" have nothing in common^ And leaving the dissecting room to " get up," among other things, the deep origins of the cranial nerves, he contents himself with a rapid and careless dissection of the " head and neck " as a whole, or with looking over his neighbour's dissection. The writer sees men by hundreds who, when questioned as to their dissections, reply that they have done everything but the head and neck, - everything, that is, but that most difficult and most important part of all. Students thus become deeply imbued with the view that all that is required of them in regard to anatomy is that they shall be able to recognise, or " spot," things when they are shown them, and to write and talk fairly about them. Now the stress of work aiming at the above objects lies, not in the direction of the so-called practical test of recognising, of "spotting,"- this is quite an easy affair, a matter of mere " nodding acquaintance,"* - but in the direction of the writing and talking. The student's effort tends, therefore, in the direction of the information he finds already formulated in books, - in books to be learnt off more or less by heart. What follows ? Men leave more and more everything that ties them in any way. Why should they be troubled with supervision that cannot help them ? They can best get up the book-work in their own way. And they thus get up the book-work, * What does the " spotting " test come to ? Given a student who has been mainly taught" paper anatomy," and who is shown, say, a dissected head and neck, he must know that the single large artery at the lower part of the anterior triangle is the common carotid; that, of the two large arteries at the upper part, the posterior one is the internal carotid, and the anterior one, the external carotid ; similarly, counting from below upwards, that the anterior off- shoots of the latter are respectively the superior thyroid, Ungual and facial. However really ignorant