38 PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. Aiiscs from groove between olwury restifonn bodies below glosso-pharyngeal above spinal accessory. Through jugular foramen behind glosso-pharyngeal & in same sheath as spinal accessory. Presents two ganglia, one in and one below jugular foramen : Sup. or Jugular G. or G-. of the Root — Small, greyish, rounded. Anastom. with facial, glosso-pharyngeal, spinal accessory syvipathetic, [nf. G. or G. of the Trunk — Reddish, cylindrical, nearly an inch in length. Anastom. witb hypoglossal, spinal accessory, sympathetic, loop between two first cervical nerva Descends behind & between int. & comm. carotid arteries & int. jugular v. and in same sheath; Then, On Right Side : Between subclavian art. & v. and along side of trachea to back of root of lung, where spreads out into posterior pulmonary plexus. Along side of cesophagus in the shape of two or more separate cords, which form oesophageal plexus with nerve of opposite side. As a single cord along back of cesophagus to posterior surface of stomach, and joins solar & splenic plexuses. On Left Side : Between and in front of left comm. carotid & left subclavian arteries behind left innominate vein. Across arch of aorta to back of root of lung, where similarly spreads out and joins with its fellow. Along side of oesophagus as above. As a single cord along front of oesophagus to anterior surface of stomach, and joins left hepatic plexus. BRANCHES: Auricular Br. — Arises from g. of the root, and joins with glosso-pharyngeal. Across jugular fossa & through opening in temporal bone near styloid process; Between mastoid process & ext. audit, meatus to integument of back of piuna. Gives off: Ascending Br., which joins trunk of facial in aqueductus Fallopiij Descending Br., which joins auricular branch of facial. Pharyngeal Br. — AWses from upper part of ganglion of the trunk j Crosses internal carotid art. either in front or behind; Aiiast. with glosso-pharyngeal, sup. laryngeal & sympathetic, and forms pha- ryngeal plexus to muscles & mucous membrane of pharynx. Sup. Laryngeal N. — Arises from middle of ganglion of the trunk. Descends by side of pharynx behind int. carotid artery, and divides into: EXT. LARYNGEAL BR. — Joins with pharyngeal plexus & sup. car- diac nerve, and supplies crico-thyroid & inf. constrictor. INT. LARY:NGBAL BR. — Pierces thyro-hyoid membrane to aryte- noiil muscle and mucous membrane of larynx, base of tongue & aryteno-epiglottidean fold^". Bi^PUrr. Laryngeal N. — Ar. in front of, and passes below & behind, subclav. &fl. on right side, arch of aorta, on left, giving twigs to deep cardiac plexus; Behind comm. carotid & inf. thyroid arteries, and in groove between trachea & cesophagns. Beneath ini. constrictor to all the muscles of the larynx except crico-thyroid. Gives brs. to inf. constrictor, and anastomoses with ext. laryngeal Cardiac Brs. — Divided into: Cervical Cardiac i-j^., xr ^-xl. tt . Thoracic Cardiac S ^'^^ «^ ; Pulmonary Brs. — Divided into Anterior and Posterior, and form the anu. & nost. pulmonary plexuses. (Vide nerves of the lung.)^ CEsophageal Brs. — Arise, some above, but most of them below, the pulmonarv. Gastric Brs. — Right pneumogastnc supplies post, aspect of stomach and joins so- lar & splenic plexuses; left pneumog. supplies ant. aspect, and joins left hepatic piexiie.