282 OUTER SURFACE OP THE FIVE LOBES: FRONTAL LOBE - Presents: Ascending Frontal Coxvolutiox - Forms the anterior boundary of the Assure of Rolando. Is usually continuous round the lower end of that hssure with the ascending parietal convolution. In front of this convolution is the PregentkA-l Sulcus (4 & o) - Kunning parallel to tlie fissure of Rolando, and from which there pass forwards the Superior & Inferior Frontal Sulci (6 & 7) - Separating the Superior, Middle & Inferior Frontal Convolutions, - Which pass forwards one above the other to the anterior pole of the hemisphere, PARIETAL LOBE - Presents : Ascending Parietal Convolution - Forms the posterior boundary of the fissure of Rolando, and is usually continuous round the lower end of that fissure, with the ascending frontal convolu- tion. - Behind this convolution are the superior & inferior parietal convolutions separated from the former and from each other by the three limbs of the intra-parietal fissure (8, 9,10). Superior Parietal Convolution - Extends along the side of the longitudinal fissure between the parieto-occipital fissure (P.O.), & the fissure of Rolando (R.) ; it is continuous in front with the upper part of the ascending parietal convolution, and joined behind to the superior occipital by the first annectent convolution. Inferior Parietal Convolutiox - Divided according to still current descriptions {V. note, p. 348j) into: SupRA-MAKGiNAL CONVOLUTION - Situated below and in front of the superior parietal convolution, and in front of the angular convolution. It is separated from the ascending parietal convolution by the lower limb of the intra-parietal, or post-central, nssure (10), and is connected behind with the angular convolution, and, below, with tlie superior temporMl convolution round the posterior extremity of the fissure of Sylvius. A>ttui.AR Convolution - Situated behind the preceding. It blends below with the middle temporoal convolution, and is connected behind with the middle occipital by tbe second annectent convolution,