250 INTERIOR of the HEART. P.IGHT SIDE. Is larger in its auricular portion, and lias thinnei' walls than the lell. AURICLE — Divided into: Appendix Auriculse - Narrow indented pouch, which overlaps the arch of the "•^ aorta, and pi esents on its inner surface the muscicU pedinati, which exieud somewhat into the sinus. Sinus - 'i'he central cavity; presents: - Opkjsing OF THE SuPEiiioR Vena Cava - Sottiewhat smaller than that of the iuienor cava; situated at the upper & front part; looks down- wards & forwards, and has npar it the Tiibercle of Lower - Small eminence, scarcely visible in man, situated on ricrht all of nuricle between the two venae cavae. Opening of the Inferiok Vena Cava - Somewhnt larger than that of the superior cava; situated rit the lower & back part near the septum; looks upwards & inwards, and presents the Eustachian Valve - Semilunar in form with concave free, and convex at- tached niariiins; situated below the op Miiug of the inferior vena cava between it & the auricuio-veutricular openinq-, and passes up- wards & to the left to the anterior mar^rin of the annulus ovalis. Smnll in the adult. Contains a few muscular fibres. Opening ok the Cohonauv Sinus - Situated below the openinur of ^he inferior vena cava & the Eustachian valve. Presents the Coronary Valve or Valve of Thebesms. Foramina Thebesii - Some of which are the openings of the vense cordis niinimee, while others are but small blind depressions. AuKicui.o-Ventricular Opening - Witi. the tricuspid valve (Vide below). Foramen Ovale - In the foetus. Situated at the lower & back part of septum above opening-of inierior vena cava; replaced in adult by the Fossa Ovalis - Oval depression surrounded by a prominent circular rim, the Annulus Ovalis^ - and which often presents a small valvular opening at its upper part. VENTRICLE — Triangular in shape, and has much thinner walls than the left one. Prolonged upwards & to the left into the Jnfundibiilum or Conus arteriosus. Presents :- Aukicclo-Ventricular Opening - Oval, broadest from side to side. Situate*! behind the centre of the sternum on a level with the 4th intercostal space, ou the right side of the aortic & left auricuio-veutricular openings. Guarded by the Tricuspid Valve - Pi esents three triangular segments, which are attached superiorly to the mafgin of the auricuio-veutricular ring & laterally to each other, and of which the left one is the largest. Tney are formed by a central hbrous lamina attached superiorly to the fib- rous ring of the opening and covered by a duplioature of the endo- cardium. Their under surface & borders give attachment to the chord'X tendinecB. Open ING OF THE Pulmonary Artery - Situated at the apex of the conus arte- riosus opposite the upper border of th^ third costal cartilage of the left side close to the sternum. Guarded by the ^einilmiar Valves - Three; formed of fibrous tissue surrounded by a du- plicature of the endocardium, and present: Convex margin - Attached to the fibrous ring of the orifice; Fra margin - Slightly concave, strengthened by a bundle of tendinous fibres, presenting in the centr e a fibro-cartilaginous nodule, t he corpus Arantii, and laterally 'wo thin lunated portions, the lunula. Above the valves are three sriiail pouches, the Simises of Valsalva. Con iiN E Carne/LO - Tbree sortt, which are attached respectively by one side, liy both extremities, by one extremity only, to the wall of the ven- ti icle. 'i he latter ire the J.UU6I.UU Fu£uturt:^ - Three or four; give origin to the Chordcs Tendinea,