256} THE AOETA DESCEIBED EMBRYOLOGICALLY. The origin of the Aorta from the "ascending root," left "fourth arch," and "descending root," as above described, is taken by "advanced" writers of to-day to warrant a re-description of the vessel less striking at first sight, but really more remark- able, for its boldness, than the re-description of the visceral crgans according to His' plaster of Paris models. The new description of the Aorta, as divided into " Ascending Aorta," ''Transverse Aorta," or "Arch," and "Descending Aorta," found in the latest editions of several text-books, is given below. But it should be noted at once that the "Arch" described from the embryological standpoint is but a portion (the central portion) of the Arch as usually described ; and, further, that it is not the Arch as yet referred to, or ever likely to be referred to, either by the physician or surgeon, who treats, say, the aneurism, or by the pathologist, Avho notes the site of the atheromatous lesion. Here is simply a distinct and undeniable instance of the encroachment of the scientist upon groimd of which the profession alone are competent to judge. Writes Prof. Macalister: " Morphology .... has given Anatomy a new aspect." This it undoubtedly has ; but through professional supineness, and for a time only, it is believed. There is no escape from the dilemma: "You must found your anatomy on the facts of the dissecting room, or on embryology and morphology—on what is visible and tangible, or on what is not no. In the former case you get a practical knowledge of anatomy—in the latter you get an abstract and theoretical knowledge ; in the former case you get anatomy familiar to the eye and the finger—in the latter case you get anatomy as a mental conception ; in the former case you get the anatomy of the surgeon—in the latter case you get the anatomy of the scieniist." (See " Old and New Schools of Anatomy," page 25.) Nor is there any escape from this authoritative conclusion : *' Embryology and morphology are most interesting, but they do not fit a man for the practice of his profession." (See letter of "A Former Teacher of Anatomy," page 321.) There is with many a natural tendency to blindly accept all later views and statements as necessarily and properly superseding earlier oner. It is hoped that the foregoing examination of the basis on which, in this instance, - and this is but one instance among many, - the newer views and statements rest, may at least transfer the question of their acceptance to higher ground, - that of the previous question, whether the said basis is a desirable one, or not, on which to found anatomy for Medical men.* * It is for similar reasons that we must now have sacral and coccijgeal aortse, with new arterioles almost innmnerable; that the external jugular vein must now begin at the mastoid process; that the internal jugular vein must end at the upper border of the thyroid cartilage ; that the descendens noni nerve must no longer be a branch of the hypoglossal; that numerous muscles must be re-named, and several new ones created; that the description of the brain must be so re-modelled as to make it almost unrecognisable; &c., &c. In not one of the above instances are the requirements of practice in any way considered. These, indeed, are entirely sacrificed : We must no longer have a femoral ring