228j (and going with it to the otic ganglion). Matters now stand thus: While, on the one hand, the LARGE PETROSAL NERVE (the compound nerve which goes to Meckel's ganglion) is still admitted by all, as formerly,to be derived from the two sources named, - namely, the large superficial petrosal branch of the facial, and the large deep petrosal branch of Jacobson's nerve (Quain calls the latter the sinall deep petrosal nerve*), - on the other hand, the SMALL PETROSAL NERVE, as it used to be called (the compound nerve which goes to the otic ganglion), is no longer considered to have a quite similar double origin ; it is no longer considered to be formed from the two sources formerly named, - namely, the small super- ficial petrosal branch of the facial, and the small deep petrosal branch of Jacobson's nerve. It would appear from Krause's investigations that the portion of this small petrosal nerve derived from the glosso-pharyngeal preponderates largely (it is shown to be some- what the larger in Hirschfeld's figure as given below) over the portion derived from the facial, and that this latter portion is indeed quite insignificant. This former facial portion of the small petrosal nerve now becomes, therefore, a mere " filament of communicationfrom the geniculate ganglion" (Quain); while the former small deep petrosal branch of Jacobson's nerve becomes th'^ small petrosal nerve, or, as Quain calls it, the "small Fig. 449b.—jacobson's and Arnold's nerves, and their communications. (Hirschfeld.) 1, right facial nerve in internal auditory meatus, & first portion of aqueductus Fallopii; 5, the same as it turns backwards in the aqueduct; 6, the same as it turns downward in the same canal. (The nerve is shown as drawn backwards at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen, in order that it should not mask the view of the other structures depicted.) 2, portio intermedia of Wrisberg, joining the trunk of the facial in the internal auditory meatus, and reaching the geniculate ganglion, which latter is seen at the anterior angle of the first bend of the facial nerve ; 3, large superficial petrosal nerve going to Meckel's ganglion, 4 ; 15, small superficial petrosal nerve going to the otic ganglion, 16 ; 7, Arnold's auricular branch of the pneumogastric ; 8, chorda tympani divided (the dotted line should have been prolonged across the facial nerve) ; 9, petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, or ganglion of Andersh ; 10, Jacobson's nerve 11, its filament to the carotid plexus, 12 ; 13, large deep petrosal nerve joining the large superficial petrosal, and going with it to Meckel's ganglion ; 14, small deep petrosal nerve joining the small superficial petrosal nerve, 15, and going with it to the otic ganglion, 16; 17, 18, 19, branches of distribution of Jacobson's nerve to the fenestra rotunda, fenestra ovalis, and Eustachian tube.—(Hirschfeld.) superficial petrosal " nerve. Thus the facial nerve is now said to give off the superficial petrosal nerve, or " external superficial petrosal nerve" (Quain), going to Meckel's ganglion, and a communicating branch to the small superficial petrosal; and Jacobson's nerve is said to give off this small superficial petrosal nerve (going to the otic ganglion), and the "small deep petrosal nerve"* (going to Meckel's ganglion). Evidently the petrosal nerves require re-naming. " The term "large deep petrosal nerve" is now applied in Quain's Anatomy to the sympathetic root of Meckel's ganglion, - that is to say, the branch of the sympathetic passing from the carotid plexus to this ganglion.