326 THE FOURTH VENTRICLE. Khomboidal cavity prolonged into two lateral recesses, which is bounded by the medulla oblongata & mesocephalon below & in front and the cerebellum above & behind, and closed in inferiorly by a layer of pia mater & epithelium, the tela choroidea. Presents FLOOR - Lozenge-shaped, oblique downwards & backwards; covered by a stratum of grey matter, from the cells in which there arise several of the cranial nerves, AvhoUy or in part; bounded on either side below by the posterior pyramids & restiform bodies,* and above by the processus e cerebello ad testes. Presents the following parts, which give rise to the appearance termed the calamus scriptorius: - PosTERO-MEDiAN FissuRB - Continued above into the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, below into the ventricle of Arantius or upper ex- panded part of the central canal and into the postero-median fissure of the cord. Stri^ Acustic^ ; Fovea Inferior, with the Trigona Hypoglossi & Vagi, & the Tdberculum Acusticum; Fovea Superior, with the Eminentia Teres, & Locus Cceruleus. ROOF — Formed above by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum & the valve of Vieussens| below by the tonsils, the inferior vermiform process with the uvula, the nodule, an( the inferior medullary velui LATERAL BOUNDARIES ~ Formed by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum abov( and by the diverging restiform bodies & posterior pyramids below^ UPPER EXTREMITY - Presents the opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius or iter a teriio quartum ventricului LOWER EXTREMITY - Presents an opening in the tela choroidea, the foramen of Magendie,' situated opposite the apex of the calamus scriptorius. There is another smaller opening at the extremity of each lateral recess, the foramen of Key & Retzius. Through these openings the ventricular cavities of the brain communicate with the subarachnoidean space of the brain & cord. Choroid Plexuses of 4th Ventricle - Vide intra-cerebral portion of the pia mater, p. 306. ■ Advanced ajiatomists would put it "cuneate fasciculi below and restiform bodies above." {See note, p. 348x.)' But there is no outward demarcation visible warranting the distinction and the two names in regard to dissection|| anatomy. A leading anatomist gets over the difficulty by picturing the medulla, not of the adult, but of the foetus.