202 THE ORBIT. Quadrilateral pyramidal fossa looking forwards & outwards and formed by seven bone! the frontal, ethmoid, sphenoid ( which enter into formation of both orbits), supt rior maxillary, malar, lachrymal & palati Communicates with cranium, and with nasal, temporal, zygomatic & spheno-maxillari fossss through optic foramen, nasal duct & sph©no-maxillary fissurt Presents: ROOF — Formed by orbital plate of frontal & lesser wing of sphenoid. Is concave, and pre sents the suture between the foregoing bones, and in front th Lachrymal fossa for lacrymal gland, and a I Depression (fovea trochlearis ) for pulley of superior oblique. || FLOOR — Formed by upper or orbital surface of superior maxillary and orbital processes c| malar & palate bones. Presents the sutures between foregoing bones, thl Infra-orbital groove for infra-orbital vessels & nerve, which becomes converted in front intl Infra-orbital canal; and also at its anterior k inner part a Depression for inferior oblique muscle. INNER WALL — Formed from before backwards by nasal process of superior maxillary lachrymal, os planum of ethmoid, body of sphenoid. Is antero-posteric in direction and parallel to its fellow, and presents the sutures betwee foregoing bones and th idfa Lachrymal groove for lachrymal sac. Crest of lachrymal bone for tensor tarsi muscle. OUTER WALL — Formed in front by orbital process of malar bone, and behind by antt rior or orbital surface of great wing of sphenoid. Is very oblique forward & outwards being nearly at right angles with its fellow, and presents th suture between foregoing bones, and th Orifices of one or two malar canals, S77iaU spine for lower head of external rectus. ANGLES: SUP. EXTERNAL-Presents: Articulation of frontal with malar bone & orbital plate of sipfeenoid, Sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anterius for 3rd, 4th & 6th nerves and ophthalmi nerve & veil SUP. INTERNAL - Presents Suture connecting frontal with lachrymal & os planum, in which suture are the Anterior ethmoidal canal for nasal nerve & anterior ethmoidal vessels, and the Posterior ethmoidal canal for posterior ethmoidal vessels. INF. EXTERNAL - Presents Spheno'maxillary fissure for infra-orbital vessels & nerve and ascending branches Meckel's gangUoi INF. INTERNAL-Presents Articulation of superior maxillary & palate bones with lachrymal & os planum. CIRCUMFERENCE OR BASE — Quadrilateral, looks forwards & outwards. ] bounded by supra-orbital arch and external & internal angular process( of frontal, anterior border of orbital surface & nasal process of superic maxillary, and anterior border of malar bone. Presents Supra-orbital notch or foramen for supra-orbital vessels & nerve j and assists in formic r? Lachrymal groove for lachrymal sac. APEX — Corresponds to optic foramen fo-r optic nerve & ojahthalmic artery.