OPTIC THALAMUS. Large ovoid mass of grey matter white superficially, situated hehind & internally to the corpus striatum, and separated superficially from the caudate nucleus by the tseuia semicircularls & the lamina cornea, and deeply from the lenticular nucleus by the posterior limb of the internal capsule (see Figs. 530, 515. 51G, 5L7, 518). Presents: Ant. ExTREMiir - Xarrou', situated behind anterioi- cms of fornix ; forms posterior boundary of foramen of Monro. Post. Extremity or Pulvinar - Broad & rounded. Projects into descending cornu of lateral ventricle, and is continuous internally with tubercula quadrigemina. Upper Surface - In front & externally it forms part of floor of lateral ventricle, and presents a slight elevation, the anterior tiibercle : behind & internally it is covered by the velum interpositum & fornix, which rest upon it; these two parts of the upper surface are separated by a slight groove corresponding to the edge of the fornix. The stria pinealis or superior peduncle of the pineal gland separates this surface from the inner surface. Quite posteriorly, just outsid(! the stria pinealis, is slight triangular depression, broadest behind, the trigonum hahenulce. Under Surface - Continuous with posterior rounded extremity. In its posterior part it forms part of roof of descending cornu of lateral ventricle (see Figs. 513 & 514), and presents two small eminences, the corpora geniculata internum et externum (see Figs. 528,1! 529), which are connected with inner & outer bands of origin of optic tract (See noteai pp. 315, and 228d). In its anterior part it rests upon the tegmentum of the crul cerebri and subthalamic regioiB Inner Surface - Forms lateral boundary of 3rd ventricle. Is joined to its fellow by the middle, soft, or grey commissure, and presents inferiorly the grey matter of the interior of the thalamus uncovered by the white. It is crossed superficially by a shallow groove, running from the foramen of Monro towards the opening of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The stria pinealis or superior peduncle of the pineal gland separates this surface from the upper. Oi.'TKR Surface - Rests against the posterior limb of the inner capsule (F'igs. 515, 516. 517, 518). which separates it from the lenticular nucleus. •