256r has here been called the ''common inferior caval frwu^."* - The portal vein is now constituted in its first or primitive form (Diagram G). This first portal vein receives its blood mainly, at first, from the umbilical vesicle: - The umbilical vesicle is now at its maximum, while the intestine and abdominal viscera are still undeveloped: therefore the o???;;^a//c branches of the omphalo-mesenteric veins, i,e. the branches which proceed/ro/?? the umbilical vesicle^ predominate over the mesenteric brariches. Subsequently, as, on the one hand, the intestine and abdominal viscera develop, while, on the other hand, the umbilical vesicle becomes exhausted, so also does the relative importance of the two first sources of the portal blood become reversed: - After a while the supply from the mesenteric branches comes to exceed the supply from the omphalic branches. Vitelline and Umbilical Veins, and Second Portal Circulation. The allantoic vesicle now appears. It carries out with it the two umbilical arteries, and brings back the two umbilical veins, of which the right one, however, soon disappears. H ^ Figs. 29 & 30.—diagram of the second portal circulation. vit. V left vitelline vein; umb. v., umbilical vein ; duct, ven., ductus venosus; com. br., com- municating branch between umbilical & vitelline veins. The left or persistent umbilical vein joins with the left or persistent * "Common Inferior Caval Trunk."- The two statements, sufficiently correct in ordinary human Anatomy, namely, - ^^that the hepatic veins open into the inferior vena cava," and '^^ that the inferior vena cava opens into the auricular portion of the heart," - are scarcelj^ correct in embryology. The correct statement is that both the hepatic veins and the inferior vena cava open into the left or persistent vitelline or omphalo-mesenteric vein, which latter vein it is that 02)e7is into the auricular portion of the heart. - The name " Common Inferior Caval Trunk " is here given to the portion of the left or persistent vitelline or omphalo-mesenteric vein above the opening into it of the above-named vessels. It is believed that the adoption of this term would lead to greater accuracy of description than generally prevails, without entailing the disadvantage of a too cumbrous description.