XVll with facts in hand, - over the ''parts*' as regards anatomy, and as occasion might present, here a little and there a little. Hence the interposition of contentional matter throughout the Tablets, whioli may occasionally be vexatious, it is feared, to those merely wishing to " read up " their anatomy in the shortest time. Leave is asked to present the Tablets, not only in the light of an anatomical treatise, but also in that of an Educational Thesis based on the facts brought out in the study of anatomy. Viewed from this standpoint, the various contentions, disputations, criticisms, or whatever they may be termed, which are interspersed throughout the work, will appear less out of place than they otherwise might be thought. There are tu-n hooks here^ - a Treatise, and a Thesis. Should " the tares " (?) have been gathered ? "With them might have been plucked some good ears of corn. They are left - with apologies - in the Thesis.* The book has been lightened, however, in the connection here discussed : Specialism in Medical Teaching and Examining," "Conditions leading to Success at in their own ivay. And they, thus get up the book-work, .supporting it on the slenderest substructure'of practical knowledge which will just prop it up for a time, - the 'crammer' cleverlv binding together the 'scaffolding of words,'- till the examination is past, - when the whole thing is cleared away, like the bunting of holiday rejoicings. Rejoicings, now that the student has past, that he will have nothing more to do with anatomy and physiology !" " Pity on the poor patients !" " But, if the student has not past, the 'liouse of cards,' &c. " We may be training a school of more or less scientific anatomists, but we are not insisting," writes the Lancet, "on such a curriculum of study, and on svich examinations, as will produce in the future well-grounded, thoroughly practical, and efficient medical men. Human anatomy must be studied from the human standpoint. . . . Those scientific anatomists who concern themselves with other vertebrates, and who, apparently, treat of an ideal evolutionised human body of their own creation, have no experience of the requirements of those who are destined to medical practice."— (Lancet, from January 20, 1894.) * The Tnesis is necessarily interlinked with the new matter, and thus frngmentarily scattered amidst the Notes on the lighter coloured paper.