348c T. COVERINGS OF THE BRAIN AND CORD. DUBA MATER. - A note to page 334. Is imperfectly divided by blood vessels and lacunar spaces into two layers, endosteal, and meningeal or supporting. The endosteal layer contains the vessels which nourish the cranial bones. Its outer surface is partly smooth and lined with the epidural endothelium bounding the subendosteal lymph spaces, and partly rough and closely adherent, specially to the sutures of the base of the skull and to the edges of the foramina, where it becomes continuous with the external pericranium. At the foramen magnum the endosteal layer is continued into the vertebral periosteum, and the meningeal layer into the dura mater of the cord ; between the two there is a wide space containing fat, connective tissue, and a plexus of veins, the homologue, not of the epidural, but of the interdural lymph spaces within the cranium. It is the metiingeal layer that forms the falx cerebri, the tentorium and falx cerebelli, and the diaphragma sellie. The diaphragma sellaj is a small circular fold, which constitutes a roof for the sella turcica. It almost completely encases the pituitary body, presenting but a small central opening for the passage of the infundibulum. Sinuses of the Diira Mater. These vessels differ considerably in character. Some are fairly tubular and lined by a continuous layer of endothelium, - though even in these the blood stream is broken up by a number of fine filaments, the chordae Willisii, which are most numerous at the point of separation of the endosteal and meningeal layers, - ^'.^.j lower part of the superior longitudinal sinus, and upper part of the straight sinus. Other channels are little more than irregular cavernous spaces grouped together in the largest arese of separation of the endosteal and meningeal layers of the dura mater, that is over the basilar groove, at the back and sides of the basi-sphenoid, the apex of the petrous bone, the root of the ali-sphenoid, and the floor of the sella turcica. The inner wall of even the cavernous sinus scarcely exists as a distinct lamella, though the internal carotid artery, the sixth nerve, and the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic lie internal to the principal part of the space, and form part, so to speak, of its inner boundary, Toreular Herophili. The mode of union of the superior longitudinal, lateral, and straight sinuses is somewhat variable. As a rule, the superior longitudinal sinus turns to the right, and opens into the right laternal sinus, while the straight sinus turns to the left, and opens into the left lateral sinus. It is exceptional to find the four vessels exactly symmetrical.