256i an aberrant subclavian artery, the right vertebral artery may arise from the innominaie : It is a persistent, but slightly developed right fourth arch, that gives off this branch, Here the inferior laryngeal nerve takes its usual recurrent course. These abnormalities may occur on the left side in connection with a right aortic arch. The case of the former abnormality so occurring, is particularly interesting. The left subclavian artery arises from the lower and back part of a right aortic arch by means of a kind of poxich which represents the junction of the persistent primitive dorsal aorta with the obliterated ductus arteriosus. Here the left recurrent laryngeal nerve loops round the arch thus constituted. Associated with this abnormality are numerous varieties in the closure of the ductus arteriosus. Varieties in Number and Position of the Branches arising from the Arch of the Aorta. " These branches may all be collected into one trunk, or they may arise separately from the aorta to the number of six. In the rare case of one trunk, we may suppose the origins of the right and lefr arches to be united, and the fourth left arch to be much shortened, thus bringing all the branches together, as naturally occurs in the horse, forming what is called the anterior aorta. "The cases of two vessels from the arch may be of two kinds: in the one, which is the commonest of all the varieties of aortic vessels in man, and is the normal condition in most apes, the left carotid is united with the innominate artery into a common stem ; in the other, which is exceedingly rare, there are two innominate trunks, as in the bird. " Three is the normal number of branches arising separately from the arch in man and some other mammals. There is, however, a rare form of variety in which th-e number is the same, and in which, as occurs naturally in some cetacea, the subclaviaus are both separate vessels, and the two carotids spring from a common stem in the interval between them. " The commonest form of the condition in Avhich there are four vessels taking origin from the aortic arch is that in which the left vertebral artery arises between the left carotid and subclavian arteries. The origin of four large arteries in the order right carotid, left carotid, left subclavian, and right subclavian, has just been referred to. A much rarer form is that in which the vessels arising from the arch are successively the right subclavian, the right carotid, the left carotid, and the left subclavian arteries. The number of five arteries proceeds from the separate origin of the right subclavian and left vertebi-al arteries. " In the case of six vessels proceeding from the single arch, of which there are a few instances described, the vessels were in the following order, which is that which might be anticipated from the mode of development, viz. : right subclavian, vertebral and carotid, left carotid, vertebral and subclavian arteries." [Quain's "Anatomy," 10th ed.]