243 THE LUNGS. Lipfht, porous, crepitant, elastic. Of a pinkish white at birth, of a mottled slate colour in the adult; the mottling be- coming darker & darker as age advances. Smooth & shininj, marked out by dark lines into polygonal spaces cor responding to the bases of the superficial lobules, which spaces are variously crossed by other more delicate lines. Conical in shape, and presents : - Outer Surface - Convex, deepest behind. Presents on either side a deep fissure oblique downwards & forwards from near apex to base, and, on the righfe , ":^e, another fissure oblique upwards & forwards from the middle of the foregoing. By these fissures the left lung is divided into two lobes, the right one into three; the inferior lobe is the largest in both lungs, and the middle lobe of the left side, the smallest of all. Inner Surface - Concave, deeply excavated in front, especially on the left side, to make room for the heart; presents the hilum a little above & behind its middle. Anterior Border - Thin, oblique, shorter than the posterior, deeply notched inferiorly on the left side so as to expose the pericardium; comes in contact with its f ellow behind middle of sternum, the pleurae alone being interposed. Posterior Bordor - Thick, rounded, vertical, longer than the anterior. Base - Broad, concave, oblique downwards & backwards ; rests upon diaphragm, and its circumference fits into the groove between the diaphragm & the ribs. Descends lower down on the left side than on the right. Apex - Passes up into root of neck an inch or an inch & a half above first rib, and, under cover of the scaleni, comes into close contact with first & second portions of sub. clavian artery. The Eight Lung is the shortest in consequence of the diaphragm ascending higher on the right side than on the left; the broadest owing to the inclination of the heart to the left; and somewhat the largest. - The Left Lung is the longest, narrowest, and somewhat the smallest. THE ROOT of the LUNG Consists of the bronchus, pulmonary & bronchial vessels, lymphatic vessels & glands, and pulmonary plexuses of t! e pneumogastric & sympathetic, which parts are all enclosed in a pleural sheat - , and are bound togetlier by areolar tissue in the following order: From Before Backwards Oft Either Side: - Pulmonary veins with the anterior pulmonary plexus ; Pulmonary artery ; Bronchus with the bronchial vessels, lymphatics vessels glands, and the posterior pubnonary plexus. From Below Upwards Oil Right Side - Pulmonary veins, pulmonary artery, bronchus, with &c. On Lejt Side - Pulmonary veins, bronchus, pulmonary artery. THE KOOT OF THE RIGHT LUNG — Lies behind the superior vena cava «& the ri-'ht aur icle; the vena azygos major arches over it from ° behind. THE ROOT OF THE LEFT LUNG — Passes beneath the arch of the aorta; behind it are the descending portion of the arch, the oesophagus & the thoracic duct. ~ The i oot of each lung has also in front of it the phrenic nerve, and behind it, the pneumogastnc.