228g to convey to the ganglion its sensory and motor roots from the gustatory nerve and the chorda tympani respectively. The anterior branches of communication are now considered to be branches of distribution emanating from the ganglion, and running for a time in the course of the lingual fibres. A diminutive sublingual ganglion is described by some anatomists on the filaments passing from the lingual nerve to the sublingual gland. And, as in the case of certain other ganglia, nerve-cells are said to be found in the part of the nerve adjacent to the ganglion. [The ganglia would thus seem to be less definite structures than was formerly believed, - merely principal collections of nerve-cells, which latter may be more or less scattered, as in the above instance. The cells of the gangUa on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves may spread more or less into the sensory root, or even into the spinal nerve itself. The lenticular ganglion is sometimes smaller than usual, probably from its nerve- cells being distributed along the nerves connected with it.—Quain.] The inferior dental nerve has not unfrequently an additional root arising directly from the Gasserian ganglion, and remaining separate from the main trunk till both have entered the inferior dental canal. This is the lesse?- dental nerve of Sapolini. Otic Ganglion. Since it has been the fashion to base so-called precise Anatomy on physiological data, the statements of scientists in regard to the roots and communications of the otic ganglion have become somewhat confusing. The following is simply transcribed from the most authoritative expose of the subject, the last edition of Quain's Anatomy. It will be noticed that the tensor palati and tensor tympani muscles are no longer stated to be supplied by the facial nerve, but by the nerve to the internal pterygoid, - the branch from this nerve to the tensor tympani muscle passing through a small oval opening in the Fi(?, 449D.—THK OTIC GANGLION AND ITS COMMUNICATIONS. {Quaiii after Emibcr.)