xvi It will be seen that the Author contends for the supremacy of simple careful dissection in the dissecting room as the criterion and gauge of excellence in regard to the kind of anatomy to be applied by the medical man to medical and surgical purposes. Dissectional anatomy, he maintains, is to be looked upon as a science in itself, independent of, and superior to, the fascinating niceties of the scientist. It is the only form of anatomy which serves directly the objects of the medical man. It is also the only form of anatomy which has a history at its back, - and a history of noble self- sacrifice and of worthy service rendered. Alone, to the Author s mind, it constitutes Anatomy in the professional sense. Everyone really familiar with the dissected parts may^ it is contended, rely upon success at examinations, - and in after-life, as far as the foundations of medicine and surgery are concerned. It is the Nemesis of book-work and "cram," the necessary outcome of Specialism, that is condemning to failure the undoubtedly earnest - though misguided - efforts of students and teachers alike. * But we are losing our guiding principles now. The educational problems fast coming to the frontf required to be argued * "Mr. Pridgin Teale's table of the rise of rejections, taken every fifth year, is as follows :— 1861 rz-i per cent. 1866 14-5 1871 16-6 1876 22-2 1881 30-0 1886 34-8 1891 39-3 1895 41-9 " ' The Need for lief arm of the Medical Examination System.'—(Pridgin Teale, F.R.S., Crown Member of the General Medical Council)." TJie official retiu-ns presented to the Royal College of Surgeons of England for the years 1896 and 1897 show the average of rejections at the second examination to be, for 1896, 42'7, and, for 1897, over 50 per cent, at each one of the Tour quarterly examinations. For those going up in anatomy only, the percentage of rejections was 56"3 in 1896. At the Fellowship Examination held in May, 1897, the rejections exceeded 70 per cent. " At least one-third of those who begin their medical studies," says the leading article (Address to Students) in the Students' number of the Medical Times and Hospital Gazette for the present year, " retire from the field before they have fulfilled their course." It is within the Author's distinct observation that the proportion of the complete and irrevocable failures at the stage of Anatomy and Physiology is now vastly on the increase. " We are brought face to face with a real and growijig difficulty, and must come to a deadlock, unless some satisfactory measure of reform in our method of education be devised."—(Macalister.) t lie " Dissectional Anatomy & Paper Anatomy," in Deep Origins of the Cranial Nerves. " Men leave more and more everything that ties them in any way. Why should they be troubled with supervision that cannot help them V Tliey can best get vp the hook-u'Ofk