275 LONG EXTENSOR MUSCLES of the BACK - 5th Layer MULTIPIDUS SPINJE - (See Figs. 491 & 492) — Is the innermost and deepest portion of the musculo-tendinous mass of the long extensor muscles of the back. It lies in the vertebral groove beneath the erector spina; and the longissimus dorsi, and extends along the whole length of the spine connecting the lateral to the postero-median processes of the vertebrjje from the sacrum to the axis. It is reinforced in the upper dorsal & cervical regions by the semispinales dorsi & colli, which may fairly be considered as its accessory fibres. Its origins are homologous in the several regions of spine ; they are as follows : Sacral Region - feacral groove and deep surface of tendon of erector spinse ; posterior superior spine of ilium & posterior sacro-iliac ligament. Lumbar Region - Upper and inner part of the mammillary tubercles on back of superior articular processes. Dorsal Region - Back of transverse processes. Cervical Region - Articular processes of the four lower cervical vertebra}. Its insertions are into the whole series of the spinous processes and the adjoining portion of the laminae; the length of the individual fasciculi varying, some joining contiguous vertebra, others passing up to the 2nd, ord, or 4th vertebra above. Semispinales Muscles - {See Fig. 487) — Are additional slips superadded to the preceding, on the surface of which they lie. Semispinalis Dorsi - Transverse processes of the middle dorsal vertebne from the 10th to the oth. Spinous processes of the four upper dorsal & two last cervical vertebra;. Semispinalis Colli - Transverse processes of the four upper dorsal vertebrae. Spinous processes of the cervical vertebrae from the axis to the 5th. Rotatores Spinse - Eleven pairs; lie in the dorsal region beneath the multifidus spinse, of which they form the deepest fibres. - Upper & back part of transverse processes. Lower margin & posterior surface of lamin£e,and roots of spinous processes. Spinalis Colli - (See Fig. 491)— Similar to spinalis dorsi, and as intimately connected with the complexus as is the latter with the longissimus dorsi. - Spinous processes of the one or two last cervical & the one or two upper dorsal vertebrae. Spinous processes of the axis and of one or two vertebra; below. - Is often wanting. All the above muscles are supplied by the internal branches of the posterior divisions of the cervical, dorsal, & lumbar nerves; the complexus is also supplied by the suboccipital & great occipital nerves.