152p to the principal nucleus, with which it is connected by a stalk of grey matter. Motor root- fibres to both nerves ascend along this stalk to the floor of the fourth ventricle, and then turn outwards to their two respective destinations. The funiculus solitarius (F.S., Fig. 358h ; Xa, Fig. 358a) is a longitudinal bundle of white fibres surrounded by gelatinous grey matter with a good many nerve-cells. Inferiorly, this fascicle seems to lose itself in the cord; superiorly, it is seen to give off distinct bundles of nerve-roots [motor (Testut, Duval)] to the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves.* From the above deep origins the root-fibres of both nerves are seen to pass forwards and outwards through the medulla, separating the middle and posterior arese shown in Fig. 195. Hjrpoglossal Werve (See Figs. 358a, b, k, ^* l).—Its nucleus is a long column of nerve-cells lying in the lower or closed part of the medulla, below and external to the central canal, and, in the upper or open part, on the lower and innermost part of the floor of the fourth ventricle internally to the inferior fovea. The root-fibres pass down- wards and outwards to the groove between the anterior pyramid and the olivary body, separating the anterior and middle area of the central part of the medulla (Fig. 358l). Fifth Nerve (See Figs. 358a, b, i, j, k, l, m, Sf n).—A preliminary remark seems called for in regard to the deep origins of the fifth nerve. No less than eight figures, - sections reviewing the greater part of the medulla, pons, and mesocephalon, - are required to exhibit, at the various levels, the prolonged course of its descending and ascending sensory roots. Here the abundance of the necessary illustrations may, without a word of warning, embarrass rather than otherwise. In the study of the deep origins of the fifth nerve, the student should again fix his attention, first on Fig. 358a, and then on Fig. 358i, These are the two key figures. The fifth nerve has four nuclei, one motor nucleus (see right half of Fig. 358a) corresponding to the smaller or motor portion of the nerve, and three sensory (see left half of same figure) corresponding to the larger or sensory portion. The motor nucleus (V.M.) lies beneath the grey matter of the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, a short distance from the middle line, but internally to, and deeper than, the middle sensory nucleus, below referred to. The fibres of the motor root are joined superiorly by those of the descending sensory root (V.D.). The sensory nuclei may be termed upper, middle, and lower. The upper sensory nucleus is a collection of nerve-cells lying on the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius externally to the nuclei of the third and fourth nerves (farther from the middle line in Fig. 358a). The descending sensory root passes down on the outer side of, and somewhat dorsally to, the aboye-mentioned nuclei, forming a marked feature in the transverse sections through the mesocephalon (V.D. in Fig. 358d, d. V. in Fig. 358j). This sensory root joins the upper part of the motor root. * This nucleus is placed in Fig. 358a, on the left side, as a sensory nucleus. The point is of course debatable, as is almost everything in physiology, and of course in Anatomy, as soon as Anatomy is made to rest on physiological research. The difficulty of distinguishing between the nuclei of a mixed nerve is evidently considerable. The Author has followed the views of Duval. The serial sequence explained goes a long way to show the motor character of the fasciculus solitarius.