152t nuclei are then shown as they begin to turn outwards; but they have been cut short, as otherwise they would have had to cross the structures previously named, further adding to the complication of the figure. The course is clearly shown in the figure of the elongated nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve, as traced in the lower, or covered, part of the medulla, and in the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, and lying in succession from below upwards ventro-externally, externally, dorsally, and dorso-internally, both to the ascending root of^ the fifth nerve and to the nucleus of the spinal accessory. DISSECTIONAL ANATOMY AND PAPER ANATOMY. The whole range of anatomy, as now understood by many, could probably afford no better illustration than that presented by the description of the deep origins of the cranial nerves, of what, for the medical student and the medical man, anatomy, to the Author's mind, should not be. No problem can well be conceived more interesting than that of the deep, or real, origins of the cranial nerves, or as to which the latest data of successful research should be placed more fully, and more carefully, before the intelligent reader. There is no shadow of a suggestion, therefore, of setting the subject aside. But the questions are pressed. Do such points belong to the kind of anatomy which should be placed side by side with the anatomy of the biceps, or the brachial artery? Do they belong to that kind of anatomy which Avill teach the student to dissect and to learn things with his own eyes and his own hands? Do they belong to that kind of anatomy which, presented as anatomy, will do him any good? Or do they belong to that kind of anatomy (so-called) which, being learnt only from plates and diagrams, will take the student away from the dissecting room, and injure him as a practical man, and even ruin many - (if there is much anatomy of the kind; and there is more and more of it now-a-days) - in regard to the mere question of passing examinations ? Expressions of double significance have never led to good. If anatomy is to mean two things, - dissecting-room anatomy, and paper anatomy, - then one, clearly dissecting-room anatomy, must of a necessity be put in the background; for speculation is always more attractive than hard work. This is taking place before our eyes. What is the meaning, otherwise, of the phrase " common or garden anatomy," which one now hears so often.