MUSCLES of the FACE—Srd Tablet. MUSCLES of the MOUTH. Orbicularis Oris - Consists of three portions: Labial ok Marginal Portion - Continued uninterruptedly from one lip to the othei round the commissures of the mouth. Facial Portion - Central fibres decussate with, the others are directly continuous with, fibres of buccinator. Accessory Portion - Consists for the upper lip of four fasciculi, the musculi acces- sorii orbicularis superiores, arising from superior maxilla opposite incisor teeth & from septum of the nose; and for lower lip, of two fasciculi, the musculi acces- sorii orbicularis inferiores, from inferior maxilla near the canine teeth. Inserted into this muscle and into the integument covering it from the middle of the upper lip to the middle of the lower lip, are the following mu^clcp (the last excepted), which all blend more or less with each other : - Levator Labii Superioris Alseque Nasi - Upper part of nasal process of supe. ior maxilla. Levator Proprius Labii Superioris - Superior maxillary & malar bones close to margin of orbit. Levator Anguli Oris or Musculus Caninus - Canine fossa just below rtifra. orbital foramen. Zygomaticus IVCinor - Lower and front part of malar bone. Zygomaticus Major - Malar bone near zygomatic suture. Buccinator - Outer surface of alveolar processes of superior & inferior maxillae corres- ponding to the molar teeth, and from pterygo-maxillary ligament (which latter is a fibrous band extending from apex of internal pterygoid plate to posterior extremity of mylo-hyoid ridge of lower jaw, and which gives attachment poster-jj iorly to superior constrictor of pharynx). Its fibres are continuous with those of facial portion of orbicularis oris, the middle ones decussating, the superior & inferior ones passing directly into corres- ponding lip, Risorius - Fascia over parotid gland & masseter. - Is often described as the upper part of platysma myoides. Depressor Anguli Oris or Triangularis Oris - External oblique line of lower jaw externally to mental foramen. Depressor Labii Inferioris or Quadratus Menti - External oblique lino of lower jaw between symphysis & mental foramen. Levator Labii Inferioris or Levator Menti - Incisor fossa of lower jaw. ]| Intes-ument of ohin close to median line.