348pp Substantia Nigra. - This is a band of darkly pigmented grey matter, crescentic on section, pierced internally by the roots of the 3rd nerve, and which extends from the pons Varolii to the tnbercula quadrigemina, separating the crusta of the cerebral peduncles from the tegmentum. Its edges reach the surface at the lateral and oculomotor sulci. From its under surface numerous prolongations of the grey matter pass into the crusta. The crusta is divided into a larger middle, and smaller inner and outer portions The fibres of the middle portion are the continuation of the pyramidal fibres of the medulla and pons; they are prolonged into the anterior half of the posterior limb of the inner capsule just behind the genu, and radiate towards the convolutions of the motor area. The fibres of the inner part of the crura pass through the anterior limb of the internal capsule, and radiate towards the convolutions of the frontal lobe. The fibres of the outer part of the crura traverse the posterior part of the inner capsule, and radiate towards the convolutions of the occipital and temporal lobes. The superior peduncles of the cerebellum descend from the lower part of the optic thalamus into the tegmentum of the crus cerebri, and, having decussated in the formatio reticularis, emerge from beneath the testes as two rounded bundles joined together by the valve of Vieussens. They descend to the dentate nucleus and the lower part of the cerebellum. The corpora quadrigemina are made up of grey matter with a superficial covering of white fibres. Thebrachia of the nates join the external geniculate body, and are continued into the outer part of the optic tract. The brachia of the testes are connected with the internal geniculate body, and probably join the inner part of the optic tract, but without becoming connected with the optic nerve; they go to form the commissural fibres of Gudden. Fig. 599.—origin of the optic nerve. (Testut.) 8 and 9, anterior and posterior quadrigeminal bodies with 10 and 10', their respective branchia 5 and 6, external and internal geniculate bodies ; 7, optic tract. The other indications are deleted ; the figure will be found fully explained, p. 348vv. See p. 228d.