348tt future sella turcica, into a short funnel-shaped downgrowth, the infundibulum. Then - front of the infundibulum there appears the pouch of the hypophysis, or Rathke's pouch. This is an evagination of the oral sinus, in front of the pharyngeal membrane, which makes its way upwards in front of the foregoing, perforating the future ali-sphenoid. As it deepens, it becomes constricted off as a small sac, which is for a time connected by a narrow duct with the oral cavity, - the communication disappearing later on in man, though it remains throughout life in some of the lower vertebrates, such as selachians. The evaginations above described become, the one, the posterior or smaller, and the other, the anterior or larger, lobe of the pituitary body. Prosencephalon. - Its extremely rapid growth backwards has already been referred to. This part of the brain overlaps the optic thalami in the third month, the tubercula quadrigemina in the fifth month, and, in man, the cerebellum a little later on. This growth of the hemispheres is marked by a twisting of the hemispheres upon themselves, - whence the twist of the anterior crura of the fornix and peduncles of Vick d'Azyr, - by the infolding of their walls into deep fissures with, and into more superficial sulci without corresponding internal projections, and by the development of a system of commissures, such as the corpus callosum and fornix. The first fissure to appear is the fissure of Sylvius. Starting from about the middle of the lower margin of each hemisphere, it passes upwards and backwards, indenting the cavity of the corresponding lateral ventricle; - the sides of the indentation subsequently thickening to form the corpus striatum. The next fissures to appear are the hippocampal, and the fissura pallii or choroidea. The former gives rise in its posterior part to the hippocampus major. The latter gives rise to the so-called great transverse fissure, or fissure of Bichat. What happens is this:-The two hemispheres, or "mantle" part of the brain, as they are sometimes termed, grow backwards, - everywhere invested with pia mater,-and overlap the upper part and sides of the " stalk," or future ganglionic portion, - this being also invested with pia mater. It is the edges of the resulting cup-like depression that become the lips of the so-called transverse fissure ; the layers of pia mater, brought into contact, fuse, and form the choroid plexuses and velum interpositum. (See note on previous page.) Changes subsequently occur here similar to those that have been described in the roof both of the metencephalon and of the thalamencephalon. The roof of the neural tube is attenuated into a single layer of epithelial cells closely united to the pia mater, which latter, as it makes its way into the ventricular cavities in the shape of vascular tufts, remains covered by the epithelium. Removal of the tufts necessarily tears away the epithelium as well; and then; but then only, is the ventricular cavity really open. The calcarine fissure appears later on on the inner aspect of the evagination of the lateral ventricle which forms the occipital lobe; it gives rise to the calcar avis. Finally, there appears the external parieto-occipital fissure, which marks the separation between the parietal and occipital lobes. The corpus callosum, the columns of the fornix, and the septum lucidum result from adhesions between the contiguous inner Avails of the hemispheres. The septum' lucidum is the attenuated remains of a portion of such contiguous walls,-the so-called fifth ventricle resulting from the enclosure of a part of space between the two hemispheres. The correlated changes in the shape of the lateral ventricles necessarily bring about a narrowing of the communication, - foramen of Monro, - between these and the third ventricle.