348ss the removal of the epithelial layer, and thus opens up the cavity of the fourth ventricle, - the rhomboidal sinus of the older authors being thus produced.* Epencephalon. - The cerebellum first appears as a mere transverse ridge, of which the middle part is soon distinguished as the vermiform process. The lateral part s then outgrow the foregoing, and become the hemispheres. The transverse furrows appear shortly afterwards. Mid-Brain.—This is the part that changes least. But, whereas, through the flexures above referred to, it occupies at an early date the highest part of the encephalou, and forms the prominent parietal eminence, it is afterwards covered over by the rapidly expanding cerebrum and cerebellum, and thus becomes crowded down to the base of the brain. Thalamencephalon. - Its roof evolves very much like that of the metencephalon. It also remains epithelial, and similarly unites with the super-jacent pia mater to form the central part of the choroid plexuses or velum interpositum,t the avulsion of which, as it similarly involves the removal of the epithelial layer adherent to it, opens up the cavity of the subjacent third ventricle. Apart from the optic thalami and the optic vesicles further referred to in connection with the development of the eye, there grow out from the walls of the thalamencephalon two appendages of problematical significance, the pineal gland and the pituitary body. The Pineal Gland, or Epiphysis^ is evolved from the back part of the roof of the thalamencephalon as an evagination, which passes upwards and backwards In man and mammals it becomes a solid outgrowth, glandular in appearance, and relatively un- important. Without attempting to follow the very varying evolutions of the pineal gland in the vertebrate series, it may be mentioned that it acquires considerable importance in the lower vertebrates, such as selachians, where, perforating the cranium, it reaches the dermal surface. Its structure, in some reptiles, seems even to warrant its description as an unpaired parietal eye. Here appearances seem to indicate an optic nerve expanding into a kind of retina, with, in front of it, a lense-like arrangement covered in by trans- lucent dermal scales. The apparatus seems, further, to be influenced by light. The Pituitary Body., or Hypophysis, has a double origin. On the one hand, the floor of the thalamencephalon thins out and evaginates downwards, in the situation of the * It is taught by some scientists that the fourth ventricle is formed, not entirely by the metencephalon, but in its lower part by the metencephalon, and its upper part by the epencephalon In such case what is above said of the roof of the metencephalon would apply also to the back part of the roof of the epencephalon. t The velum interpositum, with the continuous choroid plexuses of the lateral ventricles and their descending cornua, are said, in human adult anatomy, to enter the brain through the great transverse fissure. Centrally this is not quite correct. The central part of the transverse fissure is no fissure at 11 in the proper sense of the term. There is no proper infolding here of the brain substance. It is the extension backwards of the hemisipheres that causes the inclusion of the central part of the choroid plexus within the cerebral hemispheres, and gives rise to the appearance of a transverse fissure. Not so, however, at the side of the brain. Here, as will be seen further on, there is actual infolding, both of the brain tself, and of its piamatral covering.