228 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. Commences at bifurcation of common carotid opposite upper border of thyroid cartilage & in the so-called superior carotid triangle. It is at first very superficial, being covered only by thin anterior border of sterno-mastoid, platysma & fascia, and lying on outer side of, & rather behind, external carotid artery. May be divided into cervical, petrous, cavernous & cerebral portions. CERVICAL PORTION — Ascends vertically to carotid foramen, passing (as does also external carotid) Beneath - Digastric & stylo-hyoid muscles, occipital artery, hypoglossal nerve, & parotid gland, - then ascending beneath, and being separated from external carotid by, Stylo-glossus & -pharyngeus & the styloid process, the glosso-pharyn- geal nerve and sometimes the pharyngeal branch of the vagus.- Its deep relations are; j On Inner Side - Pharynx, tonsil, ascending pharyngeal art., superior laryngeal n. i Behind - Rectus capitis anticus major & transverse processes of the three upper i cervical vertebrsBj -superior cervical ganglion & main trunk I of sympathetic, and superior laryngeal nerves, ! Behind & Exteknally - Internal jugular vein, and, lying between & behind the i two vessels, the pneumogasti'ic nerve. Usually gives off no branches. PETROUS PORTION — Ascends in carotid canal in front of tympanum, being surrounded 1 by carotid & cavernous plexuses, and then curves forwards & inwards. - Sends a small Tympanic Branch - To tympanum through a minute foramen in pos- terior wall of carotid canal* CAVERNOUS PORTION — Ascends to sphenoid bone, and then runs forwards in caver. nous groove, lying in inner wall of cavernous siuus, by lining membrane of which it is covered, and being, on its outer side, crossed by 6th nerve and more distantly related to 3rd, 4th, & ophthalmic branch of the 5th, ' Gives off: I Ophthalmic Artery - Vide p. 209. Arterise Receptaculi - Several, small, to walls of cavernous sinus & dura mater. CEREBRAL PORTION — Ascends between optic nerve & anterior clinoid process, perfo- rates dura mater of roof of sinus, receives sheath from arachnoid, and after giving oflf Post. Communicating & Ant. Choroid, divides opposite inner extremity of fissure of Sylvius into i Ant. & Middle Cerebral - Vide next Tablet. Ant. Choroid Artery - Arises from internal carotid, or sometimes from middle cerebral. Backwards through lateral part of transverse fissure of brain to descen- ding cornu of lateral ventricle, and supplies choroi d plexus.