25 Ou LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN.* Interspinous &. Intertransverse Ligaments, and Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor Muscle. The above ligaments result from the regression of the muscles of same name. The muscles are found in the most movable portions of the spine, i.e., in the cervical and the lumbar regions : elsewhere they are more or less replaced by the above-named ligaments. The rectus capitis posticus minor may be considered the uppermost and largest of the interspinous muscles. Lateral Occipito-Atloid Ligament, and Rectus Lateralis Muscle. The above are the continuation between the atlas and the occipital bone of the series of the intertransverse muscles. The highest anterior representative of the series remains fleshy, and forms the rectus lateralis muscle; the corresponding posterior representative becomes tendinous, and forms the above-named ligament. The inter- transversales muscles are replaced by ligaments in the dorsal region, and usually more or less so in the lumbar region. This may be the place to remark that the rectus capitis posticus major is the upper part of the spinalis colli, and that the superior oblique is the highest segment of the multifidus spinte. The homology of the inferior oblique muscle is still unsettled. Intervertebral Discs. The central part of these represents the remains of the notochord. In many birds a little disc or meniscus of cartilage is found in this sitxiation, thinned to perforation at its centre. The central perforation in the meniscus is traversed, in the chick, by a ligament, which contains the undoubted remains of the intervertebral portion of the notochord Suspensory Occipito-Odontoid Ligament. This is the modified sheath of the notochord as it passes from the odontoid process to the basi-occipital. Odontoid Process of the Axis Is the detached body of the atlas. The following reasons may be given in support of the statemerxt: - The process is traversed by the notochord on its way to the basi-occipital and the basi-sphenoid. Between this process and the body of the axis there is, in the embryo, a well-marked swelling of the notochord; and in man, even up to an advanced age, a cartilaginous nodule may be found in the situation named ; in many mammals an epiphysial plate develops in the same situation. The odontoid process "Condensed from Mr. P.land Sutton's " Li^^ainents : Tneir Nature and Morpholof/y."