223 FIRST or OLFACTORY NERVE (Dissectional description; see new description, page 228c ) Arises by three roots. THE THREE ROOTS-Are the: External or Long Root—A rises from \\\^ posterior boundary of the fissure of Sylvius. It passes forwards and inwards along the anterior margin of the locus perforatua anticns. Internal or Short Root—Arises from the posterior and inner part of the frontal lobe. It passes forwards & outward", and joins the foregoing root just above the origin of the middle or grey root. Middle or Grey Root—Begins in a pyrai/iidal emineoce, the car^incula mammilla- tis, of the grey matter of the posterior part of the frontal lobe, and is continued upon the upper surface of the nerve with a few white fibres derived from the corpus striatum. The three roots coalesce and form a prismoid band, the OLFACTORY PROCESS, — which passes forwards in a deep sulcus along the side of lon- gitudinal fissure, and expands into the OLFACTORY BULB, — from the under surface of which are given off about twenty TERMINAL BRS., — which pass through the foramina in the cribriform plate of the eth. moid, and — forming three sets distributed respectively over the roof of the nose, over the upper third of the septum, and over the superior middle turbinated bones — proceed between the fibrous & mucous layers of the Schneiderian membrane, ramify and uni- te and form a plexus with narrow elongated meshes, and probably terminate in the deep processes of the olfactory cells of Schultze. These latter cells are spindle-shaped nucleated bodies, which stand vertically in great numbers among the columnar epithelial cells of the olfactory region; their extremities are continued into two thread-like processes, one of which terminates abruptly on a level with the free extremities of the epithelial cells, while the other passes downwards towards the attached surface of the mucous membrane. The olfactory nerve contains a large pi'oportion of the grey matter, and is soft and pulpy. Its filaments are deficient in the white substance of Schwann, and are granular and nucleated like tho gelatinous rerve-fibres of Remak.