256 GANGLIATED CORDS & GANGLIA of SYMPATHETIC GANGLIATED CORDS — on each side & alonpr the whole length of spinal column, con- verging inferiorly upon the coccyx in the ganglion impar, and being prolonged superiorly into the head along internal carotid artery. They are usually single, sotnetimes double, occasionally wanting here & there. Relatively to the size of the ganglia they are largest in the dorsal region. They are divided into : Csrvical Portion - J-l^e3 in front of transverse processss of cervical vertebrae behind internal jugular vein, and presents three ganglia (Yide Cervical portion of Sym- pathetic). Thoracic Portion - ^^^^ '"^ front of heads of ribs & intercostal vessels, beneath pleurae, on outer side of venae azygos, at first at a small distance from, and then close to, bodies of vertebrae. It presents eleven or twelve ganglia. Lumbar Portion - Penetrates into abdomen, on right side through a small opening in right crus of diaphragm, on left side either through aortic opening or through a small separate opening in left crus. It lies in front of bodies of vertebrae on inner side of psoas, behind inferior vena cava on the right side, behind abdominal aorta on the left. It presents four or five ganglia, Sacral Portion - Lies in front of sacrum on inner side of anterior sacral foramina, and, converging towards its fellow inferiorly, usually ends in the ganglion impar. PREVERTEBRAL GANGLIA — Usually three cervical, eleven or twelve dorsal, four or five lumbar, four sacral, one coccygeal. More or less oval or triangular in shape, and elongated from above downwards. Cervical - Vide cervical portion of sympathetic. Dorsal - Lie most of them in front of heads of ribs, the nine or ten first at a little distance from, the two or three last close to, bodies of corresponding vertebrae; occasionally one or two ganglia lie opposite the corresponding intervertebral foramina. They are smaller than the cervical & lumbar. The first one is the largest and is often blended with the inferior cervical. The last one is usually stellate in shape, and is sometimes blended with the first lumbar. - They present: Roots, or Branches op Communication with the Dorsal Nerves - Usually two in number: - Either both ascend obliquely upwards & outwards to join the dorsal nerve above just before its bifurcation, or one ascends as above de- scribed, and the other descends to join the dorsal nerve below in corres- ponding situation. Sometimes one or two ganglia have a third root resulting from bifurcation of one of the roots to adjoining dorsal nerves, and even, occasionally, an additional root to second dorsal nerve above. Internal Branches, or Branches op Distribution - Those from five or six upper gang- lia are small & greyish; they mainly supply thoracic aortsS^So its branches, & bodies of vertebrae & their ligaments; those from third & fourth ganglia join posterior pulmonary plexus. Those from six or seven lower ganglia are lar.^er & whiter; they give ofi" a few small branches to aorta, and join to form the great, lesser, & last splanchnic nerves (V.Solar Plexus). Lumbar - Bather larger & more distinct than the dorsal, and situated at a greater distance from the corresponding intervertebral foramina, the first one often lying opposite body of second lumbar vertebra, and the last one opposite sacro-vertebral articula- tion. - They present: Roots, or Branches op Communication with the Lumbar Nerves - Two or three for each. Are longer & more slender than those of dorsal ganglia, and pass beneath the fibrous arches of psoas in company with lumbar arteries & veins. Internal Branches, or Branches op Distribution - Give a few twigs to bodies of ver- tebrae & their ligaments, and assist in forming the aortic & hypogastric plexuses. Sacral - Smaller than the dorsal & lumbar, and diminish in size as they descend ; lie close to inner side of anterior sacral forainiaa, those of opposite sides approximating as they descend, and usually blend in front of coccyx in a median ganglion, the coccygeal ganglion or ganglion impar. - They present Roots, or Branches of Communication with the Sacral Nerves - Usually two for each ganglion ; are short & small. Internal Branches, or Branches of Distribution - Those of the two upper ganglia join inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexus; the others descend upon the arteria sacra media, and supply the sacrum & coccyx & their ligaments, and the coccygeal gland,