xix EXTRACTS FROM PREFACE TO THE TENTH EDITION. There is such a thing as damaging a book in re-editing it. It is refreshing, in this connection, to read, in the preface to the last Edition of Gray's " Anatomy," that the work " is intended for students of surgery rather than for the scientific anatomist," and that " it is practical rather than abstract and theoretical." In thus taking the lead in the long-looked-for return to what, in the Author's opinion, Anatomy should be, the Editor of Gray is again doing good public service. Is it looking for too much, - it may perhaps be asked, - to hope that certain small additions made here and there to this noble book, under the influence, undoubtedly, of rece.itly prevailing views, may, to use the words of a great teacher, be put back ere long in " their proper place of unimportance," - that is, removed from future issues? As was well said in a recent article in the Lancet, anatomical descriptions pro])erly represent averages. Is it not then misleading, - indeed, calculated to defeat the practical purpose aimed at. - to include among the brandies of arteries and veins certain insignificant offshoots occasionally found, or said to be found, by some exhaustive writer or other ? It is submitted that embii/ological studies tend to such additions. The examination of the various vanishing parts of the embryo, and the occasional persistence of certain of these, - (as in the case of the vas aherrans liumeri explaining the high division of the brachial artery, and its exceptional relation to the median nerve, and of the vas aherrans aortcE explaining the origin of the right subclavian artery as a fourth branch of the aortic arch) - lend a misleading interest to other, quite exceptional, cases of a similar type, - an interest, indeed, proportionate to their very rarity, - that is to say, fictitious. It is not practical forethought, - much as this is pleaded, - which is here brought into play, but the mere " collectioneering" instinct. It is earnestly submitted that the extended study of " varieties" is a source of weakness, not of strength, to the practising surgeon. The same may be said of the morphological work now pressed far too much to the front for practical purposes. Ma croscopical Embryology.—The portion of the science of development which mainly throws light upon, and may therefore be considered, in a way, the basis of, advanced Anatomy, is that which refers to the larger processes of evolution con- nected with the throwing into shape of the various ])ermanent structures. Neither do