XIV vSome of the Tablets of the earlier complete editions have been re-introduced, such as those on the deep muscles of the back,-these illustrated from Bourgery and Jacob,-the female genital organs, &c. Thus the Tablets again cover practically the whole ground of dissectional anatomy. / The brain has been recast, as explained in the preliminary remarks appended to that subject. Being more than doubled in size, the entire Avork is now divided into three Parts published separately: - I., The Bones; II., The Limbs, Abdomen. & Pelvis; III., The Thorax, and the Head & Neck. Facilities have again been provided for the easy division of each volume into segments of a convenient size for carrying in the coat pocket. To this effect, the several groups of subjects, - " Anterior Triangle of the Neck." "Axilla; front of arm." "Orbit,'' &c.,-have each been arranged in what bookbinders call a ■• section ; " and if the volume be opened someAvhat forcibly between the front or title page of one section, and the lost page of the preceding section, it will easily be divided at this point by simply cutting the bookbinder's threads or tapes. And each section will be found to constitute a pamphlet, which, folded in two, will bear carrying about without falling to pieces. The advantages of a small book are thus added to some extent to those of a book of larger size This arrangement has involved, however, some repetitions and a few omissions, the latter generally unimportant, it is believed, and mostly remedied in the Appendix, The Authors have written throughout for the medical student intending to become a practitioner. A distinct principle runs through this Edition of the Tablets, - the dissociation, and separate presentation, on the one hand, of the practical, or " dissectional " anatomy, and, on the other, of the " advanced," or " scientific," - or, as it is now authoritatively called (Christopher Heath) " transcendental" - anatomy recently introduced, - e.g., on the one hand, of the anatomy " that can be seen and handled,'" and, on the other, of "that which cannot." The former is presented in the Tablets proper. The latter, or the newer matter, is presented in the Notes on lighter-coloured paper, - these to be re-written from year to year, as may be required. Here important additions have been made to the abdominal viscera, the cranial nerves, the muscles of the larynx, &c. The division is found, in the Author's classes, to markedly facilitate both the practical work and the abstract study^