256k " The Ascending Aorta is about two inches in length. It commences at the upper part of the left ventricle, and on a level with the lower border of the third costal cartilage behind the left half of the sternum; it passes obliquely upwards, forwards, and to the right in the direction of the heart's axis, as high as the upper border of the second right costal cartilage, describing a slight curve in its course, and being situated, when distended, about a quarter of an inch behind the posterior surface of the sternum. This portion of the aorta is contained in the cavity of the pericardium, and, together with the pulmonary artery, is invested in a tube of serous membrane, continued on to them from the surface of the heart. The Ascending Aorta is covered at its commencement by the trunk of the coronary pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix, and, higher up, is separated f.oui the sternum by the pericardium, the right pleura, and anterior margin of right lung, some areolar tissue and the remains of the thymus gland ; behind, it rests upon the root of the right lung and left auricle. On the right side, it is in relation with the superior vena cava and right auricle ; on the left side, with the pulmonary artery." " The Arch, or Transverse Aorta, commences at the upj^er border of the second chondro-sternal articulation of the right side, and passes from right to left and from before backwards, to the left side of the loioer border of the fourth dorsal vertebra behind. Its upper border is usually about an inch below the upper margin of the sternum. Its anterior surface is covered by the pleura? and lungs and the remains of the thymus gland, and crossed towards the left side by the left pneumo-gastric and phrenic nerves, and superior cardiac branches of the left sympathetic, and by the left superior intercostal veins. Its posterior surface lies on the trachea just above its bifur- cation, on the great, or deep, cardiac plexus, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Its upper border is in relation with the left innominate vein; and from its upper part are given off the innominate, left common carotid, and left subclavian arteries. Its lower border is in relation with the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, the remains of the ductus arteriosus, which is connected with the left division of that vessel, and the superficial cardiac plexus ; the left recurrent laryngeal nerve winds round it from before backwards, whilst the left bronchus passes below it." " The Descending Aorta is divided into two portions, the thoracic and the abdominal, in correspondence with the two great cavities of the trunk, in which it is situated.'' " The Thoracic Aorta commences at the lower border of the fourth dorsal vertebra on the left side, and terminates at the aortic opening of the diaphragm, in front of the last dorsal vertebra. At its commencement, it is situated on the left side of the spine ; it approaches the median line as it descends, and, at its termination, lies directly in front of the column. It is in relation in front, from above downwards, with the Uft puhnonary artery, the left bronchus, j the pericardium, and the oosophagus; behind, with (see p. 323)/, and, per contra, we must have a perinseal ledge, made to look like a triangular piece of card- board with a round hole cut in the middle of it. It nuist be plain to all whose eyes are open, that the effort is being made to subordinate anatonij-, and this no longer the anatomy taught by dissection, to a general study of animal (and vegetable) life, in itself and in its origins. Is this the kind of Anatomy we want as medical men, except, - the tables being turned, - by way of technical accomplishment, or more or less decorative scholarship ? t It will be seen that what is usually described as the descending portion of the arch of the aorta i§ merged into the " thoracic aortiv."