EXPLANATION OF FldUEBS 491 & 492. Figure 491 shows the Multitidus Spinw undisturbed on the right side close to the spine. Just externally to it is the series, also undisturbed, of the levatores costaruni muscles. On the left side the greater part of the multifidus spinse has been removed, its attachments only being left. In the key-plan (Fig. 492), a small o marks the series of the origins from the sacral groove, and from the upper and iimer part of the lumbar mammillary processes, the thoracic transverse processes, and the cervical articular processes. The series of insertions into the spinous processes and the laminse is marked in the key-plan with a cross. The dorsal series of attachments of the ilio-costalis and its accessory seles to the angles of the ribs is seen to consist of twenty-four small tendons. The six lower external tendons - (enclosed in the key-plan in a ring marked 1) - are the tendons of insertiun of the ilio-costalis. The six lower internal, and the six upper external tendons - (enclosed in the key-plan in a ring marked 2)- are the tendons of origin and insertion, respectively, of the musculus accessorius at ilio-costalem. The six upper internal tendons - (enclosed in the key-plan in a ring marked 3) - are the tendons of origin of the cervioalis ascendens. A little internally to the above are seen the outer series of the thoracic insertions of the longissimus dorsi into the eight or nine lower ribs internally to their angles. This series of insertions is enclosed in the key-plan in a ring marked 4, which ring is prolonged downwards into the lumbar region, where it includes the outer lumbar insertions of the muscle into the apices of the lumbar transverse processes. More internally still, and running along the whole length of the lumbar and thoracic portions of the spine, is the series of the inner insertions of the longissimus dorsi into the lumbar mammillarj- tubercles and into the apices of the transverse processes of the thoracic vertebrae, - this series being enclosed, in the key-figure, in a ring marked 5. The left side of the cervical portion of the figure, and of the upper part of the thoracic portion require special attention. Quite externally, in the cervical region, there are seen some small forked tendons hanging down from the transverse processes : these are the insertions of the cervicalis ascendens, externally, and of the transversalis colli, internally. Just internally to these, in the cervical region and the upper part of the thoracic region, there are seen a series of small ascending tendons cut short, single in the cervical region, but double in the upper part of the thoracic region. In the key-plan these are enclosed in a ring marked 6. Of the double series of ascending tendons in the upper part of the thoracic region, the outer ones are the origins of the transversalis colli, and the inner ones those of the trachelo- mastoid. The cervical origins of these muscles are more or less conjoined. Close to the middle line in the cervical region there are seen the double row of the interspinales muscles. Quite close to the cervical, thoracic, and upper lumbar portions of the spine, on the left side, are seen the small tendons, ascending in the lower part of the figure, descending: in th upper part* of the epinales dorsi and colli. In the lumbar region, between the transVetse processes, there are seen on either side, the posterior intertransversales muscles. On the left side there is shown the posterior portion of the quadratus lumborum muscle. Connected with the two upper cervical vertebrte and the cranium, there are shown the recti capitis postici major and minor, and the superior and inferior oblique tauf.eles (belter seen in Fig. Wc).