246 THE TRACHEA & BRONCHI. THE TRACHEA. From 6th cervical vertebra to 4th dorsal. Firm^ rounded, & supported by eartila- ginous riuga in front, flattened & membranous behind. Relations. In Front - Isthmus of thyroid gland, inferior thyroid veins, & thyroidea ima artery (when the latter exists). Remains of thymus gland, left innominate vein, arch of aorta with innominate & left common carotid arteries, gr«*at or deep cardiac plexus, bifurcation of pulmouaiy artery. Sterno-hyoid & -thyroid, anastomotic branches between the anterior jugular veins, sternum, fascia, & skiu. Behind - (Esophagus, which deviates to the left towards lower part of neck; right recurrent laryngeal nerve. On Either Side - Lateral lobe of thyroid gland; common carotid artery, internal jugu. lar vein, pneumogastric & sympathetic nerves; inferior thyroid artery, left recurrent laryngeal nerve (the right nerve lies som(^. what behind the trachea). Innominate & common carotid arteries, pneumogastric & left recur, rent laryngeal nerves; - and farther off, but internally to the pleurae, right innominate vein & right ph.enic nerve, on the right side, left subclavian artery & left phrenic nerve, on the left. THE BRONCHI Commence opposite the 4th dorsal vertebra a little to the left of the middle line; the internal septuo? vvhich marks the separation of the two tubes being slightly diviated to the left by the preponderance in diameter of the right bronchus over the left one. Both divide in the root of the lung into a large inferior and a somewhat smaller superior branch, the iormer of which, on the right side, gives off" a small branch to the middle lobe of the rigiit lung. RIGHT BRONCHUS - About an inch in length, wider, more horizontal than the lelt one; enters root of lung opposite 5ch dorsal vertebra. - It lies behind the superior vena cava & the right auiicle; the right pulmonary artery lies at first below it, and then in front of itj the vena azygos major arches over it from behind. LEFT BRONCHUS —Smaller, more oblique, nearly two inches long; enters root of lung opposite 6iti dorsal vertebra. - It passes beneath the arch of the aorta; the lett pulmonary artery lies at first above it, and then in front of it; behind it are the descemling portion of the arch, the oesophagus & the thoracic duct.