2561 the vertebral column and vena azygos minor; on tbe riglit side, with the vena azygos major and the thoracic duct; on the left side, with the left pleura and lung. The esophagus, with its accompanying nerves, lies on the right si^le of the aorta above; but at the lower part of the thorax it gets in front of the aorta, and close to the diaphragm is situated to its left side." (Gray's Anatomy, 13th Edition.) Abdominal Aorta—Vide Tablets, p. 126. Sacral & Coccygeal Aortsd—Vide p. I52d. " The Cardiac Rings. - The position of the various orifices is as follows :— The pulmonary orifice is situated in the upper angle formed by the articulation of third left costal cartilage Avith the sternum; the aortic orifice is a little below and internal to this, behind the left border of the sternum, close to the articulation of the third left costal cartilage to this bone. The left auriculo-ventricular opening is behind the sternum, rather to the left of the median line, and opposite the fourth coital cartilages. The right auriculo-ventricular opening is a little lower, opposite the fourth interspace, and in the middle line of the body." (Gray's Anatomy, 13th Edition.) " Surface Form. - In order to show the extent of the heart in relation to the front of the chest, draAv a line from the lower border of the second left costal cartilage, one inch from the sternum, to the upper border of the third right costal cartilage, half an inch from the sternum. This represents the base line, or upper limit of the organ. Take a point an inch and a half below, and three-quarters of an inch internal to the left nipple, - that is, about three and a half inches to the left of the median line of the body. This represents the apex of the heart. DraAv a line from this apex point, with a slight convexity downwards, to the junction of the seventh right costal cartilage to the sternum. This represents the lower limit of the heart. Join the right extremity of the first line, - that is the base line, -- with the rig"ht extremity of this line, - that is, to the seventh right chondro-sternal joint, - with a slight curve outwards, so that it projects about an inch and a half from the middle line of the sternum. Lastly, join the left extremity of the base line and the apox point by a line curved slightly to the left." (Gray's Anatomy, 13th Edition.) The first of the two foregoing paragraphs is reproduced with pleasure as giving the data of exact research as opposed to those resulting from the ordinary dissection of the cadaver.* With reference to the second paragraph, however, it is respectfully asked, Is this Anatomy ? It is plain that it is not the " anatomy of the human body as tauf^ht by dissection,"-"the anatomy of the cutaneous structures, then the different layers of - The inference may perhaps be drawn that it is conceded in the above remark that precise research should take precedence of ordinary dissecting. This is by no means the Author's view. Thoug-h all facts, that a,ve facts, must of course be fully accepted, yet the method by which they are established is often of primary importance to the attainment of that personal knowledg'e which alone is of value in such an essentially applied science as Medicine. It is quite possible to lose by any precision in excess of what is needed if for the attainment of the same, such methods of research or verification have to be given up , which are alone within the reach of the individual learner. This appears to be the case, at present at least, with such anatomical studies as are conducted by means of frozen sections.