IV. 348y MINUTE VASCULARISATION OP THE BRAIN". The arteries as they reach the brain may be divided into two systems, the central or ganglionic, and the peripheral or cortical (Charcot), - the former ending in what are called *' terminal," the latter in what are called " semi-terminal," arterioles (Cohnheim). The " terminal " arterioles are such as, from their origin to their termination, neither receive nor give off any anastomotic branches, so that, by these arterioles, only a precisely limited area of tissue is supplied, or can be injected. The semi-terminal arterioles are such as very sparingly give off, or receive, anastomotic branches, so that the injection of one area by the arteriole of an adjoining area, though not impossible, is difficult, and is only effected through vessels of very small size. The central or ganglionic, and the peripheral or cortical, systems in no way communicate, and are thus entirely independent one of the other. There exists, therefore, on the borderland of the two systems a stratum of brain substance but slightly vascular, of diminished nutritive activity, and specially exposed to softening. The central or ganglionic system presents the following sets of arterioles: - Antero-Median, - derived from the commencement of the anterior cerebrals, and from the anterior communicating. These vessels pierce the anterior perforated space and the lamina cinerea, and supply the head of the caudate nucleus. Posteeo-Median, - derived from the commencement of the posterior cerebrals and from the posterior communicating. These pierce the posterior perforated space, and supply the inner surfaces of the optic thalami and the walls of the third ventricle. Antero-Lateral, - derived from the middle cerebrals. These vessels pierce the anterior perforated space^ and supply the caudate and lenticular nuclei, the internal and external capsules, and part of the optic thalamus. One of the arteries of this group, larger than the others, is specially liable to be ruptured, and is termed by Prof. Charcot the "artery of cerebral hemorrhage." Postero-Lateral, - derived from the posterior cerebrals just after they have wound round the crura cerebri. These vessels supply a con- siderable portion of the optic thalami and corpora quadrigemina. A circle drawn at a distance of about an inch from the circle of Willis would include the origin of all the foregoing arteries. The peripheral or cortical system consists of branches of the anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries, which enter the cortex perpendicularly after ramifying in the pia mater. They are divided into short and long. The short arteries are confined to the cortex, where, in the middle zone of grey matter, they form a close network with the branches given off from the long arteries. The long or medullary arteries traverse