228f the shape of sheaths. On their ocular side, or side of pressure, the tendons are somewhat adherent to the sheaths, and, through these, to Tenon's capsule generally : when divided, as in tenotomy, the muscles only retract incompletely, and still continue to act indirectly upon the eye-ball, or upon the stump left after enucleation. The sheath which the capsule supplies to the inferior rectus is prolonged into the lower eye-lid in front of the tarsal cartilage, and gives origin to a lamella of unstriped muscular fibres, known as the "Musculus palpebralis inferior." (See Lockwood, Journal of A. Sr P., vol. xx., part 1.) Tentorium Cerebelli. Under the name of posterior petro-clinoid process, the outer, convex, or attached border of the tentorium cerebelli is continued inwards from the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, partly to become attached to the posterior clinoid process, and partly to join the opposite half of the structure on the mediau line of the basilar groove. Under the name of anterior petro-clinoidprocess, the inner, concave or free border of the tentorium is similarly prolonged above the posterior petro-clinoid process to become attached to the anterior clinoid process. This inner or concave border of the tentorium forms the posterior and lateral boundaries of the superior occipital foramen, which is traversed by the crura cerebri, the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, and the basilar artery. The fifth nerve leaves the dura mater by passing under the fibrous arch formed by the convex border of the tentorium as it overlies the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; it thus enters MeckeVs cave. Fifth Nerve. The sensory portion of the nerve enlarges in Meckel's cave into a triangular plexus in whose meshes numerous nerve-cells are found, and which expands anteriorly into a crescentic lamina of ganglionic matter, the Gasserian ganglion. The plexus is covered by an endothelial layer, and is thus somewhat separated from the dura mater, and can easily be isolated; the ganglion itself, not similarly invested, is closely adherent to the dura mater, and therefore difficult to clean. There are given off recurrent filaments to the dura mater both from the Gasserian ganglion, and from all three divisions of the lifth nerve, as well as from the pneumogastric and the hypoglossal. The fourth nerve would seem to give off similar filaments to the tentorium, but physiological experiment points to these being derived from the ophthalmic branch of the fifth. The ophthalmic branch of the fifth appears to communicate in the outer wall of cavernous sinus with all three motor nerves to the orbital muscles, the third, the fourth, and the sixth. Meckel's Ganglion.—*Sse Pneumogastric and Spinal Accessory Nerves, p. 228h. Submaxillary Ganglion. It is the posterior of the several branches of communication between lingual or gustatory nerve and the submaxillary ganglion that is believed, on phj'siological grounds,