183 i FACIAL NERVE. Arises from upper part of medulla oblongata m groove between oUvaty 6^ reslijorm bodies. Through internal auditory meatus with portio mollis, lying in a groove upon the lattf r and portio intermedia of Wrisberg lying between the two. Through aqueductus Fallopii, in which runs outwards, backwards, downwards: C>«/wari/j - between cochlea and vestibule to hiatus Fallopii, wherp preseuia geniculate ganglion or intumcscentia gaugliformis. Backwards - in inner wall of tympanum above fenestra ovalis. Downwards - to stylo-mastoid foramen. Forwards in substance of parotid gland crossing external carotid artery, and divides behina ramus of jaw into temporo-facial & cervico-facial branches, forming pes anseriaua. Its branches may be divided into branches of comnmniuatiou »Si branches of distribatiuy BRANCHES OF COMMUNICATION - Are: In Meatus Auditorius Internus: One or two filaments to Auditory N, In Aqueductus Fallopii; Large Petrosal N.-to Meckel's ganglion, and supplies levatorpalatiiir' azygos uvula ; Small PetuosaL N. - to Otic ganglion, and supplies tensor palati or' tensor tympa> i Ext. Petrosal N, - to sympathetic on middle meningeal artery. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: Branches to: Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric & Carotid Plexus - Arise from posterior auricular nerve & from nerves to stylo-hycid & posterior belly of digastrio. AuRicuLO-TEMPORAL - From temporo-facial branch. GrREAT Auricular - From posterior auricular & cervico-facial branches. On the Face: The terminal filaments join with the three divisions of the Fifth N. BEANCHEIS OF PISTEIBUTION - Are, In Aqueductus Fallopii: TYMPANIC BR. - To stapedius laxator tympani; CHORDA TYMPANI - Enters tymp. between membr. tympani & base of pyranudi Between handle of malleus & long process of incus. Through canal of Huguier on inner side of Glaserian fissure; Joins gustatory nerve between the two pterygoid muscles; To submaxillary ganglion & lingualis superior. After Exit from Stylo-mastoid Foramen: POST. AURICULAR N. - Over mastoid process to integument and retrahens aurem & posterior belly of occipito-frontalis, and anastomoses with auricu- laris niagnus & posterior auricular branch of pneumogastric. BRS. TO STYLO-HYOID & POST. BELLY op DIGASTRIC - Arise in common, and join, the former with carotid plexus, the latter with glosso-pharyngeal. Ob tJie Face: TEMPORO-FACIAL BR. - The larger. Anastomoses with auriculo-temporal, and divides into temp07'al, malar ^ infraorbital branehts. OEEVICO-FACIAL - The smaller. Anastomoses with great auricular, and divides. into buccal, supramaxillary dr' infrainaxillary branches These terminal branches of the facial nerve supply all the muscles of expression o' the lace & the platysaia, and anastomofe with the ophthalmic, superior & inferior maxillary nerves and with th<v great aoriooiar