PRACTICAL QUESTIONS ON PART III. HEAD & NECK. 73. Feel the pulsations of the frontal, supraorbital, temporal, posterior auricular, and occipital arteries, and trace their course. 74. Trace the course of the supraorbital, supra-trochlear, auriculo- temporal, posterior auricular, and great & small occipital nerves. 75. Trace the lines of the superior longitudinal and lateral sinuses, and mark the lowest levels of the anterior, middle, and posterior lobes of the brain. 76. Find the bregma, trace the line of the fissure of Rolando, and indicate roughly the position of the cortical centres for the muscles of the upper and lower limbs, and the face. 77. Show where the anterior branch of the middle meningeal artery crosses the anterior inferior angle of the parietal. Point out the thickest and thinnest parts of the skull. 78. Look into the external auditory canal, and examine the membrana tympani. 79. Put your finger upon the infraorbital & mental foramina. 80. Draw the lines of the facial artery and its principal branches, and show where its, and their, pulsations can be felt. To what depth do you drive the pins in the suture for hare-lip, and why ? Draw the line of the facial vein. 81. Show the course of the lachrymal canals, and indicate the position of the lachrymal sac. How would you open the latter ? Show the tendo oculi. Peel the pulley of the superior oblique. 82. Draw the lines of Steno's duct, and of the facial nerve & its principal branches. How would you open an abscess over the ramus of the jaw ? Find the aperture of Steno's duct in the mouth. 83. Show where, and how, you would tap the antrum. , . 84. Show the ranine veins, and indicate the positioii of the ranine arteries, and that of the sublingual artery on the floor of the mouth. 85. Examine the throat, and explore the posterior nares. Show externally the position of the tonsil. Where would you divide the gustatory nei'v^e ? 86. Trace the course of the external jugular vein. 87. Feel the hyoid bone, the thyroid & cricoid cartilages, and the crico-thyroid interval. Show the position of the lobes and isthmus of the