342 . SINUSES of the DURA MATER. Venous cauals fifteen in number, and more or less triangular in shape, the outer coat of which is formed] by the splitting of the dura mater, while their inner coat is a continuation of the inner or serous coat of the veins. They are divided into:' PosTEEO-Superior Group: - Superior Longiludinal, Inferior Longitudinal, Straight^ Lateral, Occipital, all converging towards the Torciilar Herophili Antero-Inferior Group: - Cavernous^ Circular, Transverse, Superior 6^ Inferior Petrosal, all converging towards the sella turcica Superior Longitudinal Sinus - Commences at foramen coecum, through which it frequently commuu. icates by a minute branch with veins of Schneiderian membrane of nose. Runs backwards in attach, ed margin of falx cerebri, grooving middle line of frontal, adjacent borders of parietals & superior division of crucial ridge of occipital, and opens into torcular Herophili. Numerous fibrous bands the cho7'd(s Willisii, cross inferior angle of its cavity, and the glandules Paccliionii project into its base. It receives the superficial veins of upper part of hemispheres, numerous veins from diploe & dura mater, and, at posterior extremity of sagittal suture, the parietal veins from the pericranium. Inferior Longitudinal Sinus - Sometimes called a vein on account of its cylindrical form. Follows posterior part of free margin of falx cerebri, and opens into anterior extremity of straight sinus behind the venge Galeni. It receives several small veins from the falx, and accasionally a few from inner surface of hemispheres. Straight Sinus - Runs downwards & backwards in line of junction of falx cerebri with tentorium cere. belli, and opens into torcular Herophili. Receives venae Galeni, inferior longitudinal sinus, inferior median cerebral, & superior cerebellar veins. A few fibrous bands cross its superior angle. Occipital Sinuses - Usually two, small, contained in attached margin of falx cerebelli. Arise near pos. terior border of foramen magnum in several small veins which communicate with posterior longi- tudinal spinal veins. They pass backwards & upwards, and open separately or together into torcular Herophili. Lateral Sinuses - Two, large. Commence at torcular Herophili; pass outwards in posterior attached margin of tentorium cerebelli as far as base of petrous portion of temporal bone, grooving occipital & posterior inferior angles of parietals; carve downwards & inwards grooving mastoid portion of temporals and again the occipital at its lateral angles; and are continued into the internal jagu- lar vein through posterior outer or larger part of foramen lacerum posterius. - They receive the inferior cerebral & inferior cerebellar veins & some veins from the diploe, they are connected to the cavernous sinus by the superior & inferior petrosal sinuses, and they communicate through tha mastoid foramen with the mastoid & posterior condyloid veins of the pericranium. The right one is generally somewhat the larger of the two. Torcular Herophili - An irregular expansion of the posiero-superior group of sinuses pretty nearly cor- responding in situation to the external occipital protuberance, and formed by the coalescence of the superior longitudinal, straight & occipital sinuses, which pour their blood into it, and of the lateral sinuses, which convey the blood from the torcular to the internal jugular veins. Cavernous Sinuses - Two large but short sinuses, extending on either side of sella turcica from sphe. noidal fissure to apex of petrous portion of temporal bone, and communicating with each other through circular & transverse sinuses, and with tho lateral sinuses through the superior & inferior petrosal. Their cavity is intersected by numerous fibrous bands & small vessels; hence their name. Against their inner wall, separated from the blood by the lining membrans of the sinus, are the cavernous portion of the internal carotid artery, the 6th nerve, & the carotid & cavernous plexuses of the sympsthetic; in their outer wall lie from above downwards & from within outward - the 3rd, 4th, & ophthalmic nerves. They receive tke ophthalmic & anterior inferior cerebral veins. Circular Sinus - Placed superficially in ring of dura mater which surrounds pituitary body. Receives small veins from this body, adjacent bone, & dura mater, and communicates on either side witfe the cavernous sinus. Its posterior half is generally larger than the anterior. Transverse Sinus - Small & short. Crosses fore part of basilar groove, connecting cavernous & inferior petrosal sinuses of one side to those of the other; is sometimes double. Superior Petrosal Sinus - Small, along upper border of petrous portion of temporal bone in anterior attached margin of tentorium, connecting lateral & cavernous sinuses of same side. Receiver inferior cerebellar & inferior lateral cerebral veins. Inferior Petrosal Sinus - Somewhat larger than foregoing. Along groove in petro-occipital suture, connecting caverjaous sinus to termination of the lateral in jugular foramen.