298 PARTS SEEN on FLOOR of LATERAL VENTRICLE. Are from before backwards CORPUS STRIATUM (Caudate nucleus of) - Se<^ note, p. 302. TJENIA SEMIOIRCULARIS - Whitish semi-transparent band of libres, which descends anteriorly in connection with anterior crus of fornix, and posteriorly accompanies the tail of the caudate nucleus into the descending cornu of the lateral ventrifcle, to end with it in he amygdaloid nucleus. It is partly concealed by the vena corporis striati, and by a thickened band of ependyma, the lamina cornea. OPTIC THALAMUS - Only the anterior and outer part of its upper surface, presenting the anterior tubercle. (The optic thalamus is described along with the 3rd ventricle, p. 314.) CHOROID PLEXUS - The thick, convoluted & fringe-like margin of the velum interpositum. - Vide Velum Interpositum, p. 306. CORPUS FIMBRIATUM, FIMBRIA, or TJENIA HIPPOCAMPI - The thin lateral margin of the posterior crus of the fornix. The term is more particularly applied to the continuation of the same as prolonged into the descending cornu - see below. FORNIX - Triangular longitudinal lamella of white fibres, broad behind, narrow in front, situated below corpus callosura, with which it is joined behind, and to which it is connected in front by septum lucidum ; forms roof of 3rd {see morphological view, p. 348u), and posterior part of floor of both lateral ventricles. Presents : Body - Presents : Upper Surface - Joined behind with corpus callosum. and connected in front to the same by septum lucidum.; forms posterior part of floor of both lateral ventricles. Under Surface - Marked posteriorly by a few transverse fibres belonging to the corpus callosum, which, with the converging fibres of the fornix, form the lyra. Covered by velum interpositum, with which it forms centrally the roof of 3rd ventricle (see morphological view, p. 348u) ; rests laterally upon optic thalami. ANTERIOR Crura - Descend behind anterior white commissure and in front of optic thalamus, forming anterior boundary of foramina of Monro, and perforate grey substance of floor of 3rd ventricle to corpora albicantia, in which they twist upon themselves previous to ascending into the front part of the optic thalami under the name of bundles of Vicq d'Azyr. Posterior Crura - Diverge into the descending cornua of lateral ventricles, becoming con- tinuous with inner border of hippocampus major (see Pigs. 513, 514). Their thin lateral margin is the corpus jiinbriofu/n or tannin hippocampi,