348q II. LIMBIC LOBE OF BBOCA, FALCIFORM LOBE OF SCHWALBE. Encircles the corpus callosura and the basic ganglia, and is circularly continuous. As first defined by Broca, it consisted of the callosal and hippocampal gyri, which are distinctly continuous behind, at the isthmus, and which are joined together in front, at least in all osraatic mammals, by the inner and outer roots of the olfactory nerve.* To Broca's limbic lobe there have been added (Schwalbe, Zuckerkandl, and other scientists) the striae longitudinales and the peduncles of the corpus callosum, - looked upon as rudimentary gyri, - the septmn lucidum, dentate convolution, fornix, and cingulum. Posteriorly, the strife longitudinales laterales are prolonged upon the back part of the dentate and hippocampal convolutions ; and anteriorly, the peduncles of the corpus callosum reach the uncus of the latter convolution by crossing the grey matter of the anterior perforated space. Here is therefore a second circularly completed gyrus (gyrus marginalia, or Randwiudung of the Germans), curved round the brain-stem like the larger completed callosal and hippocampal gyri, concentric to. and included within the circle of the latter, - a necessary addition, it is contended, to the limbic lobe as first constructed. The strijB longitudinales laterales are now looked upon as a rudimentary gyrus supracallosus, best developed in osmatic mammals, and which consists, in addition to the strias, of a very thin lamina of grey matter continuing the grey matter of the gyrus fornicatus over the side of the upper surface of the corpus callosum. Similarly, the peduncles of the corpus callosum are looked upon as a rudimentary suh-callosal gyrus, which is really but a part of the supracallosal gyrus, - the two halves of the morpho- logical unit having been separated only at the time of the appearance of that great transverse commissure, the corpus callosum. This sub-callosal gyrus, also best marked in the mammals named, and particularly in the monkey, is a band of grey matter wedged in, in the monkey, on each side of the middle line, between the fornix and the corpus callosum. This band is continuous with the degenerate grey matter of the septum lucidum, which may be looked upon as forming part of the same con- volution. With the above marginal gyrus may further be associated another rudimentary (or degenerate) gyrus, the gyrus genicuU, represented in man by the cingulum, and also, most probably, the stria medialis. The cingulum is a tract of fibres beginning at the anterior perforated space, and running circularly in the substance of the callosal and hippocampal convolutions. As they pass backwards, many of its fibres diverge at intervals from the main bundle, and become connected with the neighbouring grey matter of the cortex. Further, certain patches of grey matter are said to occur in the substance of the fornix, which latter, considering the circular course of its fibres as prolonged into the anterior and posterior pillars, is now also, as a rudimentary gyrus, included in the limbic system. * The inner root of the olfactory nerve curves inwards, and may be traced into the anterior extremity of the callosal gyrus. The outer root runs backwards over the outer part of anterior perforated space, and in man becomes lost to view ; but in osmatic mammals it may be traced into the uncinate extremity of the hippocampal s^yrus.