180 THE SALIVARY GLANDS—1st Tablet. Are the parotid, submaxillary & sublingual, and numerous smaller glands situated beiiat the mucous membrane of the mouth. They are all coaglomerace or racemose gl&wJ PAROTID GLAND Lies below & in front of external ear, and stretches forwards to a variable extent on out surface of masseter, often presenting in that situation and just below zygomik, small detached portion, the socia parotid is bounded by: Above - Zygoma. Below - Line drawTi from augle of jaw to sterno-mastoid. Behind - External auditory meatus, mastoid process, sterno-mastoid, poster! belly of digastri Presents: Outer Surface - Lobulated. Covered by integument, fascia & a few fibres platysm Inner Surface - Prolonged deeply in front of and behind styloid process t wards internal carotid & internal jugular vein, wall of pharynx & de part of glenoid fan Ant. Surface - Grooved externally for posterior border of ramus, and fi longed forwards, internally, between the two pterygoid musdii Post. Surface - Rests upon external auditory meatus, mastoid process, stern mastoid, posterior belly of digaatr Is perforated by several Arteries - External carotid with its posterior auricular, internal maxiilary temporal branches, and the transiierse facial offset of the latti Veixs -Internal maxillary & te?nporal forming origin of external jugular, ami branch of communication between the latter & the internal jagala N""^p.TES -Facial, anriculo-temporal & deep facial branches of great auricular. ITS VESSELS k NEIIYES arc -- Arteries & Veins, from or to above mentioin trunks. - Lymphatics, to two or three lymphatic glands in sabstance t&i surface of parotid, and from thence to superficial deep glands of nee -Xervks, from carotid plexus, auriculo-temporal k great auricular. PAROTID DUCT ( Steno's or Stenson's ) — From anterior border of the gtu and from socia parotidis when it exists. Over maspeter a finger's bread oeiow zygoma, its direction being marked by a line from lower part of concha midwny between free margin of the lip & ala of the nose. Through fat of cheek buccinator, and obliquely benonth mucous membrane, which it perforates opposr 2ud molar tosth of upper jfR