318 THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA - (Surface Anatomy) Is the upper enlarged part of llie spinal cord (*). Extends from lower border of Pons Varolii, above, to point of decussation of anterior pyramids, below, which point corresponds pretty nearly to upper border of atlas. Flattened from above downwards and forwards, and presents: ANTERO-i>'FERr()R AsPECT - Eests \ipon basilar groove. PosTERO-suPERiOR AspECT - Forms part superiorly of floor of 4th ventricle, and is continuous inferiorly with posterior surface of cord. Divided, as is the cord, into two lateral halves, by Antero-Median FissiTRE - Continuous below witli that of cord, partly interrupted, how- ever, by decussation of anterior pyramids. Terminates above, just below the pons, in a small recess, the foramen coecnni. Postero-Median Fissi re - Continued above into ventricle of Arantius & postero-median fissure on floor of 4th ventricle, and below into postero-median fissure of cord. SURFACE OF THE MEDULLA OBLONGATA. Each half presents from before backwards between the two median fissures: Anterior Pyramid - Pyramidal-shaped bundle of white fibres, the apparent prolongation of anterior column of cord ; narrow below, enlarged and rounded off above, constricted just below the pons (f). Gives origin in its upper part to 6th cranial nerve. Olivary Body - Oval prominent mass broader above than below, shorter than, but about as broad as, the pyramid. - It is separated from the pyramid by a narrow groove, which gives origin to the hypoglossal nerve, and from the lower part of which numeroas arciform fibres are seen to proceed. These wind upwards and outwards round lower end of olivary body, sometimes crossing its surface. A few arciform fibres emerge from the anterior median fissure, and cross anterior aspect of pyramid (ยง). Lateral Tract - Is continuous, - apparently continuous, that is, - with lateral column of cord. It is broad below, where it includes all that part of the medulla comprised between anterior pyramid and restiform body; above it is pushed backwards, and is narrowed, by the projection of the olivary body. Here it corresponds to the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies, from which arise from above downwards the facial, auditory, glosso-pharyngeal, pneiimogastric, & spinal accessory nerves. Fasciculus Cuneatus - Is the outer and larger, while the Posterior Pyramid or Fasciculus Gracilis - Is the inner & smaller portion of a wide & thick bundle of white fibres continuous below, - apparently continuous, - with the posterior column of cord, whicb bundle diverges from its fellow superiorly, and thus both exposes the grey matter of the floor of the 4th ventricle and forms the lower part of the lateral boundary of that cavity. This wide & thick bundle used to be called, and must still be called in dissectional anatomy, the restiform body (^). - From irs inner and dorsal aspect there projects inwards a thin lamina of Avhite matter termed the Uqula, which, at the point of divergence of the two restiform bodies, is joined to its fellow of the opposite side by means of a somewhat wider lamina continuous with both ligulie, the obex. Opposite the apex of the calamus scriptorius the posterior pyramid presents an enlargement, the processus c/avatiis. In front of the processus cuneatus- behind & a little below olivary body, is a small greyish eminence, the grei/ taherde of Rolando (the upper part of the fasciculus of Rolando), formed by the projection of the substantia gelatinosa. Grey Matter of Floor of 4th Ventricle - Vide Fourth Ventricle, page 326. t, ยง, 1] See notes, iMfje 348x.