348ram is no longer visible, but in the antero-la1;eral part of the reticnluar formation there are one or two small collections of grey matter known as the superior olive. A special set of transverse fibres is here visible, the trapezium, probably connected with the cells of the superior auditory nucleus. Crossing the root fibres of the sixth and facial nerves, they run ventrally to the ascending root of the fifth nerve, and apparently join the accessory auditory nucleus and the ventral root of the auditory nerve. A section a little higher up shows the motor nucleus of the 5th nerve, and part of its middle sensory nucleus,* with, in its midst, a few transversely cut fibres of the ascending root. 7. Upper Part of Pons; Crura Cerebri, Valve of Vieussens. - Here the pons shows simply its transverse fibres (^.) greatly broken up, between which are the correspondingly subdivided fibres of the pyramids (py.), and isolated clusters of grey matter. Dorsal to the pons, and separated from it by the still wide and undivided plane of the fillet (I, l^), is the continuation of the formatio reticularis surmounted by the grey Fig. 593.—section through upper part of pons. (Schwalbe, after Stilling.) t., transverse fibres of the pons ; py., py., bundles of the pyramids ; a., boundary line between the tegmental part of the pons and its ventral part; I', oblique fibres of the lateral fillet, passing towards the inferior corpora quadrigemina; I., lateral; l^, mesial fillet; f.r., formatio reticularis; p.L, posterior longitudinal bundle; s.c.p., superior cerebellar peduncle; v.m.a., superior medullary velum; I, grey matter of the lingula ; v. 4, fourth ventricle ; in the grey matter which bounds it laterally are seen, v.d., the descending root of the fifth nerve, with its nucleus; s./., substantia ferruginea; </.c., group of cells forming the nucleus of the 4th nerve. matter of the floor of the upper or closed part of the 4th ventricle (v. 4), now rapidly narrow- ing into the aqueduct of Sylvius. On either side of this grey matter are the crescentic sections of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum (s.cjc.), joined mesially above by the valve of Vieussens or superior medullary velum (y.m.a.) ; over this is the section of one of the transverse bands of grey matter making up the lingula (0- * The upper sensory nucleus according to Quain's description. See foot-note, p. 152q.