256x SUMMARY OF PRACTICAL POINTS. (THOEAX AND BACK.) Sternuni.—Behind the first piece of the bone we find the left innominate vein, behind which are the innominate, left common carotid, and left subclavian arteries, the trachea, and the oesophagus. Below the left innominate vein comes the arch of the aorta, the highest part of which lies an inch below the upper border of the sternum. The trachea divides into the two bronchi opposite the articulation between the two first pieces of the sternum, below and behind the arch of the aorta. The innominate artery runs along a line drawn from the middle of the above articulation to behind the right sterno-clavicular joint. The internal mammaij arteries run behind the costal cartilages half an inch from either side of the sternum. The top of the sternum corresponds to the second dorsal vertebra; its lower extremity corresponds to the tenth. Ribs.—The second rib corresponds to the articulation between the first and second pieces of the sternum; the fifth, to the lower border of the pectoralis major; the sixth, to the highest digitation of the serratus magnus usually visible in the axilla : the two last ribs can always be felt just external to the erector spinae. The nipple in the male lies in the fourth intercostal space, about four inches from the middle of the sternum. Paracentesis pericardii is performed in the fourth or fifth intercostal space, just to the left of the sternum. Paracentesis thoracis is performed in the fifth or sixth intercostal space, a little above and in front of the lower angle of the scapula. The first, or ascending, portion of the arch of the aorta commences behind the sternum, close to the lower border of the third left costal cartilage, and passes upwards and to the right behind the inner extremity of the second intercostal space to the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side, close to the sternum. The superior vena cava lies to its right, behind the inner extremity of the two first intercostal spaces.