256c these, and between them and the heart, which are sometimes referred to nnder seiiarate names. The largest of these is ihe grent oblique sinus. Great Oblique Sinus. Is the cnl-de-sac which passes up behind the heart as far as the upper and back part of the auricles. It presents a wide opening below between the inferior vena cava, on the right, and the left inferior pulmonary vein, on the left. This sinus is bounded on either side by the somewhat complex line of reflexion of the serous layer of the pericardium from the inner surface of the iibrous layer on to the mesial aspect of the pulmonary veins and the xeiix cava. Marshall's Vestigial Fold, and its Contents. In the pouch or sinus between the left pulmonary artery above and the lefu superior pulmonary vein below, lies MarshaWs vestigial fold of the pericardnivu a small dnplicatnre of the serous layer of the pericardium, containing the remains of the left duct of Cnvier, or left superior vena cava of early embryonic life, reduced, in the adult, to a small fibrous band. This remnant may sometimes be traced downwards from the left superior intercostal vein to the outer side of the left auricle, where it is then seen to course backwards to join the coronary vein, the latter, after the junction, becoming the somewhat thickened coronary sinus; it may be patent (see development of the central venous system, page 256m). EVOLUTION OF THE HEART AND AORTIC ARCHES ; FCETAL AND NORMAL & ABNORMAL ADULT STRUCTURES CON- NECTED THEREWITH. I. Development of the Heart, and of the First or Pericardial Portion of the Aorta & Pulmonary Artery. Two primitive parallel tubes fused into one, which is bifurcated at either end, the caudal end being continuous with the two vitelline veins, and the cephalic erd with the two primitive aortre. This tube is then partially dirided by two transverse septa into three portions, and is then bent upon itself so that tlie posterior or auricular portion comes to lie at the upper and back part of the organ, and the middle or ventricular portion at the lower and front part. Partitioning into right and left cavities, (1) of the ventricular portion, (2) of the auricular portion, and (3) of the anterior portion or aortic bulb. (1.) A pa-tition rises up from the lower part of the common ventricular wall, and grows upwards till it reaches the above-mentioned septa. A corresponding external cleft appears a little to the right of the most prominent point, or apex, of the heart, and persists as the interventricular groove, becoming partly filled in, however, as develop- ment progresses. (2.) True partitioning of the auricular portion occurs some little time after the visible diiferentiation of the right & left halves which results from the projection of the