capsule open towards the mesial plane, and from which issue the majoritv of the hbres of the superior peduncle. There are also three other smaller masses of grey matter in the medullary core, all lying just internally to the hilum of the corpus dentatum, and named the nuclei emboliformis. globosus. and fastigii. Of the three cerebellar peduncles which enter or leaye the medullary centre, the viiddle one is the largest. It is formed by the transyerse fibres of the pons, and enters the cerebellar hemisphere externally to the two others, widely separating the lips of the great horizontal fissure. It cons'sts of two decussating bundles ; one is derived from the upper pontine fibres, and radiates towards the lower part of the cerebellar hemisphere : the other is derived from the lower pontine fibres, and radiates towards the upper part of the hemisphere. The superior pednnrJe is mainly derived from the corpus dentatum. Emerging from the cerebellum on the inner side of the middle peduncle, it ascen s towards the testes, forming part of the roof and lateral boundary of the fourth ventricle : it is joined to its feilow by the valve of Vieussens. The inferior peduncle, or restiform body of the medulla {see note. p. SlSx), emerges from the white matter of the cerebellum between the two others. It is at first directed forwards, but it soon curves downwards and inwards, forming the lower part of the lateral boundary of the fourth ventricle. Fig. 544.—mesial section of entire brain. (Sappey, Hirschfeld.) 9, coi-pus canosum, with, 10 and 11, its beak or rostram, and 12, its posterior extremity or spleniura, the latter formiLg the upper boundary of the middle portion of the transverse fissure ; 18,septt:m lucidum ; 14j section of fornix, with, 15, its anterior crus passing down in front of the foramen of Monro, 16, and behind the anterior commissure, 24, to the coqDUS albicans, 17, in which it twists upon itself to re-ascend to the optic thalamus, fonning the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr ; 19, choroid plexus ; 22, middle or grey commissure on inner surface of optic thalamus ; 23, tubercula quadrigemina ; 20, pineal gland, with, 21, its superior peduncle or stria pinealis separating the inner and upper surfaces of the optic thalamus : just below and in front of the pineal gland and the commencement of its peduncle is the section of the posterior commissure ; 2S, arbor vitse of cerebellum ; 26, valve of Vieussens; 27, fourth ventricle; 25, aqueduct of Syh ius ; 30, 31, 32, tuber cinereum, with the inftmdibulum and pituitarj- body, and the section of the op ic nerve ; 33, 34, section of pons and medulla.