34811 of the auditory nerve. This root is seen to cross the restiform body externally; it contains a few nerve-cells. The smaller internal root of the same nerve is seen to arise from the ventral part of the nucleus, and to cross the inner aspect of the restiform body. Where the two roots join there is, in the angle between them, a small collection of nerve-cells, the accessory auditory nucleus. The section shows the ascending root of the 5th nerve ( Va.) to the inner side of the inner auditory root. 6. Mesocephalon: Through Lower Part of Pons. - We are now clear of the medulla as regards external features and general outline; not quite so, however, as regards structural points. Here appear the numerous transverse fibres, superficial and deep, which pass from one hemisphere of the cerebellum to the other. Between them, still rig. 272. [Fig. 592.—section through lower part of pons. (After Stilling and Schwalbe.) py., pyramid-bundles continued up from the medulla ; po., transverse fibres of the pons passing rom the middle crus of the cerebellum, before (j>o'^) and behind {jpo') the chief pyramid bundles ; , deeper transverse fibres, constituting the trapezium; the grey matter between the transverse fibres is not represented either in this or in the following figures ; r, raphe ; o.s., superior olivary nucleus ; a.V., bundles of the ascending root of the fifth nerve, enclosed by a prolongation of the grey substance of Rolando ; VI., the sixth nerve ; n. VI., its nucleus ; VII., the facial nerve ; Vila., ascending portion of the facial root; n.VIl., its nucleus ; VIII., superior root of the auditory nerve ; n. VIIL, part of the nucleus of Deiters. forming a fairly compact mass, as compared with the arrangement further up, are seen the prolongation of the fibres of the pyramids {py.); also various deposits of grey matter, the nuclei pontis. Spread out over the dorsal aspect of the section is the grey matter of the upper part of the floor of the 4th ventricle, still presenting the auditory nucleus (n. VIII.) externally, but presenting, internally, two new nuclei, - that of the 6th nerve (n. VI.) nearest to the middle line, and that of the 7th nerve (n. VII.) more externally, and deeper, some- what buried in the reticular formation. The bundle of the ascending roots of the 5th nerve (a. V.) is seen cut across between the root fibres of the auditory & facial nerves, enclosed in a prolongation of the substantia gelatinosa. The olivary body