256g the third portion of both fully evolved subclavian arteries. The portion of the subclavian artery iniernal to the collateral branch named, - that is, practically the whole of the first and second portions of the left artery, and such parts of the first and second portions of the right artery as are not formed by the fourth arch, - is then developed from the common trunk of the above-named "intercostal" artery.* IV. Abnormalities. First or Pericardial Portion of the Aortic Arch, Pulmonary Artery. The aorta and pulmonary artery may communicate more or less freely through deficiency of the septum between them ; they may be united into one common trunk, in connection with a single heart, like that of fishes; they may be transposed, the pulmonary artery communicating with the left, and the aorta with the right ventricle. Extra-Pericardial Portion of the Aortic Arch. There may be a complete double aortic arch. Here the right fourth arch and the lower part of the right descending root have developed along with the corresponding structures of the left side. The correctness of the remarks in the foregoing footnotes will here be apparent: The aorta bifurcates into two originally equally important trunks. There may be a complete transposition of the arterial and venous sides of the heart, and of the aortic arch & pulmonary artery and great veins of the root of the neck (dextrocardia), as in birds, - which condition may be accompanied by a similar transposition of the viscera generally (situs inversus). Without any other abnormality, there may be a simple change of side of the aortic arch, the vessels arising from the arch being, from before backwards and from left to right, a left in?iominate, a right common carotid., and a right subclavian, - the recurrent laryngeal nerve further forming its sling round the aorta on the right side and round the subclavian artery on the left. Here the right fourth arch and right descending root have developed instead of the corresponding structures of the left side. Descending Aorta and Aberrant Subclavian Artery. The right subclavian artery is not unfrequently detached from the early * The lateral portions of the embryo, - and the limbs, - being of late growth, the dorsal intercostal branches of the "intercostal" arteries are antecedent to the proper intercostal branches. These are then sometimes described, therefore, as being given off from the former. In particular, the intercostal artery which goes to form part of the adult subclavian artery is described by Prof. Schafer as a branch of the vertebral. "The vertebral artery," says Prof. Schafer, "gives off from its commencement a branch for the upper extremity, which branch subsequently exceeds the parent trunk in size, and forms part of the subclavian, the name being extended to what was originally the commencement of the vertebral." Prof. Macalister gives practically the same account, but applied to the superior intercostal. It will be seen that on the left side the subclavian is entirely an artery of new formation, while on the right side it is partly so and partly one of more ancient date,