152o accessory, or ventral, nucleus (N. VIII. Ace, Fig. 190; VIir.,Fig. 184), situated between the two portions of the nerve in front of the restiform body. But there is a large collection of ganglion cells (G.L.R.) in this lateral portion of the nerve as it lies on outer side of the restiform body ; several of the root-fibres arise, no doubt, from these ; and some appear to be continuous with the lineae transversjB, or striae medullares, on the floor of the fourth ventricle. Spinal Accessory Nerve CSee Figs. 358a, b, k).—The origins of this nerve are quite simple. Both its spinal and its bulbar, or accessory, portions arise from a long and continuous column of cells (XI.) which extends from the level of the fifth or sixth cervical nerve to the level of the lower third of the olivary body, and is contiguous superiorly with the principal nucleus of the pneumogastric and glosso-pharyngeal nerves (IX. & X.). Inferiorly, this column belongs to the anterior horn of the grey matter; higher up it becomes lateral, and then dorso-lateral, to the hypoglossal nucleus (XII., Fig. 358a ; N, XI., Fig. 358k). The root-fibres first run dorsally for a short distance, and then turn outwards towards the sides of the cord and medulla, to emerge from the lateral column of the former, and, from the latter, between the olivary and restiform bodies below the pneumogastric nerve. Glasso-pharyngeal and Pneumograstie Nerves (See Figs. 358a, b, H, ^ l).—The deep origins of these two nerves should be described together. They have both one principal and two accessory nuclei. The principal nucleus of both nerves (sensory nucleus) is a broad and somewhat elongated column of cells (IX. and X.), which lies superiorly in the ala alba externa and lower part of the tuberculum acusticum, and inferiorly in the ala cinerea on the outer side of the hypoglossal nucleus (XII.).* As accessory, or motor, nuclei (Duval, Testut) of these nerves there are to be considered the so-called nucleus ambiguus, and the funiculus solitarius. The nucleus ambiguusf (N. AM., Fig. 358h, and n.a., Fig. 358a) lies in the formatio reticularis, somewhat external and ventral Fig. 358h.—plan op nuclei and root-fibres of glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves, as SEEN ON transverse SECTION. (Quain, after Obersteiner.) The section is made through the upper part of the medulla, and shows the nuclei and root-fibres Of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. A section made a little lower down would be very similar in character, and would show the nuclei (in continuation of the foregoing) and the root-fibres of the pneumogastri nerve. N. IX. may therefore be taken as the principal or sensory, and, similarly, N. AM. (nucleus ambiguus) and F.S. (fasciculus solitarius) as the motor nuclei of both nerves. * See Floor of 4th Ventricle, p. 321, where there will also be found a short account of the nuclei of origin of the several cranial nerves. tThe term "nucleus ambiguus" is merely expressive of the fact that views have differed as to whether it is sensory or motor in character.