848v deftly with the delicate adherent intestine ; through the linea semilunaris, find the pylorus in the midst of those adhesions, altered appearances, and displacements. What serves "scientific" Anatomy here? What help generalisations on the persistence of the metameric arteries, or on the Treitz's fourth portion of the duodenum ? Remove that cancerous tongue. What is the advantag-e of having been lectured to as to the supposed primitive duct of the thyroid ? We are rightly proud of the recent progress, - indeed, evolution, - of surgery. What is it due to in the main? To Lister's antisepHeism. There is no connection whatever between the improved surgical therapeutics and the form of Anatomy now being pushed to to the front. Let the physiologist claim to have suggested the advances in brain surgery. Such honour may legitimately be placed to his credit. But who carried physiological discoveries into effect in man ? Who trephined the human skull to expose the motor aresB? Who excised the Gasserian ganglion? Anatomists of the new school? Certainly not. Men reared in the dissecting room. Experimentally, physiology has brought almost every organ and tissue of the body within the reach of treatment. Great is the honour. But who is to carry out in man the behests of the younger and more progressive science ? The physiologist himself, the physiological anatomist, who bases his knowledge of adult man on the study of the embryo, or on that of the lower animals ? No. The human anatomist, who bases his knowledge on dissecting. All credit to the scientists for their great and noble work. But let them not spoil it by tying down to abstract doctrines leading to ignorance of patent and tangible fact in regard to man himself, the very hands which are to bring forth the practical results on which their glory rests. Writes R. G. Patteson, Surgeon to Meath Hospital:— "Anatomy is not taught as the handmaid of Surgery, but as a separate science bristling with technicalities and overloaded with trivial and exasperating details. Hence it is unwillingly learnt, and readily forgotten. And the vast majority of facts, which are all- important in surgery, are soon engulfed in the wreckage which follows the emancipation of an over-burdened memory when the examination is passed." Fig. 577.—diagrammatic section through optic thalami and part."^ in relation to them. (Schwalbe.) Showing how the velum interpositum and choroid plexuses are excluded from the lateral & third ventricles by the refiections of the ventricular epithelium. vIII, third ventricle ; Th, optic thalamus ; /, ca, fornix, corpus callosum ; cv, t, crus cerebri, tegmentum. The Third Ventricle.—A Note to p. 310. The third ventricle is said to present four recesses (see Figs. 578, 579). At the lower and front part there is said to be a small recess just above the optic comraissure, and a funnel-shaped prolongation into the infundibulum of the pitnitary body. And at the upper and back part there are described the recessus pinealis and the recessus suprapinealis. The former of^these is a slight prolongation of the ventricular cavity into the stalk of the