228/: THE LAIlYNX-4th Tablet. MUCOUS MEMBRANE Is stretched, on entering the larynx, betM^een the arytcenoid cartilages & the epiglottis, forming the aryi(Enp-cpi,s,lo1t{dean folds. These contain the thyro- & the arytoeno- epiglottidean mnscles, the cuneiform cartilages & the cartilages of Wrisberg, and a large amount of loose cellular tissue, the occasional infiltration of which tissue constitutes the so-called oedema of the glottis. It is thin, and of a pale rosy colour. It is particularly thin & adherent over the epiglottis, and still more so over the true vocal cords, where it is transparent enough for the ligamentous fibres to be seen through its substance. Its epithelium is columnar ciliated below the superior vocal cords, and also, in front, as high as the middle of the epiglottis; above these points it loses its cilia, and gradu- ally assumes the squamous form. It is squamous over the true vocal cords. It is highly sensitive in the upper part of the larynx. MUCOUS GLANDS — Simple tubular, and conglomerate; particularly abundant over the posterior surface of the epiglottis, in which situation they are received into num. erous small pits in the substance of the cai tilage; but they are found everywhere beneath the mucous membrane, excepting over the true vocal cords. The glands of the sacculus laryngis, from 60 to 70 in number, pour out their secretion upon the in- ferior or true vocal cords Avhich it is destined to lubricate. The so-called aryticnoid glands are collected into a somewhat large mass in the arytteno-epiglottidean folds, in front of the arytgenoid cartilages. VESSELS & NERVES — Auteries. Are the laryngeal branches of the superior & inferior thyroid. - Veins. Open into the superior, middle & inferior thyroid. - Lym- PHATics. Terminate in the deep cervical glands. - Nerves. Are the superior and the inferior or recurrent laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric, and filaments from the sympathetic. The superior laryngeal nerve supplies the mucous membrane, the crico-thyroid muscle, & in part the'arytaenoid; the inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve supplies in part the aryttenoid, and all the other muscles, excepting the crico- thyroid.