CORPUS STRIATUM. The corpus striatum is a large and complex mass of nervous substance consisting of the caudate and lenticular nuclei Avith the intervening, and enveloping, internal and external capsules. CAUDATE NUCLEUS. The caudate nucleus is the surface portion of the corpus striatum, and the only portion that can be made out, except bv means of sections. It is a thin stratum of grey matter arched from before backwards and outwards, so as to present, in horizontal section, two portions placed at a distance from each other. It is thickest at its anterior end, or head, which bulges into the anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. From thence it ascends with an inclination backwards and outwards into the body of that cavity, forming the anterior and outermost part of its floor. It then passes into a gradually narrowing tail, which descends first in the anterior wall, and then in the roof of the descending cornu, to end in the amygdaloid tubercle at the extreme end of the roof. The deep surface of the caudate nucleus is separated in the main from the lenticular nucleus by the inner capsule; quite in front, however, the head is directly continuous Avith the lenticular nucleus, and a little further back it is still connected with the same by bands of grey matter which here intersect the fibres of the internal capsule. {See Fig. 516.) LENTICULAR NUCLEUS. The lenticular nucleus comes to the surface at the anterior perforated space, where it is continuous both with the caudate nucleus and with the hereafter mentioned claustrum. It is otherwise separated by the external capsule from the claustrum. and by the internal capsule from the optic thalamus* and the caudate nucleus. In conjunction with the caudate nucleus, it must be studied in sections - horizontal sagittal, and coronal. In horizontal section, the lenticular nucleus appears as a bi-convex lens with surfaces directed inwards and outwards, the inner surface being the more convex of the two. It has much the same shape in sagittal sections (Figs. 513, 514). In coronal sections far forwards, where it is closely connected with the caudate nucleus, it is crescentic, with convexity downwards and outwards (Fig. 516). In coronal sections further back, it becomes more and more disconnected from the caudate nucleus, and triangular ; here it can be made out, in fresh brains, to consist of three zones of different structure, separated by thin medullary inter-sections. The two inner smaller zones are lighter in colour, and form the globus pallidus. The outer larger zone, ovputamen, is darker in colour (Figs. 517, 518). This latter is the longest part of the lenticular nucleus from before backwards, and that which is continuous anteriorly with the caudate nucleus and the claustrum. The caudate nucleus is of same structure throughout, and the only peculiarity it presents is, in horizontal sections, its division into the two parts above referred to. In the horizontal section just below the foramina of Monro (which best shows the caudate and lenticular nuclei, the inner & outer capsules, optic thalamus, and claustrum), the head and the tail of the caudate nucleus are separated by the whole length of the body of the lateral ventricle. CLAUSTRUM. Tlie claustrum is a thin stratum of grey matter stretched vertically on the outer side of the lenticular nucleus. It is connected anteriorly with the putamen, but is otherwise separated from the lenticular nucleus by the outer capsule. It lies just internal to the Island of Reil, from which it is separated by a layer of white matter, into which it sends pointed processes corresponding to the gyri operti. EXTERNAL CAPSULE. The external capsrde is a narrow plane of white fibres separating the lenticular nucleus from the claustrum.