PREFATORY NOTICE TO THE NERVE CENTRES. Tlie anatomy of the nerve-centres has been hirgely re-written : and the subject ha? been dealt with from both the dissectional and the " scientific'" standpoints. In no part of the body have recent discoveries been more numerous than in connection with the nerve-centres. It is believed that these will be found fairly recorded ill the Tablets and Notes. Here, as elsew^here, the Tablets, - representinj; the dissectional nsppct of Anatomy, - have been but slightly altered: Ilissectional Anatomy does not ehainje.. They have been very amply "qualified or collected" (?) from the interpretational point of view by means of the Notes. It is submitted that in no part of the body has the divergence been more marked between plain naked-eye or dissectional Anatomy, on the one hand, and advanced, or scientific," Anatomy, the Anatomy of the specialist, on the other; and that, as a conse- ([uence, there is no part of the body about which, in a practical sense, men know so little. Here, especially, strange as it may seem, microscopical structure and Anatomy view ed in the light of embryology and morphology, do not tally, in many notable instances, with outward configuration : Thus (1) the restiform bodies are to all outward appearances the continuation of the posterior columns of the cord : in reality -/.e., to the microscope - they are not so. (2) To the naked eye the fourth ventricle is widely open superiorly (The term "open part " of the medulla is accepted by the most advanced anatomists): as a matter of fact - i.e., embryologice - the fourth ventricle is as completely closed in as the third ventricle. (3) The roof of the third ventricle is apparently formed by the under surfaces of the velum interpositum and fornix ; in reality - e'.e., emhryologice - these structures have nothing to do with such roof. (4) The pia mater seems to penetrate, - indeed, is seen to penetrate, - into the interior of the brain through the transverse fissure : in reality - i.e., embryologice - it does nothing of the kind : &c., Szc* What has seemed to the Author the easiest way out of the diiliculty in regard to these discrepancies, has been to describe certain things twice over, - first from tlie point of view of naked-eye or dissectional Anatomy, and then from the advanced or scientifi'-. standpoint. The reader will see where, and wliy, contradictory statements and conflicting opinions have been submitted, and where, and why, terms have been used, and have had to be used, in apparently antagonistic senses. • These several divergencies remind one of the descendens hypoglossi being "in reality" a branch of the cervical plexus, of the "true " external jugular vein beginning at the mastoid foramen, of the " true " aortic arch as quite a different thing from the arc h of either the pathologist or the physician, &c., &c., and almost force upon one Pilate's question. Wluit Is frntli! In an observational science, truth means', to the Authoi-s mind, confnrmify to irhat „„o I,;in,s thnnniJi one^ .^ensex. But then, in the various connections above referred to, and in many otlui>, "truth, - - triuh judged by the above standard, - is to some - to the new School - most unpardonable error, while it is the condemned - or courteously ignored-" error" that is undoubtedly the truth to others, - to the School of Gray, Ellis, Heath, Holden, .... and the Author. It is believed that, if not in connection with the abdomen, it is in connection with the nerve-centres that the split nmst occur between dissectional and "scientific" Anatomy, which the Author has endea\ oured to prepare for.