228m FlO. 4U.—SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE AND MECKEL'S GANGLION FROM THE OUTER SIDE. (Sappey, Hirschfeld.) (1) Casserian ganglion ; (3) superior maxillary nerve ; 15, terminal branches on the face, seen joininj? with facial nerve, 16; (13, 14) superficial posterior dental branches; (4) orbital branch); 6, its malar twig, divided; 7, its temporal twig, joined at 5 by a twig from the lachrymal nerve, 2 ; (8) Meckel's ganglion; (9) Vidian nerve ; (10) its motor root, or large superficial petrosal nerve, derived from the facial nerve, 11; (12) its sympathetic root. Fig. 445.—superior maxillary nerve and Meckel's ganglion from the outer side. (Sappey, Hirschfeld.) (1) Superior maxillary nerve ; (2) deep posterior dental nerve ; 3, superficial posterior dental nerve, divided ; (4) anterior dental nerve ; 5, superior dental plexus; (6) Meckel's ganglion; (7) Vidian nerve; 8, its motor root, or large superficial petrosal nerve ; 9, its sympathetic root. 10, part of sixth nerve, receiving twigs from carotid plexus ; 11, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; 12, its ascending branch to the internal carotid artery. (13) Facial nerve in aqueductus Fallopii. (14) Glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; 15, its tympanic branch, or Jacobson's nerve ; 16, twig joining sympathetic on internal carotid artery ; 17, 18, 19, filaments to fenestra ovalis, and mucous membrane of Eustachian tube; 20, small deep petrosal nerve, joining small superficial petrosal branch of facial divided, 21, Fig. 446.—MECKEL'S ganglion seen from the inner side, and nerves to the nose. (Sappey, Hirschfeld.) (3) Meckel's ganglion ; 4, its anterior or great palatine nerve, whose branches to the inferior turbinated bone are seen in 7 ; 5, and 6, small, and external palatine nerves; 8, superior nasal nerve; 9, naso-palatine nerve, divided ; (10) Vidian nerve ; 11, its motor root, or large superficial petrosal branch of facial; 13, cavernous plexus. Fig. 447.—the otic ganglion, seen from the inner side. (Sappey, Hirschfeld.) (8) Otic ganglion ; (9) small superficial petrosal nerve ; 11, twig connecting the ganglion with the auriculo-temporal nerve ; 12, twig from the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery ; 10, branch to the tensor tympani muscle ; 13, nerve to the internal pterygoid muscle ; 14, nerve to the tensor palati. (1) Small or motor root of fifth nerve, passing down on inner side of Gasserian ganglion to join with the inferior maxillary nerve ; (2) inferior dental nerve, giving off its mylo-hyoid branch (3), which is seen further down emerging from beneath the internal pterygoid muscle ; (4) lingual nerve, with the chorda tympani (5) ; 6, descending portion of the facial nerve in the aqueductus Fallopii; (7) auriculo- temporal nerve, enclosing the middle meningeal artery between its two roots. A portion of the facial nerve has been removed so as to open up the aqueductus Fallopii, and to show the membrani tympani with the incus & the stapes. Fig. 448.—the otic ganglion from the outer side ; the deeper nerves of the head and neck, and more particularly the deep connections op MECKEL'S AND THE OTIC GANGLIA WITH THE PETROSAL AND JACOBSON'S NERVES. (Hirschfeld.) (See Fig. 398, on page 187a, for earlier dissection of the same " part.") (1) Ophthalmic nerve, divided at its origin from the Gasserian ganglion. Its lachrymal branch is also divided, and the contents of the orbit are removed, to give a better view of its nasal branch and the infra-trochlear offset of the latter ;