242 PULMONARY VESSEI-S. PULMONARY ARTERY. Short thick trunk abGHt two inches long, which conveys the venoug blood from the right side of the heart to the lunga. Arises from apex of infundibnlam of right ventricle opposite uppsr border of 3rd co"'tal cartilage of left side close to sternum. Upwards, backwards & to the left, winding spirally in front & then to the left of ascending portion of arch of aorta, the two vessels being contained in one tubular sheath of the serous layer of the pericardium. - On either side of the artery are the auricular appendices & the coronary arteries ; behind it are the aorta & the left auricle. Pierces fibrous layer of pericardium, and divides below & in front of transverse portion of arch of aorta into: — Right Pulmonary Artery - The larger & longer. To the right behind ascending aorta & superior vena cava to root of right lung, in which it lies, both from before backwards and from above downwards, between the pulmonary veins & the bronchus. Divides into; Superior Branch - The smaller, to superior & middle lobes. Inferior Branch - The larger, to inferior lobe. Left Pulmonary Artery - The smaller & shorter, connected at its root by remains of ductus arteriosus to under surface of arch of aorta. To the left in front of descending aorta, lying, in root of left lung, above the veins & the bronchus, but behind the former & in front of the latter. Divides into: Superior Branch - The smaller, to superior lobe. Inferior Bkanch - The larger, to inferior lobe. P^TLMONARY VEINS. Usually four. Commence upon the intercellular passages & air-cells in the capillary network of the pulmonary artery, but are also continuous with some of the terminal ramifications of the bronchial arteries. Their smaller divisions are bat very little larger than the corresponding branches of the pulmonary artery, and they accompany these singly, and form a single trunk for each lobule. Their larger branches are destitute of valves, and form a single trunk for each lobe, the trunk from the middle lobe of the right lung uniting with that from the upper. The two trunks from right lung pass behind superior vena cava, right auricle & ascend- ing aorta, and those from left lung cross anteriorly the descending aorta; all are invested anteriorly by serous layer of pericardium. In the lung the pulmonary vessels a,re generally found to lie in front of the correspond, ing bronchial tubes, the artery being above the vein. In the roots of the lungs the pulmonary veins lie in front of the arteries, and the arteries in front of the bronchus; and the order from below upwards is vans, arteryy bi-onchus^ on the right side, veins, bronchus, artery, on the left. There is sometimes a small distinct • vein for middle lobe ot right lung. The two left pulmonary veins often unite into one trunk.