00 0 0 6090066©®©©@®0®00Q0Q00Q 0"© 0 © .0 00 by Robert Wells Jlulkor of 'The Bread^ Biscuit BakersJfssistant ” i/VNAAi Wijh OfiE Hundred Original Designs22101357429Med K10900 fam^k WW^Mm I* '4^'x%^5^ i ;$T* • £ , 8 ^P5g^|p^lEWj^gp«fflK i«H ara ^®5 p| Isite lifeDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 - f. '•> •**?*•• > v»‘ https://archive.org/details/b28054064ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERYBy the same Author. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. THE BREAD & BISCUIT BAKER’S AND SUGAR BOILER’S ASSISTANT, INCLUDING A LARGE VARIETY OF MODERN RECIPES, WITH Remarks on the Art of Bread-making and Chemistry as applied to Bread-making. By ROBERT WELLS. “ Plenty of valuable information.”—Practical Confectioner. “ A large number of wrinkles for the ordinary cook, as well as the baker.”—Saturday Review. “ A book of instruction for learners and for daily reference in the shop and bake-house.”—Bakers’ Times. “ Just the very thing for a master baker to have in his possession for constant reference.”—British Journal of Catering. Also by the same Author. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. (Uniform with the above work.) The PASTRYCOOK & CONFECTIONER’S GUIDE FOR HOTELS, RESTAURANTS, and THE TRADE IN GENERAL. ADAPTED ALSO FOR FAMILY USE. Cuntaining a IjPargc Uarirtg nf Jttobern anb Stsrfnl Sfmprs. “ Contains a mass of most valuable information, which many ‘ old hands’would do well to note and act upon. . . . It is excellently written, and in words capable of being understood by the humblest member of the craft.”—Bakers' Times. “ A thoroughly practical handbook, abounding with useful lessons and valuable recipes.”—Lloyd's News. “ The very thing that has long been required ; comprehensive, lucid, and written by an expert. It is really an excellent book, full of infor- mation of a thoroughly practical sort.”—The People. “ This volume ought to gladden the hearts of all good confectioners, and might with advantage find its way into private houses. It is written by a practical man, in a way which will tend materially to help those who wish for help.”—South London Press. London: Crosby Lockwood & Son, 7, Stationers’ Hall Court, E.C.Ornamental Confectionery A GUIDE FOR BAKERS, CONFECTIONERS, AND PASTRYCOOKS INCLUDING A VARIETY OF MODERN RECIPES, AND REMARKS ON DECORATIVE AND COLOURED WORK ffltttf) upfoarfcfs of (Dne Original IBestgns BY ROBERT WELLS PRACTICAL BAKER, CONFECTIONER, AND PASTRYCOOK AUTHOR OF “ THE BREAD AND BISCUIT BAKER’S AND SUGAR-BOILER’S ASSISTANT” AND ‘‘THE PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER’S GUIDE” LONDON CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE HILL 1890 [All rights reserved]LONDON PRINTED BY J. S. VIRTUE AND CO., LIMITED CITY ROAD. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll welMOmec Call No. gw'PREFACE. The gratifying success which has been attained by my two previous works—“The Bread and Biscuit Baker’s and Sugar Boiler’s Assistant,” and “The Pastrycook and Confectioner’s Guide ”—has encouraged me to issue this further manual for the use of those members of our craft who desire to devote themselves to the higher branches of Con- fectionery work—of which, however (I need hardly say), it does not profess to treat exhaustively. I trust that the work will also be found useful in private families where the ladies of the house, or their cooks, aim at embellishing the table with examples of artistic work. As in the case of my other books mentioned above, I am proud to be able to add that everything given in the following pages is the outcome or suggestion of my own practical expe- rience, so that nothing appears in this book, whether in the way of instruction in the text or of illustration in the plates, which has not been verified in actual work, or found accep- table to my patrons in business.PREFACE. VI I rejoice to have had the opportunity of putting forth works for the assistance of my fellow-craftsmen, from whom I venture to bespeak as favourable a reception for the present volume as for its predecessors. Scarborough, January, 1890.CONTENTS. PAGE I.—INTRODUCTION. Preliminary . , . i Decoration as applied to Confectionery .... 2 Principles of Colour in Confectionery Work ... 5 Essentials of Good Work 7 Ornamental Sugar Work ....... 8 Work in Gum Paste 8 Icing and Piping ........ 9 The Modern Method of Ornamenting Cakes . . .11 II.—COLOURS FOR CONFECTIONERY. Cochineal 17 Carmine 18 Vegetable Carmine . . . . . . . , 19 Gamboge . 19 Saffron 20 Sap Green ......... 20 Spinach Green 20 Ivory Black ......... 20viil CONTENTS. PAGE II.— COLOURS FOR CONFECTIONERY (continued). Prussian Blue ...... Vermilion and Cinnabar .... . 20 Bol Ammoniac . 21 Colours fit to Eat ..... —ICING AND GUM PASTE WORK. To Make Icing ..... Icing for Common Goods . 22 Almond Icing for Bride Cakes • 23 Another Mode of Making Almond Icing • 23 Royal Icing ..... . 24 To Make Gum Paste .... . 24 Italian Gum Paste . . . . . • 25 Common Gum Paste .... • 25 Rice Gum Paste ..... * 25 Plaster Gum Paste . 26 Marble Gum Paste ..... . 26 To Ornament Cakes with Gum Paste . 26 Modelling Flowers in Fine Gum Paste . . 27 Small Animals in Fine Paste . . 27 Animals in Common Paste . 28 Figures in Moulds ..... . 28 Birds in Gum Paste .... . 29 Modelling Figures in Gum Paste . 29 Modelling Animals in Gum Paste . • 29 Varnish for Gum Paste .... . 29 To Gild Gum Paste • 3° Burnished Gilding • 30 Oil Gilding • 30 Mould Making ..... • 3i Plaster Moulds • 32 r.—ORNAMENTING CAKES, Etc. To Ornament a Cake as a Basket of Flowers • 33 To raise the Top of a Cake with Twisted Paste • 33 To make a Fountain on the Top of a Cake • 33 Sponge Cake as a Melon Ornamented with Fruit • 34CONTENTS. IX PAGE IV.—ORNAMENTING CAKES, Etc. {continued). Sponge Cake as a Melon Ornamented with Flowers 34 A Sponge Cake to represent a Ripe Melon 34 A Sponge Cake as a Pyramid . 35 A Sponge Cake as a Turban . 35 An Ornamented Cake as a Flower Pot 35 An Ornamented Cake as an Elephant 36 To make Custard Cups . 36 Ornamental Baskets 36 -CAKES SUITABLE FOR ICING. Bride Cakes 37 Genoa Cake 37 Modern Method for Genoa Cake 38 American Genoa Cake 38 Bristol Cake 38 School Cake ..... 38 Madeira Cakes .... 39 Citron Cake ..... 39 Rice Cake 39 Sponge Rice Cake .... 39 Marble Cake 40 -GARNISHED DISHES FOR THE TABLE. Sweet Pastry * 41 Savoury Pastry .... 41 To Garnish Fruit for Dessert . 41 Ripe Fruits 41 String Tartlets .... 41 Oyster Loaves 42 Dutch Flummery .... 42 Pineapple in Dutch Flummery 42 A Cut Paste Crocanth 43 A Floating Island .... 43 Snowballs 44 To make a Trifle .... 44 To Whip Cream .... 45 To Fill a Chantilly or Italian Basket 45CONTENTS. X PAGB VI.—GARNISHED DISHES FOR THE TABLE {continued). Blancmange ......... 45 A Pack of Cards in Blancmange . . . . -45 Roman Pavement . . . . . . . .46 Edgings for Blancmange . 46 Solomon’s Temple in Blancmange ... . 46 To make a Chantilly Basket ...... 47 To make a Chantilly Pyramid 48 To make a Chantilly Crocanth 48 Tipsy Cake 48 Meungues Rings 48 Pork Pies . 49 Ices in Fruit Moulds 50 VII.—ORNAMENTAL BUTTER WORK. To Ornament a Tongue as the Stump of a Tree with Bird’s Nest 51 To Ornament a Tongue as a Bridge . . . . . 52 Butter Pats 52 A Butter Pat as a Lamb or Bird 53 To Ornament Hams • • 53 VIII.—ORNAMENTAL WAX WORK. Wax for Modelling 54 To Make a Wax Basket 54XI CONTENTS. ILLUSTRATIVE DESIGNS. Plate. Fig. Subject. I. I Basin. 2 Revolving Icing Table. 3 Palette Knife. 4 Spatula. 5 Cake ready for Icing. 6 Iced Cake. 00 Cupids in Gum Paste. II. 9 Icing Bag and Tubes. III. 10 Cake ready for Icing. ii Almond Iced Cake. 12 Tipsy Cake. 13 Trifle. n Pork Pie. IV. 15—18 Wreaths for side of Cake. V. 19—26 Wreaths and Borders. VI. 27—34 Borders for Cakes in Gum Paste. VII. 35—38 Bunches of Grapes. VIII. 39—42 Border Sprays. IX. 43,44 Butterflies. 00 1 "3- Leaves. X. 49 Head of Bird with Twig. 50—53 Fruit. XI. 54,55 Wheatsheaf and Wheat Border. XII. 56—60 Paper Cones for Piping. XIII. 61 Bride Cake. 62 Small Cake. 63 Centre Piece. 64 Veal and Ham Pie. 65 Cake with Doves. XIV. 66, 67 Centre Pieces for Cakes. 68, 69 Doves. XV. 70—73 Centre Pieces for Cakes. XVI. 74—77 Centre Pieces for Cakes. XVII. 78—81 Centre Pieces for Cakes. .—XXII. 82—91 Designs for the top of One-storey Bride Cake.Xll CONTENTS. ILLUSTRATIVE DESIGNS (continuedf). Plate. Fig. Subject. XXIII. 92—94 Bride Cakes. XXIV. 95, 96 Bride Cakes. XXV. 97 Two-storey Bride Cake. XXVI. 98 Bride Cake in Gum Paste. XXVII. 99 Cake with Fountain. XXVIII. 100 Bride Cake with Ck.ntre Piece. XXIX. 101 Bride Cake with Centre Piece. XXX. 102 Four-storey Bride Cake. XXXI. 103 Three-storey Bride Cake with Centre Piece on Stand. XXXII. 104 Three-storey Bride Cake with Centre Piece on Stand. XXXIII. 105 One-storey Bride Cake with Centre Piece and Ornaments. XXXIV. 106 Genoa Cake, cut. 107 Bristol Cake. 108 School Cake. 109 Ornamented Fruit Cake. no Genoa Cake. III Iced Surrey Cake. 112 Malta Cake. XXXV. XI3 Sponge Savoy Mould. 114 Genoa Cake with Blanched Al- monds. 115 Cocoanut Cake. 116 Madeira Cake. 117 Citron Cake. XXXVI. 118 Dressed Ox Tongue. 119 Hedgehog Cake. 120 Marble Cake, in section. 121 Biscuit. 122 Do. 123 Do. I24 Do. 125 Do. 126 Do. 127 Do. XXXVII. 128, 129 Shortbread.ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. I. INTRODUCTION. Ornamental Confectionery has ever been admired by the curious with the greatest pleasure ; and while every industrial art, we may presume, has attained a high degree of perfection in this enlightened age, we may with truth assert that no one industry has advanced higher in the scale of improvement than the art of ornamental confectionery. The last half century has produced in this pursuit artists of the first celebrity, and their productions have been viewed with wonder and. delight. The experienced cook may serve up his covers in such excellence as to furnish a most delicious repast, but what are all his efforts if the eye is not satisfied ? Nothing can give at an entertainment so much of the plea- sures of anticipation as to observe a table sumptuously deco- rated with elegant and appropriate devices, giving splendour to the fete, an appetite to the most delicate, and gratification to all. In all the branches of confectionery knowledge is sought after with equal avidity, and we need not be surprised at this when we consider how many candidates there are for situations in noblemen’s and gentlemen’s establishments, and as these dignified employers often reside at a considerable distance from the principal town, so that it is impossible for them to be supplied with every article from manufacturers and caterers, it is absolutely necessary for chefs, pastry-cooks, housekeepers, BORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONER Y. and others, to understand the various branches of the art of the cook and confectioner. To show to what eminence members of the craft can attain, it is not so very long ago that the cook of the Cafe Paillard at Paris signed an agreement with Mr. Vanderbilt, the American millionaire, to go to New York for five years at the pay of ^£1,600 a year; and Count Zang, the first to start a Vienna bakery in Paris, has recently died, leaving a fortune of from forty to fifty millions of francs. Instances such as these help to stimulate aspirants in the trade, and to place it in almost as exalted a position as the baking trade reached in the time of the Romans, when, now and again, one of their craft was admitted among the senators. Decoration, as applied to Confectionery. Passing now to the practical questions which engage the attention of the skilled confectioner, my first observations will be on the subject of cake decoration. Decoration consists of so many different styles that it is difficult to classify them; but what is mostly used may be classed under Architectural, Floral, and what may be called Nondescript. Architecture lends itself very easily and beautifully to the decoration of cakes. Castles, towers, spires, ruins, water-mills, and such-like sub- jects may be very realistically, and at the same time artisti- cally, treated in sugar or gum paste-work, or in a combination of both. An attentive observance of the rules to be found in the following pages will insure success to those who wish to be proficient in the art. The rules I shall present to the reader have been worked out in practice in several of the principal shops in the kingdom, as well as (for many years) in my own. Architecture has borrowed all its ornaments from natural objects—that is, the best architecture—and the confectionerINTRODUCTION. 3 should do likewise. Not only castles and towers and temples, but rocks, waterfalls, pines, glaciers, snow-capped mountains, volcanoes, and scores of other natural objects, are all suitable for the principal ornament of a cake. And the confectioner may properly give scope to the imagination in seeking appro- priateness and variety for the ornamentation of his best work. Painters are very fond of depicting wedding scenes, and with a little skill and ingenuity groups of appropriate figures might be placed on the bride cake. Around the edges of the various tiers, why not run balustrades, parapets, &c., into recesses and windows, with correct tracery? In these might be placed the maiden at the window and the lover below. Surely these things are not out of harmony with a bride cake—rather do they agree with the essence of its meaning. A christening cake, again, might have the Seven Ages of Man modelled upon it, with the addition of young animals and plants. Anything, in fact, that suggests the opening out of life or growth may be introduced. The birthday cake, also, might be made to have some little meaning, if the annual seasons be shown ; or the revolving planets might carry out the idea of a year’s advance. These and hundreds of other similes might be adopted in par- ticular instances. Floral decoration is very interesting, but as carried out nowadays on wedding cakes is often most absurd. True art should be national, yet one of the principal flowers used is orange-blossom. Why we should go to a foreign country, and select the orange-blossom as a flower for decorating our cakes, passes man’s understanding. Who brought it to Britain ? What was the object of using it? Why should we slavishly follow the custom, as if there were no flowers in this Britain of ours equally good ? At least our own flowers would be British; the national sentiment would be there. We have British flowers by the hundred ready to our hands; but we must go abroad4 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. and bring flowers whose habits and surroundings we are un- acquainted with. Then notice, also, how we not only use foreign flowers, but we make creepers of plants that never creep; we stick a vase on the top of a cake, and make a drooping spray of two or three different plants, not one of which is a creeper. If a painter were to paint a pig flying, he would be smothered with ridicule, and equally ridiculous is the common practice in decoration of cakes with flowers. Now why should not some- body try natural colours for flowers? Let him take the violet, the primrose, the wild rose, the daisy, the wild crab-blossom, the cowslip, and all the flowers our British poets sing about, and ornament his cake with these. The primrose being a symbol used by a political party, surely for Conservative fes- tivities at least it might be introduced. The rose, thistle, and shamrock might also, for special occasions, be used. The blue- bell or wild hyacinth, the cuckoo pint, the water-lily, and hoc genus omne, should all be laid under contribution. The creep- ing convolvulus might be splendidly utilised. Instead of the customary wreath on a wedding cake, when a brewer’s daughter, or a brewer himself, is to be married, take the hop and let it creep round the cake; apart from its appro- priate associations in such a case, the hop itself is a charming plant. What I am venturing to urge on my brethren in the craft is to throw away the silver leaves of plants which never existed, and replace them with those that grow in our own land, gardens, or in our own hedgerows. Every leaf or flower that is foreign I would have discarded on a wedding cake, and the best of those of British growth Substituted. Have nothing unnatural among the decorations. I do not urge natural flowers, and those only; but I do urge that the artificial flowers should be made as near as possible to the natural.INTR OD UCTION. 5 Some one may ask very pertinently, “ If we put a model of a building on the top of the cake, will not the leaves of the flowers, &c., be always proportionately too large?” Yes, we say ; if you let the leaves of the flowers cover any part of the model; they must be kept well away; your own eye will tell you that. If we had to make a cake and put a castle on the top, it would not be beyond our capacity to make the cake roughly represent a natural hill, with rocks, woods, waterfalls, &c., about it, so that it should look like a model of a natural object. It might be shaped with a knife first, and then covered with almond paste and sugar-work. By nondescript decoration we mean the extraordinary shapes that some people put on cakes by means of pipes. We may call them dots, or drops, or festoons, or curves, or whatever you like; but what are they? what do they represent? Can any man, looking at them, say that is “ such a thing,” and this is “ such a plant ” ? No, they are utterly meaningless, and therefore senseless. Scrolls and all these things are very good if they are representations of some natural objects—not neces- sarily exactly true in every particular; they may be imitations, and imitations only. Principles of Colour in Confectionery Work. Of the cakes here referred to, wedding and christening cakes have quite distinct associations connected with colour—or rather the want of it—from those of Christmas and birthdays, so that they require different treatment. Let us take the two which are so closely associated with bright and strong colours —Christmas and birthday cakes. How often do we see these over-decorated—a fault common to all low art—and the colours so inharmoniously blended that an artist instinctively turns away from the object as from something painful. The confec- tioner is not to know this unless he is taught; but how can he6 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONER Y. learn ? Why, let him go to a picture-gallery, and, taking a pic- ture by a good artist, note on a piece of paper the colours of the same, their varied proportions, and the relative degree of brightness of each colour. Let him watch the setting sun, and see the tints of the sky : here is harmony of colour in Nature’s own book; see how while one colour fades another has changed at the same time, and so on. The three colours from which all others come are yellow, red, and blue. Each of them has its appropriate opposite contrasted—or, as artists call them, complementary colours— which are known as secondary. The opposite of yellow is purple; of red, green ; of blue, orange. Whenever you see a picture with any one of these colours in, you are sure to find its opposite. The orange corn-field has its blue sky; the green wood its red cottage; the yellow fields their purple mists. It is on this basis that confectioners should work, and if they follow these fundamental lines they cannot get wrong. White and black are not called colours by artists, so that when you make .your cake with white sugar you are like the painter who copies the snow-covered ground. Red, green, and blue go well with this ; if the marking-be yellow, then purple, and blue, and red, and so on. Self-training in these days in the elements of knowledge of a general character is now comparatively simple and easy; it is really within the certain scope of all; and we are perfectly sure that he who follows his vocation in the enlightened spirit of one really desiring to equip his mind properly for each task before him, is the man who is bound in the issue to attain to eminence in his craft—be that what it may; and for him, indeed, the prize of supreme success is not only possible, but probable.INTRODUCTION. 7 Essentials of Good Work. Of all things necessary to be observed by the worker in con- fectionery, cleanliness is most essential; for although you may attend to the directions to be found in the following pages with the greatest care, yet be assured that if cleanliness is neglected you will ultimately fail. The utensils used must be free from every sort of grease and perfectly dry. In baking, be careful to have just such a degree of heat in your oven as may be directed, the baking of articles being a very material point. I have seen a very indifferent mixture made a passable article by a proper heat in the oven, and, on the other hand, a good mixture spoiled bv an improper heat. Experience and atten- tion will prove this assertion. Some persons are very curious in the directions they give even to a moment in the time proper for mixing cakes and biscuits, and that part of the work is sometimes protracted to a great length, which is quite unneces- sary and tedious; it being easier, say, to whisk up a quantity of whites of eggs in fifteen or twenty minutes than in a much longer time, or to cream a mixing of cakes in the same time, provided you observe the rules recommended in preparing for mixing. Have every article provided beforehand, and weigh each as arranged in the recipe you are following. The sugar and flour must be perfectly dry; currants for fruit cakes must be washed a day before they are wanted, and must be clear of stones and stalks ; sugar for cakes must be good castor sugar of the best quality (for sponge-cake mixtures I prefer granu- lated sugar); sugar for icing cakes and for gum paste must be of the very finest lump (commonly called icing sugar); the butter must be perfectly sweet, and before it is used it should be worked on a marble slab to make it smooth; salt butter made from poor land makes the best puff paste, and is most proper for ornamental work, but it must be washed in two orORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. three waters, whereas for every kind of cake it cannot be too rich (this ought to be made a special note of). Spices for cakes, &c,, must greatly depend on your own choice. Brandy or wine is proper for all large cakes, and these must be baked in tin or wooden hoops, well papered with three or four doubles, and buttered on the inside. Frames, moulds, and shapes for sponge cakes must be buttered with sweet butter, and a dust of icing sugar thrown over them, in order to make them deliver smoothly. Ornamental Sugar Work. To enter into a copious dissertation on the different methods of building centre pieces, and their dependents for the table, would be attended with much labour, and would after all con- vey neither instruction nor amusement, for this branch of con- fectionery, as well as some others, may with justice be styled a system of mechanism, as much so as a clock or a watch. But such instructions as I think may be useful I shall feel pleasure in trying to make as clear as possible. The task, however, is rather a difficult one, as there is no precedent to go by, for I have never seen a book of designs for ornamental confec- tionery, and I would advise all learners to avail themselves of an opportunity to take a few lessons in this branch from a practical workman, whose instructions, together with those of this work, should make them proficient in the whole science. Work in Gum Paste. The making of articles in gum paste is one of the most interesting branches of the confectioner’s art. This mode of decoration and embellishment was once in great vogue, and the most magnificent and costly ornaments have been made of gum paste, but it has fallen comparatively into disuse, and (what is worse for the confectioner) the fragments of the artINTRODUCTION. 9 have been transferred to pastrycooks and cooks, who have disfigured, if not destroyed, the most beautiful part of the work of the confectioner. For good work in gum paste, great care and dexterity, much patience, some knowledge of mythology and history, and of the arts of modelling and design, are requisite—qualifications which are seldom possessed by the mere pastrycook. W. A. Jarrin, the Italian confectioner, tells us in his valuable book, that at a dinner given by the city of Paris to Napoleon I., the Emperor of the French, on his triumphant return from Germany, he con- structed a group two feet in height. The Emperor—whose figure in the composition bore a striking resemblance to the great original—was represented standing, in the act of sheath- ing his sword, and as led by Victory, who was attended by several allegorical figures representing the various high qualities so liberally attributed by the French to Napoleon, so long as success attended him. This group was made for the centre of the table, and the Emperor, who rarely noticed anything which ornamented the table, observed his portrait, and with his characteristic attentiveness to works of ingenuity, was pleased to encourage the artist by expressing his approbation. Icing and Piping. I am more than surprised that practical confectioners and others who have been in a position to give good advice on the art of icing and piping, in royal icing, have said or published so little on the subject. It cannot be from want of knowledge, and the reason for their silence is not easily understood. I am sure there is a splendid field open for them in this branch of our business. Neither W. A. Jarrin (whom I consider the father of confectionery) nor Charles Elme Francatelli, nor Gunter (in the Modern Confectioner), does more than touch upon it, and I hope I shall not be considered too presumptuousi o ORNA MENTA L CONFE CTIONER Y. in trying to break down the diffidence that others display in relation to this subject. Royal icing is used generally for covering and ornamenting bride cakes, christening, birthday, twelfth-night, and other cakes. After your cake is iced it is necessary to have at hand a variety of icing tubes, a selection of which will be seen in the illustrations (Plate No. II.), or I would advise a pupil to get some paper cones (see Plate No. XII.) made in the shape of a funnel, and cut at the ends in a variety of designs. Half fill them with good tough lard, and practise with it till you think you are able to work in icing. A pupil will find that he needs to have some knowledge of drawing, and some acquaintance with the laws of harmony and: perspective, as well as to study colours and their effects, besides a tolerable amount of actual practice, to make him proficienf in the art; but do not let that deter him from trying to do his best, remembering that a strong will, with industry and per- severance, will overcome many obstacles. The variety of flowers which a pupil may imitate is some- what restricted owing to the icing material being of a soft nature, so that it will not bear any complication of design. The flowers easiest to imitate with success are daisies, violets, pinks, heartsease, marigolds, roses, pansies, and the like. Orna- ments of a purely fanciful style are easiest of execution, from the fact that more or less precision in the details is not so strikingly perceptible, but this is not the case with regard to architectural and monumental designs. There the strictest regularity is a matter of the first moment, for unless such structures will bear the closest scrutiny from a practised eye what you have attempted to execute may prove a complete failure. And let me impress on a beginner that before he attempts to work out a design, or set of designs, for a cake, he should first sketch out a plan of the design he intends to execute, taking11 INTRODUCTION. its dimensions, style, &c. He must also draw out a scale for the foundation, and the joining of the different parts required to complete the whole. The Modern Method of Ornamenting Cakes. A wooden or iron stand should be procured (see illustration, Plate I.) having a circular top fitted into a socket. The top is so constructed as to revolve, and may be made to revolve at any speed to suit the convenience of the icer. The stands are made of different sizes, so that the cake intended to be iced overlaps the circular top by, say, half an inch. The operator thus has full command of the cake, and it is surprising to see at what speed an ornamental cake can be finished and made ready for display. One can well remember the time when ornamenting bride and other cakes was considered one of the chief secrets of the trade, and very often an inefficient workman (who nevertheless fancied himself the “ leading light ” of the firm for whom he worked) would actually lock himself in a room for days at a time—coming out only for meals—afraid to let anyone see his wondrous workmanship until the finishing touch had been given, when his comrades in the shop would be permitted to gaze on the work of art he had completed. Very often it would be a piece of work which a girl in one of our cake fac- tories would nowadays disdain to own, with the icing as often as not running off the cake, leaving a big patch of cake visible, or with the ornamental work—such as scrolls, festoons, worms, or whatever shape it was called—twisted, or in some cases sunk out of sight in the icing of the cake. What a great change has now come to pass compared with that state of things. Contrast, for instance, the work of the girls who were employed at the late Glasgow Exhibition, and the real works of art that were turned out there, and at what speed ! I am12 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. proud to say that some of these young ladies can handle the piping tubes as smartly as some of their sempstress sisters can handle a needle. No mystery there; no locking of doors there. In some of our leading factories it is really surprising to see how rapidly an iced cake is got out—sometimes thou- sands of cakes in one day, and it is interesting for an outsider to watch the different processes a cake has to go through till the finish is reached. First there is the creaming, then the baking; then the cake has to be stripped, topped, and orna- mented on the top ; and after drying, plain iced, bordered, and finished, taken to the drying-room to dry, then papered, and, last of all, packed ready for the market. To make a design for a cake, cut out a number of circles from cartridge paper the size of the cake you want to orna- ment ; work out different designs on them, and select what you think will suit you best for the top of the cake. I have made a nice border for a cake by simply using the leaf tube, and gently working the hand up and down evenly, going on the same way all round the cake. A piece of good workman- ship can be displayed with a horse-shoe tube, especially if the tube is in the hands of an experienced person. Some twenty years ago, when in London on a short visit, I was taking a ramble in the East End, and (as our craft is very apt to do) was criticising in my own mind any work of art seen in the bakers’ and confectioners’ windows. I came across a window that arrested my attention, in which were twelve or fourteen ornamented cakes—one, two, and three-decker high. One cake that arrested my attention in particular was a three-decker, each tier or storey being decorated with what confectioners call chains—that is, putting a row of dots round the cake and running a string of icing on the top of the dots to form a chain. The chain generally hangs down in a half circle, and at that time there was nothing13 INTR OD UCTION. unusual in a confectioner bordering his cake in that way; but this particular cake had the chain or half circle turned up instead of down. I wondered and tried to think how it could be done, but try as much as I liked I could not see how the soft icing was to keep that half-circle position. Had it been gum paste I could have understood it, but being royal icing I could not. I went three or four times to that shop window to try and master that particular position of the half-circle, but could not manage it, until the very day I was leaving London I went to take a last look, and presto ! the secret was out. Since my last visit one or two of the chains had got broken, and there, neatly put on the cake was a row of small wires made in half-circles and the chains piped neatly over the wires, forming as neat a design and as prettily finished a cake as one could have seen or desired. Another simple and effective method by which chains may be made to stand upright on a cake—where the cake is not too large and the handling of it is practicable—is to turn your cake upside down on the icing stand and pipe chains to your fancy round the cake; let the cake stand inverted until the chains are thoroughly dry, then turn the cake into its upright position, and proceed to pipe and ornament.RECIPES.II. COLOURS FOR CONFECTIONERY. Before proceeding to the subjects of icing and gum paste work, I will give here the mode of preparing colours for con- fectionery, as suggested by W. A. Jarrin. The colours used in ornamental confectionery (it may be mentioned) are generally harmless; and in point of fact no one thinks of eating an ornament or figure, yet such colours as vermilion, verdigris, yellow ochre, and others which are poison- ous, should be avoided wherever possible. Cochineal. In choosing cochineal you should see that it be large, clean, and dry, of a silvery shining colour, and when bruised of a dark red. To prepare it, take i oz. of cochineal, and pound it well. Make a soft lye with wood-ashes boiled in water, clearing it off through a flannel bag; take i pint of it, let it boil up, and put in your cochineal. (If you cannot obtain wood- ashes, you can substitute 2 ozs. of wormwood salts dissolved in 1 pint of water.) Pound % oz. of alum and \ oz. of cream of tartar, and add them to the cochineal, and reduce it by boiling till it becomes of a very dark fine red. If it is for keeping add pulverised sugar. You may use this colour in everything, particularly in gum paste, compotes, preserves, jellies, ices, &c. ci8 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. Carmine. Carmine No. i is’the best, though the dearest, as the inferior article is generally adulterated with cinnabar; but you may easily manufacture carmine, as follows: Take a boiler suffi- ciently large to contain 2\ pailfuls of river water, perfectly clear, put it on the fire, and when it boils shake in gently i lb. of cochineal ground in a new coffee-mill, stir it with a clean hair pencil, and if the heat be too great lessen your fire and throw in a glass of cold water, that the cochineal may not boil over; let it boil for half-an-hour, and then add an alkaline lye, prepared as follows : Boil f oz. of pulverised soda in 2 quarts of water for eight or ten minutes, take it off, filter it, put it into your cochineal and let it boil up five or six times; take off the boiler, place it in a slanting position that the cochineal may deposit, and add to it f oz. of powdered alum; stir it well to dissolve the alum, and let it stand for twenty-five minutes. See if it takes a fine scarlet colour. Pour off the liquor very gently into another clean boiler, and do not stir it much so as to avoid dividing the deposit. Beat up the whites of 2 eggs in a pint of water, and pour the mixture into the colour. Stir it well, put the boiler on the fire till it nearly boils, when the whites of the eggs will coagulate and precipitate with the colouring particles which are to form the carmine. Take the boiler off and let the carmine settle for twenty-five minutes, then pour off the liquid till you see the carmine at the bottom; it will be like thick milk. Pour it into an earthen pan or bowl, strain it through a fine cloth to let the moisture run from it, and drain the carmine. You must strain the liquid several times until it is quite clear. When the carmine is drained, and has a proper consistence, take it up with a silver spoon, lay it on plates to dry in the stove, and when dry grind it on the stone.19 PREPARING COLOURS. Vegetable Carmine. Take 2 lbs. of Brazil-wood, 2 ozs. of cochineal, 2 ozs. rock alum, 2 ozs. sal-ammoniac, 8 ozs. spirit of salt, 1 lb. of nitric acid, 8 ozs. of pewter filings, and 2 ozs. of cream of tartar. Divide the alum into four parts, and boil the Brazil-wood in 8 pints of water with the pulverised cochineal tied in a piece of cloth; when reduced to half, take it from the fire, put into it one of your parcels of alum, strain the decoction through a cloth into a pan, and put back the chips on the fire with the same quantity of water; reduce it as at first, strain it off, and repeat the process four times ; put in one part of the alum each time. At the last boiling add 2 ozs. of sal-ammoniac, and put the whole together into a pan, keeping it warm; put your nitric acid into a long-necked bottle with the 8 ozs. of spirit of salt; place it in a pan full of water, fix it so as not to move, warm the water more than lukewarm, and put in your pewter filings by small quantities, and continue this gradually as you see it dissolve. When the whole is dissolved pour it into the decoction, mix it well, strain it through a cloth, and let it stand for twenty-four hours; then pour off the yellow water till you come to the colour. Fill up your pan with clean water, and repeat this morning and evening for eight days, when you will find the water quite clear, leaving no salt or acid in the colour. Keep it in a pot for use, always having some clean water on it to preserve it in a liquid state. Gamboge. This is a gum, and must be dissolved in cold or lukewarm water. If used to colour gum paste in large quantities, it would act as an emetic and cathartic.20 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONER Y. Saffron. This should be chosen very dry and soft, in long shreds of a fine red colour, and of a pleasant balsamic taste. When required for use, it must be infused in warm water. It is a good stomachic. Sap Green. This is prepared from the fruit of the buckthorn. It is in a hard paste, and must be dissolved in water for use to paint gum paste. It is not good to eat in large quantities. Spinach Green. Take the necessary quantity of spinach, pound it well, and squeeze the juice through a cloth; put it in a pan on a strong fire, stir it with a spoon, and as soon as you see it look curdy take it off the fire and strain the liquor through a silk sieve. What remains on the sieve will be the colouring matter. Ivory Black. This is made with ivory cut in small pieces, and calcined in the fire in a covered pot or crucible till it ceases smoking. It is only used to paint gum paste. Prussian Blue. Prussian blue is to be prepared by the confectioner, though it must be used sparingly. The turnsole and indigo afford a bad colour. Vermilion and Cinnabar. These are two different shades of a lively red colour; they are equally dangerous, and should never be used in confec- tionery unless absolutely indispensable.21 COLOURS FIT TO EAT. Bol Ammoniac. This is of a reddish colour, something like cinnamon, and is used for gilding or to paint gum paste, as well as brown umber and bistre. The colours above mentioned are those used to paint gum paste. They are ground on a marble slab, and are moistened with water and a little gum-arabic dissolved and strained through a cloth, with a pinch of fine powdered sugar or sugar- candy. The gum is to fix the colour, and the sugar to make it shine. If you have no gum, you may use isinglass; but then the colour must be warm. Colours Fit to Eat are cochineal, carmine (diluted), saffron, spinach green, Prus- sian blue, and colours made with chocolate and caramel. Caramel should be diluted with a little water, as it goes fur- ther than the dry powder. Yet in some cases it must be used dry, as with royal icing, and in articles for the small oven. Saffron must be infused in hot water, consequently you must put the necessary quantity to your sugar a moment before it is done. It will require a few minutes more boiling, as the saffron will lessen the degrees of heat. Spinach green is used to colour opaque bodies. Such as are transparent must be coloured with a little Prussian blue, mixed with yellow. If blue alone be wanted, it must be ground with a little water, taking care to use but a small quantity of it. Browns may be made of chocolate, a strong decoction of coffee, or caramel burnt and dissolved in water. Violet colour is made with red and blue : orange with saffron and red; and green with yellow and blue.Put the glue in a basin, and pour over it i pint of boiling III. ICING AND GUM PASTE WORK. To make Icing. Take some pure icing sugar and sift it through a lawn sieve ; then take any number of whites of eggs and put them into a large pan or basin; mix the sugar pretty stiff, and add one tablespoonful of soft gum-dragon prepared for the purpose; beat all together with a spatter, adding a little lemon juice at intervals, or add a pinch of tartaric acid, which will assist the colour; keep beating it up until very light (this you may know by its rising to more than double the quantity, which is a cer- tain criterion). If you want icing for cakes, you must test the stiffness of it by taking a little up with a scraper and dropping it on a tin plate; if it keeps its shape it is proper to lay on cakes, but if it runs it must be made stiffen N.B.—Gum-dragon proper for icing must be put in water two days at least before wanted, and must be nearly as thin as white of egg; when wanted for use it should be strained through a clean cloth. Icing for Common Goods. Instead of whites of eggs, you may use % oz. of French glue to i pint of boiling water, when icing is required for common goods only.ALMOND ICING. 2 3 water, stirring with a spoon till all is dissolved. When nearly cold, pour the solution into a bottle, and keep it corked. When wanted for use, place the bottle on the oven mouth, or some warm place, to liquefy the glue. Use it in the same manner as directed above, instead of the white of egg, taking care to add a squeeze of lemon to flavour it. The quantities required of the other ingredients will depend on the strength of the glue, and they must be carefully modi- fied accordingly. I prefer this mode of making icing even to using fresh eggs; and it is a long way superior to icing pre- pared with the watery “ box eggs ” that are getting into such common use. If carefully prepared in anything like the proper proportions it will make a whiter and a tougher icing, and the cost is nominal. Almond Icing for Bride Cakes. Take i lb. of Valentia almonds, 2 lbs. of sugar, and about 4 or 5 whites of eggs (some prefer part or all yolks). Blanch and beat the almonds fine with white of egg; then add the sugar and whites ; beat them well together, and make them into a softish paste. As soon as the cake is baked take it out and take off the hoop and the paper carefully from the sides, then put the almond icing carefully on the top of the cake, and make it as smooth as you can; put it into the oven, and let it remain until the almond paste is enough set and the colour of a macaroon; let it stand two or three hours, and then ice it with sugar icing. Another Mode of making Almond Icing. Weigh 3 lbs. of ground almonds and 2 lbs. 10 ozs. of either castor or icing sugar, and mix almonds and sugar together on the table; make a slight bay, so as not to leave the table bare ; put in as many eggs as will make this into a good stiff workingORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. 24 paste—say about 8 eggs to the above quantity—using both yolks and whites. After you have made the above into a paste mould it round and lay it on your cake, dressing it round the cake with your hands. Put in a dry place to dry till the folowing day. This I think will be found the best and most expeditious mode of making almond icing. Royal Icing. To make icing sugar for ornamental purposes, take any quantity of the very finest sifted lump sugar and the whites of eggs with lemon juice ; or take i lb. of sugar and the whites of 3 eggs, with a pinch of tartaric acid, using more or less white of egg according to the consistence required. Break your whites into a basin, and with your spatula beat up the whites, adding the sugar gradually, and the acid can be put in after you have made it of the consistence required. Beat it well up till made as white as snow, and keep beating it up till very light, which you may know by its rising to more than double the quantity in the basin, this being a certain criterion. If you want icing for cakes you must test the stiffness of it by taking up a little with a spoon and dropping it on a plate; if it keeps its shape it is ready for use, but if it runs it must be made stiffer. To make Gum Paste. Put any quantity of picked gum-dragon into an upright earthen jar, cover it with cold water, and let it stand two or three days ; after that time beat and sift fine loaf sugar through a lawn or Cypress sieve, take the gum into a coarse piece of canvas, and let another person assist you in twisting it round until the whole is passed through; beat it well in the mortar to make it tough and white; then add sugar by degrees, still beating it with the pestle, and when it is stiff take it out, and keep it in an earthen jar for use. When it is worked into orna-GUM PASTE. 25 ments it will require a little starch powder to smooth and make it proper for use. If you wish to colour any part of it use lake finely ground, or for yellow use strong saffron, and for green the juice of spinach. Italian Gum Paste. This is made as follows :—The gum-dragon, which is the principal ingredient, should be white and light, and every little spot on it should be scraped off with a penknife. Put into a pan the required quantity of gum, and pour water on it to wash it, which you may do twice; when clean put fresh water on it to dissolve it, from one to two inches above the gum ; let it stand for twenty-four hours, then crush it with a spaddle, strain it very thick through a cloth that it may be clean, and let two persons wring the cloth. When the gum is strained pound it in a mortar, adding some extremely fine powdered sugar, a very little at a time. The great art in making this paste white is the using of very fine sugar and gum, and having the mortar, as well as every- thing used for it, perfectly clean. The use of lemon juice or any other supposed secret is mere fancy. When the paste breaks in pulling it is done. Keep it in a pot covered with a wet cloth. This kind of paste should be used in every such composi- tion which is intended to be eaten. Common Gum Paste. This is made like the fine, except that to the sugar you pound it with is added some starch powdered very fine—half sugar and half starch. It may be made of a still more com- mon quality by using one quarter of sugar only. Rice Gum Paste. For this preparation use rice flour instead of starch.26 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. Plaster Gum Paste. Moisten some fine plaster of Paris with water, and let it set; dry it perfectly in the stove, and reduce it again to powder; wet, dry, and pound it again. To take out the remaining heat, sift it through a silk sieve, and use it to fill the gum-dragon instead of sugar. Marble Gum Paste is made in the same manner as plaster gum-paste, using marble dust instead of sugar, of which there is to be none in neither of these pastes. Either plaster or marble gum paste may be hardened with a little powdered starch. The paste must be used half-dry to fix it, as it is apt to shrink very much. These two pastes are only used for ornament. To Ornament Cakes with Gum Paste. The gum paste must be tough with gum, and worked up to a proper stiffness with starch powder. Before you use the moulds they must be dusted with starch powder tied up in a piece of cloth. The paste must be rolled out on a marble slab, then put tight down into the moulds, and cut off with a smooth sharp knife. Take out as many borders as will go round the bottom of the cake, and lay them on a straight board; if they do not come out very readily put a bit of gum paste to them in different parts, give the mould a touch, jerk it, and the border will come out immediately. Then touch the first border with a camel-hair pencil dipped in thin gum water, place it neatly on the bottom of the cake, and so on until it is orna- mented round. Be careful to make the joinings so as not to be observed. Then take out more borders of a different pat- tern for the top, after which take out trophies for the sides,ANIMALS IN PASTE. 27 top, and ends ; or if you wish to raise the cake you may model a family crest, or any other device you please. Modelling Flowers in Fine Gum Paste. Divide your paste into the principal colours—as white, red, blue, and yellow—and with these colours make the compounds green, violet, dark and pale orange, employing the colour nearest to that of the flower you intend to represent; for ex- ample, in modelling a rose you must have for the calyx of the flower (for which you will have wooden mould) you will re- quire paste coloured green ; the heart you must model in yellow paste, fixing it by a wire to the calyx, and with a little saffron cut fine and moistened with gum arabic you can imi- tate the seed. Roll out your red paste very fine, and with a tin cutter cut out the leaves; take them singly, and with a model- ling tool roll them in your hand as thin as nature; then take up the leaves and fix them one by one round the heart. When you have fixed a sufficient quantity of leaves, push * the calyx in the mould and finish the whole, so as to imitate nature in the best possible manner. Small Animals in Fine Paste are commonly made with the double moulds, giving the back and front representations of the objects, which are afterwards to be joined together; you must push the whole quantity of fronts you would have, and place them in order on boards or very smooth plates, that they may dry perfectly straight, taking care when you push them to put pieces of fine wire in the legs, &c., as they are apt to break. The next day you push the backs, which you must loosen gently in the moulds. Put the dry fronts to the backs, touching the fronts with some liquid paste inside, that the two parts may stick each to the other, * Everything made in a hollow mould is said to be pushed.28 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. and with a modelling tool join each figure exactly, smoothing it off with a hair-pencil brush, dipped in water. Colour after- wards according to requirements. Animals in Common Paste. Articles made in common paste should be pushed back and front the same day, as this paste shrinks. When done put them by on an even board till the next day, but they must not be placed in the heat, as they will dry enough without it. To join them wet a marble slab all over with a sponge, and on this place six or eight backs and faces; let them stand a few minutes; then take one of each and rub it a little on the damp marble, in order to moisten the paste, which will enable you to stick the articles together. Finish them as above. Figures in Moulds. Figures are moulded in the same manner as fruit, and are taken from the mould by moistening a piece of paste and applying it to the figures, which will stick to the paste. The shortest and best way is to strike the mould with a mallet, and the figure will come out directly; but in this case the moulds must be bound with iron, or the strokes of the mallet (which must be struck on the same side as the figure) will split the board. They have to be joined together and finished in like manner with the animals. I have referred, in the above directions, to figures cast in moulds only; but, without dispute, much better work can be accomplished by modelling by hand than by the use of moulds, as the modeller can give a degree of grace and naturalness to his figures which it is impossible to obtain by the other mode. It is not so difficult to learn the art of modelling as may be supposed. Accustom yourself to handle the paste, and how-29 VARNISH FOR GUM PASTE. ever bad your first attempts may be, strive to improve on them by copying from nature or a good representation; and with patience and perseverance you may confidently reckon on be- coming a good modeller. Birds in Gum Paste. Make the body of the bird in the same manner as for ani- mals ; have the wings carved on wood according to the size of the bird, push them, and paint when dry. Modelling Figures in Gum Paste. Model the limbs by hand, and fix on the head with a wire, and afterwards dress the figure; make every part of the drapery of its proper colour. To model the hand you must divide the fingers with a pair of scissors, and mark the nails and joints with a modelling tool. This method will be found much better than pushing the figures in wooden models, as is usually done. Modelling Animals in Gum Paste. Make your paste of the natural colour of the animal (that is, without its coat), roll the paste of the necessary length and thickness—let us suppose for a sheep—model the end of your paste to the head, give it the attitude, then model and fix on the legs, and let it dry. When dry repair it neatly with a pen- knife and a bit of sand-paper, or a file; then take some very white paste, make it rather thin with water, and cover it thinly all over; and with a notched quill form the frilled appearance of the wool, and comb the animal’s body with it to imitate nature. Varnish for Gum Paste. Take £ lb. of gum-arabic or Senegal, and dissolve in warm3° ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. water; beat up the whites of six eggs, throw them into a sieve to receive their oil, and mix it with the gum; take f lb. of fine sugar, clarify it, and boil it to the blow, take it from the fire, and add a glass of spirits of wine. When cold, mix the whole, and bottle it for use. If too thick when wanted add a little spirits of wine. This varnish is perfectly harmless. To Gild Gum Paste. Take gum-arabic dissolved and strained very clean, grind it with nearly an equal quantity of white sugar candy, making it rather stiff; spread it with a pencil (which must be rather hard) on the parts you wish to gild. When dry, breathe on the part and apply the gold leaf; when this has dried, take off the gold that has not fixed with a fine hair pencil, and your gild- ing will be bright. Burnished Gilding. Take bol ammoniac about the size of a nut, sugar candy about the size of your thumb, and grind them together dry * beat up the white of an egg, and throw it on a sieve to receive its oil, which you must use to grind the mixture again. Put a thin coat on the article you mean to gild, but do not put on your gold till the egg is perfectly dry. When you put on the gold leaf, wet the part with cold water. Oil Gilding. Put a light coat of isinglass on your gum paste when dry, and see that it has taken equally ; if not, give it another coat; when perfectly dry take some prepared linseed oil, lay it on equally and lightly with a pencil rather bluntly ; dry it till it sticks to your fingers when you touch it; apply your gold, and fill the hollows with the broken and waste parts of it; rub it with a dry pencil, to make it take equally, and become3i MOULD MAKING. uniformly brilliant. The time necessary for drying varies very much according to the goodness of the oil, the season, and the heat of the room; sometimes six hours are sufficient, but at times twelve hours are required. Mould Making. The art of moulding and counter-moulding is one of con- siderable utility, as by means of it we obtain with ease from casts of figures already made, moulds which it would have been very difficult and expensive to engrave. By the practice of this art, however, we have only to procure a good cast of an object we approve, and from this we are enabled to form our own mould at a very trifling expense. You must proceed as follows :—Almost all the small figures, or animals made in France or Germany being executed in common paste, they are consequently liable to take damp. Put the figures you wish to mould into a pasteboard or deal box, between two towels or other linen; place them in a cellar for eight days, or if made of very common paste even three days will be sufficient. They may then be easily parted in two with the blade of a knife, and then moulded. These figures are generally put together with light paste, moistened with water, but whatever the cement may be that part of the figure where it is joined is the weakest, consequently by putting them on a warm stove or in an oven, the great dryness which takes place will open your figures in two parts. If they are made of fine sugar, you must have two figures alike, placing the back of one to the face of the other on wet linen. You can easily fit them together afterwards. Place them on a marble to receive the composition, and if your mould is in plaster, you must put some prepared linseed oil on it, that the sugar may not melt.ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONER Y. 32 Plaster Moulds. Take the vase or figure you intend to mould, whether in wood or any other composition, and according to its form prepare to make your mould in two or four parts or divisions. With a view to its delivering well, put round each of these divisions a fillet or wall of pipeclay, to retain the liquid plaster and prevent it from running over. Run some plaster in it about 2 inches thick, and when it is set (which you will know by its being hot) take that piece or division off, repair it neatly, and with a knife cut notches in the edges, that the parts may fit closely when joined. Oil it with a hair pencil, and put it again on the object with pipeclay. Repeat the operation with another division, and you will have then one half of your mould formed in two pieces. Repair and cut notches in the fresh quarter, that the parts may fit each other and be firm. Make the other two divisions in the manner already described, and you will then have the whole of your mould in four pieces. These you must dry in the stove, and when dry you may harden them by rubbing on some linseed oil, dry afterwards again in the oven, and oil and dry several times as before.IV. ORNAMENTING CAKES, ETC. To Ornament a Cake as a Basket of Flowers. Bake a sponge cake in a tin mould in the shape of a basket, ornament it as such, and twist a wreath of gum paste round the top; make two handles of gum paste, and place them at each end; then model flowers of different sorts, and fill the basket well with them. To Raise the Top of a Cake with Twisted Paste. Roll a piece of gum paste perfectly even upon a marble slab, and lay it upon a smooth board ; with a ruler and a sharp knife cut it square; take hold of each end and give it a twist, turn the ends, and twist them together to make a small loop; twist a number of squares in this way, and lay them on an even board; next morning, set them up on their sides, with soft gum paste, as many as will make an oval on the top of the cake; let them dry and then fix another round upon them, and so on until they reach to a point. This makes a very neat finish when well executed. To make a Fountain on the Top of a Cake. Roll out a piece of gum paste square as described above, cut it into long lengths, twist them, and lay them on a smooth board, bend them towards one end, and so on until you have a good number in the same way; then turn a piece of paste D34 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. about 3 inches long upon a round ruler; next morning set it up in the middle of the top of the cake, fix it with soft gum paste and as many gum paste leaves as will go round it. When dry, fix the crooked paste round it in different heights so as to represent a fountain. This device makes a beautiful middle piece for a small table or an end or corner piece for a large one. Sponge Cake as a Melon ornamented with Fruit. Take a nice sponge cake baked in a melon mould, roll out long lengths of gum paste very fine, and place one in each niche of the cake; then lay gum paste leaves at a distance on each side of the stalk ; after which roll out a piece of paste the thickness of a natural stalk, cut it aslant at one end, about 2 inches in length, lay on one end of the melon four or five leaves and in the middle fix the stalk before named ; then model fruit, such as apricots, grapes, pears, and plums; fix them on the leaves, placed in the niches of the cake. If well executed, they will have a pleasing effect. Sponge Cake as a Melon ornamented with Flowers. Place strings of gum paste as before directed in the niches of the melon, then leaves, on which fix flowers of different sorts, which if you cannot model yourself you may procure of any ornamental confectioner. A Sponge Cake to represent a Ripe Melon. Make a large basinful of very light icing, as in instructions given for royal icing, then divide it into three basins, and colour one a very pale yellow green, another a darker green, and the third darker still; lay the melon cake with the top downwards, and ice the end lying uppermost with the palest green icing, putting a tinge or two of the other colour; then35 ORNAMENTING CANES. set it in a warm stove to dry, after which turn it and ice the top neatly with the palest green, then in parts with the second colour, and after that with the third. Care must be taken that the icing is no<t too thin. Let it stand in a warm stove for half an hour, after which put it in a moderate oven for five minutes, which will make it sprout a little. When cold place a very short gum paste stalk at one end of the same colour. A Sponge Cake as a Pyramid. Provide a mould in the shape of a pyramid, and bake a sponge cake neatly in it; or you may procure single heights which may be much easier. To do this, provide a rim made of tin, the size of the bottom of the dish, and two or three inches deep; then procure five or six rims the same depth and the same shape, but each one inch less, which will bring it to a small oval. When baked cut off each at the tin, and fix them together with a little icing; ornament each height with a handsome border, and place birds in different attitudes on the pyramid. This will make a superb dish if ornamented with taste. A Sponge Cake as a Turban. Provide a copper mould in the shape of a turban and bake a sponge cake neatly in it. When cold ornament it with some handsome borders on the foldings, cutting off the bottom part of the borders to make them represent rich lace; then fix one or two feathers on the side, which will give it a neat effect. An Ornamental Cake as a Flower Pot. Bake a sponge cake in a small flower pot; make a layer of gum paste, of the same colour as the cake, in the bottom of the flower pot. Next morning fix the cake upon it and ornament both in a handsome manner; then cover the top of36 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONER Y. the cake with writing paper, wash it over with gum water, and cover it with green or brown rough sugar; tie five or seven pieces of cap wire together at one end, open the other, and brush them over with soft green paste ; when dry wrap a piece of writing paper round the bottom part, and force it down into the cake; fix on each wire a gum paste flower; either roses or carnations will have a pleasing effect if flavoured with the proper essence. An Ornamented Cake as an Elephant, Bake a sponge cake in a copper mould of this shape, and, when cold, turn a very handsome border round each leg. As soon as that work is dry set it on its feet; then turn a border round its nose and ears; let a handsome ornament fall down its forehead, and ornament the back so as to represent a castle, in which you may place several figures of Indians with white turbans, and one or two of them with flags in their hands. To make Custard Cups. Take turkey’s eggs; cut each across at the thick part (five make a set); dry the inside of the shells, then roll out pink or blue gum paste very thin, and cover each shell with it, and the tops also; model five small pedestals, and fix one cup upon each. When dry ornament them neatly with white gum paste, and put a small leaf upon the top to take hold of. If you finish them neatly they will be both useful and ornamental. Ornamental Baskets. There are various designs for baskets, for which tin moulds are sold. Having chosen the shape you prefer cut off your gum paste from the mosaic board and place it neatly in the mould. When dry you may ornament it to your fancy in white or coloured gum paste, or coloured paste ornamented with gold.V. CAKES SUITABLE FOR ICING. Bride Cakes. In the following table will be found ingredients and quanti- ties for bride cakes as made in a few first-class shops. The prices quoted allow for almond and royal icing :— Ingredients. ios. 6d. I2S. 15s. 18s. £l IS. £1 ns. £2 2S. lb. oz. lb. oz. lb. oz. lb. oz. lb. oz. lb. oz. lb. oz. Butter ..... O II o 13 I I 1 4 i 6 2 I 2 12 Sugar o 7 o 8 O IO O 12 1 0 I 6 I 12 Currants .... 1 4 i 6 I IO 2 O 2 8 3 12 5 0 Orange, lemon, and ) citron mixed . j o 6 o 7 0 8 O IO 0 12 1 2 i 8 Almonds .... o i£ O 2 0 2 0 3 0 3 0 4 0 6 Mixed spice * . . o — 0 of 0 1 0 i£ 0 2 Flour O II 0 r3 1 1 1 4 1 6 2 1 2 12 Eggs, number . . 6 7 9 IO 12 18 24 Brandy, or brandy ) and wine . . t Wine- glass- Wine- glass- Wine- g ass- Wine- glass- £ Pint- £ Pint £ Pint- ful. ful. ful. ful. * Nutmegs, mace, cinnamon. Genoa Cake. (is. 4d. per lb.) The making of Genoa cake is very different from what it was when first introduced into this country, and the mixture was as follows : To 4 ozs. of blanched sweet almonds, finely poun- ded, add 6 ozs. of flour, 8 ozs. of finely pounded loaf sugar,ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONER Y 8 ozs. of good butter, 4 eggs, and a spoonful of brandy; mix all the same as for pound cakes. For variety, currants, pre- served citron or orange peel may be added, and, for flavouring, use vanilla or maraschino liqueur. Genoa Cake, by the Modern Method. Take 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 14 lb. of flour, 24 lbs. of washed and picked currants, 14- lb. of preserved orange and lemon peel cut small, and 1 lb. of eggs; mix as for pound cake, and strew some nicely cut blanched almonds on the top. Bake in a square-edged tin lined with wood upsets. This makes a very nice Genoa cake if well got up. American Genoa Cake. (6d. per lb.) Take 7 lbs. of common butter or margarine, 7 lbs. of castor sugar, 60 eggs, 12 lbs. of flour, 10 lbs. of currants, 3 lbs. of chopped peel, 14- oz. of cream of tartar, f- oz. of soda, and about two pints of churned milk. Cream, sugar, and butter as for ordinary cakes, taking in all the ingredients in rotation ; line your tin with wood upsets, then paper the tin (if margarine is used your paper need not be buttered); and after it is baked let it stand till next day before cutting. Bristol Cake. Take 2 lbs. of butter, 2 lbs. of sugar, 2 lbs. of eggs, 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of patent flour, and 3 lbs. of sultana raisins; cream this cake in the usual way, and bake in small, round, nicely- papered hoops. Weigh out at 1 lb. each, and bake in a moderate oven. School Cake. Take 34- lbs. of sugar, 3 lbs. of butter, 20 eggs, about 34- pints of churned milk, \ oz. of good spice, 14 lbs. of sultanaCAKES SUITABLE EOT ICING. 39 raisins, 8 lbs. of flour, besides 2 lbs. of prepared or patent flour, and 1 lb, of cut peel. Cream as for other cakes, and bake in a tin as in illustration (Plate No. 34, Fig. 108) in a moderate oven. Madeira Cakes. Take if lb. of butter, 2 lbs. of castor sugar, 2 lbs. of flour, with 1 lb. of patent flour, and 24 eggs. Cream your butter and sugar well together; add your eggs, adding a little flour to prevent the mixture curdling; when all the eggs are taken in mix in your flour, and weigh at 1 lb. each; put a thin piece of citron on each cake and bake in a slow oven. Sold at is. each. Citron Cake. Take 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. 2 ozs. of sugar, 6 eggs, with 4 yolks additional, and if lb. of flour. After mixing cut 4 ozs. of green citron in long thin slices, and place them in two or three layers as you put the cake up. It must be baked in a slow oven in a deep tin, or rim, papered with fine paper neatly buttered. Rice Cake. For the best quality you should take 1 lb. of butter and 1 lb. of castor sugar, and cream them well together till they are light; have 12 eggs broken in a pot, add 3 at a time, and when you have all well creamed, add f lb. of flour and \ lb. of rice flour which must have been previously sifted. Mix in nice and lightly, and bake in round hoops in a moderate oven. Sponge Rice Cake. To make this of the best quality separate the whites from 12 eggs, and beat them up to a good strong snow or froth ; thenORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. 40 mix in the 12 yolks with 12 ozs. of castor sugar and the rasp- ings of 2 lemons ; whisk this over a slow fire, or on the top of hot water, till you see it come quite thick and light; then take it off the fire or hot water, and whisk it till it is quite cold ; then stir in lightly 4 ozs. of flour and 6 ozs. of rice flour. Bake in nicely papered hoops, and slightly dust with sugar on the top; bake on double sheet tins in a moderate oven. Marble Cake. Take the quantity you want of the same mixture as for Savoy biscuits,* and divide it into four portions ; dissolve an ounce of chocolate, and add it to two of the portions, in unequal quantities, so that one may be dark and the other light; for the other two portions take vegetable carmine and mix it with a little saffron to make an orange colour; give one of the por- tions a pale and the other a deep orange colour; make a paper case and put in the mixtures with a spoon to intermix the colours, so that when baked the cake may cut out like variegated marble, or the portions may be subdivided and laid in veins like strata of rock : put in a slack oven that the cake may be two or three hours in baking, and when cool cut it in pieces to represent the marble or rock you want. * See Bread and Biscuit Baker s and Sugar Boiler's Assistant. Lon- don : Crosby Lockwood & Son.VI. DISHES GARNISHED FOR THE TABLE. Sweet Pastry. Make as many leaves in tart or puff-paste as you will want; ice them neatly, and bake with great care j then garnish four dishes of pastry in as tasty a manner as your fancy directs. Savoury Pastry. This must be garnished with leaves in the same manner, only use yolk of egg instead of white in your icing. To Garnish Fruits for Dessert. Dried preserved fruits must be laid upon and garnished with dried preserved leaves if you have them; if not, they should be laid upon laced plates—that is, writing paper made the size of your plates with handsome lace round it, which may be procured at the stationers’ shops. A little writing paper cut very fine, rolled up, and put between the fruit, will look well. Ripe Fruits. These should be garnished with and laid upon their respec- tive leaves—as grapes upon vine-leaves, peaches on peach- leaves, and so on. String Tartlets. Make a stiff paste of the finest flour with a little water; work it very smooth and fine, then roll a little of it out on a42 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONER Y. marble slab with each hand ; draw it out very fine, and place it on your tartlet in a regular manner; observe, also, that the strings must be all exactly of a thickness, and as fine as pos- sible. They may be placed upon one tart to'represent a single diamond; on another a double diamond; while on another you may place the strings like matting; while on a fourth you may lay them on so as to leave a space in the middle, or you may vary and add to these directions as your fancy directs. Oyster Loaves. Take some fine dough when you are making French bread ; weigh it in pieces of 2 ozs. each, as many as you wish for; then mould them neatly and set them aside on a clean iron plate to rise; let them stand in a warm place, and when pro- perly proved, bake them in a moderate oven, and as soon as cold rasp them with a fine rasp all round. Next morning cut a round piece out of the top and take out the inside quite clean with a strong piece of wire (crooked), when they will be ready for use, and will keep good for several months. Dutch Flummery. Take 2 ozs. of isinglass and 1 pint of boiling water; let it simmer on a slow fire until dissolved; then add a stick of cinnamon, a few coriander seeds, the juice of 2 lemons, and the rind of 1 lemon with a pint of white wine and the yolks of 7 eggs; sweeten it all to your taste, and set it over a clear fire ; let it simmer, but it must not boil; then strain it through a fine sieve, and when nearly cold put it into moulds, which must be first dipped in water. Pineapple in Dutch Flummery. Dip a pine mould into water and fill it with the flummery ; let it stand all night, then take a small pointed penknife and run it round between the flummery and the mould; give it a43 GARNISHED DISHES. shake and turn it on a dish; dip a camel-hair pencil in green colour and colour the leaves; garnish it with rout biscuits or other fancy confections. A Cut Paste Crocanth. Take 2 ozs. of butter, 4 ozs. of lump sugar, and 1 lb. of flour; boil the sugar and butter in a small cup full of beer; when cold beat up 3 eggs and put them to the other ingre- dients ; mix the whole with the flour into a stiff paste, roll it out thin, and cover a crocanth with it, having previously oiled the mould. You may then take red chalk and draw out a basket of flowers or any other device ; after you have sketched out your design, take a small pointed penknife, and cut out such parts as have not to appear ; you may then bake it in a very slow oven, and when cold take it carefully off the mould and cover it over with cream, or stewed pears, or other fruit. N.B.—You may build pyramids or castles with this paste, which was formerly very much in use before the modern de- velopments of confectionery. A Floating Island. Mix 1 pint of cream with ^ pint of sherry, a little lemon- juice and sugar, with or without a tablespoonful of orange- flower water ; put this into a handsome glass bowl for a middle or corner dish; on this liquid place a strong froth, whipped the night before with a little raspberry jam ; then whisk up the whites of 5 eggs and sweeten \ lb. of the pulp of apples, dam- son, or wine sour, and put it to them; beat the pulp with them until it will stand high ; lay it upon the cream, making it as romantic as possible. You may use strings of angelica, and run them round the parts that project. Green sugar may also be introduced with effect, as well as a few fine gum paste shells or dragees.44 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONER Y. In the thin cream you may place two or three swans, and should the glass or dish have a broad edge, you may cover it with green sugar, and set on it two or three lambs, which will have a pretty effect. If you had rather that the liquor would represent water, use sherry only. Snowballs. Pare and take out the cores of 7 large baking-apples ; fill up the holes with quince or apricot marmalade, then make some good hot paste and roll it out thin, covering each apple neatly with it; set them on a baking-sheet and bake them in a mo- derate oven. Great care must be taken that they do not crack. As soon as this is done prepare some icing, and when the apples are baked and nearly cold, cover each with the icing in as neat a manner as you can. At the top of the ball you may lay icing in a light fashion to represent snow lately fallen ; set them in a warm stove for half an hour, and then place over them a silver web lightly spun. To make a Trifle. Provide a handsome glass and build in it a pyramid consist- ing of macaroons, ratafias, French savoys, and fruit and sponge biscuits ; pour on every part a small quantity of sherry, until the whole is properly steeped. Great care must be taken not to break any part. Then lay your whipped cream upon the biscuits in as romantic a manner as you can—the more like a rock and the higher it is the better. On the top place a sprig of myrtle, and round the sides ornament it with coloured sugar, green citron, and angelica. If you wish for a richer trifle, cover the pyramid of biscuits with a good custard before you lay on the whipped cream.45 GARNISHED DISHES. To whip Cream. Take the whites of 8 eggs, i quart cf cream, and \ pint of sherry; mix and sweeten them to your taste with lump sugar, first rubbing a lemon with it to procure the essence; whip it with a pure clean whisk in a flat earthen pan; as the froth rises take it off on to a fine hair sieve, and let it stand as long as you can before you put in your baskets or trifles. To fill a Chantilly or Italian Basket. Take macaroons, savoy, and sponge biscuits (or any other you please), place them neatly in a basin and pour sherry over them, letting them remain until quite steeped ; then place them with great care in your baskets and fill them full, cover them very high with whipped cream, and ornament with coloured sugar, green citron, and angelica. Blancmange. Take 2 ozs. of bitter almonds, blanch and beat them fine; then take 3 ozs. of pulled isinglass, with 3 pints of water ; simmer it until it is reduced to half the quantity, and then add 1 quart of good cream, with sugar to your taste; cover it close up until nearly cold, then strain it through a lawn cloth. It must not be put into the mould until quite cold, and you must be careful not to let the bottom part go in, as there will be a sediment. The mould must be dipped in cold water before being used. Set the mould in salt, fill it quite full, and let it stand all night. A Pack of Cards in Blancmange. Cover the bottom of a large dish or two with the above blancmange just the thickness of a card, and set it perfectly straight for one night; fill a tin mould exactly the size and46 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. thickness of a pack of cards and let it stand one night; next morning turn it out on to a common dish, and paint the top any way you please—as the ace of hearts or the ace of spades—then cut with the card mould four or six cards from the dishes, lay these on the dishes you send to the table as if shuffled, paint some hearts, diamonds, and so on, carefully lay the large shape as a pack on the top of the loose cards. By this means you will have the appearance of a pack of shuffled cards. Roman Pavement. Take some strong blancmange, and run it one inch thick upon a large dish; fill a flat mould with the same ; colour some more blancmange with sack or cherry brandy, and let the whole stand one night. Next morning turn out the shape of blancmange, on a glass bowl; cut the white and coloured into squares with a silver shovel, placing each in an irregular manner on the shape in the bowl, making it as high and romantic as you can; then pour into the glass bowl a little sack or cherry brandy and serve. Edgings for Blancmange. Take i oz. of pulled isinglass, dissolve and simmer it in i quart of water until it is reduced to half the quantity; divide it into three parts, colour one pink, one green, and the other yellow; then run it on separate dishes ; in the morning you can cut it into long shreds and ornament shapes of blanc- mange with stars, hearts, diamonds, &c. This has a very pleas- ing effect. Solomon’s Temple in Blancmange. Take i quart of stiff blancmange ; divide it into three parts, and make one part a fine colour with prepared cochineal; scrape i oz. of chocolate fine, melt it before the fire, and add47 A CHANTILLY BASNET. it to another part of the blancmange to make a light stone colour; the third part must remain white; then wet your temple mould and fix it firm and straight in salt, fill the top of the temple with red blancmange, and the four points with white; fill up the mould with stone colour and let it stand till next day. Before you turn it out run a small-pointed pen- knife round the inside and shake it loose very gently; do not on any account dip the mould into warm water, as that will take off the gloss and injure the colour; when turned out place a sprig of myrtle in each point, which will not only strengthen it but will improve its appearance. Garnish the dish with jumballs, apple paste, and rock candies. To make a Chantilly Basket. Prepare small ratafias well dried; boil a small quantity of clarified sugar to the degree called caramelled,* and the moment it is ready put the bottom of the pan in cold water to prevent the sugar from discolouring; then dip one side of a ratafia a little in the sugar and fix it on your dish, and so on until you go round one height. The ratafias must be quite close and upright. Continue to do the same until you have built four or five heights agreeable to your fancy. Be careful you do not grain the sugar, which will prevent the ratafias fix- ing to each other. You may, if you please, fix a handle over the basket by using a small shred of tin until the sugar is set. N.B.—You may grain the sugar by stirring it too much in the pan when it is boiling, or after it is boiled. Grained sugar always turns white, and will fix nothing. A teaspoonful of lemon juice put to it when it first boils is of great use to pre- vent it graining. * See Bread and Biscuit Baker's and Sugar Boiler's Assistant. Lon- don: Crosby Lockwood & Son.48 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONER Y. To make a Chantilly Pyramid. Boil your sugar the same as for Chantilly Baskets ; fix the ratafias with the sugar on either an oval or round dish; con- tinue fixing them in layers until you come to the point; spin a little sugar round the pyramid in as long lengths and as fine as you can; you may place a sprig of myrtle on the top and spin the sugar a little round it, which will have a pretty effect. To make a Chantilly Crocanth. Take a crocanth mould with a broad rim at the bottom; oil the outside with a little sweet oil; prepare your sugar as before, and dip each ratafia in the sugar; set them upright round the mould in layers until you cover it in; put a hand- some flower or a ring made of gum paste for the purpose on the top, and as soon as cold, take it carefully off the mould, place it on a bowl of custard, and serve. Tipsy Cake. Take a sponge mould ora savoy cake and sufficient sweet wine or sherry wine to soak it, 6 tablespoonfuls of brandy, 2 ozs. of sweet almonds, and i pint of rich custard. Procure a cake that is three or four days old—either sponge, savoy, or rice will answer the purpose; cut the bottom of the cake level to make it stand firm in the dish; make a small hole in the centre, and pour in and over the cake sufficient sweet wine or sherry mixed with the above proportion of brandy, to soak it nicely; when the cake is well soaked blanch and cut the almonds into strips, stick them all over the cake, and pour round it a good rich custard. Meringues Rings. Beat the whites of five eggs up to a strong froth, taking care to have them nice and stiff; then add 8 ozs. of castor sugar andPORK PIES. 49 mix both up as lightly as possible. Dust the tins or boards on which you intend baking them with a little flour; take a cake hoop the size you wish your rings to be, and mark it out upon thfe flour. Now put a star tube in the savoy bag, then put your meringue mixture into the bag, and proceed to run out various shapes, having about one in every six with stars for the top ; then sprinkle with pink or red sugar, and bake in a slow oven. When ready put them in a dry place till next day, when they will be ready for setting up. To do this, make a piece of common paste with flour and water—say a quarter of an inch broader than your meringue rings; see that it is well docked, and bake in a moderate oven. Set one ring on the bottom of this paste, having a little icing sugar under to make it fast; then pile six of them on in the same way, and finish off with silvered sweets and coloured piping. A little green citron cut in fancy shapes and put round the sides improves them. They are ready now, and can be filled when wanted for use with whipped cream or custard. Pork Pies, To every 4 lbs. of flour use 1\ lb. of good lard; rub the lard into the flour, make a bay, add a pinch of salt, and as much boiling water as will make into a nice working dough— not too tight, or it will get too stiff and crack before it is worked off; and not too soft, or your shells for the pies will not stand. Practice alone can determine the size of the'dough. After your dough has lain a few minutes, proceed to make your shells. For large pies, half mould your shells, say twelve at once, then take your first one that is half moulded and place it on your block, the inside of your shell being slightly dusted; now with both hands work your shell gently round on the block, both shell and block moving round in your hands till you have it the required size ; when your shells are all put up E50 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONER Y. proceed to fill them with prepared meat, then lid them ; after which you start to ornament them, cutting out different devices to place round the sides with a rose in the centre, which you can make by cutting out small round pieces of paste and gathering them one at a time in your hand to form a rose. This requires practice; or roll out a piece of dough very thin, say 3 inches square, and fold it up into a round ball, with the folded ends in your hand, and cut it across each way, and then shape it in the form of a rose. Egg your pies, top and sides, place greased paper round each, fastening the end of the paper with a pin, or you can bake them in pie rims or hoops. Have previously made some rich gravy from the bones left after cut- ting your pie meat, adding a little gelatine, with sufficient water, to stew well together in the oven ; season to your taste, and when your pies are nearly cold break a hole in the lid, and fill with the gravy. Ices in Fruit Moulds. These moulds, which may be procured of almost any shape suitable for ices, are made of pewter, and are fastened by a hinge. If you desire to represent a fruit, mould your ice accord- ingly, having first given it the proper flavour. Clean your mould, fill it with the ice and insert in the small hole at the end a stem or a couple of leaves of the fruit represented, or artificial leaves will do. Close the mould, the stem and leaves being outside, and cover it with paper; then bury it amongst the ice and salt in the tub, taking care that the ice covers it. It will be ready in about an hour and a half. If you are imitating a stone fruit the natural stone may be cleaned and inserted in the ice mould. A tin box with shelves, open in the front, and sufficiently small to fit in the ice, will be found useful for keeping moulded ice fruit in.VII. ORNAMENTAL BUTTER WORK. Your butter must be tough and waxy, and as white as pos- sible—old firkin butter made from poor land is the best for this work; wash it well in cold spring water, then work it upon a marble slab, and put it again into fresh spring water; as the water gets warm remove it for cold. To ornament a Tongue as the Stump of a Tree with Bird s Nest. Boil a tongue and lay it quite straight • when cold, pare it neatly, and set it upright upon a dish; force butter through the butter-squirt, and run some strings of it in an irregular way up the tongue ; model leaves, vein them neatly, and place them at a proper distance upon the wires you have before run up ; then force butter through a fine hair sieve, and put it round the stump, with which make a nest, and place in it six or seven birds gaping for food; place a small shot on each side of the head to form the eyes ; then model two large birds, place one on the top with a green stalk or worm in its mouth, in the attitude of flying down ; fix the other on a perch about the middle of the tongue, always remembering to fix small skewers for the birds to rest upon; put a green stalk of parsley in the mouth of some of them. At the root of the tongue you may place a few shells in butter, turned upon a wet crimping board. If you wish the dish to be showy, colour the butter of which52 ORNA ME NT A L CONFECTIONER Y. you make the birds a pale yellow, to represent a canary, or black for a blackbird, or brown for a robin, with a red breast. Any of these will make a very handsome device. To ornament a Tongue as a Bridge. Boil a large tongue, bend it with a bow, like an arch, and when cold pare it neatly, and cut the tip end off to make it stand ; then form scrolls on the sides with butter forced through a squirt, and place butter on the thick parts of the sides to form the stone-work; on the top part of the sides fix lengths of butter. Put through a wide butter-squirt at a proper distance to represent posts, and from these fix lengths of butter put through a finer squirt for the railing; you may also (if you please) put butter round a piece of wire for lamp-posts, and on the top place the figure of a lamp ; then model six or seven geese, put a bit of small whisk in each neck and one through the body; set each upon two pieces of whisk which will form the legs ; put them all in a flying attitude and nearly all together; then model a fox, and set it in a galloping attitude in pursuit of its prey. For variety on another tongue you may place a Reynard, tunning up a bridge ornamented as above with a goose on its aack, holding the neck in its mouth-. Butter Pats. Wood moulds are generally to be procured, which open in the middle and are fixed with pegs. The moulds must be wet when the butter is forced in, and when opened the pat must be let out into the water. Moulds of this sort are made for lambs, swans, and a variety of birds; but the work is much more effective when modelled.53 WORK IN BUTTER. A Butter Pat as a Lamb or Bird. Model neatly as many as you want, and let them lie in water until perfectly stiff; then take one out at a time on to a small dish or plate, force butter through a very fine sieve, cover the body neatly with it, and make a bushy tail, and so on until you have got the number you wish for. In like manner figures of other animals or birds must be modelled in their respective shapes, and laid in water until stiff. To ornament Hams. Cut and pare a boiled ham neatly, particularly at the shank ; model the devices for it, and put the ham into cold spring water until the butter is properly stiff; then take the ham out and lay it on a board, smooth and finish your work. The devices may be set on each side, or in the front of the ham. You may then place round the ham single and double loops in butter forced through a squirt, or you may place any ornament you please on the top—such as flowers or the crest and arms of the family for whom the work is intended.(54) VIII. ORNAMENTAL WAX WORK. Wax for Modelling. Put into a new pipkin 6 ozs. of resin, i lb. of beeswax, 2 ozs. of lard, and 4 ozs. of flour. Colour it with vermilion and stir the whole on a gentle fire; and when melted and well mixed, pour it into a paper case to use for modelling figures, &c. To make a Wax Basket. Take \ lb. of the best white wax and a small mould candle. Scrap them fine into a pipkin, and set it on a warm part of the stove or on a very slow fire to melt; run the melted wax in a regular manner into your basket mould, which must have been previously oiled with a little sweet oil; when cold, turn out carefully. If the basket is to be upon a bottom stand, run the wax in the same way into the mould for the stand, and when both are turned out fix them together with hot wax. Paint them as your fancy directs.ILLUSTRATIVE DESIGNS.(56) Plate I. Fig. i.—A basin or bowl for creaming or mixing cakes; a smaller one (or an earthen pot) is required for making royal icing. Fig. 2.—Revolving table or stand on which to place cakes for icing. Fig. 3.—Palette knife for use in putting the icing on the cake. Fig. 4.—Spatula—made of wood—for beating up the icing. Fig. 5.—Cake made and ready to ice. Fig. 6.—Iced almond cake, ornamented. Figs. 7, 8.—Two Cupids or angels to place on cakes made out of gum paste.Plate N?1 Fig.l. BASIN, Fig. 2 . REVOLVING ICING TABLE Figs .7.8. CUPIDS IN GUM PASTEPlate N° D. F 9 Fig. 9. ICING BAG AND TUBES.(57) Plate II. Fig. 9.—Icing bag and tubes for piping cakes and biscuits.* * A variety of different designs can be had at Messrs. J. Baker & Son’s, 58, City Road, London, and notably a new design of tube for throwing at once a bunch of grapes on to a cake, or particulars of tubes can be had of the author of this work.Plate III. Fig. io.—Cake on revolving stand ready to be iced. Fig. n.—Cake on revolving stand completed in almond icing. Fig. 12.—Tipsy cake (see page 48). Fig. 13.—Trifle (seepage 44). Fig. 14.—Pork-pie (see page 49).Plate N? Ill Fig. 12. TIPSY CAKE. Fig. 13. TRIFLE.Plate 5° IV. Fig. 18.. WREATHS FOR SIDE OF CAKE.Plate IV. The wreaths shown in this plate will be found very effective when piped round the side of a cake. Figs. 15 and 16 are scroll wreaths, and by an ingenious piper any number of these wreaths can be easily conceived— only let him bear in mind that his designs in scroll must harmonize and be in accord with other ornamentation piped on his cake. Scroll designs can often be picked up in very unlikely places — sometimes, for instance, on painters’ sign-boards, on fancy advertising bills, and in illustrated books and journals. Beau- tiful designs are sometimes seen also on window screens, tapestry, and woven goods of all kinds ; but the man who can conceive his own designs, and has originality, is the true master of his profession, in confectionery as elsewhere. Fig. 17.—This angel wreath in this design is a pretty design for the side of a cake, but is very seldom seen. A paper bag is best to use for this wreath, as you can cut the bag to the required size. The figure of the angel should be worked out by two squeezes from the bag—first from the head to the waist, then from the waist to the foot, then the under leg and foot; then add the arms with flower in hand; then the hair, wings, and flowing drapery, and finish with a wreath of roses and rose-leaves. There is plenty of work in this wreath to call forth the ingenuity of a good amateur, or even of a so- called “ professor.” Fig. 18.—The convolvulus wreath here shown requires con- siderable skill and practice; but with perseverance a pupil who has any intuition can soon master it.(6o ) Plate V. Fig. 19.—Wreath for cake. Fig. 20.—Wreath for cake. Fig. 21.—Border for a cake in royal icing. Fig. 22.—Ditto, ditto. Fig. 23.—Ditto, ditto. Fig. 24.—Ditto, ditto. Fig. 25.—Wreath for a cake. Fig. 26.—Wreath for a cake. All the borders can be cut out in gum paste blocks or be represented in royal icing.Plate WREATHS & BORDERSPlate N°VI. Fig. $4*. BORDERS FOR CAKES IN GUM PASTE./(6i ) Plate VI. Figs. 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34.—Eight different designs are here, shown for borders for cakes, made in gum paste, the process for making which will be found described at pages 24 to 26.(62) Plate VII. Figs* 35, 36, 37, 38.—Four different styles of bunches of grapes, used to ornament; cakes, are shown here. To make a bunch of grapes on a cake, take the leaf tube and throw a leaf on your cake, making it thin at one end and a little thicker at the other. Then take either No. 2 or 3 tube and dot your leaf all over to represent grapes, and finish it off by giving it a leaf or two with a stalk. For good and effective work a good deal depends on the ingenuity of the operator.Plate N° VI. BUNCHES OF GRAPES.Plate N? YU BORDER SPRAYS.(63) Plate VIII. Figs. 39, 40, 41, 42.—Four sprays, such as are commonly used to decorate a cake after the operator has finished piping.Plate IX, Figs. 43, 44. —Butterflies, which may be cut out with blocks from gum paste, or be imitated in royal icing. Figs. 45, 46, 47, 48.—Gold and silver leaves for decorating cakes. Similar shapes can be cut from gum paste, or repre- sented in royal icing.Plate N° K. BUTTERFLIES AND LEAVES.Plate N?X. BIRD AND FRUIT.(65) Plate X. Fig. 49.—Head of bird, with twig, to be imitated in royal icing. Figs. 50, 51, 52, 53.—Apples and pears, which can be represented as the fancy dictates, either in gum paste or in royal icing. F(66) Plate XI. Fig. 54.—Wheatsheaf. Generally cut from gum paste. Fig. 55.—Wheat border. Generally imitated in royal icing.Bate N? XI. Fig. 55. WHEATSHEAF & WHEAT BORDER.Plate Is™ XU. PAPER CONES FOR PIPING.(67) Plate XII. Figs. 56, 57, 58, 59, 60.—Paper cones, or bags for piping cakes, &c., made of writing paper twisted in the form of a cone and fastened with a pin. They are cut at the ends in different shapes, to allow the operator to imitate different devices. In the hands of an expert, the cone is to the piper what the brush is to the painter. Gently press the sides of the cones and the icing will run out.(68) Plate XIII. Fig. 61.—Bridecake, with pillars worked in gum paste and royal icing. Fig. 62.—Small cake, ornamented in royal icing. Fig. 63.—Centre piece or cake ornament. Fig. 64.—Veal and ham pie. Fig. 65.—Small ornamented cake, with doves for centie piece.Plate N? XIII. fig. 65. CAKE WITH DOVES-DOVES.(69) Plate XIV. Fig. 66.—Centre piece for cake, with figure, flowers, and creepers. Fig. 67.—Ditto, ditto. Fig. 68.—Dove, with love-letter Fig. 69.—Ditto, ditto.(70) Plate XV. Fig. 70.— Centre piece for cake, with figure, flowers, and creepers. Fig. 71.—Centre piece for cake, with flowers and creepers. Fig. 72.—Ditto, ditto. Fig. 73.—Ditto, ditto.Plate N? XV. CENTRE PIECES FOR CAKES. Pig. 70. Fig. 71.Plate N9XVL CENTRE PIECES FOR CAKES.Plate XVI. Fig. 74.—Centre piece for cake, with figures, flowers, and creepers. Fig. 75.—Centre piece for cake, with flowers and creepers. Fig. 76.—Centre piece for cake, with figure, flowers, and creepers. Fig. 77.—Centrepiece for cake, figure, flowers, and creepers.(72) Plate XVII. Fig. 78.—Centre piece for cake, with figure, flowers, and creepers. Fig- 79.—Centre piece for cake, with flowers and creepers. Fig. 80.—Ditto, ditto. Fig. 81.—Centre piece for cake, with figure, flowers, and creepers.Plate N° XVII. CENTRE PIECES FOR CAKES.Fig. 83. TfiPQ HP ONF STORFY RRIDF TAKES.piped with royal icing. (73) Plate XVIII. Figs. 82,83.—Designs for the top of one-storey bride cakes,(74) piped with royal icing. Plate XIX. Figs. 84, 85.—Designs for the top of one-storey bride cakes,Plate 2P? XIX. Pig.85. TOPS OF ONE-STOREY-BRIDE CAKES.Plate K? XXL. TOPS OF ONE-STOREY BRIDECAKES. Fig.80. ^-8 7-piped with royal icing, (75) Plate XX. Figs. 86, 87.—Designs for the top of one-storey bride cakes,(76) piped with royal icing. Plate XXI. Figs. 88, 89.—Designs for the top of one-storey bride cakes,Plate P7? XXL TOPS OF ONE-STOREY BRIDE CAKES. Fig. 89..TOPS OF ONE-STOREY BRIDE CAKES. Plate .V.WXII. Fig. 91.piped with royal icing. (77) Plate XXII. Figs. 90, 91.—Designs for the top of one-storey bride cakes,(78) Plate XXIII. Fig. 92. — One-storey bride cake, plain iced, with centre piece, and decorated with flowers. Fig* 93-—One-storey bride cake, plain piped. Fig. 94.—Three-storey bride cake, with centre piece, piped and decorated.Plate N° IYTTT Fig. 92. Fig.94. BRIDE CAKES.Plate N°XXIV.(79) Plate XXIV. •Pig* 95-—Two-storey bride cake, piped with royal icing, decorated, and with centre figure. Fig. 96.—One-storey bride cake, with border piped, and centre piece—cake placed on a handsome stand.( 8o) Plate XXV, Fig- 97-—Handsome two-storey bride cake with centre piece of flowers and creepers. This design of cake may be easily got up in royal icing, with four Cupids placed round the second storey.BRIDE CAKE. Plate JS°.JW.Plate N7XX.V1. BRIDE CAKE(80 Plate XXVI. Fig. 98.—Bride cake ornamented in gum-paste. The gum paste must be made according to the directions given (p. 24), and must be tough with gum, and worked up to a proper stiffness with starch powder. Before you use the moulds they must be dusted with starch powder tied up in a piece of cloth. The paste should be rolled out on a marble slab, put tight down into the moulds, and cut off with a smooth sharp knife. Take out as many borders as will go round the bottom of the cake, and lay them on a straight board; if they do not come out very readily, put a bit of gum paste to them in different parts ; give it a touch, jerk it, and the border, &c., will come out immediately ; then touch the first border with a camel-hair pencil dipped in thin gum water, place it neatly on the bottom of the cake, and so on until it is ornamented round. Be careful to make the joinings so as not to be observed. Then take out more borders of a different pattern* for the top ; and afterwards take out trophies for the sides, top, and ends. G(82) Plate XXVII. pig. 99.—Cake in gum paste with fountain. In decorating this cake, roll out a piece of gum paste square ; cut it into long lengths, twist them, and lay them on a smooth board ; bend them towards one end, and so on, until you have a good number in the same way. Then turn a piece of paste —about three inches long—upon a round ruler; next morn- ing set it up in the middle of the top of the cake ; fix it with soft gum paste, and as many gum-paste leaves as will go round it in different heights so as to represent a fountain. This de- vice makes a beautiful middle piece for a small table, or an end or corner piece for a large one.Plate H°XXVll.Plate N°HVHL Pig. 100. BRIDE CAKEC«3) Plate XXVIII. Fig. ioo.—One-storey bride cake and centre piece, with Cupid, piped in royal icing.(§4) Plate XXIX, Fig. ioi.—Handsome one-storey bride cake, with centre piece of flowers and creepers ornamented with pillars, arches, &c. The designs here shown are mostly made in gum paste, but the operator must have considerable practice before attempting so ambitious a work.Plate N°XXK. Pig. 101. ONE-STOREY BRIDE CAKE WITH CENTRE PIECEPlate Fig. 102. FOUR-STOREY BRIDE CAKE.Plate XXX, Fig. 102.—Four-storey bride cake on stand, with centre piece of flowers and figure, with knots of white ribbon placed round the bottom storey—ornamented and piped in royal icing.(86) Plate XXXI. Fig. 103.—Three-storey bride cake on handsome stand, with centre piece of figures and flowers, two horns of plenty placed on the top storey, and figures placed round each storey of the cake, piping of which can be done with royal icing.Plate tf?XXXL Fig. 103. THREE-STOREY BRIDE CAKE WITH CENTRE PIECEPlate N° XXXII. Fig. 104. THREE-STOREY BRIDE CAKE WITH CENTRE PIECE ON STAND.(87) Plate XXXII. Fig. 104.—Three-storey bride cake on stand, with centre piece and creepers—each storey decorated in fretwork, with knots of white ribbon placed round each storey. Mostly done in royal icing. A cake such as this is very difficult to do, unless in the hands of an expert operator.(88) Plat© XXXIII. Fig. 105.—One-storey bride cake, handsomely ornamented, on stand, with the crown of England in the centre, guarded by a lion at each corner; the top pieces handsomely decorated with pillars, and figures all done in gum paste.Plate if? XXXIII. Fig.JLOS. ONE-STOREY BRIDE CAKE,WITH CENTRE PIECE & ORNAMENTS.Plate N? B Fig. 106. Genoa Cake cut. F ig. 107. B ristol Cake. F ig. 108. Scho ol Cake. Fig. 109. Ornamented Fruit Cake. F ig. 110. Genoa Cake, Fig. 111. iced Surrey Cake. Fig. 112. Malta Cake. SMALL CAKES.(89) Plate XXXIV. Fig. 106.—Genoa cake cut in sizes ready for sale (pp. 37, 38)- Fig. 107.—Bristol cake—a kind of Madeira cake with sultana raisins added (p. 38). Fig. 108.—School cake (p. 38). Fig. 109.—Ornamented fruit cake. These cakes are most conspicuous at the Christmas and New Year season, and great ingenuity and taste are displayed in their get up, using either tubes or paper cones with royal icing—partly coloured to pipe. Fig. no.—Genoa cake, small size, baked and striped ready to cut. Fig. in.—Iced Surrey cake—a sort of Genoa cake, iced over the top and piped in various coloured icing. Very good taste may be displayed in the get up of this cake. Fig. 112.—Malta cake—after the style of a Bristol cake with- out the fruit.(90) Plate XXXV. Fig. 113.—Sponge savoy mould. Cakes thus moulded, when nicely got up, and delivered clean and whole from the mould, and artistically piped in various colours, offer a very tempting article as a show cake for the shop window. Fig. 114.—Best Genoa cake, with blanched and cut almonds on the top. Generally sold in the best shops at js. 4d. per pound. Fig. 115.—Cocoa-nut cake. This can be made either square or round, according to the recipe for Madeira (page 39), with half a pound of cocoa-nut added to the mixture, and about half a pound of cocoa-nut strewn over the tops of the eight cakes. Fig. 116.—Madeira cake. One of the most popular cakes in a confectioner’s window, and a really nice cake when well got up (page 39). Fig. 117.—Citron cake. A good cake for best shops (page 39).Plate X'.' XXXV. Fig.114-. Genoa Cake with Blanched Almonds. Fig. 115 .Cocoanut Cake F ig. 116 . Madeira Cake. SPONGE SAVOY MOULD AND SUNDRY CAKESPlate N? XXXVI. Fig. 120. Marble Gake in section Fig. 127. Biscuit(91) Plate XXXVI. Fig. 118.—Dressed ox tongue. This dish offers the pastrycook a nice opportunity for dis- play of taste. Fig. 119.—Hedge-hog cake. This form of cake is not so popular as it used to be, but is an attractive cake for window show. Bake in a sponge mould of the shape of a hedge-hog, and after baking stick large strips of blanched almonds to represent the hedge-hog’s quills or prickles. Two currants will serve for the eyes. Fig. 120.—Marble cake in section (page 40). Figs. 121, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 127—Iced and piped fancy biscuits. In fancy biscuits such as are shown here the young beginner has a chance to exercise his skill and ingenuity without spoil- ing much material, for any reasonable design will do for the top of a biscuit, and the confectioner can supply himself with tubes of various designs, to throw ornaments at once on to the biscuit.(92) Plate XXXVII. Fig. 128.—Scotch shortbread, in round shape, with “The Compliments of the Season ” piped on and leaves for edging. Fig. 129.—Scotch shortbread, in square shape, with “A Merry Christmas ” piped in and a twisted edging. Scotch shortbread is now mostly squared off and pressed into blocks to represent the nipping round the edges. This is certainly a quicker mode than nipping with the fingers, but I question if it is more artistic, as I have known workmen who could nip in three or four different styles, and we have yet to see the block that can produce work equal to it. The piping shown in the illustrations is, perhaps, not very artistic, but I have given here what is commonly offered for sale. I have seen, however, devices displayed on cakes of shortbread that were real works of art. The operator has plenty of room for the display of talent in this class of goods, and he may construct and vary his devices as his fancy dictates. The following are amongst the most popular of the mottoes commonly shown on shortbread :— A New Year’s Greeting. For Auld Lang Syne. A Happy New Year. Land of Cakes. Wishing You Many Happy Returns. Scotland Yet. May God Prosper the Shamrock, Rose, and Thistle. Be Just and Fear Not. But in fact there is no limit to the mottoes which may be used, and the operator may select or adopt whatever he thinks is most likely to please the popular fancy, providing he keeps each motto in harmony and does not overcrowd the cake.Plate N? STOTT.INDEX %* The references in Capital Letters are to the Illustrative Designs (Plates I. to XXXVII.) commencing at p. 55. ALMOND Iced Cake, Plates I., III. Almond Icing for Bride Cakes, 23 Almond Icing, another mode, for common goods, 23 American Genoa Cake, 38 Animals in Common Paste, 27 Fine Paste, 27 Gum Paste, 29 Basin, Plate i. Baskets, Ornamental, 36 Bird, Head of, with Twig, Plate X. Birds in Gum Paste, 29 Biscuits, Plate XXXVI. Black, Ivory, 20 Blancmange, 45 , Edgings for, 46 , Pack of Cards in, 45 , Solomon’s Temple in, 46 Blue, Prussian, 20 Bol Ammoniac, 21 Borders for Cakes in Gum Paste, Plate VI. Border Sprays, Plate VIII. Bride Cakes, 37 Bride Cakes, Plates XIII. to XXXIII. • , Four-storey, Plate XXX. , One-storey, with Centre Piece, Plate XXIX. —— , Designs for Top, Plates XVIII. to XXII. f with CentrePiece and Ornaments, Plate XXXIII. Bride Cake, Three-storey, Plate XXXI. , with Centre Piece, on Stand, Plate XXXII. Bristol Cake, 38 Bristol Cake, Plate XXXIV. Burnished Gilding, 3094 ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONER Y. Butter Pats, 52 as Lamb or Bird, 53 Butterflies, Plate IX. CAKE as Basket of Flowers, 33 Cake as an Elephant, 36 Cake as a Flower Pot, 35 with Fountain, 33 as a Melon with Fruit, 34 with Flowers, 34 as a Ripe Melon, 34 -—- as a Pyramid, 35 with Raised Top in Twisted Paste, 33 as a Turban, 35 , Bristol, 38 , Citron, 39 , Genoa, 37, 38 , Marble, 40 , Rice, 39 , Sponge Rice, 39 , School, 38 , Tipsy, 48 Cake Ready for Icing, Plates I., III. , Citron, Plate XXXV. , Cocoa Nut, Plate XXXV. with Doves, Plate XIII. with Fountain, Plate XXVII. , Genoa, Plate XXXIV. , Cut, Plate XXXIV. ■ -, with Blanched Almonds, Plate XXXV. , Hedgehog, Plate XXXVI. , Iced Almond, Plate I. , Iced Surrey, Plate XXXIV. , Madeira, Plate XXXV. , Malta, Plate XXXIV. , Marble, in Section, Plate XXXVI. , Ornamented Fruit, Plate XXXIV. , School, Plate XXXIV. , Short, Plate XXXVII. , Small, Plate XIII. Cakes Suitable for Icing, 37—40 , Icing for, 22 , Madeira, 39 , Modern Method of Ornamenting, 11, 33 , Ornamenting with Gum Paste, 26 , (see also Bride Cakes) Carmine, 18 , Vegetable, 19 Centre Pieces, Plates XIII. to XVII. Chantilly Basket, 47 * ■ —, to fill, 45 • Crocanth, 48 Pyramid, 48INDEX. 95 Cinnabar, 20 Cochineal, 17 Colour in Confectionery Work, Principles of, 5 Colours for Confectionery, 17 Fit to Eat, 21 Cream, to whip, 45 Crocanth in Cut Paste, 43 Cupids in Gum Paste, Plate I. Custard Cups, to make, 36 DECORATION as applied to Confectionery, 2 Doves, Plate XIV. Dutch Flummery, 42 FIGURES in Moulds, 28 Floating Island, 43 Flowers in Gum Paste, 27 Fruit, Plate X. Fruit for Dessert, to garnish, 41 Fruits, Ripe, 41 Gamboge, i9 Garnished Dishes for the Table, 41—50 Gilding, Burnished, 30 , Oil, 30 Good Work, Essentials of, 7 Grapes, Bunches of, Plate VII. Green, Sap, 20 , Spinach, 20 Gum Paste, to make, 24—26 , Birds in, 28 , to gild, 30 , Modelling in, 27—29 , Ornamenting Cakes with, 26 , Varnish for, 29 , Work in, 8 H AMS, to ornament, 53 ICE in Fruit Moulds, 50 Icing for Bride Cakes, 23 Icing for Cakes, 22, 23 for Common Goods, 22 and Gum Paste Work, 22 and Piping, 9 , Royal, 24 Icing Bag and Tubes, Plate II. Table, Revolving, Plate I. Italian Basket, to fill, 45 Ivory Black, 20ORNAMENTAL CONFECTIONERY. ~g~ ^EAVES, Gold and Silver, or in Gum Paste, etc., Plate IX. Meringues Rings,48 Mould-making, 31 Moulds, Plaster, 31 ORNAMENTAL Baskets, 33 Ornamental Butter Work, 51—53 Ornamental Sugar Work, 8 Wax Work, 54 Ornamenting Cakes, &c., 33—36 Ox Tongue, Dressed, Plate XXXVI. Oyster Loaves, 42 PALETTE Knife, Plate I. Paper Cases for Piping, Plate XII Pastry, Savoury, 41 , Sweet, 41 Pine-apple in Dutch Flummery, 42 Plates, Illustrative (I. to XXXVII.), ^—92 Pork Pies, 49 Pork Pie, Plate III. Prussian Blue, 20 J^^OMAN Pavement, 46 * C* AFFRON, 20 v**) Sap Green, 20 Shortbread, Plate XXXVII. Snowballs, 44 Spatula, Plate I. Spinach Green, 20 Sponge Savoy Mould, Plate XXXV. String Tartlets, 41 Sugar Work, Ornamental, 8 Tipsy Cake, 48 Tipsy Cake, Plate III. Tongue as a Bridge, 52 as Stump of Tree with Bird’s Nest, 51 Tongue, Dressed, Plate XXXVI. Trifle, to Make a, 44 Trifle, Plate III. ^^TERMILION and Cinnabar, 20 WAX Basket, to make, 54 Wax for Modelling, 54 PR1NTKL) BY J. S. VIRTUE AND CO., LIMITED, CITY ROAD, LONDON.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON, 7, Stationers’ Hall Court, London, E.C THE SCIENCE AND PRACTICE OF MILLING. FLOUR MANUFACTURE: A TREATISE ON MILLING SCIENCE AND PRACTICE. By FRIEDRICH KICK, IMPERIAL REGIERUNGSRATH, PROFESSOR OF MECHANICAL TECHNOLOGY IN THE IMPERIAL GERMAN POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTE, PRAGUE. Crantflatstr from tfje (Shtlarcjetr aixtf ^Xftttcru fottf) Jhqiplemttit. By H. H. P. POWLES, ASSOC. MEMB. INSTITUTION OF CIVIL ENGINEERS. Nearly 400 pp. Illustrated with 28 Folding Plates, and 167 Woodcuts. Royal 8vo, 25s. cloth. SUMMARY OF CONTENTS Introduction—Grain—Methods of Grinding—Old Mills—New Mills. Part I. On the different Kinds of Grain: their Structure, Diseases, Enemies, and Impurities—II. On the Preservation of Grain—III. On the Prepara- tion of Grain for Grinding—IV. Grinding Mills and Hursts—V. Roller Mills—VI. On Bolting, Sifting, and Dressing the Ground Products— VII. Middlings Purifying—VIII. The different Methods of Milling— IX. Flour Mixing, Storing, Drying, Packing—X. Mills as Industrial Establishments—Appendix—Supplement. EXTRACTS FROM NOTICES OF THE PRESS. “ This valuable work is, and will remain the standard authority on the science of milling. . . The miller who has read and digested this work will have laid the founda- tion, so to speak, of a successful career; he will have acquired a number of general principles which he can proceed to apply. In this handsome volume we at last have the accepted text-book of modern milling in good, sound English, which has little, if any, trace of the German idiom.”—The Miller. “ Professor Kick treats the subject so thoroughly both on its theoretical and practical sides that his work is well suited to be a text-book of technical education anywhere.”—Scotsman. “ The appearance of this celebrated work in English is very opportune, and British millers will, we are sure, not be slow in availing themselves of its pages That the fund of information in the work should now be available for every English miller is a boon indeed.”—Millers' Gazette. “ It should be in the hands of all directly interested in the question of milling or of flour.”—Manchester Guardian.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON, 7, Stationers’ Hall Court, London, E.C. Second Edition, Fcap. 8vo, 420 pp. Price 4s., cloth. THE HOUSE MANAGER, BEING A GUIDE TO ' HOUSEKEEPING, PRACTICAL COOKERY, PICKLING & PRESERVING, HOUSEHOLD WORK, DAIRY MANAGEMENT, THE TABLE & DESSERT, CELLARAGE OF WINES, BREWING AND WINE MAKING, THE BOUDOIR AND DRESSING ROOM, TRAVELLING, STABLE ECONOMY, GARDENING OPERATIONS, ETC. FORMING THEREFORE A HANDBOOK TO THE DUTIES OF THE HOUSEKEEPER, COOK, LADY’S-MAID, NURSERY-MAID, HOUSE-MAID, LAUNDRY-MAID, DAIRY-MAID, BUTLER, VALET, FOOTMAN, COACHMAN, GROOM, AND GARDENER. BY AN OLD HOUSEKEEPER. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. “The press literally teems with cookery books—a few good, many bad, and the majority very indifferent. Among the best is the ‘ House Manager.’ It exhausts the subject it treats, and does it in a plain, common-sense way.”—Figaro. “ This household vade mecum contains a great quantity of the most useful informa- tion, giving the newest and most approved recipes and methods connected with the different departments.”—Edinburgh Courant. “ This book is one of the most unique and valuable of its kind. It forms a store of very profitable information.”—European Mail. A COMPLETE EPITOME OF THE LAWS OF THIS COUNTRY. JUST published. Crown 8vo, 700 pp., price 6s. 8d. (Saved at Every Consultation!!) TWENTY-SEVENTH EDITION. EVERY MAN’S OWN LAWYER: A Handy-book of the Principles of Law and Equity. By A Barrister. Twenty-seventh Edition. Revised and Enlarged, and Brought up to Date, with the Legislation of 1889, including the Trust Investment Act, 1889 (largely extending the list of Securities allowed for the investment of Trust Funds); the Settled Land Act, 1889; the Infectious Diseases Notification Act, 1889; Prevention of Cruelty to Children Act, 1889; Technical Instruction Act, 1889; Board of Agriculture Act, 1889; Public Bodies Corrupt Practices Act, 1889; Official Secrets Act, 1889; Sale of Horseflesh Regulation Act, 1889; Indecent Advertisements Act, 1889, and other new Acts. Full abstracts also of the more important Acts of the previous year—such as the Local Government Act, 1888; County Courts Act, 1888; Trustee Act, 1888; and others—will be found in the volume. The summary statement of the Powers of Local Authorities for dealing with Insanitary Dwellings, which was issued by the Local Government Board (December, 1889), has also been included in this Edition. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. “ Should be in the hands of every business man and all who wish to abolish lawyers’ bills.”—Weekly Times. “ A useful and concise epitome of the law, compiled with considerable care.”—Law Magazine. “ A work which has long been wanted, which is thoroughly well done, and which we most cordially recommend.”—Sunday Times. “ The latest edition of this popular book ought to be in every business establishment, and on every library table.”—Sheffield Post.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON, 7, Stationers’ Hall Court, London, E.C. POPULAR WORKS PUBLISHED BP CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON. New Pocket Book for Farmers, Agricultural Students, etc. TABLES, MEMORANDA, AND CALCULATED RESULTS FOR Farmers, Graziers, Agricultural Students, Surveyors, Land Agents, Auc- tioneers, etc. With a New System of Farm Book-keeping. Selected and Arranged by Sidney Francis. Second Edition, Revised. 272 pp., waistcoat- pocket size, is. 6d., limp leather. [fustpublished. “ Weighing less than 1 oz., and oecupying no more space than a match box, it contains a mass of facts and calculations which has never before, in such handy form, been obtainable. Every operation on the farm is dealt with. The work may be taken as thoroughly accurate, having been revised by Dr. Fream. We cordially recommend it.”—Bell's Weekly Messenger. English Agriculture. THE FIELDS OF GREAT BRITAIN: A Text-Book of Agriculture, adapted to the Syllabus of the Science and Art Department. For Elementary and Advanced Students. By Hugh Clements (Board of Trade). Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. i8mo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “It is a long time since we have seen a book which has pleased us more, or which contains such a vast and useful fund of knowledge.”—Educational Times. Early Fruits, Flowers, and Vegetables. THE FORCING GARDEN; or How to Grow Early Fruits, Flowers, gfS| and Vegetables. With Plans and Estimates for Glass-houses, Pits and Frames, Double Glazing, Ventilation, &c., &c. With Illustrations. By Samuel Wood. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “A good book, and fairly fills a place that was in some degree vacant. The book is written with great care, and contains a great deal of valuable teaching.”— Gardeners’ Magazine. Good Gardening. A PLAIN GUIDE TO GOOD GARDENING; or How to Grow Vegetables, Fruits, and Flowers. With Practical Notes on Soils, Manures, Seeds, Planting, Laying-out of Gardens and Grounds, &c. By S. Wood. Third Edition, with Additions and numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ May be recommended to young gardeners, cottagers, and amateurs, for the plain and trustworthy information it gives on common matters too often neglected .'—Gardeners’ Chronicle. Gainful Gardening. MULTUM-IN-PARVO GARDENING; or, How to make One Acre of Land produce £620 a year by the Cultivation of Fruits and Vegetables ; also, How to Grow Flowers in Three Glass Houses, so as to realise £176 per annum clear Profit. By Samuel Wood, Author of “ Good Gardening,” &c. Fourth and cheaper Edition, Revised, with Additions. Crown 8vo, is. sewed. “We are bound to recommend it as not only suited to the case of the amateur and gentleman’s gardener, but to the market grower.”—Gardeners' Magazine. Gardening for Ladies. THE LADIES' MULTUM-IN-PARVO FLOWER GARDEN, and Amateurs' Complete Guide. By S. Wood. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ This volume contains a good deal of sound, common sense instruction.”—Florist. Receipts for Gardeners. GARDEN RECEIPTS. Edited by C. W. Quin. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth. “ A useful and handy book, containing a good deal of valuable information.”—Athenaeum. Market Gardening. MARKET AND KITCHEN GARDENING. By Contributors to “ The Garden.” Compiled by C. W. Shaw, late Editor of “ Gardening Illustrated.” i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth boards. [Just published. “ The most valuable compendium of kitchen and market-garden work published.”—Farmer. Cottage Gardening. COTTAGE GARDENING ; or Flowers, Fruits, and Vegetables for Small Gardens. Bv E. Hobday. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth limp. “ Contains much useful information at a small charge.”—Glasgow Herald. Complete Catalogue of Technical Works on application.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON, 7, Stationers’ Hall Court, London, E.C. LOCKWOOD’S HANDYBOOKS FOR HANDICRAFTS By PAUL N. HASLUCK. These Handybooks are written to supply Handicraftsmen with information on workshop practice, and are intended to convey, in plain language, technical knowledge of the several crafts. Workshop terms are used, and workshop practice described, the text being freely illustrated with drawings of modern tools and appli- ances. The following Volumes are already published, and others are in preparation. Metal Turning. THE METAL TURNER’S HANDYBOOK, A Practical Manual for Workers at the Foot-Lathe: Embracing Information on the Tools, Appliances and Processes employed in Metal Turning. By Paul N. Hasluck, Author of “ Lathe-Work.” With upwards of One Hundred Illustrations. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “Clearly and concisely written, excellent in every way, we heartily commend it to all interested in metal tumin—Mechanical World. Wood Turning. THE WOOD TURNER'S HANDYBOOK. A Practical Manual for Workers at the Lathe: Embracing Information on the Tools, Appliances and Processes employed in Wood Turning. By Paul N. Hasluck. With upwards of One Hundred Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “We recommend the book to young turners and amateurs. A multitude of workmen have hitherto sought in vain for a manual of this special industry.”—Mechanical World. Watch Repairing. THE WATCH JOBBER'S HANDYBOOK. A Practical Manual on Cleaning, Repairing, and Adjusting. Embracing Information on the Tools, Materials, Appliances and Processes employed in Watchwork. By Paul N. Hasluck. With upwards of One Hundred Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ All young persons connected with the trade should acquire and study this excellent and at the same time, inexpensive work.”—Clerlcenwell Chronicle. Pattern Making. THE PATTERN MAKER'S HANDYBOOK. A Practical Manual, embracing Information on the Tools, Materials, and Appliances employed in Constructing Patterns for Founders. By Paul N. Hasluck. With One Hundred Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2S. cloth. “ This handy volume contains sound information of considerable value to students and artificers.”— Hardware Trades Journal. Mechanical Manipulation. THE MECHANIC'S WORKSHOP HANDYBOOK. A Practical Manual on Mechanical Manipulation. Embracing Information on various. Handicraft Processes, with Useful Notes and Miscellaneous Memoranda. By Paul N. Hasluck. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ It is a book which should be found in every workshop, as it is one which will be continually referred to for a very great amount of standard information.”—Saturday Review. Model Engineering. THE MODEL ENGINEER'S HANDYBOOK: A Practical Manual on Model Steam Engines. Embracing Information on the Tools, Materials and Processes employed in their Construction. By Paul N. Hasluck. With upwards of ioo Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ By carefully going through the work, amateurs may pick up an excellent notion of the construction of full-sized steam engines.”—Telegraphic Journal. Clock Repairing. THE CLOCK JOBBER'S HANDYBOOK: A Practical Manual on Cleaning, Repairing and Adjusting. Embracing Information on the Tools, Materials, Appliances and Processes Employed in Clockwork. By Paul N. Hasluck. With upwards of ioo Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2S. cloth. * f Complete Catalogue of Technical Works on application.7, Stationers' Hall Court, London, ££,C October, 1889, A CATALOGUE OF BOOKS INCLUDING MANY NEW AND STANDARD WORKS IN ENGINEERING, MECHANICS, ARCHITECTURE, NATURAL AND APPLIED SCIENCE, INDUSTRIAL ARTS, TRADE AND COMMERCE, AGRICULTURE, GARDENING, LAND MANAGEMENT, LAW, tie, PUBLISHED BY CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON. MECHANICS, MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, etc. New Manual for Practical Engineers, THE PRACTICAL ENGINEER’S HAND-BOOK. Comprising a Treatise on Modern Engines and Boilers!: Marine, Locomotive and Sta- tionary. And containing a large collection of Rules and Practical Data relating to recent Practice in Designing and Constructing all kinds of Engines, Boilers, and other Engineering work. The whole constituting a comprehensive Key to the Board of Trade and other Examinations for Certi- ficates of Competency in Modern Mechanical Engineering. By Walter S. Hutton, Civil and Mechanical Engineer, Author of “The Works’ Manager’s Handbook for Engineers,” &c. With upwards of 370 Illustrations. Third Edition, Revised, with Additions. Medium 8vo, nearly 500 pp., price 18s. Strongly bound. [Just published. IS” This work is designed as a companion to the Author's “Works’ Manager’s Hand-book.” It possesses many new and original features, and con- tains, like its predecessor, a quantity of matter not originally intended for publica- tion, but collected by the author for his own use in the construction of a great variety of modern engineering work. The information is given in a condensed and concise form, and is illustrated by upwards of 370 Woodcuts; and comprises a quantity of tabulated matter of great value to all engaged in designing, constructing, or estimating for Engines, Boilers and other Engineering Work. *** Opinions of the Press. “ We have kept it at hand for several weeks, referring to it as occasion arose, and we have not on a single occasion consulted its pages without finding the information of which we were in quest.” —Athenceum. “ A>thoroughly good practical handbook, which no engineer can go through without learning Something that will be of service to him.”—Marine Engineer. “ An excellent book of reference for engineers, and a valuable text-book for students of engineering. ”—Scotsman. “ This valuable manual embodies the results and experience of the leading authorities on mechanical engineering.”—Building News. “ The author has collected together a surprising quantity of rules and practical data, and has shown much judgment in the selections he has made. . . . There is no doubt that this book is one of t ha most useful of its kind published, and will be a very popular compendium.”—Engineer. “ A mass of information, set down in simple language, and in such a form that it can be easily referred to at any time. The matter is uniformly good and well chosen, and is greatly elucidated by the illustrations. The book will find its way on to most engineers’ shelves, where it will rank as one of the most useful books of reference.”—Practical Engiiieer. “ Full of useful information, and should be found on the office shelf of all practical engineers.” —English Mechanic.CROSBY LOCKWOOD <S- SON’S CATALOGUE. Handbook, for Works’ Managers. THE WORKS’ MANAGER’S HANDBOOK OF MODERN RULES, TABLES, AND DATA. For Engineers, Millwrights, and Boiler Makers; Tool Makers, Machinists, and Metal Workers; Iron and Brass Founders, &c. By W. S. Hutton, Civil and Mechanical Engineer, Author of “The Practical Engineer’s Handbook.” Third Edition, carefully Revised, with Additions. In One handsome Vol., medium 8vo price 15s. strongly bound. IS” The Author having compiled Rules and Data for his own use in a great variety of modern engineering work, and having found his notes extremely useful, decided to publish them—revised to date—believing that a practical work, suited to the daily requirements of modern engineers, would be favourably received. In the Third Edition, the following among other additions have been made, viz.: Rules for the Proportions of Riveted Joints in Soft Steel Plates, the Results of Experi- ments by Professor Kennedy for the Institution of Mechanical Engineers—Rules for the Proportions of Turbines—Rules for the Strength of Hollow Shafts of Whit- .worth's Compressed Steel, &c. *** Opinions of the Press. “The author treats every subject from the point of view of one who has collected workshop litotes for application in workshop practice, rather than from the theoretical or literary aspect. The volume contains a great deal of that kind of information which is gained only by practical experi- ence, and is seldom written in books.”—Engineer. “The volume is an exceedingly useful one, brimful with engineers’ notes, memoranda, and rules, and well worthy of being on every mechanical engineer’s bookshelf.”—Mechanical World. “A formidable mass of facts and figures, readily accessible through an elaborate index .... Such a volume will be found absolutely necessary as a book of reference in all sorts of ‘works ’ connected with the metal trades.”—Ryland's iron Trades Circular. “ Brimful of useful information, stated in a concise form, Mr. Hutton’s books have met a press- ing want among engineers. The book must prove extremely useful to every practiced man . possessing a copy.”—Practical Engineer. 46 The Modernised Templeton THE PRACTICAL MECHANIC'S WORKSHOP COM- PANION. Comprising a great variety of the most useful Rules and Formulas in Mechanical Science, with numerous Tables of Practical Data and Calcu- lated Results for Facilitating Mechanical Operations. By William Temple- ton, Author of “The Engineer’s Practical Assistant,” &c. &c. Fifteenth Edition, Revised, Modernised, and considerably Enlarged by Walter S. Hutton, C.E., Author of “The Works’ Manager’s Handbook,” “The Practical Engineer’s Handbook,” &c. Fcap. 8vo, nearly 500 pp., with Eight Plates and upwards of 250 Illustrative Diagrams, 6s., strongly bound for workshop or pocket wear and tear. Templeton’s “ Mechanic’s Workshop Companion ” has been for more than a quarter of a century deservedly popular, and, as the well-worn and thumb- marked vade mecum of several generations of intelligent and aspiring workmen, it has had the reputation of having been the means of raising many of them in their position in life. In consequence of the lapse of time since the Author's death, and the great advances in Mechanical Science, the Publishers have thought it advisable to have it entirely Reconstructed and Modernised; and in its present greatly Enlarged and Improved form, they are sure that it will commend itself to the English workmen oj the present day all the world over, and become, like its predecessors, their indispens- able friend and referee. A smaller type having been adopted, and the page increased in size, while the number of pages has advanced from about 330 to nearly 500, the book practically con- tains double the amount of matter that was comprised in the original work. *** Opinions of the Press. “ In its modernised form Hutton’s ‘ Templeton ’ should have a wide sale, for it contains much valuable information which the mechanic will often find of use, and not a few tables and notes which he might look for in vain in other works. This modernised edition will be appreciated by all who have learned to value the original editions of ‘ Templeton.’ "—English Mechanic. <« it has met with great success in the engineering workshop, as we can testify; and there are a great many men who, in a great measure, owe their rise in life to this little book.’'—BuildingNews. 8 “ This familiar text-book—well known to all mechanics and engineers—is of essential service to the everyday requirements of engineers, millwrights, and the various trades connected with engineering and building. The new modernised edition is worth its weight in gold.’’—Building ^^‘\h^pub&heK wfsely entrusted the task of revision of this popular, valuable and useful book to Mr, Hutton, than whom a more competent man they could not have found.”—Iron.MECHANICS, MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, etc. 3 Stone-worhing Machinery. STONE-WORKING MACHINERY, and the Rapid and Economic cal Conversion of Stone. With Hints on the Arrangement and Management of Stone Works. By M. Powis Bale, M.I.M.E. Crown 8vo, 9s. “ Should be in the hands of every mason or student of stone-work.”—Colliery Guardian. "It is in every sense of the word a standard.work upon a subject which the author is fully competent to deal exhaustively with.”—Builder's Weekly Reporter. "A capital handbook for all who manipulate stone for building- or ornamental purposes.”— Machinery Market. I*ump Construction and Management. RUMPS AND PUMPING : A Handbook for Pump Users. Being Notes on Selection, Construction and Management. By M. Powis Bale, M.I.M.E., Author of “ Woodworking Machinery,” “ Saw Mills,” &c. Crown 8vo, 2S. 6d. cloth. [Just published. " The matter is set forth as concisely as possible. In fact, condensation rather than diffuseness lias been the author’s aim throughout; yet he does not seem to have omitted anything likely to be of use.”—jfournal of Gas Lighting. “ Thoroughly practical and simply and clearly written.”—Glasgow Herald. Turning. LATHE-WORK : A Practical Treatise on the Tools, Appliances, and Processes employed in the Art of Turning. By Paul N. Hasluck. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ Written by a man who knows, not only how work ought to be done, but who also knows how to do it, and how to convey his knowledge to others. To all turners this book would be valuable.” —Engineering-. “ We can safely recommend the work to young engineers. To the amateur it will simply be invaluable. To the student it will convey a great deal of useful information.”—Engineer. “A compact succinct, and handy guide to lathe-work did not exist in our language until Mr. Hasluck, by the publication of this treatise, gave the turner atru ^vade-mecum.''—House Decorator. Screw-Cutting. SCREW THREADS : And Methods of Producing Them. With Numerous Tables, and complete directions for using Screw-Cutting Lathes. By Paul N. Hasluck, Author of “ Lathe-Work,” &c. With Fifty Illustra- tions. Second Edition. Waistcoat-pocket size, price is. cloth. “ Full of useful information, hints and practical criticism. Taps, dies and screwing-tools gene- rally are illustrated and their action described.”—Mechanical World. Smith’s Tables for Mechanics, etc. TABLES, MEMORANDA, AND CALCULATED RESULTS, FOR MECHANICS, ENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS, BUILDERS, etc. Selected and Arranged by Francis Smith. Fourth Edition, Revised and En- larged, 250 pp., waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d. limp leather. “ It would, perhaps, be as difficult to make a small pocket-book selection of notes and formulae to suit ALL engineers as it would be to make a universal medicine; but Mr. Smith’s waistcoat- pocket collection may be looked upon as a successful attempt.”—Engineer. “The best example we have ever seen of 250 pages of useful matter packed into the dimen- sions Of a card-case.”—Building News. “A veritable pocket treasury of knowledge.”—Iron. Engineer’s and Machinist’s Assistant. THE ENGINEER'S, MILLWRIGHT'S, and MACHINIST'S PRACTICAL ASSISTANT. A collection of Useful Tables, Rules and Data. By William Templeton. 7th Edition, with Additions. i8mo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ Occupies a foremost place among books of this kind. A more suitable present to an appren tice to any of the mechanical trades could not possibly be made.”—Building News. “A deservedly popular.work.it should be in the ‘drawer’ of every mechanic.”—English Mechanic. Iron and Steel. “ IRON AND STEEL A Work for the Forge, Foundry, Factory, and Office. Containing ready, useful, and trustworthy Information for Iron- masters and their Stock-takers; Managers of Bar, Rail, Plate, and Sheet Rolling Mills: Iron and Metal Founders; Iron Ship and Bridge Builders ; Mechanical, Mining, and Consulting Engineers ; Architects,Builders, and Draughtsmen. By Charles Hoare, Author of “ The Slide Rule,” &c. Eighth Edition, Revised and considerably Enlarged. 32010, 6s. leather. One of the best of the pocket books.”—English Mechanic. “ We cordially recommend this book to those engaged in considering the details of all kinds of iron and steel works.”—Naval Science.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. 4 Engineeving Construction, PATTERN-MAKING : A Practical Treatise, embracing the Main Types of Engineering Construction, and including Gearing, both Hand and Machine made, Engine Work, Sheaves and Pulleys, Pipes and Columns, Screws, Machine Parts, Pumps and Cocks, the Moulding of Patterns in Loam and Greensand, &c., together with the methods of Estimating the weight of Castings; to which is added an Appendix of Tables for Workshop Reference. By a Foreman Pattern Maker. With upwards of Three Hundred and Seventy Illustrations. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth. “ A well written technical guide, evidently’- written by a man who understands and has prac- tised what he has written about. We cordially recommend it to engineering students, young journeymen, and others desirous of being ini; iated into the mysteries of pattern-making.”—Builder. “ Likely to prove a welcome guide to many workmen, especially to draughtsmen who have lacked a training in the sliops_, pupils pursuing their practical studies in our factories, and to em- ployers and managers in engineering works.”— Hardware Trade Journal. “More than 370 illustrations help to explain the text, which is, however, always clear and ex- plicit, thus rendering the work an excellent vade mecum for the apprentice who desires to become master of his trade.”—English Mechanic. Dictionary of Mechanical Engineering Terms, LOCKWOOD'S DICTIONARY OF TERMS USED IN THE PRACTICE OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, embracing those current in the Drawing Office, Pattern Shop, Foundry, Fitting, Turning, Smith’s and Boiler Shops, &c. &c. Comprising upwards of 6,000 Definitions. Edited by A Foreman Pattern-Maker, Author of “ Pattern Making.” Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth. “Just the sort of handy dictionary required by the various trades engaged in mechanical en- gineering. The practical engineering pupil will find the book of great value in his studies, and every foreman engineer and mechanic should have a copy. —Building News. “After a careful examination of the book, and trying all manner of words, we think that the engineer will here find all he is likely to require. It will be argely used.”—Practical Engineer. “This admirable dictionary, although primarily intended for the use of draughtsmen and other technical craftsmen, is of much larger value as a book of reference, and will find a ready welcome in many libraries.”— Glasgow Herald. “One of the most useful books which can be presented to a mechanic or student.’’—English Mechanic. “ Not merely a dictionary, but, to a certatn extent, also a most valuable guide. It strikes us as a happy idea to combine with a definition of the phrase useful information on the subject of which it treats.”—Machinery Market. “ This careiully-compiled volume forms a kind of pocket cyclopaedia of the extensive subject to Which it is devoted. No word having connection with any branch of constructive engineering seems to be omitted. No more comprehensive wo k has been, so far, issued.”—Knowledge. “ We strongly commend this useful and reliable adviser to our friends in the workshop, and to students everywhere.”—Colliery Guardian. Steam Boilers, A TREATISE ON STEAM BOILERS: Their Strength, Con- struction, and Economical Working. By Robert Wilson, C.E. Fifth Edition, i2mo, 6s. cloth. “The best treatise that has ever been published on steam boilers.”—Engineer. “ The author shows himself perfect master of his subject, and we heartily recommend all em- ploying steam power to possess themselves of the work.”—Ryland's Iron Trade Circular. Boiler Chimneys, BOILER AND FACTORY CHIMNEYS; Their Draught-Power and Stability. With a Chapter on Lightning Conductors. By Robert Wilson, C.E., Author of “ A Treatise on Steam Boilers,” &c. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “Full of useful information, definite in statement, and thoroughly practical in treatment.”— The Local Government Chronicle. “ A valuable contribution to the literature of scientific building. . . . The whole subject is a very interesting and important one, and it is gratifying to know that it has fallen into such com- petent hands.”— The Builder. Boiler Making, THE BOILER-MAKER'S READY RECKONER. With Ex- amples of Practical Geometry and Templating, for the Use of Platers, Smiths and Riveters. By John Courtney, Edited by D. K. Clark, M.I.C.E. Second Edition, Revised, with Additions, i2mo, 5s. half-bound. “ No workman or apprentice should be without this book."—Iron Trade Circular. “ A reliable guide to the working boiler-maker.”—/rott. Boiler-makers will readily recognise the value of this volume. . . . The tables are clearly printed, and so arranged that they can be referred to with the greatest facility, so that it cannot be doubted that they will be generally appreciated and much used.”—Mining JourTial.MECHANICS, MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, etc. 5 Steam Engine. TEXT-BOOK ON THE STEAM ENGINE. With a Sup- plement on Gas Engines. By T. M. Goodeve, M.A., Barrister-at-Law, Author of “The Elements of Mechanism,” &c. Tenth Edition, Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s. cloth. [J-ust published. ■“Professor Goodeve has given us a treatise on the steam engine which will bear comparison with anything written by Huxley or Maxwell, and we can award it no higher praise.”—Engineer. “ Professor Goodeve's book is ably and clearly written. It is a sound work."—Athenaum. “ Mr. Goodeve’s text-book is a work of which every young engineer should possess himself.” —Mining Journal. “ Essentially practical in ts aim. The manner of exposition leaves nothing to be desired."— Scotsman. Gas Engines. ON GAS-ENGINES. Being a Reprint, with some Additions, of the Supplement to the Text-book on the S earn Engine, by T. M. Goodeve, M.A. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ Like all Mr. Goodeve’s writings, the presenti s no exception in point of general excellence, ft is a valuable little volume.’’—Meehanical World. “ This little book will be useful to those who desire to understand how the gas-engine works.’ —English Mechanic. Steam, THE SAFE USE OF STEAM. Containing Rules for Un- professional Steam-users. By an Engineer. Sixth Edition. Sewed, 6d. “ If steam-users would but iearn this little book by heart boiler explosions would become sensations by their rarity.”—English Mechanic. Coal and Speed Tables. A POCKET BOOK OF COAL AND SPEED TABLES, f r Engineers and, Steam-users. By Nelson Foley, Author of “ Boiler Con- struction.” Pocket-size, 3s. 6d. cloth ; 4s. leather. “This is a very useful book, containing very useful tables. The results given are well chosen, and the volume contains evidence that the author really understands his subject. We can recom- mend the work with pleasure.”—Mechanical Worli. “ These tables are designed to meet the requirements of every-day use ; they are of sufficient scope for most practical purposes, and may be commended to engineers and users of steam.”— Iron. “ This pocket-book well merits the attention of the practical engineer. Mr. Foley has com- piled a very useful set of tables, the information contained in which is frequently required by engineers, coal consumers and users of steam.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. Eire Engineering. FIRES, FIRE-ENGINES, AND FIRE-BRIGADES. With a History of Fire-Engines, their Construction, Use, and Management; Re- marks on Fire-Proof Buildings, and the Preservation of Life from Fire ; Statistics of the Fire Appliances in English Towns; Foreign Fire Systems ; Hints on Fire Brigades &c. &c. By Charles F. T. Young, C.E. With numerous Illustrations, 544 pp., demy 8vo, £1 4s. cloth. “ To such of our readers as are interested in the subject of fires and fire apparatus, we can most heartily commend this book. It is really the only English work we now have upon the subject.”— Engineering. “It displays much evidence of careful research; and Mr. Young has put his facts neatly together. It is evident enough that his acquaintance with the practical details of the construction of steam fire engines, old and new, and the conditions with which it is necessary they should comply, Is accurate and full.”—Engineer. Gas Lighting, COMMON SENSE FOR GAS-USERS: A Catechism of Gas- Lighting for Householders, Gasfitters, MMourners, Architects, Engineers, etc. By Robert Wilson, C.E., Author of “A Treatise on Steam Boilers.” Second Edition, with Folding Plates and Wood Engravings. Crown 8vo, price is. in wrapper. “ All gas-users will decidedly benefit, both in pocket and comfort, if they will avail themselves of Mr. Wilson’s counsels.”—Engineering. Dynamo Construction. HO W TO MAKE A D YN AMO : A Practical Treatise for Amateurs. Containing numerous Illustrations and Detailed Instructions for Construct- ing a Small Dynamo, to Produce the Electric Light. By Alfred Crofts. Second Edition. Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. [Just published. “The instructions given in this unpretentious little book are suffi iently clear and explicit to -enable any amateur m ichanic possess *d of average skill and the usual tools to be found in an amateur’s workshop, to build a practical dynamo ^na dime.Electrician.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. 6 THE POPULAR WORKS OF MICHAEL REYNOLDS (“The Engine Driver’s Friend’’). Locomotive-Engine Driving. LOCOMOTIVE-ENGINE DRIVING : A Practical Manual for Engineers in charge of Locomotive Engines. By Michael Reynolds, Member of the Society of Engineers, formerly Locomotive Inspector L. B. and S. C. R. Eighth Edition. Including a Key to the Locomotive Engine. With Illus- trations and Portrait of Author. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ Mr. Reynolds has supplied a want, and has supplied it well. We can confidently recommend the book, not only to the practical driver, but to everyone who takes an interest in the performance of locomotive engines.”—The Engineer. “ Mr. Reynolds has opened a new chapter in the literature of the day. This admirable practical treatise, of the practical utility of which we have to speak in terms of warm commendation.”— Atheneeum. “ Evidently the work of one who knows his subject thoroughly.”— Railway Service Gazette. “Were the cautions and rules given in the book to become part of the every-day working of our engine-drivers, we might have fewer distressing accidents to deplore.”—Scotsman. Stationary Engine Driving. STATIONARY ENGINE DRIVING : A Practical Manual for Engineers in charge of Stationary Engines. By Michael Reynolds. Third Edition, Enlarged. With Plates and Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “The author is thoroughly acquainted with his subjects, and his advice on the various points treated is clear and practical. ... He has produced a manual which is an exceedingly useful one for the class for whom it is specially intended.”—Engineering. “ Our author leaves no stone unturned. He is determined that his readers shall not only know something about the stationary engine, but all about it."—Efigineer. “An engineman who has mastered the contents of Mr.Reynolds’s bookwiH require but little actual experience with boilers and engines before he can be trusted to look after them.”—EnglishMechanic. The Engineer, Fireman, and Engine-Boy. THE MODEL LOCOMOTIVE ENGINEER, FIREMAN, and ENGINE-BOY. Comprising a Historical Notice of the Pioneer Locomotive Engines and their Inventors. By Michael Reynolds. With numerous Illus- trations and a fine Portrait of George Stephenson. Crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ From the technical knowledge of the author it will appeal to the railway man of to-day more forcibly than anything written by Dr. Smiles. . . . The volume contains information of a tech- nical kind, and facts that every driver should be familiar with.”—English Mechanic. “We should be glad to see this book in the possession of everyone in the kingdom who has ever laid, or is to lay, hands on a locomotive engine.”—Iron. Continuous Railivay Brakes. CONTINUOUS RAILWAY BRAKES: A Practical Treatise on the several Systems in Use in the United Kingdom; their Construction and Performance. With copious Illustrations and numerous Tables. By Michael Reynolds, Large crown 8vo, gs. cloth. “ A popular explanation of the different brakes. It will be of great assistance in forming public opinion, and will be studied with benefit by those who take an interest in the brake.”—English Mechanic. “Written with sufficient technical detail to enable the principle and relative connection of the various parts of each particular brake to be readily grasped.”—Mechanical World. Engine-Driving Life. ENGINE-DRIVING LIFE : Stirring Adventures and Incidents in the Lives of Locomotive-Engine Drivers. By Michael Reynolds. Second Edition, with Additional Chapters. Crown 8vo. 2s. cloth. [Just published. “From first to last perfectly fascinating. Wilkie Collins's most thrilling conceptions are thrown Into the shade by true incidents, endless in their variety, related in every page.”—North British Mail. “Anyone who wishes to get a real insight into railway life cannot do better than read ‘ Engine- Driving Life ’ for himself; and if he once take it up he will find that the author’s enthusiasm and real love of the engine-driving profession will carry him on till he has read every page.”—Saturday Review. Docket Companion for Enginemen. THE ENGINEMAN’S POCKET COMPANION AND PRAC- TICAL EDUCATOR FOR ENGINEMEN, BOILER ATTENDANTS, AND MECHANICS. By Michael Reynolds. With Forty-five Illustra- tions and numerous Diagrams. Second Edition, Revised. Royal i8mo, 3s. 6d., strongly bound for pocket wear. “ This admirable work is well suited to accomplish its object, being the honest workmanship of a competent engineer.”—Glasgow Herald. “ A most meritorious work, giving in a succinct and practical form all the information an engine- minder desirous of mastering the scientific principles of his da:ly calling would require.”—Miller. “ A boon to those who are striving to become efficient mechanics.”—Daily Chronicle.CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. 7 French-English Glossary for Engineers, etc. A POCKET GLOSSARY of TECHNICAL TERMS: ENGLISH- FRENCH, FRENCH-ENGLISH ; with Tables suitable for the Architectural, Engineering, Manufacturing and Nautical Professions. By John James Fletcher, Engineer and Surveyor ; 200 pp. Waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d., limp leather. “ It ought certainly to be in the -waistcoat-pocket of every professional man. —Iron. “It is a very great advantage for readers and correspondents in France and England to have so large a number of the words relating to engineering and manufacturers collected in a liliputian volume. The little book will be useful both to students and travellers.”—Architect. “ The glossary of terms is very complete, and many of the tables are new and well arranged. We cordially commend the book.—Mechanical World. Portable Engines. THE PORTABLE ENGINE; ITS CONSTRUCTION AND MANAGEMENT. A Practical Manual for Owners and Users of Steam Engines generally. By William Dyson Wansbrough. With 90 Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ This is a work of value to those who use steam machinery. . . . Should be read by every- one who has a steam engine, on a farm or elsewhere.”—Mark Lane Express. “ We cordially commend this work to buyers and owners of steam engines, and to those who have to do with their construction or use."—Timber Trades Journal. “ Such a general knowledge of the steam engine as Mr. Wansbrough furnishes to the reader should be acquired by all intelligent owners and others who use the steam engine.”—Building News. CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. MR. HUMBER’S IMPORTANT ENGINEERING BOOKS. The Water Supply of Cities and Towns. A COMPREHENSIVE TREATISE on the WATER-SUPPLY OF CITIES AND TOWNS. By William Humber, A-M.Inst.C.E., and M. Inst. M.E., Author of “ Cast and Wrought Iron Bridge Construction,” &c. &c. Illustrated with 50 Double Plates, 1 Single Plate, Coloured Frontispiece, and upwards of 250 Woodcuts, and containing 400 pages of Text. Imp. 4to, £6 6s. elegantly and substantially half-bound in morocco. List of Contents. I. Historical Sketch of some of the means that have been adopted for the Supply of Water to Cities and Towns.—II. Water and the Fo- reign Matter usually associated with it.—III. Rainfall and Evaporation.—IV. Springs and the water-bearing formations of various dis- tricts.—V. Measurement and Estimation of the flow of Water—VI. On the Selection of the Source of Supply.-VII. Wells.-VIII. Reser- voirs.—IX. The Purification of Water.—X. Pumps. — XI. Pumping Machinery. — XII. “The most systematic and valuable work upon water supply hitherto produced in English, or In any other language. . . . Mr. Humbers work is characterised almost throughout by an exhaustiveness much more distinctive of French and German than of English technical treatises.” —Engineer. “ We can congratulate Mr. Humber on having been able to give so large an amount of infor- Conduits.—XIII. Distribution of Water.—XIV. Meters, Service Pipes, and House Fittings.— XV. The Law and Economy of Water Works. XVI; Constant and Intermittent Supply.— XVII. Description of Plates. — Appendices, giving Tables of Rates of Supply, Velocities, &c. &c., together with Specifications of severed Works illustrated, among which will be found: Aberdeen, Bideford, Canterbury, Dundee, Cast and Wrought Iron Bridge Construction. A COMPLETE AND PRACTICAL TREATISE ON CAST AND WROUGHT IRON BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION, including Iron Foundations. In Three Parts—Theoretical, Practical, and Descriptive. By William Humber, A.M.Inst.C.E., and M.Inst.M.E. Third Edition, Re- vised and much improved, with 115 Double Plates (20 of which now first appear in this edition), and numerous Additions to the Text. In Two Vols., imp. 4to, £6 16s. 6d. half-bound in morocco. “A very valuable contribution to the standard literature of civil engineering. In addition to elevations, plans and sections, large scale details are given which very much enhance the instruc- tive worth of those illustrations.”—Civil Engineer and Architect’s Journal. “Mr. Humber’s stately volumes, lately issued—in which the most important bridges erected during the last five years, under the direction of the late Mr. Brunei, Sir W. Cubitt, Mr. Hawk- shaw, Mr. Page, Mr. Fowler, Mr. Hemans, and others among our most eminent engineers, are drawn and specified in great detail.”—Engineer.CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. MR. HUMBER’S GREAT WORK ON MODERN ENGINEERING. Complete in Four Volumes, imperial 4to, price £12 12s., half-morocco. Each Volume sold separately as follows:— A RECORD OF THE PROGRESS OF MODERN ENGINEER- ING. First Series. Comprising Civil, Mechanical, Marine, Hydraulic, Railway, Bridge, and other Engineering Works, &c. By William Humber, A-M.Inst.C.E., &c. Imp. 4to, with 36 Double Plates, drawn to a large scale, Photographic Portrait of John Hawkshaw, C.E., F.R.S., &c., and copious descriptive Letterpress, Specifications, &c., £3 3s. half-morocco. Victoria Station and Roof, L. B. & S. C. R. (8 plates); Southport Pier (2 plates); Victoria Station and Rool, L. C. & D. and G. W. R. (6 plates); Roof of Cremorne Music Hall; Bridge over G. N. Railway ; Roof of Station, Dutch List of the Plates and Diagrams. Thames, West London Extension Railway (5 plates); Armour Plates: Suspension Bridge, Thames (4 plates); The Allen Engine; Sus- pension Bridge, Avon (3 plates); Underground Railway (3 plates). Rhenish Rail (2 plates); Bridge “ Handsomely lithographed and printed. It will find favour with many who desire to preserve !r» a permanent form copies of the plans and specifications prepared for the guidance of the con- tractors for many important engineering works.’’—Engineer. HUMBER'S RECORD OF MODERN ENGINEERING. Second Series, Imp. 4to, with 36 Double Plates, Photographic Portrait of Robert Stephenson, C.E., M.P., F.R.S., &c., and copious descriptive Letterpress, Specifications, &c., £3 3s. half-morocco. List of the Plates and Diagrams. Northern Railway ; Robbery Wood Viaduct, Great Northern Railway; Iron Permanent Way; Clydach Viaduct, Merthyr, Tredegar, and Abergavenny Railway; Ebbw Viaduct, Merthyr, Tredegar, and Abergavenny Rail- way ; College Wood Viaduct, Cornwall Rail- way ; Dublin Winter Palace Roof (3 plates); Bridge over the Thames, L. C. & D. Railway (6 plates); Albert Harbour, Greenock (4 plates). HUMBER’S RECORD OF MODERN ENGINEERING. Third Series. Imp. 4to, with 40 Double Plates, Photographic Portrait of J. R. M'Clean, late Pres. Inst. C.E., and copious descriptive Letterpress, Speci- fications, &c., £3 3s. half-morocco. List of the Plates and Diagrams. Main Drainage, Metropolis.—North Side.—Map showing Interception of Sewers; Middle Level Sewer (2 plates); Outfall Sewer, Bridge over River Lea (3 plates); Outfall Sewer, Bridge over Marsh Lane, North Woolwich Railway, and Bow and Barking Railway Junc- tion ; Outfall Sewer, Bridge over Bow and Barking Railway (3 plates); Outfall Sewer, Bridge over East London Waterworks’ Feeder (2 plates); Outfall Sewer, Reservoir (2 plates); Outfall Sewer, Tumbling Bay and Outlet; Out- fall Sewer, Penstocks. South Side.—Outfall Sewer, Bermondsey Branch (2 plates); Outfall “ The drawings have a constantly increasing sentations of the two great works carried out' volume.”—Engineer. Sewer, Reservoir and Outlet (4 plates); Outfall Sewer, Filth Hoist; Sections of Sewers (North and South Sides). Thames Embankment.—Section of River Wall; Steamboat Pier, Westminster (2 plates), Landing Stairs between Charing Cross and Waterloo Bridges; York Gate (2 plates); Over- flow and Outlet at Savoy Street Sewer (3 plates); Steamboat Pier, Waterloo Bridge (3 plates); Junction of Sewers, Plans and Sections; Gullies, Plans and Sections; Rolling Stock; Granite and Iron Forts. value, and whoever desires to possess clear repre- our Metropolitan Board will obtain Mr. Humber’s HUMBER’S RECORD OF MODERN ENGINEERING. Fourth Series. Imp. 4to, with 36 Double Plates, Photographic Portrait of John Fowler, late Pres. Inst. C.E., and copious descriptive Letterpress, Speci- fications, &c., £3 3s. half-morocco. List of the Plai Abbey Mills Pumping Station, Main Drain- age, Metropolis (4 plates); Barrow Docks (5 plates); Manquis Viaduct, Santiago and Val- paraiso Railway (2 plates); Adam’s Locomo- tive, St. Helen’s Canal Railway (2 plates); Cannon Street Station Roof, Charing Cross Railway (3 plates); Road Bridge over the River Moka (2 plates); Telegraphic Apparatus for “We gladly welcome another year’s issue Mr. Humber. The accuracy and general excel ness in giving the measurements and details < c irried out by the most eminent men in the pro es and Diagrams. Mesopotamia; Viaduct over the River Wye, Midland Railway (3 plates); St. Germans Via- duct, Cornwall Railway (2 plates); Wrought- Iron Cylinder for Diving Bell; Millwall Docks (6 plates); Milroy’s Patent Excavator; Metro- politan District Railway (6 plates); Harbours, Ports, and Breakwaters (3 plates). of this valuable publication from the able pen of lence of this work are well known, while its useful- jf some of the latest examples of engineering, as fession, cannot be too highly prized.”—^rtizan.CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. 9 MR. HUMBER’S ENGINEERING BOOKS—continued. Strains, Calculation of. A HANDY BOOK FOR THE CALCULATION OF STRAINS IN GIRDERS AND SIMILAR STRUCTURES, AND THEIR STRENGTH. Consisting of Formulas and Corresponding Diagrams, with numerous details for Practical Application, &c. By William Humber, A-M.Inst.C.E., &c. Fourth Edition, Crown 8vo, nearly ioo Woodcuts and 3 Plates, 75. 6d. cloth, “ The formulae are neatly expressed, and the diagrams gcod."—Athenaum. “ We heartily commend this really handy book to orr engineer and architect readers.”—Eng- lish Mechanic. Barlow’s Strength of Materials, enlarged by Humber A TREATISE ON THE STRENGTH OF MATERIALS ; with Rules for Application in Architecture, the Construction of Suspension Bridges, Railways, &c. By Peter Barlow, F.R.S. A New Edition, revised by his Sons, P. W. Barlow, F.R.S., and W. H. Barlow, F.R.S.; to which are added, Experiments by Hodgkinson, Fairbairn, and Kirkaldy ; and Formulae for Calculating Girders, &c. Arranged and Edited by W. Humber, A-M.Inst.C.E. Demy 8vo, 400 pp., with 19 large Plates and numerous Wood- cuts, 18s. cloth. “ Valuable alike to the student, tyro, and the experienced practitioner, it will always rank in future, as it has hitherto done, as the standard treatise on that particular subject.”—Engineer. “ There is no greater authority than Barlow.”—Building News. “ As a scientific work of the first class, it deserves a foremost place on the bookshelves of every civil engineer and practical mechanic.”—English Mechanic. Trigonometrical Surveying. AN OUTLINE OF THE METHOD OF CONDUCTING A TRIGONOMETRICAL SURVEY, for the Formation of Geographical and Topographical Maps and Plans, Military Reconnaissance, Levelling, &c., with Useful Problems, Formulae, and Tables. By Lieut.-General Frome, R.E. Fourth Edition, Revised and partly Re-written by Major General Sir Charles Warren, G.C.M.G., R.E. With 19 Plates and 115 Woodcuts, royal 8vo, i5s. cloth. “The simple fact that a fourth edition has been called for is the best testimony to its merits. No words of praise from us can strengthen the position so well and so steadily maintained by this work. Sir Charles Warren has revised the entire work, and made such additions as were necessary to bring every portion of the contents up to the present date.”—Broad Arrow. Oblique Bridges. A PR A CTICA LAND THEORETIC A L ESS A Y ON OBLIQ UE BRIDGES. With 13 large Plates. By the late George Watson Buck, M.I.C.E. Third Edition, revised by his Sen, J. H. Watson Buck, M.I.C.E.; and with the addition of Description to Diagrams for Facilitating the Con- struction of Oblique Bridges, by W. H. Barlow, M.I.C.E. Royal 8vo, 12s. cloth. “ The standard text-book for all engineers regarding skew arches is Mr. Buck's treatise, and it would be impossible to consult a better.”—Engineer. “Mr. Buck’s treatise is recognised as a standard text-book, and his treatment has divested the subject of many of the intricacies supposed to belong to it. As a guide to the engineer and archi- tect, on a confessedly difficult subject, Mr. Buck’s work is unsurpassed.”—Building News. Water Storage, Conveyance and Utilisation. WATER ENGINEERING : A Practical Treatise on the Measure- ment, Storage, Conveyance and Utilisation of Water for the Supply of Towns, for Mill Power, and for other Purposes. By Charles Slagg, Water and Drainage Engineer, A.M.Inst.C.E., Author of “ Sanitary Work in the Smaller Towns, and in Villages,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “As a small practical treatise on the water supply of towns, and on some applications of water-power, the work is in many respects exellent.”— Engineering. “ The author has collated the results deduce d from the experiments of the most eminent authorities, and has presented them in a compact and practical form, accompanied by very clear and detailed explanations. . . . The application of water as a motive power is treated very .carefully and exhaustively "—Builder. “For anyone who desires to begin the study of hydraulics with a consideration of the practical applications of the science there is no better guide. '—Architect.CROSBY LOCKWOOD S- SON'S CATALOGUE. IO Statics, Graphic and Analytic, GRAPHIC AND ANALYTIC STATICS, in their Practical Applu cation to the Treatment cf Stresses in Roofs, Solid Girders, Lattice, Bowstring and Suspension Bridges, Braced Iron Arches and Piers, and other Frameworks. By R. Hudson Graham, C.E. Containing Diagrams and Plates to Scale. With numerous Examples, many taken from existing Structures. Specially arranged for Class-work in Colleges and Universities. Second Edition, Re- vised and Enlarged. 8vo, 16s. cloth. “Mr. Graham’s book will find a place wherever graphic and analytic statics are used or studied.” —Engineer. “ The work is excellent from a practical point of view, and has evidently been prepared with much care. The directions for working are ample, and are illustrated by an abundance of well- selected examples. It is an excellent text-book for the practical draughtsman.”—Athenceum. Student’s Text-Book on Surveying, PRACTICAL SURVEYING : A Text-Book for Students pre- paring for Examination or for Survey-work in the Colonies. By George W. Usill, A.M.I.C.E., Author of “The Statistics of the Water Supply of Great Britain.” With Four Lithographic Plates and upwards of 330 Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ The best forms of instruments are described as to their construction, uses and modes of employment, and there are innumerable hints on work and equipment such as the author, in his experience as surveyor, draughtsman and teacher, has found necessary, and which the student in his inexperience will find most serviceable.”—Engineer. “We have no hesitation in saying that the student will find this treatise a better guide than any of its predecessors. ... It deserves to be recognised as the first book which should be put in the hands of a pupil of Civil Engineering, and every gentleman of education who sets out for the Colonies would find it well to have a copy.”—Architect. “ A very useful, practical handbook on field practice. Clear, accurate and not too con- densed.”—Journal of Education. Survey Practice, AID TO SURVEY PRACTICE, for Reference in Surveying, Level- ling, Setting-out and in Route Surveys of Travellers by Land and Sea. With Tables, Illustrations, and Records. By Lowis D’A. Jackson, A.M.I.C.E., Author of “ Hydraulic Manual,” “ Modern Metrology,” &c. Second Edition, Enlarged. Large crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ Mr. Jackson has produced a valuable vade-memm. for the surveyor. We can recommend this book as containing an admirable supplement to the teaching of the accomplished surveyor,”— Athenceum. “ As a text-book we should advise all surveyors to place it in their libraries, and study well the matured instructions afforded in its pages.”—Colliery Guardian. “ The author brings to his work a fortunate union of theory and practical experience which, aided by a clear and lucid style of writing, renders the book a very useful on z."—Builder. Surveying, Land and Marine, LAND AND MARINE SURVEYING, in Reference to the Pre- paration of Plans for Roads and Railways; Canals, Rivers, Towns’ Water Supplies; Docks and Harbours. With Description and Use of Surveying Instruments. By W. D. Haskoll, C.E., Author of “ Bridge and Viaduct Con- struction,’’ &c. Second Edition, with Additions. Large crown 8vo, 9s. cloth. “ This book must prove of great value to the student. We have no hesitation in recommend- ing it, feeling assured that it will more than repay a careful study.”—Mechanical World. “ We can strongly recommend it as a carefully-written and valuable text-book. It enjoys a well- deserved repute among surveyors.”—Bttilder. “ This volume cannot fail to prove of the utmost practical utility. It may be safely recommended to all students who aspire to become clean and expert surveyors.”—Mining Journal. Tunnelling, PRACTICAL TUNNELLING. Explaining in detail the Setting- out of the works, Shaft-sinking and Heading-driving, Ranging the Lines and Levelling underground, Sub-Excavating, Timbering, and the Construction of the Brickwork of Tunnels, with the amount of Labour required for, and the Cost of, the various portions of the work. By Frederick W. Simms, F.G.S., M.Inst.C.E. Third Edition, Revised and Extended by D. Kinnear Clark, M.Inst. C.E. ; Imperial 8vo, with 21 Folding Plates and numerous Wood Engravings, 30s. cloth. “The estimation in which Mr. Simms's book on tunnelling has been held for over thirty years cannot be more truly expressed than in the words of the late Prof. Rankine:—‘ The best source of in- formation on the subject of tunnels is Mr.F. W. Simms’s work on Practical Tunnelling.’ ”—Architect. “ It has been regarded from the first as a text book of the subject. . . . Mr. Clarke has added immensely to the value of the book.”—Engineer.ii CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. Levelling. A TREATISE ON THE PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICE OF LEVELLING. Showing its Application to purposes of Railway and Civil Engineering, in the Construction of Roads; with Mr.TELFORD’s Rules for the same. By Frederick W. Simms, F.G.S., M.Inst.C.E. Seventh Edition, with the addition of Law’s Practical Examples for Setting-out Railway Curves, and Trautwine’s Field Practice of Laying-out Circular Curves. With 7 Plates and numerous Woodcuts, 8vo, 8s. 6d. cloth. *** Trautwine on Curves may be had separate, 5s. “ The text-book on levelling in most of our engineering schools and colleges.”—Engineer. “ The publishers have rendered a substantial service to the profession, especially to the younger members, by bringing out the present edition of Mr. Simms’s useful work.”—Engitieering. Heat, Expansion by. EXPANSION OF STRUCTURES BY HEAT. By John Keily, C.E., late of the Indian Public Works and Victorian Railway Depart" ments. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. Summary of Contents. Section Section I. Formulas and Data. Section II. Metal Bars. Section III. Simple Frames. Section IV. Complex Frames and Plates. Section V. Thermal Conductivity. “ The aim the author has set before him, vL., — , other structures, is a laudable one, for this is a branch of physics upon which the engineer o tect can find but little reliable and comprehensive data in books.”—Builder. “Whoever is concerned to know the effect of changes of temperature on such structures as suspension bridges and the like, could not do better than consult Mr. Keiiy’s valuable and handy exposition of the geometrical principles involved in these changes.”—Scotsman. VI. Mechanical Force of Heat. Section VII. Work of Expansion and Contraction. Section VIII. Suspension Bridges. Section IX. Masonry Structures. to show the effects of heat upon metallic and Practical Mathematics. MA THEM A TICS FOR PR A CTICA L MEN: Being a Common- place Book of Pure and Mixed Mathematics. Designed chiefly for the use of Civil Engineers, Architects and Surveyors. By Olinthus Gregory, LL.D., F.R.A.S., Enlarged by Henry Law, C.E. 4th Edition, carefully Revised by J. R. Young, formerly Professor of Mathematics, Belfast College. With 13 Plates, 8vo, £1 is. cloth. “ The engineer or architect will here find ready to his hand rules for solving nearly every mathe- matical difficulty that may arise in his practice The rules are in all cases explained by means of examples, in which every step of the process is clearly worked out ."—Builder. “ It is an instructive book for the student, and a text-book for him who, having once mastered the subjects it treats of, needs occasionally to refresh his memory upon them.”—Building News. Hydraulic Tables. HYDRAULIC TABLES, CO-EFFICIENTS, and FORMULA! for finding the Discharge of Water from Orifices, Notches, Weirs, Pipes, and Rivers. With New Formulae, Tables, and General Information on Rainfall, Catchment-Basins, Drainage, Sewerage, Water Supply for Towns and Mill Power. By John Neville, Civil Engineer, M.R.I.A. Third Edition, care- fully Revised, with Additions. Numerous Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, 14s. cloth. “ Alike valuable to students and engineers in practice ; its study will prevent the annoyance of avoidable failures, and assist them to select the readiest means of successfully carrying out any given work connected with hydraulic engineering.”—Mining Journal. “ It is, of all English books on the subject, the one nearest to completeness. . . . From the good arrangement of the matter, the clear explanations, and abundance of formulae, the carefully calculated tables, and, above all, the thorough acquaintance with both theory and construction, which is displayed from first to last, the book will be found to be an acquisition.—Architect. Hydraulics. HYDRAULIC MANUAL. Consisting of Working Tables and Explanatory Text. Intended as a Guide in Hydraulic Calculations and Field Operations. By Lowis D’A. Jackson, Author of “ Aid to Survey Practice,” “ Modern Metrology,’’ &c. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. Large cr. 8vo, 16s. cl. “ The author has had a wide experience in hydraulic engineering and has been a careful ob- server of the facts which have come under his notice, and from the great mass of material at his command he has constructed a manual which may be accepted as a trustworthy guide to this branch of the engineer’s profession. We can heartily recommend this volume to all who desire to be acquainted with the latest development of this important subject.”—Engineering. “The most useful feature of this work is its freedom from what is superannuated, and its thorough adoption of recent experiments ; the text is, in fact, in great part a short account of the great modern experiments."—Nature.CROSBY LOCKWOOD &- SON'S CATALOGUE. 12 Drainage. ON THE DRAINAGE OF LANDS, TOWNS AND BUILD- INGS. By G. D. Dempsey, C.E., Author of “ The Practical Railway En- gineer,” &c. Revised, with large Additions on Recent Practice in Drainage Engineering, by D, Kinnear Clark, M.Inst.C.E. Author of “Tramways : Their Construction and Working,” “ A Manual of Rules, Tables, and Data for Mechanical Engineers,” &c. &c. Crown 8vo, js. 6d. cloth. “ The new matter added to Mr. Dempsey s excellent work is characterised by the comprehen- sive grasp and accuracy of detail for which the name of Mr. D. K. Clark is a sufficient voucher.”— Athenceum. "Asa work on recent practice in drainage engineering, the book is to be commended to all who are making that branch of engineering science their special study.”—Iron. “ A comprehensive manual on drainage engineering, and a useful introduction to the student.” Building News. Tramways and their Working. TRAMWAYS : THEIR CONSTRUCTION AND WORKING. Embracing a Comprehensive History of the System ; with an exhaustive Analysis of the various Modes of Traction, including Horse-Power, Steam, Heated Water, and Compressed Air; a Description of the Varieties of Rolling Stock; and ample Details of Cost and Working Expenses: the Progress recently made in Tramway Construction, &c. &c. By D. Kinnear Clark, M.Inst.C.E. With over 200 Wood Engravings, and 13 Folding Plates. Two Vols., large crown 8vo, 30s. cloth. “ All interested in tramways must refer to it, as all railway engineers have turned to the author’s work 1 Railway Machinery.’”—Engineer. “ An exhaustive and practical work on tramways, in which the history of this kind of locomo- tion, and a description and cost of the various modes of laying tramways, are to be found.”— Building News. “ The best form of rails, the best mode of construction, and the best mechanical appliances are so fairly indicated in the work under review, that any engineer about to construct a tramway will be enabled at once to obtain the practical information which will be of most service to him.”— Athenceum. Oblique Arches. A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF OBLIQUE ARCHES. By John Hart. Third Edition, with Plates. Im- erial Bvo, 8s. cloth. Curves, Tables for Setting-out. TABLES OF TANGENTIAL ANGLES AND MULTIPLES for Setting-out Curves from 5 to 200 Radius. By Alexander Beazeley, M.Inst.C.E. Third Edition. Printed on 48 Cards, and sold in a cloth box, waistcoat-pocket size, 3s. 6d. “ Each table is printed on a small card, which, being placed on the theodolite, leaves the hands free to manipulate the instrument—no small advantage as regards the rapidity of work.”—Engineer. “Very handy ; a man may know that all his day’s work must fall on two of these cards, which he puts into his own card-case, and leaves the rest behind ."—Athenceum. Earthwork. EARTHWORK TABLES. Showing the Contents in Cubic Yards of Embankments, Cuttings, &c., of Heights or Depths up to an average of 80 feet. By Joseph Broadbent, C.E., and Francis Campin, C.E. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ The way in which accuracy is attained, by a simple division ot each cross section into three ■elements, two in which are constant and one variable, is ingenious.”—Athenceum. THE CONSTRUCTION OF LARGE TUNNEL SHAFTS: A Practical and Theoretical Essay. By J. H. Watson Buck, M.Inst.C.E., Resident Engineer, London and North-Western Railway. Illustrated with Folding Plates, royal 8vo, 12s. cloth. “ Many of the methods given are of extreme practical value to the mason ; and the observations on the fonn of arch, the rules for ordering the stone, and the construction of the templates will be found of considerable use. We commend the book to the engineering profession.”—Building News. “Will be regarded by civil engineers as of the utmost value, and calculated to save much time and obviate many mistakes.”—Colliery Guardian. Girders, Strength of. GRAPHIC TABLE FOR FACILITATING THE COM PUT A. TION OF THE WEIGHTS OF WROUGHT IRON AND STEEL GIRDERS, etc., for Parliamentary and other Estimates. By J. H. Watson Buck, M.Inst.C.E, On a Sheet, zs.6d.13 CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING, etc. River Engineering. RIVER BARS: The Causes of their Formation, and their Treat- ment by “ Induced Tidal Scour; ” with a Description of the Successful Re- duction by this Method of the Bar at Dublin. By A. J. Mann, Assist. Eng. to the Dublin Port and Docks Board. Royal 8vo, 7s. 6a. cloth. ■‘We recommend all interested in harbour works—and, indeed, those concerned in the im- provements of rivers generally—to read Mr. Mann’s interesting work on the treatment of river bars.”—Engineer. Trusses, TRUSSES OF WOOD AND IRON. Practical Applications of Science in Determining the Stresses, Breaking Weights, Safe Loads, Scantlings, and Details of Construction, with Complete Working Drawings. By William Griffiths, Surveyor, Assistant Master, Tranmere School of Science and Art. Oblong 8vo, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ This handy little book enters so minutely into every detail connected with the construction of roof trusses, that no student need be ignorant of these matters."—Practical Engineer. Railway Working. SAFE RAILWAY WORKING. A Treatise on Railway Acci- dents : Their Cause and Prevention; with a Description of Modern Appliances and Systems. By Clement E. Stretton, C.E., Vice-President and Con- sulting Engineer, Amalgamated Society of Railway Servants. With illus- trations and Coloured Plates, crown 8vo, 4s. 6d. strongly bound. “ A book for the engineer, the directors, the managers; and, in short, all who wish for informa- tion on railway matters will find a perfect encyclopaedia in ‘ Safe Railway Working.’ "—Railway Review. “ We commend the remarks on railway signalling to all railway managers, especially where a uniform code and practice is advocated.”—Herepath's Railway Journal. “The author maybe congratulated on having collected, in a very convenient form, much valuable information on the principal questious affecting the safe working of railways.”—Rail- way Engineer. Field-Rook for Engineers. THE ENGINEER'S, MINING SURVEYOR'S, AND CON- TRACTOR’S FIELD-BOOK. Consisting of a Series of Tables, with Rules, Explanations of Systems, and use of Theodolite for Traverse Surveying and Plotting the Work with minute accuracy by means of Straight Edge and Set Square only ; Levelling with the Theodolite, Casting-out and Reducing Levels to Datum, and Plotting Sections in the ordinary manner; setting-out Curves with the Theodolite by Tangential Angles and Multiples, with Right and Left-hand Readings of the Instrument: Setting-out Curves without Theodolite, on the System of Tangential Angles by sets of Tangents and Off- sets : and Earthwork Tables to 80 feet deep, calculated for every 6 inches in depth. By W. Davis Haskoll, C.E. With numerous Woodcuts. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 12s. cloth. “The book is very handy ; the separate tables of sines and tangents to every minute will make it useful for many other purposes, the genuine traverse tables existing all the same.”—Athencznm. “ Every person engaged in engineering field operations will estimate the importance of such a work and the amount of valuable time which will be saved by reference to a set of reliable tables prepared with the accuracy and fulness of those given in this volume.”—Railway News. Earthwork, Measurement of. A MANUAL ON EARTHWORK. By Alex. J. S. Graham, C.E. With numerous Diagrams. i8mo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ A great amount of practical information, very admirably arranged, and available for rough estimates, as well as for the more exact calculations required in the engineer’s and contractor's offices.”—Arlizan. Strains in Ironwork. THE STRAINS ON STRUCTURES OF IRONWORK; with Practical Remarks on Iron Construction. By F. W. Sheilds, M.InstC.E, Second Edition, with 5 Plates. Royal 8vo, 5s. cloth. “The student cannot find a better little book on this subject.”—Engineer. Cast Iron and other Metals, Strength of. A PRACTICAL ESSAY ON THE STRENGTH OF CAST IRON AND OTHER METALS. By Thomas Tredgold, C.E. Fifth Edition, including Hodgkinson’s Experimental Researches. 8vo, 12s. cloth.E4 CROSBY LOCKWOOD &• SON’S CATALOGUE. ARCHITECTURE, BUILDING, etc. Construction, THE SCIENCE OF BUILDING : An Elementary Treatise on the Principles of Construction. By E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A., Architect. Second Edition, Revised, with 58 Engravings. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth. “ A very valuable book, which we strongly recommend to all students.”—Builder. “No architectural student should be without this handbook of constructional knowledge.”— Architect. Villa Architecture, A HANDY BOOK OF VILLA ARCHITECTURE : Being a Series of Designs for Villa Residences in various Styles. With Outline Specifications and Estimates. By C. Wickes, Architect, Author of “The Spires and Towers of England,” &c. 61 Plates, 4to, £1 ns. 6d. half-morocco, gilt edges. “ The whole of the designs bear evidence of their being the work of an artistic architect, and they will prove very valuable and suggestive.”—Building News. Text-Booh for Architects, THE ARCHITECT’S GUIDE: Being a Text-Book of Useful Information for Architects, Engineers, Surveyors, Contractors, Clerks of Works, &c. &c. By Frederick Rogers, Architect, Author of “Specifica- tions for Practical Architecture,” &c. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 6s. cloth. “ As a text-book of useful information for architects, engineers, surveyors, &c„ it would be hard to find a handier or more complete little volume.”—Standard. “A young architect could hardly have a better guide-book.”—Timber Trades Journal. Taylor and Cresy’s Home, THE ARCHITECTURAL ANTIQUITIES OF ROME. By the late G. L. Taylor, Esq., F.R.I.B.A., and Edward Cresy, Esq. New Edition, thoroughly Revised by the Rev. Alexander Taylor, M.A. (son of the late G. L. Taylor, Esq.), Fellow of Queen’s College, Oxford, and Chap- lain of Gray’s Inn. Large folio, with 13c Plates, half-bound, £3 3s. N.B.—This is the only book which gives on a large scale, and with the precision of architectural measurement, the principal Monuments of Ancient Rome in plan, elevation, and detail. “Taylor and Cresy’s work has from its first publication been ranked among those professional books which cannot be bettered. ... It would be difficult to find examples of drawings, even among those of the most painstaking students of Gothic, more thoroughly worked out than are the one hundred and thirty plates in this volume.”—Architect. Architectural Drawing, PRACTICAL RULES ON DR A WING, for the Operative Builder and Young Student in Architecture. By George Pyne. With 14 Plates, 4to, ys. 6d. boards. Civil Architecture, THE DECORATIVE PART OF CIVIL ARCHITECTURE. By Sir William Chambers, F.R.S. With Illustrations, Notes, and an Examination of Grecian Architecture, by Joseph Gwilt, F.S.A. Edited by W. H. Leeds. 66 Plates, 4to, 21s. cloth. House Building and Repairing. THE HOUSE-OWNER'S ESTIMATOR ; or, What will it Cost to Build, Alter, or Repair? A Price Book adapted to the Use of Unpro- fessional People, as well as for the Architectural Surveyor and Builder. By James D. Simon, A.R.I.B.A. Edited and Revised by Francis T. W. Miller, A.R.I.B.A. With numerous Illustrations. Fourth Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ In two years it will repay its cost a hundred times over"—Field. “ A very handy book.”—English Mechanic,15 ARCHITECTURE, BUILDING, etc. Designing, Measuring, and Valuing. THE STUDENTS GUIDE to the PRACTICE of MEASUR- ING AND VALUING ARTIFICERS' WORKS. Containing Directions for taking Dimensions, Abstracting the same, and bringing the Quantities into Bill, with Tables of Constants for Valuation of Labour, and for the Calcula- tion^ Areas and Solidities. Originally edited by Edward Dobson, Architect. Revised, with considerable Additions on Mensuration and Construction, and a New Chapter on Dilapidations, Repairs, and Contracts, by E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A. Sixth Edition, including a Complete Form of a Bill of Quantities. With 8 Plates and 63 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. clo [Just published. “ Well fulfils the promise of its title-page, and we can thoroughly recommend it to the class for whose use it has been compiled. Mr. Tarn’s additions and revisions have much increased the usefulness of the work, and have especially augmented its value to students.”—Engineering. “ This edition will be found the most complete treatise on the principles of measuring and valuing artificers’ work that has yet been published.”—Building News. Docket Estimator and Technical Guide. THE POCKET TECHNICAL GUIDE, MEASURER AND ESTIMATOR FOR BUILDERS AND SURVEYORS. Containing Tech- nical Directions for Measuring Work in all the Building Trades, with a Treatise on the Measurement of Timber and Complete Specifications for Houses, Roads, and Drains, and an easy Method of Estimating the various parts of a Building collectively. By A. C. Beaton, Author of “ Quantities and Measurements,” &c. Fifth Edition, carefully Revised and Priced according to the Present Value of Materials and Labour, with 53 Woodcuts, leather, waistcoat-pocket size, is. 6d. gilt edges. [Just published. “ No builder, architect, surveyor, or valuer should be without his ‘ Beaton.”'— Building News. “Contains an extraordinary amount of information in daily requisition in measuring and estimating. Its presence in the pocket will save valuable time and trouble.”—Building World. Donaldson on Specifications. THE HANDBOOK OF SPECIFICATIONS; or, Practical Guide to the Architect, Engineer, Surveyor, and Builder, in drawing up Specifications and Contracts for Works and Constructions. Illustrated by Precedents of Buildings actually executed by eminent Architects and En- gineers. By Professor T. L. Donaldson, P.R.I.B.A., &c. New Edition, in One large Vol., 8vo, with upwards of 1,000 pages of Text, and 33 Plates, £1 ns. 6d. cloth “ In this work forty-four specifications of executed works are given, including the specifica- tions for parts of the new Houses of Parliament, by Sir Charles Barry, and for the new Royal Exchange, by Mr. Tite, M.P. The latter, in particular, is a very complete and remarkable document. It embodies, to a great extent, as Mr. Donaldson mentions, ‘the bill of quantities with the description of the works.’ ... It is valuable as a record, and more valuable still as a book of precedents. . . . Suffice it to say that Donaldson's ‘Handbook of Specifications’ must be bought by all architects.”—Builder. Bartholomew and Bogers9 Specifications. SPECIFICATIONS FOR PRACTICAL ARCHITECTURE. A Guide to the Architect, Engineer, Surveyor, and Builder. With an Essay on the Structure and Science of Modern Buildings. Upon the Basis of the Work by Alfred Bartholomew, thoroughly Revised, Corrected, and greatly added to by Frederick Rogers, Architect. Second Edition, Revised, with Additions. With numerous Illustrations, medium 8vo, 15s. cloth. “ The collection of specifications prepared by Mr. Rogers on the basis of Bartholomew’s work Is too well known to need any recommendation from us. It is one of the books with which every young architect must be equipped ; for time has shown that the specifications cannot be set aside through any defect in them.”—Architect. “ Good forms for specifications are of considerable value, and it was an excellent Idea to com- pile a work on the subject upon the basis of the late Alfred Bartholomew’s valuable work. The second edition of Mr. Rogers’s book is evidence of the want of a book dealing with modem re- quirements and materials.”—Building News. Building ; Civil and Ecclesiastical. A BOOK ON BUILDING, Civil and Ecclesiastical, including Church Restoration ; with the Theory of Domes and the Great Pyramid, &c. By Sir Edmund Beckett, Bart., LL.D., F.R.A.S., Author of “Clock sand Watches, and Bells,” &c. Second Edition, Enlarged. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. cloth. “A book which is always amusing and nearly always instructive. The style throughout is in the highest degree condensed and epigrammatic.”—Times.ib CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. Geometry for the Architect, Engineer, etc, PRACTICAL GEOMETRY, /or the Architect, Engineer and Mechanic. Giving Rules for the Delineation and Application ol various Geometrical Lines, Figures and Curves. By E. W. Tarn, M.A., Architect, Author of “The Science of Building,” &c. Second Edition. With Appen- dices on Diagrams of Strains and Isometrical Projection. With 172 Illus- trations, demy 8vo, 9s. cloth. " No book with the same objects in view has ever been published in which the clearness of the rules laid down and the illustrative diagrams have been so satisfactory.’’—Scotsman. "This is a manual for the practical man, whether architect, engineer, or mechanic. . . .The object of the author being to avoid all abstruse formulae or complicated methods, and to enable persons with but a moderate knowledge of geometry to work out the problems required.”—English Mechanic. The Science of Geometry, THE GEOMETRY OF COMPASSES; or, Problems Resolved by the mere Description of Circles, and the use of Coloured Diagrams and Symbols. By Oliver Byrne. Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ The treatise is a good one, and remarkable—like all Mr. Byrne’s contributions to the science of geometry—for the lucid character of its teaching."—Building News. DECORATIVE ARTS, etc. Woods and 3Iarbles (Imitation of), SCHOOL OF PAINTING FOR THE IMITATION OF WOODS AND MARBLES, as Taught and Practised by A. R. Van der Burg and P. Van der Burg, Directors of the Rotterdam Painting Institution. Royal folio, 185 by i2^ in., Illustrated with 24 full-size Coloured Plates; also 12 plain Plates, comprising 154 Figures. Second and Cheaper Edition. Price £1 11s. 6d. List of Plates. 1. Various Tools required for Wood Painting —2, 3. Walnut: Preliminary Stages of Graining and Finished Specimen — 4. Tools used for Marble Painting and Method of Manipulation— 5, 6. St. Remi Marble: Earlier Operations and finished Specimen—7. Methods of Sketching different Grains, Knots, &c.—8, 9. Ash: Pre- liminary Stages and Finished Specimen —10. Methods of Sketching Marble Grains—n, 12. Breche Marble: Preliminary Stages of Working and Finished Specimen—13. Maple: Methods of Producing the different Grains—14,15. Bird’s- eye Maple: Preliminary Stages and Finished Specimen—16. Methods of Sketching the dif- ferent Species of White Marble—17, 18. White Marble: Preliminary Stages of Process and *** Opinions Finished Specimen—ig. Mahogany: Specimens of various Grains and Methods of Manipulation —20, 21. Mahogany: Earlier Stages and Finished Specimen—22,23, 24- Sienna Marble: Varieties of Grain, Preliminary Stages and Finished Specimen—25, 26, 27. Juniper Wood: Methods of producing Grain. &c.: Preliminary Stages and Finished Specimen—28, 29, 30. Vert de Mer Marble: Varieties of Grain and Methods of Working Unfinished and Finished Speci- mens—31. 32. 33. Oak : Varieties of Grain, Tools Employed, and Methods of Manipulation, Pre- liminary Stages and Finished Specimen—34, 35, 36. Waulsort Marbie: Varieties of Grain, Un- finished and Finished Specimens. f the Press. “ Those who desire to attain skill in the art of painting woods and marbles will find advantage In consulting this book. . . . Some of the Working Men’s Clubs should give their young men the opportunity to study it ."—Builder. “ A comprehensive guide to the art. The explanations of the processes, the manipulation and management of the colours, and the beautifully executed plates will not be the least valuable to the student who aims at making his work a faithful transcript of nature.”—Building News. " Students and novices are fortunate who are able to become the possessors of so noble a •work."—A rchitect. House Decoration, ELEMENTARY DECORATION. A Guide to the Simpler Forms of Everyday Art, as applied to the Interior and Exterior Decoration of Dwelling Houses, &c. By James W. Facey, Jun. With 68 Cuts. i2mo, 2s. cloth limp. "Asa technical guide-book to the decorative painter it will be found reliable.”—Building News. PRACTICAL HOUSE DECORATION : A Guide to the Art of Ornamental Painting, the Arrangement of Colours in Apartments, and the principles of Decorative Design. With some Remarks upon the Nature and Properties of Pigments. By James William Facey, Author of “ Elementary Decoration,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. N B.—The above Two Works together in One Vol., strongly half-bound, 5$.17 DECORATIVE ARTS, etc. Colour. A GRAMMAR OF COLOURING. Applied to Decorative Painting and the Arts. By George Field. New Edition, Revised, Enlarged, and adapted to the use of the Ornamental Painter and Designer. By Ellis A. Davidson. With New Coloured Diagrams and Engravings. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth boards. “The book is a most useful resume of the properties of pigments.”—Builder. House Faulting, Graining, etc. HOUSE PAINTING, GRAINING, MARBLING, AND SIGN WRITING, A Practical Manual of. By Ellis A. Davidson. Fifth Edition. With Coloured Plates and Wood Engravings. i2mo, 6s. cloth boards. “ A mass of information, of use to the amateur and of value to the practical man.”—English Mechanic. “ Simply invaluable to the youngster entering upon this particular calling, and highly service- able to the man who is practising it.”—Furniture Gazette. Decorators, Receipts for. THE DECORATOR'S ASSISTANT: A Modern Guide to De- corative Artists and Amateurs, Painters, Writers, Gilders, &c. Containing upwards of 600 Receipts, Rules and Instructions ; with a variety of Informa- tion for General Work connected with every Class of Interior and Exterior Decorations, &c. Third Edition, Revised. 152 pp., crown 8vo, is. in wrapper. “ Full of receipts of value to decorators, painters, gilders, &c. The book contains the gist of larger treatises on colour and technical processes. It would be difficult to meet with a work so full of varied information on the painter’s art.”—Building News. “ We recommend the work to all who, whether for pleasure or profit, require a guide to decora- tion.”—Plumber and Decorator. Moyr Smith on Interior Decoration. ORNAMENTAL INTERIORS, ANCIENT AND MODERN. By J. Moyr Smith. Super-royal 8vo, with 32 full-page Plates and numerous smaller Illustrations, handsomely bound in cloth, gilt top, price 18s. In “ Ornamental Interiors ” the designs of more than thirty artist- decorators and architects of high standing have been illustrated. The book may therefore fairly claim to give a good general view of the works of the modern school of decoration, besides giving characteristic examples of earlier decorative arrange- ments. “Ornamental Interiors” gives a short account of the styles of Interior Decoration as practised by the Ancients in Egypt, Greece, Assyria, Rome and Byzan- tium. This part is illustrated by characteristic designs. *** Opinions of the Press. “ The book is well illustrated and handsomely got up, and contains some true criticism and a good many good examples of decorative treatment.”—The Builder. “ Well fitted for the dilettante, amateur, and professional designer.”—Decoration. “ This is the most elaborate, and beautiful work on the artistic decoration of interiors that we have seen. . . . The scrolls, panels and other designs from the author's own pen are very beautiful and chaste ; but he takes care that the designs of other men shall figure even more than his own.”—Liverpool Albion. “ To all who take an interest in elaborate domestic ornament this handsome volume will be welcome.”—Graphic. “ Mr. Moyr Smith deserves the thanks of art workers for having placed within their reach a book that seems eminently adapted to afford, by example and precept, that guidance of which most craftsmen stand in need ."—Furniture Gazette. British and Foreign Marbles. MARBLE DECORATION and the Terminology of British and Foreign Marbles. A Handbook for Students. By George H. Blagrove, Author of “ Shoring and its Application,” &c. With 28 Illustrations. Crown Svo, 3s. 6d. cloth. ■' This most useful and much wanted handbook should be in the bands of every architect and builder.”—Building World. • ‘ It is an excellent manual for students, and interesting to artistic readers generally.”—Saturday Review. “ A carefully and usefully written eatise ; the work is essentially practical.”—Scotsman. Marble Working, etc. MARBLE AND MARBLE WORKERS: A Handbook for Architects, Artists, Masons and Students. By Arthur Lee, Author of “A Visit to Carrara," “ The Working of Marble,’’ &c. Small crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ A really valuable addition to the technical literature of archi ects and masons.”— BuildingCROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. i8 DELAMOTTE’S WORKS ON ILLUMINATION AND ALPHABETS. A PRIMER OF THE ART OF ILLUMINATION, for the Use of Beginners : with a Rudimentary Treatise on the Art, Practical Directions for its exercise, and Examples taken from Illuminated MSS., printed in Gold and Colours. By F. Delamoxte. New and Cheaper Edition. Small 4to, 6s. orna- mental boards. “ The examples of ancient MSS. recommended to the student, which, with much good sense, the author chooses from collections accessible to all, are selected with judgment and knowledge, as well as taste.”—Athenceum. ORNAMENTAL ALPHABETS, Ancient and Medieval, from the Eighth Century, with Numerals; including Gothic, Church-Text, large and small, German, Italian, Arabesque, Initials for Illumination, Monograms, Crosses, &c. &c., for the use of Architectural and Engineering Draughtsmen, Missal Painters, Masons, Decorative Painters, Lithographers, Engravers, Carvers, &c. &c. Collected and Engraved by F. Delamotte, and printed in Colours. New and Cheaper Edition. Royal 8vo, oblong, 2s. 6d. ornamental boards. “For those who Insert enamelled sentences round gilded chalices, who blazon shop legends over shop-doors, who letter church walls with pithy sentences from the Decalogue, this book will be use- ful.”—Athenceum. EXAMPLES OF MODERN ALPHABETS, Plain and Ornamental; including German, Old English, Saxon, Italic, Perspective, Greek, Hebrew, Court Hand, Engrossing, Tuscan, Riband, Gothic, Rustic, and Arabesque; with several Original Designs, and an Analysis of the Roman and Old English Alphabets, large and small, and Numerals, for the use of Draughtsmen, Sur- veyors, Masons, Decorative Painters, Lithographers, Engravers, Carvers, &c. Collected and Engraved by F. Delamotte, and printed in Colours. New and Cheaper Edition. Royal 8vo, oblong, 2s. 6d. ornamental boards. “There is comprised in it every possible shape into which the letters of the alphabet and numerals can be formed, and the talent which has been expended in the conception of the various plain and ornamental letters is wonderful.”—Standard. MEDIAEVAL ALPHABETS AND INITIALS FOR ILLUMI- NATORS. By G. Delamotte. Containing 21 Plates and Illuminated Title, printed in Gold and Colours. With an Introduction by J. Willis Brooks. Fourth and Cheaper Edition. Small 4to, 4s. ornamental boards. “ A volume in which the letters of the alphabet come forth glorified in gilding and all the colours of the prism interwoven and intertwined and intermingled.”—Sun. THE EMBROIDERER'S BOOK OF DESIGN. Containing Initials, Emblems, Cyphers, Monograms, Ornamental Borders, Ecclesiastical Devices, Mediaeval and Modern Alphabets, and National Emblems. Col- lected by F. Delamotte, and printed in Colours. Oblong royal 8vo, is. 6d. ornamental wrapper. "The book will be of great assistance to ladies and young children who are endowed with the art of plying the needle in this most ornamental and useful pretty wrork.”—East Anglian Times. Wood Carving, INSTRUCTIONS IN WOOD-CARVING, for Amateurs; with Hints on Design. By A Lady. With Ten large Plates, 2s. 6d. in emblematic wrapper. “ The handicraft of the wood-carver, so well as a book can impart it, may be learnt from ‘ A Lady’s ’ publication.”—Athenceum. “ The directions given are plain and easily understood.”—English Mechanic. Glass Fainting, GLASS STAINING AND THE ART OF PAINTING ON GLASS. From the German of Dr. Gessert and Emanuel Otto Fromberg. With an Appendix on The Art of Enamelling. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. etter Painting, THE ART OF LETTER PAINTING MADE EASY. By James Greig Badenoch. With 12 full-page Engravings of Examples, is. 6d. cloth limp. “The system is a simple one, but quite •rlginal, and well worth the careful attention of letter painters. It can be easily mastered and remembered.”—Building News.19 CARPENTRY, TIMBER, etc. CARPENTRY, TIMBER, etc. Tredgold’s Carpentry, Enlarged by Tarn. THE ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF CARPENTRY. A Treatise on the Pressure and Equilibrium of Timber Framing, the Resist- ance of Timber, and the Construction of Floors, Arches, Bridges, Roofs, Uniting Iron and Stone with Timber, &c. To which is added an Essay on the Nature and Properties of Timber, &c., with Descriptions of the kinds of Wood used in Building; also numerous Tables of the Scantlings of Tim- ber for different purposes, the Specific Gravities of Materials, &c. By Thomas Tredgold, C.E. With an Appendix of Specimens of Various Roofs of Iron and Stone, Illustrated. Seventh Edition, thoroughly revised and considerably enlarged by E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A., Author of “The Science of Build- ing,” &c. With 61 Plates, Portrait of the Author, and several Woodcuts. In one large vcl., 4*0, price £1 5s. cloth. "Ought to be in every architect’s and every builder’s library.”—Builder. “ A work whose monumental excellence must commend it wherever skilful carpentry is con- cerned. The author’s principles are rather confirmed than impaired by time. The additional plates are of great intrinsic value.”—Building- News. Woodworking Machinery. WOODWORKING MACHINERY : Its Rise, Progress, and Con- struction. With Hints on the Management of Saw Mills and the Economical Conversion of Timber. Illustrated with Examples ot Recent Designs by leading English, French, and American Engineers. By M. Powis Bale, A.M.Inst.C.E.jM.I.M.E. Large crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ Mr. Bale is evidently an expert on the subject and he has collected so much information that his book is all-sufficient for builders and others engaged in the conversion of timber ."—Architect. ‘‘The most comprehensive compendium of wood-working machinery we have seen. The author is a thorough master of his subject.”—Building News. “The appearance of this book at the present time will, we should think, give a considerable Impetus to the onward march of the machinist engaged in the designing and manufacture of wood-working machines. It should be in the office of every wood-working factory.”—English Mechanic. Saw Mills. SAW MILLS: Their Arrangement and Management, and the Economical Conversion of Timber. (A Companion Volume to “ Woodworking Machinery.”) By M. Powis Bale. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. cloth. “ The administration of a large sawing establishment is discussed, and the subject examined from a financial standpoint. Hence the size, shape, order, and disposition of saw-mills and the like are gone into in detail, and the course of the timber is traced from its reception to its delivery in its converted state. We could not desire a more complete or practical treatise.”— Builder. “ We highly recommend Mr. Bale’s work to the attention and perusal of all those who are en- gaged in the art of wood conversion, or who are about building or remodelling saw-mills on im- proved principles.”—Building News. Carpentering. THE CARPENTER'S NEW G UIDE ; or, Book of Lines for Car- penters ; comprising all the Elementary Principles essential for acquiring a knowledge of Carpentry. Founded on the late Peter Nicholson’s Standard Work. A New Edition, Revised by Arthur Ashpitel, F.S.A. Together with Practical Rules on Drawing, by George Pyne. With 74 Plates, 4to, £1 is. cloth. Handrailing, A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON HANDRAILING : Showing N ew and Simple Methods for Finding the Pitch of the Plank, Drawing the Moulds, Bevelling, Jointing-up, and Squaring the Wreath. By George Collings. Illustrated with Plates and Diagrams. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth limp. ‘‘Will be found of practical utility in the execution of this difficult branch of joinery.”—Builder. “ Almost every difficult phase of this somewhat intricate branch of joinery is elucidated by the aid of plates and explanatory letterpress.”—Furniture Gazette. Circular Work, CIRCULAR WORK IN CARPENTRY AND JOINERY: A Practical Treatise on Circular Work of Single and Double Curvature. By George Collings, Author of “ A Practical Treatise on Handrailing.” Illus- trated with numerous Diagrams. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. “ An excellent example of what a bbok of this kind should be. Cheap in price, clear in defini- tion and practical in the examples selected.”— Btiilder.20 CROSBY LOCKWOOD &■ SON’S CATALOGUE. Timber Merchant’s Companion. THE TIMBER MERCHANTS AND BUILDER’S COM- PANION. Containing New and Copious Tables of the Reduced Weight and Measurement of Deals and Battens, of all sizes, from One to a Thousand Pieces, and the relative Price that each size bears per Lineal Foot to any given Price per Petersburg Standard Hundred; the Price per Cube Foot of Square Timber to any given Price per Load of 50 Feet; the proportionate Value of Deals and Battens by the Standard, to Square Timber by the Load of 50 Feet; the readiest mode of ascertaining the Price of Scantling per Lineal Foot of any size, to any given Figure per Cube Foot, &c. &c. By William Dowsing. Fourth Edition, Revised and Corrected. Cr. 8vo, 3s. cl. “ Everything is as concise and clear as it can possibly be made. There can be no doubt that every timber merchant and builder ought to possess it.”—Hull Advertiser. “ We are glad to see a fourtn edition of these admirable tables, which for correctness and simplicity of arrangement leave nothing to be desired.”— Timber Trades Journal. “ An exceedingly well-arranged, clear, and concise manual of tables for the use of all who buy or sell timber.”—Journal 0/ Forestry. Practical Timber Merchant. THE PRACTICAL TIMBER MERCHANT. Being a Guide for the use of Building Contractors, Surveyors, Builders, &c., comprising useful Tables for all purposes connected with the Timber Trade, Marks of Wood, Essay on the Strength of Timber, Remarks on the Growth of Timber, &c. By W. Richardson. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “Contains much valuable information for the use of timber merchants,builders, foresters, and all others connected with the growth, sale, and manufacture of timber .'—Journal of Forestry. Timber Freight Booh. THE TIMBER MERCHANTS. SAW MILLER'S, AND IMPORTER’S FREIGHT BOOK AND ASSISTANT. Comprising Rules, Tables, and Memoranda relating to the Timber Trade. By William Richardson, Timber Broker; together with a Chapter on “Speeds of Saw Mill Machinery,” by M. Powis Bale, M.I.M.E., &c. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cl. boards. “ A very useful manual of rules, tables, and memoranda relating to the timber trade. We re- commend it as a compendium of calculation to all timber measurers and merchants, and as supply- ing a real want in the trade.”—Building Nevus. Backing-Case Makers, Tables for. PACKING-CASE TABLES; showing the number of Super- ficial Feet in Boxes or Packing-Cases, from six inches square and upwards. By W. Richardson, Timber Broker. Second Edition. Oblong 4to, 3s. 6d. cl. “ Invaluable labour-saving tables.”—Ironmonger. "Will save much labour and calculation.”—Grocer. Superficial Measurement. THE TRADESMAN’S GUIDE TO SUPERFICIAL MEA- SUREMENT. Tables calculated from 1 to 200 inches in length, by 1 to 108 inches in breadth. For the use of Architects, Surveyors, Engineers, Timber Merchants, Builders* &c. By James Hawkings. Third Edition. Fcap., 5s. 6d. cloth. “ A useful collection of tables to facilitate rapid calculation of surfaces. The exact area of any Surface of which the limits have been ascertained can be instantly determined. The book will be found of the greatest utility to all engaged in building operations.”—Scotsman. “ These tables will be found of great assistance to all who require to make calculations in super- ficial measurement.”—English Mechanic. Forestry. THE ELEMENTS OF FORESTRY. Designed to afford In- formation concerning the Planting and Care of Forest Trees for Ornament or Profit, with Suggestions upon the Creation and Care of Woodlands. By F. B. Hough. Large crown 8vo, 10s. cloth. Timber Importer’s Guide. THE TIMBER IMPORTER’S, TIMBER MERCHANT’S AND BUILDER'S STANDARD GUIDE. By Richard E. Grandy. Compris- ing an Analysis of Deal Standards, Home and Foreign with Comparative Values and Tabular Arrangements for fixing Nett Landed Cost on Baltic and North American Deals, including all intermediate Expenses, Freight, Insurance, &c. &c. Together with copious Information for the Retailer and Builder. Third Edition, Revised. i2mo, 2s. cloth limp. •* Everything it pretends to be : built up gradually, it leads one from a forest to a treenail, and throws in, as a makeweight, a host of material concerning bricks, columns, cisterns. See."—English Mechanic.21 NAVAL ARCHITECTURE, NAVIGATION, etc. MARINE ENGINEERING, NAVIGATION, etc. Chain Cables. - — CHAIN CABLES AND CHAINS. Comprising Sizes and Curves of Links, Studs, &c., Iron for Cables and Chains, Chain Cable and Chain Making, Forming and Welding Links, Strength of Cables and Chains, Certificates for Cables, Marking Cables, Prices of Chain Cables and Chains, Historical Notes, Acts of Parliament, Statutory Tests, Charges for Testing, List of Manufacturers of Cables, &c. &c. By Thomas W. Traill, F.E.R.N., M. Inst. C.E., Engineer Surveyor in Chief, Board of Trade, Inspector of Chain Cable and Anchor Proving Establishments, and General Superin- tendent, Lloyd’s Committee on Proving Establishments. With numerous Tables, Illustrations ana Lithographic Drawings. Folio, £2 2s. cloth. “It contains a vast amount of vain ; ole information. Nothing seems to be wanting to make it a complete and standard work of reference on the subject.”—Nautical Magazine. Marine Engineering. MARINE ENGINES AND STEAM VESSELS (A Treatise on). By Robert Murray, C.E. Eighth Edition, thoroughly Revised, with considerable Additions by the Author and by George Carlisle, C.E., Senior Surveyor to the Board of Trade at Liverpool. i2mo, 5s, cloth boards. “Well adapted to give th* young steamship engineer or marine engine and boiler maker a general introduction into his practical work.”—Mechanical World. _ “ We feel sure that this thoroughly revised edition will continue to be as popular in the future as it has been in the past, as for its.size, it contains more useful information than any similar treatise. ’ ’ —Industries. “ The information given is both sound and sensible, and well qualified to direct young sea. going hands on the straight road to the extra chief’s certificate.”—Glasgow Herald. “An indispensable manual for the student of marine engineering.”—Liverpool Mercury. Pocket-Book for Naval Architects and Shipbuilders. THE NAVAL ARCHITECT'S AND SHIPBUILDER’S POCKET-BOOK of Formula, Rules, and Tables,and MARINE ENGINEER'S AND SURVEYOR’S Handy Book of Reference. By Clement Mackrow, Member of the Institution of Naval Architects, Naval Draughtsman. Third Edition, Revised. With numerous Diagrams, &c. Fcap., 12s. 6d. leather. “ Should be used by all who are engaged in the construction or design of vessels. . . . Will be found to contain the most useful tables and formulae required by shipbuilders, carefully collected from the best authorities, and put together in a popular and simple form.”—Engineer. “ The professional shipbuilder has now, in a convenient and accessible form, reliable data for solving many of the numerous problems that present themselves in the course of his work.”—Iran. “There is scarcely a subject on which a naval architect or shipbuilder can require to refresh his memory which wil lnot be found within the covers of Mr. Mackrow’s book.”—English Mechanic. Pocket-Book for Marine Engineers. A POCKET-BOOK OF USEFUL TABLES AND FOR- MU LAE FOR MARINE ENGINEERS. By Frank Proctor, A.I.N.A. Third Edition. Royal 32mo, leather, gilt edges, with strap, 4s. “We recommend it to our readers as going far to supply a long-felt want.”—Naval Science. “A most useful companion to all marine engineers.”— United Service Gazette. Introduction to Marine Engineering. ELEMENTARY ENGINEERING : A Manual for Young Marine Engineers and Apprentices. In the Form of Questions and Answers on Metals, Alloys, Strength of Materials, Construction and Management of Marine Engines, &c. &c. With an Appendix of Useful Tables. By J. S. Brewer, Government Marine Surveyor, Hongkong. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. f lust published. “ Contains much valuable information for the class for whom it is intended, especially in the chapters on the management of boilers and eng'nes.”—Nautical Magazine. “ A useful introduction to the more elaborate text books.”—Scotsman. “ To a student who has the requisite desire and resolve to attain a thorough knowledge, Mr. Brewer offers decidedly useful help.”—Athcnceum. Navigation. PRACTICAL NAVIGATION. Consisting of The Sailor’s Sea-Book, by James Greenwood and W. H. Rosser ; together with the requisite Mathematical and Nautical Tables for the Working of the Problems. By Henry Law, C.E., and Professor J. R. Young. Illustrated, umo, 7s. strongly half-bound.22 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. MINING AND MINING INDUSTRIES. Metalliferous Mining, BRITISH MINING : A Treatise on the History .Discovery, Practical Development, and Future Prospects of Metalliferous Mines in the United King- dom. By Robert Hunt, F.R.S., Keeper of Mining Records; Editor of “ Ure’s Dictionary of Arts, Manufactures, and Mines,” &c. Upwards of 950 pp., with 230 Illustrations. Second Edition, Revised. Super-royal 8vo, £2 2s. cloth. “ One of the most valuable works of reference of modern times. Mr. Hunt, as keeper of mining records of the United Kingdom, has had opportunities for such a task not enjoyed by anyone else, and has evidently made the most of them. . . . The language and style adopted are good, and the treatment of the various subjects laborious, conscientious, and scientific.”—Engineering-. “The book is, in fact, a treasure-house of statistical information on mining subjects, and we know of no other work embodying so great a mass of matter of this kind. Were this the only merit of Mr. Hunts volume, it would be sufficient to render it indispensable in the library of everyone interested in the development of the mining and metallurgical industries of the country.” —A thenceum. "A mass of information not elsewhere available, and of the greatest value to those who may be interested in our great mineral industries.”—Engineer. “ A sound, business-like collection of interesting facts. . . . The amount of information Mr. Hunt has brought together is enormous. . . . The volume appears likely to convey more instruction upon the subject than any work hitherto published.”—Mining Journal. “The work will be for the mining industry what Dr. Percy’s celebrated treatise has been for the metallurgical—a book that cannot with advantage be omitted from the library.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. “ The volume is massive and exhaustive, and the high intellectual powers and patient, persist- ent application which characterise the author have evidently been brought into play in its produc- tion. Its contents are invaluable.”—Colliery Guardian. Coal and Iron, THE COAL AND IRON INDUSTRIES OF THE UNITED KINGDOM. Comprising a Description of the Coal Fields, with Returns ot their Produce and its Distribution, and Analyses of Special Varieties. Also an Account of the occurrence of Iron Ores in Veins or Seams; Analyses of each Variety; and a History of the Rise and Progress of Pig Iron Manufacture since the year 1740. By Richard Meade, Assistant Keeper of Mining Records. With Maps of the Coal Fields and Ironstone Deposits of the United Kingdom, 8vo, £1 8s. cloth. "The book is one which must find a place on the shelves of all interested in coal and iron production, and in the iron, steel, and other metallurgical industries.”—Engineer. “ Of this book we may unreservedly say that it is the best of its class which we have ever met. ... A book of reference which no one engaged in the iron or coal trades should omit from his library.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. “An exhaustive treatise and a valuable work of reference.”—Mining Journal. Prospecting for Gold and other Metals, THE PROSPECTOR’S HANDBOOK: A Guide for the Pro- spector and Traveller in Search of Metal-Bearing or other Valuable Minerals. By J. W. Anderson, M.A. (Camb.), F.R.G.S., Author of “Fiji and New Caledonia.” Fourth Edition, thoroughly Revised and Enlarged. Small crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. "Will supply a much felt want, especially among Colonists, in whose way are so often thrown many mineralogical specimens the value of which it is difficult for anyone, not a specialist, to determine. The author has placed his instructions before his readers in the plainest possible terms, and his book is the best of its kind.”—Engineer. “Howto find commercial minerals, and how to identify them when they are found, are the eading points to which attention is directed. The author has managed to pack as much practical detail into his pages as would supply material for a book three times its size."—Mining Journal. " Those toilers who explore the trodden or untrodden tracks on the face of the globe will find much that is useful to them in this book.”—Athenceum. Mining Notes and Formulce, NOTES AND FORMULAE FOR MINING STUDENTS. By John Herman Merivale, M.A., Certificated Colliery Manager, Professor of Mining in the Durham College of Science, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Second Edition, carefully Revised. Small crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. “ Invaluable to anyone who is working up for an examination on mining subjects.”—Coal and Iroti Trades Review. “ The author has done his work in an exceedingly creditable manner, and has produced a book that will be of service to students, and those who are practically engaged in mining operations.”— Engineer " A vast amount of technical matter of the utmost value to mining engineers, and of consider- able interest to students.”—Schoolmaster.23 MINING AND MINING INDUSTRIES. Gold, Metallurgy of, THE METALLURGY OF GOLD: A Practical Treatise on the Metallurgical Treatment of Gold-bearing Ores. Including the Processes of Concentration and Chlorination, and the Assaying, Melting and Refining of Gold, By M. Eissler, Mining Engineer and Metallurgical Chemist, formerly Assistant Assayer of the U. S. Mint, San Francisco. Second Edition, Revised and much Enlarged. With 132 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 9s. cloth. [Just published. “ This book thoroughly deserves its title of a ‘ Practical Treatise.’ The whole process of gold milling, from the breaking of the quartz to the assay of the bullion, is described in clear and orderly narrative and with much, but not too much, fulness of detail.’’—Saturday Revie7u. “ The work is a storehouse of information and valuable data, and we strongly recommend it to all professional men engaged in the gold-mining industry.”—Mining Journal. “ Anyone who wishes to have an intelligent acquaintance with the characteristics of gold and gold ores, the methods of extracting the metal, concentrating and chlorinating it, and further on of refining and assaying it, will find all he wants in Mr. Eissler’s book.”—Financial News. Silver, Metallurgy of. THE METALLURGY OF SILVER : A Practical Treatise on the Amalgamation, Roasting and Lixiviation of Silver Ores. Including the Assaying, Melting and Refining of Silver Bullion. By M. Eissler, Author of “The Metallurgy of Gold ’’ With 124 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 10s. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ A practical treatise, and a technical work which we are convinced will supply a long felt want amongst practical men, and at the same time be of value to students and others indirectly connected with the industries.”—Mining Journal. “ From first to last the book is thoroughly sound and reliable.”—Colliery Guardian. “ For chemists, practical miners, assayers and investors alike, we do not know of any work on the subject so handy and yet so comprehensive.”— Glasgow Herald. Mineral Surveying and Valuing. THE MINERAL SURVEYOR AND VALUER'S COMPLETE GUIDE, comprising a Treatise on Improved Mining Surveying and the Valua- tion of Mining Properties, with New Traverse Tables. By Wm. Lintern, Mining and Civil Engineer. Third Edition, with an Appendix on “ Magnetic and Angular Surveying,’’ With Four Plates. i2mo, 4s. cloth. “ An enormous fund of information of great value.”—Mining Journal. “ Mr. Lintern’s book forms a valuable and thoroughly trustworthy guide.”—Iron and Coal Trades Review. “ This new edition must be of the highest value to colliery surveyors, proprietors and mana- gers.”—CoAh'ery Guardian. Metalliferous Minerals and Mining. TREATISE ON METALLIFEROUS MINERALS AND MINING. By D. C. Davies, F.G.S., Mining Engineer, &c., Author of “A Treatise on Slate and Slate Quarrying.” Illustrated with numerous Wood Engravings. Fourth Edition, carefully Revised. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “Neither the practical miner nor the general reader interested in mines can have a better book or his companion and his guide.”—Mining Journal. “The volume is one which no student of mineralogy should be without.”—Colliery Guardian, “ A book that will not only be useful to the geologist, the practical miner, and the metallurgist, but also very interesting to the general public.”—Iron. “ As a history of the present state of mining throughout the world this book has a real v?lu e, and it supplies an actual want, for no such information has hitherto been brought together within such limited space."—Athenceum. Earthy Minerals and Mining. TREATISE ON EARTHY AND OTHER MINERALS AND MINING. By D. C. Davies, F.G.S. Uniform with, and forming a Com- panion Volume to, the same Author’s “ Metalliferous Minerals and Mining.” With 76 Wood Engravings. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “ It is essentially a practical work, intended primarily for the use of practical men. ... We do not remember to have met with any English work on mining matters that contains the same amount of information packed in equally convenient form.”—Academy. “ The book is clearly the result of many years’ careful work and thought, and we should be inclined to rank it as among the very best of the handy technical and trades manuals which have recently appeared.”—British Quarterly Review. “ The volume contains a great mass of practical information carefully methodised and pre- sented in a very intelligible shape.”—Scotsman. “The subject matter of the volume will be found of high value by all—and they are a numer- ous class—who trade in earthy minerals.”—A thence um.24 CROSBY LOCKWOOD &> SON'S CATALOGUE. Underground Pumping Machinery. MINE DRAINAGE. Being a Complete and Practical Treatise on Direct-Acting Underground Steam Pumping Machinery, with a Descrip- tion of a large number of the best known Engines, their General Utility and the Special Sphere of their Action, the Mode of their Application, and their merits compared with other forms of Pumping Machinery. By Stephen Michell. 8vo, 15s. cloth. “ tVill be highly esteemed by colliery owners and lessees, mining engineers, and students generally who require to be acquainted with the best means of securing the drainage of mines. , It is a most valuable work, and stands almost alone in the literature of steam pumping machinery.”— Colliery Guardian. “ Much valuable information is given, so that the book is thoroughly worthy of an extensive circulation amongst practical men and purchasers of machinery. ’—Mining Journal. Mining Tools. A MANUAL OF MINING TOOLS. For the Use of Mine Managers, Agents, Students, &c. By William Morgans, Lecturer on Prac- tical Mining at the Bristol School of Mines. i2mo, 2s. 6d. cloth limp. ATLAS OF ENGRAVINGS to Illustrate the above, contain- ing 235 Illustrations of Mining Tools, drawn to scale. 4to, 4s. 6d. cloth. “ Students in the science of mining, and overmen, captains, managers, and viewers may gain r r-cticai knowledge and useful hints by the study of Mr. Morgans’ manual.”—Colliery Guardian. “A valuable work, which will tend materially to improve our mining literature.”—Mining Journal. Coal Mining. COAL AND COAL MINING: A Rudimentary Treatise on. By Sir Warington W. Smvth, M.A., F.R.S., &c., Chief Inspector of the Mines of the Crown. New Edition, Revised and Corrected. With numerous Illus- trations. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. “ As an outline is given of every known coal-field in this and other countries, as well as of the principal methods of working, the book will doubtless interest a very large number of readers.”— Mining Journal. Granite Quarrying. GRANITES AND OUR GRANITE INDUSTRIES. By George F. Harris, F.G.S., Membre de la Societe Beige de Geologte, Lec- turer on Economic Geology at the Birkbeck Institution, &c. With Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ A clearly and well-wri.ten manual for persons engaged or interested in the granite industry." —Scotsman. “ An interesting work, whi:h will be deservedly esteemed. We advise the author to write agui 1.”—Colliery Guardian. “ An exceedingly interesting and valuable monograph, on a subject which has hitherto received unaccountably little attention in the shape of systematic literary treatment.”—Sc ottish Leader. NATURAL AND APPLIED SCIENCE. Text Book of Electricity. THE STUDENT’S TEXT-BOOK OF ELECTRICITY. By Henry M. Noad, Ph.D., F.R.S., F.C.S. New Edition, carefully Revised. With an Introduction and Additional Chapters, by W. H. Preece, M.I.C.E., Vice-President of the Society of Telegraph Engineers, &c. With 470 Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “The original plan of this book has been carefully adhered to so as to make it a reflex of the existing state of electrical science, adapted for students. . . . Discovery seems to have pro- gressed with marvellous strides ; nevertheless it has now apparently ceased, and practical applica- tions have commenced their career; and it is to give a faithful account of these that this fresh edition of Dr. Noad’s valuable text-book is launched forth.”—Extract from Introduction by IV. H. Preece. Esq. _ “ AVe can recommend Dr. Noad’s book for clear style, great range of subject, a good index and a plethora of woodcuts. Such collections as the present are indispensable.”—Athenceum. “An admirable text book for every stude t — beginner or advanced — of electricity.”— Engineering. Electricity. A MANUAL OF ELECTRICITY: Including Galvanism, Mag- netism, Dia-Magnetism, Electro-Dynamics, Magno-Electricity, and the Electric Telegraph. By Henry M. Noad, Ph.D., F.R.S., F.C.S. Fourth Edition. With 500 Woodcuts. 8vo, £1 4s. cloth. “It is worthy of a place in the library of every public institution.”—Mining Journal.2 5 NATURAL AND APPLIED SCIENCE. Electric Eight. ELECTRIC LIGHT : Its Production and Use. Embodying Plain Directions for the Treatment of Voltaic Batteries, Electric Lamps, and Dynamo-Electric Machines. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E., Author of “ Electro- plating : A Practical Handbook.” Edited by F. C. Webb, M.I.C.E., M.S.T.E. Second Edition, Revised, with large Additions and 128 Illusts. 7s. 6d. cloth. “ The book is by far the best that we have yet met with on the subject.”—Athenceum. “It is the only work at present available which gives, in language intelligible for the most part to the ordinary reader, a general but concise history of the means which have been adopted up to the present time in producing the electric light.”—Metropolitan. ‘ ‘ The book contains a general account of the means adopted in producing the electric light, not only as obtained from voltaic or galvanic batteries, but treats at length of the dynamo-electric machine in several of its forms.”—Colliery Guardian. Electric lighting. THE ELEMENTARY PRINCIPLES OF ELECTRIC LIGHT- ING. By Alan A. Campbell Swinton, Associate I.E.E. Second Edition,, Enlarged and Revised. With 16 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. cloth. “Anyone who desires a short and thoroughly clear exposition of the elementary principles of electric-lighting cannot do better than read this little work.—Bradford Observer. Dr, Lardner’s School Handbooks. NATURAL PHILOSOPHY FOR SCHOOLS. By Dr. Lardner. 328 Illustrations. Sixth Edition. One Vol., 3s. 6d. cloth. “ A very convenient class-book for junior students in private schools. It is intended to convey, in clear and precise terms, general notions of all the principal divisions of Physical Science.”— British Quarterly Review. ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY FOR SCHOOLS. By Dr. Lardner. With 190 Illustrations. Second Edition. One Vol., 3s. 6d. cloth. “ Clearly written, well arranged, and excellently illustrated.”—Gardener's Chronicle. l>r. Lardner’s Electric Telegraph. THE ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH. By Dr. Lardner. Re- vised and Re-written by E. B. Bright, F.R.A.S. 140 Illustrations. Small 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ One of the most readable books extant on the Electric TelegraphT—English Mechanic. Astronomy. ASTRONOMY. By the late Rev. Robert Main, M.A., F.R.S., formerly Radcliffe Observer at Oxford. Third Edition, Revised and Cor- rected to the present time, by William Thynne Lynn, B.A., F.R.A.S., formerly of the Royal Observatory, Greenwich. i2mo, 2s. cloth limp. “A sound and simple treatise, very carefully edited, and a capital book for beginners."— Knowledge. \tional Times. “Accurately brought down to the requirements of the present time by Mr. Lynn.”—Educa- The Blowpipe. THE BLOWPIPE IN CHEMISTRY, MINERALOGY, AND GEOLOGY. Containing all known Methods of Anhydrous Analysis, many Working Examples, and Instructions for Making Apparatus. By Lieut.- Colonel W. A. Ross, R.A., F.G.S. With 120 Illustrations. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. YJust published. “The student who goes conscientiously through the course of experimentation here laid down will gain a better insight into inorganic chemistry and mineralogy than if he had 'got up’ any of the best text-books ot the day, and passed any number of examinations in their contents.”—Chemi- cal News. The Military Sciences. AIDE-MEMOIRE TO THE MILITARY SCIENCES. Framed from Contributions of Officers and others connected with the different Ser- vices. Originally edited by a Committee of the Corps of Royal Engineers. Second Edition, |most carefully Revised by an Officer ofjthe Corps, with many Additions; containing nearly 350 Engravings and many hundred Woodcuts. Three Vols., royal 8vo, extra cloth boards, and lettered, £4 10s. “A compendious encyclopaedia of military knowledge, to which we are greatly indebted.”— Edinburgh Review. “ The most comprehensive book of reference to the military and collateral sciences.”— Volunteer Service Gazette. Field Fortification. A TREATISE ON FIELD FORTIFICATION, THE ATTACK OF FORTRESSES, MILITARY MINING, AND RECONNOITRING. By Colonel I. S. Macaulay, late Professor of Fortification in the R.M.A., Wool- wich. Sixth Edition, crown 8vo, cloth, with separate Atlas of 12 Plates, 12s.26 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. Temp er aments. OUR TEMPERAMENTS, THEIR STUDY AND THEIR TEACHING. A Popular Outline. By Alexander Stewart, F.R.C.S. Edin. In one large 8vo volume, with 30 Illustrations,.including A Selection from Lodge’s “ Historical Portraits,” showing the Chief Forms of Faces. Price 15s. cloth, gilt top. “The book is exceedingly interesting, even for those who are not systematic students of an- thropology. . . . To those who think the proper study of mankind is man, it will be full of attrac- tion.”—Daily Telegraph. “ The author’s object is to enable a student to read a man’s temperament in his aspect. The work is well adapted to its end. It is worthy of the attention of students of human nature.”— Scotsman. “ The volume is heavy to hold, but light to read. Though the author has treated his subject exhaustively, he writes in a popular and pleasant manner that renders it attractive to the general reader.”—Punch. Antiseptic Nursing. ANTISEPTICS: A Handbook for Nurses. Being an Epitome of Antiseptic Treatment. With Notes on Antiseptic Substances, Disinfection, Monthly Nursing, &c. By Mrs. Annie Hewer, late Hospital Sister, Diplomee Obs. Soc. Lond. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ This excellent little work ... is very readable and contains much information. We can strongly recommend it to those who are undergoing training at the various hospitals, and also to those who are engaged in the practice of nursing, as they cannot fail to obtain practical hints from its perusal.”—Lancet. “ The student or the busy practitioner would do well to look through its pages, offering as they do a suggestive and faithful picture of antiseptic methods.”—Hospital Gazette. “A clear, concise, and excellent little handbook.”—The Hospital. Pneumatics and Acoustics. PNEUMATICS: including Acoustics and the Phenomena of Wind Currents, for the Use of Beginners. By Charles Tomlinson, F.R.S., F.C.S., &c. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth. “ Beginners in the study of this important application of science could not have a better manual." —.Scotsman. “ A valuable and suitable text-book for students of Acoustics and the Phenomena of Wind Currents.”—Schoolmaster. Conchology. A MANUAL OF THE MOLLUSCA : Being a Treatise on Recent and Fossil Shells. By S. P. Woodward, A.L.S., F.G.S., late Assistant Paleontologist in the British Museum. Fifth Edition. With an Appendix on Recent and Fossil Conchological Discoveries, by Ralph Tate, A.L.S., F.G.S. Illustrated by A. N. Waterhouse and Joseph Wilson Lowry. With 23 Plates and upwards of 300 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth boards. “ A most valuable storehouse of conchological and geological information."—Science Gossip. Geology. RUDIMENTARY TREATISE ON GEOLOGY, PHYSICAL AND HISTORICAL. Consisting of “Physical Geology," which sets forth the leading Principles of the Science; and “ Historical Geology,” which treats of the Mineral and Organic Conditions of the Earth at each successive epoch, especial reference being made to the British Series of Rocks. By Ralph Tate, A.L.S., F.G.S., &c., &c. With 250 Illustrations. i2mo, 5s. cloth boards. “ The fulness of the matter has elevated the book into a manual. Its information is exhaustive and well arranged.”—School Board Chronicle. Geology and Genesis. THE TWIN RECORDS OF CREATION; or, Geology and Genesis: their Perfect Harmony and Wonderful Concord. By George W. Victor le Vaux. Numerous Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ A valuable contribution to the evidences of Revelation, and disposes very conclusively of the arguments of those who would set God’s Works against God’s Word. No real difficulty is shirked, and no sophistry is left unexposed.”—The Rock. “ The remarkable peculiarity of this author is that he combines an unbounded admiration of science with an unbounded admiration of the Written record. The two impulses are balanced to a nicety ; and the consequence is that difficulties, which to minds less evenly poised would be seri- ous, find immediate solutions of the happiest kinds.”—London Review.NATURAL AND APPLIED SCIENCE. 27 DR. LARDNER’S HANDBOOKS OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. THE HANDBOOK OF MECHANICS. Enlarged and almost re- written by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S. With 378 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 6s. cloth. “The perspicuity of the original has been retained, and chapters which had become obsolete have been replaced by others of more modern character. The explanations throughout are studiously popular, and care has been taken to show the application of the various branches of physics to the industrial arts, and to the practical business of life.”—Mining Journal. “Mr. Loewy has carefully revised the book, and brought it up to modern requirements.”— Nature. “ Natural philosophy has had few exponents more able or better skilled in the art of popu- larising the subject than Dr. Lardner ; and Mr. Loewy is doing good service in fitting this treatise, and the others of the series, for use at the present time.”—Scotsman. THE HANDBOOK OF HYDROSTATICS AND PNEUMATICS. New Edition, Revised and Enlarged, by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S. With 236 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 5s. cloth. “For those ‘who desire to attain an accurate knowledge of physical science without the pro- found methods of mathematical investigation,’ this work is not merely intended, but well adapted.-’ —Chemical News. , “ The volume before us has been carefully edited, augmented to nearly twice the bulk of the former edition, and all the most recent matter has been added. . . . It is a valuable text-book.” —Nature. “ Candidates for pass examinations will find it, we think, specially suited to their requirements.' English Mechanic. THE HANDBOOK OF HEAT. Edited and almost entirely re- written by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S., &c. 117 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 6s. cloth. “The style is always clear and precise, and conveys instruction without leaving any cloudiness or lurking doubts behind.”—Engineering. “A most exhaustive book on the subject on which it treats, and is so arranged that it can be understood by all who desire to attain an accurate knowledge of physical science Mr. Loewy has included all the latest discoveries in the varied laws and effects of heat.”—Standard. “A complete and handy text-book for the use of students and general readers.”—English Mechanic. THE HANDBOOK OF OPTICS. By Dionysius Lardner,D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London. New Edition. Edited byT. Olver Harding, B.A. Lond., of University College, London. With 298 Illustrations. Small 8vo, 448 pages, 5s. cloth. “Written by one of the ablest English scientific writers, beautifully and elaborately illustrated. Mechanics Magazine. THE HANDBOOK OF ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND A CO USTICS. By Dr. Lardner. Ninth Thousand. Edit, by George Carey Foster, B.A., F.C.S. With 400 Illustrations. Small 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ The book could not have been entrusted to anyone better calculated to preserve the terse and lucid style of Lardner, while correcting his errors and bringing up his work to the present state of scientific knowledge.”—Popular Science Review. \* The above Five Volumes, though each is Complete in itself, form A Com- plete Course of Natural Philosophy. Dr. Lardner’s Handbook of Astronomy. THE HANDBOOK OF ASTRONOMY. Forming a Companion to the “ Handbook of Natural Philosophy.’’ By Dionysius Lardner, D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London. Fourth Edition. Revised and Edited by Edwin Dunkin, F.R.A.S., Royal Observatory, Greenwich. With 38 Plates and upwards of 100 Woodcuts. In One Vol., small 8vo, 550 pages, 9s. 6d. cloth. “ Probably no other book contains the same amount of information in so compendious and well- arranged a form—certainly none at the price at which this is offered to the public.”—Athenceum. “We can do no other than pronounce this work a most valuable manual of astronomy, and we strongly recommend it to all who wish to acquire a general—but at the same time correct—acquaint- ance with this sublime science.”—Quarterly Journal of Science. “One of the most deservedly popular books on the subject . . . We would recommend not only the student of the elementary principles of the science, but he who aims at mastering the higher and mathematical branches of astronomy, not to be without this work beside him.”—Practi- cal Magazine.26 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. Temperaments. OUR TEMPERAMENTS, THEIR STUDY AND THEIR TEACHING. A Popular Outline. By Alexander Stewart, F.R.C.S. Edin. In one large 8vo volume, with 30 Illustrations, including A Selection from Lodge’s “ Historical Portraits,” showing the Chief Forms of Faces. Price 15$. cloth, gilt top. “The book is exceedingly interesting, even for those who are not systematic students of an- thropology. . . . To those who think the proper study of mankind is man, it will be full of attrac- tion.”—Daily Telegraph. “The author’s object is to enable a student to read a man’s temperament in his aspect. The work is well adapted to its end. It is worthy of the attention of students of human nature.”— Scotsman. “ The volume is heavy to hold, but light to read. Though the author has treated his subject exhaustively, he writes in a popular and pleasant manner that renders it attractive to the general reader.”—Punch. Antiseptic Nursing. ANTISEPTICS: A Handbook for Nurses. Being an Epitome of Antiseptic Treatment. With Notes on Antiseptic Substances, Disinfection, Monthly Nursing, &c. By Mrs. Annie Hewer, late Hospital Sister, Diplomee Obs. Soc. Lond. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. cloth. [Just published. “ This excellent little work . . . is very readable and contains much information. We can strongly recommend it to those who are undergoing training at the various hospitals, and also to those who are engaged in the practice of nursing, as they cannot fail to obtain practical hints from its perusal.”—Lancet. “ The student or the busy practitioner would do well to look through its pages, offering as they do a suggestive and faithfui picture of antiseptic methods.”—Hospital Gazette. “A clear, concise, and excellent little handbook.”—The Hospital. Pneumatics and Acoustics. PNEUMATICS : including Acoustics and the Phenomena of Wind Currents, for the Use of Beginners. By Charles Tomlinson, F.R.S., F.C.S., &c. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations. i2mo, is. 6d. cloth. “ Beginners in the study of this important application of science could not have a better manual.” —.Scotsman. “A valuable and suitable text-book for students of Acoustics and the Phenomena of Wind Currents ."—Schoolmaster. Conchology, A MANUAL OF THE MOLLUSCA : Being a Treatise on Recent and Fossil Shells. By S. P. Woodward, A.L.S., F.G.S., late Assistant Palaeontologist in the British Museum. Fifth Edition. With an Appendix on Recent and Fossil Conchological Discoveries, by Ralph Tate, A.L.S., F.G.S. Illustrated by A. N. Waterhouse and Joseph Wilson Lowry. With 23 Plates and upwards of 300 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth boards. “ A most valuable storehouse of conchological and geological information.”—Science Gossip. Geology. RUDIMENTARY TREATISE ON GEOLOGY, PHYSICAL AND HISTORICAL. Consisting of “Physical Geology," which sets forth the leading Principles of the Science; and “ Historical Geology,” which treats of the Mineral and Organic Conditions of the Earth at each successive epoch, especial reference being made to the British Series of Rocks. By Ralph Tate, A.L.S., F.G.S., &c., &c. With 250 Illustrations. i2mo, 5s. cloth boards. “ The fulness of the matter has elevated the book into a manual. Its information is exhaustive and well arranged.”—School Board Chronicle. Geology and Genesis. THE TWIN RECORDS OF CREATION; or, Geology and Genesis: their Perfect Harmony and Wonderful Concord. By George W. Victor le Vaux. Numerous Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ A valuable contribution to the evidences of Revelation, and disposes very conclusively of the arguments of those who would set God’s Works against God’s Word. No real difficulty is shirked, and no sophistry is left unexposed.”—The Rock. “ The remarkable peculiarity of this author is that he combines an unbounded admiration of science with an unbounded admiration of the Written record. The two impulses are balanced to a nicety ; and the consequence is that difficulties, which to minds less evenly poised would be seri- ous, find immediate solutions of the happiest kinds.”—London Review.27 NATURAL AND APPLIED SCIENCE. DR. LARDNER’S HANDBOOKS OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. THE HANDBOOK OF MECHANICS. Enlarged and almost re- written by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S. With 378 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 6s. cloth. “The perspicuity of the original has been retained, and chapters which had become obsolete have been replaced by others of more modern character. The explanations throughout are studiously popular, and care has been taken to show the application of the various branches of physics to the industrial arts, and to the practical business of life.”—Mining Journal. “Mr. Loewy has carefully revised the book, and brought it up to modern requirements.”— Nature. “ Natural philosophy has had few exponents more able or better skilled in the art of popu- larising the subject than Dr. Lardner ; and Mr. Loewy is doing good service in fitting this treatise, and the others of the series, for use at the present time.”—Scotsman. THE HANDBOOK OF HYDROSTATICS AND PNEUMATICS. New Edition, Revised and Enlarged, by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S. With 236 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 5s. cloth. “For those ‘who desire to attain an accurate knowledge of physical science without the pro- found methods of mathematical investigation,’ this work is not merely intended, but well adapted.’' —Chemical News, , “ The volume before us has been carefully edited, augmented to nearly twice the bulk of the former edition, and all the most recent matter has been added. . . . It is a valuable text-book.” —Nature. “ Candidates for pass examinations will find it, we think, specially suited to their requirements.’ English Mechanic. THE HANDBOOK OF HEAT. Edited and almost entirely re- written by Benjamin Loewy, F.R.A.S., &c. 117 Illustrations. Post 8vo, 6s. cloth. “ The style Is always clear and precise, and conveys instruction without leaving any cloudiness or lurking doubts behind.”—Engineering. “A most exhaustive book on the subject on which it treats, and is so arranged that it can be understood by all who desire to attain an accurate knowledge of physical science Mr. Loewy has included all the latest discoveries in the varied laws and effects of heat.”—Standard. “A complete and handy text-book for the use of students and general readers.”—English Mechanic. THE HANDBOOK OF OPTICS. By Dionysius Lardner,D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London. New Edition. Edited by T. Olver Harding, B.A. Lond., of University College, London. With 298 Illustrations. Small 8vo, 448 pages, 5s. cloth. “Written by one of the ablest English scientific writers, beautifully and elaborately illustrated. Mechanics Magazine. THE HANDBOOK OF ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, AND ACOUSTICS. By Dr. Lardner. Ninth Thousand. Edit, by George Carey Foster, B.A., F.C.S. With 400 Illustrations. Small 8vo, 5s. cloth. _ “ The book could not have been entrusted to anyone better calculated to preserve the terse and lucid style of Lardner, while correcting his errors and bringing up his work to the present state of scientific knowledge.”—Popular Science Review. \* The above Five Volumes, though each is Complete in itself, form A Com- plete Course of Natural Philosophy. Dr. Lardner’s Handbook of Astronomy. THE HANDBOOK OF ASTRONOMY. Forming a Companion to the “ Handbook of Natural Philosophy.’’ By Dionysius Lardner, D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London. Fourth Edition. Revised and Edited by Edwin Dunkin, F.R.A.S., Royal Observatory, Greenwich. With 38 Plates and upwards of 100 Woodcuts. In One Vol., small 8vo, 550 pages, 9s. 6d. cloth. “ Probably no other book contains the same amount of information in so compendious and well- arranged a form—certainly none at the price at which this is offered to the public.”—Athenceum. “We can do no other than pronounce this work a most valuable manual of astronomy, and we strongly recommend it to all who wish to acquire a general—but at the same time correct—acquaint- ance with this sublime science.”—Quarterly Journal 0/ Science. “One of the most deservedly popular books on the subject . . . We would recommend not only the student of the elementary principles of the science, but he who aims at mastering the higher and mathematical branches of astronomy, not to be without this work beside him.”—Practi- cal Magazine,28 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. DR. LARDNER’S MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND ART. THE MUSEUM OF SCIENCE AND ART. Edited by Dionysius Lardner, D.C.L., formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University College, London. With upwards of 1,200 Engrav- ings on Wood. In 6 Double Volumes, £1 is., in a new and elegant cloth bind- ing ; or handsomely bound in half-morocco, 31s. 6d. Contents: The Planets: Are they Inhabited Worlds f— Weather Prognostics — Popular Fallacies in Questions of Physical Science—Latitudes and Longitudes — Lunar Influences — Meteoric Stones and Shooting Stars—Railway Accidents —Light—Common Things : Air—Locomotion in the United States—Cometary Influences— Common Things: Water—The Potter's Art— Common Things: Fire — Locomotion and Transport, their Influence and Progress—The Moon—Common Things: The Earth —The Electric Telegraph —Terrestrial Heat —The Sun—Earthquakes and Volcanoes—Barometer, Safety Lamp, and Whitworth’s Micrometric Apparatus—Steam—The Steam Engine—The Eye — The Atmosphere — Time — Common Things: Pumps—Common Things: Spectacles, the Kaleidoscope — Clocks and Watches — Microscopic Drawing and Engraving—Loco- *** Opinions 0 motive — Thermometer — New Planets: Le- verrier and Adams’s Planet—Magnitude and Minuteness—Common Things: The Almanack —Optical Images—How to observe the Heavens — Common Things : The Looking-glass — Stellar Universe—The Tidee-x-Colour—Com- mon Things: Man—Magnifying Glasses—In- stinct and Intelligence—The Solar Microscope —The Camera Lucida—The Magic Lantern— The Camera Obscura—The Microscope—The White Ants : Their Manners and Habits—The Surface of the Earth, or First Notions of Geography—Science and Poetry—The Bee- Steam Navigation — Electro-Motive Power — Thunder, Lightning, and the Aurora Borealis —The Printing Press—The Crust of the Earth —Comets—The Stereoscope—The Pre-Adam- ite Earth—Eclipses—Sound. f the Press, "This series, besides affording popular but sound instruction on scientific subjects, with which the humblest man in the country ought to be acquainted, also undertakes that teaching of ‘Com- mon Things ’ which every well-wisher of his kind is anxious to promote. Many thousand copies of this serviceable publication have been printed, in the belief and hope that the desire for instruction and improvement widely prevails ; and we have no fear that such enlightened faith will meet with disappointment.”—Times. “ A cheap and interesting publication, alike informing and attractive. The papers combine subjects of importance and great scientific knowledge, considerable inductive powers, and a popular style of treatment.”—Spectator. “The * Museum of Science and Art’ is the most valuable contribution that has ever been made to the Scientific Instruction of every class of society.”—Sir DAVID BREWSTER, in the North British Review. “ Whether we consider the liberality and beauty of the illustrations, the charm of the writing, or the durable interest of the matter, we must express our belief that there is hardly to be found among the new books one that would be welcomed by people of so many ages and classes as a valuable present.”—Examiner. *** Separate books formed from the above, suitable for Workmen's Libraries, Science Classes, etc. Common Things Explained. Containing Air, Earth, Fire, Water, Time, Man, the Eye, Locomotion, Colour, Clocks and Watches, &c. 233 Illus- trations, cloth gilt, 5$. The Microscope. Containing Optical Images, Magnifying Glasses, Origin and Description of the Microscope, Microscopic Objects, the Solar Micro- scope, Microscopic Drawing and Engraving, &c. 147 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 25. Popular Geology. Containing Earthquakes and Volcanoes, the Crust of the Earth, &c. 201 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Popular Physics. Containing Magnitude and Minuteness, the Atmo- sphere, Meteoric Stones, Popular Fallacies, Weather Prognostics, the Thermometer, the Barometer, Sound, &c. 85 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Steam and its Uses. Including the Steam Engine, the Locomotive, and Steam Navigation. 89 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s. Popxdar Astronomy. Containing How to observe the Heavens—The Earth, Sun, Moon, Planets, Light, Comets, Eclipses, Astronomical Influ- ences, &c. 182 Illustrations, 4s. 6d. The Bee and White Ants: Their Manners and Habits. With Illustra- tions of Animal Instinct and Intelligence. 135 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 2s. The Electric Telegraph Popularized. To render intelligible to all who can Read, ii respective of any previous Scientific Acquirements, the various forms of Telegraphy in Actual Operation. 100 Illustrations, cloth gilt, 15. 6d.COUNTING-HOUSE WORK, TABLES, CALCULATORS, etc. 29 COUNTING-HOUSE WORK, TABLES, etc. Accounts for Manufacturers, FACTORY ACCOUNTS: Their Principles and Practice. A Handbook for Accountants and Manufacturers, with Appendices on the No- menclature of Machine Details; the Income Tax Acts; the Rating of Fac- tories ; Fire and Boiler Insurance; the Factory and Workshop Acts, &c., including also a Glossary of Terms and a large number of Specimen Rulings. By Emile Garcke and J. M. Fells. Third Edition. Demy 8vo, 250 pages, price 6s. strongly bound. 1'Just published. “ A very interesting description of the requirements of Factory Accounts. . . . the principle ef assimilating the Factory Accounts to the general commercial books is one which we thoroughly agree with.”—Accountants' Journal. “ Characterised by extreme thoroughness. There are few owners of Factories who would not derive great benefit from the perused of this most admirable work.”—Local Government Chronicle. Foreign Commercial Correspondence, THE FOREIGN COMMERCIAL CORRESPONDENT: Being Aids to Commercial Correspondence in Five Languages—English, French, German, Italian and Spanish. By Conrad E. Baker. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. [Jms* published. "Whoever wishes to correspond in all the languages mentioned by Mr. Baker cannot do better than study this work, the materials of which are excellent and conveniently arranged. They con- sist not of entire specimen letters, but what are far mo-e useful—short passages, sentences, or phrases expressing the same general idea in various form*."—Athen<enm. ‘‘A careful examination has convinced us that it is unusually complete, well arranged and reliable. The book is a thoroughly good one.”—Schoolmaster. Intuitive Calculations, THE COMPENDIOUS CALCULATOR; or, Easy and Con- cise Methods of Performing the various Arithmetical Operations required in Commercial and Business Transactions, together with Useful Tables. By Daniel O'Gorman. Corrected and Extended by J. R. Young, formerly Professor of Mathematics at Belfast College, Twenty-seventh Edition, care- fully Revised by C. Norris. Fcap. 8vo,.3s. 6d. strongly half-bound in leather. “ It would be difficult to exaggerate the usefulness of a book like this to everyone engaged in commerce or manufacturing industry. It is crammed full of rules and formulae for shortening and employing calculations.”—Knowledge. “ Supplies special and rapid methods for all kinds of calculations. Of great utility to persons engaged in any kind of commercial transactions.”—Scotsman. Modern Metrical Units and Systems, MODERN METROLOGY: A Manual of the Metrical Units and Systems of the Present Century. With an Appendix containing a proposed English System. By Lowis D’A. Jackson, A. M. Inst. C.E., Author of “Aid to Survey Practice,” &c. Large crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “The author has brought together much valuable and interesting information. ... We cannot but recommend the work to the consideration of all interested in the practical reform of our weights and measures.”—Nature. “ For exhaustive tables of equivalent weights and measures of all sorts, and for clear demonstra- tions Of the effects of the various systems that have been proposed or adopted, Mr. Jackson’s treatise is without a rival.”—Academy. Hie Metric System and the British Standards. A SERIES OF METRIC TABLES, in which the British Stand- ard Measures and Weights are compared with those of the Metric System at present in Use on the Continent. By C. H. Dowling, C.E. 8vo, ios. 6d. strongly bound, “Their accuracy has been certified by Professor Airy, the Astronomer-Royal.”—Builder. "Mr. Dowling’s Tables are well put together as a ready-reckoner for the conversion of one system into the other.”—Atheneeum. Iron and Metal Trades9 Calculator, THE IRON AND METAL TRADES' COMPANION. For expeditiously ascertaining the Value of any Goods bought or sold by Weight, from is. per cwt. to 112s. per cwt., and from one farthing per pound to one shilling per pound. Each Table extends from one pound to 100 tons. To which are appended Rules on Decimals, Square and Cube Root, Mensuration of Superficies and Solids, &c.; Tables of Weights of Materials, and other Useful Memoranda. By Thos. Downie. 396 pp., 9s. Strongly bound in leather. “A most useful set of tables, and will supply a want, for nothing like them before existed."— Building News. “ Although specially adapted to the iron and metal trades, the tables will be found useful in every other business in which merchandise is bought and sold by weight.”—Railway News.30 CROSBY LOCKWOOD ^ SON’S CATALOGUE. Calculator for Numbers and Weights Combined. THE NUMBER AND WEIGHT CALCULATOR. Contain- ing upwards of 250,000 Separate Calculations, showing at a glance the value at 421 different rates, ranging from Jjth of a Penny to 20s. each, or per cwt., and £20 per ton, of any number of articles consecutively, from 1 to 470.— Any number of cwts., qrs., and lbs., from 1 cwt. to 470 cwts.—Any number ot tons, cwts., qrs., and lbs., from x to 23I tons. By William Chadwick, Public Accountant. Second Edition, Revised and Improved, and specially adapted for the Apportionment of Mileage Charges for Railway Traffic. 8vo, price 18s., strongly bound for Office wear and tear. [Just published. i-Ss" This comprehensive and entirely unique and original Calculator is adapted for the use of Accountants and Auditors, Railway Companies, Canal Companies, Shippers, Shipping Agents, General Carriers, etc. Ironfounders, Brassfounders, Metal Merchants, Iron Manufacturers, Ironmongers, Engineers, Machinists, Boiler Makers, Millwrights, Roofing, Bridge and Girder Makers, Colliery Proprietors, etc. Timber Merchants, Builders, Contractors, Architects, Surveyors, Auctioneers, Valuers, Brokers, Mill Owners and Manufacturers, Mill Furnishers, Merchants and General Wholesale Tradesmen. *** Opinions of the Press. The book contains the answers to questions, and not simply a set of ingenious puzzle methods of arriving at results. It is as easy of reference for any answer or any number of answers as a dictionary, and the references are even more quickly made. For making up accounts or esti- mates, the book must prove invaluable to all who have any considerable quantity of calculations involving price and measure in any combination to do.”—Engineer. “ The most complete and practical ready reckoner which it has been our fortune yet to see. It is difficult to imagine a trade or occupation in which it could not be of the greatest use, either in saving human labour or in checking work. The Publishers have placed within the reach of every commercial man an invaluable and unfailing assistant.”—The Miller. “ The most perfect work of the kind yet prepared.”—Glasgow Herald. Comprehensive Weight Calculator, THE WEIGHT CALCULATOR. Being a Series of Tables upon a New and Comprehensive Plan, exhibiting at One Reference the exact Value of any Weight from 1 lb. to 15 tons, at 300 Progressive Rates, from id. to 168s. per cwt., and containing 186,000 Direct Answers, which, with their Combinations, consisting of a single addition (mostly to be performed at sight), will afford an aggregate of 10,266,000 Answers; the whole being calcu- lated and designed to ensure correctness and promote despatch. By Henry Harben, Accountant. Fourth Edition, carefully Corrected. Royal Svo, strongly half-bound, £1 5s. “ A practical and useful work of reference for men of business generally ; it is the best of the kind we have seen.”—Ironmonger. “ Of priceless value to business men. It is a necessary book in all mercantile offices.”—Shef- field Independent. Comprehensive Discount Guide, THE DISCOUNT GUIDE. Comprising several Series of Tables for the use of Merchants, Manufacturers, Ironmongers, and others, by which may be ascertained the exact Profit arising from any mode of using Discounts, either in the Purchase or Sale of Goods, and the method of either Altering a Rate of Discount or Advancing a Price, so as to produce, by one operation, a sum that will realise any required profit after allowing one or more Discounts: to which are added Tables of Profit or Advance from i| to go per cent., Tables of Discount from ij to g8| per cent., and Tables of Com- mission, &c., from | to 10 per cent. By Henry Harben, Accountant, Author of “ The Weight Calculator.” New Edition, carefully Revised and Corrected. Demy 8vo, 544 pp. half-bound, £1 5s. “ A book such as this can only be appreciated by business men, to whom the saving of time means saving of money. We have the high authority of Professor J. R. Young that the tables throughout the work are constructed upon strictly accurate principles. The work is a model of typographical clearness, and must prove of great value to merchants, manufacturers, and general traders.”—British Trade Journal. Iron Shipbuilders’ and Merchants’ Weight Tables. IRON-PLATE WEIGHT TABLES: For Iron Shipbuilders, Engineers and Iron Merchants. Containing the Calculated Weights of up- wards of 150,000 different sizes of Iron Plates, from i foot by 6 in. by \ in. to io feet by 5 feet by 1 in. Worked out on the basis of 40 lbs. to the square foot of Iron of 1 inch in thickness. Carefully compiled and thoroughly Re- vised by H. Burlinson and W. H. Simpson. Oblong 4to, 25s. half-bound. “This work will be found of great utility. The authors have had much practical experience of what is wanting in making estimates; and the use of the book will save much time in making elaborate calculations. —English Mechanic.INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. 3i INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. Soap-making. THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING: A Practical Handbook of the Manufacture of Hard and Soft Soaps, Toilet Soaps, etc. Including many New Processes, and a Chapter on the Recovery of Glycerine from Waste Leys. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Electro-Metallurgy Practically Treated,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. “The work will prove very useful, not merely to the technological student, but to the practical soap-boiler who wishes to understand the theory of his art.”—Chemical News. “Really an excellent example of a technical manual, entering, as it does, thoroughly and exhaustively both into the theory and practice of soap manufacture. The book is well and honestly done, and deserves the considerable circulation with which it will doubtless meet.’’—Knowledge. “Mr. Watt’s book is a thoroughly practical treatise on an art which has almost no literature in our language. We congratulate the author on the success of his endeavour to fill a void in English technical literature.”—Nature. Paper Making. THE ART OF PAPER MANUFACTURE: A Practical Hand- book of the Manufacture of Paper from Rags, Esparto, Wood and other Fibres. By Alexander Watt, Author of “The Art of Soap-Making,” “The Art of Leather Manufacture,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Cr. 8vo. [In the press. Leather Manufacture. THE ART OF LEATHER MANUFACTURE. Being a Practical Handbook, in which the Operations ot Tanning, Currying, and Leather Dressing are fully Described, and the Principles of Tanning Ex- plained, and many Recent Processes introduced; as also Methods for the Estimation of Tannin, and a Description of the Arts of Glue Boiling, Gut Dressing, &c. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Soap-Making,” “ Electro- Metallurgy,” &c, With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, qs. cloth. ‘ ‘ A sound, comprehensive treatise on tanning and its accessories. . . An eminently valuable production, which redounds to the credit of both author and publishers.”—Chemical Review. “This volume is technical without being tedious, comprehensive and complete without being prosy, and it bears on every page the impress of a master hand. We have never come across a better trade treatise, nor one that so thoroughly supplied an absolute want.”—Shoe and Leather Trades' • Chronicle. Boot and Shoe Making. THE ART OF BOOT AND SHOE-MAKING. A Practical Handbook, including Measurement, Last-Fitting, Cutting-Out, Closing and Making, with a Description of the most approved Machinery employed. By John B. Leno, late Editor of St. Crispin, and The Boot and Shoe-Maker. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. i2mo, 2s. Cloth limp. “This excellent treatise is by far the best work ever written on the subject. A new work, embracing all modern improvements, was much wanted. This want is now satisfied. The chapter on clicking, which shows how waste may be prevented, will save fifty times the price of the book.” —Scottish Leather Trader. “ This volume is replete with matter well worthy the perusal of boot and shoe manufacturers and experienced craftsmen, and instructive and valuable in the highest degree to all young beginners and craftsmen in the trade of which it treats.”—Leather Trades' Circular. Dentistry. MECHANICAL DENTISTRY : A Practical Treatise on the Construction of the various kinds of Artificial Dentures. Comprising also Use- ful Formulae, Tables and Receipts for Gold Plate, Clasps, Solders, &c. &c. By Charles Hunter. Third Edition, Revised. With upwards of 100 Wood Engravings. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ The work is very practical.”— Monthly Review of Dental Surgery. “ We can strongly recommend Mr. Hunter’s treatise to all students preparing for the profession of dentistry, as well as to every mechanical dentist.”—Dublin Journal of Medical Science. “ A work in a concise form that few could read without gaining information from.”—British Journal of Dental Science. Wood Engraving. A PRACTICAL MANUAL OF WOOD ENGRAVING. With a Brief Account of the History of the Art. By William Norman Brown. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vof 2s. cloth. “ The author deals with the subject in a thoroughly practical and easy series of representative lessons.”—Paper and Printing Trades Journal. “ The book is clear and complete, and will be useful to anyone wanting to understand the first elements of the beautiful art of wood engraving.”—Graphic.30 CROSBY LOCKWOOD 6- S0N}S CATALOGUE. Calculator for Numbers and Weights Combined. THE NUMBER AND WEIGHT CALCULATOR. Contain- ing upwards of 250,000 Separate Calculations, showing at a glance the value at 421 different rates, ranging from of a Penny to 20s. each, or per cwt., and £20 per ton, of any number of articles consecutively, from 1 to 470.— Any number of cwts., qrs., and lbs., from 1 cwt. to 470 cwts.—Any number ot tons, cwts., qrs., and lbs., from 1 to 23^ tons. By William Chadwick, Public Accountant. Second Edition, Revised and Improved, and specially adapted for the Apportionment of Mileage Charges for Railway Traffic. 8vo, price 18s., strongly bound for Office wear and tear. [ Just published. i3sf This comprehensive and entirely unique and original Calculator is adapted for the use of Accountants and Auditors, Railway Companies, Canal Companies, Shippers, Shipping Agents, General Carriers, etc. Ironfounders, Brass founders, Metal Merchants, Iron Manufacturers, Ironmongers, Engineers, Machinists, Boiler Makers, Millwrights, Roofing, Bridge and Girder Makers, Colliery Proprietors, etc. Timber Merchants, Builders, Contractors, Architects, Surveyors, Auctioneers, Valuers, Brokers, Mill Owners and Manufacturers, Mill Furnishers, Merchants and General Wholesale Tradesmen. *** Opinions of the Press. The book contains the answers to questions, and not simply a set of ingenious puzzle methods of arriving at results. It is as easy of reference for any answer or any number of answers as a dictionary, and the references are even more quickly made. For making up accounts or esti- mates, the book must prove invaluable to all who have any considerable quantity of calculations involving price and measure in any combination to do .''—Engineer. “ The most complete and practical ready reckoner which it has been our fortune yet to see. It is difficult to imagine a trade or occupation in which it could not be of the greatest use, either in saving human labour or in checking work. The Publishers have placed within the reach of every commercial man an invaluable and unfailing assistant.”—The Miller. “ The most perfect work of the kind yet prepared.”—Glasgow Herald. Comprehensive Weight Calculator. THE WEIGHT CALCULATOR. Being a Series of Tables upon a New and Comprehensive Plan, exhibiting at One Reference the exact Value of any Weight from 1 lb. to 15 tons, at 300 Progressive Rates, from id. to 168s. per cwt., and containing 186,000 Direct Answers, which, with their Combinations, consisting of a single addition (mostly to be performed at sight), will afford an aggregate of 10,266,000 Answers; the whole being calcu- lated and designed to ensure correctness and promote despatch. By Henry Harben, Accountant. Fourth Edition, carefully Corrected. Royal 8vo, strongly half-bound, £1 5s. “ A practical and useful work of reference for men of business generally ; it is the best of the kind we have scenl'-Ironmojiger. “ Of priceless value to business men. It is a necessary book in all mercantile offices.”—Shef- field hidependent. Comprehensive Discount Guide. THE DISCOUNT GUIDE. Comprising several Series of Tables for the use of Merchants, Manufacturers, Ironmongers, and others, by which may be ascertained the exact Profit arising from any mode of using Discounts, either in the Purchase or Sale of Goods, and the method of either Altering a Rate of Discount or Advancing a Price, so as to produce, by one operation, a sum that will realise any required profit after allowing one or more Discounts: to which are added Tables of Profit or Advance from ij to go per cent., Tables of Discount from ii to g8f per cent., and Tables of Com- mission, &c., from | to 10 per cent. By Henry Harben, Accountant, Author of “ The Weight Calculator.” New Edition, carefully Revised and Corrected. Demy 8vo, 544 pp. half-bound, £1 5s. “ A book such as this can only be appreciated by business men, to whom the saving of time means saving of money. We have the high authority of Professor J. R. Young that the tables throughout the work are constructed upon strictly accurate principles. The work is a model of typographical clearness, and must prove of great value to merchants, manufacturers, and general traders.”—British Trade Journal. Iron Shipbuilders9 and Merchants9 Weight Tables. IRON-PLATE WEIGHT TABLES: For Iroti Shipbuilders, Engineers and Iron Merchants. Containing the Calculated Weights of up- wards of 150,000 different sizes of Iron Plates, from 1 foot by 6 in. by £ in. to 10 feet by 5 feet by 1 in. Worked out on the basis of 40 lbs. to the square foot of Iron of 1 inch in thickness. Carefully compiled and thoroughly Re- vised by H. Burlinson and W. H. Simpson. Oblong 4to, 25s. halt-bound. “This work will be found of great utility. The authors have had much practical experience of what is wanting in making estimates; and the use of the book will save much time ill making elaborate calculations. —English Mechanic.INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. 3i INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. Soap-making. THE ART OF SOAP-MAKING: A Practical Handbook of the Manufacture of Hard and Soft Soaps, Toilet Soaps, etc. Including many New Processes, and a Chapter on the Recovery of Glycerine from Waste Leys. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Electro-Metallurgy Practically Treated,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 7s. 6d. cloth. “The work will prove very useful, not merely to the technological student, but to the practical soap-boiler who wishes to understand the theory of his art.”—Chemical News. “Really an excellent example of a technical manual, entering, as it does, thoroughly and exhaustively both into the theory and practice of soap manufacture. The book is well and honestly done, and deserves the considerable circulation with which it will doubtless meet.”—Knowledge. “Mr. Watt’s book is a thoroughly practical treatise on an art which has almost no literature in our language. We congratulate the author on the success of his endeavour to fill a void in English technical literature.”—Nature. Paper Malting. THE ART OF PAPER MANUFACTURE: A Practical Hand- book of the Manufacture of Paper from Rags, Esparto, Wood and other Fibres. By Alexander Watt, Author of “The Art of Soap-Making,” “The Art of Leather Manufacture,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Cr. 8vo. [In the press. Leather Manufacture. THE ART OF LEATHER MANUFACTURE. Being a Practical Handbook, in which the Operations ot Tanning, Currying, and Leather Dressing are fully Described, and the Principles of Tanning Ex- plained, and many Recent Processes introduced; as also Methods for the Estimation of Tannin, and a Description of the Arts of Glue Boiling, Gut Dressing, &c. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Soap-Making,” “ Electro- Metallurgy,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 9s. cloth. ‘ ‘ A sound, comprehensive treatise on tanning and its accessories. . . An eminently valuable production, which redounds to the credit of both author and publishers.”—Chemical Review. “This volume is technical without being tedious, comprehensive and complete without being prosy, and it bears on every page the impress of a master hand. We have never come across a better trade treatise, nor one that so thoroughly supplied an absolute want.”—Shoe and Leather Trades’■ Chronicle. Boot and Shoe Making. THE ART OF BOOT AND SHOE-MAKING. A Practical Handbook, including Measurement, Last-Fitting, Cutting-Out, Closing and Making, with a Description of the most approved Machinery employed. By John B. Leno, late Editor of St. Crispin, and The Boot and Shoe-Maker. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. i2mo, 2s. cloth limp. “ This excellent treatise is by far the best work ever written on the subject. A new work, embracing all modern improvements, was much wanted. This want is now satisfied. The chapter on clicking, which shows how waste may be prevented, will save fifty times the price of the book." —Scottish Leather Trader. “ This volume is replete with matter well worthy the perusal of boot and shoe manufacturers and experienced craftsmen, and instructive and valuable in the highest degree to all young beginners and craftsmen in the trade of which it treats.”—Leather Trades' Circular. Dentistry. MECHANICAL DENTISTRY: A Practical Treatise on the Construction of the various kinds of Artificial Dentures. Comprising also Use- ful Formulae, Tables and Receipts for Gold Plate, Clasps, Solders, &c. &c. By Charles Hunter. Third Edition, Revised. With upwards of 100 Wood Engravings. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ The work is very practical.”— Monthly Review of Dental Surgery. “ Wc can strongly recommend Mr. Hunter’s treatise to all students preparing for the profession of dentistry, as well as to every mechanical dentist.”—Dublin Journal of -Medical Science. “ A work in a concise form that few could read without gaining information from.”—British Journal of Dental Science. Wood Engraving. A PRACTICAL MANUAL OF WOOD ENGRAVING. With a Brief Account of the History of the Art. By William Norman Brown. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vor2S. cloth. “ The author deals with the subject in a thoroughly practical and easy series of representative lessons.”—Paper and Printing Trades Journal. “ The book is clear and complete, and will be useful to anyone wanting to understand the first elements of the beautiful art of wood engraving."—Graphic.32 CROSBY LOCKWOOD &• SON'S CATALOGUE. HANDYBOOKS FOR HANDICRAFTS. By PnUL N. HASLUOF. IS" These Handybooks are written to supply Handicraftsmen with informa- tion on workshop practice, and are intended to convey, in plain language, technical knowledge of the several crafts. Workshop terms are used, and workshop practice described, the text being freely illustrated with drawings of modern tools, appliances and processes. N.B. The following Volumes are already published, and others are in preparation. Metal Turning, THE META L TURNER'S HA ND YBOOK. A Practical Manual for Workers at the Foot-Lathe: Embracing Information on the Tools, Appliances and Processes employed in Metal Turning. By Paul N. Has- luck, Author of “ Lathe-Work.” With upwards of One Hundred Illustra- tions. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ Altogether admirably adapted to initiate students into the art of turning.”—Leicester Post. “ Clearly and concisely written, excellent in every way, we heartily commend it to all interested In metal turning.”—Mechanical World. Wood Turning, THE WOOD TURNER'S HANDYBOOIC. A Practical Manual for Workers at the Lathe: Embracing Information on the Tools, Appliances and Processes Employed in Wood Turning. By Paul N. Hasluck. With upwards of One Hundred Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “We recommend the book to young turners and amateurs. A multitude of workmen have hitherto sought in vain for a manual of this special industry.”—Mechanical World. Watch Repairing. THE WATCH JOBBER'S HANDYBOOIC. A Practical Manual on Cleaning, Repairing and Adjusting. Embracing Information on the Tools, Materials, Appliances and Processes Employed in Watchwork. By Paul N. Hasluck. With upwards of One Hundred Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ All young persons connected with the trade should acquire and study this excellent, and at the same time, inexpensive work.”—Clerkenwell Chronicle. Pattern Making, THE PATTERN MAKER'S HANDYBOOK. A Practical Manual, embracing Information on the Tools, Materials and Appliances em- ployed in Constructing Patterns for Founders. By Paul N. Hasluck. With One Hundred Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ We commend it to all who are interested in the counsels it so ably gives.”—Colliery Guardian. “ This handy volume contains sound information of considerable value to students and artificers.”—Hardware Trades Journal. Mechanical Manipulation, THE MECHANICS WORKSHOP HANDYBOOK. A Practical Manual on Mechanical Manipulation. Embracing Information on various Handicraft Processes, with Useful Notes and Miscellaneous Memoranda. By Paul N. Hasluck. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ It is a book which should be found in every workshop, as it is one which will be continually referred to for a very great amount of standard information.”—Saturday Review. Model Engineering, THE MODEL ENGINEER'S HANDYBOOK: A Practical Manual on Model Steam Engines. Embracing Information on the Tools. Materials and Processes Employed in their Construction. By Paul N. Hasluck. With upwards of 100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. “ Mr. Hasluck’s latest volume is of greater importance than would at first appear ; and indeed he has produced a very good little book.''—Builder. “ By carefully going through the work, amateurs may pick up an excellent notion of the con- struction of full-sized steam engines ."—Telegraphic Journal. Clock Repairing. THE CLOCK JOBBER'S HANDYBOOK: A Practical Manual on Cleaning, Repairing and Adjusting. Embracing Information on the Tools, Materials, Appliances and Processes Employed in Clockwork. By Paul N.’ Hasluck. With upwards of 100 Illustrations. Cr. 8vo. 2s. cloth. [Just readyINDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. Electrolysis of Gold, Silver, Copper, etc, ELECTRO-DEPOSITION : A Practical Treatise on the Electrolysis of Gold, Silver, Copper, Nickel, and other Metals and Alloys. With descrip- tions of Voltaic Batteries, Magneto and Dynamo Electric Machines, Ther- mopiles, and oi the Materials and Processes used in every Department of the Art, and several Chapters on Electro-Metallurgy. Sy Alexander Watt, Author of “Electro-Metallurgy,” &c. With numerous Illustrations. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo, 9s. cloth. ■‘Eminently a book for the practical worker in electro-deposition. It contains minute and practical descriptions of methods, processes and materials as actually pursued and used in the workshop. Mr. Watt’s book recommends itself to all interested in its subjects.’’—Engineer, Electro-Metallurgy. ELECTRO-METALLURGY; Practically Treated. By Alexander Watt, Author of “ Electro Deposition,” &c. Ninth Edition, including the most recent Processes. i2mo, 4s. cloth boards. “From this book both amateur and artisan may learn everything necessary for the successful prosecution of electroplating.”—Iron. Electroplating. ELECTROPLATING: A Practical Handbook on the Deposi- tion of Copper, Silver, Nickel, Gold, Aluminium, Brass, Platinum, &c. &c. With Descriptions of the Chemicals, Materials, Batteries and Dynamo Machines used in the Art. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E., Author of “ Electric Light,” &c. Second Edition, Revised, with Additions. Numerous Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “ An excellent practical manual ."—Engineering, “ This book will show any person how to become an expert in electro-deposition.”—Builder. “An excellent work, giving the newest information.”—Horological Journal. Electrotyping. ELECTROTYPING : The Reproduction and Multiplication of Print- ing Surfaces and Works of Art by the Electro-deposition of Metals. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “The book is thoroughly practical. The reader is, therefore, conducted through the leading laws of electricity, then through the metals used by electrotypers, the apparatus, and the depositing processes, up to the final preparation of the work.”—Art Journal. Goldsmiths’ Work. THE GOLDSMITH'S HANDBOOK. By George E. Gee, Jeweller, &c. Third Edition, considerably Enlarged. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “A good, sound, technical educator, and will be generally accepted as an authority..”—Horo- logical Journal. “A standard book which few will care to be without.”—Jeweller and Metalworker. Silversmiths’ Work. THE SILVERSMITH'S HANDBOOK. By George E. Gee, Jeweller, &c. Second Edition, Revised, with Illustrations. i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “The chief merit of the work is its practical character. . . . The workers in the trade will speedily discover its merits when they sit down to study it ."—English Mechanic. *** The above two works together, strongly half-bound, price ys. Bread and Biscuit Baking. THE BREAD AND BISCUIT BAKER'S AND SUGAR- BOILER’S ASSISTANT. Including a large variety of Modern Recipes. With Remarks on the Art of Bread-making. By Robert Wells, Practical Baker. Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. [Just published. “ A large number of wrinkles for the ordinary cook, as well as the baker.”—Saturday Review. “ A book of instruction for learners and for daily reference in the bakehouse.”—Baker's Times. Confectionery. THE PASTRYCOOK AND CONFECTIONER'S GUIDE. For Hotels, Restaurants and the Trade in general, adapted also for Family Use. By Robert Wells, Author of “The Bread and Biscuit Baker’s and Sugar Boiler’s Assistant.” Crown 8vo, 2s. cloth. [Just published. “ We cannot speak too highly of this really excellent work. In these days of keen competition our readers cannot do better than purchase this book.”—Baker’s Times. “ Will be found as serviceable by private families as by restaurant chefs and victuallers in general.”—Miller. Laundry Work. A HANDBOOK OF LAUNDRY MANAGEMENT. For Use in Steam and Hand-Power Laundries and Private Houses. By the Editor of The Laundry Journal. Crown 8vo, zs, 6d. cloth. [Just publishedCROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. 34 Horology. A TREATISE ON MODERN HOROLOGY, in Theory and Prac- tice. Translated from the French of Claudius Saunier, ex-Director of the School ot Horology at Macon, by Julien Tripplin, F.R.A.S., Besancon, Watch Manufacturer, and Edward Rigg, M.A., Assayer in the Royal Mint. With Seventy-eight Woodcuts and Twenty-two Coloured Copper Plates. Second Edition. Super-royal 8vo, £2 2s. cloth ; £2 10s. half-calf. “ There is no horological work in the English language at all to be compared to this produc- tion of M. Saunier’s for clearness and completeness. It is alike good as a guide for the student and as a reference for the experienced liorologist and skilled workman.’’—Horological Journal. “ The latest, the most complete, and the most reliable of those literary productions to which continental watchmakers are indebted for the mechanical superiority over their English brethren —in fact, the Book of Books, is M. Saunier’s ‘ Treatise.’Watchmaker, Jeweller and Silversmith. Watchmaking. THE WA TCHMAKER'S HANDBOO K. Translated from the French of Claudius Saunier, and considerably Enlarged by Julien Tripp- lin, F.R.A.S., Vice-President of the Horological Institute, and Edward Rigg, M.A., Assayer in the Royal Mint. With Numerous Woodcuts and Fourteen Copper Plates. Second Edition, Revised.With Appendix. Cr. 8vo, 9s. cloth. “ Each part is truly a treatise in itself. The arrangement is good and the language is clear and concise. It is an admirable guide for the young watchmaker ."—Engineering. “ It is impossible to speak too highly of its excellence. It fulfils every requirement in a hand- book intended for the use of a workman. Should be found in every workshop.”— Watch and Clochmaker. ... j 7, CHEMICAL MANUFACTURES & COMMERCE. Alkali Trade, Manufacture of Sulphuric Acid, etc, A MANUAL OF THE ALKALI TRADE, including the Manufacture of Sulphuric Acid, Sulphate of Soda, and Bleaching Powder. By John Lomas, Alkali Manufacturer, Newcastle-upon-Tyne and London. With 232 Illustrations and Working Drawings, and containing 390 pages of Text. Second Edition, with Additions. Super-royal 8vo, £1 10s. cloth. “This book is written by a manufacturer for manufacturers. The working details of the most approved forms of apparatus are given, and these are accompanied by no less than 232 wood en- gravings, all of which may be used for the purposes of construction. Every step in the manufac ture is very fully described in this manual, and each improvement explained.”—Athenceum. “ We find here not merely a sound and luminous explanation of the chemical ririnciples of the trade, but a notice of numerous matters which have a most important bearing )pn the successfu conduct of alkali works, but which are generally overlooked by even experienced technologica authors.”—Chemical Review. Tirewing. A HANDBOOK FOR YOUNG BREWERS. By Herbert Edwards Wright, B.A. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ This little volume, containing such a large amount of good sense in so small a compass, ought to recommend itself to every brewery pupil, and many who have passed that ;stage.”—Breviers Guardian. “ The book is very clearly written, and the author has successfully-brought his scientific know- ledge to bear upon the various processes and details of brewing.”—Brewer. Commercial Chemical Analysis. THE COMMERCIAL HANDBOOK OF CHEMICAL ANA- LYSIS; or, Practical Instructions tor the determination ot the Intrinsic or Commercial Value of Substances used in Manufactures, in Trades, and in the Arts. By A. Normandy, Editor of Rose’s “Treatise on Chemical Analysis.” New Edition, to a great extent Re-written by Henry M. Noad, Ph.D., F.R.S. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 12s. 6d. cloth. “We strongly recommend this book to our readers as a guide, alike indispensable to the house- wife as to the pharmaceutical practitioner.”—Medical Times. ‘ ‘ Essential to the analysts appointed under the new Act. The most recent results are given, and the work is well edited and carefully written.”—Nature. Explosives. A HANDBOOK OF MODERN EXPLOSIVES. Being a Practical Treatise on the Manufacture and Application of Dynamite, Gun- Cotton, Nitro-Glycerine, and other Explpsive Compounds. By M. Eissler, Mining Engineer , Author of “ The Metallurgy of Gold,” “ The Metallurgy of Silver,” &c. With about 100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. [In the press*35 AGRICULTURE, FARMING, GARDENING, etc. Dye-Wares and Colours, THE MANUAL OF COLOURS AND DYE-WARES : Their Properties, Applications, Valuation, Impurities, and Sophistications. For the use of Dyers, Printers, Drysalters, Brokers, &c. By J. W. Slater. Second Edition, Revised and greatly Enlarged. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. cloth. “A complete encyclopaedia of the materia tinctoria. The information given respecting each article is full and precise, and the methods of determining the value of articles such as these, so liable to sophistication, are given with clearness, and are practical as well as valuable.”—Chemist and Druggist. “ There is no other work which covers precisely the same ground. To students preparing for examinations in dyeing and printing it will prove exceedingly useful.”—Chemical News. Pigments. THE ARTIST'S MANUAL OF PIGMENTS. Showing their Composition, Conditions of Permanency, Non-Permanency, and Adul- terations; Effects in Combination with Each Other and with Vehicles ; and the most Reliable Tests of Purity. Together with the Science and Arts Department’s Examination Questions on Painting. By H. C. Standage. Second Edition, Revised. Small crown 8vo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “ This work is indeed multum-in-parvo, and we can, with good conscience, recommend it to all who come in contact with pigments, whether as makers, dealers or users.”—Chemical Review. ‘ ‘ This manual cannot fail to be a very valuable aid to all painters who wish their work to endure and be of a sound character ; it is complete and comprehensive.”—Spectator. “ The author supplies a great deal of very valuable information and memoranda as to the chemical qualities and artistic effect of the principal pigments used by painters.”—Builder. Gauging, Tables and Pules for Pevenue Officers, A POCKET BOOK OF MENSURATION AND GAUGING : Containing Tables, Rules and Memoranda for Revenue Officers, Brewers, Spirit Merchants, &c. By J. B. Mant (Inland Revenue). Oblong i8mo, 4s. leather, with elastic band. “ This handy and useful book is adapted to the requirements of the Inland Revenue Depart- ment, and will be a favourite book of reference. The range of subjects is comprehensive, and the arrangement simple and clear .''—Civilian. “ A most useful book. It should be in the hands of every practical brewer "—Brewers' journal. AGRICULTURE, FARMING, GARDENING, etc. Agricultural Facts and Figures, NOTE-BOOK OF AGRICULTURAL FACTS AND FIGURES FOR FARMERS AND FARM STUDENTS. By Primrose McConnell, Fellow of the Highland and Agricultural Society ; late Professor of Agricul- ture, Glasgow Veterinary College. Third Edition. Royal 321110, full roan, gilt edges, with elastic band, 4s. “ The most complete and comprehensive Note-book for Farmers and Farm Students that we have seen. It literally teems with information, and we can cordially recommend it to all connected with agrcuilture."—North British Agriculturist. Youatt and Burn’s Complete Grazier, THE COMPLETE GRAZIER, and FARMER'S and CATTLE- BREEDER'S ASSISTANT. A Compendium of Husbandry; especially in the departments connected with the Breeding, Rearing, Feeding, and General Management of Stock; the Management of the Dairy, &c. With Directions for the Culture and Management of Grass Land, of Grain and Root Crops, the Arrangement of Farm Offices, the use of Implements and Machines, and on Draining, Irrigation, Warping, &c.; and the Application and Relative Value of Manures. By William Youatt, Esq., V.S. Twelfth Edition, En- larged by Robert Scott Burn, Author of “ Outlines of Modern Farming,” “ Systematic Small Farming,” &c. One large 8vo volume, 860 pp., with 244 Illustrations, £1 is. half-bound. “ The standard and text-book with the farmer and grazier.”—Farmer's Magazine. “A treatise which will remain a standard work on the subject as long as British agriculture endures.”—Mark Lane Express (First Notice). “ The book deals with all departments of agriculture, and contains an immense amount of valuable information. It is, in fact, an encyclopaedia of agriculture put into readable form, and it is the only work equally comprehensive brought down to present date. It is excellently printed on thick paper, and strongly bound, and deserves a place in the library of every agriculturist.”—Mark Lane Fzc-bress (Second Notice). “ This esteemed work is well worthy of a place in the libraries of agriculturists.”—North British Agriculturist.36 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON’S CATALOGUE. Flour Manufacture, Milling, etc. FLOUR MANUFACTURE: A Treatise on Milling Science and Practice. By Friedrich Kick, Imperial Regierungsrath, Professor of Mechanical Technology in the Imperial German Polytechnic Institute, Prague. Translated from the Second Enlarged and Revised Edition with Supplement, By H. H. P. Powles, A.M.I.C.E. Nearly 400 pp. Illustrated with 28 Folding Plates, and 167 Woodcuts. Royal 8vo, 25s. cloth. “This valuable work is, and will remain, the standard authority on the science of milling-. . . The miller who has read and digested this work will have laid the foundation, so to speak, of a suc- cessful career ; he will have acquired a number of general principles which he can proceed to apply. In this handsome volume we at last have the accepted text-book of modern milling in good sound English, which has little, if any, trace of the German idiom.”—The Milter. “ The appeaiance of this celebrated work in English is very opportune, and British millers will, we are sure, not be slow in availing themselves of its pages.”— Millers' Gazette. Small Farming, SYSTEMATIC SMALL FARMING; or, The Lessons of my Farm. Being an Introduction to Modern Farm Practice for Small Farmers. By Robert Scott Burn, Author of “ Outlines of Modern Farming.” With numerous Illustrations, crown 8vo, 6s. cloth. “This is the completest book of its class we have seen, and one which every amateur farmer will read with pleasure and accept as a guide.”—Field. “The volume contains a vast amount of useful information. No branch of farming is left untouched, from the labour to be done to the results achieved. It may be safely recommended to who think they will be in paradise when they buy or rent a three-acre farm.”— Glasgow Herald. Modern Farming, OUTLINES OF MODERN FARMING. By R. Scott Burn. Soils, Manures, and Crops—Farming and Farming Economy—Cattle, Sheep, and Horses — Management of Dairy, Pigs and Poultry — Utilisation of Town-Sewage, Irrigat on, &c. Sixth Edition. In One Vol., 1,250 pp., half- bound, profusely Illustrated, 12s. “ The aim of the author has been to make his work at once comprehensive and trustworthy, and in this aim he has succeeded to a degree which entitles him to much credit.”—Morning Advertiser. “ No farmer shculd be without this book.”—Banbury Guardian. Agricultural Engineering, FARM ENGINEERING, THE COMPLETE TEXT-BOOK OF. Comprising Draining and Embanking; Irrigation and Water Supply; Farm Roads, Fences, and Gates; Farm Buildings, their Arrangement and Con- struction, with Plans and Estimates; Barn Implements and Machines; Field Implements and Machines; Agricultural Surveying, Levelling, &c. By Prof. John Scott, Professor of Agriculture at the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester, &c. In One Vol., 1,150 pages, half-bound, 6co Illustrations, 12s. “Written with great care, as well as with knowledge and ability. The author has done his work well; we have found him a very trustworthy guide wherever we have tested his statements. The volume will be of great value to agricultural students.”—Mark Lane Express. “For a young agriculturist we know of no handy volume so likely to be more usefully studied.” ~Bell’s Weekly Messenger. English Agriculture. THE FIELDS OF GREAT BRITAIN : A Text-Book of Agriculture, adapted to the Syllabus of the Science and Art Department. For Elementary and Advanced Students. By Hugh Clements (Board of Trade). Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. i8mo, 2s. 6d. cloth. “A most comprehensive volume, giving a mass of information.”—Agricultural Economist. “It is a long time since we have seen a book which has pleased us more, or which contains such a vast and useful fund of knowledge.”—Educational Times. Netv Pocket Book for Farmers, TABLES, MEMORANDA, AND CALCULATED RESULTS for Farmers, Graziers, Agricultural Students, Surveyors, Land Agents Auc- tioneers, etc. With a New System of Farm Book-keeping. Selected and Arranged by Sidney Francis. Second Edition, Revised. 272 pp., waist- coat-]- r - ’ : ze, is. 6d., limp leather. [Just published. “ Wcigning less than 1 oz , and occupying no more space than a match box, it contains a mass of facts and calculations which has never before, in such handy form, been obtainable. Every operation on the farm is dealt with. The work may be taken as thoroughly accurate, having been revised by Dr. Fream. We cordially recommend it ."—Bell's Weekly Messenger. “ A marvellous little book. . . . The agriculturist who possesses himself of it will not be disappointed with his investment.”— The Farm.37 AGRICULTURE, FARMING, GARDENING, etc. Farm and Estate Book-keeping. BOOK-KEEPING FOR FARMERS & ESTATE OWNERS. A Practical Treatise, presenting, in Three Plans, a System adapted to all Classes of Farms. By Johnson M. Woodman, Chartered Accountant. Second Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth boards ; or 2s. 6d. cloth limp. “ The volume is a capital study of a most important subject.”—Agricultural Gazette. “ Will be found of great assistance by those who intend to commence a system of book-keep- ing, the author’s examples being clear and explicit, and his explanations, while full and accurate, being to a large extent free from technicalities.”—Live Stock Journal. Farm Account Book. WOODMAN'S YEARLY FARM ACCOUNT BOOK, giving a Weekly Labour Account and Diary, and showing the Income and Expen- diture under each Department of Crops, Live Stock, Dairy, &c. &c. With Valuation, Profit and Loss Account, and Balance Sheet at the end of the Year, and an Appendix of Forms. Ruled and Headed for Entering a Com- plete Record of the Farming Operations. By Johnson M. Woodman, Chartered Accountant, Author of “ Book-keeping for Farmers.” Folio, 7s. 6d. half bound. [culture. •‘Contains every requisite orm for keeping farm accounts readily and accurately.”—Agri- Early Fruits, Flowers and Vegetables. THE FORCING GARDEN; or, How to Grow Early Fruits, Flowers, and Vegetables. With Plans and Estimates for Building Glass- houses, Pits and Frames. Containing also Original Plans for Double Glazing, a New Method of Growing the Gooseberry under Glass, &c. &c., and on Venti- lation, &c. With Illustrations. By Samuel Wood. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ A good book, and fairly fills a place that was in some degree vacant. The book is written with great care, and contains a great deal of valuable teaching.”—Gardeners’ Magazine. “Mr. Wood’s book is an original and exhaustive answer to the question ‘How to Grow Early Fruits, Flowers and Vegetables 1 ’ ”—Land and Water. Good Gardening. A PLAIN GUIDE TO GOOD GARDENING ; or, Howto Grow Vegetables, Fruits, and Flowers. With Practical Notes on Soils, Manures, Seeds, Planting, Laying-out of Gardens and Grounds, &c. By S. Wood. Third Edition, with considerable Additions, &c., and numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 5s. cloth. “A very good book, and one to be highly recommended as a practical guide. The practical directions are excellent.”—Athenceum. “ May be recommended to young gardeners, cottagers and amateurs, for the plain and trust- worthy information it gives on common matters too often neglected.”—Gardeners.' Chronicle. . Gainful Gardening. MULTUM-IN-PARVO GARDENING; or, How to make One Acre of Land produce £620 a-year by the Cultivation of Fruits and Vegetables; also, How to Grow Flowers in Three Glass Houses, so as to realise £176 per annum clear Profit. By Samuel Wood, Author of “Good Gardening,” &c. Fourth and cheaper Edition, Revised, with Additions. Crown 8vo, is. sewed. “We are bound to recommend it as not only suited to the case of the amateur and gentleman’s gardener, but to the market grower.”—Gardeners' Magazine. Gardening for Ladies. THE LADIES' MULTUM-IN-PARVO FLOWER GARDEN, and Amateurs' Complete Guide. By S. Wood. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ This volume contains a good deal of sound, common sense instruction.”—Florist. “ Full of shrewd hints and Useful instructions, based on a lifetime of experience.”'—Scotsman* Receipts for Gardeners. GARDEN RECEIPTS. Edited by Charles W. Quin, i2mo, is. 6d. cloth limp. “ A useful and handy book, containing a good deal of valuable information.”—Athenaiem. Market Gardening. MARKET AND KITCHEN GARDENING. By Contributors . to “The Garden.” Compiled by C. W. Shaw, late Editor of “Gardening Illustrated.” i2mo, 3s. 6d. cloth boards. {Just.published. “ Tke most valuable compendium of kitchen and market-garden work published.”—Farmer. Cottage Gardening. COTTAGE GARDENING; or, Flowers, Fruits, and Vegetables for Small Gardens. By E. Hobday, nmo, is. 6d. cloth limp. " Contains much useful information at a small charge.”—Glasgow Herald.38 CROSBY LOCKWOOD & SON'S CATALOGUE. ESTATE MANAGEMENT, AUCTIONEERING, LAW, etc. Hudson’s Land Valuer’s PocJcet-BooJc. THE LAND VALUER'S BEST ASSISTANT: Being Tables on a very much Improved Plan, for Calculating the Value of Estates. With Tables tor reducing Scotch, Irish, and Provincial Customary Acres to Statute Measure, &c. By R. Hudson, C.E. New Edition. Royal 321110, leather, elastic band, 4s. “ This new edition includes tables or ascertaining the value of leases for any term of years; and for showing how to lay out plots of ground of certain acres in forms, square, round, &c., with valuable rules for ascertaining the probable worth of standing timber to any amount; and is of incalculable value to the country gentleman and professional man.”—Farmers' Journal. Ewart’s Land Improver’s Pocket-Book. THE LAND IMPROVER’S POCKET-BOOK OF FORMULAE, TABLES and MEMORANDA required in any Computation relating to the Permanent Improvement of Landed Property. By John Ewart, Land Surveyor and Agricultural Engineer. Second Edition, Revised. Royal 32010, oblong, leather, gilt edges, with elastic band, 4s. “ A compendious and handy little volume."—Spectator. Complete Agricultural Surveyor’s Pocket-Book. THE LAND VALUER’S AND LAND IMPROVER’S COM- PLETE POCKET-BOOK. Consisting of the above Two Works bound to- gether. Leather, gilt edges, with strap, js. 6d. “ Hudson’s book is the best ready-reckoner on matters relating to the valuation of land and crops, and its combination with Mr. Ewart’s work greatly enhances the value and usefulness of the latter-mentioned. ... It is most useful as a manual for reference."—North of England Farmer. Auctioneer’s Assistant. THE APPRAISER, A UCTIONEER, BROKER, HOUSE AND ESTA TE A GENT AND VAL UER’S POCKET A SSISTA NT, for the Valua- tion for Purchase, Sale, or Renewal of Leases, Annuities and Reversions, and of property generally; with Prices for Inventories, &c. By John Wheeler, Valuer, &c. Fifth Edition, re-written and greatly extended by C. Norris, Surveyor, Valuer, &c. Royal 32010, 5s. cloth. “A neat and concise book of reference, containing an admirable and clearly-arranged list of prices for inventories, and a very practical guide to determine the value of furniture,&c.”—Standard. “ Contains a large quantity of varied and useful information as to the valuation for purchase, sale, or renewal of leases, annuities and reversions, and of property generally, with prices for inventories, and a guide to determine the value of interior fittings and other effects.”—Builder. Auctioneering. AUCTIONEERS: Their Duties and. Liabilities. By Robert Squibbs, Auctioneer. Demy 8vo, 10s. 6d. cloth. “The position and duties of auctioneers treated compendiously and clearly.”—Builder. “Every auctioneer ought to possess a copy of this excellent work."—Ironmonger. “ Of great value to the profession. . . . We readily welcome this book from the fact that it treats the subject in a manner somewhat new to the profession.”—Estates Gazette. Legal Guide for Pawnbrokers. THE PAWNBROKERS', FACTORS' AND MERCHANTS' GUIDE TO THE LAW OF LOANS AND PLEDGES. With the Statutes and a Digest of Cases on Rights and Liabilities, Civil and Criminal, as to Loans and Pledges of Goods, Debentures, Mercantile and other Se- curities. By H. C. Folkard, Esq., Barrister-at-Law, Author of “The Law of Slander and Libel,’’ &c. With Additions and Corrections. Fcap. 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. “ This work contains simply everything that requires to be known concerning the department of the law of which it treats. We can safely commend the book as unique and very nearly perfect." —Iron. “ The task undertaken by Mr. Folkard has been very satisfactorily performed. . . . Such ex- planations as are needful have been supplied with great clearness and with due regard to brevity." City Press.ESTATE MANAGEMENT, AUCTIONEERING, LAW, etc. 39 How to Invest. HINTS FOR INVESTORS: Being an Explanation of the Mode of Transacting Business on the Stock Exchange. To which are added Com- ments on the Fluctuations and Table of Quarterly Average prices of Consols since 1759. Also a Copy of the London Daily Stock and Share List. By Walter M. Playford, Sworn Broker. Crown 8vo, 2.S. cloth. “ An invaluable guide to investors and speculators.”—Bullionist Metropolitan Rating Appeals. REPORTS OF APPEALS HEARD BEFORE THE COURT OF GENERAL ASSESSMENT SESSIONS, from the Year 1871 to 1885. By Edward Ryde and Arthur Lyon Ryde. Fourth Edition, brought down to the Present Date, with an Introduction to the Valuation (Metropolis) Act, 1869, and an Appendix by Walter C. Ryde, of the Inner Temple, Barrister- at-Law. 8vo, 16s. cloth. “ A useful work, occupying a place mid-way between a handbook for a lawyer and a guide to the surveyor. It is compiled by a gentleman eminent in his profession as a land agent, whose spe- cialty, it is acknowledged, lies in the direction of assessing property for rating purposes.”—Land Agents' Record. House Property. HA NDBOOK OF HO USE PROPERTY. A Popular and Practical Guide to the Purchase, Mortgage, Tenancy, and Compulsory Sale of Houses and Land, including the Law of Dilapidations and Fixtures; with Examples of all kinds of Valuations, Useful Information on Buildings, and Suggestive Elucidations of Fine Art. By E. L. Tarbuck, Architect and Surveyor. Fourth Edition, Enlarged. i2mo, 5s. cloth. 11 The advice is thoroughly practical.”—Law Journal. “ For all who have dealings with house property, this is an indispensable guide.”—Decoi-ation. "Carefully brought up to date, and much improved by the addition of a division on fine art. . A well-written and thoughtful work.”—Land Agents’ Record Inwood’s Estate Tables. TABLES FOR THE PURCHASING OF ESTATES, Freehold, Copyhold, or Leasehold; Annuities, Advowsons, etc., and for the Renewing of Leases held under Cathedral Churches, Colleges, or other Corporate bodies, for Terms of Years certain, and for Lives; also for Valuing Reversionary Estates, Deferred Annuities, Next Presentations, &c.; together with Smart’s Five Tables of Compound Interest, and an Extension orthe Same to Lower and Intermediate Rates. By W. Inwood. 23rd Edition, with considerable Additions, and new and valuable Tables of Logarithms for the more Difficult Computations of the Interest of Money, Discount, Annuities, &c., by M. Fedor Thoman. -oI the Societe Credit Mobilier of Paris. Crown 8vo, 8s. cloth. "Those interested in the purchase and sale of estates, and in the adjustment of compensation cases, as well as in transactions in annuities, life insurances, &c., will find the present edition of eminent service. ”—Engineering. ‘ ‘ ‘ Inwood’s Tables ’ still maintain a most enviable reputation. The new issue has been enriched by large additional contributions by M. Fedor Thoman, whose carefully arranged Tables cannot fail to be of the utmost utility.”—Mining Journal. Agricultural and Tenant-Right Valuation. THE AGRICULTURAL AND TENANT-RIGHT-VALUER'S ASSISTANT. A Practical Handbook on Measuring and Estimating the Contents, Weights and Values of Agricultural Produce and Timber, the Values of Estates and Agricultural Labour, Forms of Tenant-Right-Valua- tions, Scales of Compensation under the Agricultural Holdings Act, 1883, &c. &c. By Tom Bright, Agricultural Surveyor. Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d. cloth. " Full of tables and examples in connection with the valuation of tenant-right, estates, labour, contents, and weights of timber, and farm produce of all kinds.”—Agricultural Gazette. “ An eminently practical handbook, full of practical tables and data of undoubted interest and value to surveyors and auctioneers in preparing valuations ot all kinds.”—Farmer. Plantations and Underwoods. POLE PLANTATIONS AND UNDERWOODS: A Practical Handbook on Estimating the Cost of Forming, Renovating, Improving and Grubbing Plantations and Underwoods, their Valuation for Purposes of Transfer, Rental, Sale or Assessment. By Tom Bright, F.S.Sc., Author of “The Agricultural and Tenant-Right-Valuer’s Assistant,” &c. Crown 8vo, • 3s. 6d. cloth. [Just published, " Very useful to those actually engaged in managing wood.”—Bell's Weekly Messenger. “ To valuers, foresters and agents it will be a welcome aid.”—North British Agriculturist. “ Well calculated to assist the valuer in the discharge of his duties, and of undoubted interest and use both to surveyors and auctioneers in preparing valuations of all kinds. '—Kent Heral.t.weale’s rudimentary series. LONDON : CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, WEALE’S RUDIMENTARY SCIENTIFIC SERIES. *** The volumes of this Series are freely Illustrated with Woodcuts, or otherwise, where requisite. Throughout the fol- lowing List it m-ust be understood that the books are bound in limp cloth, unless otherwise stated; but the volumes marked with a % may also be had strongly bound in cloth boards for 6d. extra. N.B.—In ordering from this List it is recommended, as a means of facilitating business and obviating error, to quote the numbers affixea to the volumes, as well as the titles and prices. CIVIL ENGINEERING, SURVEYING. ETC. No. 31. WELLS AND WELL-SLNKLNG. By John Geo. Swindell, A.R.I.B.A., and G. R. Burnell, C.E. Revised Edition. With a New Appendix on the Qualities of Water. Illustrated. 2s. 35. THE BLASTING AND QUARRYING OF STONE, for Building and other Purposes. With Remarks on the Blowing up of Bridges. By Gen. Sir John Burgoyne, Bart., K.C.B. Illustrated, is. 6d. 43. TUBULAR, AND OTHER IRON GIRDER BRIDGES, par- ticularly describing the Britannia and Conway Tubular Bridges. By G. Drysdale Dempsey, C.E. Fourth Edition. 2s. 44. FOUNDATIONS AND CONCRETE WORKS, with Practical Remarks' on Footings, Sand, Concrete, Beton, Pile-driving, Caissons, and Cofferdams, &c. By E. Dobson. Fifth Edition, is. 6d. 60. LAND AND ENGINEERING SUR VEYING. By T. Baker, C.E. Fourteenth Edition, revised by Professor J. R. Young. 2s.i 80*. EMBANKING LANDS FROM THE SEA. With examples and Particulars of actual Embankments, &c. By J. Wiggins, F.G.S. 2s. 81. WATER WORKS, for the Supply of Cities and Towns. With a Description of the Principal Geological Formations of England as in- fluencing Supplies of Water; and Details of Engines and Pumping Machinery for raising Water. By Samuel Hughes, F.G.S., C.E. New Edition. 4S4 818. CIVIL ENGINEERING IN NORTH AMERICA, a Sketch of. By David Stevenson, F.R.S.E., &c. Plates and Diagrams. 3s. *67. IRON BRIDGES, GIRDERS, ROOFS, AND OTHER WORKS. By Francis Campin, C.E. 2s. 6d.t 197. ROADS AND STREETS (THE CONSTRUCTION OF). By Henry Law, C.E., revised and enlarged by D. K. Clark, C.E., including pavements of Stone, Wood, Asphalte, &c. 4s. 6d.t 203. SA Nil ARY WORK IN THE SMALLER TOWNS AND IN VILLAGES. By C. Slagg, A.M.I.C.E. Revised Edition. 3s.* 212. GAS-WORKS, THEIR CONSTRUCTION AND ARRANGE- MENT ; and the Manufacture and Distribution of Coal Gas. Originally written by Samuel Hughes, C.E. Re-written and enlarged by William Richards, C.E. Seventh Edition, with important additions. 5s. 6d.J 213. PIONEER ENGINEERING. A Treatise on the Engineering Operations connected with the Settlement of Waste Lands in New Coun- tries. By Edward Dobson, Assoc. Inst. C.E. 4s. 6d.t 216. MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION; A Theoretical and Practical Treatise on the Strains, Designing, and Erection of Works of Con- struction. By Francis Campin, C.E. Second Edition, revised. 3s.t 219. CIVIL ENGINEERING. By Henry Law, M.Inst. C.E. Including Hydraulic Engineering by Geo. R. Burnell, M.Inst. C.E. Seventh Edition, revised, with large additions by D. Kinnear Clark, M.Inst. C.E. 6s. 6d., Cloth boards, 7s. 6d. 6^^ The t indicates that these vois. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.3 weale’s rudimentary series. 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE HILL, E.C. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING, ETC. 33. CRANES, the Construction of, and other Machinery for Raising Heavy Bodies. By Joseph Glynn, F.R.S. Illustrated, is. 6d. 34. THE STEAM ENGINE. By Dr. Lardner. Illustrated, is. 6d. 59. STEAM BOILERS: their Construction and Management. By R. Armstrong, C.E. Illustrated, is. 6d. 82. THE ROWER OF WATER, as applied to drive Flour Mills, and to give motion to Turbines, &c. By Joseph Glynn, F.R.S. 2s4 98. PRACTICAL MECHANISM, the Elements of; and Machine Tools. By T. Baker, C.E. With Additions by J. Nasmyth, C.E. 2s. 6d4 [39. THE STEAM ENGINE, a Treatise on the Mathematical Theory of, with Rules and Examples for Practical Men. By T. Baker, C.E. is. 6d. 164. MODERN WORKSHOP PRACTICE, as applied to Steam Engines, Bridges, Ship-building, Cranes, &c. ByJ. G. Winton. Fourth Edition, much enlarged and carefully revised. 3s. 6d.{ \_Jtist published. 165. IRON AND HEAT, exhibiting the Principles concerned in the Construction of Iron Beams, Pillars, and Girders. ByJ. Armour. 2s. 6d4 r66. POWER IN MOTION: Horse-Power, Toothed-Wheel Gearing, Long and Short Driving Bands, and Angular Forces. ByJ. Armour, 2s4 171. THE WORKMAN’S MANUAL OF ENGINEERING DRAWING. By J. Maxton. 6th Edn. With 7 Plates and 350 Cuts. 3s. 6d4 190. STEAM AND THE STEAM ENGINE, Stationary and Portable. Being an Extension of the Elementary Treatise on the Steam Engine of Mr. John Sewell. By D. K. Clark, M.I.C.E. 3s. 6d4 200. FUEL, its Combustion and Economy. By C. W. Williams. With Recent Practice in the Combustion and Economy of Fuel—Coal, Coke, Wood, Peat, Petroleum, &c.—by D. K. Clark, M.I.C.E. 3s. 6d4 202. LOCOMOTIVE ENGINES. By G. D. Dempsey, C.E.; with large additions by D. Kinnear Clark, M.I.C.E. 3s.t 211. THE BOILERMAKER’S ASSISTANT in Drawing, Tern- plating, and Calculating Boiler and Tank Work. By John Courtney. Practical Boiler Maker. Edited by D. K. Clark, C.E. 100 Illustrations. 2s, 217. SEWING MACHINERY: Its Construction, History, See., with full Technical Directions for Adjusting, &c. By J. W. Urquhart, C.E. 2s4 223. MECHANICAL ENGINEERING. Comprising Metallurgy, Moulding, Casting, Forging, Tools, Workshop Machinery, Manufacture of the Steam Engine, &c. By Francis Campin, C.E. Second Edition. 2s. 6d4 236. DETAILS OF MACHINERY. Comprising Instructions for the Execution of various Works in Iron. By Francis Campin, C.E. 3S.t 237. THE SMITHY AND FORGE; including the Farrier’s Art and Coach Smithing. By W. J. E. Crane. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.J 238. THE SHEET-METAL WORKER’S GUIDE; a Practical Hand- book for Tinsmiths, Coppersmiths, Zincworkers, &c. With 94 Diagrams and Working Patterns. By W. J. E. Crane. Second Edition, revised, is. 5d. 251. STEAM AND MACHINERY MANAGEMENT: with Hints on Construction and Selection. By M. Powis Bale, M.I.M E. 2s. 6d4 254. THE BOILERMAKER’S READY-RECKONER. By J. Courtney. Edited by D. K. Clark, C.E. 4s., limp; 5s., half-bound. 255. LOCOMOTIVE ENGINE-DRIVING. A Practical Manual for Engineers in charge of Locomotive Engines. By Michael Reynolds, M.S.E Eighth Edition. 3s. 6d., limp ; 4s. 6d. cloth boards. 256. STATIONARY ENGINE-DRIVING. A Practical Manual Engineers in charge of Stationary Engines. By Michael Reynolds, M.S.E. Third Edition. 3s. 6d. limp ; 4s. 6d. cloth boards. 260. IRON BRIDGES OF MODERATE SPAN: their Construc- tion and Erection. By Hamilton W. Pendred, C.E. 2s. *sr The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.weale’s rudimentary series. LONDON : CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, MINING, METALLURGY, ETC. 4. MINERALOGY, Rudiments of; a concise View of the General Properties of Minerals. By A. Ramsay, F.G.S., F.R.G.S., &c. Third Edition, revised and enlarged. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.i 117. SUBTERRANEOUS SUR VEYING, with and without the Mag- netic Needle. By T. Fenwick and T. Baker, C.E. Illustrated. 2s. 6d. $ 133. METALLURGY OF COPPER. By R. H. Lamborn. 2s.6d.ij; 135. ELECTRO-METALLURGY; Practically Treated. By Alex- ander Watt. Ninth Edition, enlarged and revised, with additional Illus- trations, and including the most recent Processes. 3s. 6d.t 172. MINING TOOLS, Manual , of. For the Use of Mine Managers, Agents, Students, &c. By William Morgans. 2s. 6d. 172*. MINING TOOLS, ATLAS of Engravings to Illustrate the above, containing 235 Illustrations, drawn to Scale. 4to. 4s. 6d. 176. METALLURGY OF IRON. Containing History of Iron Manu- facture, Methods of Assay, and Analyses of Iron Ores, Processes of Manu- facture of Iron and Steel, &c. By H. Bauerman, F.G.S. Sixth Edition, revised and enlarged. 5s.t [Just published. 180. COAL AND COAL MINING. By Warington W. Smyth, M.A., F.R.S. Sixth Edition, revised 3s. 6d.$ 195. 7HE MINERAL SURVEYOR AND VALUER’S COM- PLETE GUIDE. By W. Lintern, Mining Engineer. Third Edition, with an Appendix on Magnetic and Angular Surveying. With Four Plates. 3s. 6d.t [Justpublished. 214. SLATE AND SLATE QUARR YING, Scientific, Practical, and Commercial. By D. C. Davies, F.G.S., Mining Engineer, &c. 3s.t 264. A FIRST BOOK OF MINING AND QUARRYING, with the Sciences connected therewith, for Primary Schools and Self Instruction. By J. H. Collins, F.G.S. Second Edition, with additions, is. 6d. ARCHITECTURE, BUILDING, ETC. 16. ARCHITECTURE—ORDERS—The Orders and their ^Esthetic Principles. By W. H. Leeds. Illustrated, is. 6d. 17. ARCHITECTURE—STYLES—The History and Description of the Styles of Architecture of Various Countries, from the Earliest to the Present Period. By T. Talbot Bury, F.R.I.B.A., &c. Illustrated. 2s. *** Orders and Styles of Architecture, in One Vol., 3$. 6d. 18. ARCHITECTURE—DESIGN—The Principles of Design in Architecture, as deducible from Nature and exemplified in the Works of the Greek and Gothic Architects. ByE. L. Garbett, Architect. Illustrated. 2S.6d. '»* The three preceding Works, in One handsome Vol., half bound, entitled “Modern Architecture,”price 6s. 22. THE ART OF BUILDING, Rudiments of. General Principles of Construction, Materials used in Building, Strength and Use of Materials, Working Drawings, Specifications, and Estimates. By E. Dobson, 2s.t 25. MASONRY AND STONECUTTING: Rudimentary Treatise on the Principles of Masonic Projection and their application to Con- struction. By Edward Dobson, M.R.I.B.A., &c. 2s. 6d4 42. COTTAGE BUILDING. By C. Bruce Allen, Architect. Tenth Edition, revised and enlarged. With a Chapter on Economic Cottages for Allotments, by Edward E. Allen, C.E. 2s. 45. LIMES, CEMENTS, MORTARS, CONCRETES, MASTICS, PLASTERING, &c. By G. R. Burnell, C.E. Thirteenth Edition, is. 6d. 57. WARMING AND VENTILATION. An Exposition of the General Principles as applied to Domestic and Public Buildings, Mines, Lighthouses. Ships, &c. By C. Tomlinson, F.R.S., &c. Illustrated. 3s. The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.5 weale’s rudimentary series. 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE HILL, E.C. Architecture, Building, etc., continued. in. ARCHES, PIERS, BUTTRESSES, &c.: Experimental Essays on the Principles of Construction. By W. Bland. Illustrated, is. 6d. 116. THE ACOUSTICS OF PUBLIC BUILDINGS; or, The Principles of the Science of Sound applied to the purposes of the Architect and Builder. By T. Roger Smith, M.R.I.B.A., Architect. Illustrated, is. 6d. 127. ARCHITECTURAL MODELLING IN PAPER, the Art of. By T. A. Richardson, Architect. Illustrated, is. 6d. 128. VITRUVIUS—THE ARCHITECTURE OF MARCUS VITRUVIUS POLLO. In Ten Books. Translated from the Latin by Joseph Gwilt, F.S.A., F.R.A.S. With 23 Plates. 5s. 130. GRECIAN ARCHITECTURE, An Inquiry into the Principles of Beauty in ; with an Historical View of the Rise and Progress of the Art in Greece. By the Earl of Aberdeen, is. *** The two preceding Works in One handsome Vol., half bound, entitled “Ancient Architecture,” price 6 s. 132. THE ERECTION OF DWELLING-HOUSES. Illustrated by a Perspective View, Plans, Elevations, and Sections of a pair of Semi- detached Villas, with the Specification, Quantities, and Estimates, &c. By S. H. Brooks. New Edition, with Plates. 2s. 6d„t 156. QUANTITIES & MEASUREMENTSin Bricklayers’, Masons’, Plasterers’, Plumbers’, Painters’, Paperhangers’, Gilders’, Smiths’, Carpenters’ and Joiners’ Work. By A. C. Beaton, Surveyor. New Edition, is. 6d. 175. LOCKWOOD & SON’S BUILDER'S 6- CONTRACTOR’S PRICE BOOK, containing the latest Prices of all kinds of Builders’ Materials and Labour, and of all Trades connected with Building, &c., &c. Edited by F. T. W. Miller, Architect. Published annually. 3s. 6d.; half bound, 4s. 182. CARPENTRY AND JOINERY— The Elementary Prin- ciples of Carpentry. Chiefly composed from the Standard Work of Thomas Tredgold, C.E. With a TREATISE ON JOINERY by R. Wyndham Tarn, M.A. Fourth Edition, Revised. 3s. 6d.J 182*. CARPENTRY AND JOINERY. ATLAS of 35 Plates to accompany the above. With Descriptive Letterpress. 4to. 6s. 185. THE COMPLETE MEASURER ; the Measurement of Boards, Glass, &c.; Unequal-sided, Square-sided, Octagonal-sided, Round Timber and Stone, and Standing Timber, &c. By Richard Horton. Fifth Edition. 4s.; strongly bound in leather, 5s. 187. HINTS TO YOUNG ARCHITECTS. By G. Wightwick. New Edition. By G. H. Guillaume. Illustrated. 3s. 6d.J 188. HOUSE PAINTING, GRAINING, MARBLING, AND SIGN WRITING : with a Course of Elementary Drawing for House-Painters, Sign- Writers, &c., and a Collection of Useful Receipts. By Ellis A. Davidson. Fifth Edition. With Coloured Plates. 5s. cloth limp ; 6s. cloth boards. 189. THE RUDIMENTS OF PRACTICAL BRICKLAYING. In Six Sections: General Principles; Arch Drawing, Cutting, and Setting; Pointing; Paving, Tiling, Materials; Slating and Plastering; Practical Geometry, Mensuration, &c. By Adam Hammond. Seventh Edition, is. 6d. 191. PLUMBING. A Text-Book to the Practice of the Art or Craft of the Plumber. With Chapters upon House Drainage and Ventilation. Fifth Edition. With 380 Illustrations. By W. P. Buchan. 3s. 6d.t 192. THE TIMBER IMPORTER’S, TIMBER MERCHANT’S, and BUILDER’S STANDARD GUIDE. By R. E. Grandy. 2s. 206. A BOOK ON BUILDING, Civil and Ecclesiastical, including Church Restoration. With the Theory of Domes and the Great Pyramid. &c. By Sir Edmund Beckett, Bart., LL.D., Q.C., F.R.A.S. 4s. 6d.t 226. THE JOINTS MADE AND USED BY BUILDERS in the Construction of various kinds of Engineering and Architectural Works. By WyvillJ. Christy, Architect. With upwards of 160 Engravingson Wood. 3s.t The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.6 weale's rudimentary series. LONDON : CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, Architecture, Building, etc., continued. 228. THE CONSTRUCTION OF ROOFS OF WOOD AND IRON. By E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A., Architect. Second Edition, revised, is. 6d. 229. ELEMENTARY DECORATION: as applied to the Interior and Exterior Decoration of Dwelling-Houses, &c. By J. W. Facey. 2s. 257. PRACTICAL HOUSE DECORATION. A Guide to the Art of Ornamental Painting. By James W. Facey. 2s. 6d. *** The two preceding Works, in One handsome Vol., half-bound, entitled “ House Decoration, Elementary and Practical,” price 5s. 230. HANDRAILING. Showing New and Simple Methods for finding the Pitch of the Plank. Drawing the Moulds, Bevelling, Jointing-up, and Squaring the Wreath. By George Collings. Plates and Diagrams. is.6d, 247. BUILDING ESTA TES : a Rudimentary Treatise on the Develop- ment, Sale, Purchase, and General Management of Building Land. By Fowler Maitland, Surveyor. Second Edition, revised. 2s. 248. PORTLAND CEMENT FOR USERS. By Henry Faija, Assoc. M. Inst. C.E. Second Edition, corrected. Illustrated. 2s. 252. BRICKWORK: a Practical Treatise, embodying the General and Higher Principles of Bricklaying, Cutting and Setting, &c. By F. Walker. Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged, is. 6d. 23. THE PRACTICAL BRICK AND TILE BOOK. Comprising: 189. Brick and Tile Making, by E. Dobson, A.I.C.E.; Practical Bricklay- 252. ing, by A. Hammond ; Brickwork, by F. Walker. 550 pp. with 270 Illus- trations. 6s. Strongly half-bound. 253. THE TIMBER MERCHANT’S, SAW-MILLER’S, AND IMPORTER’S FREIGHT-BOOK AND ASSISTANT. By Wm. Rich- ardson. With a Chapter on Speeds of Saw-Mill Machinery, &c. By M. Powis Bale, A.M.Inst.C.E. 3s.* 258. CIRCULAR WORK IN CARPENTRY AND JOINERY. A Practical Treatise on Circular Work of Single and Double Curvature. By George Collings, Author of “A Treatise on Handrailing.” 2s. 6d. 259. GAS FITTING: A Practical Handbook treating of every Description of Gas Laying and Fitting. By John Black. With 122 Illus- trations. 2s. 6d.t 261. SHORING AND ITS APPLICATION: A Handbook for the Use of Students. By George H. Blagrove. is. 6d. [Justpublished. 265. THE AR T OF PR A CTICA L BRICK CUTTING ^ SETTING. By Adam Hammond. With 90 Engravings, is. 6d. [fust published. 267. THE SCIENCE OF BUILDING: An Elementary Treatise on the Principles of Construction. Adapted to the Requirements of Architec- tural Students. By E. Wyndham Tarn, M.A. Lond. Third Edition, Revised and Enlarged. With 59 Wood Engravings. 3s. 6d.t [ Just published. SHIPBUILDING, NAVIGATION, MARINE ENGINEERING, ETC. 51. NAVAL ARCHITECTURE. An Exposition of the Elementary Principles of the Science, and their Practical Application to Naval Construc- tion. By J. Peake. Fifth Edition, with Plates and Diagrams. 3s. 6d4 53*. SHIPS FOR OCEAN & RIVER SER VICE, Elementary and Practical Principles of the Construction of. By H. A. Sommerfeldt. is. 6d. 53**. AN ATLAS OF ENGRA VINGS to Illustrate the above. Twelve large folding plates. Royal 4to, cloth. 7s. 6d. 54. MASTING, MAST-MAKING, AND RIGGING OF SHIPS, Also Tables of Spars, Rigging, Blocks; Chain, Wire, and Hemp Ropes, &c., relative to every class of vessels. By Robert Kipping, N.A. 2s. 54*. IRON SHIP-BUILDING. With Practical Examples and Detail-. By John Grantham, C.E. 5th Edition. 4s. The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.WEALE’S RUDIMENTARY SERIES. 7 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE HILL, F..C. Shipbuilding, Navigation, Marine Engineering, etc., cont. 55. THE SAILOR’S SEA BOOK: a Rudimentary Treatise on Navigation. By James Greenwood, B.A. With numerous Woodcuts and Coloured Plates. New and enlarged edition. By W. H. Rosser. 2s. 6d.t 80. MARINE ENGINES AND STEAM VESSELS. By Robert Murray, C.E. Eighth Edition, thoroughly Revised, with Additions by the Author and by George Carlisle, C.E., Senior Surveyor to the Board of Trade, Liverpool. 4s. 6d. limp ; 5s. cloth boards. 8$bis. THE FORMS OF SHIPS AND BOATS. By W. Bland. Seventh Edition, Revised, with numerous Illustrations and Models, is. 6d. 99. NAVIGATION AND NAUTICAL ASTRONOMY, in Theory and Practice. By Prof. J. R. Young. New Edition. 2s. 6d. 106. SHIPS’ ANCHORS, a Treatise on. By G. Cotsell, N.A. is. 6d. 149. SAILS AND SAIL-MAKING. With Draughting, and the Centre of Effort of the Sails ; Weights and Sizes of Ropes ; Masting, Rigging, and Sails of Steam Vessels, &c. 12th Edition. By R. Kipping, N.A., 2s. 6d.i 155. ENGINEER’S GUIDE TO THE ROYAL <5r- MERCANTILE NAVIES. By a Practical Engineer. Revised by D. F. M'Carthy. 3s. 55 PRACTICAL NAVIGATION. Consisting of The Sailor’s & Sea-Book. By James Greenwood and W. H. Rosser. Together with the requisite Mathematical and Nautical Tables for the Working of the Problems. By H. Law, C.E., and Prof. J. R. Young. 7s. Half-bound. AGRICULTURE, GARDENING, ETC. bi*.A COMPLETE READY RECKONER FOR THE ADMEA- SUREMENT OF LAND, &c. By A. Arman. Third Edition, revised and extended by C. Norris, Surveyor, Valuer, &c. 2s. 131. MILLER’S, CORN MERCHANT’S, AND FARMER’S READY RECKONER. Second Edition, with a Price List of Modern Flour-Mill Machinery, by W. S. Hutton, C.E. 2s. 140. SOILS, MANURES, AND CROPS. (Vol. 1. Outlines of Modern Farming.) By R. Scott Burn. Woodcuts. 2s. 141. FARMING <5p FARMING ECONOMY, Notes, Historical and Practical, on. (Vol. 2. Outlines of Modern Farming.) ByR. Scott Burn. 3s. 142. STOCK; CATTLE, SHEEP, AND HORSES. (Vol. 3. Outlines of Modern Farming.) ByR. Scott Burn. Woodcuts. 2s. 6d. 145. DAIRY, PIGS, AND POULTRY, Management of the. By R. Scott Burn. (Vol. 4. Outlines of Modern Farming.) 2s. 146. UTILIZATION OF SEWAGE, IRRIGATION, AND RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND. (Vol. 5. Outlines of Modern Farming.) By R. Scott Burn. Woodcuts. 2s. 6d. %* Nos. 140-1-2-5-6, in One Vol., handsomely half-bound, entitled “ Outlines of Modern Farming.” By Robert Scott Burn. Price 12$. 177, FRUIT TREES, The Scientific and Profitable Culture of. From the French of Du Breuil. Revised by Geo. Glenny. 187 Woodcuts. 3s. 6d.t 198. SHEEP; THE HISTOR Y, STRUCTURE, ECONOMY, AND DISEASES OF. By W. C. Spooner, M.R.V.C., &c. Fifth Edition, enlarged, including Specimens ot New and Improved Breeds. 3s. 6d.t 201. KITCHEN GARDENING MADE EASY. By George M. F. Glenny. Illustrated, is. 6d.i 207. OUTLINES OF FARM MANAGEMENT, and the Organi- zation of Farm Labour. By R. Scott Burn. 2s. 6d.t 208. OUTLINES OF LANDED ESTATES MANAGEMENT. By R. Scott Burn. 2s. 6d.t **,* Nos. 207 <5>» 208 in One Vol., handsomely half-bound, entitled “ Outlines of Landed Estates and Farm Management.” By R. Scott Burn. Price 6s. The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.weale’s rudimentary series. 8 LONDON : CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON. Agriculture, Gardening, etc., continued. 209. THE TREE PLANTER AND PLANT PROPAGATOR. A Practical Manual on the Propagation of Forest Trees, Fruit Trees, Flowering Shrubs, Flowering Plants, &c. By Samuel Wood. 2s4 210. THE TREE PRUNER. A Practical Manual on the Pruning of Fruit Trees, including also their Training and Renovation ; also the Pruning of Shrubs, Climbers, and Flowering Plants. By Samuel Wood. 2s.t *** Nos. 209 <&•* 210 in One Vol., handsomely half-bound, entitled “The Tree Planter, Propagator, and Pruner.” By Samuel Wood. Price 5$. 218. THE HA Y AND STRA W MEASURER : Being New Tables for the Use of Auctioneers, Valuers, Farmers, Hay and Straw Dealers, &c. By John Steele. Fourth Edition. 2s. 222. SUBURBAN FARMING. The Laying-out and Cultivation of Farms, adapted to the Produce of Milk, Butter, and Cheese, Eggs, Poultry, and Pigs. By Prof. John Donaldson and R. Scott Burn. 3s. 6d.t 231. THE ART OF GRAFTING AND BUDDING. By Charles Bali et. With Illustrations. 2s. 6d.t 232. COTTAGE GARDENING; or, Flowers, Fruits, and Vegetables for Small Gardens. By E. Hobday, is. 6d. 233. GARDEN RECEIPTS. Edited by Charles W. Quin. is. 6d. *34. MARKET AND KITCHEN GARDENING. By C. W. Shaw, ‘late Editor of “ Gardening Illustrated.” 3s.t [fust published. 239. DRAINING AND EMBANKING. A Practical Treatise, em- bodying the most recent experience in the Application of Improved Methods. By John Scott, late Professor of Agriculture and Rural Economy at the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester. With 68 Illustrations, is. 6d. 240. IRRIGATION AND WATER SUPPLY. A Treatise on Water Meadows, Sewage Irrigation, and Warping; the Construction of Wells, Ponds, and Reservoirs, &c. By Prof. John Scott. With 34 lllus. is. 6d. 241. FARM ROADS, FENCES, AND GATES. A Practical Treatise on the Roads, Tramways, and Waterways of the Farm; the Principles of Enclosures; and the different kinds of Fences, Gates, and Stiles. By Professor John Scott. With 75 Illustrations, is. 6d. 242. FARM BUILDINGS. A Practical Treatise on the Buildings necessary for various kinds of Farms, their Arrangement and Construction, with Plans and Estimates. By Prof. John Scott. With 105 lllus. 2s. 243. BARN IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINES. A Practical Treatise on the Application of Power to the Operations of Agriculture ; and on various Machinesused in the Threshing-barn, in the Stock-yard, and in the Dairy, &c. By Prof. J. Scott. With 123 Illustrations. 2s. 244. FIELD IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINES. A Practical Treatise on the Varieties now in use, with Principles and Details of Con- struction, their Points of Excellence, and Management. By Professor John Scott. With 138 Illustrations. 2s. 245. AGRICULTURAL SURVEYING. A Practical Treatise on Land Surveying, Levelling, and Setting-out; and on Measuring and Esti- mating Quantities, Weights, and Values of Materials, Produce, Stock, &c. By Prof. John Scott. With 62 Illustrations, is. 6d. IVos. 239 to 245 in One Vol., handsomely half-bound, entitled “ The Complete Text-Book of Farm Engineering.” By Professor John Scott. Price 12s. 750. MEAT PRODUCTION. A Manual for Producers, Distributors, &c. By John Ewart. 2s. 6d.t 266. BOOK-KEEPING FOR FARMERS & ESTATE OWNERS. By J. M. Woodman, Chartered Accountant. 2s. 6d. cloth limp; 3s. 6d. cloth boards. [Just published. The 4 indicates that these no Is. may be had strongly bound at 6 d. extra.9 WEALE'S RUDIMENTARY SERIES. 7, stationers' hall court, ludgate hill, E.C. MATHEMATICS, ARITHMETIC, ETC. 32. MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS, a Treatise on; Their Construction, Adjustment, Testing, and Use concisely Explained. By J. F. Heather, M.A. Fourteenth Edition, revised, with additions, by A. T, Walmisley, M.I.C.E., Fellow of the Surveyors’ Institution. Original Edi- tion, in 1 vol., Illustrated. 2S.t (Justpublished. In ordering the above, be careful to say, “ Original Edition ” (No. 32), to distin- guish it from the Enlarged Edition in 3 vols. (Nos. 168-9-70.) 76. DESCRIPTIVE GEOMETRY, an Elementary Treatise on ; with a Theory of Shadows and of Perspective, extracted from the French of G. Monge. To which is added, a description of the Principles and Practice of Isometrical Projection. By J. F. Heather, M.A. With 14 Plates. 2s 178. PRACTICAL PLANE GEOMETRY: giving the Simplest Modes of Constructing Figures contained in one Plane and Geometrical Con- struction of the Ground. By J. F. Heather, M.A. With 215 Woodcuts. 2s. 83. COMMERCIAL BOOK-KEEPING. With Commercial Phrases and Forms in English, French, Italian, and German. By James Haddon, M.A., Arithmetical Master of King’s College School, London, is. 6d. 84. ARITHMETIC, a Rudimentary Treatise on: with full Explana- tions of its Theoretical Principles, and numerous Examples for Practice. By Professor J. R. Young. Eleventh Edition, is. 6d. 84*. A Key to the above, containing Solutions in full to the Exercises, together with Comments, Explanations, and Improved Processes, for the Use of Teachers and Unassisted Learners. By J. R. Young, is. 6d. 85. EQUATIONAL ARITHMETIC, applied to Questions of Interest, Annuities, Life Assurance, and General Commerce ; with various Tables by which all Calculations may be greatly facilitated. By W. Hipsley. 2s. 86. ALGEBRA, the Elements of. By James Haddon, M.A. With Appendix, containing miscellaneous Investigations, and a Collection of Problems in various parts of Algebra. 2s. 86*. A Key and Companion to the above Book, forming an extensive repositoi^ of Solved Examples and Problems in Illustration of the various Expedients necessary in Algebraical Operations. By J. R. Young, is. 6d. 88. EUCLID, The Elements of : with many additional Propositions 89. and Explanatory Notes: to which is prefixed, an Introductory Essay on Logic. By Henry Law, C.E. 2s. 6d.J *** Sold also separately, viz. :— 88. Euclid, The First Three Books. By Henry Law, C.E. is. 6d. 89. Euclid, Books 4, 5, 6, 11, 12. By Henry Law, C.E. is. 6d. 90. ANALYTICAL GEOMETRY AND CONIC SECTIONS, By James Hann. A New Edition, by Professor J. R. Young. 2s.f 91. PLANE TRIGONOMETRY, the Elements of. By James Hann, formerly Mathematical Master of King’s College, London, is. 6d. 92. SPHERICAL TRIGONOMETRY, the Elements of. By James Hann. Revised by Charles H. Dowling, C.E. is. *** Or with “ The Elements of Plane Trigonometry,” in One Volume, 2s. 6d. 93. MENSURATION AND MEASURING. With the Mensuration and Levelling of Land for the Purposes of Modern Engineering. By T. Baker, C.E. New Edition by E. Nugent, C.E. Illustrated, is. 6d. 101. DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS, Elements of the. By W. S. B. Woolhouse, F.R.A.S., &c. is. 6d. 102. INTEGRAL CALCULUS, Rudimentary Treatise on the. By Homersham Cox, B.A. Illustrated, is. 136. ARITHMETIC, Rudimentary, for the Use of Schools and Self- Instruction. By James Haddon, M.A. Revised by A. Arman, is. 6d. 137. A Key to Haddon’s Rudimentary Arithmetic. By A. Arman, is. 6d. The ± indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.IO WEALE’S RUDIMENTARY SERIES. LONDON : CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, Mathematics, Arithmetic, etc., continued. 168. DRAWING AND MEASURING INSTRUMENTS. Includ- ing—-I. Instruments employed in Geometrical and Mechanical Drawing, and in the Construction, Copying, and Measurement of Maps and Plans. II. Instruments used for the purposes of Accurate Measurement, and for Arithmetical Computations. By J. F. Heather, M.A. Illustrated, is. 6d 169. OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS. Including (more especially) Tele- scopes, Microscopes, and Apparatus for producing copies of Maps and Plans by Photography. By J. F. Heather, M.A. Illustrated, is. 6d. 170. SURVEYING AND ASTRONOMICAL INSTRUMENTS. Including—I. Instruments Used for Determining the Geometrical Features of a portion of Ground. II. Instruments Employed in Astronomical Observa- tions. By J. F. Heather, M.A. Illustrated, is. 6d. The above three volumes form an enlargement of the Author’s original vuork “Mathematical Instruments.” (See No. 32 in the Series.) 168. |MATHEMATICAL INSTRUMENTS. By J. F. Heather, 169. £ M.A. Enlarged Edition, for the most part entirely re-written. The 3 Parts as 170.7 above, in One thick Volume. With numerous Illustrations. 4s. 6d.f 158. THE SLIDE RULE, AND HOW TO USE IT; containing full, easy, and simple Instructions to perform all Business Calculations with unexampled rapidity and accuracy. By Charles Hoare, C.E. Fifth Edition. With a Slide Rule in tuck of cover. 2s. 6d.t 196. THEORY OF COMPOUND INTEREST AND ANNUI- TIES ; with Tables of Logarithms for the more Difficult Computations of Interest, Discount, Annuities, &c. By F6dor Thoman. 4s.$ 199. THE COMPENDIOUS CALCULATOR ; or, Easy and Concise Methods of Performing the various Arithmetical Operations required in Commercial and Business Transactions ; together with Useful Tables. By D. O’Gorman. Twenty-seventh Edition, carefully revised by C. Norris. 2S 6d., cloth limp ; 3s. 6d., strongly half-bound in leather. 204. MATHEMATICAL TABLES, lor Trigonometrical, Astronomical, and Nautical Calculations ; to which is prefixed a Treatise on Logarithms. By Henry Law, C.E. Together with a Series of Tables for Navigation and Nautical Astronomy. By Prof. J. R. Young. New Edition. 4s. 204*. LOGARITHMS. With Mathematical Tables for Trigonometrical, Astronomical, and Nautical Calculations. By Henry Law, M.Inst.C.E. New and Revised Edition. (Forming part of the above Work). 3s. 221. MEASURES, WEIGHTS, AND MONEYS OF ALL NA- TIONS, and an Analysis of the Christian, Hebrew, and Mahometan Calendars. By W. S. B. Woolhouse, F.R.A.S., F.S.S. Sixth Edition. 2s.t 227. MATHEMATICS AS APPLIED TO THE CONSTRUC- TIVE ARTS. Illustrating the various processes of Mathematical Investi- gation, by means of Arithmetical and Simple Algebraical Equations and Practical Examples. Bv Francis Campin. C.E. Second Edition. 3s.t PHYSICAL SCIENCE, NATURAL PHILO- SOPHY, ETC. 1 .CHEMISTRY. By Professor George Fownes, F.R.S. With an Appendix on the Application of Chemistry to Agriculture, is. 2. NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, Introduction to the Study of. By C. Tomlinson. Woodcuts, is. 6d. 6. MECHANICS, Rudimentary Treatise on. By Charles Tom- linson. Illustrated, is. 6d. 7. ELECTRICITY; showing the General Principles ol Electrical Science, and the purposes to which it has been applied. By Sir W. Snow Harris, F.R.S., &c. With Additions by R. Sabine, C.E., F.S.A. is. 6d. 7*. GAL VANISM. By Sir W. Snow Harris. New Edition by Robert Sabine, C.E., F.S.A. is. 6d. 8. MAGNETISM; being a concise Exposition of the General Prin- ciples of Magnetical Science. By Sir W. Snow Harris. New Edition, revised by H. M. Noad, Ph.D. With 163 Woodcuts. 3s. 6d.f ggpp 1 he X indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at bd. extra.WEALE'S RUDIMENTARY SERIES. I I 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE HILL, E.C. Physical Science, Natural Philosophy, etc., continued. 11. THE ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH; its History and Progress; with Descriptions of some of the Apparatus. By R. Sabine, C.E., F.S.A. 3s. 12. PNEUMATICS, including Acoustics and the Phenomena of Wind Currents, for the Use of Beginners By Charles Tomlinson, F.R.S. Fourth Edition, enlarged. Illustrated, is. 6d. \Just published. 72. MANUAL OF THE MOLLUSCA; a Treatise on Recent and Fossil Shells. By Dr. S. P. Woodward, A.L.S. Fourth Edition. With Appendix by Ralph Tate, A.L.S., F.G.S. With numerous Plates and 300 Woodcuts. 6s. 6d. Cloth boards, 7s. 6d. 96. ASTRONOMY. By the late Rev. Robert Main, M.A. Third Edition, by William Thynne Lynn, B.A., F.R.A.S. 2s. 97. STATICS AND DYNAMICS, the Principles and Practice of; embracing also a civar development of Hydrostatics, Hydrodynamics, and Central Forces. By T. Baker, C.E. Fourth Edition, is. 6d. 138. TELEGRAPH, Handbook of the; a Guide to Candidates for Employment in the Telegraph Service. By R. Bond. 3s.f 173. PHYSICAL GEOLOGY, partly based on Major-General Port- lock’s “ Rudiments of Geology.” By Ralph Tate, A.L.S.,&c. Woodcuts. 2s. 174. HISTORICAL GEOLOGY, partly based on Major-General Portlock’s “Rudiments.” By Ralph Tate, A.L.S., &c. Woodcuts. 2s. 6d. 173 RUDIMENTARY TREATISE ON GEOLOGY, Physical and & Historical. Partly based on Major-General Portlock’s “ Rudiments of 174. Geology.” By Ralph Tate, A.L.S., F.G.S., &c. In One Volume. 4s. 6d.t 183 ANIMAL PHYSICS, Handbook of. By Dr. Lardner, D.C.L., & formerly Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in University l8d College, Loud. With 520 Illustrations. In One Vol. 7s. 6d., cloth boards. *** Sold also in Two Parts, as follows :— 183. Animal Physics. By Dr. Lardner. Part I., Chapters I.—VII. 4s. 184. Animal Physics. By Dr. Lardner. Part II., Chapters VIII.—XVIII. 3s. FINE ARTS. 20. PERSPECTIVE FOR BEGINNERS. Adapted to Young Students and Amateurs in Architecture, Painting, &c. By George Pyne. 2s. 40 GLASS STAINING, AND THE ART OF PAINTING ON GLASS. From the German of Dr. Gessert and Emanuel Otto From- berg. With an Appendix on The Art of Enamelling. 2s. 6d. 69. MUSIC, A Rudimentary and Practical Treatise on. With numerous Examples. By Charles Child Spencer. 2s. 6d. 71. PIANOFORTE, The Art of Playing the. With numerous Exer- cises & Lessons from the Best Masters. By Charles Child Spencer. is.6d. 69-71. MUSIC 6- THE PIANOFORTE. In one vol. Half bound, 5s. 181. PAINTING POPULARLY EXPLAINED, including Fresco, Oil, Mosaic, Water Colour, Water-Glass, Tempera, Encaustic, Miniature, Painting on Ivory, Vellum, Pottery, Enamel, Glass, &c. With Historical Sketches of the Progress of the Art by Thomas John Gullick, assisted by John Timbs, F.S.A. Fifth Edition, revised and enlarged. 5s.t 186. A GRAMMAR OF COLOURING, applied tc Decorative Painting and the Arts. By George Field. New Edition, enlarged and adapted to the Use of the Ornamental Painter and Designer. By Ellis A, Davidson. With two new Coloured Diagrams, &c. 3s.t 246. A DICTIONARY OF PAINTERS, AND HANDBOOK FOR PICTURE AMATEURS; including Methods of Painting, Cleaning, Re- lining and Restoring, Schools of Painting-, &c. With Notes on the Copyists and Imitators of each Master. By Philippe Daryl. 2s. 6d.J gslf* The t indicates that these vols. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.I 2 weale’s rudimentary series. LONDON I CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON. INDUSTRIAL AND USEFUL ARTS. 23. BRICKS AND TILES, Rudimentary Treatise on the Manufac- ture of. By E. Dobson, M.R.I.B.A. Illustrated,3s.t 67. CLOCKS, WATCHES, AND BELLS, a Rudimentary Treatise on. By Sir Edmund Beckett, LL.D., Q.C. Seventh Edition, revised and en- larged. 4s. 6d. limp; 5s. 6d. cloth boards. 83**. CONSTRUCTION OF DOOR LOCKS. Compiled from the Papers of A. C. Hobbs, and Edited by Charles Tomlinson. F.R.S. 2s. 6d. 162. THE BRASS FOUNDER'S MANUAL; Instructions for Modelling, Pattern-Making, Moulding, Turning, Filing, Burnishing, Bronzing, &c. With copious Receipts, &c. By Walter Graham. 2s.t 205. THE ART OF LETTER PAINTING MADE EASY. By J. G. Badenoch. Illustrated with 12 full-page Engravings of Examples, is. 6d- 215. THE GOLDSMITHS HANDBOOK, containing full Instruc- tions for the Alloying and Working of Gold. By George E. Gee, 3s.i1 225. THE SILVERSMITHS HANDBOOK, containing full In- structions for the Alloying and Working of Silver. By George E. Gee. 3s.i *** The two preceding Works, in One handsome Vol., half-bound, entitled “The Goldsmith’s & Silversmith’s Complete Handbook,” 7s. 249. THE HALL-MARKING OF JEWELLERY PRACTICALLY CONSIDERED. By George E. Gee. 3s.1t 224. COACH BUILDING, A Practical Treatise, Historical and Descriptive. By J. W. Burgess. 2s. 6d.i 235. PRACTICAL ORGAN BUILDING. By W. E. Dickson, M.A., Precentor of Ely Cathedral. Illustrated. 2s. 6d.f 262. THE ART OF BOOT AND SHOEMAKING, including Measurement, 'Last-fitting, Cutting-out, Closing and Making. By John Bedford Leno. Numerous Illustrations. Third Edition. 2s. 263. MECHANICAL DENTISTRY: A Practical Treatise on the Construction of the Various Kinds of Artificial Dentures, with Formulas, Tables, Receipts, &c. By Charles Hunter. Third Edition. 3s.t MISCELLANEOUS VOLUMES. 36. A DICTIONARY OF TERMS used in ARCHITECTURE, BUILDING, ENGINEERING, MINING, METALLURGY, ARCHE- OLOGY, the FINE ARTS, &*c. By John Weale. Fifth Edition. Revised by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. Illustrated. 5s. limp ; 6s. cloth boards. 50. THE LAW OF CONTRACTS FOR WORKS AND SER- VICES. By David Gibbons. Third Edition, enlarged. 3s.if 112. MANUAL OF DOMESTIC MEDICINE. By R. Gooding, B.A., M.D. A Family Guide in all Cases of Accident'and Emergency. 2s.i 112*. MANAGEMENT OF HEALTH. A Manual of Home and Personal Hygiene. By the Rev. James Baird, B.A. is. 150. LOGIC, Pure and Applied. By S. H. Emmens. is. 6d. 153. SELECTIONS FROM LOCKE'S ESSAYS ON THE HUMAN UNDERSTANDING. With Notes by S. H. Emmens. 2s. 154. GENERAL HINTS TO EMIGRANTS. 2s. 157. THE EMIGRANTS GUIDE TO NATAL. By Robert James Mann, F.R.A.S., F.M.S. Second Edition. Map. 2s. 193. HANDBOOK OF FIELD FORTIFICATION. By Major W. W. Knollys, F.R.G.S. With 163 Woodcuts. 3s.1t 194. THE HOUSE MANAGER : Being a Guide to Housekeeping. Practical Cookery, Pickling and Preserving, Household Work, Dairy Management, &c. By An Old Housekeeper. 3s. 6d.± i94> HOUSE BOOK (The). Comprising I. The House Manager. II2& By an Old Housekeeper. II. Domestic Medicine. By R. Gooding, M.D. j 12*. III. Management of Health. By J. Baird. In One Vol., half-bound, 6s. 6^* The J indicates that these vois. may be had strongly bound at 6d. extra.weale's educational and classical series. 13 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE HILL, E.C. EDUCATIONAL AND CLASSICAL SERIES. HISTORY. 1. England, Outlines of the History of; more especially with reference to the Origin and Progress of the English Constitution. By William Douglas Hamilton, F.S.A., of Her Majesty’s Public Record Office. 4th Edition, revised. 5s.; cloth boards, 6s. 5. Greece, Outlines of the History of; in connection with the Rise of the Arts and Civilization in Europe. By W. Douglas Hamilton, of University College, London, and Edward Levien, M.A., of Balliol College, Oxford. 2s. 6d.; cloth boards, 3s. 6d. 7. Rome, Outlines of the History of: from the Earliest Period to the Christian Era and the Commencement of the Decline of the Empire. By Edward Levien, of Balliol College, Oxford. Map, 2s. 6d.; cl. bds. 3s. 6d, 9. Chronology of History, Art, Literature, and Progress, from the Creation of the World to the Present Time. The Continuation by W. D. Hamilton, F.S.A. 3s.; cloth boards, 3s. 6d. 50. Dates and Events in English History, for the use of Candidates in Public and Private Examinations. By the Rev. E. Rand. is. ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND MISCELLANEOUS. 11. Grammar of the English Tongue, Spoken and Written. With an Introduction to the Study of Comparative Philology. By Hyde Clarke, D.G.L. Fourth Edition, is. 6d. 12. Dictionary of the English Language, as Spoken and Written. Containing above 100,000 Words. By Hyde Clarke, D.C.L. 3s. 6d.; cloth boards, 4s. 6d.; complete with the Grammar, cloth bds., 5s. 6d. 48. Composition and Punctuation, familiarly Explained for those who have neglected the Study of Grammar. By Justin Brenan. 18th Edition, is. 6d. 49. Derivative Spelling-Book.: Giving the Origin of Every Word from the Greek, Latin, Saxon, German, Teutonic, Dutch, French, Spanish, and other Languages; with their present Acceptation and Pronunciation. By J. Rowbotham, F.R.A.S. Improved Edition, is. 6d. 51. The Art of Extempore Speaking: Hints for the Pulpit, the Senate, and the Bar. By M. Bautain, Vicar-General and Professor at the Sorbonne. Translated from the French. 8th Edition, carefully corrected. 2s.6d. 53. Places and Facts in Political and Physical Geography, for Candidates in Examinations. By the Rev. Edgar Rand, B.A. is. 54- Analytical Chemistry, Qualitative and Quantitative, a Course of. To which is prefixed, a Brief Treatise upon Modern Chemical Nomencla- ture and Notation. By Wm. W. Pink and George E. Webster. 2s. THE SCHOOL MANAGERS’ SERIES OF READING BOOKS, Edited by the Rev. A. R. Grant, Rector of Hitcham, and Honorary Canon of Ely; formerly H.M. Inspector of Schools. Introductory Primer, 3d. First Standard Second ,, Third „ x. d. o 6 Fourth Standard 0 10 Fifth „ 1 o Sixth ,, Lessons from the Bible. Part I. Old Testament, is. s. d. 1 2 1 6 1 6 Lessons from the Bible. Part II. New Testament, to which is added The Geography of the Bible, for very young Children. By Rev. C. Thornton Forster, is. 2d. *** Or the Two Parts in One Volume. 2s.weale’s educational and classical series. 14 LONDON : CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, FRENCH. 24. French Grammar. With Complete and Concise Rules on the Genders of French Nouns. By G. L. Strauss, Ph.D. is. 6d. 25. French-English Dictionary. Comprising a large number of New Terms used in Engineering, Mining, &c. By Alfred Elwes. is. 6d. 26. English-French Dictionary. By Alfred Elwes. 2s. 25,26. French Dictionary (as above). Complete, in One Vol., 3s. ; cloth boards, 3s. 6d. *** Or with the Grammar, cloth boards, 4s. 6d. 47. French and English Phrase Book : containing Intro- ductory Lessons, with Translations, several Vocabularies of Words, a Col- lection of suitable Phrases, and Easy Familiar Dialogues, is. 6d. GERMAN. 39. German Grammar. Adapted for English Students, from Heyse’s Theoretical and Practical Grammar, by Dr. G. L. Strauss, is. 6d. 40. German Reader: A Series of Extracts, carefully culled from the most approved Authors of Germany; with Notes, Philological and Ex- planatory. By G. L. Strauss, Ph.D. is. 41-43. German Triglot Dictionary. By N. E. S. A. Hamilton. In Three Parts. Part I. German-French-English. Part II. English-Ger- man-French. Part III. French-German-English. 3s., or cloth boards, 4s. 41-43 German Triglot Dictionary (as above), together with German & 39. Grammar (No. 39), in One Volume, cloth boards, 5s. ITALIAN. 27. Italian Grammar, arranged in Twenty Lessons, with a Course of Exercises. By Alfred Elwes. is. 6d. 28. Italian Triglot Dictionary, wherein the Genders of all the Italian and French Nouns are carefully noted down. By Alfred Elwes. Vol. 1. Italian-English-French. 2s. 6d. 30. Italian Triglot Dictionary. By A. Elwes. Vol. 2. English-French-Italian. 2s. 6d. 32. Italian Triglot Dictionary. By Alfred Elwes. Vol. 3. French-Italian-English. 2S. 6d. 28,30, Italian Triglot Dictionary (as above). In One Vol., 7s. 6d 32. Cloth boards. SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE. 34. Spanish Grammar, in a Simple and Practical Form. With a Course of Exercises. By Alfred Elwes. is. 6d. 35. Spanish-English and English-Spanisb Dictionary. Including a large number of Technical Terms used in Mining, Engineering, &c. with the proper Accents and the Gender of every Noun. By Alfred Elwes 4s. ; cloth boards, 5s. *** Or with the Grammar, cloth boards, 6s. 55. Portuguese Grammar, in a Simple and Practical Form. With a Course of Exercises. By Alfred Elwes. is. 6d. 56. Portuguese-English and English-Portuguese Dic- tionary. Including a large number of Technical Terms used in Mining, Engineering, &c., with the proper Accents and the Gender of every Noun. By Alfred Elwes. Second Edition, Revised, 5s.; cloth boards, 6s. * Or with the Grammar, cloth boards, 7s. HEBREW. 46*. Hebrew Grammar. By Dr. Bresslau. is. 6d. 44. Hebrew and English Dictionary, Biblical and Rabbinical; containing the Hebrew and Chaldee Roots of the Old Testament Post- Rabbinical Writings. By Dr. Bresslau. 6s. 46. English and Hebrew Dictionary. By Dr. Bressia.u. 3s. H>46. Hebrew Dictionary (as above), in Two Vols., complete, with 46*. the Grammar, cloth boards, 12s.WEALE’S EDUCATIONAL AND CLASSICAL SERIES. 7, STATIONERS’ HALL COURT, LUDGATE HILL, E.C. *5 LATIN. 19. Latin Grammar. Containing the Inflections and Elementary Principles of Translation and Construction. By the Rev. Thomas Goodwin, M.A., Head Master of the Greenwich Proprietary School, is. 6d. 20. Latin-English Dictionary. By the Rev. Thomas Goodwin, M.A. 2s. 22. English-Latin Dictionary; together with an Appendix of French and Italian Words which have their origin from the Latin. By the Rev. Thomas Goodwin, M.A. is. 6d. 20,22. Latin Dictionary (as above). Complete in One Vol., 3s. 6d. cloth boards, 4s. 6d. *** Or with the Grammar, cloth boards, 5s. 6d. LATIN CLASSICS. With Explanatory Notes in English. 1. Latin Delectus. Containing Extracts from Classical Authors, with Genealogical Vocabularies and Explanatory Notes, by H. Young, is. 6d. 2. Csesaris Commentarii de Bello Gallico. Notes, and a Geographical Register for the Use of Schools, by H. Young. 2s. 3. Cornelius Nepos. With Notes. By H. Young, is. 4. Virgilii Maronis Bucolica et Georgica. With Notes on the Buco- lics by W. Rushton, M.A., and on the Georgies by H. Young, is. 6d. 5. Virgilii Maronis iEneis. With Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by H. Young. New Edition, revised and improved With copious Addi- tional Notes by Rev. T. H. L. Leary, D.C.L., lormerly Scholar of Brasenose College, Oxford. 3s. 5* Part 1. Books i.—vi., is. 6d. 5** Part 2. Books vii.—xii., 2s. 6. Horace; Odes, Epode, and Carmen Sseculare. Notes by H. Young, is. 6d. 7. Horace; Satires, Epistles, and Ars Poetica. Notes by W. Brown- rigg Smith, M.A., F.R.G.S. is. 6d. 8. Sallustii Crispi Catalina et Bellum Jugurthinum. Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by W. M. Donne, B.A., Trin. Coll., Cam. is. 6d. 9. Terentii Andria et Heautontimorumenos. With Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by the Rev. James Davies, M.A. is. 6d. 10. Terentii Adelphi, Hecyra, Phormio. Edited, with Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by the Rev. James Davies, M.A. 2s. 11. Terentii Eunuchus, Comoedia. Notes, by Rev. J. Davies, M.A. is. 6d. 12. Ciceronis Oratio pro Sexto Roscio Amerino. Edited, with an Introduction, Analysis, and Notes, Explanatory and Critical, by the Rev. James Davies, M.A. is. 6d. 13. Ciceronis Orationes in Catilinam, Verrem, et pro Archia. With Introduction, Analysis, and Notes, Explanatory and Critical, by Rev. T. H. L. Leary, D.C.L. formerly Scholar of Brasenose College, Oxford, is. 6d. 14. Ciceronis Cato Major, Laelius, Brutus, sive de Senectute, de Ami- citia, de Claris Oratoribus Dialogi. With Notes by W. Brownrigg Smith M.A., F.R.G.S. as. 16. Livy : History of Rome. Notes bv H. Young and W. B. Smith, M.A. Part 1. Books i., ii., is. 6d. 16*. Part 2. Books iii., iv.t v., is. 6d. 17. Part 3. Books xxi., xxii., is. 6d. 19. Latin Verse Selections, from Catullus, Tibullus, Propertius, and Ovid. Notes by W. B. Donne, M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge. 2s. 20. Latin Prose Selections, from Varro, Columella, Vitruvius, Seneca, Quintilian, Florus, Velleius Paterculus, Valerius Maximus Sueto- nius, Apuleius, &c. Notes by W. B. Donne, M.A. 2s. 21. Juvenalis Satirse. With Prolegomena and Notes by T. H. S. Escott, B.A-, Lecturer on Logic at King’s College, London. 2s.r 6 weale’s educational and classical series. GREEK. 14. Greek Grammar, in accordance with the Principles and Philo- logical Researches of the most eminent Scholars of our own day. By Hans Claude Hamilton, is. 6d. 15,17. Greek Lexicon. Containing all the Words in General Use, with their Significations, Inflections, and Doubtful Quantities. By Henry R. Hamilton. Vol. 1. Greek-English, 2s. 6d.; Vol. 2. English-Greek, 2s. Or the Two Vols. in One, 4s. 6d.: cloth boards, 5s'. 14,15. Greek Lexicon (as above). Complete, with the Grammar, in 17. One Vol., cloth boards, 6s. GREEK CLASSICS. With Explanatory Notes in English. 1. Greek Delectus. Containing Extracts from Classical Authors, with Genealogical Vocabularies and Explanatory Notes, byH. Young. New Edition, with an improved and enlarged Supplementary Vocabulary, by John Hutchison, M.A., of the High School, Glasgow, is. 6d. 2, 3. Xenophon’s Anabasis; or, The Retreat of the Ten Thousand. Notes and a Geographical Register, by H. Young. Part 1. Books i. to iii., is. Part 2. Books iv. to vii., is. 4. Lucian’s Select Dialogues. The Text carefully revised, with Grammatical and Explanatory Notes, by H. Young, is. 6d. 5-12. Homer, The Works of. According to the Text of Baeumlein. With Notes, Critical and Explanatory, drawn from the best and latest Authorities, with Preliminary Observations and Appendices, by T. H. L. Leary, M.A., D.C.L. The Iliad : Part 1. Books i. to vi., is.6d. Part 3. Books xiii. to xviii., is. 6d. Part 2. Books vii. to xii., is.6d. Part 4. Books xix. to xxiv., is. 6d. The Odyssey: Parti. Books i. to vi., is. 6d Part 3. Books xiii. to xviii., is. 6d. Part 2. Books vii. to xii., is. 6d. Part 4. Books xix. to xxiv., and Hymns, 2s. 13. Plato’s Dialogues: The Apology of Socrates, the Crito, and the Plisedo. Erom the Text of C. F. Hermann. Edited with Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by the Rev. James Davies, M.A. 2s. 14-17. Herodotus, The History of, chiefly after the Text of Gaisford. With Preliminary Observations and Appendices, and Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by T. H. L. Leary, M.A., D.C.L. Part 1. Books i., ii. (The Clio and Euterpe), 2s. Part 2. Books iii., iv. (The Thalia and Melpomene), 2s. Part 3. Books v.-vii. (The Terpsichore, Erato, and Polymnia), 2s. Part 4. Books viii., ix. (The Urania and Calliope) and Index, is. 6d. 18. Sophocles : CEdipus Tyrannus. Notes by H. Young, is. 20. Sophocles: Antigone. From the Text of Dindorf. Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by the Rev. John Milner, B.A. 2s. 23. Euripides: Hecuba and Medea. Chiefly from the Text of Din- dorf. With Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by W. Brownrigg Smith, M.A., F.R.G.S. is. 6d. 26. Euripides: Alcestis. Chiefly from the Text of Dindorf. With Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by John Milner, B.A. is. 6d. 30. ^Eschylus : Prometheus Vinctus : The Prometheus Bound. From the Text of Dindorf. Edited, with English Notes, Critical and Explanatory, by the Rev. James Davies, M.A. is. 32. uEschylus : Septem Contra Thebes : The Seven against Thebes. From the Text of Dindorf. Edited, with English Notes, Critical and Ex- planatory, by the Rev. James Davies, M.A. is. Aristophanes: Acharnians. Chiefly from the Text of C. H, Weise. With Notes, by C. S. T. Townshend, M.A. is. 6d. Thucydides: History of the Peloponnesian War. Notes by H. Young. Book i. is. 6d. , — Xenophon’s Panegyric on Agesilaus. Notes and Intro- duction by Ll. F. W. Jewitt. is. 6d. . Demosthenes. The Oration on the Crown and the Philippics. With English Notes. By Rev. T. H. L. Leary, D.C.L., formerly Scholar of Brasenose College, Oxford, is. 6d. CROSBY LOCKWOOD AND SON, 7» STATIONERS* HALL COURT, E.C. 40. 41. 42. 43-