269 VISCERAL DISEASE. been carried out with success. Tliree main factors have contributed rifliipp this result •—(1) The observation of antiseptic piecautions anttdiabeti? treatment; and (3) attention to the eond^on of the arteries in determining the site of the amputation. Mr. who has recorded some successful cases of amputation in diabe^ .ranfrrene, comes to the following conclusions upon this subject._ “ a larcre proportion of the cases of gangrene of the lower extremities of diabetics will be found to depend either on arterial degeneration or on peripheral neuritis ; and that in the former class it is probable that the changes in the arteries will extend at least as high as the knee Whilst, therefore, it is right to amputate in those ot the former class if the disease be progressing rapidly, not lower than the knee, those of the latter may either be left alone, or if amputation be undertaken it need not be at a great distance from the seat o Visceral disease.—(1) Heart disease and atheroma.—In the matter of heart affections, it may be said that the patient vhose heart is feeble or fatty, or embarrassed by valvular disease, is ex- posed to extraordinary risk from the shock of an operation; but apart from this, heart disease, if it have induced no widespreading tissue change, appears to add little to the danger of the undertaking. On the other hand, as Verneuil points out, valvular lesions and def^enerations of the muscular tissue of the heart may, by changing the condition of the entire circulation, modify the composition of the blood, cause impairment of the viscera, alter the tissues, and bring about a condition very unfavourable to the healing process. Such patients show a disposition to passive hemorrhages difficult to check, together with oedema of the wounded region, to patches of erythema, to erysipelas, and even to gangrene. There is a local atouy which indefinitely delays healing and converts the wound into an ulcer. _ • r- i • i Operations are often performed upon limbs the arteries of which are afiected by atheroma. It is surprising how well ligatures main tain a hold upon such vessels, and how well they remain closed. The risk that would appear to be most pressing, that of secondary hjemorrhage, is in actual practice seldom encountered. That wounds in such patients are more liable to secondary bleedings than are wounds involving parts supplied by normal arteries is true, but the occurrence is not frequent. The real risks in these cases are from gangrene, from sloughing of the flaps of an amputation, or from the breaking down of the simplest wound, and from diffuse inflammations of a low type. (2) Lung disease.—The relation of phthisis to injuries has been already considered. Any chronic lung affection, such as chronic bronchitis, usually indicates impaired health, and offers difficulties in the after-treatment on account of the embarrassed breathing, tlie Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, 1893.