107 NON-INFEGTIVE ULCER. first effects of cold is to produce the condition known as chilblain ; and partly as the result of local irritation of the chilblain, such as rubbing, and partly as the result of further exposure to cold, ulcera- tion is apt to occur pretty rapidly. 6. Another local cause which leads to ulceration is movement of the part. For example, where a sore is situated over a muscle, or over a fascia which is in frequent movement, and more especially if the sore be of an oval shape and transverse to the long axis of the fascia, healing may not occur, and indeed ulceration may take place. 7. A very important cause of want of healing in a sore and of the occurrence of ulcerative changes is interference with its contraction. As will be seen later, in speaking of the healing pi’ocess (page 205), one of the necessary occurrences in the healing of an open wound is contraction of the newly-formed granulation tissue as soon as the irri- tation has so far subsided as to permit it to develop into new fibrous tissue, and if this contraction be impossible, healing may come to a standstill; and, indeed, in the case of large sores, after coming to a standstill ulceration may actually take place and the sore again en- large. Thus where a sore is situated over and adherent to a bone, and where therefore contraction cannot occur, ulceration is very apt to take place, and in any case the scar formed in such a situation is a weak one, and is very liable to break down on the slightest provo- cation ; and similarly, where there was in the first instance a very large sore or an extensive burn on the trunk, the time may come when contraction during the healing process will be no longer possi- ble, and when that is the case, the sore which up to that time had been healing readily, ceases to heal, or actually extends again. No doubt, in this case, we have in addition to the simple impossibility of contraction of the sore, another condition or factor to bear in mind, namely, that as the result of the contraction which has already taken place the blood supply to the centre of the sore is very much interfered with, and thus we have a combination of want of con- traction with deficient blood supply to explain the occurrence of the ulcerative process. 8. Further, irritation of a sore from whatever cause, if lon^ continued and of sufficient severity, may interfere with the heah ing process, and ultimately lead to the occurrence of ulceration. Thus application of injudicious lotions, such as carbolic lotion, to a granulating wound is very apt to interfere with the healing of the wound, and by setting up a considerable amount of irritation to lead to exudation into the deeper tissues, which presses on the vessels running to the part, and tlius, partly as the result of the irritation of the lotion, and. partly as the result of this interference with the cir- culation, the sox-e which in other circumstances would have healed I’eadily enough ceases to heal and becomes an ulcer. The same holds good with regard to mechanical injuiy, such as the rubbing of dress- ings over the part, too great pressure, and so forth. 9. Perhaps one of the most frequent locally ii'ritating causes which leads to the fonnation of an ulcer is the septic condition of k‘ 2