ANEURYSM. 694 there is a special danger of rupture from failure of the outer coat to undergo thickening and strengthening ; this is said to be due to the absence of any tibrous sheath around this part of the artery. The course of uncomplicated fusiform aneurysm is slow; the disease develops slowly and may long remain stationary and give rise to no serious symptoms. It is often the seat of a very loud rough bruit. When the disease occurs in the arch of the aorta—its most frequent situation—it is often fatal. In this situation the tumour may cause serious pressure upon the very important structures adjacent to it; and from the great pressure of the blood, some weakened part of the sac is very liable to yield and form a saccu- lated aneurysm, or the first part of the aorta may burst into the pericardium or the auricle, and cause instant death ; or, again, the great dilatation of the aorta may affect the orifice and lead to incompetence of its valve, or the great volume of blood in the distended vessel may offer such ob- struction to the action of the left ventricle of the heart that sudden syncope occurs. It has also been suggested that in fusiform aneurysm of the first portion of the aorta, the coronary arteries may not be duly filled, if the inelastic aorta does not contract after the action of the left ventricle. It is clear, however, that if the resiliency of the aorta is so entirely lost that blood is not forced into the coronary vessels, the cusps of the aortic valve would not be opened out, and fatal re- gurgitation would take place. Great dilatation of the root of the aorta may displace the orifices of the coronary arteries to such an extent as to im- pede the cardiac circulation. The diagnosis of fusiform aneurysm of external arteries is made by noticing the form and position of the pulsating swelling, and its slow and usually symptomless course. The diagnosis of internal fusiform aneurysm can rarely be made with certainty; the slow course of such an aneurysm, and the absence of grave pre.ssure signs, would be strong evidence in favour of such a diagnosis, but would not be conclusive evidence against a “ mixed ” aneurysm. Treatment.—No curative treatment is employed for fusiform aneurysm, for in external arteries it does not cause serious conse- quences, and in the aorta cure can only take place by total obliteration of the vessel. But palliative treatment should not be neglected, and is of greater value the nearer the aneurysm approaches the heart. It consists of all measures tending to lessen the blood pressure in the aorta, and especially of the avoidance of effort and strain, of avoidance of stimulants of all kinds, including over-eating, ojid in careful regulation of the secretions. Pig. 169.—Fusiform Aneurysm of Pop- liteal Artery, en- tirely filled with Laminated Clot. Spontaneous cure. (Royal College of Surgeons Mu- seum, No. 3246.)