960 DISLOCATIONS. age. These are powerful methods. Long wooden level's have been used, and also screw-gags, but it is the depression of the jaw which is the first and most important movement ; and unless this can be carried out, elevation is of little use. In ancient cases, re- duction may be tried up to twelve months, for if efforts to reduce fail, the breaking of adhesions will improve mobility, and one side may be tried at a time. In old unreduced dislocations, should great distress be experienced, free excision of the condyle should be prac- tised, or division of the ramus of the jaw below the fixed parts.- After reduction of a dislocation ot the jaw, the ordinai’y bandage should~L^ carefully applied, and used for at least a month ; and after this the patient should be cautioned against any incautious movement of the jaw, as yawning, which may reproduce displace- ment, unless the chin be iSvell supported. Feeding is carried out by a tube introduced behind the last molar tooth. This'dislocation is apt to be obstinately recurrent, and great care must be exercised in opening the mouth widely for some months. Sul>-liixation of tlie lower jaw.—This is a peculiar con- dition of the temporo-maxillary joint, observed in young people with lax ligaments. On movements, such as opening the mouth, there Ls a sensation of displacement, with a slight “click,” and one side of the face becomes fixed and painful. The parts usually restore them- selves on raising the chin, but the condition may so often recui^ as to be very troublesome. The pathology of this displacement is not founded on dissection, but it has been affirmed that the condyle slips in front of the inter-articular cartilage, or that the extreme laxity of the ligaments allows of an actual dislocation to take place. Avoidance of exciting causes, improvement of the general health by tonics, with blisters over the articulation, have been generally practised. Time is the great remedy for this affection; and as a patient grows older the tendency to it spontaneously ceases. Dislocations of the clavicle. 1. Dislocations of the sternal end of llie clavicle. Causation and classification.—These accidents are usually _caused by violence applied to the acromiaf end of the bjona Thus, a severe blow dFTieaVTTfairbnlbe front of the shoulder, by forcing the acromial end of the clavicle backwards, will displace the sternal end forwards. Conversely, if a patient be caught between the buffers of railway carriacres, and the shoulder be violently forced inwards and forsvards, the helid of the clavicle may be driven backwards. Direct violence, as the passage of a wheel over the parts, may also drive the sternal end of the clavicle backwards. The rave dislocation upwards ca,n only be produced by violence acting on the outer end of the clavicle from above, and forcing the shoulder downwards and inwards, i have seen spontaneous displacement of the sternal end of the clavicle forwards, from muscular exertion in a weakly lad vvith la,x lipment.. Conc^enital displacements are also on record. Pathological dislocations forw°ard, from pyiemic abscess or quiet tuberculous proce.sses are comparatively common. Sir A. Cooper notices displacement of the