21 IMMUNITY. is not usually the case. These substances, unlike the enzymes, are, as pointed out by Buchner, extremely resistant to the action of heat, as they remain capable of producing their splicitic effects .eyieit~^ter Tieing boiled. They may be dissdlvecl ouf~15yTne action of alkalies, and iif alkaline solution they j)ossess many of the properties of the original substance. It is in consequence of the jjresence of this form of proteid poison that the bodies of many bacteida, even when rendered incapable of multiplication by the action of prolonged boiling, have still the power of setting up local suppuration. Koch Qj ' * and Mitchell Prudden and Hodenpyl have drawn attention to this peculiarity of the protoplasm of the tubercle bacillus, and no fewer than seventeen organisms have been found, which, even when dead, have the same properties. They have not only the power of acting, by what is called chemotaxis, on the leucocytes, attracting them to the point at which they are placed, but they exert such an action through the poisons they contain, that the leucocytes undergo degenerative changes and death, and as a result suppuration is set up. Proteids formed by bacteria vary according to the nutrient media in which the cultivations are made. Thus, Hankin only succeeded in producing the proteid poison of anthrax bacillus when he grew it on sterilised fibrin, and Sidney Martin was only successful in producing the anthrax albumose when he cultivated the bacillus on alkali albumen. The anti-toxines, which may be considered under the heading of Immunity, are also apparently of a proteid nature, but little is known of their chemical composition. 13. Immunity.—Individual insusceptibility to certain diseases is so well marked that many people are said to be incapable of taking any of the exanthematous diseases, whilst in the popular mind an attack of one of these diseases is looked upon as an almost specific protection against a second attack, and such insusceptibility is looked upon as being to all intents and purposes permanent. This po]3ular supposi- tion is based upon well-accredited facts and figures. On the other hand, it is supposed that a certain temporary protection is conferred by a single attack of diphthei-ia or Asiatic cholera, but that this protection gradually wears off; while there are people who are not only not protected by a single attack, but seem to be even more susceptible to future attacks. Hereditary or racial immunity or susceptibility is also recognised. Koch early pointed out that field mice resist the action of the bacillus of mouse septicseniia—an organism intensely fatal to the house mouse ; whilst, on the other hand, as insisted upon by Loefiier and Schutz, the field mouse is susceptible to infection by the glanders bacillus, although white mice j and house mice resist the disease in a most remarkable fashion. This I I'esistance may often be readily overcome. If phloridzin be given in ( their food to white mice, glycosuria, which follows the exhibition of | this drug, is set up, and the animals become immediately susceptible 1 to the action of the glandcu's bacillus. They have, in fact, lost their immunity to glanders. Jt is sometimes said that anatomists and