BURNS AND SGALDS. 258 be thoroughly washed and soaked with a strong disinfectant, such as carbolic lotion (1 in 20) or sublimate solution (1 in 1000), and thoroughly covered witli an antiseptic dressing. Carbolic gauze (5 per cent.) may be used, or the whole area wrapped in sheets of salicylic wool (10 per cent.). Iodoform gauze, or iodoform wool, is also a suitable application. There is, however, a danger of iodoform poisoning. For similar reasons it is inadvisable to apply carbolic gauze or sublimate gauze or wool to large areas, although they are exceedingly good in ordinary cases. It is difficult to find an anti- septic application which fulfils the requirements—namely, to relieve pain, prevent sepsis, and exclude air. Most of those at our command achieve only one of these desiderata, others are inltant or poison- ous. Vegetable applications, such as flour and starch, are objection- able, because they are apt to decompose; oxide of zinc, bismuth, or prepared chalk are to be preferred. A. number of oleaginous pre- parations have been recommended. One of the most popular and anodyne applications is a mixture of linseed oil and lime water in equal parts. This is called Carron oil, because of its use at the Carron iron-works. Wertheimer recommends that thymol be added to increase its antiseptic action. Carbolic oil is an inefficient anti- septic and often causes carboluria. It should be used with great caution. Antiseptics mixed with oil or fat become inert. Iodoform with vaseline forms a good ointment (5j to gj). The effects of sepsis are to be watched for as soon as reaction is established. They ai*e usually severe about the time when the sloughs begin to separate. Immersion in warm baths is a particu- larly valuable expedient for preventing sepsis. Von Nussbaum says that it has done much to lessen the mortality of burns in Germany. Even children will bear immersion in hot water (100° F.) for many consecutive days and nights. The hot water excludes air, prevents sepsis, and promotes the separation of sloughs. When limbs are injured its application is easy. Adter the separation of the sloughs, the cicatrisation and distor- tion have to be guarded against. This may be done by means of splints and weights. One of the most efficacious means of prevent- ing it, and of at the same time promoting the healing of the injury, is to cover as much as possible of the surface by Thiersch’s skin grafting, by transplantation of flaps or strips of skin, or by planned incisions. The other complications are to be dealt with as they arise. Severe burns of the extremities may necessitate amputation. Scalds of tlie pharynx.—Infants and children not infre- quently scald the fauces and pharynx by drinking from the spouts of boiling kettles. This is commonly followed by spasm of the glottis and by oedema of the upper aperture of the larynx, of the epiglottis and glottis. The swollen aryteno-epiglottidean folds and the swollen epiglottis can be felt with the finger after a gag has been introduced. The slighter degrees of oedema may be re- lieved by scarification leeches to the throat, steam inhalations, small doses of tincture of aconite, or of wine of antimony. But if the