72 JNFLAMMAT10:S. some instances, as in cirrliosis of the liver, to marked contraction and diminution in tlie size of the organ (Fig. 14). Chronic in- flammatory conditions of themselves do not go on to suppuration. Symptoms.—As regards the symptoms of chronic inflammation, there is no constitutional effect from the inflammation per se, unless it attack some vital organ, any general trouble which results being due to the other morbid process, which sets up the inflammatory condition, such as tuberculosis. Of the local symptoms, the most marked is the swelling of the part, which may in some cases attain great size, more eepecially in cases of chronic inflammation of the periosteum and bone. This increase in size is, as I have already mentioned, sometimes fol- lowed, after the disease has dis- appeared, by marked dimi- nution. As re- gards the second cardinal symp- tom of inflam- mation, pain, that will vary according to the seat of the i nflammation. In some cases the pain is only very slight, in others thei-e is a good deal, and it depends on whether nerves are in- volved in or pressed upon by the inflammatory new growth. In the case of bone, for example, there is generally a good deal of pain of an aching character, worse at night. In chronic in- flammation of the soft tissues, such as the breast, the pain is of a more neuralgic character, due to the compression of the nerves. In most cases there is, however, a certain amount of tenderness on pressure. There is always some increased heat over a chronically inflamed area, as compared with the opposite side, and naturally, also, the part which is the seat of the inflam- mation is more vascular than the healthy tissues; at the same time, unless the inflammation affects the skin itself, there is no redness. The skin at the seat of a chronic inflammation, how- ever, may be of a somewhat duskier colour than elsewhere, and the Fig. 13.—Section of Nerve from a Stump, showing the great Increase of the Fibrous Tissue as the result of Chronic Inflammation. This new tissue is very vascular, and as it contracts presses on the tubules, leading to their atrojiby.