3S0 HYSTERIA IN ITS 8UBGI0AL RELATIONS. extravagant consciousness of self. She is oppressed by her sur- roundings, and judges of circumstances by the effects they produce upon herself. There is usually some bodily ill-health at the bottom of hysteria, possibly some uterine disturbance, more often some aiiEemia, and perhaps most often chronic dyspepsia. The subjects are usually weak, easily tired both in brain and body, and possessed by a frame of mind that is the reverse of self-reliant. In many cases the patient’s surroundings are unfortunate, her home life is miserable, and her troubles have been numerous. In not a few of the examples of hysteria in women past middle life, there may be the elements of excessive drinking. Symptoms.—The symptoms of hysteria may develop suddenly after some great grief or personal calamity. More often they appear slowly. Profound emotional disturbances do not so often appear to lead to hysteria as do petty forms of irritation that are constantly repeated. Worry, the continual dropping of water upon the mental stone, is a great cause of the hysterical state. The symptoms of the affection need not be dealt with in detail and can only be briefly tabulated in this place. The features ol the hysterical “fit” are familiar. Sensory disturbances. —Hypersesthesia, intolerance of light or of sound, intense dislike to certain odours and articles of food; neuralgia, often involving the muscles, and very commonly the breast and intercostal nerves •, headache, hemicrania, “ clavus hystericus ” (a defined gnawing pain about the top of the head, near the sagittal suture or over one brow) ; abdominal pains (often in the epigastrium) which may be attended by symptoms imitating ulcer of the stomach, peritonitis, or ovarian disease. Anaesthesia, as shown by sensory paralysis of certain tracts of skin, and by hysterical blindness and deafness. Motor disturbances as illustrated by paraplegia and hemiplegia, by palsy of the bladder leading to incontinence j of the gullet, leading to dysphagia; of the bowels, causing tympanitis and constipation, and of the vocal cords producing aphonia. Muscular tremor, muscular spasms, contracted limbs, strabismus, etc., local or general convulsions. “Globus hystericus”: a sense as of a ball rising from the abdomen into the throat, where it appears to become impacted, a condition supposed to be due to peristaltic contraction of the gullet. Vascular disturbances, as shown by tumultuous or irregular action of the heart, fainting fits, congestive headaches, exaggerated blusliing, extremities that may be at one time burning and at another extremely cold; bloodlessness of certain parts of the sui- face, so that a pin-prick is not followed by bleeding; disordered menstruation; irregularity in the quantity of urine excreted, etc. N6Uroniiin6Sis.—The phenomena of hysteria that mostly con- cern surgical practice are those by which the features of certain diseases are reproduced. To these phenomena the term of Nemo- mimesis has been applied. This mimicry of disease may be veiy