790 INJUEJE8 OF BONES. the muscle supplied and development of the “reaction of degeneration.” If physical continuity persists, the length of nerve fibres destroyed is not great, and the nerve is relieved from all pressure of displaced frag- ments, it is likely that in six to eight weeks sensation will return the muscles will react better to galvanism, and then to stimulation of the nerve trunk above the lesion. If, in the course of four to six months, no regeneration occurs, it may be concluded that there is some obstacle to it, such as section and separate healing of the ends, or a considerable length of scar tissue. Diagfiiosis.—The distribution of the nerve affected ; the extent to which its function is impaired; the severity of the pain—con- stant when the cause acts constantly, intermittent wlien it is due to certain movements, active or passive; whether function improves and pain duninishes, or vice versd; whether wasting of certain muscles and reaction of degeneration appear early and progress rapidly—these are the points upon which we endeavour to base a conclusion as to the physical state of the nerve. If movements are not performed as part of the treatment of every fracture, it will often happen that loss of motion will not be noticed till after union of the bones; it will then be difficult to decide whether the nerve lesion occurred early or late, whetlier it was a primary contusion or a compression by callus. Electrical examination is of no assistance: it will not tell whether a nerve is divided or compressed—the axis cylinders being sound. Treatment.—Acute pain should lead to careful examination and setting, under an anaesthetic if necessary. This failing to relieve, the nerve should be exposed, freed from pressure or resected and sutured if much damaged. With tetanus in view, much time should not be wasted over anodynes. If no recovery of function occui-s in three to four months, the nerve should be exposed, resected, and sutured. While awaiting recovery, galvanism two or three times a week and massage should be used to prevent as far as possible wasting of the muscles; but if there is any sign of neuritis, neither of these should be practised, at least near the injured nerve, which then requires rest, moist warmth, and belladonna locally; later, counter-irritation along its track. DEFECTIVE UNION IN FRACTURE. Delayed union.—In about one in eighty cases the average peiuods (page 763) required for the union of various bones are markedly in- sufficient-—union is “delayed” for weeks, months, or even years: on removal of the hindrance, union occurs. J. Hutchinson, junr., recently quoted a case of ununited fracture of the radius, of four years’ standing, in a syphilitic patient; without much hope of success, iodide of potassium was exhibited, and bony union occurred. Presumably, a gumma had been active during the period of non-union. This case is \evy exceptional; unless some cause of delayed union has evidently been