98 8UPPUBATI0N. completely, and then, wherever it can be managed, the wall should be cut or clipped away. In the parts where this is not advisable or possible the sharp spoon must be employed thoroughly, with the view of excising any remaining portions of the wall. Bone deposits, or diseased portions of bone, must of course be removed as completely as possible. Where the wall has in this way been thoroughly exposed and pretty completely removed, one may stitch up the wound again, and obtain healing by first intention, and in most cases no recurrence takes place ; in fact, in most cases the tuberculous material has been completely taken away. One may, before closing the wound in such cases, inject a small quantity of a 10 per cent, emulsion of iodoform and glycerine, and leave it in. Where consider- able portions of the abscess wall are left behind in the depth of the wound, it is best not to close it in the first instance, but to pack it with cyanide gauze, which has been thoroughly sprinkled over with iodoform. This packing will not require renewal for several days— possibly five or six, and then subsequently it should be changed every day or two, according to circumstances. After a time it will be found that the wound (even in the parts where tuberculous material was left behind) has become covered with healthy granulations, and when that is the case, the stufiing may be left out, the edges of the wound stitched, and healing by first intention permitted. It has been supposed by Krause that while iodoform has no real antibacteiic action in ordinary circumstances, it may interfere with the vitahty of the tubercle bacilli when oxygen is absent, and in plugging a deep cavity firmly with gauze and iodoform, the oxygen is more or less completely excluded, and in addition the surface of the wound is irritated and made to granulate more rapidly by the mechanical action of the gauze itself. ^ 3. In cases where it is impossible to carry out the first or secona plan of treatment, and where one can only make a limited opening into the abscess cavity, and cannot reach the whole of its wall efficiently as in the case of psoas abscess, the next best plan is to make an incision sufficiently large to admit the entrance of the fin<^er. The contents of the abscess are then allowed to escape, and a sharp spoon is introduced, preferably one of Barker’s fiushing spoons, where the handle is hollow, and a stream of fluid can be made to flow constantly through the wound at the same time that it is scraped. By means of the spoon, the wall of the abscess cavity is everywhere scraped as thoroughly as possible, care of course being taken on the side towards the veins or the peritoneum, not to open them.' Having thoroughly scraped the whole of the soft and as much of the hard tissue of the wall as possible, the material so detached is thoroughly washed out (where Barker’s spoon is used this washing-out goes on simultaneously with the scraping) by a .stream of weak warm antiseptic solution, such as 1 to 6,UUU bichloride of mercury, and afterwards it is well to dry the cavity, and in addition to remove any adherent portions of tuberculous mate- rial by introducing a rough sponge into it and thoroughly scrubbing