765 COURSE OF A SIMPLE FRACTURE. and inflamed tissues. Other causes are suggested—e.<7. the etfeot of irritation of sensory nerves on thermogenetic centres, though experi- mental irritation is known to cause depression of temperature ; fat- embolism and tension (Horsley)—both very doubtful. A hcematogenous jaundice connected with the absorption ot blood pigment has been observed. Urine. Bilirubin, derived from blood pigment, is said to be frequently found; it yields a yellow-green fluorescence when the urine is shaken with ZnClj and NH3. Fat-enxbolism.—ikccording to Scriba and Riedel, fat in very variable quantity may be found in the urine after simple fractures, in as many as 42 per cent, of the cases, appearing two to four days after the injury, as a whitish layer on the surface, and disappearing in about twenty days. It is due to absorption of oil-drops from crushed fat and marrow cells; they are carried to the lungs (fat- embolism), where they may be demonstrated in the smaller vessels by staining sections with osmic acid; gradually they are swept on into the systemic circulation and to the organs supplied by it, and thus reach the kidneys and pass through the urine. Horsley and myself examined between us the urine of a large number of cases of simple fracture, but we never found fat; Horsley detected it in the sputum in two cases. Riedel further stated that albumen and casts (hyaline and brown granular) might be detected twenty-four to forty-eight hours after simple fractures, disappearing by the fourth to sixth day. In rare instances I was able to confirm this observation. Albumen and casts in the urine have been produced in animals by experi- mental fractures, injections of blood into the peritoneum, or by injection of fibrin-ferment. Fat-embolism, to a greater or less extent, occurs in most fractures and contusions. It has been regarded as the cause of death in some obscure cases. The symptoms are said to be dyspnoea, with i-ales, low temperature, and death in coma. Cohnheim disputed the likehhood of the explanation, because large quantities of fat can be injected into the circulation of animals without causing serious symptoms, and even ligature of one pulmonary artery causes only momentaiy elevation of the blood pressure. Suppuration of a simple fracture and necrosis are very rare. Suppuration has generally occurred after injury to the skin from direct violence, or in alcoholic, diabetic or albuminuric patients, or in connection with some boil, septic sore or ulcer ; but in some cases no source of infection can be found. Delirium tremens is less common than formerly, but is still not infrequent in alcoholic patients who become the subjects of fractures. They do not sleep from the first, often reply to questions in a quick jerky way, and their movements are tremulous; in two or three days the characteristic delirium appears. The great points are to procui’e sleep, to treat the patient, if possible, so that he shall not be kept in bed, but shall be able to get some exercise, and to put up the fracture so that the limb as a whole can be freely moved.