1082 DISEASES OF JOINTS. point. In this case it is usually very gradual, coming on in delicate children, as a rule, under eight years of age. The first thing noticed is a slight limp, the child being quite unconscious of pain. This involuntary limp—“ unfreiwilliges Hinken ”—is doubtless due to the fact that pressure upon the damaged head of the bone at this early stage of the affection produces a sense of un- easiness, hardly amount- ing to pain, but sufficient to lead the patient to rest as short a time upon the limb as possible; there is, therefore, a short step and a long alternately. -es Fig. 442.—A, AoetalDulum ; Y, ilio-femoral ligament and strong anterior part o£ the capsule ; P, femur. If the joint be examined at this early stage, while the patient lies on the back, it will probably be found to move in all directions pretty fi-eely without pain, thus indicating that the surfaces that play one upon the other are so far unaffected. It is only when forcible passive movements are made in such a way as to put the upon the stretch, and so force the head against the ligaments if acetabulum by leverage, that pain is complained of. Or, again, the flexed knee is struck in a direction towards the pelvis, or the trochanter pressed inwards towards the acetabulum. The pain, when the limb is over-extended or abducted, is thus explained. The Y- licament prevents over-extension, and when the femur is bi ought into this position the ligament acts as the fulcrum of a lever represented by the femur, and when the latter is forced backwards the head is pressed into the acetabulum, and the diseased spot is subjected to strain (Figs. 442 and 443). _ The same may be said of abduction when cai’ried to an extreme. It is to prevent such pressure that the patient involuntarily flexes, abducts, and everts the liml^ i.e. to relax the most "" powerful and tense liga- ments (Fig. 443). Now, if synovitis were present, even though we were unable to detect the usual signs of inflammation, we should find the joint fixed, to prevent any rubbino- of the inflamed surfaces one upon the other, and any passive movement would be resisted voluntarily, with expressions of acute suffering. The characteristic position of acute synovitis would also be assumed (Fig. 440). As long, therefore, as these two conditions are distinct, these signs will serve to distinguish the one from the other. . . . But to separate the femoral from the acetabular^ variety is quite nnotlier matter, and is sometimes imjiossible. It is, however, no Fig. 443.—A, Acetabulum: y, ilio-femoral ligament aud strong part of the capsule f, femur ; d, diseased area.