DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 1005 placing a lieavy sand-bag, or tlie well-padded bed-posfc, between the tliighs and adducting the limb upon these as a fulcrum. 4. Dislocation forwards and inwards on to tlie pnbcs, dislocation under tlie crural arch (Fig. 412). Condition oj soft parts.—The pubic dislocation may be looked upon as a further degree of obturator displacement. If violent extension and rotation outwards occurs, the head of the femur will mount upwards and forwards beneath Poupart’s ligament. The soft parts are torn and lacerated to much the same extent as in the obturator disloca- tion. The cajjsule is torn interiorly, but, according to Gunn, anteriorly also, to a marked extent. The head of the bone lies usually nearer the ilium than the pubes, to the outer side of the femoral vessels ; the crural nerves are, thei’efore, often stretched considerably. The head of the femur may pass under Poupart’s ligament for a considerable distance up- wards into the pelvis. The tension of the ilio-psoas tendon and the untorn ilio-femoral Ligament produces eversion. Symptoms.—There is true shortening to the extent of about an inch, or even more. The limb is a little flexed, ab- ducted, and everted (Fig. 413). It is very flxed, sLiglit flexion being only per- mitted. There is pain in the course of tlie crural nerve, and the head of the femur makes a marked projection beneath Poupart’s ligament, which is the dis- tinguishing si^ of the accident, and at once diflerentiates it from fracture. Treatment.—The leg and thigh are flexed in slight abduction, and then swept inwards in adduction until near the median line; rotation inwards or Fig. 4i3.—Pubic Dislocation of tbt rotation outwards may then be tried, the limb being extended at the same time. By these means the head of the bone retraces its steps round the acetabulum to the inner side and below, and the final manipulation slips it into the socket. Should the head of the bone have passed far under the crural a,rch, it would be right to flex the leg and thigli well, and draw or lift it downwards, until it is judged that the head of the bone is sutticiently disengaged to move freely on mani- pulation. The different methods of manipulation advised for this dislocation make it very probable that no one method will succeed tor all case.s