819 FRAG TUBES OF THE HUMERUS. violence—falls or blows upon the elbow; still greater force may cause much comminution. A fracture of the olecranon is a not infrequent concomitant of these serious injuries, which are always accompanied by great swelling and are often compound or complicated by injuries to nerves or vessels. As to displace- ment—almost anything may happen; but usually the lower fragments are drawn backwards and upwards, whilst the upperfragment sinkstowards the joint between them, forcing them apart. Signs.—If there be not too much swelling, the lower end of the humerus seems much widened; eveiything is loose, crepitus perceived at each movement; the relations between the olecranon and epicondyles are more or less ab- normal, yet the sigmoid notch and radial head cannot be felt; when extension is made, the condyles can be pressed together, and moved upon each other. 4. Fractures of tise trochlea or capi- telliiiii, usually with the corresponding epicon- dyle, are common accidents in this region, especially in children. They arise from falls upon the hand, and violent latei’al wrenches of the joint. Signs.—In these cases, when seen early, swelling, pain, and tenderness may be limited to the side injured. Dislocation of the fragment will disturb the relation between the epicondyles and the olecranon; the ulna accompanies the trochlea, and when the two slip backwards, the radius also may be found below and behind the capitellum. The tendency to displacement of the radius in fracture of the capitellum is less marked. Pressure on the epicondyles shows mobility and crepitus, and these may be detected, together with angular movement, in the joint when the elbow is extended and the fore-arm abducted or adducted. Carried to excess, these move- ments would easily induce dislocation of the fore-arm bones, especially in the outward and backward direction when the trochlea and epicondyle are loose. Dislocation of the fore-arm bones and to the ulnar nerve are the chief complications. 5. Fracture of the internal or external epicondyle.— The latter is very rare, and is due to direct violence or muscular action. The small fragment is felt at the seat of pain, held in position by untorn tendon, or displaced downwards by extensor muscles. It unites by bone if not displaced, otherwise by ligament. In either case little or no inconvenience results. The internal epicondyle may be broken off by direct violence, or by muscular and ligamentous traction in falls bending the fore-arm outwards; it is not uncommonly pulled off in dislocations of the Fi". 255.—A coniTninuted T-Fracture of the lower End of tlie Humerus; from a mini who fell from a ladder. The fracture was compound and suppurated. Ampu- tation after one month. There Is scarcely a trace of new bone about the fragments. (Uni- versity College Mu- seum, No, 202.;