775 TliUATMENT OF COMPOUND FEAUTURES. pain, and to avoid it in performing the massage. As to movement, the part’is laid comfortably on something giving uniform support—e.g. a .sandbag or,in some instances, the surgeon’s thigh covered with a towel; little movement of the fragments then results from the manage. Under these conditions, it is said that comfort and relief of pain are always experienced from a seance; that the opposite effects may be taken as showing that the massage is too forcible, trenches too closely on the fracture, or is in some way improperly performed. The existence of a tendency to displacement is a serious difficulty; it is met by performing massage at once to diffuse the early extrava- sation, and then applying splints, which are removed after three or four days for a repetition of the massage, whilst the limb is held in position by assistants. The tendency to spasm and shortening is said to subside soon, and then regular seances can be undertaken. The movements to be practised are of the simplest kind. W^ith the limb well supported, hght upward pressure is to be made with the thumbs, starting from the tender point; the fingers rest on the side of the limb, and both they and the thumbs are well greased with vaseline or olive oil. Even in the same seance it will be found that firmer pressure can be borne. At the end of each seance the patient should be encouraged to perform all the movements of the limb which are possible without producing displacement, the hands of the surgeon supporting the fracture; and where a patient fails through lack of resolution, the surgeon will execute passive movements. Each seance lasts a quarter to half-an-hour; it is repeated, at first, daily, or even twice a day until the early swelling is gone—then at longer intervals. Longer or shorter seances should be continued more or less frequently, so long as any part is painful or stiff. It is obvious that treatment of this kind must be carried out by a surgeon; it cannot, without danger, be handed over to “specialists in massage.” A. Landerer quite recently has claimed that massage, begun so soon as there is no more fear of bending of callus, shortens the period of treatment to half or one-third, and enables the patient to use the limb properly in half the usual time, while wasting, oedema, and stiffness are avoided. TREATMENT OF COMPOUND FRACTURES. First help.—The first help to be rendered in cases of com- pound is similar to that recommended in cases of simple fracture, ■with the addition that no unnecessary meddling with the wound is to be permitted; if the part be not injured past recovery, the point of first importance in prognosis is the absence of infection of the wound. Bleeding must be dealt with by elevation or by pressure above the wound; pressure on the wound so often leads to infection and wide extravasation into the tissues. If transport to proper assistance will be short, it is probably best to leave the wound untouched, and not to reduce a fragment should it project and become soiled; it will act as a plug, which can be easily cleaned. If aid cannot speedily be procured, every endeavour should