COHNS. 707 Owing to the inflaiuinatoiy congestion of the papillae around the epidermic downgrowth, corns ai’e generally painful, and any con- dition which increases this congestion (such as too prolonged walk- ing or standing) may render them exquisitely tender. In many people the atmospheric change accompanying the approach of wet weather has a most marked effect in causing shooting pain or “ twinges ” in their corns. Apart from the fact that inflamed corns often completely dis- able their sufferers from active exercise, it must not be forgotten that they may be the starting-point of more serious troubles. If an abscess or ulcer form at their site, lymphangitis or spreading suppuration may follow their neglect or injudicious treatment, and in old peo})le, with athei’omatous arteries, cases of senile gangrene have been re- corded which owed their commencement to this comparatively trivial cause. Ti'catiuent.—It is essential for its cure that the injurious pressure which has produced a corn should be removed. Broad-toed boots with low heels are required in most cases, though sometimes the fault lies in the upper leather being too thick or badly-shaped. Each boot should be carefully designed to fit the individual foot. After soaking well in hot water, the hard epidermis, and especially the central core, should be carefully cut away with a sharp scalpel, and a circular ring of felt plaster should be worn to protect the site of the corn from pressure. Salicylic plaister (10 or 20 per cent.) or a saturated solution of salicylic acid in collodion frequently applied will act well in softening the corn, after which the central part may be more readily cut out. In using the knife only the thickened cuticle should be removed, and hence no bleeding should occur. In cases of hammer-toe (where the second toe is hyper-extended at the metatarso-phalangeal joint and strongly flexed at the first inter-phalangeal one) a very troublesome corn is apt to develop over the latter articulation. The only effectual treatment in some of these cases is to amputate the offending digit. Warts (verrucas).—A cutaneous wart consists essentially in a pedunculated overgrowth of the epithelium, in the centre of which IS an extension of the papillary layer of the corium containing a vascular loop and often a small nerve. The peduncle may be ex- ceedingly slender, whilst the projecting part of the wart branches in a cauliflower-like manner. They vary much in consistence, the Hardest ones generally occurring on exposed parts which are kept cliy, whilst those situated on a region of the skin habitually moist are often very .soft and delicate (Fig. 199). It should be mentioned that warts may develop on mucous membranes, such as the lining of the lips, the soft palate, the conjunctiva, the vaginal or urethral walls. W.i*" is pr^^ctically impossible to draw any distinction between a arc and a papilloma, and the so-called papillomata of the larynx sli.Z to-r"to many warts of the skin, allowing for «hght differences due to their site. The colour of warts varies from X A