DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 554 process, giving rise to no symptoms, requiring no treatment; and it is hardly accurate to speak of it as a disease of arteries, but rather as a process of repair. We have already considered the details of this repair in the previous Article. (See page 512.) 2. Suppurative arteritis.—This is an intense acute inflamma- tion of the coats of an artery, caused by the growth of pyogenic organisms, and is exactly analogous to acute suppuration in other tissues. The arterial wall is infected in one of three ways ; most often by the spreading of suppuration and ulceration from the surrounding tissues, sometimes by an infected ligature, and some- times the poison may be contained in the blood, and infect the vessel through the thrombus formed in it. However the disease originates, it is attended with dilatation of the vasa vasorum in the sheath and the outer coats of the vessel, and by a rapid exudation of serum and migration of leucocytes. The wall of the artery is swelled and softened, the endothelium is shed, and blood coagulates in the interior. By the peptic action of the pyogenic toxines, the cells and fibres of the arterial wall are broken up and dissolved, and the artery “ulcerates.” In some cases the destructive process is mai'ked by the formation of distinct sloughs of the vessel. The softening and destruction of the vessel-wall exposes the patient to grave risk of haemorrhage—this disease is the chief cause of secondary haemorrhage —and, indeed, this result would be invariable were it not that the blood coagulates within the vessel, and that often the clot completely fills the artery and extends beyond the infected portion of the vessel, which then becomes shut off by plastic arteritis. In small arteries this often occurs. In large arteries the rapid stream of blood interferes with coagulation, and may prevent complete obliteration of the lumen with a clot, and then hsemorrhage is sure to occur when the arterial wall softens. A striking instance of this is when a large artery is exposed in the wall of an acute abscess; if the artery becomes infected, that pai’t of its wall which projects into the abscess, yields, forming an' aneurysmal pouch, and then bursts into the abscess cavity. The hsemorrhage in the late stages of phthisis may be from this cause. A few years ago I had a case of suppuration in the neck, in which nearly the whole length of the common carotid artery was destroyed by this disease, and death occurred from secondary hsemorrhage. An abscess in the neck, into which the common carotid artery had opened, was incised by Liston with disas- trous result. The liability for the suppurative process to extend to arteries is the reason why all acute abscesses near large vessels should be opened and disinfected at the earliest possible moment. Injury of an artery, as by a bullet or other foreign body, a sequestrum or a ligature, renders it less able to withstand the influence of infection, and the destructive process advances more rapidly. 3. Embolic arteritis may be considered separately, owing to its great interest. When a non-infective embolus lodges in an artery, the blood coagulates upon it until it completely blocks the vessel, the endothelium proliferates, and all the changes of plastic