134 GANGRENE. amputation is performed, the shock of the operation superadded to the shock of the injury, leads to the death of the patient. Of course, if the attempts at rendering the injured parts aseptic be not suc- cessful, then we are brought face to face with the various septic dangers in addition to the dangers resulting from the injuries of vessels and nerves passing to the parts beyond, and we have to fall back on the old rules on this matter ; but even then the sepsis is usually not declared till twenty-four or forty-eight hours have elapsed, during which time the patient has recovered from the primary shock. One must also, in considering this question of amputation, take into account the general condition of the patient; his age; the advisability of subjecting him to the long treatment in bed which may be necessary where we have an extensive wound and where we would otherwise decide to attempt to save the limb; and the condition of the kidneys, especially as to whether the patient is the subject of albuminuria, or of diabetes. In the latter instance, the cases in which attempts may be made to save the limb are fewer than where this condition is not present. (6) Gaiigreiie due fo pressure.—Another cause of direct gangrene is continued pressure on a part, and this is a very import- ant point to remember when one has to place the patient in the same position for a long time. In such cases the parts which are subjected to pressure are very apt to die, more especially the skin over the sacrum, and, indeed, over any prominent projections of bone which may press either on the bed or on the splint; in other words, we have to do with the condition known as hed-sore. One must bear in mind the chance of bed-sores in these cases, and be on the outlook for them, and if possible anticipate their occurrence by proper treatment. As to the various means of avoiding the occurrence of bed-sores, the first thing is to vary the pressure so that it shall not always tell on the same point, and this may be done by altering the position of the patient or of the part. In addition to varying the pressure, it should be distributed. Where bed-sores over the sacrum are feared the patient should be placed on a water-pillow, so as to distribute the pressure equally over a large surface. In using a water-pillow, great care must be taken that a proper quantity of water is introduced into it. If too much water be present the pillow becomes hard and causes as much pressure as if it were not employed, where^, on the other hand, if too little water be introduced, the patient is not properly floated up, and the part comes in contact with the bed; hence the rule is to put in just sufficient water to keep the patient floatino-. Another great point in the avoidance of bed-sore is to keep the part which is subjected to pressure thoroughly dry. The patient should be turned over once or twice a day; the region of the sacrum should be carefully washed and thoroughly dried, and then it is well to sponge the part with some stimulating fluid, that generally employed being spirits of wine. This is allowed to dry on the skin, which is then powdered, either with starch or other