257 treatment. alimentary tract. The interest vrhich surrounds them has led authois to f^ive them undue prominence. Tlieir existence is, as a i , unsuspected during life. It is quite fanciful to imagine that they are due to any increased action of Brunner s _ glanj, rendered necessary by the destruction of sweat glands. Pam in the region of the duodenmn, increased by pressure, with vomiting of blwd, oi diarrhoea with blood in the motions, would render their existence probable. They have caused death by hmraorrhage or by perforative peritonitis. They are said to occur about the tenth day. _ Durin<- the course of burns and scalds albuminuria, or even Immwturil, may occur. They are both due to After prolonged suppuration, albuminuria may be caused by amyloid infiltration of the kidney. « i Pneumonia and pleuritis are also frequent complications of burns and scalds. Their presence is often unsuspected, as the patient is too ill for a physical examination. Pain, cough, rusty sputum, and increased frequency of respiration would cause them to be suspected. Engorgement of the vessels of the meninges of the brain ana spinal cord, and sometimes meningitis, have been noted after deaths from burns and scalds. 11 • Treatment. The immediate treatment of burns and scalds is directed to the prevention of death from shock and collapse, and to the alleviation of pain. Brandy may be given by the mouth, but is often more efficacious if given as an enema. Two or three ounces of brandy should be administered, with the addition of a suitable dose of opium. If necessary, the rectum should be washed out before introducing the brandy enema. If the heart’s failure be extreme, ether and liquor strychnine may be injected deep into the sub- cutaneous tissue, or into the substance of the gluteus maximus. The excruciating pain should be relieved with a hypodermic injection of morphia The dressing of a burn or scald may be a painful process, and therefore it is well to be prepared to give an ansesthetic. The garments should be gently and carefully removed, so as not to denude the injured surface. The local treatment of bums or scalds depends upon their degree. In the first degree there is no breach of continuity, and sepsis is not to be apprehended. Dusting the surface with any soft, simple powder relieves the pain. If the area be small and shock absent, cool applications, such as cold water, lead lotion, cold starch, and so forth, may be prescribed. In burns of the second degree the separated epidermis and tb.e fluid in the bullie protect the denuded papillae until their highly sensitive surface is again covered with epithelium. It is therefore best to leave the bullae alone until this has taken place. Should it be expedient to let the serum out, care should be taken not to injure or remove the epidermis. In burns of tlie third degree the dangers of subsequent sepsis and suppuration have to be provided for. The whole area should