WOUND OF ARTERIES. 501 occlude it. The flow of blood through the artery, tlierefore, is uninter- rupted, and the full blood pressure continues to be exerted upon the puncture all through the process of healing. The clot that forms in the puncture is supported, however, by a clot outside the artery in its sheath (Fi". 136). When the blood pressure rise'j during recovery from shock durfng movement or excitement, or from the effects of stimulants, it often displaces this clot and causes a renewal of the hcemorrhage. Another very important fact is that punctured wounds of arteries are often deep wounds, and are very liable to be oblique ; the blood which escapes from the artery does not find a ready exit and it accumulates in the tissues, coagulates there, and, the luemorrhage still continuing, a traumatic aneurysm is formed. {See pa"e 629.) In these cases, too, the surgeon is liable to close the Eternal wound with his dressings without arresting the escape of blood from the artery, and the blood, collecting in the tissues, produces an aneuiysm. The third element of danger arises from the risk of infection of the wound in the artery, either rrom the puncturing body or from secondary infection of the deep, irregulai, oblique, ill-drained wound. The effects of a punctured wound of an artery, therefore, are hemorrhage, which is very prone to recur owing to displacement of the clot (intermediate hcemorrhage), traumatic aneurysm, and septic arteritis leading to secondary hemorrhage. Where the companion vein is punctured at the same time as the artery, arterio-venous aneurysm may result. {See page 633.) Xi’eatineiit*—The only rehable treatment of a punctured wound of an artery is the aseptic ligature of the vessel above and below the puncture. This should be carried out at once, and for this purpose it is generally necessary to enlarge the wound. If the companion vein is found punctured, it, too, is to be tied if^ the hEemorrhage continues after the artery is secured. Pressm’e with a graduated compress or pad and bandage has often been employed, and its results have, as a rule, been disastrous, owing to the forma- tion of an aneurysm or to recurrence of the bleeding. If the pres- sure is sufficiently firm to arrest the flow of blood through the artery until the puncture is firmly healed, it may be successful. {See also page 513.) 4. Incised wounds of arteries. — Incised wounds are the most frequent of all wounds of arteries 3 they are characterised by the excessive haemorrhage they occasion. If the wound in the artery is longitudinal, it gapes but little, and chiefly dui’ing the ventricular systole; its healing may take place quickly. If tlie wound is transverse to the long axis of the artery, it gapes widely, and when it involves more than half the circumference of the vessel the retraction of the divided part makes a very large opening in the vessel. An oblique wound in an artery is inter- mediate in character (Fig. 137). When an artery is completely divided across, its ends contract and retract within its sheath, as will be more fully described when we speak of the natural arrest of