nUPTUEE OF ARTERIES. 497 and rupture the thin tunica adventitia and lead to external liiemorrhage or a traumatic aneurysm, or it may strip up the divided inner coats and fold them down like a valve, or even invert them as a complete tube within the vessel. These effects are well seen in the accompanying drawings of specimens in the Middlesex Hospital Museum (Figs. 133, 134). Still more severe contusion severs all the coats of the vessel, producing its so-called rupture. Owing to the curling up of the inner coats, and to the outer coat being drawn out, frayed, and falling over the end of the vessel, coagulation of the blood may rapidly occur, and even in the case of large arteries there may be little or no hremorrhage. But if the ends of the rup- tured artery are not thus closed at once, blood escapes from one or both of them ] and if the rupture be subcutaneous, the blood infiltrates the cellular tissue of -tlie part, often spreading for a great distance, and producing great tension of the parts, which interferes with the venous circulation and Avith the anasto- mosing arteries, so that gangrene quickly comes on. {See also 142.) The discoloration of an ordinary bruise is due to the escape of blood from small vessels Avhich have been ruptured by the contusion. Contusion of an artery may have two other serious effects. It may so impair the vitality of the arterial wall, and lessen thereby its poAver of resisting the influences of micro- organisms, that if the surrounding tissues are infected, septic arteritis quickly ensues, and runs on to ulceration and sloughing of the vessel Avith great danger of secondary hsemorr- hage. The contusion may also destroy the Adtality of the outer coat Avithout severing it, and the separation of the dead from the living part of the vessel is attended with the dangers of traumatic aneurysm and hsemorrhage. The effects of contusion of an artery, therefore, are very varied. The most frequent result is occlusion of the lumen of the vessel by blood clot and displaced portions of the coats, Avith the risk of gangrene from diminished supply of blood. The division of the coats of the vessel causes the Aveakening of the artery and a lessened power of resisting the blood pi’essure, which may result in aneurysm or liffimorrhage. The impairment of the vitality of the Amssel intro- duces the dangers of sloughing and ulceration, witli tlie probability of secondary hscmorrliage. Symptoms.—Contusion of an artery can only be I’ecognised Fig. 133.—Contusion of an Artery, showing the division of the inner anA middle coats and the curling up of these severed coats within the artery. (Middlesex Hospital Museum.)