BACILLUS OF BUBONIC PLAGUE. 39 and 0‘7fi in breadth, i.e. about one-fifth the diameter of a red blood corpuscle, sometimes arranged in pairs or in short chains. The extremities of these rods are usually stained with the aniline colours, giving them up again on being treated with Gram’s iodine solution, 5ie central zone or band always remaining unstained. In cultures it grows best at the body temperature, and also when the supply of oxygen is somewhat restricted, hence its growth is always more lux- uriant in the deeper layers of the culture media than near the surface. In plate cultures tlie organisms give rise to white isolated colonies of the size of a pin-head, which, under the microscope, appear granular. In tube cultures they occur as small granulated colonies which gradually coalesce; there may be no surface growth at all, but if there is it appears in the form of a thin whitish layer, sometimes smooth, sometimes slightly irregular. On agar-agar the growth is more transparent and greyer than on gelatine. On blood serum it forms a very delicate, yellowish, slightly iridescent layer'. If cul- tivated at the ordinary room temperatui’e it soon loses if.s virulence. Some observers describe a growth on potatoes, others do not; some affirm that milk is coagulated, others that it is not. All the members of this group of bacilli produce indol when grown in peptone solution, and cause a uniform turbidity of broth. They retain their vitality for a considerable length of time if kept moist, but drying kills them in less than a fortnight. A culture attenuated by growth at a low temperature, may recover its virulence when inoculated into a series of susceptible animals, such as the sparrow. The most characteristic results of the action of this bacillus are swelling of the spleen and lymphatic glands, swelling and ecchymoses of the mucous membranes, acute cedema at the pomt of inoculation, and hemorrhages and degenerations of small areas of muscles. The bacilli continue to increase in the body after death. In less susceptible animals local abscesses are formed. The bacillus of the bubonic plague.—Quite recently Kitasato has described a bacillus, found in the blood and tissues of patients suffering from the bubonic plague, very much resembling the bacilli of the hsemorrhage septictemias. This, he maintains, has an setiological relation to the disease. These observations have been corroborated by Yersin and others. The bacilli are described as “ rods with rounded ends, which are readily stained by the ordinary aniline dyes, the poles being stained darker than the middle part, especially in the blood preparations, and presenting a capsule sometimes well marked, sometimes indistinct.” Like the Bacillus septiciemise hsemoirhagicffi, this bacillus is about one-fifth the diametei* of a red blood corpuscle in length, and half as broad as long. It is sometimes single, sometimes arranged in pairs, or it may be in short chains. It IS only slightly motile, even when grown in beef broth, which medium it renders somewhat cloudy. It grows best on blood serum at the body teniperature, as a moist yellowish-grey growth, which does not peptonise the medium on which it is growing. It also grows freely on glycerine agar-agar, as whitish-grey colonics, which by