FBAC TUBES OF TEE HUME BUS. 8.11 by crepitus if the surfaces are in contact and free, or if tlie tuber- osities are split off. 'i'lie fingers cannot be pressed in beneath the aci’omion to any considerable extent, nor is there any prominence in the axilla or beneath the pectorals unless the head has escaj^ed from the capsule; then it is felt in its abnonnal situation, is movable under the fingei’S, but not with the shaft, emptiness of the glenoid fossa becomes evident, and shortening may increase to one inch. The brachial plexus may be severely contused in this accident. With firm impaction the deformity at the upper end of the bone and its superficial consequences are to be relied upon ; there may be slight crepitus from small splinters. J. Hutchinson, noted that in of cases slight, orno impaction, shortening sometimes increased during the first weeks, owing to muscular action, the head being forced down and in as the shaft rose; such cases, two or three months after the accident, have been taken, he says, for unre- duced dislocations, and treated accordingly. Treatment. —The application of a shoulder cap, with such ex- tension as may be necessary to overcome shortening, meets the requirements of most cases when swelling is subsiding : till then the limb may lie on a pillow with weight-extension applied. A dis- located head may be reduced by digital pressure, with the possi- bility that it will assume a faulty position, and the probability that it will not unite ; or it may be left, very likely to interfere with movement; or it may be removed after a few days, which seems the best course. 4. Separation of the upper epipliysis.—Ossifying from two or three centi’es which are separated by violence only with extreme rarity, this epiphysis becomes one bone after the sixth year, forms a sort of cap to the pyramidal top of the shaft, and usually unites at twenty to twenty-one. To it the capsule is almost entirely attached, and it receives the insertions of the subscapularis, supra,- and infra spinatus, and teres minor. These connections with the glenoid fossa are almost always stronger than the epiphysial disc, and consequently before 20 separation of this epiphysis replaces dis- location—not 1 per cent, of dislocations of the shoulder occurring A A * 2 Fig. 247.—A Humovus of which the Head is absent, probably from fracture at the anatomical neck. The inner surface of the tuberosities is coneave and eovered with dense bone, so as to fit on the arti- cular surface irre- sented by the head of the scapula. This is long and concave from above down, naiTow and convex from before back. The bones ai'e strong. (University College Museum, No. 193a and 193b.)