1014 mSLOGATlONS. ISyiiiptoins.—Great variety of position as regards flexion or ex- tension of the leg has been observed. The complete antero-posterior displacements are frequently compound, and the bones of the leg being drawn up wards, considerable shortening is to be found. In dislocation backwards tlie head of the tibia makes a prominence in tlie popliteal space, resting against the back of the femoral condyles, while the condyles of the femur and the anterior surface of the patella resting upon them can plainly be seen and'felt (Fig. 418). In the complete displacement forwards the conditions are reversed, the prominence in the popliteal region being caused by the lower end of the femur, that in front by the head and ar- ticular surfaces of the tibia (Fig. 419). In the lateral displacements the prominence of the upper tuberosities of the tibia and head of the fibula to one or the other side, and the corresponding depression opposite, with the condyle of the femur projecting, signs. There is Fig. 418.—Appearance of Knee in Dislocation backwards. (After Pick.) are sufficiently obvious no difi&culty about the diagnosis of these accidents, the nature of them being usually obvious at a glance. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the femur with dis- placement backwards has been mistaken for a dislocation. In such an injury the patient will be under twenty years of age, and the movements of the condyles with the tibia should guide the surgeon to a correct diagnosis. Careful comparative measurements should also be made be- tween the condyles and the head of the tibia on either side. Treatuieiil.—By flexion of the leg and rotation, combined with traction in the flexed position and counter-extension from the thigh, these displacements may be reduced. In the complete dislocations powerful extension is often needful, counter-extension being made on the thigh. Afterwards careful splinting should be applied, and the ice-bag may be em- ployed, but with caution. A strict watch . xi should be kept on the toes and foot, should any injury to the vessels have occurred. The plaster-of-Paris dressing shou soon be applied, and the part kept immovable for at least six Fig. 419.- Dislocation of the Knee forw.anls. eeks.