TREATMENT OF TERTIARY SYPHILIS. 419 Congenital syphilis undoubtedly leads to a considerable number of cases of idiocy. 5. Tertiary disease of various viscera.—There is no viscus which may not be the site of gummatous disease, the liver and testicle being, perhaps, the most often involved. Sj)ace will not allow here of a due consideration of this very important subject; and as regards the testicle, the reader must be referred to the section on its diseases. In the liver, gummata may attain such a size as to be perceptible as rounded masses through the abdominal wall, and may be mistaken for malignant growths, etc. They veiy r.arely break down, unlike gummata in more super- ficial structures, and under ti’eatment may be completely absorbed, leaving large puckered cicatrices in the viscus. Great enlargement of both liver and spleen is not infrequently met with in tertiary •sypliilis, and may be attended with ascites. Gummata in the heart wall have occasionally led to a fatal issue, and they may occur in the lungs, simulating tubercular phthisis. Tertiary disease of Igmphatic glands is not very rare, and is singularly apt to lead to an erroneous diagnosis; it is of particular importance when affect- ing the mediastinal region, where by pressure on the large vessels it may cause grave symptoms. The pancreas, kidneys, and supra-renal capsules are of all the solid viscera the least often affected by tertiary syphilis. Lardaceous or amyloid disease of liver, spleen, kidneys, etc., may be indirectly due to tertiary syphilis. The treatment of tertiary syphilis,—The most important drug in the treatment of the various symptoms due to tertiary syphilis is unquestionably iodide of potassium. It is most effective in cases of gummata or gummatous ulceration, least so, perhaps, in those of arterial disease or of long-standing bone trouble. It must be given in increasing doses, freely diluted, and it is best tolerated if combined witli carbonate of ammonia (e.g. in the form of aromatic spirits of ammonia). The most striking differences are met with in the tolerance of iodides ; some patients suffer from iodism (marked depression, coryza, pustular eruptions on the skin, etc.), with such small amounts as ten grains in the day, others can take three, six, or even twelve drachms daily with benefit. The iodides of sodium and ammonium may be given with, or to a large extent instead of, the potassium salt; whilst less liable to depress they are apparently not quite so effective as the latter. For symptoms of the “ intermediate ” stage, and for many of those of the definitely gummatous type, it is advisable to give mercury as well as the iodide, and tliis may be done in the form ot tlie liquor hydrargyri perchloridi, of mercury and chalk pills or by inunction. The green iodide is not to be recommended, as it is extremely apt to cause diarrhoea, gastric pain, etc. It is best to persevere with the treatment for some few weeks or even months alter the symptoms have cleared off, and some authorities recommend that a mercurial course should alternate with or follow the iodide one.