INJURIES OF BONES. 752 but practically this may be set aside. It is sought for by gently though firmly grasping the limb above and below the s.uspected point, and endeavouring to produce angular movement, and shifting the hands up and down until the whole bone has been examined. As a rule it is easily obtained in parts containing one bone, or two if both are broken; not so when only one of the two has suffered, especially if it be the radius or fibula, to which the ulna or tibia acts as a splint, Each bone must then be carefully examined along its length, the fingers grasping it rather than the limb; the same applies to a metacarpal or metatarsal bone. With the fibula, and to a less extent with the radius, it will be found useful to support the fingers or thumbs, as the case may be, of the examining hands upon the tibia or ulna, and to press the suspected bone towards its fellow; if broken, it will be felt to yield unduly, and to lack its usual spring, and the point of yielding will soon be ascertained. When a bone capable of rotation is broken so high, and perhaps under such deep covering, that angular movement is difiicult to detect, the shaft may be rotated with one hand, whilst the other, if possible, grasps the upper end firmly, to determine whether the two move together; if they do not, immobility of the upper end is conclusive evidence of abnormal mobility in the length of the shaft. This can be well carried out in the humerus and femur, up to the great tro- chanter ; it is far more difiicult to be certain whether the head of the radius moves or not, for it presents no irregularities, can be felt only posteriorly, and is covered by muscle even there. When the neck of the femur is broken, we cannot feel that the head does not accompany the shaft in rotation; but a hand on the trochanter may feel that its movement is abnormal, for, instead of describing a considerable curve with the neck and head for its radius, it passes through a smaller and smaller arc in proportion as the fragment of neck in connection with it is shorter, until, in fractures of the base of the neck, it merely rotates like the shaft on its own axis. But though the detection of abnormal mobility is a certain sign of fracture, the absence of this sign does not negative fracture ; it is absent in many incomplete and in firmly-impacted fractures, and may be so slight in deeply-toothed and locked fractures as to defy detection—especially when the bone is one of two, and deeply placed. It is evident, too, that in such a fracture the head would rotate with the shaft. Sometimes, with processes torn oflF, or in fractures of short bones, it is impossible to seize or so to act upon the fragments as to produce and detect abnormal mobility. (5) CrcpitHS.—The grating of one broken surface against another is felt rather than heard, though it may be audible at some distance. It is obtained by the same manipulations as have been described for the detection of abnormal mobility—rotation being specially useful The conditions of its production are the existence (a) of abnormal mobility, and (b) of contact between the fragments. But a single, certain click is often obtained in fractures of the fibula, ribs, or otlier bones when we cannot detect the abnormal mobility, and may