SUPPURATION'. 96 blood. ]\Iy own opinion, however, is that it is a direct effect on the vessels of the circulation through them of the products of the bacteria which are keeping up the septic condition. Tliis form of degeneration practically only occurs where there are suppurating wounds, and it is most usually found in cases of tubercle where the suppurating wounds remain a long time open; and further, the fact that the disease in the first instance affects the wall of the small arteries seems to bring the pathology into relation with changes in the con- dition of the blood circulating through the arteries, just as we have the condition of endarteritis set up in various other circumstances where irritating materials, such as alcohol, acetone, etc., are circulat- ing in the blood. The result of this condition of the arteries is, more especially with regard to the kidneys and the intestines, that they become leaky, resulting in increased secretion (which is albu- minous) by the kidneys and in diarrhoea, which ultimately assumes the form known as colliquative diarrhoea, and cannot then be arrested by any known means, and which leads in the course of a few days to the death of the patient. Treatment of chronic abscess.—As the above mentioned results only appear after a chronic abscess is opened, it is evident from our present knowledge that they are directly due to septic decomposition taking place in the wound; hence, in tuberculous abscesses we must be particularly careful to employ all the best measures for preventing the entrance of bacteria—in other words, the abscess must be treated rigidly aseptically. If this be done, none of these troubles, namely, profuse suppuration, septic diseases, hectic fever, amyloid degeneration, occur. Ample evidence of this has been afforded by the results of rigid asepsis in the treat- ment of spinal abscess, and I have elsewhere published statistics showing that a large proportion—something over 70 per cent.—of cases of spinal abscess treated by aseptic drainage recover completely without having passed through any stage of illness after the abscess was opened. (For an account of Spinal Abscess, S66 Art. XXXIX., Diseases of the Spine, Yol. II.) With regard to the treatment of these abscesses by drainage, it must be borne in mind that the wall is the essential part of the disease, and while treatment adopted simply with the view of evacuating the contents may, after a long time and with proper care, lead to recovery, yet by this plan the destruction of the disease is left to nature, and the result remains doubtful. Besides which, an open wound must continue for some months, into which, as the result of some error on the part of the surgeon, septic bacteria may one day enter and set up all the troubles which have been already alluded to. Hence, with few exceptions, simple drainage (of course under antiseptic precautions) of these abscess^ is now abandoned in favour of more vigorous measures, in which attempts are made to get rid of the wall more or less completely ; and the treatment of chronic abscesses may now be considered under the following three heads:— _ j- i. 1. The ideal treatment of chronic abscess is to dissect out tiie