986 DISLOCATIONS. Displacement of the head of the radius downwards will receive separate mention. Morbid anatomy.—In the dislocation forwards the head of the bone rests upon the front of the external condyle, or on the humerus. In the dislocation backwards the head of the radius impinges upon the back of the external condyle. The articular and external lateral ligaments are generally lacerated, and the oblique ligament may be torn in the displacement backwards (Fig. 397). Symptoms of the dislocation forwards.—The fore-arm is pronated and slightly flexed: there is an undue fulness on the outer side of the fore-arm, which appears shortened. The head of the radius can be felt rolling in its new situation. Complete supination is usually impossible, from relaxation of the biceps ; and on attempting flexion, Fig. 396.—Dislocation of the Radius, (a) forwards and (s) backwards. the movement is suddenly arrested by the head of the displaced radius being brought up against the front of the humerus. The biceps tendon may be felt at the same time to be unduly relaxed. The external, anterior^ and annular ligaments are torn. Treatment of the dislocation forwards.—The fore-arm should be flexed, and extension be made in tliis direction from the wrist, while the humerus is pressed backwards. The thumb of the hand, which presses back the lower end of the humerus, should also firmly force backwards the head of the radius by direct pressure. After reduction, the fore-arm should be kept flexed at an acute angle for about three weeks, to allow of the union of the ligaments and prevent tliFBiceps tendon from pulling the head of the radius forwards. This is best effected by moulding a leather or gutta- percha splint to the back of the arm and fore-arm. Difficulty may be experienced in reducing this dislocation, from the intetyosition of the torn orbicular ligament between the head of the radius and the ^'^^^^Simptoms of the dislocation backwards.—the fore-arm is slightly flexed and lield midway between supination and pronation.