hydbophobia. 303 . 1 series of twenty-five shortens the period one day a‘d after the number reaches ninety, the incubation period is reduced to little less than seven days. •c.nr-i Rabbits inoculated subdurally with virus thus intensified exhi^t svmntoms with the utmost regularity on from the sixth to the eLhth day the condition induced being one of paralytic rabms, Sm prelfmlnary stages of depression and excitement not being obseiwed. Dogs inoculated in the same manner develop rabies on tTeighth to the ninth day; but in these animals sometimes tie furioul, sometimes the paralytic, form is observed. This ^Ppears to depend at any rate in part, on the amount of virus intioduced, t lai^crer doses producing the paralytic form. Subdural inoculation of rabbits with virus from an ordinary rabid dog from the streets on the other hand, does not produce symptoms before the fifteenth day. Morbid anatomy.—The lesions observed, although constant, un- less the individual has died as early as the second day from syncope, consist of little more than conditions of hypersemia or congestion. In the central nervous system early congestion is followed by the mim-ation of leucocytes into the perivascular lymphatic spaces and the interstitial neuroglia, and small parenchymatous extravasations of blood may also occur (Allbutt, Coats, Gowers, Greenfield). The chancres in the central nervous system, however, are frequently concentrated in localised areas, so that the whole must be carefully examined (Horsley). Congestion is also found of the larynx, trachea, lungs, fauces, pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach, and often hfemorr- hages into the mucous membrane of tlie latter organ. Congestion of the peripheral nerves, especially of the vagus, and of the sympathetic system, has been noted, and accumulation of leucocytes in the salivary glands, in the mucous glands of the larynx, and in the kidneys, has been described by Coats. Symptoms. Local.—The local symptoms are usually insigni- ficant. The wounds heal readily, as a rule, without local thickening or glandular enlargement; both the latter conditions have, however, been observed, but it is an open question as to whether the changes may not have been due to a contemporaneous infection of another nature, or to the local treatment adopted. Prior to the development of symptoms, subjective sensations of heat, tingling, or pain have been noted; occasionally, severe lancinating pain in the course of the sensory nerves. In other cases the wound has been observed to break down, and produce a small amount of thin purulent fiuid. Occasionally a crop of vesicles has been observed to develop around the site of the wound (Piorry). Beyond these local vesicles, an eruption of vesicles in the oral cavity, on and beneath the tongue, on the cheeks, around Stenson’s duct, and about the tonsils, have been described (Marichotti). These are said to occur only between the third and twelfth days after inoculation, so that, even if constant, their presence would often be overlooked, since they precede the development of general symptoms. General.—These vary in degree, but, as a rule, may be divided