113 NON-INFECTIVE ULCER. the ulcer becomes filled with masses of decomposing epidermis. These ulcers are supposed by some to be essentially pressure ulcers, starting in the first instance like the ordinary pressure ulcer, with the formation of a callosity. The pressure is kept up by the growth of the epidermis down the sides of the ulcer, thus leading to the foi'ination of a hard circle, which presses on the deeper parts. These ulcers are very chronic, and will not heal under rest or the oi’dinary methods of treatment, the reason being the presence of this epidermic growth down the sides of the ulcer, preventing the adhesion of the two sides to each other. (See also Art. XXVII.) 12 Pliagcdsenic ulceration.—Any of these ulcers, more especially the ones earlier described, may become attacked by some specific infection, such as the diphtheritic or phagedenic poison, with the result that there follows the development of what is known as a diphtheritic or phagedenic idceration. I shall speak of phagedena more especially in connection with gangrene; and it is not necessary, therefore, to do more here than simply to mention the existence of this class of ulcers. (■S'ee page 149.) Treatment of the chronic non-infective ulcer.—The con- ditions which are necessary for the healing of an ulcer are that the surface of the sore must become level with the surrounding parts, that the margins of the sore must be movable and contraction must be possible, and that the granulations on the surface must be healthy. The principles of treatment are therefore in the first place to get rid of the various causes which are keeping up the ulcer- ation, and in the second place to improve the condition of the surface and the margins of the ulcer. These principles may be arranged under four heads— (1) The first essential in the treatment of all ulcers is rest. As I have already said, any movement of the part will tend to keep up the ulceration; and therefore all movement of the affected area must be completely abolished. Hence in most cases the limb should be fixed on a splint, so arranged as to prevent the movement of the joints above and below. Further, it is of essential importance in the treatment of ulcers to place the circulation of the blood through them under as favourable conditions as possible. Hence the depen- dent position of the part, hindering as it does the venous return, must be abolished, and consequently, for the most rapid healing of ulcers, rest in bed is advisable; and not only rest in bed, but elevation of the limb, so that the sore is at a higher level than the heart. The improvement which follows absolute rest and elevation of the limb is extremely marked in many instances, more especially in cases of callous ulcer, where, without any other special treatment, the thickened condition of the tissues around will rapidly subside, and the surface of the sore become healthy and on a level with the surrounding skin. The retui’n of the blood from the part may also be favoured by massage, which should be combined with rest .in the elevated po.sition. In employing massage in the case of callous ulcer, the area operated on should in the first instance be the upper part