673 LYMPHOMA. small in thin, wiry persons, and large in individuals of soft fibre. In emaciation from any cause the glands waste, but the transition between indolent enlargement, due to a condition of the tissues from which the lymphatic vessels arise and a morbid change, is often imperceptible. In cases of prolonged su])])uration amyloid degmiera- tion is not infrequent, and commences with a hyaline thickening of the reticular trabeculm, and as this increases the lymphoid corpuscles diminish. The follicles of the lymphatics are often stained by the retention of foreign matters conveyed to them through the lympha- tics. This is most frequently observed in the bronchial glands through the deposit of matters inhaled with the air, and varies with the occupation of the patient. If the substance be large in amount. Fig. 189.—Mass of Lympliadenomatous Glauds from the Axilla. (Lancereaux.) it leads to shrinking of the gland, through increase of fibrous tissue and proportionate discoloration of the reticulum. The disease first described by Dr. Hodgkin under the title of Lymphadenoma as a painless hypertrophy of lymphatic glands, more commonly occurring in the neck, but often in other and sometimes in many I’egions, may be to a certain extent subdivided ; but the characteristics first pointed out by Dr. Hodgkin are more or less common to all forms. The enlarged glands increase gradually, though intermittently and without pain. They never suppurate. At first the glands are separate and distinct, but later they may become confluent, and form large lobulated masses, and may be followed by lymphatic growths in various organs, particularly the spleen. Three conditions may be described. (1) Lyni|>lioiiia.—In simple lymphoma, unassociated with any diathesis, a gland usually in the neck, but often in the gi'oin or axilla, or other parts of the body, enlarges gradually and painlessly, without signs of inflammation. Sometimes this may appear to arise as the result of irritation; but on removal of the cause the increase of size continues. The health is not affected, though one or two neighbouring glands may be implicated, and may unite to form a lobulated tumoun w