COURSE OF ANEURYSM. 601 (A Obstruction of an artery may be caused by an anemysm ■ i wavs • (1) The clot in tlie aneurysm may extend m two oi tl or a portion of it may be detached and ^nto th^aiS^ embolus; (2) the mouth of a branch miy be involved in the sac, and first stretched and displaced, and tlipn obliterated • (3) it is stated that the sac of an aneu^sm may eSr°e to compress the vessel from which it sprin^i but S this there is considerable doubt. The obstruction of the arterv will have its usual signs and consequences. (d) Syncope is a not infrequent eflect of large aortic aneurysms, as has been already stated (page 594). Course and terminations.—lu every sacculated aneurysm there are two opposing forces and tendencies. The pressure of Jlood tends to its progressive enlargement, and this is opposed y thickening and strengthening of the sac and the coagulation of the blood within it. In some cases these forces are so evenly balanced that an aneurysm remains .stationary even for years. As a ru e, this balance is not maintained, and the aneurysm either enlarges under the influence of the blood-pressure, or advances towards spontaneous cure; sometimes alternations between one and the other are observed, as the conditions in the aneurysm vary. The mam conditions influencing the course of an aneurysm are the strength of the cardiac contractions—habitual and occasional,—plethora, and the obstruction offered by the arterioles, the resistance off'ered to its growth by the parts around it, t'lie presence or absence of clot withm ft, and the intensity of the chronic inflammation set up around the sac, on which the continual growth of the sac largely depends. Many other circumstances, such as the nature and importance of the parts pressed upon, affect the clinical course of a case of aneurysm, but we are just now only concerned with the pathological progress of the aneurysm itself. Tlie cure of an aneurysm is in every case only obtained by obliteration of the artery from which it springs. This statement rests not only upon the authority of Scarpa, who first propounded it, but is borne out by all clinical and pathological experience. So far as the aneurysm itself is concerned, the process of cure consists first in the filling of the sac with coagulum, and secondly in the organisa- tion of this coagulum. We have already studied the mode of forma- tion of clot in an aneurysm. The organisation of the clot is effected in precisely the same way as that of a thrombus in an artery, but the process is less rapid owing to the absence of the endothelium— that is to say, plasma cells pass from the sac into the clot, disin- tegrate and absorb it, and replace the clot by a vascular fibro-cellular tissue. This process, taking place from the pei'iphery towards the centre, finally reduces the aneurysm to a mass of fibrous tissue, con- siderably smaller than the original tumour. The first step—the fill- ing of the sac with clot—may and often does occur without the second step—organisation of the clot—and it may be mistalcen for “cure,” and this mistake explains many disappointments met with in