SYPHILIS. 400 erythema, or ulcers ; and there is a distinct danger of oedema of the glottis supervening in bad cases, and causing death unless a prompt tracheotomy be performed. A common sequela of syphilitic glossitis or of mucous patches elsewhere in the mouth, provided they last for a long time, is the development of white, warty areas, which may prove very persistent. Diag-iiosis and treatment.—From follicular tonsillitis— ulcers due to sharp teeth, abuse of smoking and spirit-drinking—and herpes of the mouth, the secondary syphilitic lesions require to be carefully distinguished. The “ smoker’s patches ” may be found on the tongue, occasionally on the faiices, or as triangular areas of thick- ened white mucous membrane, extending backwards on either cheek from the commissures of the lips. Acute tonsillitis is much more painful, accompanied with more swelling of the soft palate, etc., and with more fever and general constitutional disturbance than the secondary syphilitic ulcers. In both the nearest lymphatic glands are liable to be enlarged, but in a more marked degree with non- S{)ecific tonsillitis than with syphilis. The treatment consists chiefly in the administration of mercury (and in many cases of bad throat affections it is desirable to give iodides at the same time, even though the patient be in, the early secondary stage), but also in various local measures. Smoking should be strictly prohibited, and if alcohol be allowed at all, it should be in the form of a glass of claret with the chief meal. Generally, it is advisable that the patient should entirely give up both alcohol and tobacco during the secondary stage, especially if the throat or tongue be at all affected. A gargle of alum (5 to 15 grains to the ounce), of chlorate of potash (10 to 20 grains), or of perchloride of mercury (^ to 1 grain to the ounce) should be fre- quently used, Avith special care in the case of the last-named drug. Painting the mucous patches with a solution of nitrate of sih-er (5 to 20 grains to the ounce), or of chromic acid (in the same pro- portion) is often of the greatest service if repeated every few days until healing begins. A few obstinate and severe cases of ulceration may require more energetic treatment, such as cauterisation Avith the acid nitrate of meremy. Sometimes syphilitic ulcers of the tongue, cheek, etc., may be kept up by the irritation of sharp or decayed teeth, or of badly- constructed tooth-plates, and attention should be directed to these points in the treatment. When the mucous membrane overhangs a wisdom tooth, it is especially liable to give trouble if the mouth be attacked by syphilitic lesions, though it is rare for the tooth to require extraction on this account. It is almost needless to point out that very hot fluids, mustard, pepper, and other condiments, should be avoided in all cases of syphilis of the mouth. If the ulcens cause much discomfort or pain, the frequent use of marsh-malloAv lozenges is very soothing and quite harmless.