351 TEE TUBERCLE BACILLUS. Tn comparatively rare instances, however, a transformation into fibrous tissue obliterates the phenomena of disease, and leads to a ^ which is one of cure, although not precisely one of recovery. S is neve’r estabfished. The fibrous change is seen in the most chronic and most gently progiessmg cases._ In the place of elaborate tubercle formation there is simply left an ill-defined mass of fibrous tissue—a cicatrix, in fact. The process differs in no way from that observed in inflammatory conditions of a less destructive kind. A scar is produced and that scar, as a rule, remams^soUnceg this rare change is noted the tubercle is eradicated, the disease is healed, and the tubercle bacillus is no longer ^The^^”bacillus.—The bacillus of tubercle has been already described on page 34 of this volume. A few points need only here be alluded to. . , i j. c The tubercle bacillus is very persistent, and has great powers of resistance to destructive agencies. Oornil and Babes show that it will live for seventy days at ordinary temperatures in sterilised Seine water. It retains its infective power after very long exposure, after having been dried and kept for months, and after having been placed in a putrid solution. Heat destroys it most satisfactorily, but germicide solutions to be destructive have to be strong, and carbolic acid would appear to be more potent in this connection than corrosive sublimate. It is very resistant to the action of the digestive fluids. It throws best at about the temperature of the body. It needs water forlts development. It is an obligate parasite, and can only flourish on the living body of higher organisms. _ _ The bacillus is introduced into the body in many ways. It is inhaled with the air. It is swallowed with the food. It finds an entrance through the mucous membrane of the mouth. It may be conveyed by an inoculation through a breach in the skin. Its presence has been demonstrated in the air and dust of looms occupied by phthisical subjects, in the milk of tuberculous cows, and in the discharges from tuberculous patients. It is met with in all forms of tuberculous disease, although its distribution is very irregular. The number of bacilli found in the tissue is not always proportionate to the severity of the local changes. The parasite is most particularly to be met with in advancing lesions. It would appear to be freely transported by the blood. It has a peculiar affinity for certain parts, such as the serous membranes, the lung, the spleen, the kidney, the intestine, and the tissue of bone. The transmission of tubercle.—The demonstration of a bacillus as an essential feature in the entourage of a tubercle would of necessity involve a question as to the possible transmission of tuberculosis from one individual to another. It will be convenient to consider the subject of transmission under the following heads;—(I) By inoculation; (2) by respiration ; (3) by cohabitation; (4) by feeding.