REPAIR OF FRACTURE. 757 interior, the plug of medullary callus becomes first cancellous, and is then gradually removed, the continuity of the medullary canal being thus restored. Red marrow I’eplaces it, then this gives way to yellow marrow. When there has been little or no dis- placement, the seat of a fracture becomes unrecognisable in a rabbit in twenty-six to twenty-eight weeks; in man the same occurs, but only after a much longer period. Even the interstitial callus, in which at first the course of the vascular channels is similar to that in the periosteal callus, becomes so modified by those interstitial changes of absorption and deposit which con- tinue throughout the life of a bone, that it is indistinguishable from the rest of the compact tissue. When there is marked lateral displacement, the ends of the fragments remain sealed with compact tissue, covering a Uttle cancellous bone. The compact walls in contact with each other may remain liable to severe strain, in which case there is no attempt made to re- store the medullary cavity; but in other instances, bridges of callus fill- ing up angles tend more and more to convey weight and strain from one fragment to the other, with the result that compact portions of the shaft be- come functionless, and are consequently rarefied, or even entirely removed. Nor are the changes after fracture with permanent didocation of frag- ments limited to the seat of fracture. Altered curve alters the statical con- ditions under which the repaired bone must work, and gradually its architec- ture is changed. Some of the altera- tions—as change in form and position of a joint surface—may be striking. In the repair of comminuted frac- tures, the loose fragments are set, as it were, in the callus tumour after this has ossified, dense pieces of shaft will be seen on section, contrasting with the looser new bone around. The ultimate fate of these fragments has not been Avorked out. Frequ^tly, too, fragments are so dislocated as to project like spines into the soft parts; these may serve as points of attachment of muscle and show little tendency to absorption (Fig. 251). Fissures of flat bones are often poorly repaired. In the skull where practical immobility is secured, little or no callus forms; the Fig. 220.—Section of tlie SImft of a Femur united after Fracture with angular Deformity to show the com- plex arrangement of cancelli be- tween the anterior wall of the lower fragment and tlie lower end of the upper, and the buttress of dense bone in the angle posteriorly. (Uni- versity College Museum, No. 2C9.)