675 ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. Elephantiasis Arabum, lymph scrotum. certain countries, particulai’ly tbc West Inches, the Brazils, China, India, and Australia, the lymphatics form the habitat of the embryos of a mature nematode worm—the filaria sanguinis hominis (see page 331)—and. by setting up inflammation, or otherwise blocking the circulation, give rise to various diseases. The parasite is introduced into the human body either by absorption from the surface through bathing, or by drinking water in which the embryos, freed from the dead bodies of mosquitoes, which act as intermediary hosts, have fallen. The female, which has been found in the lymphatics, is a fine thread-like worm of white colour, from 3i inches long and inch wide. It is viviparous, the embryos measuring^ to -35V0 enclosed in a delicate sheath, and when freshly removecl exhibit lively eel-like movements, and when searched for at night about 10 to 100 can be counted on a slide. (See Fig. 59.) If looked for during the daytime, few or none can be detected, the cause of their disappearance being a matter of dispute. Dr. Manson’s view as to the causation of stasis in the lymphatics is that the parent filarise occupy the lymphatics ; and if the lymph channel be free, the embryo will be carried with the blood without necessarily causing disease. But if the lymjih channel be obstructed, the embryo will be confined to the distal branches of the occluded lymphatic. He further believes that aborted ova escajjiug from the female, being too large to pass through the lymph glands, act as emboli, and cause stasis of lymph, this condition spreading backw'ards until the whole of the glands connected with the vessel into whicli the female ejects her ova are obstructed, Dr. Steplien Mackenzie, v/ho has minutely studied the subject, suggests that the presence of the parent worm alone may be sufficient to cause inflammation and obstruction, just as any condition which causes mechanical obstruction of the lymphatics may produce, as it does, all those conditions which are found to co-exist with the presence of filarife. Symptoms.—The leading clinical phenomena are (1) Chyluria, in which the urine is noticed to have a heavy milky appear- ance, due to the admixture of chyle, and sometimes of blood, and emits a heavy urinous odour. After standing, it coagulates into a reddish jelly, which, on examination by the microscope, shows quantities of minute granules of fatty matter, together with crystals of urinary salts, epithelium, and embryo filarise in a more or less moribund condition. This admixture of chyle is due to a distended or varicose condition of the lymphatics, brought about by the presence of these parasites, and leading to exudation of chyle, or to a fistulous communication between the lacteals and lymphatics in the lumbar legion, the pelvis of the kidney, the ureter, or bladder. Similar com- munications and results may be produced by the pi’essure of tumours on the thoracic duct or lacteals, when the urine presents similar appearances, but without the presence of filarire. The peritoneum and the tunica vaginalis are the seats of chylous effusions, due to a .similar cause (f.atty or chylous hydrocele). Varicose groin glands is w 2