138 GANGRENE. The tMrd degree of frost-bite is marked by the death of various portions of the tissue, more especially of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The skin becomes livid and marbled, large bulliB containing rusty-coloured serum form on the surface, and sloughs appear, which are dry, white, or black. This stage of cold is most usually the result of sudden exposure of the cold part to warmth, which leads to thrombosis of the vessels, or at any rate to violent inflammation of the part and death of the whole limb. In this condition there may be no general disturbance at all, but in some cases albuminuria appears, and there is a general septic infection. Before considering the treatment of frost-bite, we must in the first place refer to the measures necessary to avoid its occurrence. Of these the most important is the wearing of warm clothing, par- ticular attention being paid to the exposed parts of the body, so that they shall remain warm, and free from pressure. The diet should contain a large quantity of fat, and alcohol should be avoided as much as possible. Further, the parts should be kept thoroughly dry, for, as I have just said, wet cold is worse than dry cold, and any one who walks about with cold and wet feet is very apt to suffer from chilblains. Where a patient has been exposed to cold, one must attempt to avoid the effects of frost-bite, and more particularly one should be very careful not to apply heat too quickly. If the extremity has been exposed to cold, the most that ought to be done in the first instance is to rub the parts with snow or cold water, and, above all, not to bring the patient into a warm room, otherwise inflammation is sure to occur, and very possibly also extensive thrombosis of the blood-vessels. The patient should be kept in a cold room, and as he recovers dry friction should be employed, and at the same time he should have cold drinks with very little alcohol. As he gets a little warmer the drinks may be warm, and he may then be brought into a room of moderate temperature. The chief characteristic of gangrene resulting from cold is the slowness with which it spreads. Its tendency is to become a dry gangrene, and the line of separation being slow in forming, it is, as in senile gangrene, very apt to prove abortive, and the gangrene spreads beyond it, owing to the gradual obliteration of the vessms above. In the case of gangrene after cold the main question to be considered is that of amputation, and the usual rule is not to amputate in these cases, but to wait for a line of demarcation, because we cannot tell how far the gangrene ^vill extend, and some, indeed, not only wait for a line of demarcation, but even leave the part to drop off. While I quite agree that a line of demarcation should be waited for, on account of the difficulty that we have in knov - ing how much of the tissue is going to die, I should say that once wJhave a clear indication of the line of demarcation, and once it is evident that we have not to do with a superficial slough of the skin, amputation should be performed as soon as Pf distance above that line. The rules, in fact, must be modified undei