SYPHILIS. 408 typical form is the sclerosing: osteitis, or chronic inflammation of bone, periosteum (and perhaps the medulla), leading to the formation of dense new osseous deposit. This may be formed along the whole length of a bone, or may occur as a more localised swelling, then termed a node. With the thickening of the bone on its outer aspect goes a corresponding diminution of the medullary cavity, which may become entirely obliterated. This syphilitic osteo-sclerosis is, as a rule, markedly painful in its early stage, and the pain (of an aching or boring character) may persist for many weeks or months. It is usually worse at night, when the patient has nothing else to distract his mind, and when the vascular dilatation is perhaps at its greatest. But to suppose that the nocturnal cha- racter of a bone-pain is proof of its syphili- tic origin is absurd, for nearly all forms of persistent pain are worse at night. That of syphilitic osteitis is remarkably amen- able in most cases to iodide of potassium, Pig. 82.—Section through Pemur with Gummatous Node, though occasionally it a, Baisrd re ioeteuiu; 6, new fibrous deposit; cdte of new ia ac bone; d, cavity containing ibickfiuid; e, guiuniatous infiltration acvcic tu ol the cancellous tissue. Pqj. additional use of opium, etc. In exceptional cases, where the suflnring is very great and unrelieved by iodides, mercury or other internal remedies, an incision through the periosteum or trephining the bone itself may be required. A second form of tertiary bone-disease is the gummatous, affecting either the periosteum or the medulla. If periosteal, it will probably soften and break down unless treated, and often produces rounded or oval excavations in the underlying bone. On the skull these smooth-edged circular depressions are remarkably characteristic of sypihilis (Fig. 84). If central (starting in the medulla) it may lead to considerable expansion, and perhaps to spontaneous fracture. If in the neighbourhood of a joint the node, whether gummatous or ossifying, may set up synovitis, and is extremely apt to be mistaken for a sarcoma (Fig. 82). Yet another form of syphilitic osteitis is that causing necrosis of greater or less extent, the process being usually a very slow one.