INJURIES OF BONES. 792 one fragment touches only a sound surface on the other. Each fragment is healed and rounded off. Mobility may be extreme (“flail- joint ”); and uselessness and atrophy of the bones are proportionate. 3. False joint is the rarest form. It probably develops from a close fibrous union of a roughly transverse fracture. The new joint is of the ball-and-socket type (Fig. 229), one fragment being hollowed out, the other rounded so as to fit; the surfaces are smooth and covered with dense fibrous tissue, fibro- cartilage, or even hyaline cartilage; a dense fibrous capsule, fairly distinct from the sur- rounding soft parts, holds the ends together, and its smooth inner surface lined with flat- tened endothelium secretes a synovial fluid. The resemblance to a normal joint is close, and is increased by liability to diseases of joints— as subacute synovitis and particularly rheuma- toid arthritis, all the signs of which may be found. Causes of defective union.—This is a difficult subject. Frequently no cause is dis- coverable, the subjects seeming to be in perfect health. Again, obstacles which in some cases appear to be causes of non-union, in others have no obvious effect—even though they are well marked. The causes are general or local. The general causes produce general depression, and it is thought impair the bone- forming function ] they are frequently present without observable effect. Starvation, as many observations on besieged troops show, often delays union ; so also does hmmorrhage. Preg- nancy and lactation have a very doubtful effect. Acute febrile illnesses may delay union for months, or cause absorption of callus formed before their onset, as has been specially observed in the case of pysemia. Callender made the interesting statement that he had never seen delayed union in a child from scarlatina, nor in any patient from erysipelas. Any chronic wasting disease might be suspected as a cause. Syphilis in its early stages has little or no effect • possibly when producing cachexia it may act more strongly, but (Tur^atous infiltration of a bone is the most likely 'yay for it to exert its influence. Sometimes antisyphilitic treatment is efficacious in bringing about union—again, it has no effect; but this is hardly an argument against the influence of syphilis; for against clearly syphilitic lesions may be quickly successful in one patient but without effect in another. Both syphilis and fracture Fig. 229.—A false Joint of the Ball-and-sochet Type. The two frag- ments are held toge- ther by a dense fibrous capsule, the interior of which is in parts fasci- cul.ated, and gives at- tachment to clusters of small pedunculated bodies. Otherwise the inner surface is smootli and shining. The end of the upper fragment is slightly concave, that of the lower con- vex. (University Col- lege Museum, No. G2.1