1056 DISEASES OF JOINTS. agents Cure of the condition when well marked there is none known; the structural changes cannot be repaired. We may, perhaps, arrest the rapid progress of degeneration at the outset by appropriate treatment, or when advanced relieve the suffeiing caused by it, but more than this we cannot claim. The general strength of the system may be improved by nourish- ing food of a light digestible kind, and by warm clothing, fresh air, and tonics. Again, if the blood be loaded with effete products, the result of improper food or excess in eating and drinking, we may by simplifying the diet and the use of laxatives and emunctories, and by encouraging the action of the skin by the employment of Turkish baths, massage, etc., effect a good deal. i. i : Locally, the nutrition of the part involved may be much helped by protecting it from the Adcissitudes of the weather by warm cover- ino's of cotton-wool or flannel. Douches and hot baths are also some- times of use, and counter-irritation may even be resorted to occa- sionally with benefit. Pain may be relieved by anodyne apphcations, such as belladonna or opium, I have also found that carbonate ot lithia and iodide of potassium possess the power of relieving the pain of this disease, although an explanation of the fact is not easy. Of the benefits accruing from the use of certain mineral baths there can be no doubt. Thus I have known patients very much improved by residence at Wildbad, and the use of its natural springs, when other treatment had been productive of no benefit. The other resorts generally regarded as of special use in this disuse are Puxton, in England, Suchon, in the Pyrenees, Vichy, Ems, Wiesbaden, and Carlsbad. But of all I give the preference to V ildbad which for some reason or other appears peculiarly suited as a resort for those affected with osteo-arthritis, gout and rheumatism. DISEASES OF LIGAMENTS. Primary affections of the purely ligamentous structures of ioints are exceedingly rare. When ligaments are diseased, it is nearly always due to extension from the neighbourmg synovnal membrane. ^This is only what we might expect when we remember that the structures in question play a more or less the functions of the joint, and consist of a highly diflerentiatecl Tnflaniination.—When ligaments are, however, severely strained, or actually torn, they may become inflamed. The process is, as a imle, slucr<rish the vascular supply being very limited, and the actual ceSr ele^ in the tissue few. They will be found m such a case more injected than usual, the vessels passing among their fibres or. nerhaps, increased in number. If this hypenemia Lts° loner, the whole ligament becomes permeated with leucocyte^ and tlmreby assumes a'softened, pulpy consistence, its individual fibres too being softened at the same time. The diagnosis of such a condition would not be difticult, in a