299 SNAKE BITES. feelin-^ of weakness, cramps, dyspnoea, and a sense of constriction around tlie chest. These symptoms last twelve to fourteen hours, and have been known to be followed by death. The stints of bees, wasps, and hornets give rise to more seveie symptoms than the bites of flies, especially when the insect is in an eSed state. Burning pain is the immediate resul^ and this may be followed bv more or less oedematous swelling. The pain is the more severe when the sting and poison sac of the insect remain in the wound: but pain and swelling usually subside rapidly when these are removed. Multiple stings, if numerous, may be more serious, prodiicinc^ more or less collapse ; or even death from cardiac paralysis. The locality of the sting is also of importance: thus stings of the eyelids cause much swelKng, and those of the fauces, mouth, and tono-ue, sometimes resulting from the introduction of the insect with fruit may give rise to troublesome oedema of the tongue or larynx. Treatment.—The treatment of fly bites seldom needs to consist of more than the application of lead lotion ; a weak carbolic lotion gives rapid relief in cases of mosquito bite. For stings, the appli- cation of an alkaline lotion, preferably weak liquor ammomm or sal volatile is the best treatment. Swelling may be treated with lead lotion. Symptoms of collapse such as follow some spider bites and stings, indicate the exhibition of stimulants. Alcoholic patients fre- quently sufier more severely from insect stings than healthy persons. lY. SNAKE BITES. Poisonous snakes.—The occurrence of venomous snakes in the United Kingdom is practically limited to the common adder (Pelias berus); in Australia the brown snake (Uiemenia superciliosa), the tiger snake (Hoplocephalus curtus), the black snake (Pseudechis poi'phyriacus), and the death adder (Acantophis antarctica) j in India the cobra (Naja tripudians) and various species of vipers ; and in America the rattlesnakes (Crotalus adamanteus, durissus, horridus, and miliarius), and the mocassin (Ancistrodon piscivorus), are more or less common. Venomous snakes are provided with a pair of glands situated at either side of the lower jaw, much resembling the parotid in position. Ducts extend from these glands to specialised teeth, either grooved or canalised to their apices, by means of which the poison is introduced into the wound. The teeth or fangs—usually two in number—are long and curved backwards ; but in snakes a special mobility of the upper jaw allows the fangs to be pressed vertically in the wound, while the poison is expressed by the special crotaphite muscle, which partly crosses the gland, aided by the musculature of the jaws. The wounds produced are double, pass vertically inwards; and in the case of large snakes the muscles are often penetrated, the depth of the wound depending not only on the muscles of the jaw, but also on the weight of the I’eptile and consequent force of impact with the victim. K* 2