mSEASFjS OF THE JAWS. 934 gum were formerly called epulides ; but when the juicroscope was employed to assist in the classification of tumoui’s, it was found that some epulides were sarcomatous, others fibrous, a few myxomatous, and so on. As a consequence the term came to have merely a topographical significance. It will be wise to restrict the term to tumours composed of fibrous tissue arising from the gums or from the peridental membrane. Fibromata (epuHides).—A fibroma arises either in connection with the root of a decayed tooth or fi'om the retained root of a carious tooth hidden by the gums. An epulis of this character is made up of fibrous tissue covered externally with the gingival mucous membrane ; it may be pedunculated or sessile, and occa- sionally two may be present. When freely excised and the stump or carious tooth (with which they are invariably associated) removed, the growth rarely returns. Although an epulis is seldom larger than a walnut, it may attain a size equal to the closed fist. Such a ■ tumour will exercise great pressure upon the dental arches, distort the cheek, alter the shape of the maxilla and mandible, encroach upon the palate, and even protrude beWeen the lips. It is important to bear in mind that some of the most malignant sarcomata in their early stage very closely simulate the innocent fibromata. Prognosis in such cases should be guardedly given. Sarcomata of the gums were referred to in the preceding section. Papillomata are not common, and are unimportant. They present the usual characters of warts in other situations. Fpitlielioma.—This is a frequent and very grave condition. It may begin in any part of the gum, but appears more frequently in the mucous membrane covering the lower, than in that of the upper alveolar processes. It occasionally starts at the edge of leucoplakic or ichthyotic patches, which are sometimes found on the gums as well as on the tongue and mucous membrane of the cheek. More frequently the disease starts near the stump of a carious tooth, and very quickly infiltrates the adjacent mucous membrane j thus, whilst it is e)’oding the bone, it is creeping along the mucous membrane towards the cheek on one side and the tongue on the other. The way in which epithelioma erodes such a firm and compact bone as the mandible is very astonishing. Similar eflfecte may be observed when the disease attacks the gums in relation with the maxilla; as the alveolar process is destroyed the cavity of the antrum is exposed, and a foul ulcerating chasm formed. One of the facts connected with epithelioma of the mucous membrane of the mouth and it matters little whether the disease begins on the tongue, cheek, hard or soft palate, or gums—is the extraordinary size which the infected lymph-glands in the neck sometimes attaii^ whilst the ulcer scarcely exceeds 1 cm. in diameter. This is worth bearing in mind, because an enlargement of the cervical lymph- glands in individuals past middle age should always induce the surgeon to examine the various recesses of the mouth and fauces