1048 DISEASES OF JOINTS. A section (Fig. 63, page 344) through the membrane at this stage will show the superficial cell layer intact in many instances, and underneath this innumerable leucocytes grouped in special zones, in the centre of which are larger “ epithelioid ” cells surrounding in most cases a large irregular mass of protoplasm with peripheral nuclei, the so-called “giant cell,” the whole constituting a “tubercle system ” or simply a tubercle (Figs. 65 and 66, pages 347 and 348). Of these several may lie within the field of the microscope with a low power, or in other cases only one. Besides these tubercles the synovial membrane will be seen to contain thin-walled vessel's in abundance surrounded by multitudes of indifferent exudation cells, and to possess a larger amount of new fibrous tissue in its substance than in the normal state (Fig. 431). This stage may last almost for an indefinite time in some cases, but as a rule the new tissue undergoes further changes before long. In favourable cases the whole process may be ar- rested at this point, and resolution may take place. By this is meant that pro- liferation ceases, probably owing to death of the ba- cillus, if not of its spores, and the exuded matter be- comes absorbed, most of the leucocytes wandering farther, and probably in the end entering the circulation through the lym- phatics. Some of them may become organised too; but in any case the whole tuberculised area is restored to an almost normal condition, with perhaps some fibrous thickening. But, unfortunately, this is not the rule, and in the majority of cases further changes take place in the granulation tissue and tubercles themselves. As the cells become heaped up round the centres of infection, the latter are farther and farther removed from their vascular supply, and eventually to such an extent as to be incapable of further existence. They, therefore, undergo fatty de- generation, and form small centres of caseous material in the centres of the tubercle systems (Fig. 67, page 349). On section of the membrane at this stage, these foci of caseation stand out to the naked eye as white beads in the centres of masses of red or pink granulation tissue. Some of them may have been situated so close to the joint surface of the membrane as to have involved the latter, on which they may stand out either as white prominences or, having broken, as round white-walled cavities open to the joint. Every size, from a pin point to the volume of a grape, may be seen in the same specimen. But without involving the surfaces of the synovial meru- brane, such foci may go on enlarging and liquefying until large, soft masses of caseous material are formed, known ^ cold abscesses. These may spread in any direction, and often ultimately burst into Fig. 431.—Synovial Membrane, thickened and infiltrated vdth tubercles. (From a Photo- graph by Prof. Cheyne.)