XI. MILITAET SUEaEEY. Bt Surgeon-Major ANDEJEW DUNCAN, I.M.S., M.D., B.S. Lond., F.E.C.S., 3rrf Ooorkha Rifles. The wounds met with in warfare may be classed as follows : I. Gunshot wounds: (1) From massive projectiles; (2) from musketry and rifle and pistol fire. II. Bayonet and sword wounds. III. Arrow wounds. I. GUNSHOT WOUNDS. These include all those resulting from the action of “missiles that have been projected by force derived from explosion ” (Long- more). They may arise directly from shell or bullet, or indirectly from objects such as pieces of stone set in motion by the above missiles. They are in their nature contused and lacerated wounds. In civil life we have chiefly to do with injuries produced by “ shot ” or pistol bullets. At a very short range, before the shot has had time to scatter, a severe lacerated wound may be caused. Pistol bullets cause a wound possessing more or less the character of that caused by a rifle bullet, though less damaging in their effects. Variety of bullet.—The injuries produced by musketry fire vary with the nature of the missile. We will first consider the difference in the effects caused by round and conoidal bullets. As regards (1) shape, the conoidal bullet acts chiefly as a wedge, having great penetrative and splitting powers, whilst the round bullet causes chiefly local effects. The round bullet also frequently lodges, whereas the pointed shape of the conoidal bullet tends to prevent tliis result. In its (2) smaller dimensions, the conoidal affects a narrower zone of tissue, and foreign bodies are less likely to be carried into the wound. The round bullet has greater stopping- power. In respect to (3) velocity, the round bullet quickly loses its initial velocity after leaving the barrel, whilst that of the conoidal is retained; and inasmuch as the destructive power of a bullet is increased proportionately with the square of the increase of its velocity, greater disturbance of the parts traversed is caused by the conoidal missile. But although the destructive action is more intense,