16 SURGICAL BACTERIOLOGY. erected at various points, and that it is only when these barriers are removed that bacterial invasion can take place. For example, no bacteria are found in the healthy bladder ; the external meatus of the urethra is so small, and the sides of this channel are so closely | apposed when urine is not being expelled, that bacteria never make ' their way beyond the entrance. Then too, owing to the constant contraction of the bladder muscle, the current is always in one direc- tion, so that unless bacteria be introdueed by means of a dirty catheter or sound, invasion of the bladder by bacteria is of very rare occur- rence. The restrictive action of the walls of the meatus and urethra is due to the direct action either of the cellular protoplasm, or of some secretion of the lining epithelial cells. The moist mucous membi’ane of the nostrils, of the mouth, and of the upper part of the pharynx is usually sufficient to catch and prevent the further passage of bacteria from the air into the respiratory channel, whilst the ciliated epithelium setting up currents away from the trachea, is constantly bi’inging about the return of solid particles to the upper part of the larynx. Other cavities appear to be protected by the action of the sphincters as well as by the secretions of the mucous membrane covering their walls. 10. Predisposition.—Although bacteria must now be looked upon as the prime causal agents in the production of certain sur'gical fevers, the fact is being daily more insisted upon that the old ideas regarding racAoL individual and tissiiiL^predisposition. are of very great importance in relation to infection. The whole idea of pro- tective inoculation and acquired immunity rests on the fact that these varying susceptibilities to various diseases are present in differ- ent species and under different conditions. Thus the tubercle bacillus finds a much more congenial soil for its growth and development in certain tissues, in certain people, and in certain species, than in others ; the extent and duration of the infective process varying with the degree of susceptibility of the tissues or organism attacked. On the other hand, it has been noticed that the tubercle bacillus itself may become so modified, by being placed under different sur- roundings, that it_m^ set up a modified form-Of tuberculosis. The importance of these two factors is very great, and should always be borne in mind when the question of infection is under consideration, as it is only by the careful consideration of many of the facts associated with these factors that the true meaning of bacterial infection in different surgical cases can be appreciated. It is much more easy to trace the local predisiwsing causes in surgical than in medical diseases. In the former, of course, we have a local susceptibility wherever wounds or lesions of the tissues (such as inflammations, ulcers, death of a part, Inemori-hage, accumulation of fluids in serous or other cavities, and the presence of foreign bodies, especially thqse of a porous or absorbent nature) in which fluid, removed from the influence of the surrounding tissues, may accumulate ; in this fluid, organisms carried in along with the foreign bodies, or following them, have a favourable nidus, in vliich