709 WARTS. Tt must, however, be noted tliat some forms of epithelial cancer are at first warty in structure, as, for instance, many cases of epithelioma of the glans penis, the lower lip and the tongue. The older the patient and the longer the warty growth has persisted, the greater is the risk of it passing into epithelial cancer, especially if irritated by being continually “picked at,” etc. Histologically, tbe stage of cancer is reached when there is not only epithelial down- growth into the corium, but this downgi-owth breaks up in an irregular manner amongst the cells of the latter. The multiple wavt.—We will now consider two vai’ieties of warts in which it is difficult to assign any irritative cause, and which occur in a disseminated form. The first is the multiple wart met with generally in young male adults or children, and especially prone to occur on the backs of the hands or fore-arms. They may be flattened, but are more commonly branched or Aliform, of a greyish colour (sometimes black from their tendency to collect dirt-particles), and have nearly always a narrow pedicle. They are unsightly, but cause no other trouble ; and their most remarkable feature is the occurrence in crops and their occasional equally sudden disappearance. The latter has led to various popular nostrums being vaunted as curative of warts, and amongst the drugs which have been apparently suc- cessful at times are sulphate of magnesia and arsenic given inter- nally. The surest way, however, of causing these warts to disap- pear is by local treatment, and one of the best applications is glacial acetic acid. This should be applied daily with a fine brush or pointed piece of wood, it is almost painless and causes the wart to whiten, shrivel, and drop offi Tbe process should be repeated if there is the slightest sign of re-appearance. Pure liquor arsenicalis, nitric acid, ethylate of sodium, and other caustics are sometimes used, and a very common plan is to treat each wart vigorously with nitrate of silver. The latter leaves an ugly black stain for some time, and the others are decidedly more painful, and no moi’e efficient than glacial acetic acid. The sessile wart.—The second form is the sessile wart, occurring in a large proportion of old people, sometimes on the face or other exposed part, but especially met with on the skin of the trunk.^ They are nearly always multiple, flat-topped, often brown or brownish-red in colour, and they may be soft and somewhat greasy to the touch. They persist indefinitely, and are of some interest from the fact that epithelioma or rodent ulcer (on the face) may start in connection with them; this sequence is fortunately rare. In any case where the cancerous change is suspected the growth should be excised freely, and when, as sometimes happens, a sessile wart on the face gives trouble by repeated haemorrhage on slight irritation, or IS unsightly, it may bo readily got rid of by cauterisation with a rop of nitric acid, nitrate of mercury, or glacial acetic acid. Warts on the g-enitals.—Warts on the genitals of both sexes have already been mentioned (they are apt to occur here in dogs and other animals as well as in man), but it must be noted that