632 ANEURYSM. formed and a rapidly-growing swelling; its outline is ill-defined ; its consistence varies Avitli the tension of the parts, and particularly with the proportion of clot; usually it is tense and firm; the skin 0^ ei it hecomes stretched and hlue, or stained with extravasated blood. There may be a distinct expansile pulsation in the swelling, but more often the pulsation is very indistinct, or even only a slight vibratory tremor. A bruit is generally to be detected at some part, at any rate, of the swelling, and occasionally there is a thrill. The pulse in the artei'ics beyond may be lost altogether, or only weaker than on the oj^posite side. If the main artery of the limb is the one injured, and if the injury divides it nearly or wholly across, the pulse in the vessels below is lost; but if the aneurysm is formed in connection with a branch of the main artery, or from a small wound of the main artery, the pulse beyond is not lost, only weakened, unless the pressure of the aneurysm is sufficient to arrest the arterial circulation altogether. The pressure on the veins causes lividity and coldness of the limb, and cedema, and this and the pressure on the nerves of the part cause a sense of weight and numbness. There is generally intense local pain, and this is some- times markedly relieved by compressing the main artery above the swelling. The lividity, mdema, and numbness may pass into moist gangrene. The greater the want of defined outline to the tumour, the more rapidly it grows, and the more marked the effect upon the circulation in the limb below, the greater the warrant for regarding this case as one of riiptured artery rather than of difiused aneurysm. The parts around the aneurysm may become inflamed, the skin being bright red and hot, and the superficial tissue cedematous, or an abscess may give rise to a “pointing” fluctuating swelling. The diag^nosis is usually made by recognising the rapid appear- ance of such a swelling soon after an injury or wound near a large artery, or the sudden enlargement of a smaller firm pulsating swelling under a cicatrix—the diffusion of a circumscribed trau- matic aneurysm. But considerable difficulty may be found in distinguishing this form of aneurysm from an acute abscess, and the difficulty becomes increased by the fact that the two conditions may be associated together. The diagnosis will be arrived at by paying careful attention to these points : (1) the exact details of the history of the case, noticing the precise order of events and their relation to the injury; (2) the signs of the swelling communicating with an artery—the pulsation, bruit, thrill; and (3) the interference vdth the circulation beyond, esjjecially the loss of pulse, but also the cedema and numbness, for the more marked these are the less the probability of the swelling being entirely inflammatory, and the greater the probability that it is aneurysmal. The circumscribed aneurysms are chiefly met with in the hand and foot, and the scaljD ; the diffused in tlie ham and axilla. Treatment.—(1) A circumscribed traumatic aneurysm may