670 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF LYMPHATICS. origin may be obscure ; tiie glands often become acutely inflamed and in this situation, owing to their confinement beneath the deei) fascia, any collection of pus is deep and extensive, and gives rise to considerable pain and swelling, witli redness and oedema of the skin before it makes its way towards the surface. In the pelvic remoil enlargement and suppuration of glands frequently occur, as°the result of products absorbed from an inflamed uterus. In all cases, the first efforts of the surgeon must be directed to the treatment of the primary focus, if it can be detected; the part must be cleansed and, if necessary, scraped, and lotions of perchloride of mercury, carbolic acid, or other antiseptic applied. Before suppuration has taken place, the pain and swelling of the glands will be greatly relieved by warm lead and opium lotions, or by hot boracic fomenta- tions, and in the less acute forms by the application of glycerine of belladonna. When suppuration is manifestly present, no time should be lost in giving exit to the pus, even if this involves a somewhat deep dissection. The surface of the gland must be exposed, the capsule incised, and a pair of dressing forceps inserted and opened. If the substance of the gland be much destroyed, all necrosed tissue should be removed with a sharji spoon, and a drainage-tube inserted for two 01' three days. The parts must be thoroughly syringed with an anti- septic solution and dusted with iodoform powder or scrubbed with iodoform emulsion. If only one gland has suppurated, those in its neighbourhood will subside. In the case of chronic enlargement, the removal of the gland may be necessary, on account of its un- sightliness or its tendency to recurrent inflammations. This involves a careful dissection, and must be performed without rupture of the capsule, the gland being cleared from its surroundings by the fingers or by blunt instruments. Tuberculous lymphadenitis. Pathology. — Tuberculous glands may occur in any part of the body, but are far most frequently met with in the glands of the neck, the mediastinum and the mesen- tery ; this frequency, as pointed out by Mr. Treves, being due to the extensive collections of adenoid tissue in the mucous membranes from which these glands derive their lymphatic supply. It occurs generally in individuals predisposed by heredity or other causes to the tuberculous diathesis, and is much more frequent in the young, though occasionally seen as senile scrofula in persons between seventy and eighty. The bacillus absorbed from the surface of a mucous membrane is conveyed by the lymphatics to a gland where it finds a suitable nidus and develops the tubercle, which is surrounded by an area of infiammation, and passes through all tlie various stages of the disease which are seen to occur in other tissues. {See page 340.) The condition may be confined to a single gland, or may be disseminated over many in the neighbourhood, or even thi'oughout the body. The further changes are characterised by a fatty meta- morphosis, which converts the substance of the gland into a wliitisli caseous material, often mingled with thick curdy pus, and contained within a thickened capsule. This pus, gradually accumulating,