COMPLICATIONS. Ul of the affected eye should be separated and the whole conjunctival surface very frequently washed out with weak bichloride of mercury solution (1 in 20,000) or iced boracic lotion. This is best done by means of an irrigator. Nitrate of silver solution (10 grains to the ounce) must be applied to the conjunctiva once or twice daily whilst the discharge is purulent and free, though its use is attended with risk if the discharge is scanty and the chemosis great. It should never be used in the solid form, since a slough would be certain to be produced. Iced compresses give relief, and should be applied in the intervals between irrigation. During the acute stage the lids must be constantly prevented from adhering, and the measures re- commended will require the continual services of a nurse both day and night. 9. Oouorrlioial rUeumatism. — Owing probably to the absorption from the urethral wall of the virus of gonorrhoea, in a small proportion of cases a very obstinate form of arthritis is set up. The knee, elbow, the joints of the foot and hand, are frequent sites, though it would be difficult to mention any single articulation which may not be involved. Further, the synovial tend on-sheaths of wrist or foot, the buvsse, the fibrous sheaths of nerves (especially the great sciatic), the plantar and other fascise, the sclerotic coat, and the iris, may be afiected with chronic inflammation secondary to gonorrhoea in both sexes. The most usual form is a hydrops of one or two joints and synovial sheaths, painful and very slow to clear off, starting as a rule three or four weeks after contagion. Very rarely suppuration follows in the joints with all the attendant dangers of pysemia; more commonly the disease ends by stiffening the joints, and complete ankylosis is not unknown. From acute rheumatism the hydrops due to gonorrhoea is known by the small number of joints affected, the absence of marked fever and sweating, and the chronicity of the disease. Cardiac complications are very rare, but not unknown; salicy- lates are practically useless in the treatment of gonorrhoeal rheuma- tism. This mainly consists in curing all traces of urethral discharge, in support and rest of the affected joints during the early stage, and massage with hot douches and the use of Martin’s bandages in the later stage. Blistering may relieve the pain at first. Internally, sandal wood oil, full doses of quinine or iodide of potassium, sulphocarbolate of soda (ten- to fifteen-grain doses) are each recommended by different authors, though unfortunately there is no remedy yet known which can be relied upon. 10. Cystitis.—Occasionally the gonorrhoeal infiammation spreads back to the neck of the bladder, and both acute and chronic cystitis may thus be produced. For the symptoms and treatment we must refer to Art. LI., Injuries and Diseases of the Urinary Organs, Vol. II. It should be noted that inflammation of the prostatic urethra may give rise to aching perineal pain, frequent and difficult micturition, or slight hsematuria, and this posterior urethritis has been often wrongly termed cystitis. Acute inflammation of the