264 INFLUENCE OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS. the discharges become offensive and ill-conditioned. Such patients otten die suddenly, others become exhausted or succumb to an intercurrent disease. The most favourable often make but a tardy recovery. •' t-reatment of fracture is often a difficult matter in the unwieldy bodies of the very corpulent. Plethora as a simple condition does not compromise the success of an operation. Indeed, the “full-blooded” pass through a sur- gical experience well enough, provided that the plethora depend upon no diseased condition. Alcoholism.—A scarcely worse subject for an operation or an injury can be foum.*d than is provided by the habitual drunkard. The condition contra-indicates any but the most necessary and urgent procedures, such as amputation for severe crush, herniotomy, and the like. The mortality of these operations among alcoholics is it IS needless to say, very high. ’ Many individuals who state that they “ do not drink,” and who, although perhaps never drunk, are yet always taking a little stimulant in the form of “ nips ” and an “ occasional glass,” are often as bad subjects for surgical treatment as are the acknow- ledged drunkards. Of the secret drinker the surgeon has indeed to beware. Even abstinence from alcohol for a week or two before an operation does not seem greatly to modify the result. A severe injury or an operation in an habitual or occasional drunkard is apt to be followed by an outburst of delirium tremens. It must not be assumed that an operation upon a subject of alcohol- ism must of necessity turn out badly. The evil result is, however, sufficiently frequent to justify a refusal to perform any but urgent operations, and the occasional fact that grave wounds in heavy nrinkers may heal kindly and well is rather an illustration of good fortune than of surgical success. Such injuries as lacerated and contused wounds and compound fractures call for special anxiety when met with in the persons of those who drink to excess. The simple fact is that the tissues of the alcoholic appear to be capable of offering but little resistance to bacterial growth. Tuberculosis.—On the whole, it may be said that tuberculous patients stand operations remarkably well, and this especially applies to children. In a large proportion of the cases the operation rids the patient of a long-abiding trouble, and a source of persistent irritation and weakness. It is sometimes surprising to note how a pale, wasted, cachectic-looking child will improve and gain in flesh and in looks almost directly after such an operation as amputation of tlie leg for the removal of a wholly carious foot. Some of the best examples—so far as a speedy recovery is concerned—of amputation at the hip-joint have been met with among tubei’culous children. It must be assumed that in these and in other cases there is a freedom from serious visceral disease such as lardaceous degeneration of the liver.