8UROIOAL BA0TBBIOLOQ Y. 42 nail-sliape. It forms soft, prominerit, porcelain-like colonies on the surface of a plate culture, and round yellowish colonies in the depth of the gelatine. On potatoes it grows readily at the room tem- perature, but luxuriantly at that of the body, giving rise to the formation of gas—hence the name—and is usually white or creamy in colour. In milk, in which it sets up an energetic lactic acid fermenta- tion, and in grape sugar solutions, it requires air, and gives rise to the formation of considerable quantities of carbonic acid gas and water. It does not form spores. It is associated with the summer diarrhoea of infants, and bears much the same rela- tion to peritonitis, though in a modified degree, that the Bacillus coli communis does. 3. Bacillus pyocyaneiis. — Bacillus pyocy- aneus, or the bacillus of blue pus, was first found by Gessard in the blue pus from wounds. It is a slender bacillus, with rounded ends, about the same size as the bacillus of mouse septicaemia, but slightly thicker, and is usually so small that it may be taken for a coccus. It grows rapidly at the room temperature. In a tube culture a funuel-shaped area of the gelatine rapidly becomes liquefied, and a bluish-green fluor- escence gradually spreads through the remaining solid gelatine. This coloration of the medium is even better seen in plate cultures, the whole of the gelatine not liquefied assuming a light green colour. On agar-agar there is a moist greenish-white layer’, the agar-agar becoming green and fluorescent (iig- 6). On potatoes rusty-looking colonies are formed ; these, when moistened with dilute ammonia, become green, or with dilute acids, red. A bluish colour- ing matter—pyocyanin—and a fluorescent greenish pigment have been separated. These organisms, when injected in considerable quantity, either subcutaneously or intraperitoneally, are pathogenic for both guineapigs and rabbits, set- ting up an acute cedema, purulent infiltration, or purulent peritonitis, as the case may be, the bacillu.s being found in the blood and in the fluids drawir oil from the affected areas. Given in smaller quanti- ties, it sets up local suppuration ; but the^ animal usually recovers, and remains protected against the action of considerably larger doses. 4. Proteus vsilffaris.—Another organism of some surgical interest is the Proteus vulgaris, one of the commonest of the putrefac- tive bactei-ia. It is a bacillus with rounded ends from P25p to 3 in length and 'G/i in breadth, occurring either as oval forms or as Ij ig. 0. — Cultiva- tion of Bacillus Pyocyaneus.