1027 SUBA8TBAGAL0IB DISLOCATIONS. inwards, and at the same time baclcAvards ; (2) directly backwards ; and lastly, (3) forwards, which is very rare. Subastragaloid dis- locations are generally incomplete, and most commonly oblique. The direct displacement backwards is less frequent than dislocation backwards and outwards, or backwards and inwards. Morbid anatomy.—In described cases the astragalo-scaphoid ligament has been found ruptured, and the lateral ligaments of the ankle also, to a variable extent. The interosseous ligament need not be entirely torn except in the complete displacements. The neck of the astragalus or one of the malleoli may be fractured. Blood- vessels, tendons, and nerves may be torn. The tendo A chillis is tense, drawing the calcaneum forcibly upwards, and one or other of the tibial tendons have been found tightly hitched against the neck of the astragalus. The ten- sion of the tibial tendons, with tough ligamentous fibres torn and wrapped about the bones, is a powerful obstacle to reduction. Tlie head of the astragalus may lie on the scaphoid, and project outwards or inwards; and the l)Osterior border is often found tightly wedged in the groove be- tween the articular facets of the calcaneum. In complete cases of displacement backwards, the head of the astragalus may rest on the cuneiform bones. Symptoms. — The literature of this dislocation makes it clear that various authors describe different dislocations under the same name; and the reader will do well, in perusing the followino- remarks, to remember especially that the astragalus retains its usual position to the • bones of the leg, that there is a certain amount of movement in the ankle, and that any projection of the head of the astragalus is not due to a displacement of that bone, but to the rest of the foot from it. Taking the symptoms of the oblique dislocation backwards and outwcirds, the. foot will appear shortened dorsally, and the heel engthened, while the tendo Achillis is pushed backwards. The toot IS a little extended. The rounded prominence of the head of tlie_ astragalus will lie on the scaphoid or cuneiform bones, and project internally. The inner malleolus is also prominent, and reaches the sole. The foot is everted, so that its outer border looks upvards, and the external malleolus is buried, the appearance being that of extreme talipes valgus. ^ In the displacement inwards and backwards the head of tliP astragalus projects externally, and the foot is inverted, the external II II Fig. 427.—Subastragaloid Dislocation of the Foot backwards. (After Pick.)