DISEASES OF JOINTS. 1098 extension to hinder the union of tlie cut surfaces. This may be done in some cases, but is a matter of great difficulty. In other instances it is more desirable to divide the femur below the lesser trochanter either with saw or chisel. If bony anchylosis after this is inevitable, the limb should be allowed to become stiff in a slightly flexed position. The general rules for the treatment of other forms of limitation of movement following upon disease of the hip joint will be found under the heading “Anchylosis of Joints,” page 1067. Neoplasms about the hip.—These are not common. When present they are most usually chondromata or osteo-sarcomata of the end of the femur or periosteum. The joint is only secondarily invaded, and is for a long time uninfluenced except in its movements. The considerations arising out of the presence of neoplasms about the hip turn entirely upon the question of the propriety or the reverse of amputation through the joint. When such a growth has been diagnosed near or in the hip, the question of operation or not depends upon the capability of the patient to bear the shock of such a severe procedure. But as the outcome will eventually be death if left untreated, amputation is justifiable in most cases. Cysts about the hip.—These are, on the whole, rarely seen. When present they are usually due to the distension of one of the synovial bursae of the part, and more rarely of pouches of the proper synovial membrane of the joint. The cause is chronic inflammation, usually of the tuberculous type. Thus the bursa of the psoas muscle may be distended, as in a case lately rmder my care. Treatment of these conditions is not satisfactory, but repeated aspirations and injections of the iodoform emulsion may be tried with advantage in some cases. In other instances, the greater part of the diseased synovial membrane may be cautiously dissected out. Lioose bodies in the hip joint are very rarely seen, and when present require the ordinary treatment of incision and extrac- tion from behind. I have only met with such a condition once, and then the case required no treatment. AFFECTIONS OF THE KNEE JOINT. In considering the affections of the knee, we have before us the same diseases as those we have just been considering in the hip joint, modified, of course, by the special conditions which surround tlie part. Simple acute synovitis of the knee.—This is a common affection, owing to the exposed position of the joint, which subjects it to extremes of heat and cold and to injuries of all kinds. Symptonss.—However caused, the symptoms are much the same,' Iwth subjectively and objectively, as in the case of the hip, just considered. The first thing noticed is stiffness, tlieu heat, and later, general pain and throbbing in the joint, which will be also tender to the