INJUIIJES OF BONES. 824 Fi passed deeply through the fibres of the triceps; or a screw may be put in downwards from the insertion of the triceps. For all these operations a considerable flap should be raised, inwards or out- wards. I have tried Robson’s operation once, drilling the lower fragment, short fibrous union resulting. When the fragments are wired or screwed together no splint is necessary, only a compressive dry dressing. Massage should be be- gun as soon as the wound has healed or sooner, and the patient encouraged to perform gentle movements. A long fibrous union may be excised, the fragments refreshed and wired or screwed with excel- lent result. Ankylosis in bad position, not yielding to forced movements, will probably require excision. Separation of the iippev epiphysis of the iiliia.—It ossifies at ten and joins at seventeen ; it scarcely forms a third of the olecranon. Separation of it is very rare. , ^ a. j i The coroaoid process is very rarely fractured unless un- reco<^nisable bits are chipped off in backward dislocations, which Mal°aif^ne thought frequent. The process, as Liston said, may be ;ither pushed or pulled off-by falls on the hand or by muscular action. He believed the latter cause to have produced the accident in a boy who hung for long on a wall, afraid to jump down Detachment of a considerable piece is said to cause swelling in front of the elbow, where the fragment may be felt; easy dislocation backwards of the ulna or of both bones and e^y reduction. Crepitus if the fragments can be approxmated. Union would probably be fibrous ; and Sir A. Cooper recorded a case behe.e to have been a fracture of this process m which the o^ra^^^ slinned backwards and forwards somewhat in extension and flexion. That b^y union is possible of a small fragment without dis- placement^is shown by Fig. 259, in which nrnepss and froiit of the radial head have been pushed off, paitiai rSion Wkwards o£ the bones ocem-recl, and the humerus to 60° or 60° would meet the requtoments. TIbc shaft of the winn is not commonly (2-o per cent.) broken alonl' lt occurs from direct violence, at the point struck ; or. in , 259 Union by Bone after Fracture and ' downward Displacement of the anterior half of the Head of the Kadius and of the Coronoid Process. The humerus, but little altered, lay in a socket formed by the sur- faces from which the above portions had been torn and the fragments themselves. No history. (University College Museum.)