gangrene after ligature of an artery. 5:3o coininunication between the two anterior cerebral arteries is free enouo-h to maintain the vitality of the front part of the brain, but that there is a great danger of fatal ansemia of the parts supplied by the middle cerebral artery, as tlie posterior communicating artery is unable to carry sufficient blood into it. Hemiplegia is a frequent result of ligature of the common carotid artery, and after death an abscess is frequently found in the parts that have been rendered aiitemic, tlie bloodless tissues ofiering no resistance to the develop- ment of pyogenic organisms which have reached tliem through the feeble stream of blood with which they are supplied. Moist gangrene is more often met with after ligature of an artery than is the dry form ; it occurs when venous obstruction is super- added to the block in the artery. This may be due to wound or ligature of the companion vein; or to a thrombus fox'ming in it, as the result of contusion or compression; or to pressure on the vein or veins by effused blood or a tumour—especially an aneurysm. In these cases the force of the heart is expended, first, in propelling the blood through the anastomotic channels, and then in overcoming the resistance of the capillaries; and there is no force remaining to propel the blood through the veins if any obstruction is offered. The application of heat or cold or an attack of erysipelas may cause death of a part whose vitality is lowered by ligature of its main artery, when no such effect would be produced on healthy tissues by influences of the same intensity. Either form of gangrene occurs more often in the lower than the upper limb. Extent.—The features of dry and moist gangrene are elsewhere described (page 129). Here we need only note that dry gangrene from obstruction in an artery may be of quite limited extent, or may involve the whole part up to the seat of ligature. Thus the circulation may only fail in the most distant parts—e.g. the toes—or a patch of dry gangrene may be occasioned by a thrombus forming in an artery, the seat of advanced calcification; or some particular anastomotic vessel may fail to enlarge : e.g. the posterior communicating cerebral artery. In such cases the gangrene is limited to a particular area of the primarily ansemic part. But in other instances, from great loss of blood or very feeble action of the heart, or advanced and general disease of the arterial system, or division or compression of many of the channels of anastomosis, the circulation in the entire part fails, and death occurs up to the seat of the ligature, or embolus, or other source of obstruction. Owing to the freedom of anastomosis around joints, the gangrene is not infrequently arrested at a joint. Moist gangrene, on the other hand, usually extends at once up to the level of the arterial obstruction, for its exciting cause is generally some form of venous obstruction at this level, which affects the circulation in the entire limb below. By infection of the tissues it may spread up the limb above the seat of ligature. The gangrene is usually noticed soon after the ligaturc—from the third to the tenth day is the most frequent time—but its occurrence may be delayed even so long as three or four weeks.