ULOE RATION. 112 swollen, red, and bleeds very readily, blood sometimes coagulating on, and adhering to, the surface, forming pi’ojecting clots. 8. Diabetic ulcer.—In patients who are afiected with diabetes it is not uncommon for wounds resulting from scratches or cuts to extend rapidly, and lead to the formation of an ulcer, the result partly of the condition of endarteritis present in this disease, and partly of the great proneness of the tissues to septic infection. These ulcerations spread rapidly, the skin around is inflamed and red, and most commonly, in addition to the ulceration, there are also visible sloughs of the skin or subcutaneous tissues. 9. UIcci’S tlic result of pressure.—Pressure ulcers especially occur on the sole of the foot, and result from long-continued but not necessarily severe pressure. The first effect of the pressure is to lead to thickening of the epithelium, and the formation of a callosity. If the pressure be continued, inflammation and suppuration occur beneath this callosity; and when the thickened epidermis is removed, an ulcer is seen, which heals with the greatest difficulty, and which extends if the pressure be kept up. The great characteristic of these sores is the marked thickening of the epidermis surrounding them, the sore itself being considerably below the level of the skin, very vascular, and with a tendency to exuberant granulations. The “ bed sore ” is considered in the article on Gangrene (page 134). 10. Ulcers due to deficient innervation.—In limbs which are paralysed it is not uncommon to find atonic ulcers, which develop with considerable rapidity, are painless, sometimes multiple, and often covered with imperfect granulations. These ulcers chiefly occur about the phalanges of the fingers and toes, and also on the sole of the foot, and are no doubt in many cases the result of long-continued pressure, and are usually described as pressure ulcers. In connection with these ulcers we may describe especially the variety which follows. 11. Perforatiug ulcer of the foot.—This occurs in parts of the foot which are subject to pressure, more particularly under the heads of the metatarsal bones, chiefly that of the great toe. In the first instance these ulcers present the appearance of ordinary pressure ulcers, beginning as a callosity, followed by suppuration underneath, but differing from the ordinary pressure ulcers in the rapidity with which they extend into the substance of the tissues. These ulcers generally attack men over forty years of age, and are not necessarily associated with any paralytic condition of the limb, being usually associated with tabes, or possibly in some cases with commencing peripheral neuritis. The ulcer may extend in depth till it reaches the bone, and then the bone becomes the seat of a rarefying osteitis, and ultimately may completely disappear, the metatarso- phalangeal joints also being opened. The ulcer thus presents a funnel-shaped appearance, its base being generally covered with reddish, warty granulations, and the secretion being of a very foul character. The epithelium spreads down \he sides of the funnel, and there is great proliferation of the epidermis, so that the cavity of