INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 608 ill tlie sheath of the iirtei'y, and increases until it covers over and surrounds the end of the vessel, and stops all escape of blood as by a pad. This is the external clot. Blood coagulates also on the divided end of the artery and occludes it, and for a variable distance within the artery—often up to the branch next above or below the wound. This is the internal clot. The coagulation of the blood is the essential part of the process; by itself, without con- traction or retraction of the vessel, it suffices. The contraction of the artery by narrowing the orifice lessens the force and volume of the stream of blood, and, together with the retraction, by drawing the artery within its sheath, makes room for the external clot, and also favours the occurrence of coagulation. By themselves, neither contraction nor retraction, nor the two together, suffice to arrest hfemorrhage, for even in those cases where the sudden contraction of the artery closes its cut end, it is only by the formation of an internal clot that the orifice is actually sealed over. The clot, then, is the essential means that Nature employs to arrest hsemorrhage. The most vital part of it is the portion that actually occupies the orifice of the vessel, and this may well be called the central clot; until that has formed the bleeding is not arrested, and with that, the rest of the clot may be, and sometimes is, dispensed with. The external clot is like a pad over the end of the vessel, holding in place the central portion, and resisting the force of the blood, which tends to displace it; it is a most valuable adjunct to the central clot. The internal clot acts as a buffer to protect the central clot from the full force of the circulation. The internal and external clots, therefore, though not essential, materially add to the security of the closure of the vessel j and the clot, as a whole, plays an im- portant part in the cicatrisation of the vessel. The natural (temporary) arrest of hsemorrhage is aided in par- ticular cases by certain other conditions. 1. Contusion of the artery.—If> in place of an artery being cut across with a knife, it is bruised and crushed, the more brittle inner and middle coats give way first and curl up inside the vessel before the tougher, but thinner, outer coat is severed. On the curled-up ends of the inner coats coagulation of the blood quickly takes place; and so it happens that in severe contusions, or by the use of an dcraseur which slowly crushes through the tissues, arteries of some size may be divided without even a drop of blood escaping from them. In such cases there is no external clot, the internal clot extends up the vessel as usual, and the curling up of the inner coats within the artery helps to occlude it, and also gives a wide surface for the attachment of the central clot; this makes it as secure as if supported by an external clot. 2. I^aceration of the artery acts in much the same way. The tearinor force soon snaps across the inner and middle coats, which curl up within the vessel, partially occlude it, and excite coagulation upon their upturned edges. The outer coat is drawn out until its elasticity is destroyed, and then it yields, and falls over the inner