VABJCOSE VEINS. 571 (h remorrhoicls), less often in tlie neck, upper limbs, and trunk. Very few veins are wliolly exemijt from it. It is chiefly observed as a disease of the superficial veins, but dissection shows that it affects very often the intermuscular and intramuscular veins also; but the main deep veins of the limbs, with the exception of the posterior tibial veins, are generally free. It has been met with in the internal jugular vein. The disease varies very greatly in its extent and distribution. It may be limited to one or more of the main subcutaneous veins, as either saphena, or to a limited ])ortion of it; or, leaving these veins free, it may involve only some one or more branches opening into them, or some of the small venous radicles in the skin; while in some cases all the subcutaneous veins of a part appear to be affected. It is stated that a superficial varix often com- mences at the point where a deep vein communicates with a superficial one, and that the enlargement is apt to be most marked at such situations. A varicose vein is not only enlarged transversely, but also in length. This elon- gation of the vein is often very great and more marked than the lateral dilatation; and as the ends of the vein are fixed points, it causes great sinuosity. It is not un- common to find a varix three times as fong as the healthy vein (Fig. 163). In some cases, however, the elongation of the vein is very slight. For exam[ile, the saphena vein may be greatly enlarged from the groin to the ankle, and may stand out under the skin as a straight tube, with perhaps only one short convolution near the knee. The lateral dilatation differs not only in degree in different cases, but in the same r'arix, pro- ducing often a marked pouching of the wall of the vein, and so adding to its varicosity. These pouches may, in large veins, attain to the size of a large cherry or a medlar. The best examples of them occur at the upper end of the internal saphena vein, where they form what may well be called “venous cysts” (Fig. 164). The wall of a varix is notably thickened, so that when cut across the vein gapes like a divided artery. The intima is thickened and shows longitudinal striae. Sometimes it is atheromatous, or even calcified. The thickening of the intima may be general, or especially marked at one part of the circumference of the vein (Fig. 165). It probably has an important influence in the production of thrombosis. Pig. 163.—A Varicose Vein. (Middlesex Hospital Museum.)