INHEBITED SYPHILIS. 427 Gummatous ulcers may also develop on any part of the body and are especially common on the legs, in association with osteitis of the tibia and fibula. Deep ulcers are also met with on the mucous membranes, e.g. the palate and throat, and ai-e apt to take on rapidly destructive (phagedsenic) action. With the exceptions mentioned, the subjects of inherited syphilis will almost certainly remain free from skin trouble after the first year, and remembrance of this fact may save the practitioner from error in treating cutaneous eruptions in a child, such as common psoriasis, where the patient’s father admits to having had syphilis. 1. Diseases of the skin.—It is best to consider the syphilitic lupus and the gummatous ulceration together, for they merge into each other, although some cases present one or the other distinct lesion. By far their most common sites are the face (and here particularly the region of the nose) and the legs, though no part of the body is exempt. An infiltration into the corium, often in the form of a crescentic patch, of a brownish or deep red colour, tending to spread at its margins (serpiginous) and to invade and destroy the deeper structures —such are the characters of the tubercular or lupoid syphilide. Ulceration generally occurs and may present ashy or yellowish sloughs, or be attended with more or less crust-formation. The margin of the nasal aperture may become narrowed or oblitei’ated, the septum is often perforated or in great part destroyed, the lips greatly thickened, etc. It must be clearly understood that the terms “ tubercular ” and “ lupoid ” imply no real alliance with true lupus or tubercular disease of the skin, and no dependence upon the tubercle bacilli j but they deserve to be retained, since they emphasise the close resemblance chnically. Only too often is the mistake made in practice, and irretrievable damage to the patient allowed to occur for want of vigorous anti-syphilitic treatment. For the diagnostic signs we must refer to the section on acquired syphihs (page 414), and would emphasise the more rapid destruction of the syphilitic form. I have indeed seen a case in which a young man had the face so eaten away by syphilitic lupus (due to the in- hei’ited disease) that the back of the pharyngeal vault was exposed, as from the ravages of rodent ulcer, for which it had been mistaken. Under large doses of iodide of potassium cicatrisation rapidly occurred. It is all-mportant to recognise the disease early, and to increase the dose until healing is secured, whether iodides alone or combined with mercury are employed. Iodoform, the oleate, or the red oxide of mercury ointment should be used locally ; and sometimes, if rapid extension takes place in spite of this treatment, it is necessary to cauterise with the acid nitrate of mercury. • fl the eye.—The chief of these is a very chronic mliammation of the cornea, interstitial keratitis. As the name implies, the substance of the cornea rather than its surface is allected, and it becomes infiltrated with cells, new blood-vessels running between the lamellae. Sometimes the former predominates 0* 2 ’