1086 DISEASES OF JOINTS. lightly aiFected, and the patient’s strength is fairly good, there can be no doubt that a complete restitutio ad integrum is possible if proper means have been taken to keep the surfaces at rest, and to improve the general powers by generous diet, fresh air, tonics, and cod-liver oil, as already described (page 359). The best means of combining rest with fresh air is to fiumish the patient with some appliance which will hx the joint without confining him to bed or the house. After a long experience with these cases, I am inclined to give the preference in the case of young children to the double Thomas’s splint, which is shown in Fig. 450. This secures the limb in the straight position, and im- mobilises it completely, and in such an appliance the young patient can be carried about easily and enjoy out-of- door life. But where a vicious position has been allowed to occur, it will be best in most cases to confine the patient to bed for a while, and to extend the limb by weight and pulley until it is straight, and then put on the double Thoma.s’s splint. This must be kept in use as long as there is pain and tenderness in the joint, or until other changes have occurred which render operative interference necessary. In the case of older children and young adults who can manage to walk with a pair of crutches, the single Thomas’s splint, which immobilises the affected limb and yet leaves the sound one free for progression, is an admirable contrivance (Fig. 451). Combined with a patten under the boot of the unaffected foot, it enables the patient to take exercise with- out injury. It requires, how- ever, to be very carefully ap- plied and to fit perfectly, othewrise it ..... has a tendency to slip to the outer side of the thigh, and in this posi- tion fails to counteract the tendency to either flexion, abduction, or adduction. And it very often occurs that if these individuals are left to themselves, as out-patients, they neglect to secure the splint as the bandages loosen, and come back to us with the apparatus on the Fig. 449.—Destvuctiye Disease of the Hip Joint. o, Head of femur dislocated backwards : b, abscess extending down the tbigh ; c, (ibt. interims. Cl’rom University Coilege Museum.) Fig. 450.—Thomas’s Double Spliut.