5H3 lioatuhe (jf an autFjUY. to withstand the full force of the arterial blood pressure, with tlie danger of its yielding and forming an aneurysm, or causing secondary haemorrhage. There are a few cases recorded whore the ligature oi an artery in its continuity has been followed by the development of an aneurysm: as a result, no doubt, of the weakening of the vessel by division of its inner tunics, and failure of the ligature to occlude the vessel permanently. It appears that the condition of asepsis tends to lessen the length of clot formed in a tied artery. In this indirect mode it may increase the liability to repatency of the vessel. (6) Effects oil I lie circulation. — When from any cause, liga- ture, embolism, throm- bosis, or the pressure of a tumour or cicatrix, an arterial trunk is obliter- ated, the parts supplied with blood by it are blanched, and the branches arising below the obstruction are pulse- less. The part quickly becomes cold and be- numbed, and if, from the extent or position of the arterial obstruction, or from any other cause, the anastomotic circula- tion is not established, the part dies, under- going the changes de- cr...iV,orl no “fli-v” fran- 157.—Tlie lirst (a) and second (b) Stages of the St O sciioea as cuy J,au (BalUmce and Edmunds.) grene. More usually blood is carried into the empty vessels by the numerous anastomoses that exist almost universally in the body. At first all the communicat- ing vessels dilate and participate in this, for the resistance they offer to the passage of blood is less than that offered by the capillaries, and the blood flows from the full arteries in the direction of least resist- ance. Certain special vessels gradually enlarge, undergoing a true hypertrophy, and serve as the main channels of the blood, while the others contract to their normal size. {Sea Fig. 158.) The pulseless arteries are felt to beat again, and sometimes the enlarged anasto- mosing vessels can be felt beating under the finger. The temporary deprivation of blood causes the vessels beyond the ligature to yield to the pressure of the blood first brought to them through the anasto- mosing channels, and thus the pallor and coldness are followed by