SYPHILIS. 392 require local treatment. If the induration be extensive, the quickest method of obtaining its resolution is to get the patient under the influence of mercury. The treatment of phagedsenic sores has already been described. Th© immsdiat© s©q'u©l8e of chancr©s.—Tlie importance of a thorough examination of the inguinal lymphatic glands in any case of venereal infection cannot be over-estimated. It may at once be noted that true gonorrhoea is but very rarely attended by the least enlarge- ment of these glands. It is common for patients with gonorrhoea to complain of pain in this region when the epididymis and vas are not aflTected, and such pain is no doubt of a “ referred ” nature. Occasion- ally one or two glands may be slightly swollen and tender, but a marked inflammatory bubo, and still more, a suppurating one, in a case of gonorrhoea is almost invariably due to some small chancre which has complicated it. And here we would lay stress on the frequent occurrence of venereal sores in the little pouches of delicate skin on either side of the frsenum, sores which are readily overlooked. Of soft chancres it often is true that the smaller the sore the worse the bubo. Formidable inguinal abscesses may owe their origin to some trifling abrasion or chancre, whilst a huge phagedsenic sore on the penis may from first to last never excite marked enlarge- ment of the glands. To explain, the latter curious fact we can only suggest that the rapidity of the destructive action prevents absorption by the lymphatics, and we have a parallel in the case of noma of either the face or genitals. It must not be supposed that every case of soft or non-infecting * chancre is attended with an inflamed bubo. A large percentage escape, but the risk is so great that every means should be taken to destroy the poison and to heal the sore as soon as possible. A proper cauterisation of each soft sore is the most impor- tant means to this end, and pure carbolic acid is, as a rule, the most convenient form of caustic. It causes little pain compared with nitric acid, Ricord’s paste, and other caustics formerly in vogue. The exact limits of its action are readily ganged by the white colour it produces, and a single application, followed by the use of cleanliness and a powder (one part of iodoform to three of boracic acid), will usually bring about healing in a few days, unless the sore be large. In the latter circumstances it may be necessary to apply the caibolic acid repeatedly at short intervals, or to employ a stronger caustic, such as one of those just mentioned, or the acid nitrate of mercury. The characters of a bubo following a soft chancre are well known ; the gland enlargement is painful, ill-defined, the skin over it becomes early adherent, inflamed, and if left to itself as a rule the abscess bursts. It is generally undesirable to wait for true fluctua- tion, and an early incision will secure exit for the pus, and prevent serious undermining of the skin. Not infrequently peri-adenitis is present, and one or more glands lie in a bag of pus j this form is * In using this convenient term we allude only to infection of the whole system with syphilis.