997 DISLOCATIONS Oh' THhl HIP. pressed upon by the liead of the l)Oiie, or looped round its neck. The head of tlic bone ploughs its way beneath the glutei, but it may lacerate them extensively. Tlic greater the violence, the farther the head of the bone ascends on the dorsum, tlie more extensive will all these lesions be. The ligamentum teres generally tears a scale of bone away from the femur, or may itself be tom. 1. l>islocatiou upwards aiul backwards on to the florsuin ill! (Figs. 402, 403). Causation.—This, the most common dislocation of the hip, is produced by such accidents as heavy falls during abduction of the thighs, and especially when masses of metal or earth of great weight fall on the back when the thighs are abducted and flexed. This accident may also occur from the violent wrenches and twists of great machinery or railway accidents. Symptoms.—The limb is shortened to an extent corresponding to~the height the head of the bone has ascended. This is at least an inch and a half or two inches. The limb is flexed, adducted, and rotated inwards, so that the knee points across the lower third of the opposite thigh, and the ball of the great toe on the dorsum of the sound foot. There is a marked ap- pearance of widening of the buttock, the trochanter being turned forwards, and ap- proximated to the anterior superior spine above the line of Ndlaton. The ilio-tibial fascia is relaxed, because of the approxi- mation of the trochanter to the anterior superior spine. On feeling deeply in the groin, the femoral vessels, instead of beat- mg in evident relief, will sink backwards into a hollow, and in thin subjects the rim of the acetabulum may even be felt. Tiiis is a symptom of great value. The fold of the buttock, on posterior inspection, is seen to be raised. There is con- siderable fixation of the limb, which can only be slightly flexed, adducted, and rotated inwards. Moderate traction fails to draw the limb down to its proper length, a valuable differential diagnostic sign from fracture. Under ansestliesia, the head of the bone may bo felt m the buttock. Fig. 403.—Dorsal Dislocation of the Hip. (After Pick.) Ireatment.—This should be undertaken as soon as po.ssible. 1 he patient, being laid perfectly flat on a hard mattress, is deeply amestlietised with ether. The surgeon flexes the leg on the t iigh to relax the hamstrings and great sciatic nerve. ContimiTn" flexion he bends the thigli on the pelvis until resistance is encGuntej-ed. AOlie‘thigh, is bent up it is carried towards the pubesir^light adduction. This manipulation relaxes the untorn gart_ot t]ie_cap^ule, or iliofemoral ligament, the tension of wliich produces inversion. The thigli is now abducted to bring the head'of