117 SKIN-GBAFTmO. contraction, it is necessary to employ much larger and thicker por- tions of the skin, and to leave no interval at all between the grafts. In Thiersch’s plan about half the thickness of the skin is used, and the result of his method is extremely satisfactory. In describing it we have to consider: first, the preparation of the sore, and, secondly, the preparation and application of the grafts. As regards the pre- paration of the sore, it is in the first instance necessary to get rid of all existing sepsis, and this can be done by the method of disinfection which I have described. The wound must then be treated till the surface of the sore has become quite healthy, as indicated by the presence of healthy granulations and of commencing healing around the edges. Some surgeons allow this healing process to go on for several weeks, and repeatedly rub the granulations with nitrate of silver with the view of obtaining a firmer and better surface. For my own part, I do not think that it is necessary to wait or to prepare the surface in this way. All that is requisite for the success of the application is that the sore shall be healthy (as indi- cated by the appearance just described) and aseptic. Having obtained a healthy sore, the soft layer of granulations on the surface should be scraped away, the deeper newly-formed fibrous tissue, which is highly vascular, being, however, left behind. By scraping away the surface of the granulations, a mass of tissue is removed which would organise into fibrous tissue and subsequently contract, while, at the same time, a smooth, firm base is obtained on which to lay the grafts. In my opinion, not only should the granulations be scraped away, but it is well also to remove the line of cicatrisation which has already formed. I have found that where this is not done, although the area covered with skin grafts remains quite sound after the patient walks about, a line of ulceration is very apt to occur around, corresponding with the line of cicatrisation which had formed as the result of the natural healing process, and I therefore deliberately cut away the new epithelial layer so as to remove all the parts that have healed naturally. The surface of the sore having been prepared in this way, steps must be taken to ai-rest the hsemorrhage completely before the grafts are applied, and this is best done by taking a piece of protec- tive which has been disinfected in carbolic lotion and subsequently in some weak antiseptic such as weak sublimate solution, and placing it next the sore, and then, by means of sponges, either held firmly over the part by the assistant or bound down by means of a bandage, the pressure is kept up till the bleeding has stopped. The object of interposing the protective between the sponges and the soi’e is in order that the bleeding shall not be started again when the pressure is removed, and this is very apt to occur where no pi’otective is used, because the sponges stick to the surface. While the bleeding is being arrested in this way, the cutting of the grafts may be proceeded with. In the first instance, the skin which is to be removed for the purpose of skin-grafting should be thoroughly disinfected in the manner just described in reference to the treatment of the ulcer, and it should also be carefully shaved.