805 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. The above directions should not be carried out in a routine manner, but so as to correct whatever deformity is present. With good stra])ping there is little tendency to slip or stretch; the bandage is fairly enduring, and even a child has difficulty in wrig- gling out of it. The deformity of a greenstick fracture often dis- appears under its use. It fails, however, in complete fractures to draw the outer fragment sufficiently from the mid-line, and shorten- ing of the bone remains. Nothing but an axillary pad will obviate this. It is wedge-shaped, 6 in. long, 5 in. wide, and 3 in. thick at the base, which is rounded and tm-ned lowai’ds the axilla, where it is fixed by a padded strap over the opposite shoulder; the cushion is best stuffed with horse- hair ; or, less firmly, with bran. The elbow is brought to the side by a turn of strapping or ban- dage, and raised by a sling taking the whole length of the fore-arm. Even a hair cushion may cause unbearable pressure on nerves; or oedema or even ga.ogrene from 23res- sure on vessels. If a pad be used, therefore, it must be well watched. In slight cases without defor- mity, a sling supporting the elbow is sufficient. Where it is impor- tant to reduce deformity to a minimum, in fracture of both clavicles, in badly comminuted fractures, and in some COmpU- pig. 239.-Sa>Te'3 strapping. Application of cated cases, the patients should second strap so as to raise and carry for- • I, J 1 • a 1. J.1 wards the elbow, and fix the hand, be kept %n bed, lymg flat on the back with only a neck pUlow. The arm can be well fixed by a loop of strapping below the axilla, passing round the back to the front, and by another above the elbow going in the opposite direction; in double fractures these straps should pass from arm to arm. Cham- pionniiire employs massage : he thinks, with advantage. Non-union is very rare, and, as a rule, impairs function but little. The coraco-clavicular ligaments have ossified after injury, and masses of callus have connected the clavicle with the first rib impairing movement more or less. Fractures of the scapula.—These contribute about 0’8 per cent, to the total list of fractures. They are commonly due to direct violence, and are far more frequent in men than in women m adults than in children. Fractures may affect—(1) the blade and spine; (2) the acromion ; (3) the coracoid ; (4) the surgical neck ; and (5) the glenoid fossa.