ERYSIPELAS. 164 with eiil£U'g6nient of lymphatic glands, and occasionally some thiom hosis of veins. The fluid in the oedematous tissues is rich in leuco* cytes, and in sections many cells are found along the course of the vessels. The kidneys and liver and other internal organs are con- gested, and there is often marked enlargement of the spleen. The funo-s are often pneumonic, and the serous sacs contain an excess of blood-stained fluid. The arachnoid, pericardium, pleura, or peri- toneum may be inflamed. These inflammations cause fibrinous and purulent effusions. The lymph and pus contain streptococci, ihe streptococcus of erysipelas should also be sought foi’ in the inflamed skin, in vesicles or bullse, in the blood, in the fluid of the serous sacs, and in the capillaries of the liver, lungs, and kidneys. During life the blood in erysipelas forms a firm clot, but after death it is thin and watery. Great light has been thrown upon the pathology of erysipelas by the labours of Nepveu, Dehleisen, Koch, and of many others (page 27). Erysipelas is caused by infection with a streptococcus, which grows along the lymph spaces of the skin (Fig. 27), and causes first a coagulation of their contents, and after- wards excites acute inflammation. The strep- tococci may be demonstrated by Gram’s method of staining (page 51), in skin taken from the extreme edge of the spreading margin. It is difficult or impossible to demonstrate them in the older and more indurated skin. Here they are obscured by the leucocytes and fibrinous exudation which fill the lymph spaces aiid lymphatics. The streptococcus also grows in the periphei’y of the hair follicles, which explains the loss of hair which follows an attack (Cornil and Babes). The strepto- coccus can be grown in culture media by inoculating them with portions of the spreading edge. With such cultures Fehleisen caused typical erysipelas. The streptococcus of erysipelas has been found in the fluid of the bullm (Orth.), in the blood in fatal cases (see Fio-. 26), in the pericardial fluid, in the muscular Avails of the heait, in the lungs, liver, spleen, and mesenteric glands (Pfuhl). Inordmary cases it is probable that the streptococcus of erysipelas does notenter the blood (Fehleisen). Eiselsberg failed to find them in three cases Cornil and Babes give an excellent description of the histolo^i^l changes in erysipelatous skin. Migratory cells infiltrate the bundles of connective tissues, especially around the blood-vessels and ly phatics, and around the fat lobules The migrato^^^^ cells « Lundantin the dermis than in the papillse. The faxed cells aie swollen and undergoing division. There is in the dermis and subcutaneous tissues. The endothelium of the lymph spaces is swollen, and many subcutaneous lymphatics are filled with migratory cells. Fig. 27. — Erysipelas : Streptococci in lymph spaces of skin. (After Cornil and Bahes).