DlSVLAGEMimT OV SEMJ-LVNAU QAllTinAGE. 1015 when a leather splint may be substituted, and passive motion cautiously commenced. The patient must be warned that after so severe an accident, weakness and insecurity of the joint must long exist, with persistent oedema of the foot and leg, and a tendency to congestion and eczema of the skin. Dislocations of the knee are often compound ; the accident is a most grave one, and if combined with laceration of the vessels, demands amputation. Sub-luxation of the knee, internal derangement of the knee, dislocation of the semi-lunar cartilage.—Under this heading is described a peculiar condition of the knee-joint, which almost invariably is associated with a wrench, sprain, or other injury, and which is characterised by a sudden sensation of the joint being “ put out,” some fixation and impediment to the movements of the limb, more or less pain, and lastly by the functions of the articula- tion being suddenly and perfectly restored by an appropriate manipulation. Causation and patholog'y.—The accident is usually pro duced by a twist to the leg, when the knee-joint is flexed and the tibia is fixed, the body and femur being suddenly rotated on the tibia. Thus the injury is experienced in swinging the body to make a stroke at “golf,” or in the rotation which occurs in stepping out of a dogcart (Treves). On the other hand, violent rotation of the tibia when the femur is fixed, may produce displacements, though less commonly. In flexion and extension the cartilages move with the tibia. In rotation one or other cartilage is fixed, and the tibia rotates beneath them. In practice the internal cartilage will be found to be most generally displaced. This occurs in violent external rotation, principally performed by the biceps. During * this movement the external cartilage is gripped firmly between the tibia and external condyle. The gap between the -internal condyle and the tibia is, however, increased, and the movable internal cartilage is apt to sHp between the internal condyle and the inner tuberosity of the tibia. During internal rotation the internal cartilage is firmly held between the bones. This movement is princi- pally performed by the popliteus. The gap between the external condyle and external tuberosity of the tibia is now increased, but the external cartilage is smaller than the internal, is rounder and more movable, and is thus less Likely to get nipped between the bones (Scott Lang). Some authors take exactly the opposite view, and Godlee has argued from anatomical considerations that the external cartilao-e is more frequently displaced. Clinical experience points, however, undoubtedly to the greater frequency of the displacement of the internal cartilage, and practically this may be considered to be the cartilage nearly always at fault. Marginal displacements of the cartilage are far the more common but vertical displacements are not unknown (Fig. 420). In reference to this subject, it may be pointed out (1) that portions of the internal cartilage may be partially dotaclied by violence, (2) that pre-existiii"