TETANUS. 196 step, and obtained the first cultures of tetanus bacilli uncontaminated with any of the bacteria of putrefaction or sepsis, with which they are almost invariably associated. Tctamis bacillus.—This micro-organism (Fig. 35) has been de- scribed elsewhere (page 44), and it is only necessary to mention here those peculiarities which are of particular importance to surgeons. A. feature of especial interest is its extreme abhorrence of free oxygen. It is an obligatory anaerobe, and the presence of air, and probably of oxygenated fluid like the blood, is inimical to its propagation. Thus it is prone to live and grow in wounds which are deep and punctured. A suitable absence of oxygen may also be brought about by the simultaneous growth of oxygen- loving bacteria, such as those which cause putrefaction. Thus the tetanus bacillus is favoured by sepsis. Indeed, Yaillard and Vincent go so far as to say that the pres- ence of septic organ- isms is indispensable, and that apart from them the tetanus ba- cillus cannot form its toxins. This is much disputed. The next characteristic of the tetanus bacillus is its great resistance Fig. 35.—Bacillus of Tetanus. (After Fraenkel and Pfeiffer.) tO the twO mOSt Com- mon forms of disin- fection—namely, heat and chemicals. The spores and spore-bearing bacilli resist the temperature of 80° 0. for an hour, but are killed by five minutes’ stay in the steam steriliser at 100 0. (Kitasato). Chemicals act somewhat feebly upon the bacillus of teUnus. Kitasato ascertained that they were still immersion in 5 per cent, carbolic lotion, but that flfteen hours killed them A solution of perchloride of mercury, one ^ thousand parts of water, with 5 per cent, of hydrochloric ^cid, k^ them in thirty minutes, although the same strength of peichioride without the acid took three hours. ooilod “earth Almost any surface soil or dust will produce the tetanus,” and it has been caused by dust, mud, fields, roads, and buildings, especially churches. whicli has been contaminated with such dust capable of transmitting the disease. Vemeuil the admixture of horse-dung. The equine origin of tetanus has