DESTRUCTION OF CARTILAGE. 1059 tissue between them, or the margins are destroyed at spots corresponding to the fringes of infected synovial membrane, which overlap them (Fig. 433). In the same way the cartilage may be destroyed by irritation reaching it from below. The process may be rapid or slow, which is the more common. In a case, for instance, in which a rarefying non-suppurative osteitis exists in the end of a bone, tlie inflamed medulla may press upon the under surface of the cartilage. In this case the cells of the latter are soon destroyed, as already described, and the capsules ultimately burst, but this time towards tlie bone.' The inflamed me- dulla noAv enters the pit thus formed, and exerts its irritatintr efl'ect upon a deeper layer of cells, causing in them the same de- generative changes as before, with the same result. Thus the whole encrust- ing cartilage may be tunnelled through from below, until the inflamed me- dulla projects into the joint in the form of bosses of granulations, pro- jecting through otherwise healthy cartilage (Fig. 434). Masses of the latter Fig. 433.-Tubercle attacking the Cartilage of a Joint Surface. (From a Photograph by Prof. Cheyne.) may in this way be cut oflT all round by granulations, and be at the same time separated from the bone below by layers of the same material In this case flakes of cartilage will be separated and shed form of white chips of varying size. This exfoliation is, on the whole, not infrequent. All the varieties of destruction of cartilage alluded to may be met ^vith in the same joint The symptoms of destraction of cartilnsfe, anart Vnni tho.se of the disease of the joint which lead to it, are few. Objectively we have m the degenerative form an unevenness in the movements of the surfaces one upon the other, or even creaking or gratinr. In n ^orms alluded to, the painful condition°of the thSisZl movement, unless the patient be an£e.s- nnv Ip ’ roughened condition of the cartilacres maybe made out by gentle flexion and extension, or, perhaps bv lateral movement. An old criterion of cartilage dest^uj r’has always been a eertain aBtaeting" „f the hmg with acute pa “