426 SYPHILIS. two years, and it is very unusual under five. Iritis, however, may occur much earlier, even a few months after birth, corresponding to its onset during the secondary period of acquired syphilis. It is decidedly rare, hut its occasional occurrence should be borne in mind, as most serious results to vision may follow its being overlooked. Meningitis and disease of the cerebral vessels have been met with in syphilitic infants, and probably some cases of infantile hemiplegia are due to the latter cause. Treatment of congenital syphilis in infants.—As already stated, it is important, if practicable, that the patient should be suckled by its mother, and if this cannot be done, the greatest care should be taken with the artificial feeding. So long as any symptoms present themselves, mercury should be administered, either by the mouth or by inunction. One-grain doses of mercury and chalk thrice daily may be given to an infant a few months old with less fear of stomatitis and diarrhma than in the case of an adult. It is, however, most important to avoid mercurial stomatitis, since, if this occurs, the enamel of the permanent teeth is liable to sufier severely, and partly for this reason many authorities recom- mend that the mercurial course for the infant should be much shorter than for the adult, and practically limited by the disappearance of aU secondary symptoms. If, however, the infant is thriving well during the mercurial course, is steadily gaining weight, and presents no sign of stomatitis, it is probably best to continue the drug for three to six months after all symptoms have ceased. For anaemic and wasted syphilitic children it is often necessary to administer cod- liver oil (which, it may be remembered, is capable of being absorbed by the skin to a certain extent, and may be thus given in cases where it causes sickness if taken by the moutli), or to give mon and the phosphates. Congenital syphilis is so often a disease in which general mal-nutrition is the most prominent feature, that too^ much importance cannot be attached to the feeding and general hygiene of the child. Some of the subjects of syphilitic marasmus improve remarkably if pounded raw meat be added to or substituted for their milk diet. Mercurial inunction is very useful, either the rmg. hydrargyri (B.P.) or the oleate of mercury being employed. A common method is to apply the first-mentioned preparation in drachm doses on a flannel binder worn round the abdomen, the skin of which is washed daily. The oleate (5 per cent, solution) is more readily absorbed, but is rather liable to irritate the skin. On the whole, the internal administration of grey powder is a preferable method to inunction. The later symptoms of inherited syphilis.—After the first few months from birth the liability to skin eruptions ceases, with two or three exceptions. The chief of these is a spreading infiltra- tion (the so-called syphilitic lupus), which tends to ulcerate and cicatrise, in many cases causing grave disfigurement. It may occur in inherited syphilitic subjects at almost any age, and resembles closely the form already described in dealing with acquired syphilis,