458 TtJMOUnS. 6. RadiculSir odontoincs.—This species arises after the ctoWn of the tooth has been completed, and while the roots are in process of formation. As the crown of the tooth when once formed is unalterable, it naturally follows that should the roots develop an odontome, enamel cannot enter into its composition; the tumour would consist of dentine and cementum in varying proportions. Radicular odontomes are occa- sionally met with in man (Fig. 106); they occur equally in maxilla and mandible. In rodents they are very common and occur in mul- tiples j four may be present in the jaws of the same animal. 7. Ooinposito odontoniBS.—These tumours bear veiy little resemblance in shape to teeth (Fig. 107), but consist of a disordered conglomeration of dentine, enamel, and cementum, and may be con- sidered as arising from abnormal growth of all the elements of a tooth-germ. They are composite in another sense, for the majority of specimens consist of two or more teeth-germs indiscriminately blended. They occur in both jaws with equal frequency, but attain far larger proportions in the maxilla than in the mandible. The clinical characters of odontomes are described in the article devoted to Diseases of the Jaws (Art. XXXI.). Fig. 106.—Eadiciilar Odontome from tlxe Maxilla. Natural size. (After John Tomes.) 5. Fibromata (Fibrous Tumours). Fibromata are tumours composed of fibrous tissue. This genus contains three species:—(1) Simple fibromata; (2) molluscum fibrosum ; (3) neuro-fibromata. 1. Simple fibromata.—Typical fibromata consist of wavy bundles of dense fibrous tissue; the bundles are com- posed of long, slender, fusiform cells closely pack- ed together, and frequently ar- ranged in whorls. the large blood- Fig. 107.—Composite Odontome from the Upper Jaw. vessels of the (After Jordan Lloyd.) tumour traverse the centre of the vortices. Fibromata occur in the ovary, intes- tine, and larynx, on the gum (epulis), in the uterus, and in the deeper layers of the skin. In the last-named situation they are known as “ painful subcutaneous tubercles.” 2. Molluscum fibrosum.—This extraordinary condition of the