treatment of aneurysm. 613 can be well regulated. Signoroni’s tourniquet (Fig. 176) and Lister’s aorta compressor (Fig. 177) are also sometimes of use In using any form of instrumental compression, great care must be taken to pre- serve the skin from galling and sloughing, and, if possible, to com- press the artery only (not the vein) with just enough and not too much force, and so to fit on the compressor that it will not shift or allow any alteration of the direction of pressure; the pressure is best made on two parts of the vessel alternately, using two instruments, one of which is adjusted before the other is raised. To effect all this requires the constant attention of a skilled assistant, and it should not be left to the patient to carry out the treatment. Instrumental compression is more painful than digital, and more difficult to carry out without accident or temporary remission; it can be employed in some situations where no other form of pres- sure is available—e.g. the aorta. The facility with which either form of compression can be carried out is greatly affected by the disposition of the patient j the pressure is painful, and the entire repose of the patient, which must be rigidly en- forced, is irksome; sedatives and narcotics are often necessary, but with a restless, irritable patient, successful compression of an artery is exceedingly difficult to carry out, and may be impossible. The effects of compression of the artery on the proximal side of an aneurysm, whether digital or instrumental, vary considerably. They may be nil, and even when the com- pression has been long continued, its re- _ moval may be followed by the return of pulsation in the sac just in its former intensity, and no benefit is obtained. In other cases it is found that the aneurysm gradually becomes firmer and smaller, and the pulsation less marked aird less expansile, until it ceases altogether, and the solid pulseless aneurysm wastes to a fibrous knot on a permanently obliterated vessel. When this is the case, successive acts of coagulation have occurred as a result of the diminution of the tension in the aneurysm, and each clot as formed has been flattened out against the sac, forming “laminated clot,” until at last the sac has been filled, and the clot has then extended iirto and plugged the artery. The clot is formed by successive acts of coagulation, each one being represented by a lamina, and being due to some specially favouring condition of the circulation. Evid- ence of this can be foiurd in the remains of white coiqruscles found between the various laminae. The clot is not, therefore, a gradual growth of coagulum. Further evidence of this lies in the fact that the pulsation always finally disappears suddenly. As soon as the pulsation is wholly heaving in character, showing that the sac is filled, the pulsation no longer gradually Fig. 177.—Lister’s Aorta Compressor.