INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 546 necessities of the ouse. If success is to be attained, the proper treat- ment cannot be carried out too early or too thoroughly. When the very first trace of htemorrhage is noticed, the main artery above should be controlled by digital compression or an artery compressor, in the hope that, by diminishing the blood pressure in the injured artery, repair may progress and seal over the wound with an unyielding cicatrix. The pressure, if successful, must be con- tinued for several days, and left off gradually. This treatment is likely to succeed in those cases where the hteinorrhage is due to the ju’oximity to the ligature of a lai'ge branch of the artery, or to the weakening of the arterial walls by disease, or their severance by the ligatui’e. It is not so likely to succeed where septic arteritis is disintegrating the vessel. Where it fails, or where a free haemo- rrhage has already occurred, and in situations where it cannot be employed, the artery should, if possible, be ligatured. For secondary haemorrhage from wounded arteries, such as those in amputation stumps, or from arteries in the walls of abscesses and ulcers, the treatment that is almost always necessary is to open the wound—however far advanced healing may be—turn out the clots, and expose the bleeding vessel, which must then be secured by a carefully-applied ligature. Until this is done, the haemorrhage is stayed by the use of a tourniquet, where that is possible. The wound itself should be opened up rather than the main artery be cut down upon at a distance, because it is often uncertain exactly what vessel may be bleeding; and to ligature the main artery of a stump or part may be unnecessary, while the anastomotic circulation may quickly lead to further loss from the unobliterated vessel. When the wound is opened up, a careful search may be needed to find the artery at fault, for the opening in it may be closed by a clot; the surgeon must carefully look for such a clot, may then rub the wound well with a sponge, and particularly follow up any stream of bright arterial blood, however small. Having found the vessel, he must proceed to ligature it. This is not so easy as in the case of a primary wound. The artery is more or less perfectly embedded in inflammatory exuda- tion or granulation tissue, which fixes it to its companion vein, nerves, and other structures. Its own wall may also be so attenuated by the former ligature, or by septic arteritis, that it tears through at once if seized in a forceps. The blunt end of a director should be used to separate the artery rather than a knife or any sharp instrument. When the artery has been previously divided in a wound, it is separated well above the wound surface, and there carefully tied. When the artery has been previously tied in its continuity, or is ulcerated into in its continuity, a double ligature should be placed on it, above and below the leak, and well away from the surface of the wound. The ligatures should be of aseptic silk, and tied so as not to divide the inner and middle coats of the vessel. Torsion, acupressure, and forcipressure should not be employed in the treat- ment of secondary hsemorrhage. To secure tlie artery witli a ligature is, however, only half the