ANEURYSM. 604. force of t]ie escape of blood into the tissues, upon which the symptoms and edects depend, justify a separation of these cases into two classes. Where the sac has ruptured freely it should be called a ruptured aneurysm,” and where the sac has given way to a ex^tent only it may well be called a “leaking aneurysm ” (2) Suppuration.—YhQ inflammation excited by an aneurysm may become acute and end in suppuration of the tissues adjacent to the sac ^ this is most often seen where, as in the axilla, the aneurysm IS surrounded by loose cellular tissue, and where a slow rupture of the sac has occurred; it may also be excited by prolonged or rough handling of the aneurysm, or by sudden coagulation of the blood in a large sac. The pus thus formed tends to reach the surface, and to burst externally like that of any acute abscess. Two special efiects of the suppuration, however, must be noticed: (a) As the sac of an aneimysm. Idee an arter}’^, derives its blood-supply from vessels whicli reach it on its outer surface, the occurrence of suppuration immedi- ately around it, by destroying these vessels, deprives the sac of all nouiishment and it therefore sloughs ; this sloughing is the effect and not the cause of the surrounding suppuration, (b) The inflammation extends along the sac to the artery and excites arteritis j if this assumes the plastic form it seals the vessel, and when the sac separ- ates the aneurysm is cured; but if it is suppurative such a closure of the vessel does not occur, and either before or after the abscess around the aneurysm has burst, the artery opens into it, and fatal haemorrhage occurs. This latter is the more frequent event of the two. Signs and diagnosis.—The characteristic features of an uncom- plicated sacculated aneurysm will first be considered, and then those of its varieties and complications. The facts already noticed afford a ready explanation of all the points we shall have to mention, and if the essential features of an aneurysm are kept in mind it is com- paratively easy to avoid errors in diagnosis. {a) Signs and diagnosis of an uncomplicated saccu- lated aneurysm.—The primary phenomenon is a tumour placed over and fixed to an artery ; it varies in shape, but is usually more or less globular. In size it ranges from a small nut to a cocoa- nut ; if placed deeply or containing much clot it is firm in consist- ence, but if superficial or containing little clot, it is softer, and may even fluctuate. This tumour pulsates, being expanded and rendered more tense with each beat of the heart. The force of the pulsation depends partly upon that of the cardiac contraction, but more upon the proximity of the aneurysm to the heart, the size of the sac, and the amount of clot within it. Ballance and Edmunds have shown by experiment that the effect of the varying blood pressure of the arterial circulation is much greater in an aneurysm than in the artery, each beat of the heart raising the pressure in the aneurysm more than it does in the artery; this accounts for the marked and striking pulsation of aneurysms. It may be more marked in some