ANEURYSM. 590 factors underlie the production of the initial disease of the artery, and its culmination in an aneurysm, in the great majority of cases! Indeed, a purely idiopathic or spontaneous aneurysm must always be symmetrical. The influence of unequal function is well shown in the much greater frequency of spontaneous aneurysm in the arteries of the right than the left arm. The occurrence of aneurysm in each division of the hepatic artery is probably explained by the occur- rence of embolism, a single embolus having been broken into two by impinging upon the septum between the two hepatic arteries. Development.—When an artery yields to the pressure of the blood within it, the whole circumference of the vessel may be stretched, or a limited patch of the wall of the artery may bulge out. This will chiefly depend upon the extent of artery diseased! In the large arteries atheroma often affects almost uniformly a con- siderable extent of the ■vessel and in them, therefore, a yielding of the entire vessel is most commonly met with. In these cases the artery is dilated transversely and elongated, and a tubular ov fusiform aneurysm is formed. Uneven distribution of the disease of the artery may cause irregularity in the outline of the aneurysm, and in some cases marked local bulgings occur. When the whole circumference of the artery yields, the three coats of the vessel are found in the sac of the aneurysm. The inner coat is thickened from atheroma, and sometimes contains calcareous plates. The middle coat is s])read out, the muscular fibres being separated, and iiltimately undergoing fatty degeneration. The outer coat is thickened by the addition of new fibrous tissue. Localised yielding of an artery is due to the weaken- ing of the artery advancing to a much greater degree in one particular spot in the wall. This may be a patch of atheroma that has undergone fatty degeneration \ and at first the whole thickness of the artery bulges out, as in fusiform aneurysm. But as it grows the middle coat becomes more and more scanty in its walls, until it disappears, and the internal coat having lost its elasticity, ceases to expand, and the sac comes to be formed by the thickened tunica adventitia only. In other cases the aneurysm commences in an “ atheromatous abscess,” which bursts, or an “atheromatous ulcer.” The part of the artery thus weakened yields and expands, but in this instance the intima and most of the media are absent from the sac from the beginning, which resembles from the first the later stage of the pre- viously described variety. As aneurysms grow the original vessel wall is so stretclied and thinned that it may ultimately disappear over a large part of the sac; but its place is taken by new fibrous tissue formed by plastic inflammation of the adventitia, and of the sheath of tlie artery, and so the continuity of the sac is preserved. With yet further enlargement of the aneurysm, the tissues and organs surround- ing it, which are at first displaced by it, become incorporated in its wall, and so it comes about that muscles, nerves, other blood-vessels