OBESITY. 26:^ man finds himself motionless in bed, every circumstance of his life is changed he has no time to adapt himself to lus altered position, ancf It Is a matter of little wonder that the inflammatory process which may be induced runs not and is not readily controlled. C cumstances are not improved by his altered mental condition, by t le shock of the accident, the horror of mutilation, and the possible rni^Pl*16S of fllG fU-tUI*©* , \ The feeble subject who has become wasted and worn by some such trouble as chronic joint disease is, on the other hand, acclimatised to bed-life; his diet, his muscular changes, his breathing pwers, have all adjusted themselves to the molluscous condition His viscera are healthy, there is no accumulation of debris to be nd of, and possibly even confinement is ceasing to be irksome. To such an individual amputation comes as a relief. The change that amputa- tion brings in his life is even agreeable, and opens up the prospects of a new existence. n • • The great difference in the mortality of amputation for inju^ and for disease serves to emphasise this point. It must be distinctly understood, however, that these difierences are only partly due to the patient’s condition. They perhaps as largely depend upon the circumstances of the amputation, which must of necessity be uncertain in operations for injury where it is diflicult to ascertain the limit of the sound tissues. Obesity and plethora.—The very corpulent are certainly not aood subjects for either injury or operation. In some of them wounds do quite weU. These will probably be young persons in whom the disposition to corpulence is hereditary, who are in sound health, and take every reasonable means to prevent increase of All obese individuals about or beyond middle life are, as a rule, bad subjects in a surgical sense, and more especially the men.^ The excessive corpulence may have been induced by gluttony or drinking habits, or have been encouraged by indolence or disease. These patients often breathe with difficulty, and cannot assume the entirely recumbent position. They soon become helpless, their mere buljc renders it difficult for them to be moved in bed and for dressings to be applied ; their skin is frequently unwholesome, and they are not readily kept clean. The edges of the wound come ill together. The immense layer of subcutaneous fat is indifferently supplied with blood, and has probably been damaged. Portions of this tissue have been broken up and isolated from a blood supply. The thickness of the pai’ts involves much strain upon the sutures. If after the operation the patient incline towards the affected side, the whole wound region becomes pendulous, drainage is difficult, and the application of pressure in the dressing of the part is almost impossible. In these circumstances, the wound is apt to become septic, sloughing is not uncommon, and deep-seated suppuration is comparatively frequent. A low type of inflammation often involves the surrounding skin, and