KNEE JOINT DISEAIiE. 1105 l!i this case, too, tlie method of treatment by passive hyper- emia, formulated by Dr. Bier of Kiel (seepage 1050), can be carried out without coutiniug the patient to bed or the house; and to this may be added injection of the diseased area with iodoform emulsion, repeated as often as is called for. So long as there is no evidence that the dis- ease is running on into caseous abscess, this treatment should be persisted in, especially as it can be carried out with- out confining the patient to bed or even to the house. And this is especially true of very young children, who have a won- derful power of battling with the disease in many cases, while at the same time the best results of operation are not likely to be attained in very young individuals. But as soon as the surgeon is convinced that the disease is progressing to the stage of caseous abscess, whether in the bone or synovial membrane, operative inter- ference is called for. Operative measures. — I am not in favour of operations for the removal of tuberculous disease of the synovial mem- brane of the knee in its very earliest stages, and this for many reasons. In the first place a large number of patients with this form of disease may be restored to health by the ordinary modes of treat- ment, local and general. Secondly, thoug-h the risks of the operation are slight, they have to be taken into ac- count ; and if the disease can be brought to a standstill without them, it is plainly right to avoid them. Again, it is diffi- cult at first to define how far the disease has invaded the synovial membi’ane, and, consequently, how much ought to be taken away. Pinally, if we are likely to have to remove the ligaments of the knee, the result so far as the preservation of the functions of the joint is concerned will not be much the worse for waiting a little. tous structures When the ligamen- are destroyed or cut away the difficulty of securing a firm joint is very great in young patients. They may have to keep the part immobilised for years after in either case. And even where partial resection of the superficial layers of the bones has to be undertaken, on account of the extension of the disease from the synovial membrane to them, the difficulties of