MILITARY SURGERY. 250 But wliere the injmy necessitates removal of the limb, primary amputation is certamly to be preferred to an intermediate or second- ary operation. The following lesions entail primary amputation :— 1. Nearly complete avulsion of a limb. 2. All conditions of injury by which the further vitality of the limb is annulled. 3. Injury to the chief nerves and vessels, with comminution of the bone. 4. Great and irreparable destruction of the soft parts. Secondary amputation will be indicated :— 1. Where suppuration, with extensive inflammation of the bone and soft parts, is wearing out the patient. 2. Where gangrene has supervened. 3. Where late haemorrhage has come on, which cannot otherwise be stopped. 4. Where septicsemic affections or acute osteomyelitis are super- vening. 5. It is recommended also by some on the onset of tetanus. The discussion of wounds of the skull, spine, thorax, and abdo- men will be found in the respective Articles on the surgery of these parts. Injuries by massive projectiles.—These produce immense laceration of the parts struck, the wound being very irregular and much lacerated. Large portions, or even an entire member, of the body, may be torn away. The treatment to be carried out cannot be laid down in definite rules. Such treatment as is possible wiU depend on the individual case. II. BAYONET AND SWORD WOUNDS. Sword wounds are incised, and may be of any extent. As a rule, if, however extensive, they do not wound a fatal part, they do well. Where penetrating, as in the abdomen and chest, the usual rules of treatment are to be followed. Bayonet wounds differ in their nature according to the form of weapon. The bayonet of the Martini-Henry, 17 inches long, inflicts a much more severe lesion than that of the Lee-Metford rifle. The Martini-Henry bayonet is of a triangular shape, and thus a punctured wound with three lines radiating from a centre is caused. The Lee- Metford has a “sword-bayonet” 12 inches long, hence the sides of the incised wound are parallel, and the lesion is more disposed to heal favourably. Bayonet wounds are very liable to be followed by septic inflammation, and the formation of deep-seated matter. The deep-seated vessels and nerves are also prone to be injui-ed. The wound must be well washed out with an antiseptic lotion, be dramed and then dressed with absorbent cotton-wool, and immobilised. Should inflammation arise, counter-openings for the discharge of pus must be made, and the freest drainage ensured.