SACCULATED ANEURYSM. trration whicli sets free tlie ferment and leads to the formation in tlifi clots is explained in two ways : one vi 697 of tibdnT* The dm’erences in the clots is explained in two ways : one view ; that if this fibrin forms in a rapid blood-stream, the corpuscles are, IS IVirVei-rwhipperout of^i^^ a clot of nearly pure fibrin the result • such a clot is called a zohiie clot, from its colour, and an active ’clot, from its supposed special active share in the cure of aneurysm, and a laminated clot from its occurrence in several imbricated layers (Fig. 171). If, however, the fibrin separates in blood that is nearly or quite stagnant the corpuscles are caught in its meshes, and a red, passive, or blood clot results. Between these 0^^j.0jxi6s, of a rapid blood-stream and stasis, r*** ^ two and stasis, all gradations occur, and th7refo7e dote of various degrees of corpuscular richness and colour result. This has been the usually ac- cepted view. Evidently it rests solely upon surmise, as the process has never been seen, and it is exceedingly improbable that the blood plate- lets would adhere to the sac at all if they were ex- posed to the rush of a stream of blood, rapid enough to “whip” the fibrin free from corpuscles. Corroboration of in fusiform coagulation (Museum oE the Fig. 172.—Fusiform Aneurysm of Arch of Aorta. Eoyal College of Surgeons.) Showing at e, a sacculated pouch; p, laminated clot: /, recent clot ex- tending into o, left subclavian artery; c, left carotid; o,innominate artery. this is found in the absence of such clots aneurysms. Another more probable view is that only occurs in quiet “ eddies ” and “ backwaters ” of an aneurysm, and that in all cases the clot when formed is true blood-clot—fibrin and corpuscles—and that it becomes greatly altered in nature and appearance by the pressure to which it is exposed. The pressure flattens out the clot against the sac, and squeezes out the serum, the red corpuscles then disintegrate, and so a “white” fibrinous clot is obtained, and when, several clots have been formed and thus jiressed together, the “ laminated ” appearance is pro- duced. A clot not exposed to this pressure and formed shortly before, death, presents the usual features of blood-clot. The layers of clot in an aneurysm are variously arranged : the most typical condition is that in which the oldest clot is next the sac, and those formed later are arranged concentrically within it; this produces a very characteristic laminated appeai’ance. and as