SUPPUBATION. 88 abscess, the general rule is that it should be at the most dependent part of the cavity, so as to allow the discharge to escape freely. This rule is, no doubt, wise in cases where the pus has been burrowing underneath the skin; but it is not essential in deeper-seated abscesses, and if followed may at times lead to inconvenience. An essential rule as regards the position of the opening in acute abscesses is that it should be as far as possible from the orifice of any mucous canal, and therefore from sources of contamination. If only the abscess be freely and thoroughly opened, and efficient drainage established, the pus does not go on burrowing, even although the opening is not at the most dependent part of the cavity. It is a matter of great importance in treating acute abscesses to see that all the recesses of the abscess are freely opened. As I have already said (page 81), in the case of deep-seated abscesses, or abscesses among muscles or bands of fibrous tissue—as in the breast, etc.—^the pus is apt to spread in irregular directions, form- ing small recesses, which are not properly evacuated if only an external incision be made. Hence it is necessary, when such abscesses are opened, to break down the septa which separate the various projections of the abscess, and this is much better done by means of the finger than by any instrument. Where the abscess is quite superficial this is not, as a rule, necessaiy, and an opening sufficiently large to admit a proper-sized drainage-tube will answer the purpose ; but m the case of all abscesses which have passed through fascia it is very essential to open up the deeper recesses. In the neck, where it is desirable to avoid a scar, a pair of dressing forceps may be introduced through the wound which has been made, and by separating the blades the hole in the fascia through which the pus has reached the surface may be enlarged; and then, by push- in<T on the forceps into the various recesses of the abscess, and opening them from time to time, the cavity may in most cases be satisfactorily drained. . In some instances, where the siqipuration has occurred in the neio'hbourhood of important structures, where the pus is deep-seated, and where it might be dangerous to cut freely till one reaches the collection, the plan known as Hilton’s method is usually employed. This consists in making a sn)all incision through the skin, and then, by means of dressing or sinus forceps, gi-adually boring ones way into the abscess cavity. That the abscess cavity has been reached is evident from the sudden cessation of resistance to the passage of the forceps, and in most cases by the escape of pus along the side. Havin" in this way reached the abscess cavity, the blades of the forcep^ are thoroughly expanded so as to tear up the inteiwening tissues, and are then pushed on into the various recesses of the abscess and expanded from time to time with the view of openuig the cavity completely. ■, c ^ Whichever method is employed, a drainage-tuhe of sufficient sixe should then be introduced. In selecting a drainage-tube it must be remembered that pus is a thickish fluid and does not readily flow away.