1102 DWPJASES OF JOINTS. cause is, is not in all cases clear, but the visible effect upon the syno- vial structures is plain enough. Tliere is a chronic congestion, and the result is hyperplasia taking the form of hypertrophy of the synovial membrane, which is thrown into ridges and folds, gradually elongating into more or less pendulous masses. In a case I operated on within the last year on account of chronic synovitis with recurring efl’usion in an otherwise healthy young man, this was exceedingly well seen on opening the joint. The lining was deep pink and irregular and rugose, with fringes as described. After removal of the latter, they were found to consist solely of inflamma- tory tissue in various degrees of organisation, but without a trace of tubercular structure. The removal of a quantity of this altered synovial membrane from both sides of the joint was followed by complete recovery of its powers. Besides this variety of chronic synovitis, accompanied by hydrops articioli, there is also, as already mentioned, that form in which all the synovial membrane undergoes a general hypei’plasia w’ithout any particular hyper-secretion. In this form there is not necessarily any formation of fringes, but the thickening may give rise to much general enlargement of the joint and a pulpiness appreciable to the fingers. It is a matter of the very greatest difficulty to distinguish this form, in which tubercle plays no part, from that in which this infection is the cause. And in any case in which there is doubt, the disease should be treated as though it were tuberculous. But where there is no evidence of the latter disease, we can do a good deal short of operative measures for its relief. Frequent counter- irritation, combined with rest, will often bring about a return to the normal condition. In addition to this, careful and continuous bandaging and strapping may relieve the congestion and promote absoi’ption of inflammatory matter. The patient’s general health, of course, must be attended to at the same time, and in the later stages and where only stiffness and thickening remain, much benefit will result from massage carried out methodically and continuously. Where these means fail, the joint may be opened and washed out; and if this likewise is without beneficial result, recovery is much hastened by excision of consider- able portions of the thickened synovial, membrane on both sides of the joint. This is best carried out by lateral incision curved from either side of the ligamentum patellte upwards and outwards for about three inches. When the capsule has thus been laid open the synovial membrane is dissected away from the sides and front of the bones as far as possible. It is needless to say that this can only be safely done where perfect asepsis can be compassed. When as much as is considered necessary has been dissected away, and all bleeding has been checked, the capsule is completely closed all round, and then the skin wound. In my opinion drain- age is in these cases quite unnecessary. When sound union has taken place, passive movement and massage should be regularly carried out, and as soon as tenderness has passed o9', cautious