SUPPURATION. 82 growth in the case of Staphylococcus aureus becoming of an orange- yellow coloui’, while that in the case of Staphylococcus all>u3 remains milk-white. The Streptococcus pyogenes grows much more slowly on nutrient jelly, and forms small, round, white balls which do not liquefy the gelatine (page 27). A very important point with regard to all these organisms is that they peptonise albumen, the staphylococci more especially doing so with great readiness. The importance of this fact is great, as explaining the liquefaction of the tissues during the process of suppuration, and the peptones produced during this process prevent the coagulation of the fluids which are effused from the blood-vessels. As to the other products of growth of these organisms, but little is definitely known. Among numerous other things they are said to produce ammonia, trimethylamine, and toxic albumoses (page 19). It is, no doubt, by virtue of these products that they give rise to inflammatory distur- bances ; and we can readily understand that if there be a constant production of some irritating chemical substance, such as ammonia, in the tissues, acute inflammation will be kept up ; while the toxic albumoses, like those produced by many other organisms, when absorbed into the circulation will set up fever and the other consti- tutional signs of acute suppuration. When injected into animals under suitable circumstances these organisms cause inflammation and suppuration, and in large quantities may lead to death. The sequence of events after the entrance of these organisms into the tissues is well seen—though in an exaggerated form in cases where the smaller blood-vessels are plugged with emboli containing pyogenic cocci, as is the case in pyaemia. {See page 177.) On staining sections of tissues containing such emboli in an early stage, we find that while the central mass of organisms is deeply stained, and while the nuclei in the greater part of the section have become well coloured, there is a ring of tissue around the central mass of organisms which does not take on the stain, and which presents a homogeneous, translucent appearance. This translucent ring is evidently t ie result of the action of the concentrated products of the micrococci, the tissue being brought into the condition of what is termed coagulation 7iecrosis. At a somewhat later period a second ring, which is composed of a dense layer of leucocytes, appears outside this clear area, and for a time these three circles can be clearly made .,,,4. r. rvno /’omnnsed of a mass of Organisms ; a middle cleai the final result is a cei and micrococci, surrour other words, an abscess.