1093 HI]? JOINT DISEASE. The restdts of operation.—The question wliether those joints which have been treated without operation give as good results in respect of their functions as those which have been operated on in the manner described is not yet to be settled by figures. But since this method has been employed by myself and others, a very marked improvement has been noticed in the functions as well as in the permanent loeal condition. Children are much sooner up and about, and if the tendency to flexion is counteracted for a time by the use of a splint at night, the limb remains in good position. Of course the joint has been destroyed—not by the operation, however, which has only cut a few of the anterior fibres of the capsule and cleaned out carious bone, but by the antecedent disease; and having been destroyed, the resulting condition can never be as good as the original articulation. But with early progression the general nutri- tion of the limb improves, and the atrophy which invariably results from long immobilisation is prevented. The movements of the articu- lation are, of course, more or less limited after such an operation, just as they are after recovery from destructive disease, where there has been no interference with the joint. But this has its advantage, never- theless. For if movement after destructive disease with or without operation be free, it will mean that there is a loose bond of union between the two bones ; and if this is the case, the weight of the body thrown upon it must stretch it and lead to much shortening. But if by operation before the whole of the neck of the femur has been destroyed, and the ring of the aeetabulum obliterated, the sound re- mains of the neck can be thrust into a clean gouged acetabulum, and maintained in this position until the two bones are more or less united, the result will of course be mueh better than in cases where the disease has been allowed to destroy the head and acetabulum completely, and has led to more or less dislocation of the femui’ upon the dorsum ilii. But there is an idea that the result of excision for caries of the hip ought to be a freely movable joint. This is surely a mistake, for movement in all directions means general looseness of the bond of union, and this must mean slipping of the femur upwards upon the ilium under the weight of the body. My aim in all cases in recent years has been to secure as firm a joint as possible, admitting of little or no movement, but with the remains of the neck firmly soldered into the acetabulum ; this reduces the tendency to shorten- ing to a minimum, and also reduces the tendency to flexion at the hip. And even if bony anchylosis were the result (which is extremely rare in young children), if the synostosis took place in good position, it would be better than a very loose joint, which must be more or less weak when weight is thrown upon it. If there were much risk in the operation as above described, it might be a reason for relying on prolonged rest and the draining of abscesses as they arise rather than face it. But the risk must be very small now. As a matter of fact, I liavc now done some scores of these limited excisions of tlie hip for extensive disease.