395 SECONDARY SYDEILIS. axillary folds, the lower border of the breasts, especially in women who perspire freely. The external meatus of the ear is another rare but interesting position, for here a condyloma may block the passage and cause temporary deafness. Between the toes they may develop, and are then prone to fissure or ulcerate deeply, giving rise to the most intense fcetor. On the tongue, lips, and at the anus, cou- dylomata are also prone to ulcerate or fissure from various irritative causes; and hence a good deal of pain may be experienced in them. The term rhagades is applied to such fissured condy- lomata. (3) If the infiltration of the skin be very extensive, the so-called nodular or tiiberciilar sypliilide is produced, tending to ulcerate and then heal in the centre, spreading at the edge, and closely resembling lupus. with Fig. 80.—Syphilitic Kux>ia, showing the “ Limpet-shell” dry Crusts and the dark Patches - left by the healed Ulcers. round the anterior nares, the forehead, scalp, the region over the lumbar and sacral vertebrae, and the buttocks. (4) A pustular eruption is not uncommon, and may resemble acne, varicella or variola; the individual pustules may break and form very large crusts (when the terra ecthyma is applied). Oc- casionally a true vesicular eruption occurs, the contents of the vesicles being clear serum, but this is so rare a form of syphilide that it hardly deserves to be placed in a separate class. (5) By pcmpliig;us is understood an eruption composed of large vesicles. These are apt to suppurate and burst; a certain amount of scab is left, which is pushed up by subsequent extension of the process, until ultimately a conical mass of dried (generally dark- coloured) scab is produced, which is aptly compared to a limpet-shell. If the scab be detached, a circular superficial ulcer is exposed, the centre of which may have almost, or quite healed. To this form of syphilitic eruption the term rujna is applied (Fig. 80). Both pemphigus and rupia are rare syphilides, occur late in the X* '1