1019 BISLOG AT rONS OF THE ANKLE. are reversed. The outer malleolus is promiiient, the inner buried, or frequently broken olK The foot is markedly inverted. In both these injuries tliere is an appearance of distortion, and widening about the front of the joint. Should a surgeon be called to see such a rare accident as a complete horizontal lateral dislocation, he would expect to find the following symptoms: The displacement will probably be in the outward direction. There will be striking deformity caused by the great widening of the parts. The lower end of the tibia and inner malleolus will be seen and felt internally, on the point of bursting through the skin. The everted foot and fractured external malleolus will be drawn upwards along the outer side of the leg. In connection with the preceding paragraphs, the article on fractures about the ankle may well be studied. In actual practice, fracture is usually combined with dislocations of the ankle. Antcro-posterior dislocations of the ankle.—Owing to the fact that the interval between the malleoli is greater in front lan behind, and that the astragalus is a little narrowerfanteriorlvl •? one would expect that dislocation forwards wnuldnae^the mor6 common of the antero-posterior displacements. Dislocation back- wards is, as a matter of fact, the more frequent of these two very exceptional accidents, and this is due to such a cause as alighting on the front of the foot in jumping from a height, or from a vehicle in rapid transit. The dislocation back- wards is of various degrees of com- pleteness. Usually the tibia is forced forwards on the upper surface of the neck of the astragalus, impinging upon or overhanging the scaphoid bone (Fig. 422). The lateral liga- ments are torn, more often the malleoli are fractured, and carried back wards with the foot and astraga- lus. The foot is pointed downwards, and greatly shortened, the prominence of tlie heel be- +1 ‘ 1 the transverse projection and marked rido'p eneath k In the very rare dislocation forwards tlie foot i<, considerably e ongated. Tim tendo Achillis is slaclmned and .med forwards and in front of it arc the hard prominent lower Kig. 422. -Dislocation of the Foot backwards.