383 HYSTERIA IN THE MALE. expresses it, acts as an admirable “ mechanical tonic. The induced current may also be used for the same ends. , . j In some cases of hysterical joint an immediate cure has followed a rouc^h and sudden flexing of the stififened limb or the application of so^strong an electric current as to cause the patient to exert all her powers to prevent a threatened renewal of the treatment. In most of these mimicked joint afi'ections massage and passive move- ments have good effect. The hysterical spine is less easily managed and many patients have been bedridden for years with this affection. The success of treatment in any of these cases will depend more upon common sense and good judgment than upon any precise and formal line of treatment. _ , Hysteria in the male.—Conditions are occasionally met with in the male subject which so nearly resemble hysteria in the opposite sex that in spite of the absurdity of the term when its etymology is considered—they may be conveniently termed hysterical. So far as the mimicry of disease is concerned, the conditions which are most frequently met with in males may be classifled under two headings :—(1) Abdominal neurosis and (2) sexual neurosis. (1) Abdominal neurosis.—The patient who exhibits this con- dition is most usually the victim of chronic dyspepsia. He becomes hypochondriacal and melancholic. He is usually constipated, and the whole interest of his life is apt to be centred in the action of his bowels. He takes aperients without stint and inspects his motions with horrible care. Sometimes he has a dreadful gnawing pain in his belly, which he is convinced is due to cancer. In other cases the stomach is dilated, eructations are continuous, vomiting may be frequent. In one or two reported examples of intestinal neurosis the vomiting was fseculent. Flatulent distension of the abdomen is common. In any case the utter misery and despondency of the man are very noticeable and contrast with his usually well- nourished condition. He is sometimes the member of a family prone to insanity. He may have been greatly overworked or greatly worried. He may have very defective teeth. He may have injured his health by excessive drinking. He speaks of his symptoms with extreme exaggeration. Rest, dieting, sedatives, massage, and quiet will cure some cases. Electricity is useful in others. Complete change of life and scene will dispel the troubles of a third class of patient, but there are some who appear to be really hopeless. I have met with a case in which all the symptoms disappeared on the passing of a tapeworm, and another in which the securing of a long unrecognised movable kidney put an end to symptoms closely resembling stricture of the pylorus. In one or two instances of the worst kind I have carried out an exploratory incision into the abdomen. In no case was any- thing abnormal found and in no case did the symptoms return. (2) Sexual neurosis.—The basis for the familiar symptoms of these protean troubles is commonly a slight degree of stricture, a