360 TUBERCULOSIS joint affections, if properly^ treated, do by no means ill; and the surgeon must decide in relation to each individual case how much or how little is to be expected from natural processes. I would lay stress upon this, because there is no doubt but that glands are now and then removed which would have subsided without operation, 8^rid joints are occasionally excised which would have recovered if treated by long-continued rest under favourable conditions. I have seen more than one case of tuberculous orchitis which has been condemned to castration recover after a moderate scraping away of the evident disease and a residence in a favourable climate. There appears often to be a cycle in tuberculous diseases. There is an outburst of the disease, and after it the trouble tend.s to clear up and get^ well, and the patient remains free until the next uncertain period of eruption. (4) Finally, considerable attention should be paid to constitu- tional treatment. There are no drugs which are specifics against tubercle, and three-fourths of the medicines given are administered not to treat the disease, but to soothe that inherited craving in the human race for physic, which is almost as uncontrollable as the craving for drink. The principal elements in the treatment are plenty of air, plenty of sunshine, and plenty of good food. Let the patient escape from the crowded city and live in the country ; let him sleep with his bed- room windows open, winter and summer. So long as mere move- ment will not be in itself injurious, let him be moved out into the open air. Let him live in the open air. Let the atmosphere be diy. Patients do not do well in densely-wooded districts, in valleys, by the hanks of large rivers, and in moist places ; they do better by the sea, in districts with a low rainfall, with a porous soil, with spare vegetation, and with an unimpeded rush of air from the sea. Sunshine and dry air are deadly to the bacillus, and light and oxygen are of more value than all drugs. In England there is some difficulty in spending much time in the open air in the winter; although I have had patients with high temperatures and suppurating wounds out of doors every day in the winter, in spite of snow, and frost, and rain. If the patient can winter in a more suitable climate, let him go to a place where the air is dry and the sun bright, and where he can be out of doors all day. Thus it happens that surgical forms of tuberculosis do as well at St. Moritz and in Canada as at Cau’o and California. These are places with this at least in common : there are facilities and inducements to be out of doors in the winter months. In the matter of drugs, cod-liver oil may be given as a food during the cold weather; iron may be needed when there is ansemia, and is conveniently given in the form of Flitwick water; arsenic and quinine are now and then of value, and in some instances iodide of potassium is of service. Iodine is conveniently employed in the form of Kreuznach water, and the special treatment carried out at Kreuz- nach is often of decided benefit in the early stages of gland disease.