TUBERCLE. 347 under a quite low magnifying power. Ilie final stage is shown A Fi" 63, and in detail in Fig. 66. i c ’ Here is a well-marked rounded mass, well differentiated from the surrounding tissues. It is made up of cells, and is void of h ood- vessels. The cells are very evidently of three kinds, and exhibit some method in their arrangement. In the centre is the giant cell, with its very numerous oval nuclei. From its margin proceed radiating processes, which join in an iU-marked reticulum about which the tu- bercle appears to be built up. In the second place, proceeding towards the peri- phery, is a co- hort of epithe- lioid cells, which surround the giant cell, and are best seen in its immediate vicinity. They form an ill- marked zone in the round area of the tubercle. Fig. 65.—Tubercle from Area B, Fig. 63. Thirdly, . about the periphery of the district is a host of round cells or simple leucocytes, which crowd the outskirts of the tubercle and insinuate themselves in diminishing numbers towards the centre. It will often be observed that the cells are not precisely arranged in definite zones, although their inclination towards certain parts of the tubercle is very apparent. It will be noticed also that the reti- culum of the neoplasm has a tendency to concentric arrangement at the periphery of the mass. Lastly, it should be borne in mind that the giant cell may be absent or obscured, or be found near the outskirts of the collection; while now and then two or more smaller giant cells stand in the place of the central figure. The tubercle is often obscured by in- flammatory changes, which disturb the surrounding tissues and invade the precincts of the little growth itself. Unlimited discussion, which need not here be considered, has taken place as to the exact nature of the giant cell. One fact would appear to be established; and that is, that giant cells do not all originate in the same way. Certain of them are obviously but coagula of fibrin and lymph which have engaged the products of a rapidly proliferating endothe- lium in a blood-vessel or lymph passage. Others evidently result from changes in the fixed ceils of the tissue.