227 CONTUSED WOUNDS. m tlift treatment of a cut head, for example, where pieces of hair are llntt ie^ and these must be carefully removed; and even when removed with the greatest care one can never be certain that the wound will remain aseptic. Hence, in the case of a cut head I recommend disinfection of the wound in the way I have described ; but it should be left open, or, at most, supported by one or two stitches, and a large drainage-tube should be passed into it, the external dressings employed being the same as those already ' ^^TnSd nothere enter into the special treatment of compound fracture, wounds of joints and large serous cavities, as these will be discussed under the proper headings. So far as asepsis is concerned, the essential point is to enlarge the wound, if necessaiy, so as to be able to get at all the recesses, and then to remove^ thoroughly any foreimi bodies or dirt, and saturate the tissues with some strong antiseptic solution, more especially with a 1 to 20 carbolic acid solution. ^ , , , . „ 3. Contused wounds.—So far I have been speaking of the treatment of incised wounds. Where the wound is not inflicted by the surgeon, it most usually, however, is not a clean incised wound, but either a contused or a lacerated wound. In a contused wound the skin has given way over a contused part, and the condition of the wound is such that the edges are very much bruised and infiltrated with blood, and if excessive inflammation occur in these edges sloughing is very apt to take place. Besides, if the wound become septic, the organisms have a large amount of weak tissue in which they can grow luxu- riantly, and very serious suppuration and general septic effects will probably result. Hence, in cases of contused wounds, it is particularly desirable to asepticise the wound thoroughly, and if the part be seen soon after the accident, as a rule there is no great difliculty in doing so. If the wound in the skin be small, it should be enlarged, so that the whole contused subcutaneous area is exposed, and, the edges being held aside, the injured tissues are thoroughly cleansed and scrubbed with strong antiseptic solutions, more especially with a 1 to 20 carbolic acid solution, and also with sub- limate solutions, the skin around being very carefully disinfected in the manner previously described (page 213). No stitches should be employed, but the wound should be left freely open. In fact, in some cases it is well to stuff the wound with gauze for a few days. If after that time it be found that asepsis has been attained, and that the edges of the skin have retained their vitality, one may then insert a few stitches with a view of getting more rapid healing. When suppuration occurs in contused wounds, and where the wound is extensive, probably the best method of treatment is constant irrigation with some weak antiseptic solution. Irrigation acts essentially by washing away the albuminous fluids as soon as they are poured out from the wound, and thus removes the pabulum on which the micro-organisms would live; and if a small amount of I 2