INVASION BY BAGTERIA. 15 of septic eiulooiU'clitis, where the bacteria must have come directly in contact with the surfaces of injin-ed or roughened valves ; wliilst septic emboli are known to be of comparatively frequent occurrence. It is not always so easy to follow the spread of the more slowly-growing organisms by this path, though quite recently, considerable evidence lias been brought forward in support of the theory that tubercle bacilli may make their way by blood-vessels to the ends of long bones, to which they can only have gained access by the large nutrient arteries of. the shaft, or of the smaller nutrient vessels passing in at the ends to nourish the epiphyses. The erysijpelas organism may be taken as a type of the organisms which spread by the lymphatic spaces and vessels. . Here they set up'~an acute, partially localised, but gradually spreading lymphan- gitis. The lymphangitis occurring in the early stages of poisoned wounds has come within the experience of most observers. Most pathogenic micro-organisms appear to have the power of producing toxic substances, some of which, although they have a stimulating elect brnthn^protoplasm of the cells, gradually cause exhaustion of their powers, so that ultimately these cells become depressed and incapable of resisting the attack of the bacteria. The changes produced m the protoplasm may be so profound that the cells undergo more or less complete de^heration. In the case of pyogenic oi^nisnrs7'and'”bf the tubercle bacillus, the devitalisation of the cells is such a mai’ked feature that the presence of toxic products was eai’ly suggested as the cause of the changes set up; buf~bHly comparatively recently has the importance of this factor been recog- nised in connection with such organisms as the tetanus bacillus. When this organism is inoculated alone, that is, as pure culture separated from its products, it appears to be incapable of producing any lesion, either local or general, the active tissue cells being able to destroy the organism before it has time to pi’oduce any of its poisons or to exert any markedly deleterious action on the tissues. If, however, even a small quantity of ThfiL-poisonous-prodnets of the drgmism, or ot certain non-pathogenic bacteria, or of such a substance as lactic acid be mtroduced along with the pathogenic organism, the tissues appeal^bo be so "pafalvsed^r pre-occupied that they are no longer able to preYent~~Elre~xrrtal~mia^^^ of the.^ micro- organisms, which are left free to multiplv~~^d elaborate their poisonous products from the proteid nutrient material contained in the tissue fluids. It has been stated that tetanus bacilli protected in threads, in splinters of wood, in collections of fluids, or in clots to which the tissue cells cannot gain direct access, are .specially deadly; and this for two reasons, (1) they are well provided with nutriment and .suitable temperature and moisture, and (2) consequently are able to produce large quantities of their products which act upon the surrounding ti.ssues. As regards the invasion of the various cavities and chamiels of the body, it must be recognised that distinct protective barriers are