INJURIES OF BONES. 802 with a corresponding hollow on the anterior surface, which can be readily increased, but removal of the angular deformity requires some force. In greenstick fractures crepitus may be slight or absent, and so mav be the deformity. Such fractures are limited to posterior fissures (Fig. 237), after the infliction of which the bone springs back to or towards its normal form; but localised “fracture-pain” and tenderness are present with more or less impairment of movement, and in a few days a callus tumour appears. To detect such cases digital examination of the whole length of the bone must be very careful. In the i-are double, multii)le, and comminuted fractures of the clavicle, deformity is great, and the intermediate fragments are much displaced. Outer third.—Fractures here ai’e often transverse; they are divided according as they lie between (Fig. 236) the coraco-clavicular ligaments (inter- ligamentous) or external to them (extra - ligamen- tous). In all, the coraco - clavicular ligaments con- tinue to sling the coracoid process and arm from the inner fragment, so that the outer fra<^ment is not so much depressed by the weight of the arm as it may be in the previous group. The deformity depends largely upon the intensity of the original violence. In the fairly inter-ligamentous cases, from slight or moderate violence, the fragments remain closely connected by the ligaments, trapezius, and deltoid, and often become interlocked, so that little deformity may result. Usually the shouldei rolls forwards and drops a little, so that the outer fragment slopes out wards, downwards, and abnormally forwards from the line of fracture. In extra-ligamentous cases the fragments are more loosely connected ; the scapula swings forwards, turning on the coraco-clavicular liga- ments, until the short outer fragment may lie at right angles to the inner ; the scapula also falls inwards, lowering the thin outer fragmen till it may become disengaged from the inner. Then a stnking resemblance to a dislocation of the clavicle on to the acromion is pru duced, the inner fragment standing out prominently half an inch or more above the outer fragment and acromion. Error is P’^^vented by noting the form and roughness of the prominence, by the dis^ covery of the outer fragment, and by the crepitus accompanying Fractures in this region are quite ^ several of those from muscular violence have tj^^t The line of fracture is very variable ; perhaps the common Fi" 237 —Greenstick Fracture of the Clavicle from a Child n"ed ”'5 years. The fracture is situate at the junction of the outer and middle thirds; the posterior lamellai are broken trans- versely, the anterior merely bent. A long fissure runs in- wards'from the fracture, a short one outwards. (St. George s Hospital, Series I. 76.) (Pick.)