FBACTUREB OF THE FEMUR. 837 that the angle diminishes in advanced age on account of senile degeneration (page 726). At the base the vertical diameter is twice the antero-posterior; passing inwards the former decreases rapidly, the latter increases more slowly, and the two diameters become equal a little below the head—this is the “narrow part” of the neck. In a coronal section of the head and neck we note that the under sur- face of the neck is formed by a layer of compact bone of considerable thickness continuous below with the inner wall of the shaft, ending above in numerous cancelli passing to the head. The concavity downwards and inwards of this arch increases, and its power ’ of resisting vertical pressure di- minishes the lower the angle of the neck. From its upper convex aspect most of the “pressure la- mellae ” rise which radiate to the great trochanter, to the upper sur- face of the neck, and especially to the head, and which are crossed and bound together by tlie “ten- sion lamellm ” from the outer wall of the shaft and upjjer boundary of the section. More than half the width of the head is seen to pro- ject inwards beyond the extremity of this strut. An oblique section through the same parts at right angles to the coronal plane shows that anteriorly the compact layer thickens to the line of attachment of the capsule (capsular portion of spiral line). Posteriorly the compact layer is everywhere thin, and that covering the roll-like intertrochan- teric line seems to overlap rather than to be continuous with the layer on the back of the femur. The more nearly the section approaches the small trochanter, the more clearly do we see a layer of compact bone (calcar femorale) deep to tlie trochanteric _ ridge; and we find that it is a section of a vertical plate springing from the inner wall opposite the inferior tubercle of the neck, ri.sing up in the line of pressure and giving origm to many pressure-lamellae. It is said that the calcar is specially prone to waste in old age.^ Lastly, it must be noted that, with the toes turned out as usual in lying and standing, the neck slopes markedly backwards and the great trochanter lies in a plane decidedly pos- terior to that of the head. ^ Fig. 274.—A Femur sliowiug moderate Ab- sorption of the Neck, after intra-capsu- lar Fracture. Tlie position of the head in the drawing was determined by care- ful measurements of the sound bone- In this case there was little or no union of the fragments, and the body-weight was transmitted to the femur by the capsule and muscles. (Chai-ing Cross Museum, No. 875.) t above it seems likely that force acting in the line of the body-weight will .snap the neck at the “ narrow part,” and that there will be some tendency for the compact layer under