treatment of gunshot wounds. “■'t- SI in Ifhe parts should then be dustecf with iodoforin, and subsequently en’veloi^ed with any of the various wool-dressings in vogue—e.^. with salicylated cotton-wool or Tillmann’s dressing—and the case of an extremity, be immobilised. But where we find com- minuted fracture, free splinters, great damage to a, jomt,_h£Emoirha e from some large vessel, or wound of an abdommal yiscus, digita exploration is demanded. The aperture of entrance is enlarged if neLssary and the finger, previously disinfected, is slowly pushed into the deepest recesses of the wound. Its route is thus determined the amount of injury estimated, and the presence of any pieces of cloth ascertained. Should the wound be too long for the finger a vertebrated probe may be used, care being taken not to injure the vessels To obviate the difficulty sometimes experienced in ascer- taining the presence of the bullet, Nffiaton’s porcelain probe or Leconfte’s stylet-pince can be employed. Longmore has suggested a simple method by means of the magnet of an ordmary pocket-compass, which, having some turns of copper wire covered with thread wound round it as an induction coil, forms the electric indicator. ^ A copper coin, covered with fiannel steeped in acid, is placed in a piece of zinc sheeting. One insulated wire with its exploring needle is attached to the copper coin, the other, with the compass held in its course, to the zinc sheeting. When the circuit is completed by contact with the bullet, the deflection of the magnet indicates ffis presence. Lastly, Deneux recommends chemical exploration. He fixes on the end of a flexible probe some charpie impregnated with dilute acid, which is then pressed against the suspected body. Iodide of potassium then applied to the charpie gives a yellow colour should lead be present, and ammonia a blue colour in the case of lead or bronze. Of all the above proceedings exploration by the Anger gives the best results. Pieces of clothing can be distinguished, as well as the flxation or mobility of the bullet. In cases where we can obtain no positive evidence we have then only the local signs to trust to. The bullet being discovered, it must then be removed by forceps, such as Coxeter’s, Luers’, or Steavenson’s. The treatment of liaiinorrliage.—The surgeon hitherto has had to treat more often secondary haemorrhage, but in future wars primary haemorrhage will be more frequently met with, as the modern bullet causes less contusion of the vessels, and a cleaner cut, ivhilst under antiseptic treatment secondary haemorrhage will be less fre- quent, inasmuch as its chief cause was due to septic changes in the wound. The haemorrhage may be arterial, venous, or parenchymatous. (1) Arterial.—Primary or secondary. For provisional treatment on the actual fleld, a tourniquet may be improvised by a bayonet and bandage. The ordinary fleld tourniquet is apt to slip during the transit of the patient to the field hospital. Failing a tourniquet the limb may be bent on itself, or Esmarch’s bandage may be used. A partial wound of the vessel is more dangerous than one in which