DISEASES OF NERVES. G96 the nerve more readily, and to ascertain its condition with much greater certainty. IVerves of Hie head ami iiccR. The supra-orbital nerve and the siopratrochlear nerve.—These are best exj)0sed by an incision carried parallel with the eye-brow and just beneath it, so that the line of the incision is hidden by the folds of skin in this situation. The supra-oi’bital notch can be easily felt in most cases, and the nerve will be found emerging from it, and turning directly upwards after the incision has been canned through the skin and some of the fibres of the orbicularis muscle. The supratrochlear nerve lies nearly half an inch to the inner side of the supra-orbital notch, and may be exposed by a similar incision. The infra-orbital nerve.—The infra-orbital canal is in a line drawn from the supra-orbital notch to the canine tooth of the same side. The nerve is exposed by an incision carried across this line, about an inch below the lower margin of the orbit. After dividing the skin and some of the facial muscles—chiefly the zj'gomatici—the orifice of the canal can usually be felt with a probe-pointed director. While this is held with its point in the canal, an aneurysm needle should be passed so as to pick up the nerve and artery as they emerge from the bony channel, the point of the needle being passed on to* the bone before it ;s dipped to pick up the nerve. In most cases the infra-orbital artery is picked tip with the nerve, but the latter can easily be isolated as soon as it is brought into view. The free bleeding which results from incisions in the face usually renders it difficult to see to the bottom of the wound in this operation, and a little time is well spent, after dividing the skin and muscles, in plugging the wound with .sponge for a few minutes, to stop some of the oozing. j • • ■ Meckel’s ganglion.—To excise this ganglion, a curved mcision, with the convexity downwards, should be made, so that the centre of it is about half an inch below the level of the infra-orbital canal. The flap thus reached should be dissected up to a point half an inch above the level of the canal, and the latter should then be exposed by the free division of the subjacent fat and facial muscles, and by cleaning the periosteum off the bone with a raspatory, ^le front wall of the antrum, just below the canal, must then be perforated with a small trephine, all bleeding points tied, and oozing stopped by spon-e prLsure. A slender Bowman’s probe should then be passed alon* the canal as far as possible, and, using tins as a guide, the floor°of the canal must be cut away from below with bone scissois until the posterior wall of the antrum is reached. This, in its turn bein- perforated by the trephine, the ganglion will be reached by tracing the infra-orbital nerve to its junction therewith. Tlie ganglion and the nerve are then to be cut away with curved blunt-pointed scissors. Hemorrhage must be arrested by plugging. ne denM nerm.-TUs nerve nmy be exposed e.to from within the mouth or by skin incisions. In the former inetl o the mouth is opened widely with a gag, and an incision is earned