487 DEltM0IlJ8. countries. Of the liability of savages to cancer notliing is known. Cancer of the intestinal and gastric glands is common in both sexes, but cancer of the prostate, thyroid, pancreas, and tlie glands of the body of the uterus are exceptional. Cancer in the restricted sense in which the teim is here em- ployed is unknown before puberty: it is very rare indeed, before the a"e of twenty-five, but after that peiiod it becomes common, and increases with each decade of life. These facts are the reverse of those observed in regard to adenomata. Termination.—The modes by which cancer kills varies with the situation of the tumour : thus mammary cancer causes death by implicating the pleura, or by secondary deposits in the lungs, brain, etc. Uterine can- cer will induce death from bleeding, or from nephritis or uraemia due to implication of the ureters; or from peri- tonitis. Cancer of the intestine is usually fatal from intestinal obstruction or peritonitis, gasti-ic cancer from starva- tion and thyroid cancer from suffocation. GROUP III. DERMOIDS. Dermoids are tumours fur- nished with skin or mucous membrane occurring in situa- tions where these stractures Fig. 128.—Dermoid at the Outer Augle of the are not found under normal conditions. They only possess tissues and structures which naturally belong to skin or mucous membrane. Dermoids may be arranged in four genera: 1, Seques- tration dermoids; 2, tuWlo-dermoids; 3, ovarian dermoids; 4, dermoid patches. 1. Sequestration dermoids.—The species of this genus arise in detached or sequestrated portions of surface epithelium, chiefly in places where, during embryonic life, coalescence takes place between skin-covered surfaces. The chief lines of coalescence in the trunk are situated in the mid-dorsal and mid-ventral regions, and extend from the external occipital protuberance backwards along the spine through the peri- neum (and scrotum in the male) forwards to the episternal notch. Dermoids occur in any part of this extensive line. In the face dermoids occur in connection with all the facial fissures, including the mesop.alatine. These temporary fissures are