DISEASES OF JOINTS. 1052 gout,” “chronic osteo-arthritis,” “arthritis senilis,” “arthritis sicca” or “nodosa,” and lately “polypanarthritis.” The number of these designations indicates in itself that none of them are held to convey any clear characterisation of the disease. But in the present imperfect state of our knowledge as to the path- ology of the condition, it is just as well to employ some term which implies no particular theory as to ultimate causation. The terai “ osteo-arthritis ” is probably less open to objection than any of the others mentioned, and is, perhaps, the most commonly used at ^ Patliolog'y.—Osteo arthritis is essentially a disease of latei life, and occurs, in the great preponderance of cases, after fifty, though occasionally found among feeble individuals at an earlier age. it is far more common among the ill-fed and badly-clothed than among the more favoured classes. It has thus come to be called poor man s eout.” A»ain, habitual exposure to severe changes of weather appears to dispose to it, not only by acting locally upon the joints, but also bv lowering the general nutrition of the body. The disease, indeed, appears to depend, at all events in its beginnings, upon some loss of vFtality in the tissues of the body, generally due to several depress- ing causes combined, which leads up to depnerative changes But as the condition advances we recognise the introduction ^i factors, in the shape of subacute inflammatory processes, due to the disturbance of function depending upon the degenerative pj^^ng in the first instance. It would be incorrect, then, to desciibe this affection in the form in which it is usually met, as purely degenoia- tive, seeing that its more marked results are those secondary toflammation, not always destructive, but often of a '’'“1?*e”examme a joint in ™Mch this affection is in its ea.-fet Stages many striking alterations are evident, even to the naked eye. In the first place, the articular cartilages will appear roughened, and on dose fns^pection fibrillated, the fibrils standing vertical to the surface but^all this without any evidence of infiammation. Tins now believed to be W result f cartilage cells, and their removal leaving behind nothin^ ot the 'orig&i stn-ctico but the intercellular matrix in the fo™ of columns and fibres This degeneration may be due to age, exposu , unhealthy blooisupply to all *o ^ it°mayt1 to the hrsttostonce, by surfaces of the bone are actually in contact