541 SECONDAttY IfyEMOliUEAGE. within twenty-four hours of the inUiction of a wound, before the process which results in the cicatrisation of tlie vessel is at all advanced. It is, in fact, a recurrence of the prhnary bleeding, and it most often arises from imperfect arrest of the primary haemorrhage. Causes.—(1) The first is reaction from the shock of an injury or operation ; this is attended with increased heart-power and dilatation of arteries, and therefore soft, recently-formed coagula are liable to be forced out of divided vessels. The frequency with which this form of haemorrhage arises from premature or excessive reaction has led to its being also called reactionary luemorrhage. (2) The other great cause is movement of the yart displacing an external clot, and dragging upon the central clot and opening up the vessel again. Movement may also displace a badly-applied ligature ; it is also injurious, by stimulating the heart and increasing the arterial tension. (3) Slipping of a ligature from faulty application, or its very rapid softening, may allow the vessel to open up again. (4) Failure to secure the distal end of a divided artery.—It sometimes happens that the distal end of a divided artery does not bleed at the time, but after an interval, when the heart has recovered its power, and the anastomosing vessels have dilated, blood reaches and flows from the open distal end of the artery. (5) Failure to occlude the lumen of a loounded artery which is the seat of a punctured wound.—We have already mentioned the great liability to recurrence of the bleeding from punctured wounds of an artery if the stream of blood through the vessel is not arrested. The clot which forms in the puncture is very liable to lie forced out during reaction from the shock of the injury, when the blood pressure rises to the normal, or even above the normal. As intermediary haemorrhage is a recurrence of primary haemorr- hage, and has no special features of its own, it must be treated in all cases in accordance with the piinciples that guide in the treatment of primary bleeding. The wound must be opened, and the bleeding vessel sought and secured by a ligature. Secondary haemorrhage.—Secondary haemorrhage is usually defined as occurring at any time between twenty-four hours after the infliction of a wound and its complete healing. Such a defini- tion is meaningless and useless, and ought to be abandoned. The true definition of this variety of haemorrhage is “ bleeding arising from failure in the repair of an injured or ligatured vessel, or from ulceration into a vessel.” Most of the cases are traumatic in origin, but haemorrhage arising from ulceration into an artery is of the same nature, and requires the same treatment as secondary traumatic haemorrhage. No form of bleeding is so insidious or so terrible as secondary haemorrhage, and its treatment is beset with difficulties. It is very important for the surgeon to be thoroughly acquainted with its causation and phenomena, and to have a firm grasp of the principles to be applied in its treatment. Formerly it was of frequent occurrence, but the introduction of aseptic surgery