ACUTE ABSCESS. 87 be seen throngh it; and by-and-by it gives way, and the pns escapes externally. Accompanying these local signs, there are the various cnns/i/'ii/ionnl s^/m'ploms which have been already referred to under acute inflammation. Diagnosis of acute abscess.—The diagnosis of acute abscess is seldom difficult once pus has definitely formed. The fii'st difficulty is to be sure that pus has actually formed in the case of deep-seated inflammations ; but the length of time which the inflammation has lasted, the continuance of the pain and swelling, the presence of oedema of the skin, and the other signs already mentioned, will enable one, at any rate, to form a strong suspicion on the matter. In some cases it is very difficult to distinguish an acute abscess from a very rapidly growing sarcomatous tumour. I have myself seen such a sarcoma of the upper jaw incised under the impression that it was an acute abscess, and in that case there were present all the local signs of an acute inflammation in the form of rapid formation of the swelling, redness of the skin, indefinite sensation of fiuctuation, and great pain. It is said also that aneurysm has been mistaken for an acute abscess. This, however, is hardly likely to occur, unless sup- puration has actually taken place in or around the aneurysmal sac, in which case, of course, the surgeon has really to do with an acute abscess. Where there is any doubt of this kind it may be well to introduce an aspirator needle in the first instance, to ascertain the natxire of the fluid present. As a matter of fact, apart from the suppuration of an aneurysmal sac, the only other condition in which a mistake might be committed is where the connection between the sac and the vessel has been moi’e or less completely cut off, so that pulsation has become abolished, and where the contents of the sac still remain fluid. Such a case has been opened under the impression that it was a chronic abscess, and the fluid which came out in the first instance was clear serum, very quickly followed, however, by red blood. Treatment of acute abscess.—In the early stage, before sup- puration has definitely formed, the treatment is that which has been already described under acute inflammation (page 66) ; but when once it is certain or probable that pus is present, means must be taken to open the abscess without further delay, and to provide a free exit for the pus. There is no object whatever in permitting an acute abscess to go on till it reaches the skin. To do so is simply to allow the formation of a much larger cavity, and the consequent destruction of or interference with the tissues in the neighbourhood : and if it should happen that pus is not found on making the incision after all, the best thing has been done with the view of cutting the inflammation short. When it is decided to open an abscess, the external opening should be free, and should in all cases—unless about the face or neck, where it is xmdesirable to have a larger scar than necessary—be large enough to enable the surgeon to introduce his finger into the cavity. As regards the position of the opening in cases of acute