116 TJLGEIiATION. lint or other antiseptic dressing is applied, and the whole fixed on with a bandage. AVhere the ulcers are very painful, or where there are sloughs on the surface, or where there is any acute inflammatory action, it is well to employ the boracic lint in the form of a fomentation, that is to say, the boracic lint is applied wet, the lotion being only very imperfectly squeezed out of it, and outside the lint a piece of mackintosh cloth is placed, overlapping the lint in all directions. This should be changed twice daily, but should not be continued after the irritable condition of the sore has ceased, or after the sloughs have separated, otherwise the granulations are very apt to become cedematous, and one form of weak ulcer may be produced. (4) A fourth object in the treatment of ulcers common to all of them is that attempts should be made to get rapid healing with as little contraction as possible, and further, to obtain a scar which will subsequently be sound. In the case of ulcers affecting the lower extremities, especially in oldish people, the scar obtained where an ulcer is allowed to heal of itself is usually weak, and commonly breaks down again if the patient stands or walks much, and this is more especially the case where imperfect contraction of the sore has taken place, as, for example, where the base of the sore is adherent to the bone. Where a really sound scar is desired—and it is desired in all cases of ulcer of the leg—the best method is to employ skin grafting, preferably by the plan introduced by Thiersch. §k.iii grafting'.—The earliest method of skin grafting is that known as Reverdin’s method^ which is, however, really epidermis grafting rather than true skin grafting. In his plan, minute portions of the superficial layer of the epidermis were shaved oflf and applied at numerous places over the surface of the sore, at a distance from each other of about a quarter to half an inch. These grafts were left undisturbed, care being taken not to wash them off, and in the first instance not to change the dressing for some days, and for the best success in this plan it is necessary that the sore should be aseptic. These minute grafts of epidermis adhere to the surface of the granulations, and very soon we find spreading around each graft a narrow line of young epidermis, so that instead of the sore having to heal altogether from the edge, the epidermis sprouts over it from numerous points on the surface. The result is that much more rapid healing is obtained than by the ordinary treatment of the sore, and consequently less granulation tissue is formed and the resulting con- traction is correspondingly less. It is necessary to place these grafts pretty close together, because it is found that the epidermic formation around each graft only extends to an area of about the size of a sixpence, and then seems to come to a standstill. While the sores so treated heal rapidly, and the resulting contraction is less, there is, nevertheless, a large amount of contraction, Avhile the resulting scar is not matei’ially stronger than that which follows healing without this method of epidermic grafting. With the view of obtaining a sounder scar and of avoiding the