1080 DISEASES OF JOINTS. The treatment consists in free incision of the joint and washing it out thoroughly. It is remarkable how well such wounds will subsequently heal when we consider that the edges of our in- cision are bathed in the septic pus which we let out. I have lately had such a case where the joint was completely disorganised by chronic pyremic disease, the result of some infection before the patient entered the hospital. Here after free incision and removal of much diseased bone, including part of the acetabulum and the head of the femur, which were carious, the wound rapidly healed, and the patient, a man of about thirty, is now walking about with a very useful limb. This is all the more re-assuring, as such opera- tions on adult hips for other forms of disease, such as the tubercular, are usually followed when they heal by very great weakness in the limb. Syphilitic disease of the hip is not commonly described, except in that form of congenital or infantile disease^ of the epi- physes already discussed as far as is necessary (page 1065). Tuberculous disease of the hip.—This is one of the most common affections in surgery. Points of OJ’igin. It is most fre- quently met with at the two extremes of life, among the very young and the very old, though not unknown among those of middle life and young adults. It has its starting-point either in the head of the femur, the acetabulum, or in the synovial membrane. Exact data upon the relative frequency of its appearance in these situations are want- incr, but as far as our knowledge in this direction goes, it is believed to\e most frequently found to start in the femur, next in the syno- vial membrane, and more rarely in the acetabulum. In jery youn» patients it is more likely to start in the bones, in adults in whom the epiphysial growth is completed it finds its most frequent starting-point in the synovial membrane. When we speak here of the head of the femur, it should be understood that thm-e are two spots in which the primary infection is likely to take place. ^ ihe commonest position is undoubtedly in the epiphysial line, ^.e. at the junction of the head and neck. But it may also start in t le ^rowing tissue underlying the encrusting cartilage of the head of the femur. And when it has its origin in the acetabulum, the process begins in the young embryonic tissue at the junction of e three bones in the centre of the hollow. When the synovial mem- brane is first invaded, it is, frequently at all events, in the loose folds which surround the ligamentum teres. From either of these points the whole of the joint may be invaded, but from_ each the disease can, on the other hand, spread outwards Avithout invading the surfaces, and may form an abscess outside the capsule, Avhich points exter- through the skin, leaving the joint proper nally, in some cases. practically intact. This is a most important fact to in nnnd Lwith improved means of diagnosis such cases from those in which the joint itself is invaded, and thus manj patients may be spared removal of parts of the bone an syno\ membrane, who formerly would have had a more or less complete excision performed upon them.