161 COMPLICATIONS. is seldom seen as a complication of wounds, but the existence of such a peculiarity would have to be taken into consideration before per- forming an operation upon anyone subject to it. Fehleisen, in his inoculation experiments, found that no permanent immunity was acquired. Patients could be successfully inoculated over and over again, provided that an interval of a month or two was allowed to intervene. Complications.—Some of the complications of erysipelas have been mentioned. Many are purely local, or due to direct extension from the original seat; others are of a more general character. Amongst the local complications may be mentioned suppuration, ulceration, sloughing, gangrene, lymphangitis, lymphadenitis, phlebi- tis, neuritis, acute in- flammation of sheaths of tendons, and of arti- culations, and acute suppurative periostitis and necrosis. Among one hundred and thirty cases of erysipelas Ritz- mann records that the joints of the foot were twice involved, and the knee, elbow, and shoulder each once. The joints named were acutely inflamed, and in some instances sup- puration followed. Amongst the later local complications may be mentioned a per- sistent cedema, which sometimes ensues, and produces permanent thickening or elephantiasis. When the sheaths of tendons have been implicated, limitations of movement in the fingers or toes may result, and ankylosis when the joints have been involved. When erysipelas attacks the organs of special sense, it may destroy sight, or smell, or hearing, or greatly impair these functions. Muscular paralyses occasionally follow erysipelas, especially of the pharynx after erysipelas of the fauces (Todd). Many com- plications are caused by direct extension from the original seat. For instance, in facial erysipelas the inflammation may spread to the eye, conjunctiva, lachrymal apparatus, orbit, nose, pharynx, or larynx, or to the lungs and air-passages. From the phaiynx it sometimes extends along the Eustachian tube to the middle ear. In the air-passages it may cause a fatal oedema of the glottis. Perh.aps the parotiditis which sometimes complicates facial erysipelas is Pig. 26.—Streptococci in the Heart's Blood from a Case which died of Septicaemia after Erysipelas. (Prom a microphotograph by Mr. Coseus.)