SYPHILIS. in the same set of teeth. The incisor teeth in the subjects of inherited syphilis may fall ont or require to be extracted early in life. The first molars are frequently deprived of their enamel and wear down quickly, as a result both of syphilitic and mercurial stomatitis. Next to the teeth, the eyes deserve most thorough examination, which may reveal the remains of interstitial keratitis, or of iritis, or choroiditis. The tibice should always be inspected in a doubtful case, and nodes may be found on the skull and other bones. The depressed bridge of the nose., scars about the palate or fauces, and persistent enlwrgement of the liver are all suspicious symptoms. The forehead is not infrequently depressed transversely just above the eyebrows with a bony projection running across above the groove, but this change shonld be very marked for importance to be attached to it, and the same remark applies to the high narrow arch of the palate. As regards the history, that of snuffles and cutaneous eruption, and of condylomata in infancy may help in the diagnosis, and the mother’s record as to child-bearing is of great importance. Finally, it should be remembered that syphilis is no respecter of persons, and that the congenital taint is sometimes overlooked from a mistaken belief on the surgeon’s part that the parents have always been too vii-tuous to incur the risk of transmitting the disease. It is often necessary or advisable to make the diagnosis without asking any direct questions, and it may be repeated that interstitial keratitis, notched and narrowed upper central incisors, the peculiar form of deafness, the painless synovitis of the knees, and some of the bone lesions already described, are the most trustworthy elements in the diagnosis, and that most of them can be produced by no other disease than inherited syphilis. Treatment of late inherited syphilis.—As regards the treat- ment, we need only say that it is the same as that for tertiary acquired syphilis, the dose of mercury or iodide being varied according to the patient’s age, etc. It is often advisable to give tonics at the same time, and the syrup of iodide of iron is very largely used for this purpose. Prognosis of inherited syphilis.—Can the subject of inherited syphUis contract the disease on his own account 1 A few clear cases of this have been met with, but remarkably few. As regards the question of marriage, there is not the slightest evidence of syphilis being ever transmitted “to the third generation.” Too gloomy a view of the effects of inherited syphilis should not be gathered from the account just given. It is undoubtedly responsible for an enor- mous infantile mortality, but, on the other hand, many of its subjects <rrow up to be strong and healthy in every way. In late childhood, or about puberty, there is the special liability to eye and bone dis- eases, etc., bub after this period is gone through, no other symptoms may occur. In many instances, the only evidence lies in a single symptom, such as the peculiar teeth or the occurrence of keratitis.