DISEASES OF NERVES. 700 Very slight handling causes severe pain, which is often very charac- reristicaily distributed to the skin area supplied by the diseased nerve, and spasm of the muscles is easily produced by rolling the tumour beneath the fingers. The benign or malignant character of the growth may be diagnosed, though not with certainty, by con- sideration of the rapidity of its growth and the size attained. Finally, it should be mentioned that in some cases neuromata are multiple, and in some instances such tumours, composed of fibrous tissue, have been found to the number of several hundreds scattered over the nerves in all parts of the body. Treatment. — Removal is the only treatment that can be practised. The in- cision should be made in the long axis of the nerve, and such incisions as are necessary to free the tumours should also be made in the same direction, so as to avoid as far as possible the section of the nerve fibres. If ex- cision of the portion of the nerve containing the tumour be necessary, the trunk should first be very thoroughly stretched, so that after the resection the cut sm’face may be sutured. In other cases where, on account of the large size of the tumour, it is impossible to reunite the severed nei’ve, a suitable portion of the nerve of a rabbit or of a recently amputated limb should be introduced as a graft, and sutured between the severed ends. Fig. 194 —Knee Joint from a Case of Charcot's Disease. III. SURGICAL AFFECTIONS COMPLICATING DISEASES OF THE SPINAL CORD. It is only within recent years that many surgical aflections which are now recognised as being due to disease of the spinal coid have been referred to their true source, so numerous and far-reaching that it is only possible to a lude hme to the most important of them. It may. however, be “ many of these complications are in all respects similai to those vine follow on injuries of the spine, and that the cystitis, sthmil bed-sores, etc., which are so often seen after crushes of the spii *