277 CHL0B0F0R3L and fro bv turning the valves off; and ether is admitted in increasing ^ rotatincr the ether chamber. When clonic movements, r» arise, one breath of air should be trivCT The administration is subsequently conducted as a,lieady described (page 274: paragraph 4). This particular method gives better results than the preceding in dental practice and in an0e.s- thetising powerfully-built or alcoholic men for ordinary surgical opeiatmns.^l^lo^o^^^,^^_ “Open” metUo<l.-This is to be pre- ferred to other methods for ordinary cases. A double thickness of lint pinched up into the shape of a small fan, the ^rner of a towel drawn through a safety-pin, a Skinner’s mask (Fig. 51), or any similar arrangement permitting free access of air, may be employed. Closely-fitting inhalers should never be used. The best form of drop-bottle for sprinkling the chloroform is that known as Thomas s. A few drops of the ansesthetic should first be dropped upon the lint, towel, or mask, which should be held a trifle away from the face. The object of the anaesthetist should be to keep up the more or less continuous administration of a well-diluted va- pour ; not to give the anaesthetic in- tei’mittently and irregularly. He must steer between two extremes. On the one hand, too strong a vapour, with the absence of sufiicient air, will cause struggling, rigidity, and sus- . pended breathing; on the other hand, too dilute a vapour, or the inter- mittent administration of very small quantities at a time, will ca,use delay, imperfect anaesthesia, pallor, feebleness of pulse, and vomitmg. These remarks apply more particularly to moderately healthy and vio-orous subjects, not to exhausted or feeble persons. The few drops first sprinkled on the lint should be quickly followed by a few drops more, and the lint more closely applied. Any holding of the breath should be met by slightly removing the lint. As the administration proceeds, respiration grows audible and deeper. Incoherent speech, excitement, and muscular rigidity are not uncommon in cei tain subjects. Should respiration be temporarily suspended during the stage of rigidity, the chloroform should be removed during the deep and quick breaths which follow, but re-applied gradually as these breaths lessen in force and frequency. It this precaution be not adopted, an over-dose may be given; for the circulation, having already absorbed a considerable quantity of chloroform prioi’ to and during the suspended breathing, will quickly absorb a considerable quantity more during the forcible respirations which follow. Some- times there is no rigidity or excitement. But under either set of circumstances the breathing gradually becomes regular and softly snoring, the dilated pupils of partial ana;sthesia grow smaller, the muscular system becomes completely relaxed, and the cornere Fig. 51.—Skinner’s Mask.