NERVE-STBETGHINQ. 695 Clinical application of nci vc-stietcliinf?.—When nerve- stretching was first introduced, it was employed in many cases of disease of the central nervous system, but it may be said with con- tidence that in such cases it is certainly of no material advantage in promoting a cure, although it may improve symptoms. Its utility is best demonstrated in cases of neuralgia and in certain nerve lesions. Thus, in cases of inflammatory thickening, either of a nerve itself or of the tissues around it, the neuralgic pain caused by the pressure is often greatly relieved by exposing the nerve at the affected area, separating it from the tissue around it, and thoroughly stretching it. It may also be employed in cases of spasm—e.g. in facial spasm— and to alleviate hypersesthesia, from whatever cause arising. In a few cases of tabes dorsalis the operation appears to have relieved the “lightning” and “boi'ing” pains, and in some cases other symptoms are said to have been improved. In certain cases of facial neuralgia nerve-stretching appears to act very beneficially, and is prefei’red by some surgeons to neurotomy or neurectomy. The way in which nerve-stretching causes improve- ment is probably not always the same. It is evident that when a nerve trunk is more or less compressed by scar tissue or fixed by adhesions, the mechanical separation of the nerve is likely to be beneficial; and the many recorded cases of improvement in cases of pressure by cicatrices, of neuralgic pains follomng injuries, etc., are in this way most readily explained. The action of nerve-stretching in chronic neuritis is probably of a similar nature. It has also been suggested that the operation may act by freeing the nervi nervorum from surrounding adhesions. In many other cases, however, espe- cially in neuralgia, any good results that may ensue are probably due to rupture or injury to the nerve tubules themselves, and to the resulting impairment in the conductivity of the nerve. It is pro- bable that in nerve-stretching we tear the tubules not only of the trunk we operate upon, but of other branches as well, which are diffi- cult—perhaps impossible—to reach with a knife. Thus in stretch- ing the infra-orbital nerve, it is probable that the branch passing downwards in the floor of the orbit to the teeth is also stretched, and in operating on the inferior dental, the branches to the individual teeth are influenced. Thus, the effects of nerve-stretching may be more widely spread than those of neurotomy, and in dealing with the mixed nerves of the extremities it is evident that such an operation is often preferable to division, considering that the latter will cause not only anaesthesia, but permanent muscular paralysis as well. Neurotomy and neurectomy.—The operations of cutting down upon a nerve and dividing it, and of cutting out a portion of the trunk, are, like the similar operations for exposing arteries, per- foi-med at certain “ seats of election,” where the nerves can be most easily reached, and with the least possible injury to the surroundimr parts. In all such operations on the limbs, the use of an Esmarch’s bandage greatly facilitates matters, and enables the surgeon to find