PRAGTURJiS OP ‘PHP LEG-BONPS. 663 iut. lateral ligament partly to it, jDartly to the shaft. Hutchinson collected ten cases, ages 12 to 16; cause, violent wrenches; displacement either slight and forwards or altogether absent. The knee joint is sure to suffer in so severe an injury to one of its con- stituent structures. The quadriceps has occasionally pulled off the tubercle of the tibia, which may grow from a separate centre. The ac- cident has generally re- sulted from jumping or vaulting the “ horse.” Treatment. — Reduc- tion of the displacement and fixation of the limb. Hutchinson quotes a case of arrested development from Volkmann; Stimson figures another, which he attributes to Bryant. The tubercle could be easily fixed by a pin or two driven through the skin. si* y , Fi; Pig. 315.—Fracture of botli Bones of the Leg at tlie Junction of the middle and lower Thirds. The lines of fracture ran from before downwards and backwards. The lower fragments were drawn up in front and to the inner side of the upper frag- ments. strong imion has occurred, callus bridging the interosseous space. The fibula sustained a second fracture lower down which united with- out di.splacoment. The tibia shows a fissure which starts on the articular surface near the malleolus and ascends on the poste- rior aspect. It presents little sign of healing. This injury resulted almost certainly fi-oin direct vio- lence. (Gliaring Cross Mu- seum, No. 410.) 314.—The ordinary oblique Fracture of the Tibia from behind downwards, forwards, and inwards at the junction of the lower and middle thirds (en bee de filite). Also a fracture, correspond- ingly oblique, near the neck of the fibula. (Charing Cross Mu- seum, No. 405.) period of Fractures of the tibia and fibula form 10-2 per cent, of all frac- tiu’es ; they are, perhaps, the commonest fractures. Fractures of the tibia alone form 1-8 per cent., and of the fibula alone 2-0 per cent. They occur at all periods of life, but are most common during the greatest activity and danger. Indirect violence is a commoner cause than direct, but both are frequent. Several cases are known of separation of the head of the fibula (an epiphysis up to 24) by vio- let contraction of the biceps, due to an effort to prevent falling. Other fractures from muscular action must be very rare. Direct violence causes fracture, often vdth comminution and wound over the sharp tibial edge, at the point struck; if both bones are broken they yield at about the same level