INJURIES OF liLOOD-VESSELS. 524 in some cases of haenioiThago from the frenum prceputii and from the scalp. The point of a lancet drawn across the bottom of the bleeding vessel is the best means to employ. III. THE EFFECTS OF LOSS OF BLOOD. The quantity lost.—Uncontrolled hsemorrhage, however pro- duced and wherever occurring, is inevitably fatal; but the quantity of blood that may be lost without sacrifice of life varies very much according to the age, sex, and constitutional state of the individual, and to the nature and rapidity of the haemorrhage. Infants and young children bear any loss of blood badly, a relatively small loss being either fatal or attended with profound syncope; but the result- ° ing anajmia is quickly repaired. After puberty and up to middle life haemorr- hage is borne well, and its effects are most quickly recovered from. With ad- vancing age, loss of blood becomes in- creasingly serious and more permanent in its effects. Some have thought that women bear the loss of blood better than men. It is certain that a haemorrhage — say, the loss of a pint of blood—will cause much more marked effects in one individual than in another of the same age, sex, and general condition, and a constitutional peculiarity is assumed to Fig. 150.—Surgeon’s Knot. account for the difference. Effects.—The loss of a given amount of arterial blood produces a greater effect than the same amount escaping from a vein. This may be in part due to the greater rapidity of the flow from the artery, and in part to their relative oxygenation and carbonisation. The local anaemia and the loss of the force which affects the venous return from the part may also have an adverse influence. Veiy striking is the difference due to the rapidity of the haemo- rrhage. When an artery of the first magnitude is freely opened, the blood in the general arterial system flows out through the womid, as it is the direction of least resistance; and the venous circulation is at the same time arrested, owing to the loss of the vis a tergo. therefore, sudden fatal syncope, and the corpse has a leaden hue from the blood in the more or less well-filled veins. _ . When an artery of less than the first magnitude or a large vein la wounded, and continuous haemorrhage, ending in death, occurs, the first effect produced is a lessening of the ai-terial tension and an increase in the force and frequency of the heart s action, " > however, fails to compensate for the progressive emptying of the vessels. As a result, all the tissues of the body, including tie