794 INJUBJES OF BONES. unlikely. Callender stated that slow union often occurred in cases of obstinate oedema from deep-seated venous thrombosis. Diagnosis of defective union.—Both delayed union and pseudarthrosis are characterised by mobility continuing at the seat of fracture. Short lapse of time since the injury, only slight mobility, pain induced by movements, the presence of a well-marked cause of delayed union, and a history of crepitus having been obtained just before or during reduction, are in favour of delayed union rather than pseudarthrosis; but time must often be allowed to decide between them. The loss of this time is regrettable when pseudarthrosis ultimately becomes clear; for progressive anaemia and atrophy of the limb are unfavourable to any opera- tive treatment. These conditions are most marked in the young, in whom impaired growth is added to atrophy, and the bones may remain of almost infantile size : rarely is an operation successful in such cases, and statistics show that in all cases the chance of success diminishes with the duration of the pseudarthrosis. Asa rule, an ununited fracture of a long bone impairs the use- fulness of the part greatly—especially in the weight-bearing lower limb. The impairment is least with a small ununited fragment with a transverse fracture, short fibrous union, and steadying masses of bony callus thrown out, or with only one of two parallel bones afiected. Cases occur now and again in which function is marvel- lously preserved: those of great hypertrophy of the fibula to com- pensate for loss of streng-th in the tibia are well known. Treatment of defective union.—Any fault in the general health should be removed, if possible: even though no fault be found, it is right to place the patient before and during treatment under conditions most conducive to health. In delayed union, proper treatment of the fracture must be continued. The broken ends must be brought into contact by extension if they overlap. Absolute fixation is probably never indicated; but splints, if used, should be combined with regular massage, and such movements of muscles as can be practised by the patient without causing displace- ment ; with percussion of the fragments, covered with felt, with a mallet—either lightly each day or more severely at a week’s interval (Thomas); with free counter-irritation with linimentum iodiwith manipulation of the seat of fracture by the surgeon sufiiciently forcible to excite decided tenderness or even to rupture any existing union. With the lower limb it can generally be arranged that the part shall be used whilst displacement is prevented by splints and excessive weight is taken oflF by crutches, frequent friction, slight irritation and affluxus being the result. Should these means not induce bony union after patient trial, the case must be regarded as one of pseudarthrosis. _ , , In close fibrous union, even of some duration, bloodless means, such as the above, should first be tried, for they have not uncommonly induced ossification. But there is little hope of their success in loose fibrous union, non-union, and false joint.