1033 SIMPLE SYNOVITIS. safely asserted that the synovial membrane is by far the most frequently diseased, the bones next, and the ligaments next, wlule the cartilages are very rarely the seat of primary change. This comparative liability to disease appears to dej)end upon the physiological activity of each structure, those tissues being most open to disease which are most active in their cell life, while those in which the latter is sluggish seem to enjoy comparative immunity, whether from acute inflammatory change or from heteroplastic new growths. This was pointed out as an axiom in pathology long ago by Virchow, and is a most important fact to bear in mind. SIMPLE SY2STOVITIS DUE TO CAUSES OPEEATIUG FEOM WITHOUT. Inflammation of the synovial membrane, which is the first morbid process to be considered under our scheme, is a very common affection. It rnay be either 'primary, or secondary, either to other local primary disease, or to general conditions. It may, besides, be either acute, subacute, or chronic. 1. Simple primary acute synovitis. Patiioiogr This aflTection as commonly met with is usually the result of over-use, iAl^iry, or cold, and in its simplest forms is best studied in relation to either of these exciting causes. When a joint is violently overstrained or contused, or when it has been long exposed to cold and damp combined, the effect is usually to cause hyperiemia of the synovial membrane. This may vary from a transient flush to the most intense active congestion, ihe cause, pathologically expressed, is to be found in a more or less complete vasomotor paralysis affecting the smaller vessels of the synovial membrane. AU the usual consequences of this acute congestion are soon seen in the form of increased heat, redness tenderness, pain, and swelling. The increased heat is easily explained by the greater quantity of blood passing through the parts around than in the normal state. The redness is due to the same cause, as is also the hypersesthesia. The swelling of the joint on the other hand is not only due to the increase in amount of I cases, to the exudation of senm from its vessels producing oedema, and also to hypOT-secretion of synovium from the congested lining of the joint or effusion of synovium. ° ’ Such a joint if laid open, would exhibit the following chancres •— riie lining membrane would be somewhat swollen, deeply injected pink to deep purple, contmJting with the pearly-white, pale cartilage. It might also be thrown into folds if much swollen. At the same time, the capsule and parts around would also be found to be very vascular, and deeper in colour than norma . The synovial fluid in the joint in such cases is as alreadv increased in amount, and may be otherwise’ normal or H ^ admixture of effused serum, or turbid from the