616 ANEURYSM. the sac, tlie clot must be protected for two or three days by moderate compression of the main artery. This treatment differs from all other forms of treatment of aneurysms, in that for the time it entirely arrests the cii-culation in the part. The advantages of this method are its simplicity and rapidity. Its disadvantages are that it is so painful that it is usually necessary to administer an anassthetic; it often fails ; it may modify the general blood pressure to a serious extent, and, by causing rupture or thrombosis of the arteries around the sac, it may interfere with the anastomotic circulation, and cause gangrene; and it may rupture the sac. It is ill-adapted for patients with disease of the heart or internal aneurysm. It does not lessen the prospect of cure by subsequent ligature. (e) Temporary ligature.—This is really a form of compression, for it differs from all other forms of ligature in not aiming at a permanent occlusion of the artery operated on. It may be employed in the form of acupressure, a long stout curved needle being passed well beneath both artery and vein, and a pad fastened over the artery by thread tied round the ends of the needle. A much better plan is to expose the artery in the usual way for ligature, pass a wire ligature beneath it, and bring the ends of the wire out through the skin on each side of the wound, about an inch ajpart. A piece of cork can then be placed over the artery, and the ends of the wire twisted over it sufficiently arrest, the flow of blood through it. Other forms of ligature may be used. These methods are perhaps ingenious, but they have nothing else to commend them. They art attended with a certain risk of embolism from a clot forming above the ligature and being afterwards carried on, they may cause per- manent occlusion of the artery from the contusion of its walls, and they are attended with the risks comnion to all cutting operations. An aseptic ligature, properly applied, is distinctly to be preferred. 2. Treatment toy ligature. The proximal ligature cures by causing a permanent occlusion in the artery on the cardiac side of the aneurysm, and such a diminu- tion of the tension in the sac, and slowing of the flow through it, that clotting occurs, and eventually spreads into and permanently blocks the artery. The ligature may be applied quite close to the sac, as was first done by Anel, in 1710, for a traumatic aneurysm of the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow (Fig. 178, a) ; or it may be done at a distance above the aneurysm, as was first done by Hunter in 1785, who tied the femoral artery (and vein) m the middle of the thigh for a popliteal aneurysm (Fig. 178, b). Since Fig. 178.—Ligature of Arteries for Aueurysm. A, Anel’s operacion ; B, Hunter's operation. tight to impede, but not to