181 POST-MORTEM APPEARANCES. pericardium was affected in 36-5 per cent., and the myocardium in 26-8. In pyaemia due to other causes the proportion was only 6 5 per cent, for the pericardium, and 2 per cent, for the myocardium. Mr. Stephen Paget says that in eighteen cases of acute necrosis, ten had abscess of the heart, and eleven abscess or infarction of the kidney Out of one hundred and forty cases of pyaemia after amputation, one had abscess of the heart, and pne abscess of the kidney. Mr. Paget has also shown that parotitis is common after iniuries to the abdomen and pelvis, and is often pyaemic in origin. It is an observation as old as Hippocrates that after injuries of the cranium and its venous sinuses pyaemic abscesses are formed in the liver. Out of two hundred and seventeen cases ot pyaemia after injuries involving the medulla of bone, fifty-six had abscess of the liver and twenty-eight had abscess of the spleen. In sixty- seven cases of pyaemia after injury of the soft parts, four had abscess of the liver and'three had abscess of the spleen. Dr. Wilks believes that the salivary glands are especially affected in the pyemia which follows typhoid fever, and the joints in that which follows scarlet fever. When pyaemia follows septic phlebitis of the portal veins, the pyaemic abscesses are in the liver. 6. The post-mortem appearanees.—The body is emaciated and the skin of a jaundice hue. Rigor mortis is slight; bed-sores are often present. A septic focus such as has been described will be found, with the neighbouring veins in a state of septic thrombosis. The lymphatics may be acutely inflamed, and the lymphatic glands swollen or suppurating. Occasionally the seat of infection is hard to find, but its absence cannot be assumed unless every part of the body has been examined, especially the ear, alimentary canal, and genito-urinary system. The blood is dark, thin, and watery, with little tendency to clot, and prone to decompose. Its red cor- puscles are diminished and the white increased (leucocytosis—Birsch- Hirschfeld). The valves of the heart, especially those of the left side, may be inflamed and ulcerated. The inflammation may affect a large ex- tent of the endocardium. The serous cavities may contain serous, blood-stained, purulent or foetid fluid, and the surface of the heart, lungs, or abdominal viscera may be covered with lymph. On mobile organs like the lungs or heart this is often rough. Cerebral or spinal meningitis may be found. The viscera are usually engorged with dark blood, especially the spleen, kidneys, and lungs. The changes found are as follows :— The lungs are usually engorged with blood, especially towards their bases, and often have areas of broncho-pneumonia. Beneath the pleura a number of small deep-red or opaque white elevations can be seen and felt. Their size is variable, but the largest may have a diameter of an inch. An incision shows that the deep- red patches are wedge-shaped haemorrhagic infarcts. The base of the wedge is towards the surface. They are devoid of air, solid, and sink in water, and look like damson cheese; the expression