COLLES’ FRACTURE. 82i» ligaments, and drive the ulna through the skin (Figs. 264, 265, 266, and 267). This fracture is very common, especially in elderly women; but it occurs at all ages and in both sexes. Almost always the cause is a fall on the hand—in the old merely to the ground, in younger patients from a height. The shock is received upon the palm near the base of the thumb, which point becomes fixed ; the radius, directed downwards, forwards, and more or less inwards, is driven by the momentum of the body on to this point, as a rule; firm resistance is offered; the lower end be- comes fixed; the force acting along the oblique shaft may be resolved into vertical and hori- zontal components; the effect of the vertical component is to crack through the lower end of the bone and to drive the end of the shaft down- wards (towards the ground); the effect of the horizontal component is to drive the shaft for- wards into the lower fragment, and, if this has not been carried completely backwards, the radial and posterior walls of the shaft will crush and penetrate the cancellous tissue of the lower fragment. All this can be readily seen if, sitting squarely, we place the palm on the table in front of us, on one side of the mid-line, and imagine first the effect of a vertical blow on the lower end of the radius, and then that of a violent push of the shaft directly forwards. Slight differences in the direction of the radius—whether it is more or less nearly vertical, whether it inclines more or less inwards—will account for all the differences we have noted in the anatomy of the fracture. As a rule, extension of the wrist in these falls is insufficient to stretch the anterior radio-carpal ligament greatly; but experi- ments on the cadaver and a few cases show that the fracture may be produced by over-extension of the wrist, though sometimes the ligament yields. The dislocation of the lower fragment upon the upper may be maintained either by impaction or by spasm of the radial carpal and thumb extensors. In a very few recorded instances falls on the back of the hand and flexion of the wrist have caused a similar fracture with dis- placement forwards of the lower fragment. Sipns.~T\\QVQ may be no deformity; but when the displacement is maintained the appearance is very characteristic. Seen from the i-adial side, the hand and fingers are more or less flexed, but the outlines about the wiist are irregular; at the flexor fold there is a deepish depression, and above it is a prominence—the lower end of the upper fragment; on the dorsal aspect, opposite the latter, or rather liigher, is a depression duo to displacement back of the lower Fig. 267.—Antero-Poste- rior Section through a Radius from a Case of Colies’ Fracture. Tlie displacement back and rotation (moderate) of the lower fragment are shown; the angle for- wards above the wrist can be estimated and contrasted witli that in Fig. 2GS. (Univer- sity College Museum, No. 213.)