820 INJURIES OF BONES. elbow, and its condition should be ascertained after reducing all such injuries. Detachment of the internal epicondyle always opens the elbow joint, and, the internal lateral ligament being attached to it, permits abnormal abduction of the fore-arm when the elbow is extended so that dislocation occurs under slight violence. The bit of bone is displaced downwards by the superficial flexors, and can be felt; no crepitus, unless it can be replaced; a sharp termination of the internal supra-condyloid line can be felt. IJnion is almost always fibrous, of greater or less length. The idtimate result is generally satisfactory, but to obtain this passive movement has, as a rule, to be kept up for weeks. J. Hutchinson, junr., believes that this is due to pressure on the ulnar nerve with each attempt at flexion after its guardian process has been removed. In more severe cases of neuralgia, paresis or paralysis in the ulnar area, with great rigidity of the joint, the process has several times been found pressing on the nerve, and has been removed with a perfect result. Diag^iiosis of injuries to the elbow.—Early examination to anticipate swelling is most desirable, and an ansesthetic is often necessary. Vv^ith the patient’s hands clasped in the mid-line, the in- jured joint should be carefully surveyed from all sides. If the elbow be projecting unduly backwards, the resemblance to a dislocation backwards of the ulna, or of both bones, is close. In the dislocation, the olecranon by itself forms the point of the elbow, and the projec- tion is therefore sharpei’, both from above down, and from side to side, than when the joint end of the humerus moves back with the fore-arm bones; the triceps is tense and curved, the curve being some- what lower and sharper than in the fracture ; the length from the acromion to epicondyle is normal, from epicondyle to styloid process short. Taking an elbow in each hand, holding them symmetrically, and placing the forefinger on the olecranon, and the thumb and middle finger on the epicondyles (the elbow should always be examined in this way), it is found that the distances between the olecranon and both epicondyles are much increased in the dislocation, .but are normal in the fracture j the projection in front is smooth, and presents the irregularities of the lower end of the humerus ] the fingers can be pressed into the sigmoid notch of the ulna, and the pit in the head of the radius ; movement is limited in the d^- location—extension is incomplete, and flexion cannot^ be carried to 90°—it is abnormally free in the fracture; reduction is more or less difficult, but Avhen accomplished, the deformity does not easily recur; there is no crepitus. Systematic attention^ to these points when they can be recognised will enable us to distinguish between dislocation backwards of both bones and the supra-con- dyloid fracture, T-fracture, and separation of the epiphysis, with the ordinary displacement. If the displacement is extraordinary, the resemblance to a dislocation is lost; and none exists m the other cases above described. rreatmcut of fiaclmes of llie lower end of lUc iHiiiieriis.—In the more severe simple injuries tliere is otten so