INTBA-VRBITAL ANEURYSM. 649 determined ; optic neuritis has been especially observed in connection with aneurysm of the internal carotid artery. In some cases a bruit is audible to the patient, or to the observer, and the place of greatest intensity, and the effects upon the bruit, of compression of the carotid artery in tlie neck may enable the surgeon to determine on which series of vessels the aneurysm is placed; aneurysm of the basilar artery has been known to give a bruit audible just behind the mastoid process; the bruit of an aneurysm of the internal carotid is arrested by compression of the vessel in the neck. In some cases of spontaneous aneurysm the patient gives a liistory of a sudden pain, or a sense as of something bursting in his head at the outset of the disease. Treatment.—If the aneurysm be diagnosed, and cannot be exactly localised, the only treatment that can be pursued is consti- tutional—the avoidance of all causes of increased arterial tension, and, especially in cases of syphilis, large doses of iodide of potassium. If the aneurysm be known to be on the internal carotid or middle cerebral artery, the internal carotid artery should be Ligatured in the neck. For an aneurysm of the basilar artery, one or both vertebral arteries might be tied. Intra-orbital aneurysm.—Pulsating exophthalmos is probably a better name for the series of cases we are now to consider, for they have been grouped together on account of their clinical resemblance, and noo their pathological identity. The symptoms of these cases are more or less marked proptosis, with swelling of the eyelids, congestion and oedema of the conjunctiva, and a well-marked pulsation in the orbit. Often there is a distinct thrill to be felt, particularly near the inner canthus, and on listening over the brow or temple a loud musical or whizzing bruit is audible; the bruit is heard also by the patient. There may be ocular paralysis, dilated pupil, steamy cornea, and opacity of the media, causing almost entire blindness; if the fundus can be seen, the retinal veins are noticed to be full and often pulsating, and the outline of tlie disc is blurred. Patliolog'y.—The conditions that have been shown by carefxil dissection to give rise to these symptoms are varied. They include aneurysm of the ophthalmic artery Avithin or behind the orbit, rupture of a carotid aneurysm into the cavernous sinus, aneurysmal varix—the carotid arteiy communicating Avith the cavernous sinus— dilatation of the carotid artery in the petrous bone, thrombosis of the cavernous sinus, and compression of the ophthalmic vein by inflammatory products. It is believed that cirsoid aneurysm may occur in the orbit as a congenital affection. Many of the cases are traumatic in origin, arising from severe injuries to the head causing fracture about the cavernous sinus, or from punctured Avounds of the orbit. In the idiopathic cases a sudden sense of something bursting or giving way behind the eyeball may usher in the .symptoms. Course^ and diagnosis.—The rapidity with which the