592 ANEURYSM. r verse of the sac of the aneurysm. We therefore arrive at the lollowing classification of spontaneous aneurysms (Fig. 1G7): 1. Fusiform aneurysm. ° '' ’ 2. Sacculated aneurysm | (?) cu'cum scribed. .. ( (^) diffused; leaking; ruptured, 3. Dissecting aneurysm. 4. Mixed aneurysm. A fusilbrm aaiciirysm is one formed by the dilatation of the entile circumference of an artery, and it is a dilatation in length as well as breadth ; but, above all, its walls (or sac) are formed of all the coats of the arteiy. A saccui»tcd ancm-ysiii is formed by the yielding of a part only of the circumference of a vessel; and its sac, except in the earliest stage of a few cases, consists at most of part of the wall of the arter)' only. So long as the tumour is closed in by a continuous sac, it is called a circumscribed aneurysm. When the sac is incomplete, it is called a diffused aneurysm or a ruptured aneurysm, and this distinction is one of vital importance. Other terms have been used in the classification of aneurysms, especially “true” and “false.” A “true” aneurysm’is one in which the sac is formed by all the coats of an arteiy. This is always the case in fusiform aneurysm, but in sacculated aneurysm— to which the term has been generally applied—such a condition is only met with in the early stages of the development of some aneuiysms, and when a comparatively large area of the arterial wall has yielded to the pressure of the blood. This condition is incapable of recognition by any clinical features of the aneurysm. Any aneu- rysm in the sac of which all three coats of the artery are not found has been called “ false.” These terms have, however, been also used in another sense, for the term “true” has been used to denote an aneurysm in which any part of the coats of the artery can be demonstrated in the whole sac of the aneurysm; and “false” has been used to denote that condition in which a part, at least, of the sac consists wholly of tissues other than the arterial wall. These terms should be given up, for not only have they been employed in different senses, but they connote a difference that cannot be appre- ciated clinically and that is of no therapeutic importance. Either form of aneurysm, whatever the nature of its sac, is a veritable aneurysm, and to separate off any group and call it “false” is an incorrect and unfortunate use of language. A dissectiHg aneurysm is one in which the blood is contained in a space between the coats of the artery. Such a diverticulum may remain as a blind pouch, or it may open into the vessel low'er down, or burst through its outer coats, and become a “ ruptured or diffused aneurysm.” A mixetl aneurysin.—It sometimes happens that the entire circumference of an artery dilates into a fusiform aneurysm, and that at one part of the circumference a sacculated aneurysm is also formed by a localised yielding of weakened tissues. In such cases the disease must be called a mixed aneurysm. It is important to denote such