71 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. How long is the trouble going on 1 And does it show any signs of iinprovenTent 1 These are difficult questions to answer ; but we may take it that if an acute inflammation lasts for more than three or four days, it will almost certainly go on to suppuration : if, on the other hand, it is noticed after three or four days that the skin, instead of being tense and shiny as the result of the great dis- tension from the exudation, becomes wrinkled, the inflammation is subsiding, and will probably do so without the occurrence of suj> puration. Chronic inflammation—So far I have been speaking of acute inflammation, but we have also to consider another inflammatory process which is much more difficult to describe and understand namely, chronic inflammation. By this, we mean an inflammation which runs its course slowly, and which is not accompanied by any severe local or constitutional symptoms. Causes.—The causes of chronic inflammation differ from those of acute, more especially in the fact that it is not due to the ordinary pyogenic organisms, but is most commonly the result of some other morbid process which is going on in the tissues. At the same time, the presence of a foreign body in the part, such as a bullet, or a piece of dead bone, etc., may keep up this condition of chronic inflammation for an indefinite time. The retention of pus after the opening of an abscess—-where the opening has been too small—will also keep up a condition of chronic inflammation in the surrounding tissues. Similarly, the obstruction to a duct of a secreting gland, such as a salivary gland, will set up chronic inflammation in the substance of the gland from the pressure of the retained secretion. Again, chronic inflammation is kept up by certain conditions of the blood, as in rheumatism, or by deposits from the blood, as in gout. By far the most common cause of chronic inflammation is, however, the pre- sence of an infective disease, more especially tubercle or syphilis. The greater part of the swelling which occui’s in tuberculous diseases is due to chronic inflammation of the tissues surrounding the tubercular deposit, and not to the tubercular deposit itself; and herein lies the difficulty in understanding or describing chronic inflammation by itself as apart from the disease with wliich it is associated. Pi ■ocesses.—The processes which go on in chronic inflammation are in their essence the same as those which occur in acute inflammation, except that they progress very much more slowly, and extend over a longer period. These processes consist in the gradual destruction of the tissue in which the inflammation is occurring, and its replacement hy young connective tissue. In chronic inflammation one does not meet with typical granulation tissue, the multiplication of the cells goes on very slowly and they very quickly undergo organisation (Fig. 13), and the ultimate result of chronic inflammation is an increase in the connective tissue of the part which is the seat of the inflamma- tion, leading in the first instance to great thickening of the part (for example, in chronic inflammation of bone), and subsequently, in