iNJunims OP POISES. «34 Signs.—The diagnosis of fractures not breaking tlie pelvic ring is made by attention to the nature of the accident, the seats of injury, of pain and tenderness, and by careful examination from outside, from the rectum and vagina. Passive movements of the lower limb may help. As a rule, deformity, mobility, and crepitus, one or all, can be obtained. A dislocation of the femur easily reducible and easily recurring, characterises fractures of the ace- tabular edge. In fractures breaking the pelvic ring there is often great shock; if the patient has attempted to bear weight on the limb of the injured side, he has found it impossible: there is a sense of loss of support, and the limb is helpless and rotates out fully, because the muscles have lost their point d’appui. Deformity is not often pre- sent, other than swelling from extravasation. More or less of the hip-bone, the sacrum, or the pubes, may be obviously displaced, and the limb in the first case may appear shortened or otherwise deformed. In the veiy rare cases in which' the head of the femur is driven into the pelvis, the trochanter is depressed, the Imb is slightly shortened, and a swelling is felt per rectum. Crepitus is often obtained during unavoidable lifting of the patient; it should be sought for only in the gentlest way, seeing the danger with which displacement of fragments threatens the urethra. Abnormal mobility will be tested at the same time by direct pressure on the pubes, by directly pressing the ilia towards one another or away from each other by the thumbs on the anterior spines. If in this examination pain be referred constantly to a certain region ^ not pressed upon, fracture may be inferred. Localised extravasations, especially in the perineum when this part has not been struck, are of the highest value. If left in doubt, treat as if a fracture were present, and watch for the disappearance of symptoms. The urethra must always be examined with a scrupulously cleaned catheter, the orifice of the urethra also being disinfected before the instrument is introduced. There may be blood dripping from the meatus, or bloody urine may have been passed, or there may be retention of some standing ] in cases seen late, perhaps even sio'ns of cellulitis from micturition into the cellular tissue round the urethra. The catheter may fail to enter the bladder, its point turning constantly into the perineum, or it may enter after more or less difficulty—the urethra is completely or partially torn across. Or it may enter easily and draw off urine, more or less blood-stained (sometimes very slightly) in small quantity; on moving the catheter about a further, perhaps considerable, flow may occur, the end ot the instrument having passed through the hole into the peritoneum which contains the urine—a rare piece of good luck; on running in a known quantity of warm saline solution no bladder tumour forms and only part of the fluid returns ; or a suprapubic tumour forms, but does not disappear when the bladder is _ emptied--a rupture on the non-peritoneal surface exists. Before using the latter method o examination the surgeon should acquaint himself accurately with