iJlO LISEASE8 OF BONES. (Fig. 350). The free border of the nail is turned upwards, and the soft parts over the bony growth are frequently ulcerated from friction ^vith the boot. It vaiies in size, but is scarcely ever allowed to assume large proportions, on account of the pain and inconvenience it causes in walking. It is very easily removed by a sharp spoon or gouge, but care should be taken that all the tissue covering it is also removed. It is otherwise liable to return, probably on account of some portion of the cartilaginous cap being left in situ. Fibromata of bone are very rare except in relation to tlie jaws and base of skull. In the latter position they have been de- scribed as one form of naso-pharyngeal polyp. In other positions fibromata of bone are probably intermuscular or parosteal tumours which have only secondarily become attached to bone. They are recognised by their exceedingly slow rate of growth. The uniform consistence and smooth surface of such a tumour, coupled with the absence of infiltration and freedom from pain, would be addi- tional arguments in favour of a fibroma. But it must be remembered that some of the more chronic parosteal sarcomata present these features, and if treated in the way in which fibromata are ordinarily treated elsewhere, by removal from the tissues in which they grow, would be almost certain to show their malignancy by an eventual recurrence. If, therefore, a tumour apparently of this nature be removed from bone, it is essential that a microscopical examination be made before allowing the patient to imagine that he is safe without amputation of the limb. ParostGal lipoma.—For cases of this extremely rare variety of growth attached to bone, the reader is referred to Bland Sutton’s work on “Tumours, Innocent and Malignant,” 1893, where a series of records in the Transactions of the Pathological Society are alluded to. A deeply-seated fatty tumour is always difficult of diagnosis; and if, further, it be beneath the deep fascia and fixed to bone, it may be impossible to assert its nature without ex- ploration. {See also page 451.) Chondroma of b0HG.—Some of the cartilaginous outgrowths are mei’e overgrowths of normal cartilage, aiid are called ecchon- clroses (page 454). These are especially common in the costal cartilage of youn"- women, and require no treatment. They are also found on the laryngeal cartilages, and may give rise to dangerous symptoms when they project on the inner surface of the larynx. Along the margins of the articular cartUages they are seen as small rounded nodules, or “lip growths,” in the osteo-arthritis of mid- life. At the base of the triangular cartilage of the nose they have of late received more attention than they deserve, for unless they produce obstruction they can do iio possible harm. The true chondroma of bone arises in the medullary cavity, close to the epiphysial end of a long bone, or between the walls and the periosteum It is an innocent tumour, and does not return after complete removal. {Sec page 453.) With our present knowledge or