FEACTUBES OF TEE FEMUR. 839 one of much importance j for inti a- articular fractures rarely unite by bone, while those of the base of the neck and trochanter generally do so. Causes. — Fractures of the neck ai’e caused either by direct violence to the hip, especially heavy falls, or by indirect violence, sometimes very slight, such as the jGrk experienced from a stumble, from missing a step or trip- ping over something. In a few cases violent ovei’-extension of the hip thi’ow- ing heavy strain on the ilio-femoral ligament has resulted in a fracture, as if the ligament had torn the neck fi’orn the shaft. Signs.—In unimpacted fractures of the neck, shock, pain, and swelling about the hip may be slight or marked, according as the cause of the injury has been slight and indirect or severe and direct violence. In the former case a little patch of bruising often appears after three or four days in Scarpa’s .space. The limb Lies helpless and com- Fig. 276.—A left Femur seen from behind, showing a recent extra- capsular Fracture. This injury follows the lines shown with sur- prising constancy; to complete tliem, the anterior limb of the V below the small trochanter must be carried up along the capsular line to the cleft shown between the neck and the upper end of the shaft. This specimen was from a man of 67 who fell in alighting from a 'bus ; there were only half an inch shortening and slight eversion. Sudden death occurred two days later with dyspncea, but no embolus was found. (Charing Cross Mu- seum, No. 379.) Fig. 277.—The posterior half of a left Femur, showing union after an impacted intra-capsu- lar Fracture, the lines of which are clear. The neck has been driven almost straight into the head, producing depression of the trochanter, slight shortening, ami perhaps slight eversion. (Charing Cross IHuseum, No. 378.) ’ p 1 e t e 1 y e V erted, though ac- cidental in- version may be met with; unless swol- len by haemorrhage, the trochanteric region is flattened : a hollow may exist instead of the trochanteric prominence, and even where haemorrhage obliterates this sign, depression of the trochanter will be made out if the bone can be felt and the two hips compared. The fascia lata on the injured side is lax owing to shortening, and can be pressed in above the trochanter. The trochanter is farther back than normal, corre- sponding to the eversion (measured by Bryant’s triangle, page 751). The limb is shortened from ^ in. to 2 or even 3 ins. and the trochanter is proportionately (■aised (Bryant’s triangle). Shortening is