898 DISEASES OF BONES. shell in advanced cases, and in such circumstances may be very brittle, and break with the slightest degree of violence. Of general causes, senile degeneration is the most common, but it has been shown by Professor Humphry that the bones of aged people after fracture unite as readily as those of the young. Long confinement to bed from any cause undoubtedly predis- poses to atrophy, and possibly in part accounts for the occasional occurrence of fracture of the opposite thigh-bone on getting up after prolonged rest in bed from a pi-evious fracture of the femur. The cachexia of malignant disease is also thought to induce atrophy of bone, from malnutrition. Certainly such bones break easily without the secondary deposit of new growth. It has long been a question of speculation whether the bones of the insane are also more brittle than those in health. They often show signs of atrophy, but whether this is peculiar to the insane or what might be seen in those who lead a very inactive life from other causes it is diflicult to say. As regards their spontaneous fracture or fracture from slight causes, there would generally be a little difficulty in accepting the evidence of an attendant, whose interest it may be to underrate the force he has been induced to use. Other general causes there must be of which little or nothing is known. For example: a girl of fourteen is recorded by Stanley as a case of fragilitas ossium, and is said to have had thirty-one fractures, all of which readily united. Local causes for atrophy of bone are of practical importance to the surgeon, as the knowledge will lead him to deal gently with bones when such a condition may be suspected to exist. During the disuse of a limb from disease, such as disease of the knee- joint or a badly-united fracture in which weight cannot be borne on the limb, the bones undoubtedly atrophy and become very brittle, so that when the time comes to employ passive movement of the joint the femur is liable to fracture. Infantile paralysis may also be cited as another cause for these local changes. It is well to bear in mind that, in all these cases of atrophy of bone, union takes place as readily after fracture as under more healthy circumstances. {See also page 726.) OSTEOMALACIA. This is a disease of the fully-formed adult bones in which bending or fracture of one or more parts of the osseous framework of the body is liable to occur with very great deformity. As i-egards its actual causation, very little is known. It is more common in females than males, in the proportion of about ten to one; and in females it would appear that pregnancy must be the most important exciting cause, for a very large proportion are shown to be first affected during this period. The situation of the disease is also remarkable, for in those connected with pregnancy, the pelvis and lower part of the spine were the first to give any indication of the disease. The great majority of the cases analysed by Durham, in Guy’s Hospital