318 8URGI0AL DISEASES DUE TO MICBOBIO INFEGTIOK processes. Becween the clubs, slender wavy or spiral filaments, sparse or in groups, project into the surrounding tissue (Fig. 56). In the smallest young grey nodules, clubs may be sparse or absent; with increased age the clubs increase, while the filaments decrease in amount. The whole organism so arranged may be infiltrated with small-celled growth, especially the centre, and the whole may calcify, still retaining, however, the general outline of the original structure. The youngest actinomycetes are found in the discharge and breaking- do wn tissue only; they may be too small for naked-eye recognition, and sometimes the discharge may contain more mycelial threads than completely developed organisms. Branched and single threads have been observed by Bostrbm within cells, which later perish, and the contents are set free—a possible mode of extension of the local process. The actinomyces are often very sparsely distributed, especially in cases in which cicatrisation is a marked feature. (See page 49.) Morbid, anatomy.—The entrance of the actinomyces is followed by local necrosis of the tissue in which it is embedded, and the develop- ment of a surrounding area of small-celled infiltration, the amount of which varies with the power of resistance of the individual affected and the activity of growth of the organism. If resistance be strong, considerable inflammation is set up, the tissues around undergo cell multiplication, granulation tissue is developed, and well-marked con- nective tissue at the periphery. In these cases the disease spreads slowly, and the tendency is to localisation. If, on the other liand, resistance be defective, the small-celled infiltration remains the main feature, and the process spreads rapidly by destruction of the surrounding tissues. Attention has been drawn by Bostrom to the strong resemblance exhibited by these two varieties of the process with those observed in chronic and acute tuberculosis. The pro- cess observed at a single centre is repeated indefinitely by the development of fresh ones in du-ect continuity; and thus in the chronic cases large areas of doughy granulation tissue, bounded by dense scar tissue in the older parts, are formed. Deposits invade tissues of the most varied character, infiltrating muscles, fascim, and organs in continuity, eroding and infiltrating bones, more or less obbterating serous cavities, such as the pleura, peritoneum, or joints. Blood-vessels, nerves, and tubes, such as the gullet, become infiltrated, and are rigidly walled in. The secreting tissue in the affected area of organs is destroyed without taking active part in the process, which in its extension sometimes encloses small islands of the original organ more or less unchanged. The bones are eroded, become rough and discoloured, and the periosteum is thickened, the condition being one of superficial actinomycotic caries. In chronic cases abundant osteophytic fonnation takes place, Avhile in acute cases this may be absent, the process being merely rarefying and destructive. The joints may become invaded and extensive disorganisation follows. Softening sooner or later occurs from the fatty degenei'ation,