19 T0X1NJ<JS. almost entirely in connection with those which ai’e associated with sur- gical diseases. That eMeedingly soluble poisons are formed by these organisms is evident from the fact that in the cases where the lesions are strictly localised the constitutional disturbances may be strikingly marked, especially in those conditions with which the surgeon has to deal, or which through usage come specially under his notice; thus malignant or septic oedema, symptomatic anthrax, tetanus and diphtheria, are all characterised by this peculiarity, and although the surgeon is called upon to treat the local lesions in order, if possible, to cut out the manufactory of these poisons, the rate of absorption of the formed poisons is so great that the most profound toxic symptoms may continue up to the death of the patient, even after the removal of the local lesion or after the destruction of the bacteria in this lesion. On the other hand, in the septicaemias (accepting this term in the sense in which we have already defined it) the local lesion may be of the most trifling nature ; it has simply served as the point of entrance of organisms, which, enabled to multiply in the blood, and especially in the internal organs, are capable of setting up serious constitutional disturbances similar, in many respects, to those that follow the absorption of poison from the local lesions. Such diseases are characterised at some period or other (usually a short time before the death of the patient) by the presence of micro-organisms in the blood, as, for example, in cases of anthrax, but especially in that group of diseases known as the hsemorrhagic septicsemias, which in different animals are associated with bacteria bearing a strong family likeness. For example, we have the bacillus of rabbit septicaemia, of fowl-cholera, of the septicaemia of deei’, of mouse septicaemia (Plate II. Fig. 11), of erysipelas in pigs, and the septicaemias set up by the Pneumococcus or Micrococcus lanceolatus. Most of the earlier attempts to separate the poisonous products from cultures grown in special proteid media (in which only many of these organisms can produce their poisonous products), were directed to obtaining substances corresponding to the vegetable poisonous alkaloids, which could be crystallised out by means of special reagents. Panum’s sepsines and Selmi’s ptomaines were looked upon as mixtures of such ’crystallisable substances. Then Brieger separated from tetanus products distinct substances, one of which he named tetanin, another tetano-toxine, another spasmo-toxine, and a fourth a basic substance (nameless), which when injected was found to bring about a rise of tlie temperature of the animal into which it was injected. These alkaloids, poisonous in a certain degree, are, how- ever, incapable of producing the extraordinary results observed in the diseases with which they are associated, and it was soon recognised ajkaloids are probably the result of the breaking-down of inore complicated and certainly of more virulent substances : especially as these poisonous alkaloids, in turn, under the influence of oxidation, lose much of their virnlence. It was then maturally suggested that the actual poisonous agent might be mixed with or entangled amongst