462 TUMOURS. tissue in the sheaths of the enlarged trunks of a plexiform neuroma bears the sanie relation to the nerve that a glioma bears to the brain and this species might not inaptly be called “glioma of a nerve.” The peculiar relationship between multiple neuromata and the two vai-ieties of molluscum librosum—the nodular and the pendulous has been referred to in the section on fibromata (page 458). This much is clear, the neuromata constitute a mixed and, in a sen.se, a bastard genus; nevertheless, it is necessary to retain the class for a time at least. 9. Angeiomata. 10. Lymphangeiomata. Angeiomata are tumours composed of an abnormal formation of blood-vessels. This genus contains three species :—(1) Simple nsevus j (2) cavernous nmvus ; (3) plexiform angeioma. The angeiomata are considered in the article devoted to the Diseases op Blood-vessels (Art. XXIV. page 517), and lymphan- geiomata in Art. XXVI., on Diseases and Injuries of Lymphatics (pages 663 and 679). 11. Myomata. Myomata are tumours composed of unstriped muscle-fibre. The genus contains one species—myoma. They occur in the uterus : occa- sionally they are found in connection with the oesophagus, stomach, small intestine, bladder, and prostate more rarely they grow in connection with the dartos tissue of the scrotum and the subcutaneous tissue of the scalp. Myomata sometimes arise in the broad ligament of the uterus, the ovary, and the ovarian ligament, and very rarely from the Fallopian tube. Myomata occur as encapsuled tumours composed of long fusiform cells, with a rod-like nucleus. The bundles of muscle-fibres are often interwoven in such a manner that the cut surface presents a characteristic whorled appearance. It is sometimes very difficult to distinguish between a myoma, a fibroma, and a spindle-celled sarcoma; for instance, uterine myomata were formerly called “uterine fibroids,” and spindle- celled sarcomata “ recurrent fibroids ”; but increased accuracy in histological methods has in a very large measure served to dissipate this confusion. It is important in doubtful cases to remember that myomata only arise from pre-existing unstriped muscle-fibre. Spindle-celled sarcomata are rare in situations favourable to myomata. Tumours composed of unstriped muscle very frequently occur in the uterus, and are the commonest tumours to which women are liable. The uterus consists almost entirely of unstriped muscle, and the larger part of the organ is covered externally by peri- toneum : where this membrane is in relation with the uterus, its subserous layer (which in many parts of the abdomen consists of fat-containing connective tissue) is here replaced by a layer of un- striped muscle-fibre, which is directly continuous with the muscle-