DISEASES OF BONES. 880 l)fi increased. The inflammatory exudation takes place beneatli tlie periosteum, and slowly develops into new bone, which may be arranged in layers parallel to the surface or in nodulated masses. The former eventually becomes sclerotic, as in condensing osteitis. AVhen the latter assume definite size and outline, they are some- times called osteophytes, flhis condition is seen round old rheumatic joints, or in the disease generally known as osteo-arthritis. Beneath a chronic ulcer of the leg, a thick layer of bone (Fig. 333) may be produced upon the surface of the tibia. This would appear to aidse from simple irritation; but at the same time it is more common in syphilitic subjects and in a bone that is already affected with a general osteosclerosis. OSTEOMYELITIS. Osteomyelitis is an inflammation of the medullary canal and of the tissue lining the cancellous parts of bone. It may be divided into acute and chronic osteomyelitis, of which the former has two veiy distinct varieties. 1. Simple acute osteomyelitis occurs most frequently after some definite injury, such as a fracture (simple or compound), gunshot wounds, and after amputation. It may also take part in a general osteitis, as previously described. The inflammatory ex- udation in the tissue of the medullary canal may undergo the same changes as in other parts: namely, resolution, suppuration, and organisation. In this simple variety of osteo- myelitis the inflammation is local and does not spi’ead, and is, therefore, probably not due to any infective organism. For example : in simple fracture it forms the internal callus, which is again re-absorbed. In an amputa- tion a simple osteomyelitis closes the medul- lary canal, and in doing so may cause a very small and limited necrosis. There ai’e no special symptoms or treatment to detail apart from that of the particular injury in which it occurs. 2. Acute diffuse or infective osteomyelitis is a most serious and often fatal disease. As an accompaniment of acute diffuse perio- stitis or acute necrosis, it has already been described. It now remains for us to mention those cases in which the inflammation arises in the medullary canal, apart from the more general diffuse osteitis previously described. Fig. 333. — Osteoplastic Periostitis of a Tibia. An oval eminence of new bone, with a sharply de- fined border, has fonned beneath a chronic ulcer of the leg. The specimen ■also shows chronic peri- ostitis on other parts of its surface. (St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum, No. 398.)