TUBERCULOSIS. 358 the extremities appear swollen, and the skin itself feels often chilled and clammy. These children are very liable to chilblains. They are the common subjects of glandular swellings, of enlarged tonsils, of post-nasal growths, of phlyctenular ophthalmia, of lupus, and of muco-purulent discharges from the nose, ears, or vagina. They are often attacked by lupus and are often the subjects of bone and joint disease. They seem prone, indeed, to the surgical forms of tuberculosis, and are not so commonly the subjects of phthisis, meningitis, or peritonitis. This is the type of tuberoulous individual whose peculiarities are probably acgwirecf. To this type belongs “parochial struma” and the tuberculous affections common in the slums of great cities. Age .—Tuberculous disorders may appear at any age, but they distinctly affect certain periods of life. Speaking especially of the surgical forms of tuberculosis, it is to be observed that the largest number of cases belong to the ages between five and fifteen. Another period of frequency would appear to be between twenty and twenty-five, and another period a little after thirty. The term “ senile scrofula ” or “ senile tuberculosis ” is applied to instances in which tuberculous diseases make their appearance in old people. Such instances are rare. In sixteen cases reported by Bourdelais, five patients were between sixty and seventy, seven were between seventy and eighty, two were over eighty, and the remaining two were under sixty. Senile tuberculosis is as common in females as in males. In some instances there is a history of a tuberculous afi'ection in early life, but as a rule the disease is primary, and represents the first appearance of tubercle. The diseases to which the subjects of senile tuberculosis are liable are identical with those met with in earlier life. The commonest manifestation is bone disease, which is often about the wrist. In other instances thei-e have been joint disease, lupus, tuberculous ulcers, or glandular enlargements. Environment.—In very general terms, it may be said that tuberculous affections are encouraged in those who live in closely- confined districts, and whose dwellings are dark, damp, ill-ventilated, and removed from a free access of fresh air. It would appear, also, that a district lying high and dry and bare has a more favourable influence than has a low-lying district, where the atmosphere is laden with moisture, and where vegetation is luxuriant, or at least plentiful. Tuberculosis and scrofula.—For some centuries a great war of words was waged over the relations of tubercle and scrofula. The term “struma” or “scrofula” was derived from the common appear- ance presented by enlarged glands in the neck, and as years advanced the expression was loosely associated with other vaguer conditions of mere ill-health. The diseases which were usually termed scrofulous were the following, and it will be observed that they simply embrace the common external manifestations of tuberculosis:—phlyctenular