73 CHEONIC INFLAMMATION. increased vascularity of the part may be shown by the presence beneath the skin of enlarged veins. Treatnieiit.—The continuance of chronic inflammation being entirely dependent on the presence of the irritating cause, the first essential in the treatment is to ascertain what the cause is, and to get rid of it if possible. Where the inflammation is due to a foreign body, such as a bullet or a piece of dead bone, naturally the treatment is to open up the part and to remove the oflfending agent. Where the inflammation depends on some constitutional condition, such as rheumatism or gout, the removal of the cause must be at- tempted by means of suitable constitutional remedies. Where, how- ever, the essence of the trouble is some local infective disease, such as tubercle, the question of the i-emoval of the cause must depend upon various cir- cumstances, which will be discussed in speaking of these aflections in differ- ent situations. In cases where the cause cannot be ascertained, or can- not be removed, various methods of treatment may nevertheless be em- ployed, with the view of diminishing or even arresting the inflammatory process, and the first and most essential of all the methods is to place the part completely at resi. This rest should be in bed, especially if the chronic inflammation affects the lower part of the trunk or the lower extremities, and the affected part should, as far as possible, be placed at a higher level than the heart. In cases where the chronic inflammation aflects the upper extremities, it is not so essential to place the patient in bed, provided sufficient rest is obtained by suitable forms of retentive apparatus. The patient may in that case be allowed to go about, and thus obtain the benefit of fre.sh air and exercise, which may be of great value in getting rid of the cause of the disease. The second great principle in the treatment of chronic inflamma- tion is the employment of counter-irritants, of which we have a considerable variety. The action of these counter-irritants is by no means clear. The most generally received theory is that, on the one hand, by causing congestion and inflammation of the skin, the}"- lead reflexly to diminution in the vascularity of the inflamed part; and on the other hand, by the irritation of the terminal ends of the nerves in the skin, they in some way or other alter the nervous balance, and lead to some salutary change in the innervation of tho Fig-. 14-.—Cirrho.sis of the Liver, showing Diminution in Size ; and Dex)iessions resulting from the Contraction of the Fibrous Tissue formed in the course of Chronic Inflam- mation.