lOSl HW JOINT DISEASE. Diag-uosis in flic early stages.—We must now endeavour to study each of these forms of disease separately, in such a way as to be able, if possible, to diagnose them one from the other. T\iq femoral variety of tuberculous hip disease in the child is first evident to the naked eye in the form of a small focus of inflammatory deposit, situated usually in one or other part of the plane of growing tissue between the neck of the femur and the epiphysis of the head. Sometimes this focus is at the periphery of the plane (Fig. 441), but more usually it is towards the centre. In the middle of this inflammatory patch, as we see it, fatty degeneration has usually advanced to a considerable deffree, so that a caseous abscess exists to a greater or less extent. Now, it de- pends upon the situation of this centre of disease whether the joint will be early infected as a whole or not. If the caseous mass lie towards the peri- phery of the bone and spread out- wards, it very soon involves the periosteum, and on perforating this the tuberculous material gains access to the synovial sac, and the whole inner surface of the cavity is involved in the morbid process. Again, if the caseous focus lie directly in the centre, and grow in all directions evenly, it may eventually separate the head com- pletely from the neck, and the former, lying loose in the joint, cut off from its vascular supply through the neck, plays the part of a sequestrum in a generally inflamed joint, which soon becomes hopelessly disorganised. But when there is a central focus this is not in- variably the course of the di.sease. Sometimes it heals up under appropriate treatment, and the caseous material cretifies or be- comes absorbed. But even when the process advances in extent, it does not always do so towards the periphery, but may gradually move outwards down the centre of the neck towards the trochanter, and finally burst through the periosteum somewhere outside the attachment of the capsule. If an abscess be formed in such a case it is clearly extra-articular, and all the time the move- ments of the joint are intact. Ihese forms of femoral disease must be carefully .studied, and at all times kept in mind if we are to avoid unnecessary surgical interference with this joint, and to give anything like an accurate prognosis. The diagnosis between these varieties is by no means easy, but we may arrive very near the truth in many cases by observing the following points :-Tlie mode of onset is the first Fig. 4il.—Tuberculous Disease com- meucing in the Head of the Femur at the E piphisial hue (University College Museum).