436 OONOBBH(EA. of pain and irritation disappear, and too often the patient, on this account, neglects treatment, thus allowing his gonorrhcea to pass into a gleet, the duration of which is almost indefinite. The numerous glands opening into the urethra, especially in the fossa navicularis and the bulbous portion, are very prone to harbour the germs, and their secretion contributes to form the flakes and shreds which settle from the urine on standing and which are a most characteristic feature of gleet. Naturally, these are most evident when a con- siderable interval of time has elapsed since the urethra was washed out by the passage of urine—i.e. on rising in the morning. If a bougie be introduced, the presence of gleet will probably be detected by the mucus or sticky pus which clings to it on withdrawal. Apart from the chronic inflammation of the urethral glands, we have to notice the formation of a “ granular patch ” in the penile or bulbous urethra, a frequent complication, or rather a cause of gleet, which can be guessed at by localised tenderness on the passage of a bougie, but can only be ascertained for certain by a thorough examination with the endoscope. By means of the latter instrument, the mucous membrane at one spot may be seen to be abnormally congested, granular on its surface, and bleeding readily, whilst the thin discharge may be observed to be secreted from the patch itself. ^ The endoscope tube is illuminated with a small electric lamp; its intro- duction may be rendered absolutely painless by a preliminary injection of cocaine solution (2 to 5 per cent.), which is mopped out by pledgets of cotton wool on holders. It is well to use the largest endoscope tube that will readily pass, and considerable practice is required not to mistake the normal congestion of the membranous portion for a granular or inflamed patch. Some authorities condemn the use of the endoscope as favouring needless and meddlesome topical applications, and there is a grave danger in this direction. Nevertheless, in certain cases of gleet the judicious use_ of this instrument renders great service, and may be the only satisfactory method of effecting a cure. Should, for instance, a well-marked granular patch be detected, nitrate of silver solution (5, 10, or 20 grains to the ounce), applied to the patch alone at intervals of a week or fortnight, aided by an astringent injection, may cure a gleet which has lasted six months or a year, within a month or two. More brilliant results than this cannot truthfully be claimed, and it may at once be admitted that some cases of gleet are still the despair of the surgeon and patient. The latter is not infrequently prone to allow the persistence of a slight mucous secretion from his urethra to prey upon his mind, or to get into a morbid habit^ of frequently inspecting the lips of the meatus urinarius, or of fancj^g “ an ulcer ” is present, when the only thing required is resolutely to if^nore the condition of his urethral organs. In saying this, there is not the slightest intention of deprecating careful treatment of every case of true gleet, for the danger of this leading to a stricture is notorious. The gonococci seem to establish a home in the epithelial cells and sometimes in the sub-epithelial tissues; a plastic exudation