GANGRENE. 146 gangrene, and the cliaracteristics are those already given, with, in addition, the greater inHammation about the line of separation and the more acute spread of the disease, to which I have just referred. The general condition of the patient is bad. He is generally in an asthenic condition; and if left to itself the disease almost always terminates fatally, either from septic complications, from diabetic coma, or from exhaustion. As regards the treatment., one must especially warn diabetics to be very careful to avoid any injury, lest an acute inflammation, and very probably a gangrenous inflammation, should result. More especially they should avoid injuries to the feet, the wearing of tight boots, etc. Next, the general condition should be attended to, and they should be placed on anti-diabetic diet, that is to say, should avoid substances which will tend to the production of sugar, sugar itself, and all starchy foods, potatoes, etc. ; they should live generally on animal food, eggs, fish, milk in moderation, and very small quantities of greens. As to bread, they should either have stale bread or toasted bread, or, still better, the special biscuits and loaves which are made for diabetic patients, the most palatable of which are the almond biscuits. Further, if a diabetic patient does sustain any injury, one must be particularly careful in the antiseptic precautions, so as to avoid the entrance of micro-organisms. Once the gangrene has occurred, opium should be employed in large quantities, or still better than opium is codeine, which is said to diminish the irritability of the afferent nerves of the liver. Codeine is given in the first instance in quarter-grain doses three times a day, and this may be increased up to five grains. Once the gangrene has occurred, one must at an early period consider the question of amputation. Formerly the rule was not to amputate in cases of diabetic gangrene on account of the great tendency to inflammation and suppuration in the stump, to the extension of the gangrene, or to death from diabetic coma. Here again, however, the rules have been completely altered by the employment of antiseptic measures, and from recent work it seems quite evident that the best treatment in the great majority of cases is as early amputation as possible. By strict asepsis, the inflamma^ tion in the stump is avoided, septic troubles are prevented, and <rangrene does not occur if the amputation has been performed sufficiently high up; and as regards the question of diabetic coma, the patient is really not more liable to its occurrence after amputa- tion than he is during the course of the diabetic gangrene. As to gangrene after acute fevers, this especially occurs after typhus and typhoid fever, and here the gangrene attacks the extremities and the parts farthest from the heart, namely, the toes, nose ears, and sometimes the fingers. This form of gangrene is supposed also to be due to the occurrence of endarteritis and thrombosis. In some cases, however, it is due to embolism. The disease generally commences during the period of convalescence. The type of gangrene is of the dry variety, it is unilateral, and the