656 ANEURYSM. artery are usually fatal, but a single case of inguinal varicose anev,- rysm has been recorded. Aneurysm in the buttock.—An aneurysm in the buttock may spring from either the gluteal or sciatic artery, and is about as often traumatic as spontaneous in origin. Gluteal aneurysm is quite four times as frequent as sciatic. Symptoms.—The tumour is buried deep in the buttock, and unless large, may escape notice for a long time; if connected with the sciatic artery it may grow into the pelvis. At first the tumour is small, firm, deep, and fixed, and closely simulates a pulsating tumour of bone ; later in its course it may attain a great size and come to resemble an abscess, and to render certain the diag- nosis between abscess and aneui’ysm a fine exploring needle should be passed into the swelling, when, if it is an uncured aneurysm, bright red blood will escape. The chief symptoms of these aneurysms is limitation of movement at the hip, pain in the part, and pain from pressure upon the great sciatic nerve. When small, the height of the swelling on the buttock distinguishes a gluteal from a sciatic aneurysm, but when of large size it may be impossible to distinguish one from the other; the early onset of pain along the sciatic nerve, and the extension of the tumour within the pelvis, are points in favour of its being connected with the sciatic artery. Spontaneous cure has been known to occur, but the general termination of these cases is death from external htemorrhage. Treatment.—Entire rest and the usual constitutional treat- ment should be given a fair trial. Aneurysm in the buttock is well adapted for galvano-puncturc, and the employment of other direct coagulating agents; there is no danger of wounding any important structure in operating, and if portions of clot are washed into the branches of the artery, the embolism is without .special danger. At the same time, the tumour is particularly badly situated for the employment of other means. The distal ligature cannot be practised; it is very rarely possible to place a ligature on the diseased artery between the pelvis and the aneurysmal sac; excision of the tumour is difficult, and there is danger of primary and secondary haemorrhage, but it has been successful in five cases. Ligature of the internal iliac artery also is available, and has been successful, and with the improved method of reaching this artery through the peritoneum, instead of behind it, this operation is to be recommended. Aneurysm of the femoral artery.—Spontaneous aneurysmi of the femoral artery is not very common, as in the upper part of its course the artery is well supported by its strong fibrous sheath, and in Hunter’s canal it is surrounded by muscles as well as covered over by a strong aponeurosis. It is more frequent in Scarpa s triangle than in Hunter’s canal, and is an affection limited to the male sex. It may be fusiform, but it is more commonly sacculated in nature. , , . j In Scarpa’s triangle it is usually globular in form ana oiten projects through the saphenous opening; but in Hunter’s canal the