565 THROMBOSIS. in the centre and gradually involving the whole, until the pro- ducts are poured into the circulating blood. The same process may occur at the tip of a projecting thrombus, gradually melting it away. In either case the detritus, or products of the softening or disintegration of the clot, may be arrested in the pulmonary capillaries, but being non-infective and unirritating, they give rise to no symptoms, nor any inflammation. The disappearance of a clot in this way, without obvious embolism, is sometimes spoken of as its “ absorption,” but the term is not then used accurately. In this process the blood-cells do not return to the circulation as living functional corpuscles—the detritus of the clot is dead matter. (4) Yellow OT infective softening.—This is the most important change that occurs in thrombi. It is only met with as the result of infection of the clot with septic micrococci, whether these organisms have reached it in the coagulating blood or from the wall of'the vein. It is always associated with septic phlebitis, either as cause or effect. It is the result partly of the peptic action of the toxines of the cocci, and partly of the suppurative phlebitis which always accompanies such a change in the thrombus. The clot breaks down into a reddish-yellow pus-like creamy pulp, which consists of granular detritus, pus-cells, and micrococci. If this softening involves the whole clot, the products of it are poured into the circulating blood, and the particles are carried to the lungs and lodge in the arterioles ; as they are infected emboli, and contain septic micrococci, they set up suppuration and “ secondary abscesses.” This process plays a very important part in most cases of pyaemia. A softened septic clot may be shut in by coagulation extending beyond the infected portion of the vein, and, happily, tliis often occurs in the less intense forms of infection, and so many cases of infected thrombosis end in a local abscess. (5) Embolism may occur from either a portion or the whole of a clot being dislodged, or from softening of the thrombus. Its results depend upon the nature of the embolus, whether simple or infective, and upon its size and place of arrest. It is an accident of extreme danger, and often occurs under slight provocation, and without any warning. The possibility of its occurrence must not be lost sight of in every case of thrombosis, and it may be useful to mention two or three illustrative cases. A man in the out-patient room of the hospital with a thrombus in the saphena vein, slapped the part to show how little regard he paid to it—and fell dead upon the floor— the thrombus had been displaced by his blow and cari'ied to the heart, whose action it at once arrested. A woman, who had been in Middlesex Hospital for six weeks for a fracture of the shaft of the femur, attempted to sit up in bed, and almost immediately died from a thrombus in the profunda vein getting displaced and carried to the pulmonary artery. A woman, who had thrombosis of the pelvic and iliac veins after delivery, when all the acute symptoms had subsided, turned in bed and lifted her infant from the cot by her side, and by this efibrt she displaced a large thrombus, which lodged in her heart