1035 SIMPLE SYNOVITIS. and for the system generally, so that all vascular excitement may be avoided. We may also do a good deal constitutionally by the use of saline purges, with a little antimony in sthenic cases to relieve vascular tension, and remove effete products from the blood which niiglit lower the vitality of the tissues and render them more vulner- able to morbid influences. In asthenic cases, on the other hand we must be cautious with purgatives, and must remember that tonics and stimulants are indicated, and that where there is much pain preventing sleep and interfering with the appetite, anodynes and sedatives are given with advantage. The local treatment comes next m the form of blood-letting either by means of leeches to the part, or wet cupping where the patient is strong enough to bear the loss of blood. Then, or in place of these measures, the application of cold by means of the ice-bac or evaporating lotions IS of the greatest service. Where these melins tail to check the inflammatory process, and the latter is runnin<^ Jiigh hot fomentations, with or without belladonna, will be found tension fiom effusion, aspiration of tlie joint with a sterilised needle is the readiest way of givino- relief And tln'o shodd be done before the capsule and Wntfhave btli ove“ ‘ fSlv^pl-’ membrane permanently altered. Care- fully performed, this operation can do no harm, and may save much time to the patient and loss of function to the joint. —Simple cases treated on one or other of these lines sually do well, and the prognosis is favourable. The active con- gestion becomes less and less, and with it the effusion of serum into e parts around, and the hyper-secretion of serum. With the dis appearance of tins swelling and tension all pain ceases, and local md general fever subside. As a rule, the effused fluid is sooraSoAed and a complete resMutio ad integrum, takes place Tn « however iu debilitated iudividuak absor^u Sw, eepecMv from the joint cavity, and the capsule may be much weakenpd b-n- +7 d- ension if prolonged. This^condition^vt Ts /tSl ,ue„tl/tS ieBX?iS? 5~tlfe huid‘£ u‘p€E?^ oTs?cSf ifm° n ^ ®®pfic matter derived from the blnr«f7 measure has been too lono- delnved fito where the H H * 2 ° ^ ^ ^ synovial membnme has often