510 TNJRBJES OF BJ.OOD-VFSSFLS. to an extent and for a length of time quite out of proportion to the size of the vessels divided. (c) Movement of tlie part, if slight, may displace a forming clot, and so prolong the haemorrhage. If violent and excited, it also acts by increasing the force of the heart’s action. In sponging a wound, if the sponge is rubbed over the surface instead of being gently pressed upon it, a similar displacement of clot is often occasioned. (d) Stimulation of the heart, by increasing the blood pressure in the arteries, directly impedes the arrest of haemorrhage, or starts it afresh. Tliis stimulation may be physical, as by movement, change of posture, the exhibition of “ stimulants ”—alcohol, ether, ammonia, etc. or emotional. The importance of this fact will be insisted on when we speak of the treatment of haemorrhage. (e) Division of an artery in a muscle.—When a muscle is cut transversely to its fibres, the muscular tissue often contracts farther than the arteries in it retract, and the ends of the vessels are left projecting from the cut surface of the muscle. This prevents the formation of a good external clot. Such vessels are, however, usually quickly closed by the formation of a central clot in their contracted mouths. (/) Haemopliilia.—{See page 376.) . . „ The arrest of haemorrhage from a wounded vein is effected in a similar way by the coagulation of blood in the orifice of the vein— the central clot—supported by an external clot, and protected by the internal clot extending a short distance along the vein._ The internal- clot is shorter in a vein than in an artery, and, owing to the lessened blood pressure in a vein, there is not the same necessity for it. Contraction and retraction are very slightly marked in jeins, and are of no practical importance. But, on the other hand, the walls of a cut vein collapse; and this greatly aids in the formation of a central clot. The low blood pressure in a vein greatly favours tlie coacfulation of the blood, and the adhesion of the clot to the cut end of the vein. When the walls of a vein cannot collapse, and when the blood pressure is greater, venous hiemorrhage may be fatal. It is to be remembered that in many cases there is no hsemorrhage from wounded veins, or the pressure of the blood in them is reduced to a minimum. Thus, when a vein is cut across, valves above the wound may prevent any blood from flowing from the cardiac end; and if the companion artery is severed at the same time, the stream of blood through the capillaries is arrested, and none reaches the distal end. 2 The repair of wounded vessels (or the natural per- manent arrest of haemorrhage).-This is accomplished by the formation of a cicatrix in the vessel, which seals over the wound, and in its main features the healing of a divided artery or vein resembles the healing of a wound in any other tissue. This process in othei tissues has been already fully described; and here we need only note the features peculiar to the healing of blood-vessels. In'tlie first place, it is necessary to observe that while the clot