SYPHILIS. 396 secondaiy stage, and generally denote a very severe attack or a low state of health in the patient. Pernphigiis is more commonly met with in infants suffering severely from inherited syphilis, than in adults with the acquired form ; on the other hand, rupia is, perhaps, conhned to the latter. These five classes of eruptions occurring on skin and mucous membranes—namely (1) erythematous or roseolar; (2) papular or lichenoid (including the papulo-squamous or squamous syphilide); (3) tubercular or lupoid; (4) pustular and vesicular; (5) bullous or pemphigus and rupia—include all the chief varieties met with during the secondary stage. Rare forms—such as a purpuric or haemorr- hagic syphilide and the so-called pigmentary eruption—need not here be described. Clmractei's of llie skin eruptions.—It must be clearly understood that the skin lesions of syphilis rarely keep to one type, and that, for instance, the same patient may present papules inter- spersed with pustules, and here and there a lupus-like patch. This polymorphism is a marked characteristic of syphilitic eruptions; another is their rough symmetry (the earlier the eruption the more decided will the symmetry be); a third feature is their tendency to disappear spontaneously after existing a certain time, and much more quickly under the intenial use of mercury ; a fourth is the absence of pain or itching about the eruption; a fifth, the copper or lean ham colour the spots may assume ; finally, they occur especially on the flexor aspects of the limbs, the front and back of the abdomen, the forehead, and edge of the hairy scalp. Taken together, these charac- ters are of considerable use in the diagnosis of syphilitic skin disease, but either one of them may be wanting. Thus, for instance, a secondary eruption may be uniformly roseolar or papular, it may affect the extensor surfaces largely, may cause a fair amount of irritation, etc. Another important point to bear in mind is that there is no single form of skin lesion peculiar to syphilis. “ It may imitate all, it originates none.” The most characteristic undoubtedly are the condyloma and the “ limpet-sheU ” crust of rupia. In examining for an early syphilide, particular attention should be directed to the front of the abdomen and chest and the inner aspect of the thighs, for not infrequently the eruption is almost confined to these parts. The penis and scrotum are often affected, and a very characteristic form on the latter is a crescent of reddish infiltration or confiuent papules, which ma}’ be accompanied with some peeling, or develop into a condyloma. The annular or gyrate outline is met with also on other parts of the body, sometimes as perfect circles of the eruption ; at others in most irregular figures, due to the coalescence of several circles (Fig. 89). A similar gyrate arrangement is met with in some parasitic skin eruptions—i.e" those due to the tinea fungus—and it may happen that only careful microscopic examination, or a search for other syphilitic symptoms, will decide the diagnosis. The term serpi- ginous is applied to an eruption which creeps over the surface,