280 anesthetics. that small quantities only (half to one drachm) should be added at a time , and that fresh air should be freely admitted throughout. C. E. mixture, followed by ether.—This is an excellent method of producing amesthesia in many cases I Kendles or Skinners mask (Kgs. 50 and 51), or both in succes- S and an Orm.sby’s inhaler 1 eUier. Partial anaesthesia having been induced y the mixture, the Ormsby’s inhaler, charged with ether, should be gradually applied. Excitement and struggling are rare. **»®*l»*”«e with a general anaisthetic The injection of from ^ gr. to J gr. of morphine, with or without-i- o-r of atropine, is strongly recommended by some as a preliminary melsure before general amesthesia. The susceptibility of the patient to morphine should be previously ascertained, and his general state of health carefully considered before this mixed narcosis is employed. The injection should be made about twenty minutes before the hour fixed for operation. When patients are thus treated, or when an opiate has for other reasons been given, it will be found that much smaller quantities of the anaesthetic than usual are required : that excite- ment, struggling, rigidity, salivation, and cough are exceptional: and that It IS often possible to keep up a passive and analgesic condition with extremely small doses of the anaesthetic. The combination of morphine and chloroform is said to prevent inconvenient vascularity in cerebral operations (Horsley); and the analgesic state which may be secured by the method has been found of service in the sm-^ery of the mouth and nose (Thiersch). In giving an anesthetic after morphine, care must always be taken to administer as little as possible, otherwise the respiratory functions may become depressed. Other methods.—The so-called “bichloride of methylene” (a mechanical mixture of chloroform and methylic alcohol), ethidene dichloride, bromide of ethyl, and amylene or pental, are inferior in one or more respects to the ansesthetics above considered. 3. The choice of the anaesthetic and of the method of its administration. Looking at the matter in its broadest aspect, we may arrano-e cases requiring a general anaesthetic in two main groups : (1) those presenting no special peculiarities—in other words, ordinary or average cases / and (2) those in which some departure from our usual method of procedure is necessary—these may be called, for purposes of description, exceptional cases. 1. The choice of anaesthetics and methods for routine nse in ordinary cases.—Our endeavour should be to select that anaesthetic which has the least risk to life attached to it. It hence follows that, whenever practicable, nitrous oxide should be chosen. When this gas is administered as has been described, it will be found that many operations often regarded as beyond its range may be successfully performed, so far as the avoidance of all pain is con- cerned. In ^ the event of nitrous oxide being inapplicable, as it is in most surgical cases, the next safest anaesthetic—viz. ether—should,