OOOAINE. 289 II. LOCAL AN.^STHESIA. For the ^n-eat majority of surgical operations, general anaesthesia is undoubtedly prefiable to all other means of preventing pam But there are, nevertheless, numerous cases in which local anaesthes Se.-s such ndvautages that genc-al anesthetics are fo" rarely needed. Then there are cases in which the advantages of one svstem are so equally balanced by those of the other, that one Zr^eon will prefer a general, another a local anaesthetic. And lastly in exceptional circumstances, for example, when a patient displays an insuperable objection to losing consciousness, when a brief operation has to be performed upon a patient whose condition is such that the risks of a general anaesthetic are very considerable, when ether or chloroform cannot be obtained, or when no assistance is at hand, local anaesthesia may prove of great seiwice. Of the means which have been adopted for the production of local insensibilitv to pam, two only are sufficiently reliable to merit consideration. These are (1) the employment of cocaine, and the application of some frigorific process by which the part involved becomes numb and more or less completely anaesthetised. 1. Cocaine. (a) Properties and local action.—Aqueous solutions of the hydrochlorate, of various strengths, are generally employed. They should either be freshly prepared, or should contain boracic acid, saccharine, corrosive sublimate, or salicylic acid in small portions, to prevent the growth of fungus to which unprotected solutions are otherwise liable. Experience has shoivn that when- ever the drug can be so applied that it comes into contact with sensory nerve-endings, these become temporarily paralysed, and an analgesic area results. Solutions applied to the conjunctiva or to the mucous membrane of the nose, throat, or larynx, quickly render the part insusceptible to pain, and a similar though not so satis- factory a form of analgesia follows the application to the mucous membrane of the genito-urinary passages and rectum. The skin can only be thoroughly anaesthetised when the solution is subcutaneously injected. Solutions of cocaine produce vaso-motor constriction over the area to which they are applied, a point of some importance in those surgical operations in which an anaemic state of the part is desired. (b) Indications, contra-indications, ami inodes of application. Ophthalmic surgery.—In the large majority of cases cocaine answers remarkably well. It cannot be relied upon in operations upon young children and very nervous subjects; when any inflam- matory condition of the eye is present; or when the operation to be performed involves sensitive parts to which the drug cannot obtain K