148 GANGRENE. (See Fig. 7.) Among their products are large quantities of gases, chiefly hydrogen and carburetted hydrogen, and the great charac- teristic of this form of gangrene is the very rapid development of gas in the tissues. Of the organisms that produce somewhat similar eflects in the lower animals, we have that known as the cause of symptomatic anthrax in cattle, which leads to the rapid development of crepitating swellings, and, if the animal live long enough, to extensive sloughing (page 46). We have also the bacillus that pro- duces the disease known as malignant oedema, which no doubt must be closely allied to that causing this acute traumatic gangrene. In the case of malignant oedema—which, by the way, also attacks man and has occurred in several instances after subcutaneous injections, more especially of musk, in which it seems to grow very readily— the disease is due to a long bacillus which is an anaerobe, and which grows with great rapidity in the subcutaneous tissues, causing enormous swelling of the part from the presence of oedematous fluid, and within a very short time the death of the patient or the animal. This bacillus of malignant oedema can be also obtained from garden earth, and if portions of garden earth be introduced under the skin of guineapigs, a considerable proportion of them will die of malignant oedema after two or three days. [See page 46.) The course of acute traumatic gangrene is generally very rapid, averaging about three days before the death of the patient. Pre- ceding the development of the gangrene the patient does not feel so well, or the shock from which he sufiered in the flrst instance as the result of the accident continues, his pulse becomes irregiilar, he is very loquacious and very frightened, and soon complains that the wound has become painful, and feels very tense. If the wound be examined the parts around will be found to be hard, oedematous, shining, and tense, the skin being white from depriva- tion of blood, and very soon becoming dark, livid, or red. At the same time crepitation becomes very marked from the large amount of gas which is present, and the parts may even be resonant on percussion. Once the disease has started it spreads with enormous rapidity, and presents all the ordinary appearances of moist gan- grene, bullae forming on the surface, and the part becoming black and foul-smelling. On© may indeed almost see the swelling extend- ino' owing to the gas forcing its way through the tissues, and very soon the whole limb will become gangrenous, and the patient will die in about thirty hours after the full development of the gangrene, towards the end having passed into a somnolent condition, lying very quiet, complaining of nothing, with rapid pulse and respira- tion. There is usually no fever, and the temperature may even be subnormal. ^ ^ • i. • 4.1 As regards the treatment^ of course the first point is tlie pro- phylactic treatment, which will be discussed in speaking of the treat ment of wounds which have not been made by the surgeon (page 226). In the case of such wounds, especially where they are filled mth earth, one must bear in mind the great risk of some of tliese septic