469 SARCOMATA. 6 Melano-sarcoma.-structurally this species may be com- posed of round or spindle cells. Occasionally they are arranpd m alveoli. The distinguishing feature is the presence, in the cells and intercellular substance, of a variable quantity of black It was formerly the custom to describe all varieties of melanoma as cancers. Now that the histological distinctions^ between sarcoma and carcinoma are more accurately defined, it is clear that the maiority of pigmented tumours must rank as sarcomata. In these tumours the amount of pigment varies greatly; in some there is only sufficient to produce a brown discoloration, others are iet black. Occasionally it happens that the primary tumour contains very little pigment, yet the secondary deposits are inky black. I he pigment particles are lodged in and among the characteristic cells of the tumour, and also in its fibrous matrix and in the walls of the v©ss©ls Blelaiio-sarcoma of the skin.—Two varieties occur in the skin. The most frequent arises in pigmented moles; the rarer in or near the nail-matrix of a finger or toe. Melano-sarcomata occurring in moles differ from other melano- mata in that the cells are collected in alveoli; the tissue forming the base of a mole, as a rule, presents an alveolar disposition, and this structural peculiarity comes out very strongly when a mole is the seat of a melanoma. {See page 718.) A pigmented mole may remain quiescent throughout a very long life and never cause the least inconvenience; in other instances, fortunately rare, as life advances the mole ulcerates, perhaps bleeds freely, and may even become partially healed. Coincident, however, with the onset of ulceration the adjacent lymph-glands enlarge, become charged with pigment and sarcomatous tissue, spaces filled with black fluid form in them, and finally the overling skin ulcerates. The infection may not proceed farther than this; recurrent haemorrhage from the fungating glands or a furious bleeding, should a large vein or artery become broached by ulceration, carries off the patient. In many cases the morbid material is disseminated, and secondary knots form in the liver, lung, kidney, or brain, and death arises from interference with the function of these organs. In other cases, instead of ulcerating, the mole becomes prominent and the lymph-glands in anatomical relationship with the part enlarge, and deposits at the same time occur in viscera, bones and skin. It does not necessarily follow that in all cases of melanoma occurring in moles secondary deposits are formed in the viscera. In some rare cases the tumour seems to become mainly a source of pigment, large quantities of which enter the circulation, to be discharged with the urine in which it is recognised as melanin. Exceptionally the skin will assume a dusky tint. Dig'ital melanoma.—Melanosis in connection with the fingers and toes assumes two forms: it may occur as a deep pigmen- tation of tlie skin, usually in the immediate neighbourhood of