G44 ANEUIlYSAr. cervical plexus. Compression of the sympathetic trunk may lead to dilatation of the arteries of the same side of the head and face, with abundant sweating, and contracted pupil. Spontaneous cure lias been noted in one case only; the disease generally proves fatal, death being due to asphyxia from pressure, or to rupture of the aneurysm, either externally or into the trachea, oesophagus, or lung. Treatiuent.—Careful constitutional treatment should first be well tried, and digital compression of the right common carotid artery may be combined with it. If these means fail, simultaneous ligature of the right common carotid and subclavian arteries should be practised. It does not suffice to tie one of the trunks, for the free current of blood still flowing through the parent vessel prevents cure of the aneurysm; even when both are tied, the flow of blood to the branches of the first part of the subclavian artery may be sufficient to prevent occlusion of the artery and cure of the aneurysm. Should the size of the aneurysm prevent the ligature of one or both of these arteries, or the operation fail to cure, electrolysis and acupuncture are the only other means at the disposal of the surgeon. Diagnosis of aneurysms at the root of the neck.—A tumour at the root of the neck having been recognised as an aneurysm, it is often a matter of great difficulty to determine exactly what artery, or part of artery, it is connected with. Atten- tion to the following points, will, however, generally lead to a correct diagnosis. (1) Apparent origin.—An aortic aneurysm is often detected within the chest before it appears at the root of the neck,^ and generally extends farther into the mediastinum than an innominate aneurysm; its first appearance in the neck may exactly resemble that of an innominate or carotid aneurysm; an aneurysm of the second part of the arch may project immediately above the episternal notch. An innominate aneurysm appears first behind and above the inner end of the right clavicle, and fills up the hoUow between the two heads of the sterno-mastoid muscle. A carotid aneurysm bulges forwards beneath the inner head of the sterno- mastoid. A subcla.vian aneurysm appears first in the posterior triangle, or beneath the outer head of the sterno-mastoid muscle. (2) I>ii*ection ofgrowtli.—A.n aortic aneurysm vaaj extend in any direction, especially within the chest; the detection of a considerable tumour within the thorax renders the diagnosis clear. An innominate aneurysm may be of a globular shape and project forwards, or it may extend along either of its branches. A carotid aneurysm grows up the neck along the sterno-mastoid, while a subclavian aneurysm usually extends horizontally along the upper border of the clavicle. , ~ , (Sj Liimits.—No lower limit can ever be felt to an aortic or innominate aneurysm, but the finger can often be dipped down below a carotid aneurysm, or to the inner side of a subclavian tumour. _ (4) Pressure ellccts.—Tlie pressure signs are very similar in