DISLOCATIONS. 978 steady traction upon the arm and fore-arm for about ten minutes, tlie limb being nearly at right angles to the trunk. As the traction proceeds, the arm is I’aised nearer and nearer towards the head, but is, of course, carefully maintained in the same horizontal plane as the body. The scapula must be well pushed downwards, and fixed as much as possible by an assistant, who takes up his position on the opposite side to the surgeon, and facing the patient. He keeps hold of the patient’s trunk, and introduces thereby a counter-extending force. In this manipulation the limb is kept horizontal throughout. The muscles usually cease to resist from the long-continued traction, and the limb being suddenly brought down against the side, reduction is effected. With some surgeons it is a very favourite method, and the principle is to tire the muscles by long-continued traction. Simple flexion of the fore-arm, with external or internal rota- tion, is employed by many surgeons. Kelly, of Dublin, advises that the patient lie upon the edge of a low bed ; the surgeon insinuates his hip into the axilla, and draws the affected limb across the front of his own pelvis, and round to the opposite hip. He now slowly rotates his body outwards, and makes traction upon the wrist of the dislocated limb at the same time, thus prising the head of the bone outwards to its socket. Methods of treatment of subspinous and suhclavicidar disloca- tions.—These displacements are far more difficult to reduce than those into the axilla; and in a case of subclavicular dislocation seen by the writer, when five days had elapsed before treatment was com- menced, all efforts at restoration of the parts were quite unavailing. The first principle of treatment of these dislocations seems to be to make extension with rotary movernents in the axis of the dis- location, untiTthe head of the bone is brought close to the glenoid cavity, and presumably below it, when fiexion of the fore-arm, and external or internal rotation, or extension with the heel in the axilla, will probably replace it. Treatment after reduction.—After the reduction of a dislocation of the humerus the limb may long remain feeble, with greatly impaired movement at the shoulder, especially in the upward direction. This is due to the weakness of the deltoid and the cicatricial contraction of the lower part of the capsul^ Tf +>io p^vnnmflex nerve has been stretched or ruptured the deltoid the farm should be bandaged to the