SENILE GANGRENE. lil the living axis cylinder may still be present and give rise to this intense pain. As the result of this pain the patient becomes sleep- less, and after a time his pulse becomes feeble, and he is very rest- less! If the disease be allowed to run its course, the patient may ultimately die, being worn out by the pain and v^ant of sleep, or some septic disease may develop at the line of demarcation. As I said before, in speaking of dry gangrene, the line of demarcation fonns very slowly, and the death of the tissue is very apt to re- commence as the result of the various causes which have already been enumerated. Ultimately, however, if the patient live, the process will come to an end either after the death of a few toes or of a portion of the foot, and the dead parts may gradually drop off, leaving the bones and other tissues exposed. In some cases when a line of demarcation forms, the inflammation may be pretty acute, and there may be a good deal of exudation into the part, leading to the occurrence of moist gangrene. Once it is evident that gangrene is about to occur, the first essential in the treatment is to disinfect the parts thoroughly, special care being taken in the disinfection of the nails and the parts surrounding them, and then, having thoroughly disinfected them, they should be wrapped up in antiseptic gauze, with a thick layer of salicylic wool outside, and the limb should be placed in a sbghtly-elevated position. This dressing permits evaporation of the fluid from the tissues, which is a point of great importance, because one wishes particularly to avoid the occurrence of moist gangrene, more especially if one be not sure of the asepticity of the tissues. Some surgeons apply ointments of various kinds, or car- bolic oil or other greasy dressings j but as I have already pointed out, the use of such dressings is not advisable, because they inter- fere with the drying up of the tissues. In addition to these local measures, the patient’s strength must of course be supported by a generous diet and fresh air, and above all steps should be taken to relieve his pain, more especially by the free administration of opium. Indeed, apart from the relief gained, opium in large doses seems to have a very considerable action in arresting the progress of the disease in certain cases. At an early period also the question of amputation must be carefully considered. The old rule with regard to this point in cases of senile gangrene was that amputation should never be performed, but that the part should be allowed to drop off, the utmost that should be done by the surgeon being to snip through dead tendons or dead pieces of bone, and on no account to interfere with the living tissues. The reason for this was that before the antiseptic period acute inflammation almost always—to some extent, at any rate—followed amputation; and if inflammation occurs in these weak tissues, it is very likely indeed to lead to sloughing of the flaps and more rapid progress of the gangrene, which then in reality becomes a moist gangrene. At the present time, however, we can avoid this inflammatory distui'bance, and therefore the rules as