XXXIII DISEASES OF JOINTS. Bv AETHUK E. BAEKEE, F.E.C.S., Professor of the Principles and Practice of Surgery, and Professor of Clinical Surgery at University College, and Surgeon to University College Hospital. In studying the diseases of joints, it is necessary here to assume that their general anatomy is fully understood, and need not therefore be further alluded to. The details of the histology of the several tissues of the articulations must also be left untouched. But it must not be forgotten that their minuter structure has the most impoi’tant bearing upon the pathological changes affecting the various component parts of the articulations. The synovial membrane, bones, cartilage, and ligaments behave quite differently towards the same morbid influence, whether it be traumatic, directly infective, or generally constitutional. This is only what might be expected when we consider that the synovial membrane is physiologically very active, the bones on the immediate aspect of joints are less so, while the cartilages and ligaments play an almost completely passive part in the economy. For it appears abundantly clear, from what we observe in all parts of the body, that where physiological activity is greatest there is to he seen the greatest vulnerability to disease of an active type. This rule is also observed to hold good in the age of tissues—those which are youngest, or, in other words, most energetic in growth, being most liable to active disease, while those which are more mature, or more highly diflerentiated, have the greatest power of resistance to morbid influences. We see, therefore, that, ceteris 'par\hus, children ai’emore liable to disease of the joints than adults, just as those tissues of joints are more vulnerable which possess the least highly differentiated structure. This law appears to be related in some way to the vascularity of the tissues, those being most liable to active disease in which the amount of blood is greatest, and vice versd. It is necessary to keep these points in mind, both on pathological and clinical grounds. The actual consideration of the diseases affecting the joints of the body naturally divides itself into :— (1) The study of the general pathology, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis of those morbid conditions met wdth