CERONIG ABSCESS OF BONE. 891 sinus will remain in this condition for many months, or years, unless some treatment be adopted to shorten its progress! And during this time infection by the micrococci of suppuration may take place, and render it the more difficult to bring the case to a satisfactory issue. Complications may arise, such as involvment of a neighbouring joint, amyloid disease of viscera, or exhaustion from pi’ofuse suppuration. General tuberculosis may take place, but it is comparatively rare as a sequel to tuberculous disease of the bones of the extremities. Treatment.—An enlargement of bone from tuberculous disease, if seen sufficiently earlv, may for a time be left without any operative measures for its relief. Meanwhile, general treatment should be adopted, such as good air, good food, and absolute rest to the part affected. A splint of some kind should, if possible, be applied to ensure this result. In the case of the foot, a knee-rest is invaluable, as it prevents any pressure on the diseased part, and yet enables the patient to be out in the fresh air as often as his strength allows. So soon as softening of the tuberculous growth is thought to have taken place, an incision should be made, and, if necessary, the bone perforated with a drill or gouge. If a cavity be found or granulation tissue be present, a Volkmann’s spoon should be used to remove thoroughly the caseous products and tuberculous tissue. If a large cavity is left, a drainage-tube may be introduced, but should not be retained for more than twenty-four or thirty-six hours. In most cases a drainage-tube may be dispensed with altogether. The wound, in favourable circumstances, will heal, and if there be no recur- rence or further growth of tubercle, the case svill be at an end. On the other hand, in a few weeks or months a further collection of fluid may be found beneath the cicatrix of the first operation, when the same treatment must be again employed. If a sinus already exists, or pyogenic infection has obviously already taken place—a condition which would be recognised by the presence of true pus then the same operation of erasion is undertaken, but without the expectation that primary union of the skin incision will be obtained. Of course, in all these operations it is understood that the most careful methods of operating and dressing on aseptic principles are enforced. The same care must be taken to prevent the entrance and growth of the pus microbes as in joint operations. The early termination of the case will be found to depend almost entirely on the absence of pyogenic infection. Chronic 8,bsC6SS of bone, although not differing materially from the disease above described, requires a few words. It is more chronic in its progress, more localised, and more certainly relieved by operation than other tuberculous diseases of bone. It occurs most frequently in the young adult, and nearly always in the articular extremity of a long bone, and by preference in the upper end of the tibia. But no long bone can be said to be exempt, for it has been found in the lower extremity of the femur in the radius, humerus, and ulna. It very rarely involves the nei<^h- bourmg joint, being, as a rule, situated at some little distance from