ANEURYSM. 658 in Hunter’s canal the writer saw the femoral artery tied above and below the opening into the vein, with entire success. Popliteal aneurysm.—With the exception of the aorta, aneu- rysm occurs more frequently on the popliteal than any other artery. The affection is often symmetrical, the two tumours being noticed simultaneously, or the second appearing after the cure of the first. The frequency of popliteal aneurysm is due to several causes ;— (1) The contact of the artery with the bone. (2) The alteration of the length and calibre of the vessel occurring in the frequent and rapid movements of the knee-joint. (3) The want of support of the artery; all the other main arteries of the lov'er limb are well supported by muscles or fasciae, the popliteal alone is surrounded by loose cellular tissue and fat. (4) The termination of the artery in small arteries which lie deep among the muscles ; in the mouth of these branches an embolus may be caught and prove the starting- point of an aneurysm. Symptoms.—Both fusiform and sacculated aneurysms are met with in the ham, and the latter may spring from either the front or the back of the artery. When springing from the back the sac often attains a considerable size, compresses the popliteal vein and nerve, and tends to rupture. Sacculated aneurysm of the front of the artery is usually of small size; it is liable to erode the femur or tibia, and to cause effusion into the knee joint, or even to rupture into the articulation. Popliteal aneurysm may spread up along the artery into Hunter’s canal, or down into the leg and rupture beneath the calf muscles, or it may burst subcutaneously. Sometimes the patient can state exactly when the tumour developed, but more often its origin and early progress are insidious. Often the first symptom is pain about the knee or down the leg into the ankle, together with stiffness of the knee, and the condition is frequently mistaken for rheumatism; if there is effusion into the knee joint, still further support is lent to this error. Pressure upon the internal popliteal nerve causes pain shooting down to the toes, cramps, muscular weakness, and paralysis. Pressure upon the popliteal vein causes cyanosis of the limb below, with distension of the superficial veins and oedema. Erosion of the bones or of the ligament of Winslow is attended with constant aching or hot burning pain in the joint itself, with great stiffness of the joint and pain on attempting to move it. When a popliteal aneurysm opens into the knee joint, the synovial cavity becomes suddenly distended, the part is hot to the hand, and if the common femoral artery is compressed, the swelling of the knee yields a little to gentle compression. In any case of doubt, the introduction of a grooved needle or fine trocar will demonstrate the nature of the fluid in the joint. Popliteal aneurysm must be diagnosed from abscess, bursal cyst, pulsating sarcoma, and a solid tumour over the fascia. The signs by which the diagnosis can be arrived at have been already mentioned. An aneurysmal varix of the popliteal artery and veins has been several times observed.