568 DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. is reddened, and often it pits on pressure. There may be slight febrile disturbance. Gouty phlebitis may complicate an ordinary attack of gouty arthritis, or may occur independently; the areas of inflammation are often multiple, and the disease appears to be primarily an inflam- mation of the vein-wall, and secondarily thrombosis; the pain is often very severe, and it may last after the other acute symptoms have subsided. In chronic obliterative phlebitis there is very little pain, but the veins are felt as hard impervious cords, and this condition slowly spreads up along the vein. In phlebo-sclerosis of superficial veins the vessels stand out like tendons and roll under the finger, but the blood current in them is not obliterated. Treatment.—A patient with phlebitis shoiild be placed in bed, with the affected part at rest and evenly supported and raised on a pillow to favour the venous return. All sudden movement of the part, friction, or careless handling must be most carefully avoided, lest embolism occur, and owing to this danger the treatment must be continued after all acute symptoms have passed away. Heat relieves the pain and favours resolution, but poultices and fomentations are objectionable on account of the disturbance of the part attending their renewal. The best local application is a thick layer of cotton wool held in place by a “many-tailed” flannel bandage loosely adjusted; some surgeons recommend that the in- flamed part should be thickly smeared with equal parts of extract of belladonna and glycerine under the wool. This dressing should only be disturbed at long intervals, and it has the merit of protecting the clot in the vein from the fingers of patient, surgeon and nurse. The bowels should be unloaded, if necessary, by a saline purge, and the diet must be suitably regulated. In gouty phlebitis it should be restricted to fish, light farinaceous foods, and a moderate amount of milk; alcohol, sweets, meat, and butter are best with- held. In marasmic or “ post-febrile ” thrombosis, on the other hand, the diet must be liberal—as liberal as the patient’s powers of digestion permit. It used to be thought that many cases of thrombosis and phlebitis were due to an excess of fibrin in the blood, and that to combat this condition a lowering diet was in all cases indicated, but this view is incorrect. With the same view, alkalies and iodide of potassium were generally prescribed “ to keep the fibrin liquid ”; in gouty phlebitis alkalies are undoubtedly indicated, and if the symptoms are very acute, colchicum may be added; but in marasmic thrombosis, tonics and cod-liver oil should be given; in traumatic phlebitis no drug need be exhibited ; if there is any reason to suspect a syphilitic taint, iodide of potassium may do good. When the inflammation has subsided, if the oedema persists, a bandage should be worn, and for threatened “ solid oedema,” gentle upward frictions and hot douches are of service. In cases of slowly-spreading chronic phlebitis an attempt should be made to stop the process by excising a short portion of the vein above the diseased part.