REPAIR OF FRACTURE. 755 About the twelflh to fifteenth day the de- posit of lime salts can be recognised in the angle between the bone and the raised peri- osteum ; it advances towards the cleft most rapidly in the layers of callus next the bone (Fig. 217). We first notice slight grittiness, opacity, and increased firmness; then a hard red-brown mass, wedge-shaped and granular on section, becomes plain in the callus, and spreads till the whole is converted, and the masses above and below the cleft blend across it, fixing the fragments together, much as the clay around a graft unites the scion and stock. Ossification of the medul- lary callus occurs similarly, but a little later, beginning also in contact with the bone, and away from the fracture; a ring of bone is thus formed within each fragment, which thickens as it approaches the cleft, at the level of which it usually closes the medul- lary canal, and blends with its fellow across the cleft. Finally, periosteal ossi- fication creeps into the intermediary - callus and joins the mediillary callus. The fragments are thus united by bone (Fig. 220). The superficial layer of callus has assumed the appearance of periosteum, and remains unossified ; it is closely connected with the surrounding injured tissues, and both it and the periosteum for some distance from the fracture are a good deal swollen. Often a thin layer of new periosteal bone can be traced for some distance from the seat of frac- ture, but much and widespread callus suggests unusual irritation, probably from a compound Fig. 217.—A longitudinal Section of a Humenis nineteen Days after transverse Fracture with slight lateral Dis- placement above the entry of the medullary- artery, from a hoy, aged 10, who died from a fracture of the skull. Callus formation is poor and late as com- pared with that in Fig. 216. The dry pe- riosteum indicates the extent of the external callus. This formed most freely on tlie fragments where the yieriosteum had been most widely stripped; hero wedges of porous bone are seen. Inter- nal bony callus has formed most freely above the fracture; but it has closed the medullary canal of each fragment, and has narrowed the medul- lary channel in the neighbourhood. (Univ. College Mus., No. 41.) Fig. 213.—A longitudinal Section of a Clavicle twenty-three days after a comminuted Frac- ture. From a potman, aged 23, run over by a 'bus ; he died of bron- chitis with delirium, and was from the firsu ditiicult to control. The main fragments are united by a large mass of fibrous-look- ing, blood-stained cal- lus, in widen are embedded tw large sjilinters. At hree or four spots beneath the swollen per osteum posteriorly, c nsider- able masses of g anular new bone are seen; but ossification is deci- dedly Into. Univ. • College Jluseum, No. SSa,’