1034 DISEASES OF JOINTS. presence of leucocytes and lymph. The latter condition, ho'vever, is rarely s.een in simple cases. There is no sharp boundary lino between each of these conditions, they run one into the other insen- sibly, according to the intensity of the liyperremia. .i, i i The syinptosiis in such a simple acute case will be, sub- iectively, pain on movement or handling, a sense of heat in the joint, and perhaps some throbbing, with, in some cases, a little general pyrexia. Objectively, there will be general swelling, fluctuation ot fluid in the cavity, also redness and altered position, due to the ne- cessity of relaxing certain parts of the inflamed and tender capsule. The fluctuation in these cases will always be best seen on those aspects of the joint at which the capsule is thinnest. Thus, in the knee it will be observed on either side of the joint in front, and in the elbow on either side behind. In this state, if uncomplicated, the pressure of the cartilages o a<^ainst the other will cause no pain, but any friction of the synovial membrane upon subjacent parts is acutely painful._ This is a very important fact to bear in mind when endeavouring to determine whether the encrusting cartilages are involved or The diagnosis, except for the last point, is not difficult, and is based unon the foregoing factors. „ , e TheVapid onset of the swelling in the joint after the operation of one or other of the exciting causes mentioned above distinguishes it from any of the malignant tumours, as would also in most cases the increased heat, redness, and tenderness to the touch. The latter symptoms also serve to contrast it with the subacute orsCvitis. It is, perhaps, more likely to be confoundedj^th h^Shrus or effusiin of blood into the joint than with anything lise where there has been a history of injury as But in hcemarthrus the pouches of the joint are distende blood within an hour or so of the receipt of the mjury, ® ^ the most acute simple synovitis from violence does latter for some hours, and its effusion is much slov/er. When blood is present in the joint, too, the heat, redness, and swelhng are not so Fst^o^- 1“ -2 the tmt 1 • « Kirvnri wViile othcrwisc norDial. Ut coursej ^ j ISS. existed after consideration of all these points, the m- “*The geSftLaOncurof®'^^^^^^^^“’rFf? FSeX"