893 GTJMMATA OF BONE. symptoms may be obtained by large doses of iodide of potassium, with or without the addition of mercury, according to the effect produced by the former drug. . ^ , -.u 4. Gummata of bone are nearly alway.s associated with peri- osteal nodes or a more or less diffused osteosclerosis. Some portion of the inflammatory infiltration, whether it be in the periosteum or in the bone, softens, and presents the ordinary characters of a gumma. (See page 408 and Fig. 82.) The overgrowth of connective tissue which at one part organises and at another undergoes degenerative changes is the most characteristic feature of syphilis when it attacks the Cloacae. - Necrosis. Fig. 337.—A Portion of the Frontal Bone showing its outer Surface. An irregular sequestrum of which a large portion is carious, and involving both tables of the skull unequally, has been completely detached from the surrounding sclerotic bone. (St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum, No. 559.) bones, as it is when other organs are affected. An enlargement of bone, painful at night and tender on pressure, is the first indication of this, as of other diseases of bone. The special feature of its gum- matous nature is the presence in some part of the swelling of a small area of fluctuation. If this remains untreated, the skin will event- ually give way, discharging a thin watery fluid, and leaving an aper- ture with an irregular, perhaps crescentic, margin, like the gummatous ulceration of soft parts, leading to diseased bone. If the original swelling has been a softening periosteal node, the portion of bone affected will be the cortex only ; but if the whole thickness and more central parts of the bone be the primary seat of the trouble, a very irregular cavity and area of disease may be found to occupy the parts below the surface. If a large piece of dead bone is found, it is spoken of as syphilitic necrosis, which is, however, more common as the result of syphilitic ulceration of the parts covering a thin bone, such as the septum nasi and the irregular bones at the base of the skull. (See page