SYPHILIS. 388 he distinguished from mere inflammatory infiltration, and occasion- ally a deceptive hardness is produced in a soft chancre by cauterisa- tion with nitrate of silver. Within a very short time the inguinal lymphatic glands enlarge and form what is sometimes termed the bullety or amygdaloid bubo. All the glands in the oblique set along Poupart’s ligament (especially those nearest to the penis) increase in size; the bubo is painless, or almost so, adherent neither to the skin nor to the deep tissues, and very persistent. Even if mercury be given early, it may be many weeks or months before the glands return to their normal size. The highest glands of the vertical set are also sometimes enlarged. It is a curious fact that often the chancre is on one side of the genitals, the bubo on the other, no doubt owing to crossing of the lymphatic vessels. It should be noted that in a considerable number of cases (though certainly not the majority) the dorsal lymphatic vessels can be traced up from near the chancre to the root of the penis, or even to the glands themselves, as hard cords. These indurated lymphatics are of some value in diagnosis, as they rarely or never occur except in cases of syphilitic infection. Running from a chancre of the finger I have been able to trace them up to the axilla. The glands in each groin may enlarge equally, and sometimes attain a great size—up to that of a goose’s egg. It is, however, important to remember that the normal inguinal glands, if the patient be not stout, can readily be felt; and the younger the patient the more distinct are they likely to be. Again, owing to some non-venereal irritation—such as the pressure of a truss—a man may have his inguinal glands persistently enlarged. Following extra-genital chancres we find constantly induration and swelling of the nearest lymphatic glands. Thus, with a chancre on the lips or cheek, there will be a sub-maxillaiy bubo; on the conjunctiva a pre-auricular one with, as a rule, swelling of the glands below the jaw j a chancre on the fingers is attended with an axillary bubo (and in the case of the sore being on the iimer fingers, an epicondylar one), etc. It seems to be the fact that the bubo caused by the extra-genital chancres is more often inflamed and painful than when due to genital infecting sores, but indolent painless enlargement is not uncommon in the former case. Is every infecting chancre attended with gland enlargenmnt i Cases where the latter is absent, or where it cannot be detected, do undoubtedly occur, but they are so few that they may practically be disregarded. i„ „ Sometimes the chancre itself is very insigmficant merely^ a small indurated papule—at others it is a large deep ulcer, with foul-smelling discharge; occasionally we see a complete collar-like ring of induration around the base of the glans penis. In women the primary lesion is usually on one or other ot the labia ; it has been detected on the os uteri, but curiously the true • vaginal wall seems to be almost exempt. Amongst the less frequent sites of chancres we have to note the scrotum, perineum in both sexes.