81 ACUTE ABSCESS. in those parts where the tissues are tlie most vascular and of the Greatest vitality. Thus, if the abscess have formed beneath the skin, granulation of the skin will occur more rapidly than granula- tion of the fat beneath, and hence it is that abscesses in these situa- tions have a constant tendency to destroy the skin and to point and burst through it. On the other hand, where an abscess is deeply seated beneath a dense fascia, granulation occurs much more rapidly in the cellular tissue beneath the fascia than in the fascia itself, and consequently the abscess may extend for a very considerable distance rnay burrow., as it is termed—before an opening has formed in the fascia over it, either as the result of a sloughing process or as the result of granulation. Hence, where an abscess is somewhat deeply seated, and more especially where it is situated in an organ such as the breast, where there are numerous septa of fibrous tissue, we have an irregular cavity formed with recesses and pockets extending in various directions. This is a most important point to bear in mind with regard to the treatment. .ffltiology of acute abscess.—We may divide the causes of acute suppuration into those which are essential and those which are accessory. There is only one cause which is essential, and without which acute suppuration will not occur, namely, the presence of pyogenic organisms \ but there are many causes which are accessoi'y, and without the co-existence of some of which the pyogenic organisms may in certain circumstances be powerless to act. Therefore, on the one hand, suppuration will not occur unless these pyogenic organ- isms are present, while, on the other hand, even although they are there, it does not necessarily follow that suppuration must ensue. We have a considerable number of micro-organisms which are found in acute abscesses, and which are apparently the cause of the suppuration; but by far the most common of these are the Staphy- lococcus pyogenes aureus. Staphylococcus pyogenes albus, and Strep- tococcus pyogenes (page 25). Other forms are described which are much rarer and which appear also to be less virulent, such as the Staphylococcus pyogenes citreus. Staphylococcus albus and flavus, one or two forms of bacilli, etc. (page 26). As regards frequency with which these different forms occur, the most common is the Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, next the Staphylococcus pyo- genes albus, much more rarely the Streptococcus pyogenes, and then, quite as exceptions, the other organisms to which I have referred. The staphylococci occur in about 77 per cent, of acute abscesses, the streptococci in about 16 per cent., and the other organisms in the remainder. Thus the staphylococci are the chief causal agents of circumscribed acute abscesses; on the other hand, it may be men- tioned that the Streptococcus pyogenes is the essential cause of diffuse suppuration of the cellular tissue. The two chief forms of pyogenic staphylococci grow readily outside the body on all sorts of culture media. When inoculated into the ordinary nutrient jelly, both forms gi’ow readily at the ordinary temperature of the air, and both of them tend after a time to render the material fiuid, the