INJURIES OF BONES. 826 only way to bring tbe fniginonts into a corrosponding position is for the surgeon to supinate the liand—which he easily does. Ihe usual signs of fracture may be clear; but the upper half of the radius is so thickly covered with soft parts, and it is so diliicult, when swelling is present, to be certain whether the head of the radius moves or not with the lower fragment, that fractures without displacement must sometimes be inferred to exist rather than diagnosed. In fractures below the insertion of the pronator teres, active supination of the hand is again lost, but the upper fragment remains in the mid-position. It is said that the oblique and transverse pro- nators tend to approximate the fore-arm bones when broken in their neighbourhood. . Fracture of the shafts of both ulna and radius is less frequent than fracture of the radius alone. Glenerally both bones are broken about the same level, whether the injury result from direct deformity, mobility, and crepitus. No complication occurs with special frequency, and all are rare ; but gangrene from improper treatment has occurred here oftener than elsewhere. Pseudarthrosis is infre- quent. Luxuriant callus occasionally forms, its worst result being obliteration of the interval between the bones and prevention of pronation and supination. When the ulnar and radial fragments aie displaced towards each other, their union together is facilitated; and when this displacement can be shown to be due to faulty treatment, an action for malpraxis would probably succeed. Trcatmcul. of fraclures of the shafts of the uiua aiul radius.—Formerly all the above injuries were treated in the mid- position between jironation and supination, between anterior and iiosterior wooden splints (Figs. 262, 263). These may be used for fractures of the ulna alone, or for fractures of the radius or of both bones below the middle. The splints are cut from a plank to J in. thick, wider than the widest part of the fore-arm, and long enough to reach from below the external epicondyle to the knuckles, and irom the internal epicondyle to the wrist. The splints having been padded, deformity is reduced, the elbow is bent to 90°, the hand turned until the thumb points upwards, the splints are placed in position and fixed by webbing straps, above and below the fracture, drawn fan y i? ^ • Owing to the width of the splints these do not touch the borders of or indirectviolence. The ooramonest seat is at the middle or at the junction of the upper and middle thirds ; tbe commonest deformity is an angular bend towards the sub- cutaneous edge of the Fiff *^^31 —^ Fracture of both Bones of the Fore-arm. (Cast, No. 219, University College Museum.) ulna (Fig. 261) ; the in- jury is more easily recog- nisable than fracture of one shaft only, bygreater