tubeboulosis. 26*5 "Wounds in tlie tuberculous are remai’kably affected by their surroundings. The patient requii-es fresh air and the most favour- able hygienic conditions. Results may be obtained at the seaside whicl/can hardly be expected in the crowded wards of a city hosptal. tuberculous of souna plastic repair. Healing may be rapid, but it is not always substantial. As Verneuil well says, operations upon the tuberculous abound in Halt- successes, incomplete results, and unfinished cures.” _ "Upon tuberculous patients of middle age operations “^st be undertaken warily. The wounds in these individuals, especially when they involve the diseased area, often do badly, heal but indifferently, and are apt to be associated with inflammatory processes of the On Se'question of operations upon the subjects of actual and active phthisis Sir James Paget writes as follows “ The fever and other accidents that may follow an operation may do special harm to a tuberculous patient .... The fear of such a calamity should dissuade you from all operations of mere convenience, and fiom all measures of what may be called decorative surgery, in phthisical people; but it should not always dissuade you from operations that will cure diseases from which they suffer much, and by which their lives are wasted, as they are by ffstula and diseases of the bones and joints. In these and the like cases the main question is whether the local disease—say, a diseased joint—is weighing on the patient so heavily or aggravating his phthisis and shortening his life so much as to justify an operation attended with more than the average risk of life and health. “ In all cases of acute or progressive phthisis great risk is incurred by almost every operation. . ." . . The case is very different with chronic or suspended phthisis. In these it is often advisable to incur the somewhat increased risk of even a large operation, in order to free the patient from the distress and wasting of a considerable local disease, such as that of a joint; and I should be disposed to say that it is always advisable to cure, if you can, a small disease such as fistula. I say if you can, for you will often be disappointed.” Syphilis.—In the great majority of cases syphilis does not injuriously affect the prospects after injury or the course of an operation. If the patient be rendered cachectic, or be the subject of visceral disease, he is placed in the same unfavourable category with those who are similarly affected from other causes. "Wounds during the progress of secondary syphilis more often heal well than show any evil tendency. Occasionally they become the seat of transient •syphilitic manifestations, and heal indifferently, or break down after a speedy closure. Such an event may occur without the appearance of any distinct syphilitic change in the part. The same may be said of operations performed late in syphilis or many years after its occurrence. They usually do well. In the minority of the cases, however, primary healing is not secured j or the wound heals, and