1104 niSEASJ^S OF JOINTS. tuberculous synovial disease and of bone disease of the knee joint. (See Fig. 455.) In tlie former the infection commencing in the subendothelial tissue IS almost certain very soon to affect eitlier the surface of the joint or the capsular structures. In the first case the movements of the articulation are early impaired, the patient being anxious to avoid the rubbing of the affected surfaces one over the other. He will, therefore, keep the joint fixed, though he may be able to bear his whole weight on it without pain. Moreover, he will place it in the attitude of greatest ease, namely, of slight flexion. The same may be said of that form of disease in which the infection progresses outwards through the capsule. Here the necessity of relaxino- the latter will be felt also, and this will be best secured by flexion!' In the case in which the surface is affected, there will also probably be a certain amount of effusion of synovium into the jouit with all the usual symptoms. (See page 1034.) The subjective symptoms will be pain on movement and slight tenderness, but probably no sense of heat in many cases. When the epiphysis of the femur or tibia is alone affected, there will be little or no alteration in the attitude of the limb, ina.smuch as the ligaments may be wholly unaffected, and consequently do not need relaxation. The movements again may be free in so far as the surfaces are not involved, and there will be no effusion for the same reason. On the other hand, the end of the affected bone will be thickened and tender, and when the weight of the body is thrown upon it, there will be decided pain. The same may be said of jars given to the limb in its long axis by blows with the hand on the heel and also of hyper-extension. Subjectively, a sense of heat and throbbing will probably be felt in the end of the bone, especially at night, and one or more especially tender spots may be felt over the epiphysial line. For those cases in which the disease starts under the encrusting cartilage, no sjDecial guiding symjjtoms can be given, and in most cases evidence of the surfaces being involved will soon be forthcoming. The treatment in all three forms is that already laid down for tuberculous joint disease wherever it occurs. It consists chiefly in absolute rest with counter-irritation in the early stages, combined with tonics, fresh air, and good food. The completest rest can be effectually obtained by the use of a Thomas’s knee splint (Fig. 454) or by a plaster-of-Paris case carried from the fold of the buttock to the sole of the foot. With either of these appliances, Avhich effectu- ally immobilise the joint, the patient can walk about, but will re- quire crutches for the last named and a thick-soled boot for the sound foot. For this reason, and from the fact that with a Thomas’s splint the knee not being covered in can be treated by external applications, the latter form of appliance is preferable to any, and the patient can walk about without crutches, resting the whole weight of his body upon the splint on the affected side, and on the sound side upon an iron patten screwed on to the sole of a strong boot.