948 INJUniWS OF JOINTS. twist of a joint stretching or rupturing the ligaments, and associated with intra-articular Inemorrhage, and much exudation of serous fluid about the joint and into its cavity. The tendon sheaths may be filled with blood or exudation, or the fibrous part of the sheath ruj)- tured, and the tendon displaced from its natural groove. Pathology.—The amount of damage done to a joint in a severe sprain varies. The ligaments being exceedingly strong, scales of bone may be torn away rather than the ligaments themselves be ruptured. Synovial folds may be stretched or torn. Any inflammatory out- growth of cartilage may be detached, forming a subsequent “ loose body ” in the joint. Surrounding tendons may be displaced from their grooves, or muscular fibres ruptured ; and in the knee, a severe sprain may be followed by a displacement or detachment of an articular cartilage. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of sprain being mainly negative, too great care cannot be exercised in giving an opinion as to the actual nature of the injury. If much swelling has supervened, additional caution is needful; for in such cases the best observer may over- look a fracture or dislocation. The presence or absence of bone lesion is a matter of the first importance. In children, separations of the epiphysis closely resemble sprains ; and should the surgeon suspect this injury, he may warn the relatives of the possibility of arrest of growth. Great care should be exercised in examining for displaced tendon. It is often difficult or impossible to know in what direction a limb has been twisted in a sprain. A useful hint will soon be given to the surgeon by the appearance of effused blood, which will extend along that side of the limb corre^bnding~to~the torn ligaments. The joint may then he placed in the most advantageous position for repair. Thus the foot may be everted in extravasation along the outer side of the leg. Treatment.—As in contusions of joints, rest, the application of splints, elevation, and the judicious use of cold by Leiter’s tubes or the ice-bag are efficacious in the early stages. Moderate com- pression by a Martin’s bandage or Gamgee tissue is highly recom- mended, but, in my experience, is seldom tolerated. The skin being sound, free leeching will be found to give great relief, when the inevitable heatT^elling, and congestion supervene. Should the effusion of blood and exudation into the joint be very excessive, the limb must be well elevated, and aspiration with a fine and perfectly clean needle and syringe may be adopted. This must not be looked upon, however, as a routine treatment. In the young and plethoric the diet should be low, and the bowels kept freely open with mercurials. In all sprains, so soon as the heat and excessive swelling have disappeared and the liga- ments united, massage and movement, combined with the hot douche, should be sediHmisl^c^Ied out, prevent the formation of adhe- sions. ^yould be employed for th^disabled_peri-art.icffi muscles, especially in the case of the shoulder.