27 PYOGENIC BACTERIA. found in acute absceases, but as yet there is little evidence that it has any marked pyogenic activity. The Llicrococcus pyogenes tenuis, which seldom takes the staphy- lococcus form, is somewhat larger than the Staphylococcus albus, and the elements are more distinctly divided into hemispheres than in any of the other forms. On agar-agar it grows as a narrow, thin, transparent, watery layer. Its relation to pus-formation has not yet been determined, although it has been found in the pus in several cases of abscess. 4. Streptococcus pyog:cnes.—At present there appears to be some confusion as to the organisms to be included under this heading, as no fewer than six organisms, to each of which a separate name has been assigned, have been described by different observers ; of tliese, however, three probably belong to one gi’oup, two to another’, whilst the last may be a separate species. It will be found, however, that they are almost identical as regards their microscopical and naked-eye appearances, and it is only when the products of these organisms and their relative pathogenicity are inquired into, that any distinctive characters are found. First group.—The first member of this group, the Streptococcus pyogenes (Plate I. Pig. 5 ; see also Pigs. 26, 27, 28, and 34) may be taken as the type; it is found wherever there is progressive erysipeloid suppuration, in very acute abscesses, and in certain cases of ulcerative endocarditis. (^See Art. VII.) The cocci, which vary very much in size—from Ap to ’8yu in diameter—are arranged in pairs or in chains of considerable length. In gelatine tube cultures there is an ex- ceedingly delicate growth on the surface, whilst in the depth, a number of very minute granules, more discrete and larger as we pass away from the surface, are seen; as the surface growth increases in size it also becomes thicker, the edges become wavy, and there is a peculiar, almost characteristic, terraced appearance. This organism grows slowly at the room temperature, and best at the temperature of the body ; it does not liquefy gelatine. It stains well by Gram’s method (page 51). It is pathogenic to both mice and rabbits. Streptococcus pyogenes malignus, which was separated from the necrotic foci of a leucaimic spleen by Pluegge, is similar to the form alieady desciibed, but it grows more slowly. A suppurating point appears at the seat of inoculation, and a few cocci may be found in the blood and in certain organs. It kills both rabbits and mice. Streptococcus septicus belongs to the same group. The micrococci form chains which break up into diplococci It grows comparatively slowly, and is fatal to mice and rabbits, killing them in from two to three days. In the case of rabbits injected through the aural vein there is first a local hypersemia, and then masses of the organ- isms collect in the vessels to such an extent that they form thrombi round which necrotic areas become well marked. ’ Here, then, is a group of organisms all of which have certain characters in common ; they prove fatal to mice as well as to rabbits in this diiTeiing from the next group. *