51 The Stainina: of Bacteria. Summary of the various stages in staining cover-glass preparations.—Spread out the fluid on the cover-glass, and allow it to di-y; draw the cover-glass three times through a flamo ; stain from one to three minutes in aqueous solutions of fuchsin, gentian violet, methylene blue, or Bismarck brown. Gentian violet gives good results, especially if carbolic acid, aniline water, or other reagents are employed to intensify its action. Loellier’s methylene blue and Gram’s method are also very suitable. Staining bacteria in sections.—Sections are transferred directly from absolute alcohol to the staining solution, Gentian violet is very suitable for most cases. As a rule, the same methods may be employed here as for cover-glass preparations with certain modifications: (1) Sections should be left for a longer time in the stain; (2) heat should be applied while the staining process is being carried on, either in an incubator or by warming over the flame of a spirit lamp until vapour begins to rise; (3) when the nuclei have lost their colour, or become indistinct during the decolorising process, they can be brought out again by means of a contrast stain, such as litluum carmine, picrooarmine, or Bismarck brown; (4) excessive decoloiisation during dehydration may be prevented by adding a small quantity of the stain employed to the alcohol—as a rule, however, this precaution is un- necessary, for if the sections have been well stained, a slight loss of colour is rather an advantage than otherwise; (5) clove oil should never be used for clearing the sections, as it dissolves out aniline dyes, and, to a certain extent, spoils the colour. Origanum oil is better, but xylol will be foimd best in most cases. Gram’s method.—Sections or cover-glasses should be kept in absolute alcohol from which they are transferred to Ehrlich-Weigert gentian violet solution (aniline water, 100 cc. ; concentrated alcoholic solution of gentian violet, 11 cc. ■ and absolute alcohol, 10 cc.), and left for one to thi'ee minutes (tubercle bacilli twelve to fourteen hours). Wash for two to three minutes in alcohol, and then put into a solution of ten parts iodine and twenty parts iodide of potassium in three thousand parts water, until the dark blue violet is replaced by a dark pm-ple red. Wash once or twice m alcohol, until most of the colour has disappeared; then clear up in oil of cloves, untd the whole of the colour is washed out from the sections, and mount in oalsam. Nuclei and tissues are stained yellow, and the micro-organisnis, if present deep blue or almost black. After the bleaching process the nuclei may be stained with eosm, vesuvm or Bismarck brown ; then wash in alcohol, and mount m balsam glycerme, or glycerine jelly. Amline water is prepared by adding five parts of aniline oil to one hundred parts of water; shake well eveiy half hour for tln*ee or foin hours, and decant the water, as the oil settles to the bottom, or take the milky fluid and filter it, the filter bemg thoroughly moistened with water, so that the imdissolved drops of antoe oil may be kept back; the fluid should come through quite clear and transparent. The commercial aniline is about half the ^nd'titoe^sCurbVX^^^ The diied cover-glass film is passed three times ia absolute alcohol ;^then it is rSed m chloroform for two minutes, washed in water, and put into a 5 per cent solution ^ chromic acid for half to two mmutes, after which it must be thoroughly washed Now place a drop of Ziehl s carbolic fuchsin on the cover-glass, and heat for one minute over the flame, until it just begins to boil; then wash off the solution and decolorise in 5 per cent, sulphuric acid. Wash thoroughly in water, and stain for a watery solution of methylene blue or malachite green- wash again, dry, and mount m Canada balsam. The spores are stained H.rrP , n;i j the protoplasm of the bacilli blue or green. ^ f /o)‘.;f«yef/rt.---Make a potato broth, composed of two parts cooked potato, mashed and boiled in ten parts of distilled water. Carefully stenhse and on this make a cultivation of the required orcanism A dron of tl,e diluted with from five to ten times ?ts volumo^of distilled watL-. If tL or^slL wiU