XVI. TUBERCULOSIS. By FEEDEEICK TEEVES, F.E.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, the London Hospital. Dsfinition.—Tuberculosis may be defined as an infective disease, in which the tissue changes are due to the action of a specific micro- organism—the tubercle bacillus. It may further be said that the tissue changes are in their general characteristics those of an inflammation of a low and usually chronic type, and that they are mai’ked by the production of minute structures, called “tubercles.” One distinctive feature of the in- flammatory changes depending upon tuberculous infection is the appearance of caseation. Examples of tuberculosis.—Tubercle in the lung produces phthisis; tubercle in the coverings of the brain, tuberculous meningitis; tubercle in the peritoneum, tuberculous peritonitis. Tuberculous ulcers are common in the mucous membrane of the bowel and bladder. The common skin aflfection, lupus, is due to tuberculosis of the skin. That very widespread affection of the lymphatic glands, usually known as scrofulous or strumous disease of glands, is a tuberciilous disorder. Tuberculous disease is common in the epididymis and testis. Tubercle often develops in bones and in synovial mem- branes, producing “ white swellings ” of a joint, caries of bone as illustrated by Pott’s disease of the spine, and such affections as tuberculous teno-synovitis. There is, indeed, hardly an organ or a tissue in the body which may not be invaded by tuberculosis. In certain organs it is comparatively uncommon; the most con- spicuous of these are the ovary, the pancreas, the thyroid body, and the muscles. The general features of the tuberculous process.—Speak- ing generally, the tuberculous process is slow and insidious. It is attended with the phenomena of inflammation, but these are often faint and subdued. The lesion may, and usually does, remain local. It has, however, a great tendency to extend locally, and slowly to infect the adjacent tissues. In Fig. 62 is shown an example of the deliberate and extensive spreading of a comparatively slight tuber- culous affection.