PYmiiA. 184 upon the urethra, prostate, or bladder, and have no especial gravity if they are early and unaccompanied with other signs of septic infection. The rigors which characterise ague or tropical fevers are also precipitated by operations, and might be a source of alarm if their origin w’ei’e unsuspected. The symptoms attending pycemic abscesses vary greatly. A rigor usually marks the occurrence of a fresh infarction or of a new purulent deposit. These may be painless, but as a rule they cause a sudden and acute stabbing pam. In the lungs this is accompanied with shortness of breath, the formation of an area of dulness, and the expectoration of blood-stained or rusty sputum ; in the liver by swelling of the organ and by jaundice ; in the spleen by enlargement; in the kidneys by albuminuria, sometimes by hsematuria, and by bacteria in the urine; in the eye by pain and blindness and increased tension ; in the brain by delirium, coma, and cerebral symptoms; in the heart by rapid and irregular action and endocardial murmurs. Abscesses which form in accessible positions appear with great rapidity, and are accom- panied with the usual signs, as are also empyema, pyo-pericardium, and suppurative peritonitis. The joint suppurations which compli- cate pyaemia simulate acute rheumatism. As several joiirts may be involved, and as they have all the clinical features of acute arthritis, the mistake is easily made. However, doubt can easily and safely be set at rest by aseptic puncture with an aspirator should the other clinical signs not point to a correct diagnosis. In some instances no local symptoms attend the filling of the joint with pus. In pytemia the patient's aspect betokens the gravity of the disease. The complexion is pale or jaundiced, the eyes are sunken, the cheeks are hollow, and the lips and tongue dry or covered with aphthae, ulcers, or sordes. Wasting of the tissues is rapid, and bed-sores soon form. The mind is full of apprehension and very despondent. Delirium is common. The bowels may be confined, but towards the end diarrhoea is not infrequent. The urine is scanty, dark-coloured, and of high specific gravity. The breath and exhalations are sup- posed to have a peculiar sweet odour in pyaemia. They merely smell the same as old cultures of pyogenic cocci. As we have already seen, the wound is, as a rule, in a state of acute septic inflammation. It is painful, throbbing, hot, swollen, red, with inflammation of the nearest lymphatic vessels and glands. The veins may be tender to the touch, hard, and plugged with clot. The discharges, the blood, and the urine should be examined bacterio- logically. The urine should be obtained fresh in a sterilised test-tube. A^little of it boiled with acetic acid gives a trace of albumen. Coyer- glass preparations of the sediment yield cocci or streptococci. I believe this to be an almost constant sign if properly sought for. The accompanying specimen was obtained from the urine of a youth whose leg was amputated for a machine accident (Fig. 34). He also had streptococci in the pus in his joints (Fig. 31). Recent investigations (Sherrington) tend to show that the