VI. SYNCOPE AND SHOCK By W. WATSON CHEYNE, F.R.S., F.E.C.S., Surgeon to King’s College Hospital; Professor of Surgery at King’s College. Syncops. — Syncope and shock must be carefiiUy separated from each other. The actual state of syncope is preceded, when the patient is conscious, by yawning, singing in the ears, vertigo, extreme pallor, nausea and even vomiting, and imperfect vision; but the same condition may appear during the course of an opera- tion, while the patient is unconscious, without, of course, the above premonitory signs, except, perhaps, the vomiting. It is not at all uncommon for a patient during an operation to become pale, with a weak or imperceptible pulse, and very superficial or scarcely per- ceptible breathing, the condition being temporary, and often ending in an attack of sickness. This more especially arises when the patient is not profoundly under the anaesthetic, and passes off after the sickness, or when complete anaesthesia is again induced. Where the state of syncope is complete the face is pale, the pulse is irre- gular and extremely feeble or imperceptible, the respiration is veiy superficial, or momentarily arrested, and the patient is totally un- conscious. This condition may last for a few seconds, and then recovery takes place, the first symptoms being sighing, gasping, often sickness, gradual improvement of the pulse, and return of consciousness. In extreme cases, however, syncope may end in immediate death. The symptoms are essentially due to anaemia of the brain. Syncope may occur without any injury, as the result of disagree- able mental impressions, or it may follow sudden loss of blood, being in relation not so much with the quantity lost as with the suddenness with which it is shed. Or it may not be dependent upon actual bleeding, but upon a sudden accumulation of blood in one part of the body, as may occur, for example, after too rapid with- drawal of ascitic fluid from the abdominal cavity. Or again, it may follow severe pain or injury to some part richly supplied with nerves, as after a blow over the region of the semilunar gangba. The symptoms being essentially due to anemia of the brain, the first element in the treatvient is to lower the head, so as to favour the flow of blood to the brain, and then to improve the action of