30 SURGIGAL BAGTKKIOhOGY. Bacteria associated with croupous pneumonia.—The organism which is most frequently met with in cases of pneumonia gives rise also to certain forms of septicsemia and meningitis ; it lias been found also in acute abscesses, in ulcerative endocarditis and in otitis media. It is now recognised that Friedlander's bacillus plays a comparatively unimportant part in the production of pneumonia, and no causal relation between it and surgical diseases has yet been ti'aced; but a similar organism (Plate II. Fig. 9), the Micrococcus pneumonice crouposcs, the Bacillus salivarius septicus, or the Strepto- coccus lanceolatus Pasteuri (Sternberg), is of greater surgical im- portance. This organism has been found both in the rusty sputum of cases of croupous pneumonia, and in the saliva of apparently healthy iirdividuals, sometimes appearing there for a short time only, but m others remaining almost permanently. It has also been found, alone or accompanied by the Streptococcus pyogenes, in many cases of purulent cerebro-spinal meningitis, in acute abscesses in the parotid, and in cases of purulent pleurisy, in abscess of the tonsil, in otitis media, and in cases of arthritis of the wrist and shoulder-joint following pneumonia. It occurs as a somewhat ovoid or grain-shaped organism sur- rounded by an unstained area, arranged in pairs or in short chains. It is stained by Gram’s method, thus differing from Friedlander’s bacillus, from which the colour is discharged by the iodine solution. {See page 51.) The Bacillus lanceolatus is said to grow only in alkaluie media, whilst the Bacillus salivarius septicus grows most luxuriantly in a medium to which -05 per cent, hydrochloric acid, or an equivalent quantity of nitric or phosphoric acid, has been added. This latter organism will grow in meat infusions, giving rise to a slight milky opacity; after a time the multiplication stops and the organisms settle at the bottom, to foi-m a dense precipitate, the supernatant fluid becoming clear. It may also be cultivated on gelatine, which it does not liquefy, small white colonies developing along the track of the puncture ; at the surface it forms a fine white mass, somewhat transparent at the edges. On nutrient agar-agar or coagulated blood serum the growth appears in the form of small transparent drops, some of which run together to form a thin line along the track of the needle ; there is no growth upon potato; in milk, acid is formed, the casein becoming coagulated. The organism is very delicate, and soon dies out unless ciiltures are made every three or four days ; it is very susceptible to the action of most disinfectants. It is highly pathogenic for mice and rabbits, but guineapigs are not so uniformly affected. The two former animals succumb dining the first or second day; there is local pus-formation accompanied by a diffused cellulitis with marked oedema, the fluid from which and the blood both contain numerous micrococci. The passage of this organism through a series of animals invariably increi^es its virulence. The experiments on the production of immunity wit i filtered cultures of the micrococcus have given very conflicting results, and must be repeated before they can be accepted.