72t INJUBIES OF BONES. Age.—Using some 8,500 cases from different institutioms, Bruns finds tliat the frequency-curve rises in the first, second, and third decennia, then falls steadily—reaching in the fifth the level of the first. In the ninth period nineteen times fewer fractures occur than in the first. But, in proportion to the number living in each period, the maximum number of fractures occurs between 30 and 40, the minimum between 0 and 10; and old people (70 to 50) are more liable to fractures than young (0 to 20). Seat in relation to age.—Among children, fractures of both bones of the fore-arm, of the radius alone, of the lower epiphysis of the humerus and of the collar bone are most frequent; in the lower extremity, fracture of the shaft of the femur is most common. Among adults fractures of limbs are frequent, those of the upper being only slightly more common than those of the lower; to these are added fractures of the skull and bones of the trunk—especially of the ribs—while fractures of the patella reach in adults their highest point. In old age fractures of the lower extremity become specially frequent; that of the neck of the femur gaining an absolute majority in patients over 80 years of age. Fractures of the ribs, of the upper ends of the humerus, and of the radius are also frequent. Sex.—Bruns, from 3,742 cases, finds that males are to females as 3'8 to 1. But as there are more females tlian males living in each decennium after the first, the correct proportion is M : F: : 4-5 :1. Speaking of the absolute numbers of fractures occurring, and not allowing for the numbers living at each period, about twice as many fractures occur among males up to 20, about eight times as many from 20 to 50, about twice as many from 50 to 70, after which age about three times as many fractures occur among women as among men (women are in excess by 14 per cent.). Season has not a very marked effect upon the total number of fractures occurring; each season has its special dangers connected with its special exercises and occupations. The inffuence of season is least marked in adults; children suffer most in summer, old people in winter. Occupations naturally have a marked effect in rendering those pursuing them more or less liable to fractures; but extended statistics of different trades are wanting. THE GENEEAL iETIOLOGY OF FRACTURES. Predisposing causes.—These either tend to weaken certain or all bones, or they bring about exceptional exposure of the bones to injury. The inffuence which age, sex, season, and occupation have upon fractures has just been pointed out. It is obvious that the position, form, strength, and elasticity of a bone are most important. Lastly, there are many pathological conditions which diminish the strength of bones. Piiysiolo^i<;:il coiidilioiis. (1) Position.—A limb bone, situate in an outlying part, used instinctively to protect the central