mFLAMMATION. 74 diseased part. Experiments have undoubtedly shown that where the skin is severely irritated, the vascularity of certain parts beneath, which are in some sort of special nervous relation to the irritated part of the skin, is diminished. Thus it has been found that, where the skin over one side of the chest has been severely blistered, on making a transverse section of the thoracic cavity the lung on that side is distinctly anaemic as compared with the lung on the opposite side. • -a x Whatever the explanation of the action of the counter-irritant may be, it nevertheless remains as a clinical fact that this kind^ of treatment is of great value in many cases of chronic inflammation. The counter-irritants usually employed produce various degrees of action on the skin. The mildest counter-irritant is a poultice, but in the treatment of chronic inflammation, the counter-irritation produced by a poultice, whether of linseed or mustard, is seldom eflS.- cacious. Nevertheless, in certain cases of chronic mastitis the con- tinued application of poultices over the inflamed, breast mil some- times apparently hasten the disappearance of the inflammation. The forms of counter-irritants now most usually employed are in order of efficiency—the actual cautery, blisters, and iodine. Informer times other methods were used, such as tartar-emetic ointment or croton oil (applied to the skin), the employment of the seton or ot the moxa: but nowadays these forms of counter-irritation are ioi the most part discarded, and reliance is placed on the three to which I have referred. Of these, the least efficacious is iodine, which, indeed, unless in superficial infiammations, does not as a rule seem to exercise any action. It is a substance which is very common y employed in chronically enlarged glands in the neck ; but, beyo diverting the attention of the patient and his friends, it does not seem to possess any real salutary effect. . £ -ur + c Much more effectual than iodine is the employment of blisteis or blistering fluid ; and undoubtedly a considerable number of cases of chronic inflammation-especially those dependent on oonstitu^ conditions-are improved by the use of this remedy. In blister n the skin for chronic inflammation, the blister should not be applied diectly over the inflamed area, unless, indeed, the inflammation be deep-seMed. It should be placed a little away from it, but over the area of nerves which are in direct relation to those wffiich run to the inflamed part. That there is a distinct distribution of nerves in certain parts of the skin ^eir ^ b Hon to deeper organs has been very well shown by Di. Heaci in ms papers on this subject, more especially by the observations which he has ma^de as to the relation of attacks of herpes zoster to disease of deeper- seated organs. Where the chronically inflamed part the skin the application of a blister over it is very apt to ”)cieas xv, nt the seat of the inflammation, and thus, it used whiirthe disease be advancing, the treatment may lead to ™ore • 1 AVhere however, the inflammation has passed oft, oi SrX^rne srand ’i: thke is still . considerable amount of