CONSTITUTIONAL TREATMENT OF UAlMORRHAGE. 527 Tlic food of tliese i)atients should bo warm fluid, given in small miantities frequently ; hot water, hot water and milk in equal narts and beef-tea are the most suitable. As recovery progresses the diet inust be improved, farinaceous foods, white fish chicken, and meat beino- oradually added. Constipation will probably be troublesome, and isliest combated by a daily enema, or by a pill containing iron aloes and mix vomica. If sleeplessness and restlessness are marked features, bromidla in 5SS doses two or three times a day will be found serviceable. . ■ t (5) For the rcsultiu|j; auaiinia,, the mam indications are pro- longed rest, a carefully-regulated, light, nutritious diet, residence at the seaside or in moorland air, with as much sunshine as pos- sible, thorough ventilation of the rooms both by night and by day, and such tonics as the milder preparations of iron, arsenic, cod- liver oil, quinine, and mix vomica. A sea voyage is often beneficial. When, in spite of the arrest of the bleeding and the treatment above described, the patient gets worse, his pulse weaker, and the syncope more marked, stiinulauts may be given. Subcutaneous in- jection of ether (iqxx to ll^xxx for a dose) is the best, because the most rapid in its action, and it may be repeated at short intervals. Other good means are a sinapism over the heart, brandy and hot water by mouth, by enema, or rubbed on the tongue and lips. An ounce of brandy or other spirit in two or three ounces of hot water may be thrown into the bowel,* and "is more efficacious than pure spirit : for the heat is a stimulant, and the water may be absorbed and add to the fulness of the vessels. Where hsemorrhage is still continuing, stimulants can only do harm by increasing the rapidity of the flow. Where open vessels are closed by blood-clot only—not a ligature, suture, or by torsion—stimulants may excite fresh bleeding by dis- placing the clots. Their use, therefore, requires great care and discrimination. In cases where death is threatened from extreme loss of blood, transfusion should be practised. Transfusion and saline injection.—Where life is endangered by a severe hsemorrhage, the most valuable means of averting death is the injection of suitable fluid into a vein. At first it was thought necessary to inject blood; then it was shown that defibrinated blood was as good; and lately a saline solution has been shown to be as effective in its immediate results as blood, and far safer and simpler to use. A certain degree of arterial tension is essential to the carrying on of the circulation, and when the vessels have been emptied beyond a given point, the heart’s action is entirely in- effective ; any innocuous fluid which will then restore the adequate arterial tension enables the heart to act and the circulation to proceed. When pure blood is used—immediate transfusion—great care must be taken not to introduce any coagulum, which would form an embolism, and might cause instant death. Roussel’s apparatus is very ingenious, and successful in the inventor’s hands, but it requires considerable practice to use it properly. Aveling’s apparatus is the