ANEURYSM. 538 thrill and jiulsation in the veins, and by the peculiar character and intensity of the bruit that is developed. Treatment.—Varicose aneurysm should, whenever possible, be submitted to active treatment for the cure of the aneurysm. To leave it alone, or to be content with merely protecting the part by a supporting bandage, is to expose the patient to all the dangers of an untreated aneurysm. The most successful form of compression has been digital pressure of the artery on the proximal side, combined with local pressxu’e over the communication between the aneurysm and the vein. Wherever it can be carried out, this plan should be tried. If it fails, or if the case is urgent from rapid extension of the aneurysm, the sac should be excised and all the vessels communi- cating with it carefully tied. To do this, the limb should be rendered bloodless by Esmarch’s bandage and a tourniquet. The dilated vein is first exposed and a double ligature placed upon it. The sac of the aneurysm is then carefully cleared and traced down to the artery with which it communicates; a double ligature is placed on this vessel and the sac removed. The Hunterian operation has succeeded in these cases, but the “old ” operation is to be prefei’red wherever it can be carried out satisfactorily. ANEURYSMS OF PARTICULAR ARTERIES. Having considered the pathological and clinical features of aneu- rysms in general, without regard to locality, we must now study them from a local point of view, and tiy to notice the special features of aneurysms as they occur in connection with particular arteries. Aneurysm of the thoracic aorta.—The aorta is the most frequent seat of aneurysm, and the disease is met with in every part of the vessel, but most often in the arch, particularly on the right side of the ascending portion, and least often in the abdominal aorta. All the forms of spontaneous aneurysm are met with in the aorta. Fusiform aneurysm is very common, and the enlarged artery may reach a great size. Sacculated aneurysm occurs without any dilata- tion of the entire circumference of the artery, but more often as a pouch or sac projecting from a fusiform aneurysm; and it is these cases that attain the greatest size, and also, as a rule, give rise to the most marked symptoms. A sacculated aneurysm close above the valves is a very dangerous form, owing to its great liability to rupture into the pericardium or heart. Dissecting aneurysm occurs more often in the aorta than elsewhere, but is so rare as to be a pathological curiosity. The signs of aortic aneurysm vary considerably, for the tumour may involve any part of the vessel, and grow in any direc- tion, and the symptoms and whole course of the disease largely depend upon this factor. The whole artery is so deeply placed that an aneurysm of it may form no obvious tumour, and although the vessel is in relation with many most important parts, it may be so placed as to avoid injurious pressure on any of them. It therefore happens