tee TUBEEOULOUS INEIVIDUAL. 357 The skin is clear, white, and thin, and marbled with venules. The complexion is usually fair. The face is oval, the lower jaw small, and the lips thin. The eyes are bright and covered with long lashes, and the hair is often remarkably fine and silken. In the younger children there is not infrequently a faint growth of downy hair over the forehead and on the backs of the fore-arms. The teeth are, as a rule, white and well formed, but brittle. Not infrequently they are notice- able by the large size and square outline of the upper central incisors. These children are sprightly and emotional; full of life and, from the modern standpoint, would be called neurotic. This is the type which is inherited. These are the child- ren whose parents have died of phthisis, or who have a strong tuberculous history in their families. They are born with a predisposition, and are congenitally a favourable soil for the bacillus. These are the children who may develop phthisis, tuber- culous meningitis, or perito- nitis. They often have enlarged tonsils, post-nasal growths, and enlarged glands. They are liable to catarrh. They occasionally present lupus. They are attacked with tuberculous bone and joint disease, but not with marked frequency. Phlyctenular ophthalmia is not common among them, nor are skin affections. 2. The coarse or plilegmatic type.—In this class are com- prised individuals who are, as a rule, short and bulky, with coarse limbs, large hands and feet. The face is broad, the lower jaw heavy, the malar bones often prominent, and the features generally coarse and irregular (Fig. 69). The nose is usually thick, the lips tumid, the lobes of the ears large, and the neck unshapely. The teeth are often ill-formed, and soon become carious. The skin is coarse, harsh, and thick. The amount of subcutaneous cellular tissue is considerable, and often sufficient to conceal the muscular outlines of the body. The skin in the previous type is fine, and it is possible to pinch up with the fingers a little portion of it; but in these individuals none but a large fold of skin can be picked up, as it is so coarse. The children of this class appear dull, flabby, and heavy-looking. They are apathetic and without vivacity, have little muscular power, and are soon tired. Their circulation is remarkable. The blood appears to stagnate in exposed parts, the cheeks often assume a bluish or mottled aspect, Fig. 69.—The Coarse Type of Tuberculous Individual.