321 tjenia eghinooooous. the best treatment. Where complete excision is impossible the shLm spoon gives good results and the two methods may often be c5n wSd The affected tissue readily scrapes away, but care St be taken with the firm peripheral portions. Scraping opera- Sonrmay be followed by slight local relapses which must be treated in the same manner; the wound may be painted with a Itvon^ carbolic acid solution. The course of the disease is ^nd to be checked by the administration of iodide of potassium (Ransome, Thomassen, Nocard, Meunier, Netter). Eefeeences. Bostrom: Ziegler’s Beitra^zur Path, ^at., vol. is., 1891, p. 1. K. Partsch: Samml. klin.vortrage, 306-7. Bansome W. H. : Medioo-Chirurgical Transachons, vol. Ixxv., 189-, p. 63. Eansome, W. B.: Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. Ixxv., 1892, p. 85. Anderson, A. B.: Medico-Chirurgical Tr^sactions, vol. Ixxv ,189^, p. 103. Powell and Godlee: Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. Ixsu., 1889, p. l/o. IX. T.S1NIA ECHINOCOCCUS. jEtiology. A cestode worm normally inhabiting the intestine of the doo’, the ova of which when ingested by man, who serves as an intermediate host, develop into the so-called bladdei stage, producing hydatid cysts. _ , ■ i. . i j Hydatid disease is met with in all countries m which the dog has his habitat, but it is especially frequent in Iceland, Silesia, and Australia, and is by no means rare in Great Britain. The parasite has been discovered in wolves, jackals, and a cat found in Brazil, and may possibly infest other animals. The worm itself is about a quarter of an inch in length, and made up of four segments; of these, the first is the head, about of an inch in width, furnished with four pairs of suckers, ^ and a central rostellum crowned with a double circlet of booklets, thirty to forty in number. The second joint is insignificant; the third about twice the length of the second; while the fourth (proglottis) con- tains the double sexual organs, a marginal reproductive papilla, and a large number of eggs, amounting to from 500 to 4,000. Thousands of these worms may exist in the intestine of the dog, more or less completely hidden by the villi. Oxen, sheep, and swine are far oftener the intermediate hosts of the parasite than man, and these animals, probably in great measure, keep up the supply of fresh scolices for the further propagation of the disease in the dog. Sheep dogs and those kept for sporting purposes are specially liable to be affected ; and persons whose occupation, as is the case with shepherds, bring them into constant and close association with these animals, are the most frequent sufferers from the disease. Hydatid cysts may be single or multiple; their increase is usually slow, but the rate may be variable; in some cases they may exist for a whole life-time. They are most common between the ages of twenty and forty, are commoner in women than men, and com- paratively rare in children. L