57 EXUDATION. in the blood plasma. The passage of the blood corpuscles—more especially the white corpuscles—out of the blood-vessels during the eai-ly stage of inflammation, was demonstrated experimentally and attributed to their power of amoeboid movement even before their migration had been actually observed. I may mention one or two of these observations. For example, if the centre of a frog’s cornea be touched with a fine point of nitrate of silver, it will be noticed that some hours afterwards a delicate, cloudy ring has formed around the margin of the cornea, and if the injury done have been considerable, this ring—which on microscopical examination is found to consist of cells resembling leuco- cytes—gradually ap- proaches the injured part, and the whole cornea becomes cloudy. The conclu- sion, therefore, is not that these cells have been derived from multiplication of the corneal corpuscles— in which case they would not necessarily appear in the first instance quite at the margin — but that they are actually leucocytes which have passed out of the conjunctival Fig. 8.—Section of Granulation Tissne from a suppurating Ulcer, blood-vesspls nt t.Tip ^ wlnte blood corpuscle is seen in tbe act of pass- . ^ne mg through the wall of a blood-vessel, margin of the cornea, and, therefore, accumulate in the first instance in largest numbers at that part. Further evidence of this is obtained by injecting finely- powdered cinnabar, in the first instance, into the dorsal lymph sac of the frog, and then, after some hours have elapsed, cauterising the cornea in the manner just mentioned. When cinnabar is injected into the lymph sac, the lymph corpuscles, which are present there in large numbers, take up the particles into their interior by virtue of their amoeboid power, and can then be afterwards recognised by t e presence of these particles in them. Now in this experiment it has been found that among the cells which appear around the corneal margin are some which contain particles of cinnabar, and which therefore must have come from the lymph sac, and consequently liave passed through^ the walls of the blood-vessels. Lastly, if the cinnabar be injected into the blood stream instead of into the lymph sac, and the experiment be performed as before, it is found that the