PYrnilA. 176 Pyaemia sometimes occurs when the external appearances of the wound are quite favourable. But I have never seen a case of this kind in which there was not a septic focus in the depths of the wound, with evidence of septic phlebitis or of osteomyelitis. In the secretions of wounds that are complicated with pyaemia, bacteria of various kinds can easily be seen in cover-glass preparai- tions, and their different kinds can be ascertained and separated by plate cultures. If the secretions of the wound contain nothing but the ordinary pyogenic cocci they are almost odourless, but very often bacilli (the various kinds of Proteus of Hauser) are likewise present, and produce stinking substances. In a case that died of pysemia after inteimal urethro- tomy, the writer found bacilli and cocci in the wound, which was ex- ceedingly putrid, but only streptococci in the secondary abscesses. In another case of pysemia following internal ure- throtomy, Dr. Prudden found Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus in the blood and internal or- gans. The presence of other bacteria along with the pyogenic cocci in cases of pysemia helps to explain anomalous varieties which are met with clinically, and which have been called septico-pysemia or pyo-septhsemia (Gussenbauer). In the lymph and amongst the pus corpuscles which cover the surface of such septic wounds are various kinds of micrococci. In the specimen shown in Pig. 30, cocci, diplococci, staphylococci, and streptococci could all be discerned, as well as numerous bacilli The patient died of pysemia after amputation of the breast. The tissues around the wound when microscopically examined are oedematous and hypersemic, and infiltrated with purulent materials. 2. The condition of the vessels. — The lymph paths in the vicinity of the lesion are choked with pus corpuscles, amongst which are many bacteria, especially streptococci. It is easy to understand that chains of cocci are more adapted to pass along narrow lymph paths tlian the more bulky masses of staphylococci. Tlie lymphatics, however, are not the main channel by which the cocci invade the blood. As is well known, the lymphatic glands act as filters and prevent their onward progress. The veim, on the otlier hand, play a most important part in pysemia, and ai-a Fig. 30.—Section of the Tissues of a Wound which caused Pysemia. (From a micro-photograph by Mr. Cosens.)