79:3 CAUSES OF DEFECTIVE UNION. are so common, that they must often coincide without evil result. Scurvy in former clays was looked U2)0n as a cause of delayed union'or of absorption of young callus, bevero rickets often delays union. Chronic Bright’s disease and diabetes have also been re- garded in this light. Defective innervation is an alleged cause. Ataxic fractures may unite feebly or not at all. Bognaud collected si.x cases of paraplegia from fracture at or below the twelfth dorsal v'crtebra, in which fractures of the leg bones failed to unite; when tlie spinal lesion was higher, he found that union occurred. But objection may be taken to most, if not to all, of his cases of non- union Many cases of good union in paralysed limbs may be adduced, and callus formation is found to proceed better in limbs of animals paralysed by section of their nerves than in normal limbs. In a larger number of cases of pseudaithrosis, excellent health has been noted, rendering it likely that JocaJ causes were to blame. This becomes almost certain when in multiple fractures all but one have united ; or when one of two parallel bones fails to unite. From a collection of 400 cases, Bruns finds the following to have been conditions unfavourable to union :—Great obliquity, with which intervention of some tissue is likely, occurred frequently ; commi- nution and double fracture comparatively rarely. Gomyound fractures yielded proportionately twice as many pseudarthroses as simple; yrimary resection of fragments or removal of splinters, especially in the aged, pi-edisposed to non-union, which was j>ar- ticularly frequent after removal of part of one of two parallel bones. Extensive necrosis of the fragments sometimes prevented union, as also, in the great majority of cases, did abscess of bone, hydatids, and malignant new growths. Marked dislocation, sejiarating the broken surfaces, was a frequent cause. Intervention of muscle, tendon, capsule, splinter, e\’en nerve between the fragments, is regarded by Bruns as frequent and as an absolute hindrance to union. Gurlt thought that tissues so caught would atrophy rapidly; but Bruns says that in many cases a bundle of more or less wasted tissue has been found after one to ten years. The large number of cases occurring among sailors on the high seas, suggests strongly that imperfect treatment allowing excessive mobility is a great cause, a view which is supported by the fact that by daily movements kept up for forty days or longer, permanent false joints have been estab- lished in animals. Defective blood supply due to immediate and absolute immobilisation and compi’ession by plaster may be respon • sible now and again for non-union; and the local use of cold may similarly have exercised a ^prejudicial effect ujDon callus formation. Ligature of the main artery of the part for arterial hsematoma seems to have delayed union a few weeks in some cases—not in the majority. Gueretin, Curling, and others have endeavoured to show that fractures causing rupture of the nutrient artery of the shaft were specially liable to pseudarthrosis; but Gurlt’s criticism of the view after examination of many of the specimens adduced in favour of it, strongly supports those who regard such a result as a priori