6J5 CAROTID ANEURYSM. the cliflerent cases. Pressure on the left recurrent laryngeal nerve would distinguish an aortic aneurysm from one situated on the right vessels; pressure on the right nerve in a like -manner excludes an aortic aneurysm. Pressure on the left innominate vein indicate.s aortic aneurysm rather than innominate; compression of the internal jugular or subclavian vein only, points to carotid or subclavian aneurysm. A “ tracheal tug ” indicates an aneurysm of the aorta. (5) The pulse in the branches of the great arteries is, perhaps, tlie most useful sign of all. Where the pulse in the tAvo radia’ arteries is exactly similar, it shows that the aneurysm is aortic, either on the proximal side of the innominate artery or the distal side of the left subclavian : the sphygmograph may show the dicrotic wave and percussion stroke lost. If, however, the left radial pulse is “ aneurysmal and the right is normal, it points to an aneurysm either of the transverse part of the arch beyond the origin of the in- nominate trunk, or of the left subclavian artery, and the condition of the pulse in the branches of the left carotid artery will determine this point. When the right radial and carotid pulses are aneu- rysmal, and the left are normal, it indicates an innominate aneuiy.sm; Avhere, of these, only one is aneurysmal, it shows an aneurysm of the corresponding branch. It must be carefully remembered that the pulse may be lost in an artery by the sac of an aneurysm of a neigld'iouring trunk compressing it, or occluding it by displacement or by a plug of clot. The special aneurysmal pulse, and not the loss of pulsation, is the guide to diagnosis. Aneurysms of the carotid arteries.—Aneurysm of the common carotid artery is nearly always “spontaneous” in origin, for wounds of the artery are generally fatal—those that are recovered from are frequently associated Avith Avound of the jugular vein. It occurs more commonly in Avomen than any other external aneurysm. The favomite seat of the aneurysm is at the bifurcation of the trunk and the next most frequent spot is at the origin of the right artery: the thoracic portion of the left artery appears to be exempt. Symptoms.—Commencing as a small tumour, the aneurysm may grow very sloAvly, and remain unaltered for years, or it may more quickly attain a large size and fill up the neck from the chin to the sternum. In addition to the usual signs of aneurysm, there may be great dyspnoea Avith frequent spasmodic cough, which may end in aspliyxia, hoarseness and loss of voice, dysphagia, tinnitus aurum, dimness or loss of sight, contracted pupil, giddiness, stupor, hyper- sesthesia of the scalp, and a sense of pulsation referred to the Avhole of the same side of the head. These symptoms are the result of pressure upon the larynx, trachea, pharjmx, oesophagus, recurrent larnygeal and sympathetic nerves, or of interference with the cir- culation in the brain. Spontaneous cure has been kncAAm to occur; more often the aneurysm ruptures externally or into the trachea, larynx, or oesophagus, Avith rapidly fatal haemorrhage. Cerebral embolism is another danger.