KNEE JOINT DISEASE. 1101 condition has so lowered tiie nutrition of all the tissues that repair is usually very imperfect. . „ , Simple subacute synovitis.—In this form the same symptom.s will be present in a modified degree. The same treatment, carried out in a less active way, is suitable. But even these cases of subacute synovitis, if septic, are best treated by early incision and drainage, and are thus saved in many cases from adhesions and stiffness, which would seriously interfere with the functions of the joint if the incision were delayed. Simple chronic synovitis, independent of tubercle, and except as the outcome of acute attacks, is a comparatively rare disease. It usually appears in one of two forms. Either there is a chronic hyper-secretion into the joint, unaccompanied by thickening of the capsular structui’es, or the latter is present without much effusion. The first form is due to chronic congestion of the synovial membrane, destroying the balance between secretion and absorption, and laige quantities of fluid are poured out into the joint, distending the lateral pouches and to all appearances thinning them. This hychyps articuli, as it is sometimes called, produces great weakness, but little pain. If left unrelieved long, it stretches the capsule and the ligaments, and the whole joint is thus rendered insecure. The ti’catmeiit in milder cases consists in free blistering of the joint at either side, with immobibsation. After the blisters have healed, the part should be firmly bandaged during the day and massaged morning and evening. When the fluid has been removed by these means, an elastic knee-cap should be worn continuously for some months. There is in some of these cases unfortunately a great tendency to reaccumulation of fluid in the joint as soon as patients begin to use the limb. In such cases blistering may fail to remove it permanently, and it may be necessary to aspirate the joint repeatedly. This is certainly better than to allow the continuous distension to weaken the whole apparatus of the ligaments and cap- sule. But this, again, may fail, and then it is well to combine the aspirations with washing-out of the joint with some antiseptic and at the same time stimulating fluid. For this purpose a lotion of perchloricle of mercury 1 to 1,000 may be used, or tmctura iodi 5j to the pint of sterihsed water, or carbolic lotion 1 to 20. With this treatment many cases are cured after the other simpler modes of treatment have failed. Stubborn forms of hydrops articuli.—But there is a form of dropsy of the joint which is particularly stubborn, which is com- bined with a peculiar hypertrophy of the synovial fringes, giving to them the appearance of polypoid masses. There can be no doubt that in some cases the cause of this change is tuberculous irritation, and that the most marked examples are due to this cause. But it is also equally certain that a hyperplasia of the synovial fringes, leading to the formation of pendulous folds, may occur quite independently of tuberculous irritation as far as the evi- dence to be obtained from the microscope goes. Wliat the exact (i Hj