DISLOCATIONS. 982 I, /' carried backwards, is prominent, and always draws the olecranon upwards. The median and ulnar nerves may be stretched or con- tused. In some cases the coronoid process is fractured, and then the dislocation tends to reproduce itself. The head of the radius maintains its connection with the ulna. Dislocation backwards may be complete or incomplete. Symptoms.—The fore-arm is fixed, slightly flexed, shortened ; and any movement of it is exceedingly painluh The characteristic sign is the marked projection posteriorly of the olecranon and triceps tendon (Dig. 392). The head of the radius, too, may be felt projecting behind the external condyle. There is a marked broad prominence anteriorly, caused by the lower end of the humerus. The relations between the condyles and olecranon are altered, and the condyles do not move with the displaced olecranon. This test is of Antal importance as distinguishing dislocation backAvards from separa- tion of the epiphysis in the young, or transverse fracture in the adult. The hand and fore-arm are generally held jnidAvay between pronation. and supination. On I’eduction, the parts regain their normal form Avith a “snap,” and remain there, unless fracture of the coronoid co- exists. In a trans- verse fracture with displace- ment backwards crepitus is de- tected, and the deformity repro- duces itself on relaxing extension. Measurement from the external condyle to the olecranon shoAVS no'aTEeration in transverse fracture of the loAver end~bFtIIeliuruerus. In dislocation the distance, as compared Avith the sound side, is altered. Separation of the lower epiphysis of the humerus in young children simulates this dislocation Amry closely, and the mobility or otherwise of the condyles must be most carefully ascertained by examination under an ancesthetic. 2 and 3. L.ateral disSocatioais of the radius and ulna from the humerus. Causation and morbid anatomy.—These accidents are produced by falls upon the outstretclied hand, or upon the elbow; by bloAvs, or twisting movements of machinery. Tliey are practically always incomplete, and the dislocation outwards is by far the more common (Fig. 393). The sigmoid cavity of the ulna grasps the radial articulating surface of the external condyle, and the head of the radius is still more external, and quite clear of the humerus. In the incomplete dislocation iiiAvards the sigmoid cavity impinges upon the internal condyle, above it or beloAv it, Avhile the Fig. 392.—Appearance in Dislocation of the Elbow backwards.