118 ULCERATION. because the presence of hairs is very apt to interfere with the proper healing of the graft. The skin is most conveniently taken from the front or sides of the thigh, but of course it may be taken from any part of the body which is healthy and suitable. The skin of the part is put on the stretch vertically by the assistant, and transversely by the surgeon grasping the limb, and the surface should be made as flat as possible. A bi’oad razor is then taken, which is always kept wet with boracic lotion, otherwise the graft is very apt to tear, and strips composed of half the thickness of the skin, as broad and as long as possible, are cut. While the various strips are being prepared, those already cut should be left on the part bathed in the blood which exudes from the cut surface. As soon as the bleeding from the ulcer has stopped, these strips are transferred to the surface of the sore, and are very readily spread out by means of a couple of probes, care being, of course, taken that the deeper surface of the graft is placed next to the surface of the sore. These grafts should be applied close together; in fact, their edges should overlap, and they should also overlap the edge of the skin, and in this way the whole surface of the ulcer is entirely covered with grafts. When this is completed, narrow strips of protective disinfected in the first instance in carbolic lotion, and subsequently washed in weak sublimate or boracic lotion, should be pressed firmly over the surface of the grafts, so as to expel any air or blood which may have collected beneath during the process of skin-grafting; and the whole surface is then covered with a layer of protective, outside which a mass of cyanide gauze or other antiseptic dressing is applied. In the first instance, this dressing should be left on for at least five days, by which time the grafts will have sufficiently adhered to Avith- stand the washing with the lotion. Subsequent dressings must be carried out at necessary intervals, and after a week or ten days, when the grafts have firmly adhered, I generally give up the moist dressing for some antiseptic ointment, such as weak boracic ointment. As regards the part from which the grafts have been taken, it may be dressed at once with weak boracic ointment and boracic lint outside, or the protective and boracic lint dressing just described may be employed. These parts generally heal without any difficulty what- ever and with great rapidity, and it is possible after a time to utilise the same place for subsequent skin grafts. The third method of skin grafting consists in the employment of the whole thickness of the skin, but the results obtained by this method are not nearly so satisfactory as those got by Thiersch s plan. In the first place a very large amount of skin is requisite to cover a comparatively small sore; on account of the contraction of the skii^ it is also necessary to cut the original strip into small pieces, and even then one is very apt to find that the central portion of the gra sloughs, no doubt because the skin curls up and this central part is not kept in contact with the raw surface. . - , i i j Whichever method of grafting is employed, the patient should be kept in the recumbent position for a long time. In the case ot