335 BILEARZIA EyEMATOBlA. Pig. 60. Ova of BiUiarzia Hsematobia in Tissue. Longitudinal and transverse sections. ova are deposited in tlie tissues or reach the surface of the mucous membranes. They have been found in large quantities in the substance of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, urethra, prostate, seminal vesicles, me- senteric glands, rectum, and in warty vegetations of the skin ot the perineum and in the neighbourhood of the ex- ternal genitals. They have also been found in the liver, lungs (Mackie), and left ventricle of the heart (Griesinger). When old, the shells undergo cal- careous degeneration. Empty shells have been discovered in the tissues ; but there is no evidence to show that the entire cycle of existence of the parasite can be completed in the human body. The escape of the ova from the mucous surfaces is at- tended with luemorrhage, and their presence in the tissues induces a condition of chronic inflammation. This usually most marked in the bladder, but may extend thence to the ureters and kidneys, giving rise to hydro- or pyelo-nephrosis, and even destruction of the kidney. The basal and posterior part of the bladder are especially, sometimes exclusively, aflfected; here in the early stages inflamed ecchymosed patches, i to -g- an inch in diameter, are seen on the mucous membrane, covered with slimy mucus or yellow exudation. Later, soft granular deposits, encrusted with urinary salts, are found, .and warty vegetations develop on the mucous membrane, or chronic irritation may lead to the develop- ment of papillomata, the walls of the viscus becoming thickened even to the extent of one inch or more, the tissues containing numerous ova. The ova not infrequently serve as nuclei for the formation of vesical calculi. Similar chronic inflammatory changes may extend to the ureters, these becoming thickened and dilated to the size of the little finger, and the mucous lining is often encrusted with fine gravel. The rectal mucous membrane when aflfected develops small polypoid growths, and later small round ulcers. Symptoms.—The disease is common in young males, but has been observed at any age (J. Harley). It is comparatively rare in females in Egypt, perhaps from the fact that they mostly drink in the house, and not in the fields, and hence drink water from tlie surface of .jars in which the ova have settled to the bottom. The most prominent symptom is haematui’ia; but this may bo preceded by uneasy sensations in the loins and perineum. The IS