DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 710 ou the vulva and glans penis they may develop to an extravagant extent. Generally they owe their origin to an attack of gonorrhoea, but retained secretion (under a non-retracted prepuce, etc.), or the irritation of sexual intercourse may produce them. On the vulva they may develop so freely as to entirely hide the vaginal orifice and the labia, and in these cases there is usually a most offensive odour pre.^ent. Mild cases require merely strict attention to cleanliness, aided perhaps by the use of a powder of equal parts of tannic acid and iodoform. If any gonorrhoeal discharge persist, of course it must be care- fully treated; and where the warts fail to yield to the above treat- ment they should be nipped off with curved scissors. When excising large masses of warts it is necessary to give an ansesthetic, and to apply the actual cautery to the bases, which tend to bleed very freely, it is certainly important to cure these cases of extensive venereal warts in women, as the decomposing discharge which attends them is sometimes absorbed and causes marked depression in health, and even symptoms similar to those of pyaemia. Summary—To recapitulate, the chief varieties of warts met with may be grouped in the following manner 1. Warts on the genital surfaces, due always to some local irritation. 2. Warty growths developing in old neglected condylomata, or otherwise depending on secondary syphilis for their origin. 3. The verruca necrogenica (tubercular in nature ?) met with on the hands of surgeons, pathologists, and butchers. 4. The sessile or flat-topped warts (widely disseminated, and occurring mainly in late adult life). 5. Multiple warts on the hands, etc., of children and adolescents. 6. Warts on the mucous membrane of mouth, larynx, urethra, etc., the cause of which is quite unknown. {See also Papillomata in Art. XXII. page 476.) _ Horns.—In severe cases of congenital ichthyosis we occasionally see miniature horny growths composed of hardened epidermic pr<> lections which may be detached by vigorous rubbing, etc.; with this exception horns are usually single, and develop, as a rule, in adult life or old age. That their origin is always in connection with a sebaceous gland is doubtful. Often they commence in the followmg manner; a sebaceous cyst ulcerates and then pushes up laye after layer of epithelioid cells, which dry and harden into a con ca often spirally-twisted or curved horn. They have been me ^ most often where sebaceous cysts are common, ^.e. on tb® scalp and face (50 per cent, of the cases), after this region comes in frequency the iLrnal aspect of the thighs and (very f ®