ANEURYSM. G02 the treatment of aneurysm, and the cases of so-called recurrence of an aneurysm. It is the second part of the process—the organisa- tion of the clot—which is alone really curative, and in the cases just referred to, this essential step fails owing to the forcible stream of blood flowing through the artery. We have seen, in studying the healing of wounded arteries, that in cases of punctured and lateral wounds healing never occurs, unless the wounded artery is occluded, for the stream of blood passing through an artery effectually pre- vents the organisation of the clot sealing over the wound in its wall. The same holds true of the thrombus in an aneurysm. So lono" as that is subjected to the impact of the blood propelled through°the artery, organisation cannot occur in it. In outlying parts, bays, and recesses of an aneurysm the clot may be so freed from disturb- ance that organisation can occur in it, and we have seen that in this way the sac ma.y be strengthened from within, and partial cure may even result—i.e. certain parts of the aneurysm may be per- manently cured. But the entire clot will not be organised, and the local disease cured, unless and until the artery from which it springs is occluded. There is no more striking case of the importance of “rest” in securing “cure” than in the organisation of the clot in an aneurysm, and it is just because this perfect rest can only be secured by the obliteration of the artery that it is essential to the cure of every aneurysm. The obliterated portion of the artery—usually the part between the adjacent branches—is converted into a solid fibrous cord, to which is fixed the button of similar tissue into which the aneurysm is converted. This fact is of the highest importance. It affords the key to all successful treatment of aneurysm. It should also guard us against mistaking improvement for cure, and it teaches us that the cure of some aneurysms—as of the ascending part of the arch of aorta—is in- compatible with life, while cure of some others can only occur at the cost of the gravest disturbance of the circulation and danger of gangrene. Spontaneous cure of an aneurysm sometimes occurs in circumstances difficult to explain. It is known to be brought about in at least three ways. (1) Gradually, hy extension of the clot from the aneurysm into the artery.—The conditions favouring this are : (a) a uniform and not too forcible action of the heart; (6) the development of collateral vessels, lessening the tension in the artery; (c) the development of a second aneurysm higher up in the same arterial trunk, lessening the force of the artei’ial circulation below it; (d) such a disposition of the aneurysm that its sac compresses the artery from Avhich it arises. It is possible, too, that the outline of the sac, the form and size of its mouth, and the existence of disease of the inner coat of the artery may affect this result. (2) Suddenly, hy embolism.—A portion of clot may be displaced from the aneurysm, or from one higher up, and washed into the artery, may plug it, and a thrombus then form upon it and extend above the mouth of the sac.