ULCERATION. 108 the discharge -wliicli comes from the wound. These decomposing discharges are often highly irritating, and if anything interfere with the rapid escape of this discharge from the surface of the wound, the secretions accumulating on the part act in the same way as other irritating chemical substances, such as carbolic acid, and lead to ulceration. Thus, one of the most important points to attend to in the treatment of a sore in which there is marked sepsis is that crusts shall not be allowed to form on the surface of the wound, for if they do, the decomposing secretions accumulate beneath these crusts, and almost to a certainty when they are picked off it will be found that the healing process has come to a stop underneath them. and that, in fact, ulceration is taking place. 10. Then again, the ulcerative process may be set up by some accidental infection of the wound either leading to a very acute attack of inflammation, in which case the sore rapidly breaks down —what is known as the inflamed ulcer—or, where some specific organism, such as that of diphtheria or phagedsena, has entered and grows on the surface of the granulations, leads to a semi-gan- grenous process. In the latter cases the surface of the wound becomes converted into a pulpy mass, which consists of numerous cells and bacteria, and the parts which have already healed, and subsequently the skin around, become rapidly destroyed, as the result of the spread of these organisms into them. 11. Lastly, we have ulcers occurring as the result of deficient innervation of the part. For example, in cases of paralysis, or in cases where there is as yet no actual paralysis, the occurrence of rapid ulceration in the paralysed part is no doubt to some extent explained by the fact that, owing to the loss of sensation, the patient is apt to press on the part too long and too heavily. This, however, does not altogether account for paralytic ulcers, for it is found in cases of hemiplegia, where the patient is lying absolutely motionless, that ulceration in the form of bed sores will occur much moie rapidly and extensively on the paralysed side than on the other, although the amount of pressure on the two sides has been the same, and also in infantile paralysis, where sensation is not aflected, these paralytic ulcers are very apt to occur. Of the various ulcers which are attributed to deficient innervation, the most peculiar and the one most deserving of notice is that which is known as the pei- forating ulcer of the foot. {See Art. XXVII.) ^ Constitiitioiial causes.—Of constitutional conditions whicli lead to the formation of ulcers, perhaps the most important is the existence of diabetes. In such cii-cumstances, ulceration and also gangrene are very apt to occur, more especially m the lower extremities, after very slight injury, partly, no doubt, because the tissues of a diabetic individual are particularly prone to become infected with micro-organisms, partly also because the arteries are very apt to become affected by endarteritis, and possibly m part also owing to interference with the proper innervation of the body. However that may be, there is no doubt that m cases of