JNJURTFjS of nONFB. 846 fragment ii5 towards the vessels and nerves O of the popliteal space, and this spot is one where vascular complications are specially frequent. The T- and Y-fractures are due to direct violence or to penetration of the lower end of the shaft into the lower end, splitting it up (Fig. 211); firm impaction of the pointed shaft into the lower end may persist (Fig. 289). Sei>aratiou of tlic lower epiphysis (Fig. 291) has generally been due to forcible twisting and angular movements, as when the limb is caught between the spokes of a wheel; direct violence will also push it off. Generally the epiphysis is carried forwards (Fig. -290), and the lower end of the shaft forces its way through the periosteum into the jiopliteal space, when the vessels and nerves will be drawn tensely over it; other displacements, causing great deformity, occur. The results have been bad (Hutchinson). Of twenty-eight simple cases sixteen were well reduced and recovered; in twelve I’eduction was Fig. 289.-All irregular Y- ■ Fracture of the lower End of the Femur, one arm of the Y being prolonged up- wards on tlie inner side to tlie top of the lower third. The pointed shaft was im- pacted in the outer con- dyle, of which it depressed tlie anterior end. The inner condyle was pressed a little upwards before union occurred. (Univer- sity College Museum, No. 283.) imperfect—six sloughed or suppurated, four requiring amputation, one excision of the knee, and one resection of the end of the shaft. Among the compound cases amputation and deaths from pyaemia were still more numerous: live cases in which the pro- truding diaphysis was cut off did well. Doubt- less there are many pure and mixed cases in which there is little or no dislocation, which do well and are never recorded. Fractures of tlie condyles are rare, and generally occur from blows or falls on the bent knee. Such a fragment as is represented in Fig. 292 would probably be felt to move in certain positions of the joint, with crepitus and the de- velopment of genu valgum. Sometimes the condyles are comminuted; again, only a small bit is chipped off and forms a loose body. Fig. 290.—Separation of the lower Epiphysis of the Femur, Flexion of the lower Fraguient, Displacement back- wards of the upper Fragiucut, followed by bony union. From a girl'oflT. Three yc.ars earlier her limb had been c.anght between the spokes of a wheel; after this injury the knee remained “pain- ful and swollen, and she had a halt in walk- ing." After three years extensive suppuration occurred and amputa- tion was done by Li.ston.