G81. INJURIES OF NERVES. If the condition of the paralysed muscle be examined electrically, further evidence may be obtained, which, in doubtful cases, will greatly aid diagnosis. Within twenty-four ho\irs of the nerve section Faradic irritability begins to diminish, aird witliin four or live days is completely lost, so that even the strongest currents will produce no contraction. It is pretty certain that this loss of excitability is due to the destruction of the motor nerve fibres. The galvanic current, which acts more directly on the muscle substance itself, does not at first appear to lose its effect, for during the two or three days succeeding the injury the galvanic irritability of the muscles seems to be actually increased. After this time, however, muscular contractions grow more feeble, and in the course of about two or three months gradually disappear. It is during this period of diminishing galvanic irritability that the “ reaction of degeneration ” becomes marked. Normally, the kathodic closure contraction of a healthy muscle is greater than the anodic closure contraction. After nerve section, when the muscle is degenerating, the anodic closure contraction first becomes equal to, and then greater than, the kathodic: a reaction which indicates degeneration of muscle and nerve, and is, therefore, named the “reaction of degeneration.” It is strange that after union of a divided nerve has taken place voluntary power returns many months before the muscles show any reaction to either the galvanic or Faradic currents. Loss of sensation.—When a nerve containing sensory fibres is divided, the patient is u.sually almost at once conscious of the numb- ness of the skin area supplied by the severed nerve. In those cases, however, where the nerve lesion is only a small part of a serious laceration of the limb, the loss of sensation often passes unnoticed, on account of the pain and shock accompanying such an accident, and thus, unless sought for, this evidence of nerve injury may remain unrecognised. In most cases complete ansesthesia of at least some of the skin results, and this is always the case when a nerve of considerable size is cut across; but in those cutaneous areas where more than one nerve is distributed, as on the ring finger, more or less sensibility may persist. Even in these cases, however, the patient is conscious that sensibility is greatly impaired, and although the sense of touch may be retained to some slight extent, sensibility to pain and to heat and cold are almost always lost. ^ At the edge of the affected skin area the line dividing ansesthetic parts froni healthy skin is usually not very sharply marked, and an area ot impaired sensibility is generally to be found. . In testing the amount and extent of the loss of sensation, it is necessary to be very careful, and the possibility of exciting sensory impressions through the medium of neighbouring healthy nerves must always be kV in mind. Thus, if a finger be pressed or pushed, the patient may perceive, through his “ muscular sense, that it is being touched ; or if the supposed ana3sthetic area is tested by the surgeon rubbing it with his finger, the vibrations coiivejed to the neighbouring healthy nerves will correctly convey tactile