166 ERYSIPELAS. Symptoms.—Tlie constitutional symptoms of cellulo-cutaneous erysi[jelas are the same in kind, but more severe in degree than those of the cutaneous form. At the beginning, severe and repeated rigors ai'e the rule. These may simulate intermittent fever. The temperature is high with considerable exaltations during the rigors. The frequency of the pulse and respirations is markedly increased. Delirium is common, and there is an absence of sleep, and great restlessness. The patient’s aspect is haggard and anxious. Pneu- monia, pleurisy, nephritis, pyaemia, septicaemia, and the other com- plications of simple erysipelas are all of frequent occurrence. In drunkards delirium tremens is to be feared. Cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas occurs in broken-down subjects. The aged, the starved, and those with diseases of the kidneys and liver are predisposed to its attacks. It is prone to run an asthenic course, with rapid and feeble action of the heart, quick and shallow respi- rations, diarrhoea, muttered delirium, with subsultus tendinum, and the formation of sordes or of aphthous patches about the mouth and pharynx. Suppuration is one of the chief local symptoms of cellulo- cutaneous erysipelas. In cutaneous erysipelas, suppuration is the exception. Sloughing, ulceration, and gangrene are also frequent complications of cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas. At first the colour of the skin in cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas is a deep, dusky red, which disappears on pressure ; afterwards it becomes irregular and marbled. There is great swelling and oedema, and the whole part looks twice its natural size. The edge of the swelling is not abrupt, nor board- like. The epidermis is raised into bullse filled with blood-stained serum. The lymphatic vessels are usually inflamed, but may not be felt—owing to the oedema. Irregular red lines may mark the course of inflamed superflcial lymphatics. The affected area is hot, and the patient complains of intense throbbing pain. The cutaneous vessels are engorged with blood, and vessels which are ordinarily small bleed smartly for a time after their division. The subcutaneous fat and cellular tissues are swollen and in- filti’ated with yellow serum, which gives them a gelatinous appearance. After awhile this fluid becomes purulent, and the skin is separated from the deep fasciae by tissues soaked with thin pus. This interferes with nutrition and nerve-supply, and leads to sloughing and gangrene of the skin. The sloughing cellular tissues may escape from the apertures with the purulent discharge. They have been compared to wet tow, wet chamois leather, and so forth. True abscesses or ulcers are seldom seen in cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas. The swelling of cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas is at first soft and oedematous, and pits on pressure. As the tension increases it becomes hard, and the skin over it shining. When suppuration occurs it imparts a characteristic “boggy” sensationj true fluctuation is seldom felt. The pus has no tendency to point, as in acute absce.ss, but diffuses itself along the cellular planes. It often strips vast areas of