SUFPUBATION. 102 of another sinus. The most common cause of .sinus is, however, the presence of tuberculous disease in the wall, more especially where pyogenic organisms have entered the abscess cavity at the time of opening or subsequently. (See Fig. 19.) The.se tuberculous sinuses are extremely common after chronic abscesses have been opened, and if the wall of the sinus be examined, it is found to be lined by tubercles, just as the wall of a chronic abscess itself is. In such cases, although there may be no foreign body, the sinus may jiersist indefinitely, especially if pyogenic organisms be present, the tubercle having but little tendency to disappear. Where the entrance of pyogenic organisms is prevented, in most cases the tissues ulti- mately overcome the tubercular process, and the sinus heals. Other causes of sinuses are movement in the part, as where the abscess Ls formed between planes of muscles which are kept in constant move- ment, and imperfect exit for discharge, quite apart from the presence of a foreign body or of tuberculous disease. Where the opening is incomplete the septic pus does not escape freely, and thus a condition of inflammation is kept up, and the deeper portions of the wound are kept apart by the presence of the pus. Treatment of sinus.—The treatment of a sinus consists essen- tially in the removal of the cause of the persistence of the opening; hence, in all cases the sinus must be opened up freely so that there shall be no difficulty in the escape of pus from the deeper parts, and if a foreign body, such as a piece of dead bone, be present, this must be removed. Where the cause of the sinus is muscular action, the part should be placed on a splint, or by other means be kept at rest; where it is imperfect escape of discharge, the opening must be enlarged and large drainage-tubes inserted, coimter-openings being made if necessary, ^here we have to do with a tuberculous sinus, the best treatment is to enlarge the wound and dissect away the walls of the sinus and any disease which may be present at the bottom. Where, from the situation of the sinus, this treatment is impracticable, the oriflce should be opened up and the lining mem- brane thoroughly scraped away. In cases where the sinus leads to dead bone, which is comparatively easily accessible, it is well to make a very free incision along the track, and after having scraped away and removed as much of the disease as possible, stuff the wound with gauze sprinkled with iodoform, and make it heal from the bottom. . Varieties and causes of fistula.—Fistula is a condition where there is an opening in the skin and an opening in the mucous membrane, with a canal between them. It occurs in various parts of the body, especially around the orifices of the mucous canals. Thus there are salivary fistulie, where there is an external opening leading into a salivary duct, the salivary duct again leading into the mouth. (See Art. XLIV., on Affections of the Mouth, V;) There are various congenital fistulie, more especially in the neck, wlucli are remains of branchial clefts (Art. XLII., on Injuries and Diseases OF THE Neck, Vol. II.). We have intestinal fistulie, where an opening