DJ8JSASE8 OF THE JAW8. 944 in the extiacting-room under tlie supervision of the dental surgeon. Pie will then learn that teeth are extracted not by the exhibition of great force following the indiscriminate selection and application of the forceps, but by the skilful application of force. There are many dangers incidental to the extraction of teeth, such as haemorrhage; fracture of the jaw; extraction of the wrong tooth, extraction of two teeth simultaneously ; the passage of a tooth or stump, or a piece of the forceps or mouth prop, into the larynx and trachea; fracture of the tuberosity of the max- illa ; foi’cing the stump into the antrum or nasal fossa; in- jury to the mandibular (inferior dental) nerve or dislocation of the mandible. Haemorrhage after extraction.—It is rare that the loss of blood after tooth extraction is a source of anxiety; nevertheless hsemorrhage from a tooth-socket is occasionally severe enough to imperil life. In many cases it is suflBcient to plug the socket firmly with a strip of lint, or small pieces of sponge dusted with tannic acid, or persulphate of iron. In exceptional cases, Paquelin’s cautery at a dull heat may be employed. Fifteen grains of gallic acid given internally has a useful styptic effect. When a healthy tooth is extracted by mistake, the socket should be irrigated with warm water to clear it of blood ; the roots of the tooth should be similarly cleansed and the tooth replaced and firmly pressed home. Many teeth replaced thus have retained their position for yeans. The passage of a tooth or other body into the larynx during extraction is a very grave accident. Should the patient be under the influence of an anaesthetic, and the foreign body remain in the larynx, it will induce spasm and rapid asphyxia unless promptly removed with the fingers, or by tracheotomy, or laryn- gotomy. Should it slip between the vocal cords, it may lodge in the trachea or fall into a bronchus and set up septic pneumonia, abscess of the lung, etc. The treatment of foreign body in the trachea is considered in Article XLIII., on Injuries and Diseases of the Neck, Vol. II. Occasionally Avhen a tooth is extracted it slips from the forceps, and falling upon the tongue is sometimes carried backwards into the pharynx and swallowed. Such an event causes momentary uneasiness to the operator. In extracting teeth under nitrous oxide it is necessary to remove any artificial plate worn by the patient, and in placing the mouth-prop in position to take care that it does not rest on loose teeth; when two or more are to be extracted, it is necessary that the operator should be expeditious, but he should take care that the tooth or stump first extracted has been released from the blades before he re-introduces the forceps into the mouth. It is a fact that this is one of the means by which teeth get into the larynx and trachea.