189 SYMPTOMS. ■V-K7 /lo t>vit n.re followed by tetanus are, as a rule, septic. Sup pISorieration, sloughing, and phaged.na • w +li the sensis. An ulcer caused by an ill-titting plaster oi Paris case which had been applied for tuberculous disease of the ankle wa^the starting-point in a case in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and foul and sloughing burns sufficed in two others. A dustman was inoculated through a chronic ulcer of the leg which had existed fifteen years, and two other men with chronic ulcers of the lep died with most acute tetanus. Evidently the wound need not be a An account of the baciUus of tetanus will be found on page 44. Period of incubation.—After inoculation the onset of tetanus is always preceded by a period of incubation, during which the patient may seem quite well, although careful inquiry usually elicits that indefinite symptoms, feverishness, epmtaxis, oi shiverin^ have preceded the attack. No definite limit can be assigned to this period of incubation. In the Peninsular War, during which tetanus was very prevalent, it was never longer than the twenty-two day^ In a child aged 4 years tetanus began on the fourth day, in a youth of 14 on the tenth day, and in a strong young man on the sixteenth. The period of incubation seems to be shorter in childhood, but the second week is the period during which the attack is most li^ly to occur. Those cases, in which the convulsions supervened dnectly after the injury, are probably spurious. Trismus neonatorum is iiopularly called ‘ nuie-day fits,” from the time after birth at which the disease usually commences. In such cases as those of burn, chronic ulcer, and septic wound it must obviously be very difficult to say exactly when the bacillus was introduced. Degrees of tetanus.—Tetanus is called acute or chronic, according to the seyerity of the symptoms. In acute tetanus the incubation is, as a rule, short. The onset of the symptoms is quick, and they soon culminate and run a rapid course. The end is almost invariably fatal. In chronic tetanus the incubation is, as a rule, a long one. The symptoms appear gradually, are mild and prolonged, and gradually disappear. Recovery is comparatively frequent. How- ever, this distinction of acute and chronic tetanus is decidedly q,rtificial. Intermediate degrees of severity are frequently met with. Syiuptoins of totamis. —It has been already stated that tetanus is a disease of the nervous system, manifested by tonic spasms of the voluntary muscles. Various groups of voluntary muscles may be affected. Those supplied by the motor division of the fifth nerve, by the seventh, by the spinal accessory, and nerves of the cervical plexus are usually the first to suffer wherever the original injury may have been. Very often the muscles of the neck are the first to contract, so that the patient thinks he has got a stiff neck from sitting in a