1123 SHOULDER JOINT DISEASE. cartilage of the head or in the growing line of the e2)iphysis of the great tuberosity, or more rarely in the glenoid cavity. Symptoms.—Tlie diagnosis between the synovial form and that commencing in the bones is not very difficult if the following points are attended to, and the affection be seen in time. Early effusion and limitation of movement indicate synovial disease. Swelling of the soft parts and thickening of the bones without much etl'usion and with a good deal of pain at night usually indicate bone disease. But great difficulty is often experienced in diagno.sing the various forms of bone disease one from the other. But in these days of aseptic exploration of joints by incision this is not of so much importance as formerly. Still, if a distinction can be made between disease of the great tuberosity which is developing outside the capsule from disease of the head, or glenoid cavity, much is gained. Tuberculous disease starting in the great tuberosity usually leads to much bony thickening on the outer aspect of the head of the humerus with considerable nocturnal pain, but without limitation of the movement of the joint or effusion. Very soon a soft doughy spot may be felt as the disease spreads and softens the bone, and° later a definite caseous abscess on the outer side of the head of the humerus. This abscess will usually work its way forwards or backwards, rarely through the deltoid outwards. But it must not be forgotten that if neglected such disease will almost certainly involve the ioint ulti- mately. Tuberculous disease commencmg in the head of the bone proper, either irr the epiphysial line or under the cartilage, causes much general thickening of the bone, and very soon extends to the surfaces and to the synovial membrane. The diagnosis of tuberculous disease of the shoulder from the other affections is not very difficult, in view of the patient’s historr’’ and the gradual development of the condition. treatment is the same as that for other joints (pawe 1049). The local ti-catmeiit, on the other hand, differs in so fm- as rt has perhaps a better chance of success here than in almost any other-articulation. The reason for this is probably the ease with whrch perfect irnmobilisation can be carried out in the shoulder wrthout rnterfering with outdoor exercise. In the very earliest stages of the disease, either of the synovial membrane or bone, the arm can be earned in a sling, secured to the side ; and unlike the lirp, knee, and ankle, the joint has nothing but its own weio-ht to contend agarnst, arid hangs in the position of greatest ease naturally. Xno nfipri n^1« j i • . -i ... stages, and when these have done their work in vprlnmrwY tiio