iJ12 8UB0I0AL DISEASES DUE TO MIOBOBIG INFECTION. extremely resistant to ordinary atmospheric conditions, heat, and desiccation, and remain capable of development for years if a suitable soil be offered. ihe bacillus of anthrax is rod-shaped, with rectangular extremi- ties, about 3 0^0 0 inch in length. It is at times somewhat enlarged at the ends, and shows signs of transverse fission—the method by which it multiplies within the body. In pleural exuda- tion long threads sunilar to those developed in artificial media are seen. It is readily stained with gentian violet, Spiller’s purple, or many aniline colours. In malignant pustule the organisms are found in the serum of the vesicles, and in great numbers in the deeper layers of the cutis clothing the papillas, and obscuring their structure (Wagner, Charlewood Turner, R. Koch). They gradually extend on all sides, entering the blood-vessels and lymphatics. The central portion of the affected area rapidly becomes necrotic, and more or less extensive blood extravasations occur in and beneath it. Local reaction around is well marked, the tissues becoming hyper- semic, with small-celled infiltration and marked oedema. Bacilli are not demonstrable in the general circulation until some days after primary infection. {See page 31.) The disease occurs in animals in two forms : an external, evidenced by the development of brawny swellings of the skin and subcutaneous structures, and an internal, involving the respiratory and alimentary tracts. In man the same varieties are met with, the external being known as malignant pustule. This commences as an infection of the skin, and continues for a short time a local process. From the primary focus, however, the bacilli and the waste products of their metabolism enter the general circulation, and in the majority of cases cause death from septicsemia if surgical assistance be not forth- coming. Some individuals, however, offer a special resistance to the disease, and rare cases have been reported of spontaneous recovery. A previous attack offers no immunity from subsequent ones. Pasteur, by cultivating the organism at an abnormally high temperature, has succeeded in lowering its virulence, and has thus produced a protective “ vaccine,” which is said to render animals immune to the disease. Wooldridge succeeded in endowing rabbits with immunity by injecting a chemical substance isolated from the blood of other rabbits which had suffered from the disease. The production of immunity by the injection of albumoses has been further worked out by Hankin. Mode of infection.—Malignant pustule in man is met with almost exclusively on uncovered parts of the body. Infection maj^ occur of a pre-existing pustule, wound or abrasion, or possibly by the bite of an insect which has rested or fed upon infected matter. The handling of infected hides is a common source of infection ; and internal anthrax may result from inhaling or swallowing dust from them. Those employed in tending infected animals, veterinary surgeons, and slaughterers may be directly inoculated. Anthrax