1115 ANKLE JOINT DISEASE. When it ia met with, the usual signs and symptoms of synovitis are observed —i.e. pain and limitation of movement, swelling, fluctua- tion, and occasionally some redness. The swelling and fluctuation are usually most noticeable in front at either side of the extensor tendons, but also to some extent behind at either side of the tendo Achillis. The diagnosis is based upon the history of injury or exposure and the signs just alluded to, and usually gives rise to no difl&culty. The treatment is that of inflammation generally, and consists in absolute rest for the part in the elevated position, and the applica- tion of leeches at the outset, followed by ice-bags or evaporating lotions, and later by hot fomentations with belladonna. At the same time, the bowels are to be kept open, and vascular tension is to be relieved by saline purges, with a small quantity of tartarised antimony pushed ad nauseam. When, by these means, the general vascular tension and the efiusion have been checked, blisters may be employed to get rid of the fluid. This is usually easily done in simple cases, and then nothing remains but to support the joint for a time in either a plaster-of-Paris case or such a splint as that figured in Fig. 458. As the pain and stiflhess subside, the patient may be encouraged to use the joint for walking, first with the spbnt still on, and later without it. Care should always be taken not to allow the joint to remain too long without movement, lest the stiffness become permanent. The subacute form of this afiection is, perhaps, less uncommon than the acute, and is o recognised by the same signs and symptoms for the Ankle, present in a less marked degree. The treatment of this will also be identical generally as in the last instance, but here we may resort to blistering earlier, and follow this up by rubefacients such as tr. iodi. If by these means the swelling and effusion be relieved, passive movement and massage at the same time must be employed to overcome stiffness. Then active movement with caution, lest the inflammation be set up again. It is well in this, as in all other forms of synovitis in the joints, after the process has subsided to support the latter by means of strapping or elastic webbing for a time, to prevent passive eflfusion. {See page 1038.) The cliroiiic foi'iii of simple synovitis of the ankle not infre- quently springs from one or other of the two previous affections, Here the tendency is to great thickening of the synovial membrane, with less effusion than in the acute or subacute forms, as a rule. But tlie swelling manifests itself in precisely the same position as