BISLOGATIONS OF TIFF ANKLE. 1017 patient is incapacitated for the duties of active life. Tlie aid of a skilled surgical mechanician should be sought in these cases, and an apparatus should be constructed, designed to support the knee, and to make direct pressure on the site of displacement. In case the apparatus fails or is ill-borne, the propriety of an operation may be considered. This consists in laying open the joint with all the precautions and in the same manner as is adopted in the ordinary operation for loose cartilage. The incision should be placed over the site of the supposed displaced cartilage. All bleeding vessels, even the smallest, should be clamped or twisted, and the wound being well held asunder with fine retractors, the disorganised part of the articulation is exposed to the eye and finger. Should a displaced cartilage be found, it is now brought into its place, and firmly fixed there by sutures of aseptic silk, which are passed with a strong curved needle through the periosteum and fibrous aponeurosis at the edge of the tibia. Should a portion only of cartilage be displaced, having been stripped away ribbon-like from the main cartilage, it had better be removed in toto. This operation, performed with all the elaborate care and attention to detail which its gravity Avarrant.s, has given excellent results in some otherwise obstinate cases. The necessity for it. if a proper apparatus be constructed, is probably rare. In some instances, perhaps more frequently than is generally known, the knee-joint has been opened, and no definite pathological lesion found. In a minority, disastrous results, as suppuration and fibrous anchylosis, in faulty positions, have oc- curred, so that no one should undertake this proceedmg vvithout careful consideration of all the circumstances of the case, and a full confidence in his own powers of producing and maintaining perfect asepticity. The uniting of the wound, including e sjmovial membrane, and the general after-treatment, are in all respects those with which we are familiar in the operative treatment of loo.se cartilage ” in the knee, and will not here be alluded to. /•/«« ankle-joint proper. Causation and classificaUon.—’IhQSQ injuries, like most others about the foot, are caused by violent wrenches and twists, as when a heavy man mSn^ f'"" the dark, or jumps out of a veliicle in rapid motion. Ihe antero-posterior displacements are usually caused bv some sudden fixation o£ the foot when the body is in rapid motion Thu.s a man running may suddenly put his foot in a liole, and tlie oiglit and impetus of the body will force the tiliia forwards on the Fig. 421.—Emst’s Apparatus for Displaced Semi-lnnar Cartilage.