1070 DISEASES OF JOINTS. clifliculty in diagnosis. The slow growth and position at once suggest their origin. The total absence of all the signs of active inflammation distinguishes them at once from abscesses, and the only condition they are likely to be confounded with is a soft new growth. Such growths, however, are not common in the neigltbourhood of joints, and, as a rule, are much more rapidly formed than the cysts in question. They will also be found in some cases, where very vascular, to pulsate, whereas the cysts are quite free from this symptom. Fatty tumours are sometimes difficult to distinguish from these cystic .swellings when seated in the flexures of joints, but their lobulated outline, and the fact that they are movable under the skin in all attitudes of the joint, serve to distinguish them from the bursal tumours, which are less sharply defined, and in some positions of the joint are firmly fixed. The treatment of these cysts is either palliative or radical. Sometimes they will become I’educed in size under the action of blisters or discutients, such as iodine, combined with strapping or bandaging, and this should always be tried first. But when this course fails, they may be aspirated and strapped, and may not refill. Both these methods of treatment, however, fail in a large proportion of cases, and nothing is left but their careful extirpation by the knife. This is done with great care, so as to secure perfect asepsis and primary union of the whole wound. An incision is made, so as to expose the cyst, and this is carefully isolated by dissection in the loose areolar tissue lying outside the fibrous investment of the cyst. The latter is now separated all round and gradually drawn out of the wound, if possible, unruptured. Many of these structures can thus be removed as a whole, but in some cases the capsule is very thin and bursts, or can only be followed a certain way among the tendons, and has to be removed incompletely. This, however, will be enough in many cases to eflect a cure, for the cicatrisation of the residuum may be counted on. This treatment by excision is suitable to all the cysts in connection with joints, and, properly performed, offers the best pro.spect of a permanent cure with the minimum of risk. Loose bodies in joints.—Reference has already been frequently made in the foregoing pages to what are known as “ loose bodies” in joints, and it becomes necessary now to examine more particularly into their clinical history, varieties, and treatment. Clinical! liistory*—Not infrequently patients, otherwise in ex- cellent health, are suddenly seized with violent pain in a joint, and are immediately unable to move it in any direction. This comes on usually while the joint is being moved from the attitude of greatest relaxation to that of extension. The pain is excruciating, and sufiicient, in many cases, to produce faintness, followed by vomiting. The articulation becomes suddenly fixed, and is kept so by the involuntary action of the muscles on guard against any further movement. In most cases tlie part appears at fii’st perfectly normal, but sooner or later, after such an attack, it is affected with acute or subacute synovitis. (See page 1033.) Later, on the subsidence of the latter.