G04 INJUUI1H8 OP BLOOD-VESSPLS. are of old standing. Laceration may completely occlude a vein as an artery, but, owing to the smaller amount of elastic and muscular tissue in its walls, a torn vein may continue to bleed when its companion artery is completely closed. Thus it happens that very extensive and even fatal haemorrhage may occur from a subcutaneous laceration or rupture of a vein. In certain situations the veins are unable to collapse, owing to their walls being adherent to rigid structures, e.g. the cranial sinuses and the hepatic veins; and fiom these veins furious haemorrhage may occur. Wounds of veins are of frequent occurrence, and if they involve deep and large vessels they are very serious injuries. Owing to the low pressure of the blood in the veins, and to the tendency of divided veins to collapse, the haemorrhage is less rapid than it is from wounds of the corresponding arteries. For this reason, also, it is easy and safe to arrest venous haemorrhage by external pressure. Treatment.—Wherever possible injured veins should be allowed to heal without obliteration of their lumen; lateral wounds and punc- tures should be closed by a lateral ligature, and as the blood-pressure is so little, pressure may be safely employed to occlude veins. The cardiac end of a divided vein need only be ligatured when it is in the “ dangerous a,rea,” or above valves so that air may be drawn in or blood escape from it. When the main vein of a limb has to be tied, the main artery, if not wounded, should not be also tied in order to prevent the occurrence of moist gangrene. Indeed, the chance of gangrene is increased when the vis a tergo of the circula- tion is diminished at the same time as an obstruction is placed to the venous return from a part. Where both vessels are wounded, both should be tied, if the wound in the vein is more than a small puncture. • i , mi 7. Entrance of air into veins.—This is a rare accident, ihe suddenness with which it occurs and its alarmmg and often fata,l consequences invest it with special interest and importance. Experi- ments on animals have shown that a small quantity of air may to iniected into a vein without ill-eflect, and, provided the injection is carried out very slowly and gradually, even a large quantity of air may be introduced without the disastrous consequences that ensue from the sudden entrance of a smaller amount. Caiises.^ In the large veins near the heart there is negative blood pressure, the blood being drawn towards the right auricle by the aspiratory effect of inspiration. Tins negative pressm’e is at its maximmn in the intra-thoracic veins and in those at the root ot the neck and lessens as we pass farther away from the heart. iJie influence of deep and laboured inspiration, however, may be mamtest at some distance. If a vein in which the blood pressure is negative is wounded, and the wound held open and exposed in the air; an is sucked into the heart. If, however, the wound in the vein collapses, air is not sucked in. We thus see that the cause of the entrance of air into a vein is twofold: (1) the aspiration oi the chest, and (-) the patency of a wounded vein open to the air. Ihe patency ot a