142 GANGRENE. regards amputation in senile gangrene are completely altered. In fact, in my opinion, one should in the great majority of cases of senile gangrene recommend early amputation. By operating at an early period the patient’s strength is not worn out by continued pain and loss of sleep, and he is in a very much better condition to survive the operation than if it be delayed to a later period. The only difficulty is that one does not know how far the process wiU extend; but, as a rule, this can be judged of by ascertaining the point at which the pulsation in the main vessels ceases, and if one cannot ascertain this, then the best place for amputation in most cases is the knee joint. Indeed, even if one found that pulsation was going on lower down, it is a question, which must be decided in the individual cases, whether one should not still amputate at the knee joint. (6) Oaiigrene due to some sudden obstruction of the blood-vessels.—This may be the result of some pressure out- side the blood-vessels, of rupture of the blood-vessels, or of some blocking in their interior. Examples of gangrene due to pressure outside the blood-vessels are furnished by the application of tight bandages, where the parts below subsequently swell; for instance, where a fracture of the fore-arm is put up with the arm in the extended position, a turn being taken above the elbow to keep the splint from slipping off, and where the arm is then bent at right angles so as to place it in a sbng. In such circumstances this turn above the elbow will become too tight, and, as I have seen in one case, will lead to gangrene of the whole of the fore-arm, Another example is furnished after fracture, where, if the bones be not brought into proper position, one of the broken ends may press on the blood-vessels, and prevent the flow of blood to the parts below; or, again, in connection with the fracture there may be rupture of the blood-vessels, diminishing the supply of blood to the extremity, and, in addition, the effused blood collecting in the tissues, presses on the other vessels, and so completes the obstruction. Again, we have the effect of a ligature applied around the vessels, in parts of their course where there is but little collateral circulation. This is chiefly seen after ligature of the third part of the axillary artery, of the brachial artery, or of the external iliac. This is, however, a rare cause of gangrene, because even in the examples mentioned there is usually sufficient collateral circulation. It is gene- rally held to be particularly dangerous if, at the same time that the main artery is tied, the circulation through the vein be interfered with either by pressure or by ligature; but I must confess that I do Jiot feel confident as to the danger of this occurrence. I have removed both the axillary artery and vein in operating for cancer in the axilla without gangrene following in the arm, although the axillary artery is one of those in which the collateral circulation is most inefficient. , . , , j x Of the causes in the interior of the artery, which lead to_ gan- grene, the essential one is the occurrence of embolism, which is, of