33 BAOILLUS OF INFLUENZA. When suppuration has set in, tliese bacilli can be seen only in the deeper layers of the fibrinous lymph of the membrane, because of the presence of numerous other organisms.* This bacillus, apparently powerless to live in the human body, except at the seat of inoculation, has the power of secreting a virulent poison, which is most active when alkaline, the presence of free acid limiting its action very considerably. This poison is now usually considered to be a toxic albumen (toxic albumose and organic acid which, according to Sidney Martin, are the result of the digestive action of Roux and Yersin’s enzymes on the proteids of the body, though Roux and Yersin seem to indicate that this is not the case). It is so virulent that of a milligramme is sufficient to kill a guineapig, -g- of a milligramme to kill a rabbit, and ■§■ of a milligramme a medium-sized dog. When injected into the veins or into the subcutaneous tissues, this poison appears to act on the walls of the blood-vessels, giving rise to vascular dilatations, hsemon-hages, and the peculiar cedematous areas so characteristic of certain forms of the disease. From the behaviour of this substance it has been suggested that the noxious agent is a poison- forming substance rather than a toxic substance itself, and that it is only after it has been introduced into the body that the actual poisons are formed. This toxine has been separated from cultures or media containing proteids and from media in which there are none, and from animals and human beings who have died of diphtheria. The diphtheria bacillus retains its vitality for some time. It is capable of growing at comparatively low temperatures, and on most kinds of organic matter, especially in milk and on potatoes, although it is a somewhat difficult matter to determine its presence in and on these media, without having recourse to microscopic or cultivation examination. The importance of this point in connection with the spread of diphtheria is very obvious. (The anti-toxic serum treatment is considered in Art. XLIII., on Injuries and Diseases op the Neck, Yol. IT.) Bacillus of influenza.—The bacillus of influenza is the smallest bacterium yet described, being about the same breadth (OT/x to but only about half as long {OAfi to 0'5/x) as the bacillus of mouse septicaemia. Pfeifier first, and then Canon, found it in the purulent lowered on to it, the superficial fluid removed with a piece of blotting-paper, and the preparation is examined at once. The diphtheria bacilli, seen in small groups, are more readily stained than any of the other organisms present. * In order to obtain cultures, a particle of the false membrane is taken on a platinum needle, or on a cotton-wool pad as mentioned in ffie previous foot-note. This needle is then dra-wn eight or ten tunes (or the pad once) over the surface of a glycerine agar-agar tube or a tube coutaining a mixture of throe parte of blood serum and oiie part of neutralised broth, to which have been added 1 per cent, of peptone, 0 5 per cent, of common salt, and 1 per cent, of grape sugar. The strokes are made parallel to one another, like ploughed furrows. Incubated at a little below the body temperature, colonies of bacilli rapidly make their appearance and are wsible to the naked eye in twenty hours as small rounded greyish-white points, wi^ an opaque centre ; these spread into gi-eyish rounded discs of consider- able size, before any other organisms with which they may bo confounded have had time to form colonies at all visible to the naked eye. C