216 WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. A very important question is wliether it is necessai’y to irrigate the wound during the course of tlie operation, that is to say, whether it is necessary to take means to destroy organisms which may have fallen in from the air. In hospital practice I think that this is necessary. In places where there are wounds, dried-up discharges, dried-up blood, numbers of people—many of whom have come from dissecting- rooms—and so forth, I cannot but think that the air in an operating theatre must contain pathogenic organisms, and therefore I think it is necessai’y to take means to prevent their taking foothold in the wound. Formerly this was done by means of a spray of carbolic acid, and it was supposed that the spray acted by destroying organisms which were floating in the air. This has now been clearly proved to have been erroneous, but in addition to the spray passing through the air over the wound, the wound itself was constantly bedewed with the antiseptic solution—in other words, it was gently irrio-ated—so that although the organisms were not disinfected while floating in the air, they fell on to a wound, the surface of which was covered with a layer of antiseptic fluid, which could at once act on them. The objections to the spray as an irrigator were, however, numerous, more especially the strength of the carbolic acid was very disadvantageous for the healing of the wounds, and therefore it has been given up almost entirely, and its place taken by irrigation. As a material for irrigating wounds I use a weak sublimate solution, certainly nothing stronger than 1 to 2,000; and in cases where a joint is opened, I generally employ 1 to 4,000 or 1 to 6,000. These'sublimate solutions do not irritate the wound to anything like the degree that carbolic acid does, and in fact I see no reason to suppose that they materially interfere with the healing process, while for the reasons I have mentioned I believe that they are an advantage, more especially in hospital practice. That they are not absolutely essential in the great majority of cases we knoAv, but wl at one aims at, especially with this method of treatment, is to obtain certainty and not probability as regards the results. As a rule I do not employ any special irrigator. In the majority of wounds I simply from time to time squeeze a sponge saturated with 1 to 2,000 solution over the wound, and this is more especially done Av^hile the wound is being stitched up. In cases, however where I am operating on a healthy joint, such as the knee joint, I feel happier when there is a-constant gentle stream of weak sub- limate solution flowing over the wound from the time that the jomt As regards the use of sponges, for my own part I still employ them. Some surgeons have given them up, and use instead pads of absorbent wool but these are to my mind very objectionable, especially in the way in which I have often seen them employed. It is not un- common to see a dishful of dry pads of wool brought into the operating room, and these are simply wrung out of the solution before being handed to the operator. In such circumstances, no time is allowed for proper disinfection of the pad, and the result