523 LWATUliES. roiulily nor too slowly absorbable, render catgut inferior to other Silk is used in the form of floss silk or Chinese twist. To make the pure white silk used by surgeons, the raw material is hrst boiled to remove the gum, tlien washed with soap, then placed in sulphur kilns for several houns, and finally bleached. The boiling, sulphur- ing, and bleaching ai’e all antiseptic Fig. 148.-Fenestrated Artery Forceps for their action, and silk is, therc- Ligatiire. likely to be infeetive when supplied to the surgeon than is catgut. It is rendered aseptic by prolonged boiling in water, carbolic lotion, or mercuric chloride solution, and it is kept in carbolic lotion 5 per cent, or in sublimate glycerine. It can be obtained of any required size; some prefer the softer floss silk, others the stronger twist. In an aseptic wound it becomes encapsided, and then slowly absorbed, the leucocytes and plasma cells wandering in between the flbi’es of the silk. Silk is a thoroughly reliable material for ligature, and its special preparation can easily be conducted by every surgeon. This is a great safeguard and advantage. Tendoyis, arteries, and 'peritoneum.—The long tail tendons of the kanga.roo, dried, and then soaked in carbolic or mercuric solution for forty-eight hours before use, make excellent ligatures. By splitting, they can be obtained of any required degree of fineness; they are strong, supple, and absorbable—but not too readily. The knot is bulky, and will slip if not tied very firmly. The middle coat of the aorta of the ox can be cut in long spiral bands of any desired breadth, and dried under extension. It makes a strong, flat, absorbable ligature, which knots well, and is easily made aseptic by soaking in carbolic solution 5 per cent, for some hoiu’s. Mr. Barwell has had great success in its use. Peritoneum, cut into strips and dried, is recom- mended, because it consists of pure white fibrous tissue, like the outer coat of an artery. It is ren- dered aseptic by soaking in carbolic solution.- It is said to be an excellent ligature, but has not come into general use. To apply a ligature to a divided vessel, it should be seized in a forceps (Pig. 148) and drawn gently Fig-. I49—Eeef-kuot. out, care being taken to seize the vessel eleanly without muscle, fascia, nerve, or other structure. The ligature is tied in a reef-knot (Fig. 149) or a surgeon’s knot (Fig. 150), the fingers being pressed well down on the vessel; it is tied so tight as to rupture the inner coats in order to give it a secure hold upon tlie vessel, and both ends are cut oil’short. 12. Complete divisioai of a partially-severed artery by allow- ing of its retraction and contraction will sometimes at once arrest a haiiuoridiage. This means is not of wide application, but it is of n * 2 use