609 treatment of aneurysm. • 1 ^vith fibrinous coagula and sloughs, escapes, and subsequently mixed AMtn nuiino o pf before the abscess bursts, f.,e .rtoial X™Ta sudL:t"ease of the swelliag the artery opens in , superficiality of the pulsation, with great increase ^ ^closely alike, for b\l aiJ'lttendS^Tvith hicreased swelling, diminished clearness of i ^ nf the tumour, and lessened pulsation. In rapture how- outlme of the ^nd the circulation in the ^'"^ts bevoSl the aneurysm is obstructed; in suppuration_ the part fj" hot and red, and the patient is feverish, and the circulation treating an aneurysm the surgeon shouH^m^fn"^^^^^ cuiV the disease. We liave seen that cure is only obtained when the portion of artery froni whidi the aneurysm springs is obliterated. This may be accomplished (1) by lessenuK^^or removing the obstacles to the coagulation of the blood iSthin the sac of the aneurysm, and to the extension of the clot into the artery; (2) by exciting coagulation within the sac, occludin/^he artiy from which the aneurysm springs. All the nLerous methods of treatment are effective only as they leiid to one or other of these results. They are conveniently divided into constitutional and local methods of treatment.^ Constitutional treatment.—Constitutional measures are areat value in reducing the tension within an aneurysm and by this means favouring the coagulation of the blood within it. They ai e also employed with a view of increasing the plasticity of of combating the disease of the arterial wall. In both of these directions their value is much less certain. . . n r i To reduce arterial tension two methods are prmcipally reliea upon the lessening of the force of the heart, and the diminution of the total quantity of blood. _ . i i j. j. (1) !To lessen the force of the heart the patient must be kept at perfect rest—physical, mental, and emotional. He should lie as horizontal as is compatible with comfort, all his wants should be attended to, so that he shall make no movement to help himselt. He must not sit up to take food, or empty the bladder and rectum, and in some cases he has been forbidden even to raise a handkerchief to his face. He must not be allowed to transact any business, nor be excited by books, conversation, or other influences. In cases of excited action of the heart some good may be obtained by giving aconite or belladonna internally, and by wearing a belladonna plaster over the prmcordia. Opium is often of great service in relieving pain, and in allaying physical and mental restlessness. (2) To reduce the quantity of the hlood it is generally sufficient to place the patient on a dry and restricted diet, such as the following ; 6 oz. of bread, 2 oz. of meat, a little butter, and 6 oz. of milk or water per diem. It is better to reduce the diet gradually than to cut it down to this point suddenly, and care must be taken not to distress the patient too much by these restrictions, lest the good u