48 SUnGTOAL BAGTERIOLOGY. containing liydrogen. Tlic odour of a culture of the malignant oedema bacillus is extremely characteristic, and once observed can never be forgotten. It is pathogenic for neaily all the domestic animals, with the exception of cattle, but it is met with only as an accidental disease in horses and in man, developing in the latter in the form of what the French call “ gangrene gazeuse.” It is noticeable that pure cultures inoculated into a susceptible animal do not set up the peculiar forma- tion of gas to the same extent as when earth, which no doubt con- tains a number of other bacteria, is injected. This organism, when thrown directly into the veins, is killed otf, and the animal does not succumb. The most sure way of producing the disease is to inject a pure culture subcutaneously, or into the muscular tissues, especially if this is accompanied by an injection of lactic acid, or if there is any previous injury to the tissues. An animal that recovers one attack of this disease is said to be immune; filtered cultures of the organism, or the filtered serum from immune animals, are sard to produce a similar immunity ; in both these cases, however, the inoculation must be repeated daily, for from three to eight days, 100 cc. of filtered culture being injected in three days, or 8 cc. of the filtered serum in eight days. , r 4. 3 Bacillus of black quarter.—The bacillus of sympto- matic anthrax, Eauschbrand bacillus, bacille du charbon symptoma. tique, bacillus of “blackleg ” or “ quarter evil.” This bacillus is not pathogenic to the human subject but is im- portant as being one of the anaerobic bacilli, and is usually studied Fn England as the cause of “black quarter in cattle Like the preceding organism, it sets up emphysematoiis swellings of the subcu- taneous tissue, a process which often spreads into the intermuscular septa- it is found especially on the quarters, particularly wheie the subcutaneous tissue or muscle has been injured. On cutting mto the darker-coloured affected area, gas and dark red serum exude m considerable quantities. In this serum is ound a single or in pairs, seldom in threads of any length. The individual bacilli have rounded ends, and are from 3/i to 6^ long a,nd 5^ to 6^ broad As in the other organisms of this group, flagella and spores may be demonstrated, the former by Loeffler’s method latter by means of a prolonged staining with fuchsin at a hi„h temperature. The oval spore is generally within the bacillus, and is placed near the middle of the rod, in some cases forming a con- Lerable swelling, so that the bacillus becomes shaped This bacillus is not stained by Gram s method. Like the other anaerobic organisms this bacillus ' 1 -ont Tnnteri-ils to which a certain proportion of glucose 2 pe cent.-has been added ; it will also grow ice of gelatine in an atmosphere of hy.lrogen, the colomes on the surtace w ,^ei ^ growths with irregular margins and appearing „elatine becomes liquefied, and rays shoot Tt Sin £ ceS !iLs into the surrounding liguelied gelatmo