XIX. HYSTERIA IN ITS SURQICAL RELATIONS. By FREDERICK TREVES, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, the London Hospital. Definition.—The term “ Hysteria ” is applied to a functional disorder of the nervous system, to a general neurosis that is difficult to define, but that may be described, if prominence be given to one of its primary features, as a condition of increased irritability to physical and psychical stimuli, or as a condition of general nerve in- stability as marked by enfeebled powers of inhibition and control. It is a disease without a pathological anatomy. From the origin of the term (Greek, varipa, the womb) it is only to be inferred that the disease is much more common in women than in men, and that it is often induced by some uterine or ovarian disorder. It is probable, however, that in at least fifty per cent, of the subjects of hysteria these organs are perfectly sound. Hypochondriasis in the male is very similar to, if not identical with, hysteria in the female. A.gG,—Hysteria most commonly begins between the ages of fifteen and twenty. It may develop, however, at any time during the period of active adult life and not infrequently breaks forth at the climacteric. The hysterical woman.—There is nothing distinctive about the appearance of the hysterical woman. She may be young or old, or plump or thin. She may be of a ruddy and cheerful countenance, or may be wan and sallow, and in a constant state of flabby woe. She may be a member of what is vaguely termed a “neurotic” family. Some of her relatives may be the subjects of epilepsy or insanity, or may be dipsomaniacs, or notoriously “ nervous ” in- dividuals. She may, on the other hand, be the only individual in a family to present any nervous phenomena. The hysterical woman is, in a definite sense, irritable. Stimuli act upon her nervous system with undue and uncertain vigour, and the effects, moreover, are apt to spread. Her emotions tend to become exuberant, to be distorted, or at least to be inconstant. Over all there is a weak mental control, a lack of attempt to limit the effects of normal stimuli j if not a constant lack, at least an occasional lack. She is morbidly sensitive, and presents an