714 DISEASES OF THE SKIK It I’eniains to be noted that in tlie case of carbuncle occurring in diabetics, a special diet, in which sugar and carbo-hydrates are largely excluded, may be advisable j albuminuria may indicate a milk diet, whilst in any case, if the pain and distress accompanying the sloughing be severe, opium or morphia should be given in appro- priate doses. "Ihe older the patient the more is this drug indicated, and it may well be combined with quinine. Molluscum contagiosum.—This rather rare affection consists in the occurrence of a number of small raised umbilicated tumours, which are solid and have a structure resembling somewhat that of a sebaceous gland. They occur, as a rule, on the face and neck of children, more rarely on the genitals, the trunk, etc., of adults. Their size varies greatly, from that of a pin’s head to a pea, and they rarely exceed this limit, having a tendency to inflame and to drop off when they have attained a certain size. The ac- companying woodcut (Fig. 200) shows a crop of molluscum contagiosum on the eyelid, cheeks, lips, Fla 200.—Molluscum Coutagiosum ou tlie Neck, Cheeks, neck of a child, ^ Eyelids, etc., of a Child. and m the larger ones the central de- pression can readily be seen. They are aptly compared to mother- of-pearl buttons ; their sharp definition, pinkish colour, and central depression all favouring this comparison. They usually develop in a crop and are undoubtedly contagious in a mild degree. Conclusive evidence of this is obtained in some cases where a suckling woman develops them around the nipple, and the infant has them on the face ; in adults a very extensive crop of molluscum contagiosum on the trunk, etc., may follow a Turkish bath with attendant shampooing. The exact medium of contagion is doubt- ful, but probably consists in the central cells of the molluscum body, which are by some considered to be parasitic in nature. They have little importance except from the point of view of diagnosis; especially is this so when they occur on the penis and scrotum, when they are apt to be mistaken for venereal sores. Although some- what resembling in microscopic structure a sebaceous gland, tiiey