BVFPURATION. 90 In a case, for example, of acute abscess connected with inflammation of the periosteum and bone, the treatment may consist of opening the abscess, and, in addition, of the removal of portions of the inflamed bone. Similarly, in abscesses in serous cavities, such as the pleura, means may be taken to favour the expansion of the lung ; but these different points in connection witli the treatment of acute abscesses will be referred to in articles dealing with the diseases of the various tissues and organs, and need not therefore be touched on here. Acute suppuration from open wounds.—In acute suppu- ration from open wounds the course of events is very much the same as regards the pathologi- cal changes, but, the pus being able to escape freely, the local and constitutional symptoms which are pre- sent in an un- opened abscess are naturally less marked. In fact, after the wound has be- c o m e c o m - jdetely covered with granula- tions, and free suppuration is established, the local and gene- ral symptoms of inflammation subside and almost entirely disappear, unless, indeed, some septic complication has come into play. The question of suppurating wounds will be referred to again in speaking of the healing and treatment of wounds (Ai’t. X. page 209). Acute suppuration from a mucous surface.—Where sup- puration occurs from a mucous surface, such as the urethra, the inflammatory changes take place in the first instance in the sub- mucous tissue, which becomes loaded with leucocytes and young cells ; these pus cells pass out between the epithelial cells, and escape on the free surface, along with fluid derived partly from the blood-vessels, and partly from hypersecretion of the mucous glands, whilst the epithelium itself is partly shed and partly undergoes multiplication, so that epithelial cells are found, which contain in their interior several smaller protoplasmic masses (Fig. 16). It is true that some authors state that these contained cells are not formed by multiplication of the original epithelial cells, but that they are in reality leucocytes Fig 16 —Section of the Urethra, from a case of Gonorrhoea of ten days* standing, showing the submucous cellular infiltration and the shedding of the epithelial cells, some of the projections bemg completely denuded.