DIFFUSED TRAUMATIC ANEURYSM. 633 iinderf^o cure by the simple treatment of rest, combined with eleva- tion of the limb and gentle compression of the part by a bandage. Wliere these measures fail the same treatment may be pursued as in tlie case of spontaneous aneurysm in the same situation. Thus, compression of the artery leading to the tumour may be tried, and if this fails the proximal ligature or the excision of the tumour, with the ligature of the artery above and below, is to be resorted to. When these tumours are small and easily accessible, their excision is the better course to pursue ; if deeply placed, and this operation pre- sents any special difficulty, the Hunterian ligature is to be preferred. Traumatic aneuiysm complicating fracture is generally cured by the compression of the splints and bandages applied for the broken l)one; if not, the main artery above should be compressed or tied. In these cases the union of the fracture is generally delayed. (2) Diffused traumatic aneurysm.—Where the tumour is en- larging or gangrene threatens, the artery must be tied where wounded without any delay \ the internal hsemori’hage being treated exactly as if it were primary external bleeding. This operation may be one of extreme difficulty and danger from haemorrhage. If the circulation can be controlled by a tourniquet or pressure above, this should be done, and a free incision rapidly made into the swelling, and the blood and coagula quickly turned out. The wounded artery is sought, cleaned, and a ligature is carefully applied above and below the wound. Difficulty is especially met with where the main artery cannot be thus controlled; and if a free incision were made into the tumour the patient would probably die at once from the haemorrhage that would occur. To prevent this, an incision about one inch and a half is made, and into this two fingers of the left hand are passed and feel for the open mouth of the artery ; this is firmly pressed against a bone to prevent any fui’ther escape of blood. A probe-pointed bistoury is now passed along the fingers and the wound enlarged sufficiently to lay the entire tumour open. The ends of the artery are then cleaned and tied. Easy as this operation is to describe, in practice it may be attended with the extremest difficulty. If the tumour is stationary, or extending but slowly, and there are no signs of threatened gangrene, the surgeon may wait in the hope that a sac will form around the clot and then the Hunterian ligature may be applied. If moist gangrene occurs, amputation at the level of the wounded artery is the only available resource. Wherever there is a limiting sac, proximal compression and ligature may succeed, but in all other circumstances the double ligature of the artery above and below the wound is the only appropriate treatment. III. ARTERIO-VENOUS ANEURYSM. DGfinition. An abnormal communication between an artery and a vein constitutes an arterio-venous aneurysm. When the two vessels