DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 985 and a movable joint to be of vast importance to him, a well-performed excision of the elbow would probably give the best result, and be devoid of the risks of unscientific violence. The bones must be freely removed if mobility is to be arrived at, and the operation will be one of great difficulty. 4. l>islocatiou of tlic radius and ulna forwards (Fig. 395).—This exceptional injury is produced by direct violence to the back of the elbow when the fore-arm is acutely flexed, the bones of the fore-arm being thus driven forwards. In Canton’s well-known case the radius maintained its relation with the ulna, and the ole- cranon lay in front of the humerus. The anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments were torn, and the triceps muscle and ulnar nerve also. In this injury the fore- az'm is lengthened and flexed. There is a ]Drojection posteriorly of the lower end of the humerus, and a depression in front of it, where the articular ends of the radius and ulna have passed forwards. Should the surgeon be called to treat this displacement, he would attempt to reduce it by flexing the joint acutely, and then thrusting the bones of the fore-arm back- wards with one hand, while the humerus is drawn forwards by the other. 5. Dislocation of the upper end of the ulna alone backwards.— This is a rare accident. The orbicular Hgament yields, and the radius maintains its position with regard to the external condyle, while the ulna is displaced back- wards. The dislocation is generally not quite complete. The fore-arm is flexed at p-j™ oq, Tii.=inn„finr. « an oDtuse angle, and held midway between Elbow forwards, pronation and supination, and the pro- jection of the olecranon and triceps tendon can be made out posteriorly. The treatment by the knee method or extension would here be applicable. 6. Dislocation of the upper end of the radius alone (Pig. 396), Causation and classification,—This accident is generally caused by falls on the hand, the direction of the force determining as to whether the head of the bone shall be thrown forwards or backwards. It may also be produced by blows on the head of the bone, and in children and those of weak lax ligaments, by dragging upon the fore-£ is said to be most common, yet difierencc are evident. The head of the bone may and more rarely outwards. muscular development and irm. Dislocation ;s of opinion on this point also be thrown backwards.