813 FBAGTUB.E OF THE FEMUB. sliowing little real blending between the neck and the bone around it (Figs. 278—281). As we pass towards the head the tendency to bony union gets less and internal to the middle it rarely occurs. The reasons assigned are, that in the absence of impaction, which is less common than at the base, it is difficult to fix the fragments together; that the head receives no arterial supply—the branches of the sciatic artery entering the neck behind being torn tlu-ough, and the vessel in the ligamentum teres ending in a loop at the bone ; that the subjects are often feeble and both held together by im- paction or otherwise, bony union (Fig. 282) or short fibrous may occur; as a rule there is no union between the fragments, or merely a few long bands. Then the outer fragment mounts until the soft parts, espe- cially the Y-ligament and the obturator in- tern us, prevent it from going farther, and sling the body from the top of the femur; the neck wastes and disappeai’s (Fig. 274), and the head in the acetabulum generally rests against the femur fragments degenerate. If the fragments be Pig. 283.—All old intrac.ipsular Fracture. Most of the neck has been absorbed and the fragments seem shaped to fit. Above the acetabulum is a large projection of new bone against which the lower fragment must have rested’ (University College Museum, No. 23.'i.) in the neighbourhood of the small tro- chanter. Earely a mass of new bone is thrown out from the ilium as a kind of socket against which the trochanter (Fig. 283). Lameness results from these injuries, especially from^the ununited intracapsular; but with a high boot and a stick even these patients may get about fairly. Sometimes no weight can be borne on the limb. 3. Fractnre can play of the great trochanter: separation of its epiphysis.--Both are uncommon. The latter occurs up to eighteen. Both injuries are due, as a rule, to direct violence, though a tew cases seem to show that muscular action may tear off the process. Sigm. ^Local swelling, pain, and tenderness : the fragment is felt movable and yielding; softer or harder crepitus if the torn surfaces can be approximated ; or there may be little displacement, but the I! IS