275 ETHER. • i. j +iio liner is niacle bv an ingenious arrangement of ^lots^'to ^tl-av^e^ over the“ ether in the reservoir. An mdicator point- “2” “3,” and»F” (full) on the circumlerence !S°the reservoir’ show’s the extent to which the air current is thus rinflpf'l-pd It must be remembered that fresh air can only rl 'tipd bv removing the whole inhaler, or its bag, from time to admitted byj^^^ : (1) Pour out any ether which may hTve remained from a previous adminmtration. (2) nartiallv immerse the reservoir in lukewarm watei foi a minute. ^31 Pour in U oz. of pure ether. (4) Accurately adapt the face- piLfto the face. (5) Fit on the bag. By pressing the face-piece rather more during expiration than inspiration the bag will become distended with expired air. (6) Keep the indicator at “ 0 ” for half a minute. (7) Very crradnally rotate the ether reser- voir, so that the “ 0 ” moves con- tinuously, but almost impercep- tibly, away from the indicator. (8) Continue to rotate the reser- voir, giving no fresh air till stertor comrnences. The inhaler may then be removed for one inspira- tion of air, but care should be taken to give no more than this for the present, and rather to increase than to dimmish the strength of ether vapour. (9) When the breathing has become regular and stertorous, and the cornea insensitive to touch, a few more inspirations of fresh air . v i j. may be allowed. (10) Generally speaking the mdicator may be kept between “ 1 ” and “ 2 ” after the patient has been placed well under. The inhaler should be removed for fresh air about every ten or twelve breaths. Feeble subjects should be allowed more air and less ether than more vigorous persons. In deep ether anaesthesia the eyes are fixed, the cornea is insensi- tive to touch, the pupils are moderately dilated, mucus and saliva are freely secreted, especially in children and young persons, and the muscular system is relaxed. The most characteristic feature of the anaesthesia, however, is the remarkable circulatory and respiratory activity. The face is flushed, the heart’s action increased in rate, and incised parts bleed very freely. Physiological experiments have shown that the blood pressure falls but slightly, whilst the heart’s cavities do not dilate as in the case of chloroform (MacWilliam). Respiration is usually deep, quick, regular, and stertorous. 5. By cllier with Orinshy’s iiilialer.—Fig. 49 shows Fig. 49.—Modified Orrasby s Ether Inhaler. F Fnce-piece; B,bag; s, sponge for ether; w, water chamber for preveniing fret'Zing of sponge; fit, stopcock for inflating cushion of face-piece. the