SUltGlGA L BAGTJURTOLOGY. 50 with ii somcwliat radiate arrangement near tlie })eriphery. These tlu’eads, somewhat larger in diameter than the cocci (the cocci are 0-5 fi), vary very considerably in lengtli, being sometimes divided into short bacilli, or even cocci, wliilst in otlier cases they are seen as long threads without any sign of division. Near the margin the threads may become branched, and very frequently, near the extremity, there is some thickening of the sheath of the coccus without, however, the club form being well developed. In other cases, again, tlie development of the club form is well marked. That these filaments are the active forms of the fungus was proved by Bostrom, who found that although the club-shaped peripheral portion of one of these masses gave rise to no growth on any of the culture media, those parts which contained numerous filaments were capable of being cultivated on ox blood serum and agar-agar, appearing first as fine granules along the line of inoculation ; the groAvth as it becomes more marked develops into small yellowish-red nodules, around which delicate branched processes spread out. These yellowish masses soon run together, and at the end of seven or eight days are covered with a delicate fluffy white layer. This organism grows especially well under anaerobic conditions and at the body temperature. On microscopic examination, cocci, segmented threads, the longer threads and the clubs were all found, and when the threads or cocci were inoculated into the peritoneal cavity of rabbits or subcutaneously in calves, a typical actinomycosis was set up. The actinomyces lives outside the body, on barley and other cereals, from, which it is supposed to make its way by the tonsils, where it has been found in the crypts, both in the human subject and in the pig. It may also be introduced through wounds, especially in horses and cattle that are cast and operated upon on a straw bed; even accidental scratches of the skin, mouth and pharynx may allow of the entrance of the organism, whilst it is thought that in certain cases it may make its way along the mammary ducts. The leptothrix foiun is that which is most frequently met with in the human subject. {See Art. XV. page 316.) Mycetoma or Madura foot.—Closely allied to the actinomyces is the fungus found in mycetoma or Madura foot, which has recently been described by several writers in Great Britain, and has been cultivated by Surveyor and Boyce. It appears to be a streptothrix "rowing slowly on glycerine-agar at the body temperature, the form cultivated was from the white variety of the disease, and did not form pigment. There is true dichotomous branching of the filaments. To the naked eye the growth is a prominent, somewhat tough growth, which is divided almost like the ovum of a frog, first into four and then into eight or even more segments. Expenmental inoculation gives rise to local irritation only. (See Art. XV.)