261 AGE. thirty five and fifty. The mortality is lowest between the ages of five Jnd fifteen, and these years certainly give the best results fiom onerations and injuries of almost every kind. Aftei fifteen the dLth-rate begins steadily but slowly to increase. The variation between the whole period from twenty to forty is not considerable, Lt the risk of death after operation is twice as great in patients between those ages as it is in individuals under twenty. In patients ovm-forty the mortality is nearly three times m excess of the rate observed in patients under twenty. The increase in the iisk of death between fifty and seventy is very rapid. _ In children wounds usually heal well; the patients organs are probably healthy and vigorous, and the nutritive activity ot the body is in its prime. Children show great recuperative power, and are free from the effects of that mental anxiety which often acts so iniuriously upon adults. They are able, moreover, to endure a long confinement in bed and a tedious suppuration with compara- tively little ill effect. On the other hand, children suffer severely from shock and the effects of acute pain. Pain, if unrelieved, may in a few hours reduce a child to a state of collapse. Shock is certainly the chief danger in operations upon young and healthy children. It has been said that children bear the_ loss of blood badly. Htemorrhage must, however, be regarded relatively when coinparing children with adults. If the weight of the body be taken in con- junction with the amount of blood lost, it will be found that children bear hjemorrhage well, and, in the case of repeated bleedings, they bear it remarkably well. Operations should not be performed, if possible, during the first dentition. Children are then often restless and excitable, liable to digestive disturbances and to convulsions, and apt to develop a high temperature under little provocation. The natural restlessness of children is often an obstacle to the perfect success of an operation, and injuries in the region of the pelvis are apt to be complicated by the difiiculty of keeping the child clean. Of the influence of old age upon injuries and operations. Sir James Paget writes:—“Among the old there are even greater differences than among the young in the ability to recover from operations ; and age, if reckoned by years, is not the only thing we must estimate. . . . They that are fat and bloated, pale, with soft textures, flabby, torpid, wheezy, incapable of exercise, looking older than their years, are very bad. They that are fat, florid, and plethoric, firm-skinned and with good muscular power, clear-headed and willing to work like younger men, are not, indeed, good subjects for operation, yet they are scarcely bad. The old people that are thin and dry and tough, clear-voiced and bright-eyed, with good stomachs and strong wills, muscular and active, are not bad; they bear all but the largest operations very well. But very bad are they who, looking somewhat like these, are feeble and soft-skinned,