INJURIES OF BONES. 756 fractui’e (1 ig. 224). The newly-formed bone is very porous, the vascular channels being both large and numerous, and so arranged as to be at right angles, or at least oblique and to the surface, to tlie chief Haversian canals of the old bone. At first, and for some time, the stalactitic needle-like tubes, plates, and irregular masses of callus can be easily stripped off, leaving the bone apparently unaltered ; but, later, its vascular foramina and grooves are obviously enlai’ged where the callus has been separated, and their further enlargement renders the surface quite irregular (Fig. 219). This rarefaction of the compact bone renders it more like the porous callus ; a fine injection proves that the vascular spaces of old and new bone are continuous (Fig. 222); and later speci- mens show that fresh bone is deposited round the vessels in' these spaces—partly upon the old, partly upon the new, increasing the density of both, and establishing absolute continuity, so that the callus can no longer be chipped off. This condensation goes on until the bone about the fracture becomes more dense than normal; but the endosteal callus does not as a rule become so dense as the periosteal and intermediary. Nor does all the callus undergo this conden- sation ; much is soon absorbed. Callus is usually formed in excess, but perfect fixation tends to limit the amount of provisional callus. The firmer callus becomes, the less of it is wanted; the peripheral portion and any parts which bear no strain are absorbed; the removal of these leaves the more central portion, especially that situate in angles due to displacement, to bear the whole strain, and its density and strength increase. Increase in density normally keeps ahead of absorption, and foi months or years there is excess of callus of too great density. Gradually all that is unnecessary is removed, and a return to or towai’ds the normal external form is effected under the modelling influence of surrounding parts. The caUus acquires everyAvhere a compact surface-layer Hke that of normal bone. Within, cancellous tissue develops in accordance with the laws governing its development in normal bones; consequently, its main cancelli are in the lines of greatest pressure and tension, . and their arrangement in cases of displacement may be as ’ complex as it is in the neck of the femur (Fig. 220). In the Fig. 219. — Section of Femur of Boy of 14, who died of enteriti-s ihur weeks after an oblique fracture near junction of upper and middle third.s. The lower fragment has risen a little in front of and inside the upper. A fairly complete ring of porous callus unites the fragments, though not very firmly. The callus is in great ex- cess anteriorly in the angle due to displace- ment. The line of fracture is quite dis- tinct. Tire medullary canal was probably closed by new bone. The compact bone, where covered by cal- lus, is superficially toothed and more po- rous.