SYPHILIS. 410 and pits, necrosis of the outer table, and occasionally of the whole thickness of the calvarium are the chief forms met with. When necrosis is present, there is grave risk of meningitis or cerebral abscess supervening, and as soon as the sequestrum becomes loose it should be removed, for fear of its keeping in the pus (Fig. 84). (d) The clavicles, femora, tibiae, and the bones of the fore-arm. Nodes at the joint-ends or elsewhere along the shaft, sclerosis of the greater part of one of these long bones, less commonly central gummata, are met with in the case of each of them. (e) The sternum. Softening periosteal nodes, usually situated on the anterior surface, form the chief syphilitic lesion of this bone. We may note with regard to these and other bones that syphilitic Pig. 84,—Upper Surface of the Prontal Bone of an Adult, showing a rounded, smooth faced depression, the floor of which was formed by the inner table. a. This had heen produced by a pericranial guinina, and there had been no necrosis or suppuration. A second similar excavation, b, contained a small seQuestrum, c, and the suppuration round this had led to perforation ol the skull and fatal meningitis. nodes are often situated at and involve the attachment of important muscles to the bone thus the insertion of the masseter muscle to the lower jaw, the origin of the pectoralis major from clavicle, sternum, and ribs, the sterno-mastoid from the clavicle, the gastro- cnemius from the femui’, are all rather favourite sites for such nodes or gummata. The frequent strain of these muscles on the periosteum has very probably something to do with this fact. Few, if any, of the long bones can be said to be exempt from syphilitic lesions. One interesting, but rare form of disease of the phalanges of fingers or toes, has been termed syphilitic dactylitis. In this there is usually gummatous deposit round the phalanx (especially those of the first row) in connection with the periosteum, and there may be central or medullary disease as well. The finger or toe becomes greatly swollen, the skin congested and ultimately