90S DISEASES OE HONES. trouble, is most frequently multiple, and most often first seen before the complete ossification of the skeleton. It is always capped witli cartilage, from which it appears to grow, and is nearly always placed close to an epiphysial line (Figs. 348, 349). An osteoma of tliis class 'vill be seen on section to be composed of open cancellous tissue, which is directly continuous with that of the bone on -wliich it is placed, the cortical tissue at that spot being absent. The removal of such a growtli was, for this reason, fonnerly looked upon iis a dangerous pro- cedure, as the operation ex- posed tli9 medullary tissue to wound infection, winch was then the bHe noir of surgery. It is not uncommon to find a larse number of these osteo- mata, Avhich ai’e then more or less symmetrically distributed at the epipliysial ends of the long bones, especially the femora, the tibiae, and the humeri. In such cases there is generally, as before stated, a family history of similar growths. They are most frequently seen about the age of puberty or earlier, and one or more may assume large proportions. They gene- rally cease to groAv when com- plete ossification has taken place in the bone to Avhicli they are attached. The ca]i of cartilage then ossifies, and becomes continuous Avith the cortical bone of the shaft. When subjected to pressure or friction, a bursa is frequently found tipon its summit. An osteoma may, hoAvever, arise much later in life, and is then, as a rule solitary. In such circumstances it may grow to a very large size, producing an irregularly lobulated tumour of bone, Avith a comparatively small peduncle. From its position, a cancellous osteoma may g.A'e nse to a A-ery <u-aA-e inconvenience. It may interfere with the movements of a mint, or, being placed on the inner side of the knee, prevent the •patient from grasping the saddle in riding, or, growing from the inner side of the humerus, project the arm from the side In its Fig. 349. View from Itehind of the Specimen shown in Fig. 348.