ULCERATION. 122 cautery, the pliagedsenlc material being scraped away in the first instance, and the part left being then very thoroughly cauterised. Some surgeons have advocated the use of caustic potash or nitric acid in preference to the actual cautery, but nitric acid especially seems to be inefficient, in that it leads to coagulation of the albumen, which stops the penetration of the acid. Subsequent to the application of the destructive agent, a dressing of strong carbolic oil (1 to 5) is perhaps the best. II. THE CHRONIC INFECTIVE ULCER. The chief ulcers which belong to this group are those which are due to tuberculosis and syphilis. These will be described in detail in the proper articles, and I need only refer in one or two words to the chief points. (See Arts. XVI. and XX) As regards the ulcerations of the skin due to tubercle, we have the condition known as ordinary tuberculous ulcer, which is characterised more especially by undermining of the skin for a considerable distance around the edges of the ulcer, this undermined skin beino’ extremely tender if a probe be pushed in under it, and being of a reddfsh colour (Fig. 19). The surface of the ulcer is generally pale without proper granulations, and with caseating material here an there These tubercular ulcerations of the skm usually follow the formation and bursting of an abscess, either in the submitaneous tissue, in a gland, or in some deeper part; and the great difficulty in healing, apart from the presence of the specific tuberculous disease, is the presence of this very thin undermined skin has no tendency whatever to adhere to the deeper parts. This difficulty u nartlv due to the extreme thinness and want of nutrition ot the skini in some cases, also, to the fact that epithelium has already spread over the deeper surface, starting sometimes from the bottom of a hair follicle which has been opened mto and thus we an epithelial-covered surface opposed to the granulating surface. W he e hLling does occur, portions of this undermined skm usually slough, while the rest shrinks and forms a lumpy, unsightly scar. (Se. ^ The other*^typical ulceration of the skin is the result of the ulcerating form of lupus, the character of this being ^ base with imperfect granulations, and around the edge of the ulcer thT presence ^of numerous nodules often P-«-tmg the apple-ielly appearance, which again break down and thus lead to t exLion of the sore (Fig. 21). There are various nf tbp skin but the great characteristic of them all . what I have described, namely, the rough, imperfectly granulating base, and the presence of these nodules amund, someU^^^ forming