1089 HIP JOINT DISEASE. Whp.n there is much destruction.—Now, althougli motlerate tuberculous synovitis may be recovered from, with little or no damage to the functions of the joint, it is otherwise when the synovial affection is neglected, and the tubercles break down into caseous matex’ial and ulcers are formed, from which the disease may spread to all the surfaces of the articulation, or, when the morbid process starts, in the bones themselves. Here a complete restoration of the functions of the part is almost impossible. The surfaces are sure to bo destroyed, and, in addition, there are very often portions of necrosed tissue set free in the joint, which will keep up irritation almost indefinitely. It becomes a question, therefore, whether in such cases, inasmuch as the best result which can be expected is a stiff and usually more or less deformed joint, we cannot by operative measures arrest the spread of the disease before it has completely disoi'ganised the part. This is a question of the utmost difficulty, and has been variously answered by diffisrent surgeons of large experience. On the one hand, there are those who take a rather gloomy view of the possibilities of operative surgery in this direction, and who persist in the treatment of the affection for years by splints and rest, opening abscesses where necessai'y, scraping and draining them, but abstaining from every other attempt in the direction of a more radical extirpation of the disease. On the other hand, there is a school of surgeons who, regarding tuberculous disease very much in the same light as they do malignant new growths, attack it as early as possible before it has extensively interfered with the surfaces of the joint, and thus seek to eradicate it at a stage in which there is a prospect of preserving the functions in whole or in part. In tbe case of the hip I adopt a middle course. I regard tuberculous disease as in many cases purely local and eradicable, but at the same time as curable with- out operation. And, moreover, I have arrived at the conviction that, when it has to be removed, it should be dealt with by as limited an operative procedure as possible, compatibly with complete evacuation of the locally-diseased tissue. Briefly stated, my line of action in these cases would be as follows :—Always and in every case to endeavour by rest and other local treatment in the earliest stages, combined with the best constitutional treatment, to arrest the progress of the aflec- tionj but when the latter has gone on to undoubted destruc- tion of the surfaces of the joint and abscess within it, to operate for the removal of the contents of tlie latter before they have made wide ravages in the joints and surrounding structures. At the same time, such operations are to be as limited as possible. For instance, all hip joints which are seen at an early stage of the tuberculous disease are at once treated by rest on sjflints, etc. And as long as these means appear to keep the morbid pi’ocess in check they are persevered in. But when it becomes evident that liquefaction of the soft tissues of the joint is taking place, and that the bones are becoming destroyed, I feel justified in