322 SUBGIOAL DISEASES DUE TO PARASITES. Mode of infection.—The ripe proglottides and globular thick- walled eggs expelled with the fffices of the dog are distributed over pastures and edible vegetables, and reach supplies of drinking water, and are therewith ingested by man. The egg loses its chitinous capsule in the alimentary canal, and the small embryo, provided with six hooks, migrates into the tissues, afterwards undergoing cystic transformation. A period of five months elapses before the cyst reaches the size of a pigeon’s egg, the stage at which scolices and brood capsules begin to develop. Morbid anatomy.—As with other parasites, the entrance of the embryo into the tissues gives rise to irritation and the formation of a surrounding zone of small-celled infiltration, which gradually de- velops into a well-formed fibrous capsule — the ectocyst of Huxley. Loosely attached within this is the true cyst wall, or endocyst, of Huxley. This appears yellowish or dull white, and consists of two elements; the first, a highly elastic chitinous membrane arranged in concentric laminae, the inner layers being those last foimed. When set free, this membrane curls up in a highly characteristic manner, the outer layers of the wall being firmer than the inner, and microscopic examination reveals the striation due to its lamination. Within this layer is found the germinal membrane, composed of cells, granular matter, particles of carbonate of lime, muscular tissue, and a water vascular system. A cyst so composed may remain sterile (acephalocyst), and yet attain a considerable size; more commonly the germinal or paren- chymatous layer gives origin to numerous brood capsules, scolices, and daughter cysts. The hrood capsules originate, when the parent cyst has reached the size of a walnut, as small hollow elevations of the parenchy- matous layer, and from these numerous scolices—as many as thirty or forty—may be developed. The scolex represents the head of the entire tapeworm; it varies in length from to of an inch. It is solid, cylindrical in form, somewhat egg-shaped posteriorly, whence a stalk containing nutrient vessels and muscular tissue con- nect it to the parent cyst wall; when detached the scolex dies (Fig. 57). The anterior part, separated from the remainder by a slight con- striction, the neck, bears four suction-discs, and a central rostellum with a double crown of booklets. The latter may be projected when dead, but earlier lies retracted in a canal formed by the invaginated neck. The body of the scolex contains numerous calcareous particles.