1044 DISEASES OF JOINTS. When the part recovers with only fihi’ous thickening, much may be done to bring back its movements by massage, combined witli passive motion and cold douches. Tliesc measures, patiently con- tinued for long periods, are productive of the greatest benefit. Forcible movement, on the other hand, under an ansesthcitic is to be deprecated where the disease has been very chronic. If this be done, the disease may be set alight again, or the fused surfaces, being torn apart, will only unite again, or, finally, the atrophied bones may be broken by the force applied. (2) Syphilitic and (3) tuberculous synovial disease.— The group of synovial affections, characterised in the main by more passive hyperaemia and sluggish cell proliferation, must now engage our attention. This will include syphilitic and tuberculous disease. 2. Syphilitic synovial disease.—It is necessary fo remark here, however, that in this group is not included that form of sub- acute synovitis often noticed early in the secondary stage of syphilis, which differs but little from, if it be not identical with, what we have been considering under the heading of subacute septic synovitis. The congestion and hyper-secretion here seen in the joints are analogous to what is often seen at the same time in the mucous membrane of the throat, larynx, and bronchi at the outset of the secondary sequelae, which last for a short time, and then disappear spontaneously, but only to be followed soon by the more obvious cutaneous syphilides. The synovitis here is probably either duo to ordinary septic infection, produced at the same time that the specific syphilitic poison is grafted on the system, or to the irritfation of the syphilitic poison, as yet not sufficiently developed to produce those plastic changes familiar to us in the later secondary and tertiary stages. It is probably this milder form of synovial affection without marked effusion which gives rise^to those so-called “prodromal pains” in the joints and deeper parts of the back, so often met with at the outset of syphilitic infection. Possibly the joints of the spine are the seat of some of them, as well as those larger articulations which we can see, and which are also the seat of these pains. {See also pages 430 and 1061.) Patliology.—The syphilitic synovial disease, which is here con- trasted with tuberculous disease, is not like that just alluded to. It is a slow hyperplastic change in the synovial membrane, which comes on late in the course of the constitutional affection, whether it be acquired or congenital. In the latter form it is quite as common as in the formei', if not more so. All the components of the joint may be affected, but the change is generally seen in the soft parts and, above all, in the synovial tissues. T1i6 change consists in a small-celled infiltration—in other words, in a diffused gummatous formation. To the naked eye the latter has a close resemblance to the granulation tissue of tuberculous disease. When the cells are aggregated in jnasses, we have before us a true gumma. But, as a rule, the infiltration is diflused evenly, like ordinary chronic inflammation, and not in ‘‘systems liko