BOILS. 711 in order to prevent recurrence. Upwaril papillary projections con- taining vessels may occur in the base, but the ha'inorrhagc is only .sii'dit during their removal, which is the oidy treatment advisable, it'should be remembered tliat occasionally a horny growth occurs with an epithelioma at its base, and this has been seen several times in a part of skin for long the site of common lupus. In such a case it is, of course, necessary to excise both horn and epithelioma (the latter having a curious structure somewhat sug- gesting that of a sebaceous gland), and if this is done freely the prognosis is fairly good. {See Art. XXII. i>age 476.) Boils (furunculi) and carbuncles.--It is convenient to dis- cuss these together, since it is impossible to draw a sharp distinction between the two. It may be said that whilst a boil is a small abscess developed around a hair-bulb and its glandular appendages, and discharging by a single orifice, a carbuncle involves a definite slough of connective tissue, and presents several openings lor the dis- charge (page 136). The micro-organisms which play an important part in both are probably identical (the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus being the chief); the favourite sites for both are the back of the neck and trunk, the perineum and buttocks; and a similar condition of ill-health may predispose to the development of either. Cniises.—With regard to carbuncles, diabetes mellitus is occa- sionally found in their subjects, but this is quite exceptional, and we may roughly classify the predisposing causes of boils and carbuncles thus:— 1. The debility met with in convalescence from typhoid and other fevers. 2. Insufiicient animal food, or a diet imperfect in other ways : thus excess of the nitrogenous elements may be to blame (butchers, for instance, are very liable to develop boils). 3. A sudden change of diet and habits, as, for instance, in I'owing men or athletes who have just gone into training. 4. General privation, long-continued work in a close unhealthy atmosphere, chronic renal disease, etc. Great importance, however, must be attached to local inocula- tion with the micrococcus mentioned above, which is identical with that which in young subjects may produce acute osteo-myelitis. And in many cases of the latter grave disease there is reason to think that the organisms have entered the circulation by means of some cutaneous boil. Conversely, experunent has proved that friction on the skin with a little pus from a case of acute diffuse periostitis will lead to a crop of boils, having their origin around the hair-bulbs. It must be remembered tbat many micro-organisms (including the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus) can be found at times on perfectly healthy skin, and the reason why boils and car- buncles are so common on the nape of the neck and buttocks is no doubt that these parts are peculiarly subject to friction and chafing from the clothes, and hence to inoculation. The common cases of