808 INJUlilES OF BONES. the detection of mobility or crepitus on pressing on the tip of the coracoid, and the discovery in this neighbourhood of a displaced fragment. Usually the dense fibrous tissue round about prevents the muscles attached to the tip from dragging the fragment far. Action of these muscles should be specially painful. Serious complications, in the way of injuries to neighbouring bones and soft parts, must be expected. A sling till pain subsides is the best treatment. Union is fibrous in fractures of the tip (Fig. 245). (4) The surgical neck is the seat of a very rare fracture from direct violence. The fragment consists of the glenoid fossa and of the process, and crepitus when it and the heau of the humerus are grasped and moved, whilst the scapula is fixed by the other hand; presence of a mass high in the axilla, in which the fragment may sometimes be distinguished from the head of the humerus; the elbow lies against the side. UpAvard pressure on the elbow remedies the deformity easily, but it recurs immediately the sup])ort is removed, points which, with crepitus, distinguish the accident from a dislocation. Perfect movement of the head with the shaft eliminates fracture of the neck of the humerus. If, as in one of Sir A. Cooper’s cases, a fracture of the clavicle outside the ligaments is also present, the lengthening of the arm (measured from the acromial angle), due to falling of the inner fragment of the collar bone under the weight of the limb suspended from it, is considerable; the acromial fragment in Cooper’s case over-rode the internal. It is not quite clear why lengthening should occur from fracture of the neck of the scapula; possibly the statement is made on the authority of Cooper’s admirably described, but com- plicated case. coracoid process with the pectoralis minor, coraco- brachialis, both heads of the biceps, and more or less of the long head of the triceps attached to it. It will drop down and in— under the influence of the weight of the limb, and of the muscles of the axillary folds—as far as the coraco- clavicular ligaments and soft parts around the frac- ture will allow. The signs are said to be—flattening of the shoulder, tension of coracoid process, mobility