642 ANEURTSM. The introduction of wire into the sac lias also been practised, but not with such success as to justify its use. It has also been suggested that after introducing a coil of wire into the aneurysm, it should be connected with the positive pole of a battery; in this way the effect of the wire would be supplemented by the coagulating effect of the electricity and of the chloride of iron it produces. The distal ligature has also been practised, and with occasional suc- cess : thus one carotid artery—jiarticularly the left—or the carotid and subclavian artery, have been tied. Tliese opera- tions are themselves attended with consider- able risk; they liave sometimes been followed by aggravation of the aneurysm, and there is neither any satisfactory explanation of the rationale of the success- ful cases, nor guide as to when the operation has a prospect of suc- cess. For these reasons the distal ligature has not won the general ac- ceptance of surgeons. Abdominal aneu- rysm.—Aneurysm may occur in any part of the abdominal aorta, but it has been most often met with at its bifurcation, or near the origin of the cceliac axis. The mesen- teric, hepatic, and splenic arteries may also be the seat of aneurysm. These aneurysms, like others, may remain small, or become filled with coagulum; but they may attain an enormous size, and may rupture into the peritoneimi, subperitoneal tissue, stomach, intestine, or pleura. Symptoms*—These aneurysms may cause local discomfort merely, but if they erode the spine, the pain is severe—an aching, boring, or burning pain in the loins—while pressure on the lumbar plexus may cause pain in the scrotum or front of the thigh. A strong subjective sense of epigastric pulsation may be present ] Pig. 185.—Large Aneurysm oE the lunomiiiate Artery, which gi’ew liigh up iu the Neck and caused great Displacement of tlie Sternum, Clavicle and First Rib. The arch of the aorta is the seat of two fusi- form dilatations. (Museum, Middlesex Hospital.) A, Clavicle; B, aneurysm ; o, first rib; n, second rib; E, arch of aorta; E, left subclavian artery; c. right subclavian artery; h, innoiTiinate artery; i. left carotid artery; K, right carotid artery ; l, sternum.