437 TREATMENT follows their long-continued presence, and the fibrous organisation of this exudation will inevitably lead to narrowing of the urethral A "leet is very liable to exacerbations under the following conditions :—Alcoholic excess, sexual intercourse, or even nocturnal emissions, and the injudicious use of injections. Great difterences exist in these respects, especially as regards the use of alcohol, for whilst some patients are obliged rigidly to abstain, others find that a moderate use of stimulants has not the slightest effect upon the amount of discharge. It is important to forbid sexual intercourse so long as there is a definite discharge, for a double reason; but when the only reminder is the occasional occurrence of scanty flakes in the urine, it becomes a most difficult problem to decide. Whilst it is probably best (for fear of contagion) that such a case should abstain, it is certain that many men in this condition many and that their wives do not always suffer on this account. The treatment of gonorrhoea.—This consists mainly in givmg internally certain drugs (sandal wood oil, copaiba, cubebs, etc.), which are excreted by the kidneys, and have a decided power in checking the urethral discharge; and in the local use of antiseptic and astringent injections. Various opinions are held as to the relative value of these two measures, and whilst it is generally advisable to employ both, the careful and thorough use of suitable injections is probably the most important. In treating gonorrhoeal ophthalmia we rely entirely on local measures, and when the same poison attacks the urethral mucous membrane, they are equally called for. If the case is seen within a day or two of the onset, the following abortive treatment may be employed* The urethra is rendered insensitive by cocaine after the patient has first passed his water. The endoscope is then introduced, and the posterior limit of the inflammation made out so far as is possible. A solution of ten or twenty grains of nitrate of silver is then swabbed over the whole of the affected area. The patient should rest for twenty-four hours, and then use a weak boracic acid and sulphate of zinc injection for a few days, unless the return of the discharge should require a second application of the nitrate, or the use of a stronger injection. It is equally eflicient, and certainly less risky, for the patient to begin at once by injecting a solution of sulphocarbolate of zinc (two to five grains to the ounce) three or four times a day, or oftener, and by taking fifteen or twenty minims of sandal wood oil thrice daily. The bowels must be kept well open by aperients, all stimulants must be abstained from, diluents (barley water, soda-water, etc.) freely drunk, and the patient should keep as quiet as his circumstances will allow (it is rarely possible or necessary that he should remain in bed for several days). The injections should always be made after the patient has to * This method we owe to the late Mr. Cotes. Whilst imdouhtedly effective in some early cases, it is one requiring considerable trouble and expenditure of time on the part of the surgeon, and is very painful, unless cocaine has been thoroughly used.