457 ODONTOMATA. This cyst \vall represents the follicle of an unerupted tooth. The cavity of the cyst is occupied by viscid fluid and the crown of an unerupted tooth. Ex- ceptionally the tooth is loose in the cyst. It may be inverted; usually tlie root is truncated —incompletely deve- loped, due to non-erup- tion (Fig. 105)—and rarely the tooth is ab- sent. The cyst wall contains calcareous mat- ter, and occasionally bone. 3. Fibrous odon- tomes.— Every tooth before its eruption is enclosed in a capsule of fibrous tissue—the tooth sac. This capsule occasionally becomes thickened, and so thoroughly encysts the tooth that it is never erupted, and is sometimes completely suppressed. Microscopically these odontomes are made up of wavy laminae of fibrous tissue, intermixed with calcareous matter. This species has in the past been confounded with myeloid sarcoma. 4. Cementomes.—When the tooth sac becomes enlarged, as in the preceding species, and the fibrous tissue ossifies, the tooth becomes embedded in a mass of hard tissue identical with cementunx An odontome of this character is called a cementoma. At present they are unknown in man, but are met with in horses, and in these animals grow to a very large size. Specimens are known weigliing fifty, sixty, and seventy ounces. 5. Compound' follicular odon- tomes.—When the tliickened capsules of one or more unerupted teeth become confluent and ossify sporadically, a tumour is produced containing one or more denticles and fragments of cementum. Such tumours are known as compound follicular odontomes. Several examples have been carefully recorded. Some of these tumours have contained twenty and others forty denticles. In a few of the re- corded cases some of the denticles erupted and stood above the gum. On their removal, other ill-formed teeth appear, and then a thorough search revealed the existence of a collection of denticles withm a capsule. Compound follicular odontomes occur in the maxilla as well as in the mandible. Fig 105.—Follicular Odontome.