356 TUJ3EB0UL08IS. It has been said by some writers that any condition of ill-health may render a patient tuberculously disposed, but this is not so. The distribution of tuberculosis is not identical with the distribution of mere ill-health. There is much evidence to show, however, that there is a certain amount of truth in the statement. In support of this, the following illustrative cases may be given as representa- tive of quite considerable classes. (1) A medical man had had three perfectly healthy children, and then acquired syphilis through a scratch on the thumb when performing an operation. There was no tuberculous history in his own family, nor in his wife’s. He lived apart from his wife for two years. A fourth child was then born. It showed no signs of in- herited syphilis, but it became the subject, when twelve years of age, of most extensive tuberculous disease. (2) The youngest child of a large family was the only one that exhibited any signs of tubercle. The father and mother were en- tirely free from that affection, but the child in question was the only child born after the father had developed Bright’s disease. (3) A woman of 20, born of perfectly healthy parents, and with no tuberculous history in the family, developed a con- siderable mass of tuberculous glands in the neck. Until she was 18^ she had been living in comfortable circumstances. She then became very poor, and had to support herself. After work- ing for some months in a close ill-ventilated room the glands appeared. If by the term a “ tuber- culous individual ” it is intended Individual. to imply a person prone to tubercle foi’mation, it will be evident from what has just been said that that individual can hardly be expected to present any common general characteristics. There is indeed, no physiognomy peculiar to and diagnostic of tuberculosis. While a large proportion of the patients present no chai-acteristics which can be accepted as the basis for a type, it will be evident— especially when children and young adults are the subjects of the inquiry that there are some features met with so often among the tuberculous, that it is possible roughly to classify the majority of the individuals in two classes. The distinguishing characteristics of the two classes are, of course, not always so'marked as they are in the following description 1. Tlie fine or sanguine type.—The children have tine and regular features, well-shaped limbs, and delicate hands (Fig. 68).