438 GONORBECEA. some extent cleansed the urethra by micturition. The nozzle of the syringe (glass or rubber) should be inserted well within the meatus, from one to four drachms slowly injected, so as to distend the urethra, and held in for a few minutes. In many cases treated by this plan all trace of discharge disappears within a week or ten days; but the treatment should be continued for at least a fortnight after this has occurred, diminishing the strength of the injection. The patient must be warned against dancing, bicycle-riding, or other severe exercise for a few weeks, and sexual intercourse and alcohol must also be forbidden. Other useful injections are:—(1) chloride of zinc (one to two grains to the ounce); (2) sulphate of zinc (two to five grains); (3) nitrate of silver (half to one grain) (this stains the linen, is more painful than most other injections, and on this account is not to be recommended as a routine measure) ; (4) sulphate of alum (five grains to the ounce); (5) bichloride of mercury (1 in 6,000, increasing in strength). Sometimes extract of belladonna is added to the zinc solutions (ten grains with half a drachm of mucilage), but the sulphocarbolate at least causes so little discomfort that this is rarely necessary. In a few cases the swelling of the mucous membrane about the meatus is so great that the mechanical act of injecting cannot be borne, and then the old plan of waiting until the inflam- matory stage has subsided, whilst giving bicarbonate of potash and tincture of hyoscyamus with buchu, may well be employed. In the stage of gleet it is often necessary to vary the injection from time to time. Amongst those not already mentioned, which may prove useful, are—the four sulphates (one gram each of sulphate of alum, zinc, copper, and iron to the ounce), solutions of tanmc acid, acetate of zinc, or resorcin. The oil of yellow sandal wood is preferred to copaiba and cubebs for internal administration, because (1) it rarely disagrees with the stomach, if taken within two hours of food; (2) it is free from the risk of causing a general erythematous eruption. The dose of the oil is fifteen or twenty minims, given in gelatine capsules, or in a mixture with mucilage, syrup, and cinnamon water. It is apt to be adulterated, so that care should be taken to procure the oil trom a a trustworthy source. For a description of the copaiba rash see Article XXVIII. . , ,, Complications of gonorrhoea.—The followmg, amongst the complications of gonorrhoea, have already been alluded to; (1) Retention of m’ine during the acut.e stage (it may also occur from alcohoHc excess at a later period); (2) chordee; (^3) epididymitis; and (4) stricture. ^ / cy tT- i tt The last two are treated elsewhere in this work, {bee Vol. Art. LL, on Injuries and Diseases of the Urinary Organs, and Art LII., on Injuries and Diseases op the Testis, Scrotum, AND Penis.) It may here be noted that only a small proportion of •cases of gonorrhoea ever develop a stricture, and that a m^ may have many attacks and yet escape this formidable complication. IS ever-