53i INJURIES OF RLOOD-VESSELH. increased redness and heat in the part, wliich gradually subside as the tissues recover their full vitality. A similar eilect is seen after the removal of an Esmarch’s bandage; the pallid anajinic tissues blush, and then gradually resume tlieir natural appearance. In some cases the sudden anaemia is attended with severe pain in the part, and in the case of an embolus the sudden acute pain may be associated with tenderness of the empty arteries. Finally, the part is generally a little shrunken and cold, owing to the blood supply being below the normal. The treatment of such a part requires care. It should be placed in the position most favourable to the circulation. As a rule, this is slightly raised, with the joints a little flexed. It should be swathed in cotton wool, kept in place by a loosely- applied flannel bandage, and outside this a hot bottle should be placed. Great care must be taken not to have any tight bandage, splint, or other application, nor any hot bottle next the surface, nor ex- posure of the part to cold. Any such injury may lead to gangrene from intei- ference with the circulation, or from its direct lethal influence upon the ansemic, almost lifeless, tissues. In the later stages gentle massage promotes the circulation in the part. Gangrene after ligature or wound of an artery. Causes.—One of the dangers of the ligature of a main artery in its continuity or of its division in a wound is gangrene. It may be of the “dry” or the “moist” variety, the tissues in the one case dying from the insufiicient supply of blood, and in the other from failure of the causes of “ dry gangrene ” after ligature artery are disease or degeneration of Fiy. 158.—Sliowing' Effects of Ligature of Femoral Artery. (After Porta.) a, Femoral artery of a dog ; h, obli- terated portion of artery: c, c, anastomosing vessels in sartorius and pectineus. an great venous circulation. The or sudden occlusion of the heart weakening the force of the arterial circulation hmmorrhage lessening the blood pressure, extensive disease of the arteries—either atheroma or calciflcation—preventing their enlarge- ment for the anastomotic circulation, the obstruction of a considerable length of an artery, or the formation of a thrombus in a diseased artery when the feeble stream of blood first reaches it through the anastomosing vessels. In certain situations there is special difficulty in enlarging the anastomosing vessels, as when they run, like the vertebral and internal carotid, through bony channels; tight bandag- ing would have the same effect. Dry gangrene most often occurs. therefore, in the aged, or after a profuse htemorrhage. Ilorsley has shown that when the common or internal carotid is ligatured the