DISLOCATIONS. 962 end of ulna, 9; upper end of radius, 6 ; wrist, 6; thumb, 39; fingers, 17. The frequency of shoulder dislocations is accounted for by the joint being mainly dependent for its security upon muscles, and also for other reasons, which will be hereafter stated. The power of leverage of a long bone in producing dislocation is well shown in the hip. It is difficult to understand how displacement of this articulation could occur, were it not for the effects of indirect violence acting at great mechanical advantage. Predisposing causes.—Accidents which generally need con- siderable violence to produce them are, of necessity, more common in the male sex, in active adult life, than in females or young children. Occupations, as mining, machinery-work, and the like, predispose to these injuries. Congenital laxity of the ligaments is an important cause; and some professed acrobats, as the celebrated Warren, have the power of spontaneously dislocating certain joints. Many individuals are able partially to displace the thumb at the meta- carpo-phalangeal joint, owing to laxity of the capsule and lateral ligaments. . ... ^ , The weakness and laxity of ligaments following injuries of joints with effusion, as a bad sprain, is an undoubted predisposing cause of dislocation; and exposed joints, as the shoulder, are more liable to suffer than others. Once a joint has been dislocated, it may readuy be awain put out. Previous disease, with excessive synovial dis- tension, may predispose to dislocation. Knock-knee is said to render the patella prone to become displaced. Paralysis of muscles round a iouit also renders the articulation insecure. .i Exciting causes.—In some cases this is violence applied directly to the displaced bone, as when a heavy blow on the thumb in fighting dislocates the first phalanx. Far more commonly the force is indirect, as when the head of the femur is dislocated from a heavy fall on the foot of an abducted limb. Some “ball and socket joints, as the shoulder, have been dislocated by muscular action alone, as in the spasms of epilepsy, the act of swimmmg, or striking out at and missing an adversary. The lower jaw and patella are known to be displaced by muscular action alone. Whenoncea bone is dislocated, the^ action of the muscles in drawing it mto secondary positions IS very important and marked. Sometimes muscular action per- sistently reproduces a dislocation (recurrent dislocation). _ Then there is undue laxity of the ligaments, or want of union in them after the primary injury, or concomitant fracture of an articulating surface^t^mie pa^^^^^^ «* lecent ti auinatic dislocations. The severity of the local injuries found in recent dislocations will ™ Urfy Witt tte disunce the bone ie thrown from rte proper conLctions^and the nature of the violence which produced t the wrenching or twisting movements inflicted on a limb entangled m powerful machinery being peculiarly licaments are always more or less lacerated, some of the short muscles