587 Aetiology of spontaneous aneurysm. disease occurs in the larger arteries, but it is as yet unproved that svnhilis leads to a special disease of large arteries, with a weakening of their coats, and therefore a predisposition to aneurysm. In many cases of aneurysm no cause for the condition has been found, except svnhilitic infection. . „ i i ^ Eviholic arteritis.—Y\\e impaction of an infective embolus in an artery leads to an inflammation of the vessel, with softening; and m these circumstances an aneurysm may develop. Idiopathic aneurysm in youn" people is believed to be always due to this cause; the miiitiple°aneurysms which sometimes occur in the course of acute rheumatism and ulcerative endocarditis have the same^ origin. Loss of support by absorption of the surrounding tissues has been supposed to be capable of so weakening an artery that it can no lon^r resist the force of the blood stream. Examples of this are said to be furnished in phthisical lungs, where aneurysms not un- frequently develop on the branches of the pulmonary artery exposed in the walls of cavities (Fig. 166); their rupture is a frequent cause of fatal luemoptysis. But it is by no means certain that these aneurysms result directly from the loss of support to the vessel. The more probable explanation is that the exposure of the artery leads to an inflammatory change in its walls which weakens the vessel and causes it to yield under the blood pressure. This yielding would be favoured by negative pressure in the lung cavity. A microscopical section of a branch of the pulmonary artery with a minute commencing aneurysm, in the possession of Dr. Percy Kidd, shows distinct thickening of the intima of the vessel, and supports the view that in this, as in every other form of spontaneous aneurysm, disease of the arterial wall precedes the development of the aneurysm. Under this head we must also mention injury causing a partial laceration of an artery. A contusion of an artery, or over-stretching it, as in violent extension of the knee or elbow, may not only snap a calcified middle coat, as mentioned in the previous chapter, but may burst a softened patch of atheroma, or displace a calcareous plate and allow the blood to force its way beneath its edge, or even tear some healthy part of a diseased artery. In either of these ways injury may so weaken an artery as to lead indirectly to the develop- ment of an aneurysm. Conditions increasing: the hlood-pressnre.—The blood- pressure in the arteries may be raised by increased cardiac action or by greater resistance in the capillaries and arterioles, and by plethora; but the over-action of the heart is the most important in the setiology of aneurysm. This over-action is especially excited by sudden, intermittent, and unwonted efiPort or strain. The heart and blood-vessels accommodate themselves to continuous hard work ; but when an unusual effort is made, especially if of the nature of a sudden strain, the blood pressure is materially I’aised. A like effect is produced by great excitement or violent passion, by alcohol, and by cardiac hypertrophy. Plethora is a cause of increased blood