668 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF LYMPHATICS. Lymphadenitis. Syinptoms.-As described in tl.e precedino section inflammation of the lymphatic glands is generally due to the absorption of septic material, although the effects may be first Jv- ceptible in the glands, and no traces of its passage along the lymphatics may have been evident When the process is acute, the symptoms are well marked and the diagnosis is easy. Pyrexia of greater or less intensity, often accompanied with rigors, precedes a feelina of swelling, with pain of dull aching character, rapidly becoming more acute and throbbing, and situated in the known position of lymphatic ^ i ^ ^ movement of the limb or part affected is extremely painful. Sometimes a single gland, sometimes a whole chain, is attacked, ihe swelling increases, the skin for some distance around becomes cedematous, and afterwards red and tender. So soon as suppuration has taken place the pain may be less severe, but the swelling increases. Pus may form in several portions of the gland at once, or the whole may be converted into an abscess, confined by the fibrous structures of the gland. At the same time, the sur- rounding parts break down, and an abscess is formed in the loose cellular tissue, which may spread over a large area. The changes that take place affect all the component parts of the gland. The fibious cortex is first affected, and becomes thickened by the increase in size and number of its blood-vessels, and by the exudation of blood and leucocytes. The follicles of adenoid tissue are at first red and hyperiemic, but soon become paler as the corpuscles are con- verted into pus-cells. Thus small collections of jius are formed, and these, by coalescing, convert the whole structure into an abscess, confined by the fibrous coat of the gland, which gradually softens, and allows the matter to escape into the already inflamed and sup- purating cellular tissue. Other glands in the chain may become inflamed and follow the same extreme course. The process, however, may fall short of this condition and assume the subacute form. In this, all the component tissues, and particularly the fibrous portions of the gland, become congested and swollen, but ]ms is not formed in the surrounding cellular tissue ] and if it occur in the substance of the follicles, the collections do not coalesce, the gland subsides to a smaller size, but remains larger than natui’al and is prone to recurrent attacks of inflammation on slight provocation. A further and subsequent change may result in calcification either of a part or of the whole gland. Sometimes the substance of the gland breaks down, forming what is known as a ewpijurating bubo, and the skin gi’adually becoming involved, the contents are discharged on the surface, and a sinus is formed, which leads down to the necrosing tissue of the gland. In cases where the primary inflammation is of a simple nature {symjmthetic bubo), this readily admits of cure, but when it is due to the absorption of a specific virus, as from a soft chancre, the discharge from the suppurating gland has not only the same characteristics as that from the primary sore, and is likewise inoculable, but will cause the suri’ounding tissue to break down even to a considerable distance, and to present the