f>32 INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. artery is reduced in the same way from -72 mm. to -51 mm- (Fig. 153). Tliese differences represent the extremes met with in large ai’teries. It is very important to remember the tenuity of the walls of living functional arteries. Still more noteworthy is the extreme thinness of the outer coat of large arteries. Thus in the innominate artery the outer coat is only about one-fourteenth of the whole, in the common carotid artery one-twenty-fifth, and in the superficial femoral artery a little more than a quarter of the entire arterial wall. For the smaller arteries the proportion is considerably modified, but in the larger vessels, which are most often the seat of ligature in their continuity, if the liga- ture severs the inner and middle coats it leaves only a very thin layer of tissue to withstand the force of the circulation (Figs. 152, 154, 155). If, from imperfect tying of the liga- ture or its too rapid softening, the lumen of the artery is not occluded, a ring of fibrous tissue, or even a com- plete diaphragm, may form in the in- terior of the vessel without alteration in the vessel above and below. These “diaphragms” are caused by prolifera- tion of the cells of the intima, as a result of the compression of the liga- ture, and the subsequent development of this cushion of thickened intima into fibrous tissue. This effect may be pro- duced when the lumen of the artery has been merely narrowed, or tempor- arily occluded, or temporarily occluded with rupture more or less complete of its inner coats. (See Fig. 156.) When an artery is tied in its continuity, the pressure of the blood within it tends to loosen the first knot while the second is being made, and this in the case of the surgical knot as well as the reef knot. For this reason Ballance and Edmunds have recom. mended the “stay knot” (Fig. 157), which, they say, can be applied without any risk of this accident. The “stay knot” is made by using two strands of ligature material, making a simple knot with each singly, and then tying together each pair of ends. If the reef or surgical knot be used, the artery above should be compressed while it is being tied, so that the knot may not be exposed to the pressure of the blood until it is completed and secure against slipping. This liability for an arteiy which has been tied to become pervdous again is of great practical importance. It may render the operation a failure in its effects, as when an artery is tied for the cure of aneurysm. It also affords a very strong argument against so tying an arteiy as to rupture its inner coats, and leave only the thin and weak outer coat Pig. 156.—Naked-eye Appearance of a Human Carotid Artery 108 Days after Ligature with stout Catgut. The artery is patent hut its lumen is only 3 mm. in diameter, being con- tracted by a diaphragm.