VII. EEYSIPELAS. By 0. B. LOCKWOOD, K.R.C.S., Assistant-Surgeon to St. Bartholomeiv’s Hospital; Surgeon to the Great Northern , Hospital. Definition.—Erysipelas (Greek, epvdpog, reel; rriWa, skin) is a diffuse, acute, infective inflammation of the skin or mucous membrane, or of the skin or mucous membrane together with the subjacent cellular tissues, or of the cellular tissues, or of the serous membranes, and is always preceded or accompanied by constitutional symptoms, such as rigors, fever, and vomiting. Varieties.—Several clinical varieties of erysipelas are met with The classifleation of Nunneley is here followed. (1) When the inflammation is confined to the skin, the disease is called simple cutaneous erysipelas. Suppuration, except at the point of inoculation, is infrequent in this variety. (2) When the skin and cellular tissue are both involved, the disease is called cellulo-cutaneous or phlegmonous erysipelas. In this variety suppuration is the rule. There is no distinct clinical de- marcation betwixt cutaneous and cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas. In cutaneous erysipelas there is always some swelling and oedema of the subcutaneous cellular tissue; and in cellulo-cutaneous, or phlegmonous erysipelas, there is always some redness of the skin with vesication or bullse. (3) When erysipelatous inflammation spreads in the cellular tissues, with little or no implication of the skin, the disease is called cellulitis. In this form suppuration is the rule. By some writers cellulitis is not considered a form of erysipelas, but nevertheless the relationship is close. That cutaneous erysipelas may cause cellulitis there is no doubt. Simple erysipelas, cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas, and cellulitis are all associated with severe constitutional disturbances of a similar type. The exact relationship of these diseases will be further discussed in speaking of their pathology. It is sufficient to say here that as our knowledge of bacteriology increases, it becomes evident that diffuse inflammations of the cellular tissues of an ery- sipelatous type may be due to various kinds of infection. Clear and distinct clinical boundaries, as ah’eady hinted, do not exist between these three varieties of erysipelas. It is often