HYDROPHOBIA. 301 laid open and the whole of the hyperremic and cedematous area excised. The raw surface should then be thoroughly treated witli a solution of permanganate of potassium, which, when directly mingled Ih snake poison,“destroys it by oxidation (Wal^^. Calmette’s ex- periments show that snake poison is also rapidly rendered inert by the local application of a solution of hypochloride of lime, ihe aeneral treatment consists in combating the collapse with stimulants. Specific forms of treatment have been sought m the subcutaneous injection of ammonia and permanganate of potassium, but have proved of no avail. In Australia the administration, hypoder- mically, of strychnia in large doses appears to have been fol- lowed by successful results. It is given on the theory that it acts in direct antagonism to the snake poison; and hence it is claimed that large doses are necessary, and that poisonous doses are innocuous in persons sufiering from the effects of snake venom. In patients over fifteen, 10 to 25 minims of the liquor stryclmime, CO'. -J- to ‘ of the British Pharmacopoeia, are injected, and, as a rule, not more than half a grain of strychnia is needed. The rule laid down is that sufficient must be given to ensure the symptoms of Snake poison being overshadowed by those of the drug j and re- petition of the injections is indicated by any relapse in the symp- toms (Mueller). The treatment is now under trial in India under the auspices of the Government. in support of this method of treatment, putting aside the ques- tion of specific antagonism, may be mentioned the well-known action of strychnine ni improving the respiratory movements in cases of failing respiration during amesthesia produced for surgical purposes. RErEBENOBS. Wall: “ Indian Snake Poisons : Their Nature and Effects.” 1883. Fayrer; Proceedings of Medical Society of London. 1884. “TheThanatophidia of India,” 1872. Weu Mitchell and Reichert: “ Venoms of Poisonous Serpents.” 1872. A. Cahnette: “ Arm de I’lnst. Pasteur,” vol. viii. p. 275. MueUer: “ Snake Poison,” 1893. V. HYDROPHOBIA (RABIES). .ffltiology.—^This is a disease the primary occurrence of which is almost entirely limited to the dog, but is communicable by inocula- tion to other animals and to man. The disease, no doubt, depends on a specific virus, which, how- ever, has not up to the present been isolated. The experiments of Pasteur show that the virus and its products tend to accumulate chiefly in the nervous system, whence it can be readily obtained, and other animals inoculated. Further, material obtained from this source by a treatment of desiccation can be so modified as to be capable of employment as a preventive agent. Prolonged desicca- tion renders the virus inert. Although occurring in other animals than the dog, the majority of these suffer from the result of a dog’s bite; and the tendency of