1110 DISEASES OF JOINTS. could ever be restored, and a stiff, firm joint has been purposely aimed at. The knee has been put up in very slight flexion, so that the front of the foot should reach the ground first in walking. More- over’, this is the most comfortable position for the limb wlien stiff if the patient is sitting down. And in those cases where, either from atrophy from disuse, or from removal of diseased parts of the femur or tibia, the limb is shortened, the pointing of the toes will make up for the slight shortening. This atrophy from disuse must never be overlooked. It is not uncommon in cases where disease of the knee joint has existed, without any operative interference, perhaps, for years, to find that the tibia is shortened to the extent of an inch or so, and the femur as well. If we have not made careful measurement of the Umb before operation in such cases, we may be inclined to set down the loss of length of the leg to our interference, where really the latter has had nothing to do with the condition. But if the knee has been put up in a slightly bent position, it is necessary to guard against this flexion becoming greater, and this can only be done by the use of splints for months or, in some cases, years. This is always necessary in young children under ten years of age. Here, if a limited excision be done at all, and the cartilage on femur and tibia be left intact, or nearly so, the union between these surfaces must be flbrous. And if this be so, the soft bond of union is capable of being stretched to a considerable extent. How, children spend a great part of the twenty-four hours in bed or in a sitting position. As a rule, when thus in bed or seated, there is a great tendency to flex the knee into the position of greatest ease; and if this position be maintained for many hours daily, there is always a difficulty in restoring it to a straight position. Indeed, it has a tendency to grow more and more flexed, on account of the preponderating action of the hamstring muscles. ^ Bor this reason, in all young cases I insist upon the use of a straight splint, at all events at night, for months or years it may be after all trouble has been overcome in the knee. And inasmuch as among the poor and ill-educated a back splint is rarely properly attended to, I And it better to keep the limb in plaster-of-Paris for long periods. In this the patient can be allowed to walk about, and gradually the habit of keeping the limb straight becomes flxed, and it can be ultimately left off when all resiliency has ceased. In those cases, however, in which the cartilages have been re- moved by the knife or destroyed by disease, and where bony surfaces are brought in contact, the union is by bone, and the need of splints is not felt after two or three months. It must not be forgotten, however, that the ends of both femur and tibia in such cases have been softened by atrophy, the result of disuse. If under such conditions too much weight is thrown upon the hones before they have quite recovered their firmness, they may actually bend above ■ or below the joint, as in rickets, and antero-posterior or lateral flexion be the result. This is due to no fault in the operation, but is due