ANEURYSM. 628 Coinpi'ession and ligatura on tho distal side of au aneurysm are attertfled with the same amount of risk, and the ligature has the greater chance of leading to cure, as the clot formed about the ligature may extend into the aneurysm. 1 he coiicliisioiis we draw from these comsiderations ai’e as follow :— (а) Where there is reason to fear that the sudden obliteration of a large artery may embarrass the heart too much, cause the rupture or enlargement of an internal aneurysm, or produce gangrene of a limb, moderated compression is to be preferred. (б) Where the artery affected is known to be seriously diseased, compi'ession is to be chosen. (c) Where, in other cases, the patient is of an irritable or sensitive nature, and intolerant of restraint, or where the aneurysm is acute, of large size, rapidly-growing, and full of fluid blood, and it is therefore necessary to obtain a marked effect and a rapid result, the ligature is to be recommended. (d) Distal ligature is always to be preferred to distal com- pression. (e) Where compression of any particular artei-y is attended with special diflaculty or danger, its ligature is to be preferred {/) In the absence of any of these sjoecial conditions, compression should first be tried, the effect being as closely as possible approxi- mated to that of ligature. If it is not quickly successful, ligature should be practised. On tlie choice of the site of the lig^ature.—In all cases where it can be safely employed the proximal ligature is to be pre- ferred to the distal, because it more certainly arrests the circulation through the sac, and takes off “ the force of the circulation,” or diminishes the tension in the aneurysm. The proximal ligature may be applied close to the sac, or at some distance above it. The practice of Hunter, Scarpa, and the other great surgeons of the past century has been to choose a part of the artery well above the aneurysm, and, as a rule, to have a branch or branches intervening between the two. A procedure sanctioned by such authorities cannot be lightly set aside, but the following reasons may be urged in favour of ligature nearer the sac :— (a) It is now known that it is neither necessary nor desirable for cure of the aneurysm that a stream of blood should enter the artery below the ligature, and flow gently past the sac. (b) It is now known that the artery is not progressively more healthy above the aneurysm. It is as likely to be found healthy near to as far above the sac. (c) Even if the artery is not quite sound where the surgeon exposes it, he can now apply a ligature in such a way as not to in- volve any evil consequences from the arterial disease. (d) As a rule, the ligature at some distance above the aneurysm residts in the formation of two permanent blocks in the main artery, with a patent portion between, and the nutrition of the limb