831 teeat:siekt of COLLES’ fracture. noterl are: tearing off of the lower ulnar epiphysis, or, more often, fracture of the shaft 1 inch up; and obstruction of main arteries by pressure. Suppuration of simple cases is not to be feared, though the periosteum is widely separated (Fig. 269). Arrest of growtli is quite exceptional, and should be treated by resection of enough of the lower end of the ulna. Diagnosis. — Distinction between tlie fracture and separation of tlie epi))hysis rests upon (1) age—though Colies’ fracture may occur iir young jteople; (2) the situation of the cleft; (3) tlie acuteness of the angle forward; and (4) the character of the crepitus. Both the above accidents are distinguished from disloca- tion back of the wrist by the normal relation which the radial styloid process bears to the carpus and by the absence of any resemblance in form between the prominences on the front and back of the wrist to the concave smooth lower edge of the radius and the rounded conA’’exity of the carpus. Treatment of fracUsres of the lower end of the radius.—The deformity should be reduced by traction on the hand,- and espe- cially by direct pressure on the fragments : anaesthesia may be necessary. Permanent deformity markedly limits flexion move- ments. There may be no deformity; when deformity has been reduced it may not recur, or it may return as soon as the part is free. Only in the latter case is a splint absolutely necessary, and even here it can probably be aban- doned in .seven to . ten days. The best splint is Carr’s (Fig. 270). After reduction has been effected the limb is laid on the palmar splint covered with a layer of boric lint, and the pa- tient is made to grasp the oblique bar—when this is done any de- formity disappears; if necessary, the hngers are closed round it, and for twenty-four hours, or till spasm has sub- sided, fixed by bandage over wool ; the little dorsal splint is apj^lied, and the roller run up Fig. 270.—Can’s Splints for Colies’ Fracture.