625 TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. Introduction of foreign bodies (Moore’s operation).—Foreign bodies have been passed into the sac of an aneurysm to excite coagulation of the blood, and to assist in filling the sac with solid matter; iron wire, catgut, and horsehair have been employed. The best material to use is fine steel wire coiled small and rendered aseptic by prolonged immersion in liquor potassje. This can most conveniently be passed into the sac througli a Southey’s cannula. The success attending this operation has been exceed- ingly small, and the method is not regarded with favour. Cure and improvement have been reported fx'om it, but in the great majority of cases failure has attended its use; in one case extensive sloughing of the sac followed its employment. If us(;d at all, only a small quantity of wire should be inti’oduced at any one time. The introduction of coagulants is the least satisfactory of all the methods of treating aneurysm. In the first place it can only be carried out by means which involve more or less injury to the sac; if any clot is formed it may be carried away as an embolus and do harm, or the coagulating agent may itself escape into the artery. For these reasons it is most safely employed where the aneurysm can be completely controlled by compression of the artery above and below, and this is just the condition which renders the aneurysm suitable for treatment by compi’ession, ligature, or excision. As a curative agent, thei’efore, this method has a very limited value. In cases of internal aneurysm, for which other surgical measures are unavailing, it may be cautiously used with the object of pro- ducing a certain amount of clot in the sac, and thereby to strengthen it and prevent its enlargement; hi cases of aortic aneurysm, acupunc- ture and galvano-puncture have sometimes succeeded in accomplish- ing this amount of good. 5. Amputatiou.—Amputation is sometimes necessary for various reasons and to accomplish different purposes. Thus, in the first place, it is to be employed to remove a disease which threatens life, and which cannot be satisfactorily treated in any other way. Before the time of Hunter, amputation was often employed for popliteal or femoral aneurysm, being preferred to the risks attending the disease or any other then known treatment. Now, amputation is rarely necessary for this purpose ; it may be needed in cases of inflamed and sup- purating or sloughing aneurysms. It is required, in the second place, in certain accidents attending the treatment of aneurysm—gangrene and secondary haemorrhage. Thirdly, in very rare cases, amputation of the limb below an aneurysm may be employed to cure the aneurysm ; for example, amputation through the shoulder has been performed for aneurysm of the subclavian artery. The cure is effected partly by the spread- ing of clot in the artery from the stump to the aneurysm, and in great part by the lessened tension in the artery caused by the reduction in the stream of blood passing through it. The choice of treatment,—Having reviewed the various methods that may be employed, it remains now to consider the