7G4 INJURIES OF BONES. with sufficient firmness to allow of use being commenced. Fractures unite more quickly in children than in adults. PHOGRESS AFTER FRACTURE. Course of a simple fracture.—This should be uneventful. Shock is usually slight in limb fractures, but may even prove fatal in cases due to great violence, and in the old and feeble. Fain is not, as a rule, severe or lasting, but it may be both. Whenever severe it is probably due to a complication. .During the first fev/ days, starting pains—due to imperfect fixation—may be very troublesome, and together w'ith a constant ache, may disturb sleep greatly. Much discomfort may be experienced from necessary restraint of apparatus, and acute pain in the back is not uncommon for a day or two when the dorsal position must be maintained. Generally pain soon disappears after the satisfactoiy setting of a fracture. Tenderness subsides steadily, and is little marked after ten to fourteen days. Swelling may be rapid and great, or slight, and slowly increasing for twenty-four to forty-eight hours. The early swelling is due to htemorrhage, and is proportionate to the number of vessels tom, those of bone always bleeding persistently ; later, swelling is due also to inflammatory exudation from injured vessels, and to impaired lymphatic and venous return owing to rupture, compression, and thrombosis of these vessels. The swelling is diffuse, for the fluids spread along the areolar planes; it may be deep or superficial. In the latter case it pits, and all the colours of a bruise appear. Gradually absorption sets in, and the bones are felt, yet not clearly and sharp as at first, but more or less concealed by the callus-tumour, which steadily increases in size and definiteness. It is perceptible at the end of the first week, and fully developed and firm in the second to third week. When firm union has been effected, the finger traces the absoi’ption of the callus, and the gradual return of the bone towards its normal foi-m. Unreduced displacement of the fragments, and its effects upon the Hmb shortening, bending, etc.—are, however,^ permanent. _ Absorption of the extravasation is accompanied by certain general and urinary symptoms, viz. fever, very rarely an icteric tint, and the occurrence of bilirubin, fat, albumen, and casts in the mine. Fever. Among 168 cases of simple fracture at University College Hospital, 92 per cent, became febrile (Horsley), the tem- perature being sometimes only slightly raised, again reaching 101 or even higher within twenty to sixty hours, and falling to normal in three to fourteen days. The fever does not affect the general well-being, and, with marked exceptions, is higher the more exten- sive the bruising, and in those under than in tliose over foity. This pure “traumatic” fever is not peculiar to fractures, but occurs after severe contusions, and is probably due to absorption ot pyrogenous stuff from extravasated blood (fibrin feiment) or rn