XXXII. INJURIES OF THE JOINTS AND DISLOCATIONS. By a. MARMADUKE SHEILD, M.B. Cantab., F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to St. George's Hospital. Contusions of joints. Pathology.—The local conditions asso- ciated with contusions of a joint will vary with the nature of the injury, and the size of the articulation involved. Heavy blows and crushing violence, as from a spent shot or railway accident, may inflict much damage on a joint without rupturing the skin. Thus, the articular ends of the bones may be splintered, or blood extensively extravasated into the cancellous tissue. The joint may be distended with blood, and portions of cartilage, bone, ligamentous tissue, or synovial membrane torn or entirely detached. The main vessels of the limb may also be ruptured. In slight contusions all these severe lesions are absent, and the only changes found are slight peri- articular bruising, and, perhaps, some blood extravasatioii in the cancellous bone, with serous exudation into the joint causing heat and swelling. The term “ synovitis ” was formerly applied to these cases. It is doubtful if extensive inflammation, in the absence of organisms, exists, and the articular effusion may be looked upon as merely the result of irritation. Consequences.—In severe crushes of a joint implicating the main vessels, gangrene may ensue, or secondary sloughing of the dis- tended skin, the injury becoming compound. Then diffuse suppura- tion and various septic disorders are very prone to arise. Necrosis of the bone ends may follow, with separation of sequestra and acute abscess. The most severe constitutional pysmic^ symptoms may follow a moderate contusion of a joint, especially if the epiphysial region be bruised in a young person, even though the skin remains intact. The pathological explanation is not easy. It may be ration- ally supposed that the organisms (streptococci or staphylococci) so abundantly found in these cases gain access to the circulation from' some unsuspected source, and arriving at a part where the normal resistance and vitality of the tissues are lowered by the injury, are thus able to grow and multiply, forming a source of potent general systemic infection.