ANEURYSM. The diagnosis of carotid aneurysm often presents great difilcul- ties, and many mistakes have been made. Tumoitrs of the thyroid gland are distinguished by rising and falling with the trachea during deglutition, by their fixedness on the inner side, often by the implication of the isthmus, and by their mobility over the carotid artery. Lymphatic glandular tumours are globular, ovoid, or lobulated in outline, often multiple, and generally incompressible and freely movable away from the artery. When the arteiy passes through the middle of the tumour it may be somewhat compressible, and it is not movable over the vessel; in such a case the outline of the swelling, its history, the presence of other enlai’ged glands, and of some obvious cause for the swelling—one or all of these—clear up the diagnosis. A. cyst under the sterno-mastoid muscle may pulsate from its close proximity to the artery, and if the cyst is flaccid and folded round the artery, there may be slight expansile pulsation in it. The history of the case, the irreducibility of the tumour, the fact that compression of the carotid artery below the tumour does not affect its size or tension, distinguish it from aneurysm. In some cases when the sterno-mastoid muscle is relaxed, the cyst can be lifted away from the artery and then its pulsation is lost. Abscess over the artery is distinguished by the usual signs of in- flammation, by obvious fluctuation, and by the irreducibility of the swelling when the artery below is compressed ; the special features of the aneurysmal pulsation and bruit are also absent. When the artery has opened into an abscess cavity, the diagnosis is more difficulty the signs of inflammation and the absence of a clearly defined outline of the swelling, as well as of many of the other lead- ing signs of aneurysm, are the chief points to be noted. Varix of°the internal jugular vein is a soft compressible swelling,^ which shrinks during deep inspiration and becomes fuller when expiratory efforts are made; the pulsation in it is transmitted and is not truly expansile. Other solid tumours, fatty or sarcomatous, must be dis- tinguished by their outline, mode of growth, mobility upon the artery, fixity in some cases to other structures, and by their in- compressibility and the absence of the other signs of aneurysm. Treatment.—Whenever practicable, digital compression below the aneurysm should be tried, as it has been attended witli a good deal of success; if possible, the artery should be controlled by pressure against the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra without pressure upon the vagus nerve. Ligature of the artery, either below or above the aneurysm, is the other chief means of cure : the proximal ligature is to be preferred in all cases where there is room to apply the thread between the tumour and the sternum. This operation is attended with risk. Its chief danger is cerebral anannia followed by white softening, or by the passive con<^estion which may follow the ligature of an artery in any situa- tion. An abscess may develop in the amemic area. Immediately on tightening the ligature there may be syncope, dimness of sight.