SYNCOPE AND SHOOK. 156 suppurative process, the pressure in the bone becoming so great that fat is forced into the circulation. Where we have the condition of fat embolism of the lung, the chief trouble to which it leads is oedema. There is usually more or less sudden and violent dyspnoea, the eyes become prominent, the patient is cyanosed, he coughs, the sputum is frothy and mixed with streaks of blood, or there may be even distinct haemoptysis, and if the patient lives, this condition may be followed by pneu- monia. When the chief embolism is in the brain, the result is delirium, followed by coma; the pulse is small, rapid, and irregular, and the patient generally dies. {See Art. XXIX.) As to the treatment, one can only treat the symptoms. In Ihe case of the lungs, dry cupping relieves the patient very con- siderably; sinapisms to the chest, warmth and stimulants, are also of service. Traumatic delirium.—After operation we may have the con- dition known as traumatic delirium, or, where the patient has been a hard drinker, true delirium tremens may supervene. The symptoms in the two cases are very much the same, but trau- matic delirium is said to differ from delirium tremens in the absence of the trembling of the lips and hands, and in the absence of the history of drunkenness. The symptoms usually set in within twenty- four to forty-eight hours after the injury. The patient becomes excited and extremely loquacious ; he imagines that he sees animals and people in the room. He passes rapidly from one topic to another, but generally recurs to the business in which he is employed. He does not complain of any pain ; he is very restless, tries to get out of bed, takes off his dressings, and moves his limbs, even though broken. He has no jfever, his pulse is regular and normal. The patient may die as the result of this condition, but he usually, after two or three days, falls into a sound sleep and recovers. The great essential in the treatment is to make the patient sleep, more especially by the use of opium, and at the same time to see that he takes sufficient nutriment to keep up his strength.