326 8UEGI0AL DISEASES DUE TO PABASITES. X. DELHI BOIL. .ffltiology.—This disease is known also as Oriental sore (Aleppo boil, Biskra button, Gafsa button, Kandahar, Penjeh, or Natal sore). It is a local sore, probably the result of infection by organisms, the nature of which has not been discovered. Considerable doubt exists as to the specific nature of the disease, which is met with in tropical and sub-tropical regions under various names. In India it has been especially commonly seen in Delhi, though less frequently of late. It has also been common in other parts of India, Asia Minor, Arabia, Persia, Syria, northern Africa, the Mediterranean islands, etc. Its occurrence is somewhat influenced by season, being most frequently met with at the end of the wet season in India; in Biskra particularly in September, October, and November. Sex and age aflfect its occurrence little, and one attack gives no immunity from I’ecurrence. The boil develops on the uncovered parts of the body, especially the face, and successive inoculations may occur in the same subject. The period of incubation is very variable. Mode of infection.—It has been suggested that infection by water used for ablutionary purposes is a source of infection; also that winged insects may transport the virus. Symptoms. —Local itching, which may last some time, is followed by the development of a small red area, not unlike an inflamed mosquito bite, from which radiating vessels sometimes pass. The red spot becomes papular, gradually increasing in size, until it reaches the size of a pea or more, and desquamates. It is indolent, pricks on pressure, and is entirely limited to the skin and sub- cutaneous tissue. After some weeks, or even months, the dull red surface is seen to be dotted with deep yellowish-wliite spots, possibly inflamed hair follicles, and later serum exudes from the central part, gradually drying and accumulating in a scab. The scab increases in thickness to as much as a quarter of an inch, is greyish in colour, or, if hsemorrhage occurs, of a brownish hue. It is very adherent, and if left alone, may last for months. Beneath this scab ulceration begins, progressing the more rapidly with the less care given to the part. The ulcers are indolent, oval or irre- gular in outline, the margins sharp or bevelled in character, the floor uneven, covered with yellowish or sanious pus, and in parts, especially in the centre, covered with frambsesia-like prominent granulations sometimes dotted with minute blood extravasations. The ulcers may reach three-quarters of an inch in diameter; they may be single, grouped, or multiple on diflerent parts, to the number of forty or fifty. There is little surrounding inflammation and no lymphatic glandular enlargement. The duration of the process is very variable. After from two to six months the scabs may separate spontaneously, leaving an incom- plete thin red cicatrix, with rapidly-healing granulations in the centre