IMMUNITY. 23 Wcillus, at 42° 0., when all stages of attenuation may be obtained, virulence being ultimately lost; by exposure to light and air on an artificial medium; by drying, which gradually kills certain organisms, especially those which do not form spores ; by the growth of two organisms side by side—the Bacillus pyocyaneus apparently yields products which interfere with the virulence of the anthrax bacillus; and by the passage of bacteria through certain animals, in order to diminish their virulence. The third method of producing immunity consists in the intro- duction into the body to be rendered immune, of the products or the sp66ific~Udcterium against wlilch immunity is to be obtained ; in some cases the germ-free filtrate is used, ‘ -i.-—j the germ-free filtrate is used, in others the stenlised cultures containing the, dead bodies of the bacilli, which have been kllle3~by heat or some chemical reagent. This toxic material may be heated or mixed with chemical agents which have the power of weakening the activity of these bacterial poisons. Lastly, the method now most in vogue is that in which what is known as immunised serum or blood_ serum (obtained from animals rendered immune by one ordtFer of the methods above described) is used. Even secretions or certain excretions from immunised animals, such as milk or urine, are supposed to have this immunismg power. Whatever method be used, the following points are now almost proved: (1) that the immunising substances are in all probability of a proteid nature; (2) that sterilised cultures or filtrates deprived of tlieir specific poisonous properties may have a marked power. of producing immunity ; (3) an inoculated animal is for a short time after inoculation more susceptible to an attack of the specific disease, but as soon as this stage of su§caii@ility~h'as'b~een passed7~the~resi^ance IS increased ; (4) whenever specific bacteria are used, either in^the virulent or the attenuated form, the aim is to produce a mild attack of _tl^disea^, as a result of which the animal is immune; (6) the period required itor the acquisition of immunity is in this case much greater than when anti-toxic blood serum is used, in which last, a protective influence is recognised almost immediately or, at any rate; in the course of a few hours; (6) it is found, however, that the immunity so produced (the passive immunity of Ehrlich) is more transient than that obtained by inoculation with micro-organisms or their products; (7) the blood serum of naturally immune animals 1ms not yet been proved capable of producing immunity when injected uito susceptible animals. The manner in which this immunity is brought about is still a controversial point. Metchnikoff and his disciples maintain that immunity is due to the action of certain living amoeboid cells of the body, which, it is held, are capable of ingesting and digesting living micro-organisms which find their way into the blood or tissues. Ihe polynuclear leucocytes are the most important, but the whole of the connective tissue cells may assume the same function. The leucocytes of susceptible individuals appear to be repelled by the pathogenic bacteria which, left unattacked, multiply and form their