*,20 DISEASES OF THE SKIN. The nails occasionally suffer in both congenital and acquired Byphilis. (See page 398.) As the result of injury in children a curious disease is sometimes met with, known as onycliia inali^^na. In this one of the finger- nails becomes loosened from its bed, and there is such inflammatory thickening of the matrix and surrounding soft parts that the digit assumes a clubbed form. The duration is practically indefinite unless proper treatment be adopted. Ihis consists in the evulsion of the diseased nail, and thorough cleansing with a strong antiseptic solution, followed by the use of powdered iodoform, etc. The subjects of onychia maligna are frequently ill-nourished children, and atten tion to the general health and a good diet are advisable. Peri-onycliia (lingual whitlow).—As the result of inocul^ tion Avith septic organisms (the access of which may have been made easy by some contusion or crush of the end of the finger), the bed of the nail or its root is liable to suppurate, a most painful and troublesome affection being thus produced. It is most often seen on the fingers of nurses, surgeons, and the like, and often takes the form of a serpiginous ulceration, which creeps romid and may wholly detach the nail from its matrix ; this, however, is only effected after a long period of pain and disability, and the only speedy cure is to be obtained by removing the nail and applying antiseptic fomentations, etc. In a certain number of cases, however, the nail may be saved by persevering applications of carbolic solution, or oi nitrate df silver (5 grains to the ounce). The latter is very pamful for a time and blackens the nail, but certainly succeeds in checking the proo'ress of the ulceration better than any other remedy. Even should this be successful the nail is apt to be distorted, and if removed a new one will probably grow. It should not be forgotten that primary s\qphilitic chancres of the fingers occur as pen- and sub- ungual sores, which may be very painful, like the preceding dis^e; the indolent axillary gland enlargement is, however, an mvariable sequel if the sore be a chancre. + i ^ Medicinal eruptions.—A few words must be devoted to this o-roup, especially those eruptions which may follow the administra- tion of Lgs often used in tutgeiy. By far the most universa form is an erythema or papulo-erythematous rash on tiunk a limbs, which may, for instance, be produced by copaiba, cubebs, chloral, and a host of other drugs. The coiKiiba rash is a very striking one, having a deep pink or red colour, confluent in patches, especially at certain sites, which L rarely eiempt from the spots, namely round ankles. The extensor surfaces are involved more, a tl ■ the flexor ones. It appears rather suddenly, may develop u a suhjecrwho has been Sing copaiba for weeks or previous troulde, and is attended with e mitient’s urine will be found to become thick if floated on mtii aiid, but there is no marked line just above the acid s^h ^ wou d rev«.l the presence of albumen. If the nitric acid he shaken up