305 hydrophobia. hhnself .vilclly about and often damaging his surroundings. At the ^ « timp he retains in some measure his reason, may often be same and often gives those surrounding him advice rfec/Cre^again^ his“ possible violence. Sexual excite- pit nrianism and seminal emissions are sometimes extremely f and may give rise to difficulty in micturition, which is otherwise often frequent. The urine may contain soLtimes blood. The temperature may rise considerably, but nftener little elevated, or sometimes normal. With the progress of the disease the streng^ of the patient rapidly decreases and emaciation may commence. The pulse becomes Quml/irregular, and small in volume, and respiration quick and shallow, a deep inspiration often inducing a convulsive attack. Tenacious mucus accumulates in the mouth and fauces, articulation is thick and low, convulsive attacks increase m frequency, and death from asphyxia may occur during one of them. cases the progress is slower, the eyes sink, the brow sweats, the lips become blue, and the patient dies of slow asphyxia; or occasional^ an almost complete remission of convulsive attacks may precede death from exhaustion, the mind in either case remammg clear to In some cases a more or less complete paraplegic condition has been noted before death. In rare instances the disease mamly assumes a paralytic form, and then strongly resembles that known as Landry’s, or acute ascending paralysis, commencing m the lower limbs, gradually spreading to the trunk, upper limbs, and face, these phenomena being unattended by any of the classical symptoms of hydrophobia. ,.,117 Diagnosis.—The early symptoms may be simulated by hysteria. Close observation of the patient’s symptoms, which are often exagge- rated or ridiculous, together with careful attention to the history and inquiries as to the condition of the source of the bite, will suffice to clear up any doubts. It should be borne in mind in these cases that many persons bitten by dogs not rabid often complain of subjective sensations in the wounds some time after the original injury. Tetanus occasionally follows the bite of a dog, and many cases have occurred in which this has been mistaken for hydrophobia. Attention to the following points will obviate any chance of con- fusion ;—The length of the incubation period is usually very much shorter in tetanus ; the mental state differs, the terrible anxiety being absent; the spasms are tonic rather than convulsive in character; the facial aspect (risus sardonicus) differs; and lastly, the marked rise of temperature seen in tetanus does not occur in hydrophobia (page 192). In the pure paralytic form the diagnosis from acute ascending paralysis can only be made by close attention to the history, and possibly confirmed later by inoculation experi- ments on animals. Prognosis.—Prior to the introduction of Pasteur’s treatment the disease has been considered a fatal one. Evidence seems clear, however.