290 AN^.STHETIGS. borne without pain. Wafers coiitaim’nfr o-.. i +i , be of cocaine are useful (Carter and Prostf ' I^r both eyes should be cocainised, even though one ey^Ll^irto^be operated upon. For squint operations it fs usually necessU Ster the prelmiinary instillation, to inject a minim or two of a 5 Jev Snt solution beneath the conjunctiva in the neighbourhood of the muscle requii mg division The eye should be kept closed after instillation to prevent corneal desiccation. mbuiiarion, In^-a-nasal,pharyngeal, andlaryngealmryerw.—Cocaine is eouallv valuable in most minor operations within thelos^e, throat, and laW It IS not to be relied upon when the parts are inflamed • it is n^t a Si the^rr^'^^V^f ® post-nasal adenoid growths ; and f many surgeons prefer a general anaesthetic. Analgesia may be produced (1) by directly applying a solution of «ie drug by a camel-hair brush or with pieces of absorbent cotton- wool twisted round the end of a probe, or (2) by means of a spray, the atomised solution being projected into the nose or throat ^ In the former method, which is usually adopted for intra-nasal opera- tions, cauterising turbinated bones, removing “spurs,” etc., a 10 per cent, solution is commonly employed, though it may be necessary to use a 20 per cent, solution, or even to add a few crystals of the salt to the wet wool or brush. In the latter method, which is especially serviceabk for operations within the pharynx and larynx, a 3 per cent, or 5 per cent, solution will suflice for children; whilst for adults a 10 per cent, solution should be used (Hovell). For ex- amining a sensitive naso-pharynx with the finger, a 2 per cent, to a 5 per cent, solution sprayed through the nose, so as to fall on the posterior surface of the soft palate, answers well; or the naso- pharynx and soft palate may be painted by a brush bent at ri^ht angles. Tonsils may be removed either after they have been painted 01 sprayed by the solution. When the part to be operated upon is congested, some difficulty may be experienced in obtaining anaesthesia and stronger solutions than usual may be required. Urinary and bladder surgery.—In certain operations and mani- pulations within the urethra and bladder, cocaine is sometimes em- ployed ; but as it is difficult or impossible to inject a solution beyond the membranous portion of the urethra without employing a catheter a general anaesthetic should be used if absolute freedom from paffi is desired. For catheterisation and similar procedures, from half to two drachms of a 5 per cent, solution should be injected into the urethra. A similar solution is employed for injecting into the bladdei Avhen it is desired to render the mucous membrane of that organ insensitive. Dental surgery.—Cocaine is of great value in scaling, separating, examining, or treating sensitive pulps, etc., solutions of from 5 per