SACCULATED ANEURYSM. 595 2. Sacculated Aneurysm. The sac.—A sacculated aneurysm is formed by a dilatation of a part of tbo circumference of an artery. Where a relatively large portion of the wall of an artery is weakened by disease, and bulge Ldcr the pressure of the blood, the sac may at first consist of all three coats^of the vessel. In this case, the mouth of the aneurysm will be large, and the sac of small size; in the sac patches of atheroma and calcareous plates may be found, proving without doubt thf presence of the inner coat of the artery. In its essential features such an aneurysm resembles a fusiform aneurysm ; it is rare, and found only on the larger arteries. If the aneurysm enlarges, the inner coat does not keep pace with it, the middle coat is stretched and atrophied, and the sac then consists of the outer coat of the artery, strengthened on its outside by new fibrous tissue. It would be more correct, how- ever, to say that Avhen in such an aneurysm the inner coats are so diseased that they give way, the aneurysm at once enlarges. The import- ance of the inner coats of an artery in strengthening the vessel and enabling it to resist the pressure of the blood has been too little re- K"s. 154 and cognised. j. 155 show how large a share Fig. 170. — Large Sacculated Aueurysm of the Popliteal Artery. (Middlesex Hosiatal Museum.) they form of the wall of even the largest arteries. In the great majority of cases of sacculated aneurysm, the sac from the first consists of a protrusion of the outer and part of the middle coat only, the inner coat and the inner part of the middle coat having been destroyed by atheroma. The muscular tissue is thinned out, undergoes fatty degeneration, and quickly disappears. The outer coat grows and is thickened by a new formation of fibrous tissue, produced by chronic inflammation of the sheath of the artery excited by the pressure of the aneurysm. The simplest proof of this growth of the sac of an aneurysm is afforded by the facts that it is usually thicker than the healthy arterial wall, and that it is often so very much larger than the mouth of the sac which corresponds to the portion of the artery from Avhich it took origin (Fig. 170). When blood-clot adheres to the interior of the sac, it quickly becomes organised into fibrous tissue, and strengthens the sac on its inner surface. The sac of such an aneiuysm can be