INJURIES OF RONES. 864 Fractures of the upper end of the tibia, of the tibia alone, and of the fibula above its lower third, are generally due to direct force. Indirect violence, especially falls upon the feet, gives rise to the common oblique fracture—“ en bee de flute ”—of the tibia downwards, forwards, and inwards at its weakest spot, the junction of middle and lower thirds. The fibula generally yields immediately after the tibia, either at the same level or at the neck (Fig. 314). To falls upon the feet are due also spiral fractures, starting on the inferior articular surface, and winding up the shaft (Figs. I.; 207 and 210). The sharp point of the upper fragment of the tibia close beneath the skin, as it usually is, is often driven through the skin by an attempt to stand, or by dropping of the foot in improper lifting. Signs.—All the signs of fracture are present or easily elicited in fractures of both bones as a rule; frac- ture of the tibia, owing to its subcu- taneous sur- face, generally causes no diffi- culty. But fracture of the shaft of the fibula may be vei’y obscure; localised ten- derness and pain, con- stantly re- ferred to a spot, not struck, when the le<^ bones are pressed together at a distance froin it, are very suspicious. Separation of the head of the fibula is easily recognise^. When only one bone is broken the other acts as a splint to it andltamVi^ slight os absent. , >soth cause shortening, with angular deformity lock; but usually the surfaces are oblique, and the lo«ei Fig. 316.—A Tibia wlucli has been broken at the usual Situation, and the Line of Fracture running from before downwards and back- wards. The lower frag- ment has been dis- placed forwards, so as to produce .m angle, salient backwards, with the upper frag- ment. This is very unusual. (Charing Cross Museum, No. 410.) Fig. 317.—The lower End of a right Tibia re- paired after Fracture from without down- wards and inwards, and Impaction of the Shaft into the lower Fragment. The lower fragment has rotated so tliat its articular surface has been car- ried inwards. Firm union has occurred and the medullary canal has been_ almost restored. (University College Museum, No. 315.) Fig. 318. — An outside Cline's Splint, with webbing bands and buckles coiled round it.