674 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF LYMPHATIC'S. Tlie surface is suiooth and elastic and painless, and they contract no adhesions. On section, they exhibit a hyperplasia of lymphoid tissue, in which the trabecular structure disappears, and is replaced by lymphoid cells, which are identical with the white corpuscles of the blood ; but their proportion varies considerably with the rate of growth of the tumour. Under treatment by arsenic, iron, phos- phorus, and especially sea air, the enlarged glands will often sub.side or remain quiescent; but the enlargement may continue and the glands fuse together, and cause danger, and even death, by pressure upon important structures. There is little tendency to degenerative changes. When single, removal at an early stage may be attempted. There is no tendency to recurrence. (2) Liympliadenoma.—Lymphadenoma is a more extensive development of a like condition, and may or may not be ac- companied by leukaemia. It is a disease of early life, and more common in males than females. Beginning usually in the neck, a whole chain of glands becomes involved, and later the adenoid tissue throughout the body becomes implicated (Fig. 189). The spleen is most frequently affected, but the liver, kidneys, intestines, and ]uany other tissues, including the medulla of bones, may share the condition. When cut across, the glands present a uniform grey or yellowish colour. Microscopically, the trabecular structure is found to have largely disappeared, and to be replaced by lymphoid cells. In some .specimens the reticular and fibrous parts of the glands preponderate, to the exclusion of the lymphoid tissue, and thus give a greater firmness and consistence to the tumour. In the viscera the lymph corpuscles are seen in enormous numbers in the sheaths of lymphoid tissue, which naturally enclose the vessels, and their encroachment leads to an atrophy of the natural structures. Death, when leukaemia is not present, occurs either as a result of pressure upon important structures or from diarrhoea or dropsy. M'hen leukaemia accompanies this affection of the glands, the enlargement of the spleen is very marked, and the blood shows, on examination, a considerable increase in the proportion of white corpuscles, and a diminution in the number of red. Anaemia and exhaustion set in early, and epistaxis or subcutaneous haemon’hages are frequent, and death occurs early from debility. In the matter of treatment, operation is of little or no avail, and reliance must be placed upon iron, arsenic, iodide of potassium, and change of air. (3) L.ympliosarcoma.—Sarcoma, usually of the round-celled variety, occurs rarely in single glands, or in a group of neighbouring glands, as a primaxy affection, and quickly invades the surrounding tissue (page 466). Clinically, it is to be distinguished from the simpler forms only by its moi’e rapid growth, and by its tendency to invade the neighbouidng parts and to pi’Otrude through the skin, aixd by the absence of leukaemia. Very eaidy removal inay some- times be warranted, but the progi'ess is generally I’apid and t le prosj)ect of cure is hopeless.