DISLOCATIONS. 1028 f . / / 11 * X • » ’ J >1 . 1 • I i\ 1 ii If! ji! 3 4 /? 4 i-SM ]*r ‘P. 1?', .'1' >41/ |\ ('flj ntSflCMl bJu;'. aaSr malleolus projecting nearly to the sole, and the inner being buried (Fig. 428). The position of the head of the astragalus maybe looked upon as the key to the direction of these displacements. The more the foot is thrown directly backwards, the greater the elongatioji of , the heel, and the more advanced the prominence of the astragalus dorsally. The tuberosity of the scaphoid will always be altered in position with regard to the head of the astragalus. The forward subastragaloid dislocation is excessively rare, and the scope and aim of this article prevents further discussion of it. The malleoli are not so often fractured in this dislocation; but it may be com- pound, and when produced by ma- chinery accidents is associated with much laceration and contusion of the soft parts. Treatment (Fig. 429).—Flexion of the leg and counter-extension from the thigh should be, as usual, effected. In those dislocations which have a back- ward direction, the operator may press the tibia backwards, and draw the front of the foot upwards and forwards, in- verting or everting at the same time, according to the displacement; or the front of the foot may be powerfully drawn upon by a bandage, and the hand of the operator left free to manipulate and press upon the displaced calcaneum. Should great difficulty be experienced, the tendo Achdlis and posterior tibial tendons will need division, after which reduction will generally be effected. In compound subastragaloid disloca- tions it is advisable to remove the astragalus if it should be fractured, or if the soft parts are much injured, or there be difficulty in reduction. In the irreducible simple dislocations it has been generally advised that things should be left alone. The risk of sloughing of the skm over the prominent head of the astragalus seems very great, and the practice of modern surgery would tend towards excision of the astragalus or amputation, rather than leaving a panfful distorted foot which may entail serious permanent lameness. The subastr^ aaloid amputation by a racket-shaped incision would be applicable to old irreducible subastragaloid dislocations, with distortion ot ^^'^DMocation at the medio-tarsal joint.—In the dislocation we are now considering, the astragalus and os calcis maintain their relation to each other, and to the ankle joint, the movements of Fig. 42S.—Subastragaloid Disloca- of the Foot inwards.