785 INJUBJES OF VESSELS IN FRACTURES. is possible; gradually the circulation improves, and the general swelling subsides; then, perhaps, a circumscribed fluctuating swelling is discovered in the region of the fracture, and in this thrill, expansile pulsation, and systolic bruit may become evident., This is an arterial hcematoma. Between these two examples there are cases in which the most experienced will be in doubt as to whether circulation in a limb can be restored. The diffuse extravasation above described sometimes develops slowly, or rapidly after some days, owing, probably, to shifting of a clot or of a plug^ng or compressing fragment. Again, there may be no excessive primary swelling, but after some weeks, generally on the removal of the splints, a swelling is found at the seat of fracture, wlrich may have all the signs of an aneurysm ; but it may have none, the skin over it may be thin and red and fluctua- tion distinct; more than once a knife has been put into such a swelling in the belief that it was an abscess. In these cases of circumscribed arterial hsematoma of late formation we can only surmise as to why there was little early extravasation or why the extravasation became so perfectly circumscribed : thus, a late wound or the shifting of a clot is possible at a time when the tissues are matted about the fracture and clot fills their interstices, when the limb is constantly at rest, uniformly supported, perhaps suspended, and arterial supply is at a minimum. If the fracture be compound, but the wound small and the track to the wounded vessel long and oblique, there may be little external licemorrhage; or it may be free at first, and cease under simple treatment, or none, as the wound fills with clot; the wound may heal, or more or less severe bleeding may recur at intervals; and, in either case, one or other of the above conditions develops from diffuse or localised hfemorrhage into the tissues. On the other hand, if the fracture be freely compound, the blood escapes externally instead of into the tissues. Where arteries become closed as a result of laceration or rupture of the inner coats or of compression, and little bleeding occurs, the pulse will he missed below ; collateral circulation may be estab- lished, just as after ligature at the point; but gangrene may occur after hgature, and is obviously more probable with laceration of surrounding tissues and compression by extravasation of collateral vessels. {See also page 536.) The dangers of sepsis in these cases are many and obvious; secondary hcjemorrhage from sloughing of the artery is specially likely in cases of undiscovered and unrelieved compression. Wounds of large veins have caused huge hsematomata, threatening or inducing gangrene; in one case (Erichsen) compression of the subclavian by a fragment of the clavicle caused gangrene. 1''rea.tment.—In a freely compound fracture with a bleeding vessel—artery or vein—at the bottom of the wound, no one would hesitate to tie both ends above and below the opening. The treat- ment should be exactly the same when, in a compound fracture, the