8 SUBGIGAL BAGTWBIOLOOY. from certain organic acids, and from the glycerine group, whilst others seem to have the power of wresting the food materials only directly from proteid substances. In all cases the hydrogen and oxygen are separated partly from the breaking-down food molecules, partly from water and partly from the air. Certain organisms seem to have the power of taking up their nitrogen from the atmosphere, though this power is apparently somewhat restricted in its distri- butimi. It may be stated generally, that the more parasitic the organism the less capable is it of taking up food from carbohydrates or sugars. lUUtilfc* 'll.* It may be well at this stage to point out that certam bacteria grow best when they are able to obtain a free supply of oxygen from the air, without which they are unable to carry on their full pepton- isin", enzyme-forming, or colour-forming function. &uch organisms are °clescribed as aerobic; when cultivated on gelatine they always wrow most vigorously near the surface; the peptonised area, when pie- sent, is usually funnel-shaped (see Fig. 1), and the formation of pigment <^oes on principally near the surface or in that part of the medium m which the oxygen has become mechanically entangled. Some bacteria, which are known as obligate aerobes, can grow only in the presence of oxyo-en ; others again, which are spoken of as facultative aerobes, may become so modified that they can wrest their oxygen from the nutrient medium in which they are growing. It should be noticed that wherever this occurs, unless the growth of the orpmsm is exceedingly feeble, the breaking-down of food material and the pro- duction of secondary products are much more marked than when the organisms have free access to oxygen. Other organisms, as for example the tetanus bacillus can and produce their special products only when air is rigidly excluded (Fi<^ ^3) : even when such organisms do grow feebly in the presence of air, it is found that they do not give rise to the special producte by which their presence is characterised in the non-aerobic growths. y are termed anaerobic. Such organisms appear to be veloping their special functions only when they draw the elements of thei? food from complex nitrogenous food or carbohydiates, of which there is always a far greater disintegration, accompanied by the production of greater quantities of specific and_ aromatic sub- stances than in the case of those organisms which obtain their oxygen from tiie air. The tetanus bacillus and the bacillus of malignant oedema are perhaps the two most typical anaerobic organisms wit which the surgeon has to deal. Most of the organisms of interest to the surgeon bxg pai asitic, liviii^ on or in the higher animal body. A few, such as those producing leprosy and relapsing fever, have never yet cultivated mitside the host,^so that they must be spoken of as strictly obligate n^asLT tL conditions of growth of the tubercle bacillus out^de the animal body are also so restricted that it practically comes un the same heading, although it is possible that under certain co - toioSTt might grow outeUla the bod,. Facdiat,^ para.Uec a.-c