387 THE PRIMARY LESION, be noted that both primary chancres and mucous patches have been occasionally observed on the cervix uteri. ., „ The primary lesion.-We will now consider the primary lesions in the male. For obvious reasons the site of the chancre is usually on the genitals, and here inoculation is especially favoured by the delicate nature of the cutaneous surface. The space between the Hans penis and the prepuce is very apt to harbour the virus, a fact forming one out of many reasons for the practice of circiim- cision fljt 68;rly 3-qG* „ , • j_i ^ *+ From 60 to 70 per cent, of chancres in the male are situated on the inner aspect of the prepuce, the retro-preputial fold or on the Hans penis. Often, owing to congenital phimosis, or to swelling of the prepuce, due to the irritation of the discharge, etc., it is impossib e for the patient to expose the sore; but the induration to be felt throiiHi the foreskin leaves little doubt in such cases as to the nature of the concealed chancre. The meatus is by no means an uncommon site for primary sores, which nearly always occur in the form of a ring round the urinary opening. Their cicatrisation is then apt to leave a stricture, but this sequela is not constant._ Second in fre- quency come chancres of the skin of the penis on its outer aspect, whilst they are occasionally seen on the pubes, the inner side of the thigh, the scrotum, etc. True urethral chancres—i.e. those occurring within the meatus—are excessively rare. It is a mistake to suppose that the syphilitic virus always obtains access at the moment of contagion through a crack or abrasion of the skin ; a perfectly unbroken surface of delicate epithelium will allow of its inoculation, and this holds true in the case of chancres of the conjunctiva as well as of the penis, etc. Where the skin is harder and thicker—as, for instance, on the fingers, cheeks, etc.—it is perhaps necessary for infection with syphilis that some breach of surface should exist. Thus, many cases have occurred through tattooing, from bites by the human subject, and through the practice of kissing when a crack exists on the lips. Signs of infecting chancres.—After exposure to syphilitic contagion, there may sometimes be noticed an abrasion which heals, subsequently indurating and developing into a true chancre; in other cases one or more soft chancres may be present and follow the same course, but in a large proportion of cases the patient’s attention is first called to the chancre at the end of three or four weeks, m '.d on his then presenting himself to the surgeon all the characteristic features of a primary infecting sore may be present (Fig. 78). The chancre is well defined, raised, slightly ulcerated, and secreting a little thin discharge, rounded or oval in outline, and usually painless. When grasped between finger and thumb, a hardness, varying in degree up to that of firm cartilage, is detected ; but the amount of in- duration will depend somewhat on the site of the lesion. It is most marked in chancres of the inner aspect of the prepuce, especially at the retro-preputial furrow; on the glans penis it may be but slight and of such little depth as to suggest parchment. It must N 2