200 TETANUS AND TETANY. to the more hopeful methods whicli we owe to the labours of Tizzoni and Cattani, and of Roux and Vaillard. Tizzoni and Cattani first ascertained that susceptible animals could be protected against tetanus and rendered immune by the injection of minimal doses of cultures attenuated by filtering, by heat, or by the addition of mineral acids. They have since discovered that this immunity cannot be obtained when the spleen has been previously removed. Next they found that the blood or blood-serum of an immunised animal— usually a dog or rabbit—rendered a filtered tetanus culture inert when mixed with it for twenty hours. The next step was to inject the serum into animals before inoculating them with tetanus. They were found to have been rendered immune. Then it was dis- covered that the serum also antagonised the tetanic poison when it Avas injected after inoculation, and even when tetanus had begun. The antitoxin was found to reside in the albuminous constituents of the serum. These can be precipitated by alcohol and dried in vacuo. In this form the tetanus antitoxin can be preserved like any other drug. At present it can only be obtained from Italy, or from M. Roux, of the Institute Pasteur, and from some chemists. These brilliant investigations were soon applied to man, and with promising results. The cases which have now been reported are too numerous to mention separately. About eleven subcutaneous injections—each consisting of fifteen grains of the dried serum dissolved in one hundred and fifty grains of distilled water—are usually required. Clarke, of Leicester, who seems to have been the first to treat a case successfully in England, gave a hundred grains during the first twenty-four hours. In cases by Gattai, Morgagni, and Einotti, the treatment lasted a fortnight. Tizzoni and Cattani have also vaccinated horses against tetanus, and Lesi has used the serum of one of them to cure a man of acute tetanus. Ranthack, however, has pointed out that in the earlier cases treated with antitoxin, twelve out of thirty were fatal. Also that those which recovered were not of the worst kind. Also Escherich reports that out of four cases of trismus neonatorum treated with tetanus antitoxin, three died. Of late, however, the cure of acute cases has been reported, and it seems safe to say that no remedy which has yet been used has given such promise of ultimate success. Tetany.—Tetany is a rare disease, which has sometimes been mistaken for tetanus. Very little is known as to its pathology. It is evidently an afiection of the nexwous system characterised by tonic spasm of the muscles, and has nothing to do with infection of any kind. The spasms are tonic in character, but liable to exacerba- tions. In severe cases the muscles may become as hard and rigid as in tetanus. Similar groups are also affected. The muscles of the face, larynx, eyes, and jaws, the sterno-inastoids, the pectorals, abdominal muscles, and muscles of the back, may all be rigidly contracted, and cause symptoms closely simulating tetanus. The muscular spasms may be accompanied by much pain, so that the patient cries out. The spasms may be produced or increased by