SOFT CHANCRES. 39] f +>iA non venereal affections wliich are sometimes seen on the penis, Epithelioma of the penis has often been mis- taken for a syphilitic chancre. Cases of gummatous ulceration of TheZSLl surface are frequent enough to deserve note, and probably dosely allied to these are the cases of so-called relapsing induration In tins curious affection what happens is this : A man who has had secondary syphilis years before presents a slightly-raised induration rn tSe penis, at or close to the site of his former chancre. If he has been lately exposed to venereal risk, nothing is more the sui-eon to conclude it is a case of second infection. But there is ^bubo, and no secondaries follow. Further the induration may occur in those who have not been exposed to the slightest usk of fresh attack of syphilis. That the lesion is of the nature of gumma- tous deposit is made almost certain by its disappearance under iodide of potassium. Although rare, the “ relapsing f^se indurated cbanCT® whkh was first described by Hutchinson and Fournier is well worth bearing in mind, as it may lead to curious perplexity in practice. The absence of gland enlargement, and the occurrence of the indura- tion at the site of the old chancre, are the two features which help most in the diagnosis. i i j The treatment of chancres and the buboes which attend them. Now and then it is worth while to attempt by excision, or by thorough cauterisation of a chancre, to prevent syphilitic infection. It must, however, be admitted that very few cases indeed are suitable ones for this method of treatment. If the sore be seen within a few days of known contagion, if it be situated on a part which can be easily removed—e.y. the end of the foreskin—and ii there be as yet no gland enlargement, excision may be tried. It is, however, quite useless when there is already a bubo, or if more than a few days elapsed from the date of contagion. Cauterisation with pure carbolic acid is to be recommended for most soft chancres, or doubtful ones, and when the sore is of unhealthy aspect and tending to spread, the surface should be cleansed, and either carbolic acid or some stronger caustic—such as nitric acid, or the acid nitrate of mercuiy applied. The pain may be diminished somewhat by previously applying a strong solution of cocaine. Cleanliness should be enjoined in all cases of venereal ulcers. The sore should be bathed several times daily, and an antiseptic powder applied in the intervals. One of the best is a mixture of iodoform (one part) with boracic acid (three parts), finely powdered, and thoroughly mixed. Sometimes, even in this weak preparation, iodoform causes erythema and irritation, or its smell may be strongly objected to. Then calomel and zinc oxide powder is useful, or the sore may be kept moist Avith a strip of linen soaked in lotio nigra (calomel and lime water). As a rule, oint- ments do not suit chancx’es, which show little tendency to heal under their use. Many syphilitic chancres are of the papular form, or occur as indurated plaques without any breach of surface, and then hardly