341 THU TUBEBOULOUS PROCESS. Tt is very apt to be ill defined in its limits. Septic infla-miuation of a mode^rdVe on the contrary usually prec.se u. rts hm.ts. The damaged area is surrounded by a barrier, which tends to isolate it. Such a banner is uncommon in tuberculous disease. The afifected district fades off gradually into the healthy tissue, and it is not easy to say where one be^'ins and the other ends. °In tuberculosis the inflammatory process is attended by a considerable exudation of a low type and by the formation of tissue of a flimsy and unstable character. For example, in tuber- culous disease of such a joint as the knee, the tissues of the articulation are found to be in- filtrated with a frail gelatinous tissue. To this condition the name of “pulpy or gelatinous decreneration ” was at one time giyen. In such a vio-orous inflammation as may follow injury of a°joint, this substance would be represented by a healthy granulation tissue, by means of which the damage in the articulation would be isolated and the lesion repaired. In the tuber- culous trouble the products of the inflammatory process are neither sound enough to form sub- stantial connective tissue, nor simple enough to be absorbed, nor evil enough to break down into pus, and the compromise is the feeble, unstable, ill-formed, uncertain substance which is so marked a feature in the diseased joint. One event in the tuberculous process is almost characteristic, and that is the appearance of caseation. Caseation is the outcome of a process of degeneration j the caseous material is wholly dead and is incapable of undergoing any but a chemical or physical change. It is absurd to speak of a caseous “deposit”; caseous matter is not deposited. It is the result of a decay of the materials concerned in the tuberculous pro- cess. It is equally absurd to speak of a caseous mass as suppurating or breaking down into pus. The cheesy nodule cannot form pus. It is only to be compared to a foreign body, to a slough, or to a sequestrum. It is incapable of active change. If suppuration take place, it is in the still living tissues which surround the caseous substance. Fig. 62.—Tuberculous The common sequence of events in tubercu- from* Xubtr^^^^ losis is to be well seen in tuberculosis of lym- Iour Ulcer of Hand, phatic glands. The part is invaded by the ouiose.’’^* Tome ut)