771 FLA8TEB OF PARIS SPLINTS. sewing with stout twine; an endeavour may be made to strengthen the splint opposite concavities by sewing suitably-shaped pieces into gaps which have been cut; and lastly, the edge all round is shaved quite thin from the outer surface to prevent the fixing bandage from driving the edge into the skin. Numerous holes are punched through the splint, and it may be lined. Leather- splints are cut like poroplastic, except that, by patient stretching, there is somewhat more chance of escaping without a ga}> opposite a concavity. When cut out, the edges are trimmed, and softening is effected by twenty-four hours’ soaking in cold water; or, if time is lacking, in water to wliich vinegar has been added, but this tends to render the leather hard. The splint, freed from superfluous water, is applied directly to the part and fitted accurately, a few stitches being inserted where pieces have been cut out. Over hollows, where a bandage cannot press, pads of cotton wool must be placed, and then a firm and careful bandage is applied. The part must be fixed for some hours, until the splint is dry; then the intervals are properly sewn up and, if necessary, bits inserted in gaps. The spHnt should be Lined with chamois. Webbing bands and buckles can easily be attached to the above splints. There is so much manipulation in fitting them, that they are not often used early in the treatment of fractures. Turning round a concavity is the difficulty with all three materials, of which leather is the most comfortable and best, unless quick hardening is essential —then poroplastic or plaster of Paris is needed. Immovable splints are made of materials which harden ; they do not become loose, except by shrinking of the part within them; they are more troublesome to put on and to take off than are the movable splints; when accurately applied they prevent movement very completely. The latter point was regarded as a chief merit, but there is reason to think that it is often a disadvantage. Many materials are used, but we shall describe the application of three only-—plaster-of Paris, silicate of soda, and starch. Plaster of Paris splints.—Plaster of Paris can be used in two different ways. (1) With roller bandages. These are prepared as follows :--A quantity of quite dry plaster of Paris is placed on a tray; a roller of crinoline or still more open muslin is thrown across the tray, drawn by one end through the plaster, which is well rubbed into Its meshes and rolled up again as loosely as possible. In addition to the bandages there will be required a basin of cold water deeper than a bandage is wide; strips of tin 18 in. by | in. punched through at every to d in., the holes being left rough; a pair of strong shears to cut tlie tin ; some rollers of boracic Hnt of suitable width. The tins are used to strengthen the splint without adding much to its weight • they are cut of smtable lengths, and bent to fit the positions which they are destined to occupy; the rough edges of the holes are turned outwards, and fix the tin by catching in the bandage; the corners are rounded off and the ends slightly turned up from the limb. The prepared limb, held carefully in position, is enveloped in boracic lint.