^ j I V'J ' I 'i'VvO'-0 ‘24 8UBG1GAL ^AGTEltlOLOGy. poison in situ. In the case of aii innniine animal, the leucocytes, instead of being repulsed by the bacteria, attack them, envelope them in their protoplasm and digest them, thus preventing them from carrying on their work, surrounding them and bringing about their localisation. It is supposed that the process of immunisation con- sists in a kind of acclimatisation of the polynuclear leucocytes and other phagocytic cells to the presence and action of special micro-organisms. Those who do not believe in 2}hagocytosis, or who hold that it is only partially responsible for the process, maintain that bacteria are killed or weakened by ^e bloodjerum, and that onI^~^ter~sircli weakening is it possible for them to be taken up by leucocytes; it may be readily understood that where the phagocytic cells have undergone degeneration, as in tuberculous nodules and in abscesses, many of them may succumb in the effort to cope with active bacteria. That these cells can destroy living bacteria, now admits of very Kttle doubt, but that micro-organisms are weakened by the fluid constituents of the blood may also be accepted as almost proved, though this only takes us a step farther back, as the quality of the blood plasma must, in great measure, depend upon the con- ditions obtaining in the cells which it contains and the tissues through which it passes, and any immunising products which these fluids contain must be derived from the cells, so that ultimately Ave must look to the cells for tbo production of the immunising fSHoiT'wTiethFr’T^ phagocytic or the" humoral theory be accepted. Chemotaxis is almost a necessary factor in the theory of phagocytosis, as only when the proteids of degenerated cells attract leucocytes more than the toxic proteids repel them, is it possible to bring the cells into contact with the bacteria, without which there can be no phagocytosis. The exhaustion theoT^y, promulgated by Pasteur, was based on the supposition that "specific bacteria, when introduced into the body, are capable of using up ceitain materials Avhich are necessary for their nutrition, so that these bacteria gradually die out; and even when introduced afresh, cannot exist, as there is nothing left for them on which to feed. Then came what was kiiowm as the retention theory, in which it was assumed that bacterial products mimical tolKe existence of the bacteria which form them, gradually accumulate in the blood, there remaining for an indetinite penoc^ so that any new intruders of the same species are at once killed, ilus theory, however, is not now seriously held in its origmal form, ilie third theory is that the serous fluids of the blood and lymph have the power of neutralising or antagonising the siiecilic poison ot certain micro-organisms. This undoubtedly holds true in a certain decree, in the acquired immunity against diphtheria obtained by in- iecdng anti-toxic scrum. A fourth theory, now somewhat generally received, is that these serqim fluids Jiay;.Q_the. a bactericidal action on llTe nnW-orgaiiisius themselves, quite apart from their power of acting upon the toxines produced by tl.e micro- oi-anisms, tliough tliese two latter very frequently run side by side.