80y FBAOTUBES OF THE SCAPULA. There does not appear to be any sjDecimen of fracture of the anatomical neck—immediately mesial to the glenoid fossa. Treatment.—Sayre’s strapping applied as for fractured clavicle wmdd probably meet all requirements—raising the fragment and drawing it out and back. Cooper recommended a figure-of-8 bandage round the shoulders, crossing behind, together with an axillary pad, a bandage fixing the elbow to the side, and a sling supporting the whole fore-arm. He says that a good result should be obtained in seven'weeks. Fibrous union has occurred, once with a useful, once with a useless limb. (5) Fractures of the g'lenoid fossa are also rare. They include such injuries other than fracture at the base of the coracoid, as the chipping off of smaller or larger portions of the glenoid surface and head of the scapula. The majority occm' in connection with disloca- tions, and are unrecognised unless unprovoked recurrent displacement suggests such a complication; for the fragment is small, deeply situate, and unlikely to yield crejntus. But the glenoid fossa may be “starred,” or considerable pieces of the head of the scapula—e.g. the lower half, as in Spence’s case—may be broken off by clirect violence without dislocation of the head. Here the fragment might be felt, and deep crepitus obtained by manipulations in the axilla, and by pushing up the dropped head. The coracoid process is firm. Sayre’s strapping will form the treatment; or a sling may suffice. Fractures of the humerus,—These constitute 7-5 per cent, of all fractures. They diminish in frequency with each decennium. In the first, fractures of the lower extremity predominate over fractures of the shaft, and fractures of the upper end are few ; from 10 to 20 years of age the same order holds, but the differ- ences are less marked, injuries of the upper end being much moi’e common. Injuries of the lower end now rapidly fall off, and dis- appear in the highest periods; but those of the upper end inci’ease relatively to those of the shaft, until, in advanced age, they become the commonest fracture of the bone. Fractures of the upper end of the humerus.—The typical fractures of the upper end may be classified according as they affect: (1) the head ; (2) the tuberosities ; (3) the anatomical neck ; (4) the epiphysial line ; (5) the surgical neck. (1) The head.—Fissures of, and the chipping off of bits from the head are very rare, and probably unrecognisable during life. Massage and a sling form the treatment. (2) Tlie tuberosities are rarely fractured—the lesser very rarely, and always in connection with dislocation. Greater tuberosity —Fracture is generally associated with inward dislocation ; it accom- panies impacted fractures of the anatomical neck. Direct violence and, very rarely, muscular violence have detached the process witiiout other injury. The tuberosity is driven or dragged up and back beneath the acromion (Fig. 246), and there is nothing to depress it. Signs. The shoulder is swollen and tender, e.specially on the outer side ; it is ^id that in complete detachment of the process the head A A