VISKAl^PJS OF JOINTS. 1106 securing a firm union of the solid parts with one another, so that they will not subsequently yield to the weiglit of the body, are very great indeed in very young individuals. But, where the disease is manifestly advancing, and caseous foci are forming and are developing into abscesses, it is [dain that a state of things exists which indicates a low degree of resisting power in the tissues, and that we may expect further de.structive change in the joint, unle.ss some special measures are taken to arrest the local process. Perhaps even at this stage the local injection of iodoform emulsion, as already described, should be of some use, and certaiidy should be tried in suitable cases. Or Bier’s method of treatment by “ passive hyperaimia ” may be employed tentatively for a time. But supposing these means to have failed, and caseous abscesses to be in process of formation, what is to be done 1 The answer to this is that complete excision of the diseased material in the joint ought to be undertaken. In using the term “ excision ” it is necessary to say that it has a very difierent signification at the present time to that it was meant to imply in former days. Then it meant very free removal of much of the structures essential to the functions of the articulation, while at the same time it was far from meaning complete removal of all morbid tissue j now it means in many cases very partial interference with the structures essential to the joint, while it aims in every case at the complete removal of the diseased tissues. For such a condition, for instance, as that figured (Fig. 455), it would obviously be unnecessary now to do more than dig out the sequestra from the surfaces of the bones and scrape the lattei, which would not shorten the limb appreciably. Formerly the ends of the bones would have been sawn oil without any extra gain. It has become the fashion of late in some quarters to speak of partial excision of the joint, where the diseased synovial membrane is chiefly, or solely, removed, as “ arthrectomy,” and to reserve the term “ excision ” for that procedure involving the removal of the ends of the two bones completely. This nomenclature, however, appears to be attended with inconvenience, inasmuch as it is very rare, on the one hand, to meet with a case of disease of the knee in which the whole of the synovial membrane requires extirpation, and yet none of the bone need be removed ; and, on the other hand, it is equally rare to come upon a case which requires free removal of the ends of the bones, and yet does not call for extirpation of all the synovni structures. For these reasons I would suggest the use of the terms “ partial ” and “ complete ” excision of the knee as preferable and more accurate. The terms “ arthrectomy ” and “ excision overlap too much to be used with much advantage. Nowadays complete excision of the knee is a comparatively rare operation—that is to say, it is uncopimon ^ee the knee joint opened and the ends of both bones sawn off and fitted togethei, as was formerly so often done. The reasons for tins are twofold. In the first place the recognition of the importance of early and vigorous, as