296 SURGICAL DISEASES DUE TO MICBOBIO INFECTION. the hard brawny type, witli much pain, tension, and redness • or the limb may be simply swollen, pale, and mdematons. This is probably m part dependent on the nature of the poison and the condition o^ part on the depth and situation of the wound ® of importance as to whethei’ the wound has passed the limits of the subcutaneous aieolar tissue, and whether the wound be on the dorsal or palmar aspect of the hand. The process, as it spreads, passes most rapidly along the perivascular planes of areolar tissue and the synovial sheaths of the tendons. Deep wounds affect the subfascial structures ot the limb and the comparative depth of the tendon sheaths, and more composite arrangement of the structures of the front of the fore-arm render wounds of the flexor aspect more dangerous and more dilhcult to heal. & The advent and nature of suppuration vary. In some of the worst cases incisions allow the escape of serum, or, at the most, of very ill-formed pus, and the wounds have a gelatinous appearance. In others acute suppuration is noted on the first or second day, and IS abundant. _ On the whole, the latter is by far the most favourable condition, as it much more commonly tends to limit itself by the eventual formation of an efficient barrier of inflammatory exudation llie local signs are accompanied by general symptoms of vaiying 1 temperature rises, reaching 102° or lUd . The patient is often constipated; the tongue is foul, rapidly ecoming dry and brown j and in the fatal cases sordes may appear upon the lips. There is complete loss of appetite, and sickness may be troublesome. The patient complains of headache, general malaise, and sleeplessness, often much aggravated by the pain in the limb, and delirium is common. The urine is scanty, high-coloured, and often contains albumen. The further course may be towards resolu- tion, ot the local and general symptoms may progress, and the patient will die of septicsemia, exhaustion, or of pysemia. With regard to_ the latter termination, it must be borne in mind that definite signs of pyaemia may appear late in the case, often after the opening of abscesses in connection with the local process. Thus, in a case recorded by Billroth signs only appeared two months after an infection from a case of uterine carcinoma; and in the case of one of the post-mortem clerks at St. Thomas’s Hospital Medical School, acute pyaemia developed after the opening of an abscess subsequent to a lymphangitis fourteen days after the primary inoculation. The prognosis in these cases mainly depends on the constitution of the individual, and on the condition of the patient on the third or fourth da,y. If general symptoms continue grave after this date, a serious issue is only too often to be apprehended. A severe attack usually leaves a lasting mark on the constitution of the patient. TrsartHlGllt.—Prophylaxis is naturally of the first moment; and it cannot be too strongly urged that in no case should a post-mortem examination be performed by anyone with a wound on his hand, particularly in that most dangerous region, the margin