CONGENITAL DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. 1007 would be a better term in many of these cases, which are often found combined with “ monstrosities ” of various kinds. The pelvis may be ill-developed, and I have seen congenital dislocation asso- ciated with deficiency of the symphysis pubis and extroversion of the bladder. The head of the femur is stunted in growth or flattened and oval in shape. The ligamentum teres is absent, or represented by a long atrophic cord. The capsule is replaced by ligamentous fibres. Some authors on the contrary describe the capsule in these cases as being unusually thick and strong. The anterior portion of it is often well developed, and markedly resists downward traction. The acetabulum is flattened and shallow, of triangular form, and its rim is deficient, the stunted femoral head thus readily slipping “out and in.” A new socket lined with synovial membrane is sometimes found on the ihum. The muscles are frequently atrophic from chronic or infantile paralysis. Some are contracted, others degenerated, their true tissue being replaced by connective tissue and fat. Some diflerence of opinion exists as to whether this dislocation is unilateral or bilateral in order of frequency. From my own experience and the perusal of recorded cases, I am inclined to believe that the bilateral displacement is the more common. These cases must not be confounded with injuries of the hip-joints, produced by the efforts of the accoucheur in difficult labours. Developmental peculiarities in congenital dislocations of the hip. —The idea that congenital dislocation of the hip is due to develop- mental eri-or is far the most rational theory of the causation of this condition that we can adopt. In several recorded cases the iliac segment of the acetabulum has been absent, a shallow, triangular cavity being formed by the pubic and ischiatic segments. '^The essential point in the development of the acetabulum is a growth of pelvic cartilage round the head of the femur. This should be com- pleted about the third month. The mesoblast about the joint becomes converted into the capsule and ligaments, while the meso- blast between the head of the femur and the acetabulum forms the hgamentum teres. Irregularities in the differentiation of the mesoblast may explain the fibrous bands sometimes met with, and the ill-formed capsule. In cases of congenital displacement of the head of the femur “an absence of the margin of the acetabulum IS a prime feature ” (Lockwood). Since motion is probably essential tor the proper formation of a joint, it is interesting to observe that m some of these cases—notably in two recorded by Lockwood—the thighs have been acutely flexed, and the legs hyper-extended upon the thighs. Such a posture would prevent motion at the hip in mtra-uterine life, and militate against proper development of the Symptoms.~T\\Q gait is waddling, with a characteristic roll: the buttocks and belly are extremely prominent. The heels are not well fT)? the ground, the patient walking upon the “balls of the teet. Ihere IS very marked lordo.sis, the trochanters arc much raised above the line of Ndlaton (Fig. 4U). There is free mobility