niSJSASES OF BONES. 882 osteomyelitis ai’O tlie most important, and lead to a careful examina- tion for tlie local signs above enumerated. Shortly, they are those of septiciemia and pysemia. A man who has had a compound fracture, or w’hose leg has been removed by amputation, may show signs of septic poisoning by a high temperature with considerable fluctuations, profuse sweats, and much depression. Tlie surgeon naturally looks for some explanation, and if he finds the local condition before described, he at once suspects the presence of osteomyelitis. Should a rigor take place with a temperature of 105° Fahr., he feels convinced that such is the case. But even without this last evidence of general infection, the continuance of septic poisoning for a few days would induce him to open the wound and examine the bone in the manner detailed under treatment. If this is not done, and the case be one of osteomyelitis, the fever will continue, the rigors may be repeated, and the patient will die of exhaustion from septic poisoning or the metastatic abscesses of embolic pyaemia. TrcatmeMt.—Such a condition ought not to arise under our present method of dressing wounds. It is now happily rare, and will become still rarer as the principles of aseptic and antiseptic surgei-y are more and more enforced upon the younger generation of practitioners. If, however, it has arisen, as it must do sometimes, notwithstanding all precautions, especially after gunshot injuries, or a suspicion be entertained that osteomyelitis may be the cause of the patient’s condition, then the bone must be thoroughly exposed and examined. If the periosteum and the medulla be in the condition above described, amputation above the seat of injury should be at once performed. A difference of opinion might be entertained as to whether it is necessary to amputate above the leg in osteomyelitis of the lower third of the tibia. Those who believe that the whole bone should be removed, if it can be safely done, would amputate at the knee-joint or through the thigh. Oh the other hand, it is quite possible that an amputation through the upper third of the tibia would be above the highest extension of the osteomyelitis ; and if that is found not to be the case, the medulla may be effectually scraped Avith a sharp spoon till healthy tissues are reached, and the cavity treated wdth iodoform powder. In the case of infective osteomyelitis of the femur, an amputation at the hip-joint would be almo.9t necessarily fatal, and, therefore, amputation high up in the shaft, and scraping out of the remaining medulla if it is found to be diseased, would be the best line of treatment. The removal of the suppurating medullary tissues by scraping has been very successful, provided, of course, pytemia has not been already firmly established. It is, therefore, probable that Avith increased experience this method of treatment will be preferred to a high am- putation, even when the patient’s condition admits of its successful performance. 3, Chronic osteomyelitis takes place most frequently in con- junction with chronic osteitis and periostitis. It leads to a giadual narroAving of the medullary canal, and the bone undergoes the same