147 AOTJTE TRAJJMATIO GANGRENE. treatment should be in the first instance to disinfect the parts and wait for a time before amputating, on account of the weak condition ^Thirdly, as a general cause of gangrene we have the use of ergot. This form of gangrene sometimes occurs in epidemics, in certain re<^ions, or in certain families, and this is due to extensive infection of°the rye in the district with the claviceps purpurea, and to the patients kting large quantities of this infected rye. The early effect of erfot is to produce a tetanic contraction of the smaller blood- vessefs, and if this condition be kept up for a long time, it may end in o-angi’ene, more especially of the extremities. _ Preceding the occurrence of gangrene, the patient sufiers from diarrhoea, buzzing in the ears, hypersesthesia, cramps, coldness of the extremities, diminished arterial pulsation, etc., and this condition may or may not go on to gangrene. If the condition be recognised, the use of the infected rye bread should be stopped, large quantities of coffee should be given, and friction applied to the affected extremities. W here gangrene occurs, it usually attacks men between thirty and forty years of age much more often than women, the supposed reason being that men drink more than women, and are consequently liable to have a certain amount of endarteritis and atheroma, which, in combination with the spasm of the arterioles, is apt to end in gangrene. This fonn of gangrene is dry, but in certain cases it may be moist; and as regards its extent, it may vary from the loss of a nail to the loss of a limb. As regards the treatment, one must wait for the line of demarcation, because it is impossible to decide how much of the tissue will die. 3. Specific forms of gangrene.—In former days a variety of gangrenous processes attacked wounds, as the result of sepsis occurring in them. These are seldom or never seen now. It will probably be sufficient if we speak of three forms of specific gangrene, namely, (a) acute traumatic gangrene, (6) phagedsena, and (c) can- crum oris or noma. (ct) Acute traumatic gangrene.—This is a form which attacks wounds, and is due no doubt to the growth of bacteria in the tissues. The wounds which are more especially attacked are those which have been soiled with earth or dung, and the disease begins very soon after the accident, usually about the second or third day, and before granulation has occurred. The organisms that are at work in producing this form of gangrene, have not yet been isolated, no doubt on account of the great rarity of this trouble at the present time; but judging from the experimental evidence based on the study of organisms, producing somewhat similar processes in the lower animals, there seems little reason to doubt that they must belong to the class of bacilli and also to the class of anaei’obes. These organisms spread into the tissues with very great rapidity, and cause their death, no doubt in the main as the result of the poisons which they produce, possibly also to some extent as the result of the violent inflammation and extensive stasis that are set up.