572 DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. Fig.-164.—Venous Cyst. (Drawn from a speci- men in the Museum of St. George’s Hos- pital.) In tlie middle coat there is an increase in both the muscular and the fibrous elements, especially the latter. The outer coat is also tliickened, but to a less degree. The sheath of the vein is condensed, and the convolutions of a tortuous vein are often united together, and to the over- lying skin, by slender but firm cords and bands of fibrous tissue. The valves of varices do not undergo compensa- tory enlargement, but, on the contraiy, are often shrunken, or present in the form of cords, which may be adherent by one end only, or the valves may be entirely wanting. While the coats of a varix ai-e generally thickened, it is very important to remember that local- ised thinning is a very frequent occur- rence, particularly in the pouches. It appears to occur most markedly in certain individuals, and it is most frequent in the veins of the skin and the smaller subcutaneous veins. This thinning may be entirely absent. The general view of the nature of varix is that it is the result of over-distension of the vein and that the changes in the wall are all the result of increased venous pressure. There is much reason to think, however, that the disease is more allied to a true venous overgrowth. .Etiology.—The usual view is that varix results from a disturbance in the normal relation between the intravenous pressure and the resistance of the vein wall. This may be either an increase in the blood pressure, or a dimi- nution in the tone of the vessel. The loeakness of the vein wall may be an inherited condition, or the result of some occult error in development, or it may result from absorption of surrounding structures depriving the vessel of its wonted support, or from inflammatory changes in the outer coat of a vein, leading to its softening. It is generally held that increased intravenous pressure is the more Pig. 165.—Transverse Section of a Varicose Vein showing great and irregular thickening of the inner coat.