SYMPTOMS. 371 on the other hand, standing and walking have been possible, very In the femur the angle of the neck is reduced: the shaft foms one lart^e anterior curve; and in cases of knock-knee there is marked proportional overgrowth at the inner segment of the lower epiphysial line. A more or less well-marked abnormal muscular apophysis may represent the gluteal trochanter of the horse (Fig. 76). The tibia and fibula acquire a forward, or forward and outward, bend in the lower third, and there may be marked proportional overgrowth at the inner segment of the upper tibial epiphysis. Much more rarely a marked bend, either forwards or backwards, may be developed at the upper epiphysis. The development of bow-legr or knock-knee depends mainly on the age of the patient and the degree of walking power attained. Bow-leg is the rule in younger chfidren, as at this age the gait is rather rolling or waddling than ordinary walking. A constant effort to avoid falling forwards exerts a strain on the lower third of the leg, which accounts for the anterior curvature of the bones, while a similar corrective lateral effort to preserve the centre of gravity of the body leads to the accompanying external bend, producing bow-legs (Yolkmann). The outward curve of the leg may reach such a degree that the external malleolus rests on the ground, the foot being strongly inverted ; and in cases of extreme anterior curvature, the foot may need to be so much flexed as to touch the front of the tibial curve when the child is in the erect position. In older children, in whom ordinary walking has been acquired, the development of genu valgum is more common; and this is to be explained on the stand-at-ease theory, the weight of the trank being transmitted through the outer femoral condyle of the limb on which the body mainly rests : growth is arrested at the outer segments of the femoral and tibial epiphyses, while it occurs freely at the inner segments. In rickety genu valgum the change may be almost equally developed in the two bones, or may be more marked in the tibia; and in these circumstances a definite angular projection or a prominent bony growth—not unlike an exostosis—sometimes emphasises the position of the tibial deformity. Symptoms.—The early symptoms of rickets are insidious and Hi-defined; and infants most frequently come under the notice of the surgeon, in consequence of inabHity to sit upright, backwardness in walking or standing, or the loss of previously-attained power in these respects. Such infants are often apparently well-nourished, but on closer examination prove to be fat and flabby, the rosy shining cheeks being due to the presence of dilated capillaries. The skin is often glazed and shining, sometimes clothed with very fine scales, especially if sweating is profuse. In other cases anaemia and emaciation are well marked. The child is restless and sleeps badly. General tenderness is evidenced by the tendency to throw off the bed coverings, and local tenderness may be deduced from watch- ing the children. Cases of severe craniotabes often sleep only when sitting up in the arms of the mother, so that the head is relieved