ERYSIPELAS. 170 i-adiate from the vertex. Incisions usually cause smai-t bleeding. This is easily arrested either by ligature, or by plugging with anti- septic gauze. To make the incisions it is in most cases necessary to give an anaesthetic. After an incision has been made great care should be taken not to stri£_u£^the undermined skin with fingers or in- strument^oth^wise its remaining vascular supply may be destroyed, and it may slough. A very large, warm, carbolic or boracic fomen- tation should be applied. Great benefit is given by immersion in a bath of hot water night and morning. As a rule, this is only applicable to the arm. In subfascial cellulitis incisions of great extent may be required to give exit to pus, and to permit the cavity to close. I have had to divide the fascia lata from the great trochanter of the femur down to within two inches of the external tuberosity. Collections of pus should be thoroughly drained and the cavity washed out each day with some disinfectant. A solution of a drachm of tincture of iodine to a pint of water is a safe and fairly efficient lotion. If a stronger disinfectant be required, the liquor iodi may be used in the same proportion. If there be great fcetor, 6 per cent, carbolic lotion should be used instead of water for mixing with the liquoi iodi. Iodoform and iodoform gauze are suitable dressings for the sloughing or ulcerated wounds in cellulitis. In Ludwig’s angina, or difiuse cellulitis of the neck, the incisions ought to be made in the middle line from the chin to the hyoid bone. It may be necessary to carry them to some depth before a proper exit is given to the puti'id fluid. In cellulitis of the ischio-rectal fossa, free incisions should be made, radiating from the anus to avoid the hfemorrhoidal vessels and nerves. To prevent adhesions of joints or tendons, passive movements and massage may be required at a later period, ffidema may be treated with elastic bandaging. The other and more serious complications, such as pneumonia, nephritis, and so forth, must be dealt with as | they arise.