928 DISEASES OF TEE JAWS. similar conditions. It is said, however, that a mandible reproduced under such conditions is not permanent, but slowly re-absorbs. This is not true in all cases. In at least one instance a boy was able to crack a nut with a mandible of this kind ten years after its repi'oduction. (Warren Tay.) Pliosplioriis necrosis.—This curious and now rare disease arises from the effects of the fumes of phosphorus on the exposed pulps of teeth, and then upon the bone of the jaws. The rarity of this disease is due to the compulsory (Factories Act) examination of operatives, leading to the rejection of those with dental caries, and the employment of red amorphous phosphorus in the place of the yellow, easily oxydisable form of this element. (-Seepage 884.) The three chief features of this disease are : its insidiousness, the extent to which it may involve the jaws, and, coincident with the destruction of the bone, the formation of a sheath or shell of porous osseous material. The soft tissues overlying the jaws are swollen, spongy, and bleed freely on slight provocation. As soon as the dead bone is removed, the investing sheath of porous hone is, as a rule, quickly absorbed. The greenish colour of the necrosed fragments is often a striking feature. Although in the majority of cases phosphorus necrosis is met with in those employed in the manufacture of lucifer matches, it may occur in other circumstances ; thus, in one instance, a man suffered from this variety of necrosis in consequence of sucking habitually a piece of ginger which he carried in his waistcoat pocket with lucifer matches. In exceptional instances, fatal pyemia and abscess of the brain have supervened on phosphorus necrosis. Treatment.—Necrosis of the jaws is treated on the principles applicable to bones in general. As a rule, wait until the dead bone hL separated before attempting its removal. During the waiting period means must be taken to allow of free escape of pus, and the patient strictly enjoined against swallowing it. The mouth is kept clean by the free use of lotions containing tincture of myrrh, or very weak solutions of Condy’s fluid. The last preparation produces a superficial discoloration of the teeth, but it is easily removed by the use of a rotatory brush. Stumps of teeth in relation with the diseased segment of the jaw should be removed. Affections of the jaws—such as alveolar abscess or canes, and many cases of necrosis—would be prevented if individuals would seek more timely aid from the dental surgeon. As soon as deninl caries m under nroner treatment, will not only be arrested, ThnSseTegtas with a very sUght degree of iadammation of