DISLOCATIONS. 994 dislocation of the hip which differed notably in one or more symp- toms from the ordinarily received descriptions; and the reader would do well to look upon the explanations of the four more common dislocations of the hip as being typical, and guides to the subject in that sense only. The belief that certain positions and symptoms must inevitably occur in these accidents, may lead to woeful mistakes in practice. Arranged in order of frequency, the dislocations of the hip may be thus classified ; (1) Dislocation backwards and upwards on to the dorsum ilii; (2) Dislocation backwards into the vicinity of the sciatic notch; (3) Dislocation downwards and forwards into the obturator foramen j (4) Dislocation forwards and inwards on to the pubes. Mechanism of dislocations of tlie hip.—The capsule of the hip-joint is strongest anteriorly and superiorly. Anteriorly a fan-shaped band of dense a'nd”extremely strong fibres passes from the anterior inferior’ iliac spine to the front of the lesser trochanter and the anterior inter-trochanteric line. This part of the capsule has received the name of the Y-ligament (Bigelow). All the capsule connected with the front of the femur is exceedingly strong, while that connected with its back is weak. The capsule attached to the lower and inner aspect of the acetabulum is thin and weak. The strongest and deepest part of the acetabulum is above and posteriorly, justAvhere the capsule is strongest. The shallowest and weakest part of the acetabulum is below, near the transverse notch, where the capsule is also thin and weak. If the femur be adducted, the head of the bone passes into the deepest and most secure part of the cavity. If the femur be abducted, and especially if it be rotated inwards at the same time, it presses upon the weakest part of the capsule, and tends to sbp dveFTEe"incomplete rim of the here shallow acetabulum. The round ligament, which varies much in consistence and strength in different individuals, in excessive adduction is tense, in abduction slack, and any sudden violence may rupture it or tear it away from its con- nections. From anatomical considerations, therefore, we shall expect the head of the bone primarily to leave the capsule inferiorly in all dislocations of the hip. The examination of museum specimens, and the evidence of dissections, support the above anatomical considerations. The rent in the capsule being, in the vast majority of cases, extensive, and starting inferiorly near the transverse notch of the acetabulum, spreads towards the back of the neck of the femur. Experiments on the cadaver show that in forcible abduction the head of the bone passes out inferiorly, and is lodged in the obturator foramen, which may be looked upon as the first position of the femoral head in dislocations of the hip. Experiments upon the cadaver must, however, be accepted with caution, since no one can tell the various forces that may be at work in any given case of accident; and the secondary conti-actions of the muscles, so important