21S WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. perfectly well for ligatures, but one must be quite satisfied as to its asepticity. In order to ensure this, some surgeons take excessive precautions, the most essential of which is that they boil the silk very carefully before use. This precaution is, I believe, quite un- necessary. As I have said before, twenty-four hours’ immersion in 1 to 20 cai’bolic acid solution will ensure the asepticity of almost anything whicli can be thoroughly penetrated by the solution, and, therefore, it seems to me quite sufficient to keep the silk in it for a sufficient length of time before it is used. We, therefore, keep the silk, like the catgut, for about a week in the 1 to 20 solution before employing it. The operation having been concluded the wound must ot course be stitched up, and in connection with this point the question of drainage arises. Formerly, great stress was laid in antiseptic work on the importance of drainage of the wounds, and undoubtedly it was a matter of clinical experience that if the wounds were not satisfactorily drained, one frequently had interruption of the heal- ing- process from the large amount of serum which was poured out after the operation. This was, I believe, to a great extent due to the constant irritation of the wound with carbolic acid, more especi- ally with the sprav, and the consequent excessive amount of serum which was exuded. I certainly have found that since employing weak sublimate solutions for irrigation, this great quantity of serum is not poured out, and consequently one of the chief reasons tor employing drainage is done away with. In fact, I very seldom employ drainage of a wound unless in certain circumstances, using instead of it pressure by means of sponges incorporated in the dressing in the manner to be immediately described here howeyer, pressure cannot be satisfactorily employed, I it renders the rapid healing of the wound more certam and adds to the comfort of the patient, to insert a drainage-tube for two or three days. Such cases, for example, as the stump after amputation, where the flaps are thin and cannot be subjected to pressure, re- moval of a bronchocele, where pressure cannot be applied on accoun of the presence of the trachea, the removal of the breast m veiy thin women, where the flaps of skin are thin and might slough in very fat people also, where a quantity of oil is poured out mto the wo4d, I bffiieye that it is always best to employ drainage. ^ course in cases where the asepticity of the wound is doubtful rSr example, where there has been an open sore or a sinus in the region operated on-it is essential to employ drainage for two or three days in case the wound should not be aseptic. In ti e ereat maiority of cases, however, the wound may be sewn up with- out the use of drainage. Some surgeons stitch together the deeper rile orthe catgut s'o as to avoid the occurrence of a Lvity.but except ,there one wishes to “f tissui in order to give support to the part, I think this is unnecessary. because°the sale result will be obtarned by smUbly applied pressure.