683 SECTION OF A NEEVE. sometimes develoi), and from tliese a slow form of ulceration occasion- ally extends. The hair of the affected area often falls out and in other cases becomes brittle and stubbly. Microscopically examined, it is seen that all the glandular tissues of the skin are atrophied and that the papilljB are so shrunk as to be practically obliterated. A section of skin so altered is more like the section of a scar. The nails, as might be expected, share in the trophic changes of the skin. They may merely become fibrous and brittle, or may grow so as to be excessively curved and talon-lilce, and present deep grooves or raised ridges on their surfaces. In otlier cases they become loose and are cast off without pain. The subcutaneous tissue atrophies with the skin. The joints undergo changes which are apparently chiefly of an inflammatory nature, those of the fingers being most often and most characteristically affected. The process is closely allied to that of rheumatism and may commence within a few days of the nerve injury, with swelling of the affected articulation, and often with pain on movement, although the skui may be ansesthetic. There appears to be at this stage a synovitis, with exudation of plastic lymph and inflammation of the fibrous capsule. Such changes are very liable to terminate in the formation of adhesions and the development of a fibrous anchylosis. When many of the finger joints are affected, the hand may be crippled by these articular lesions to an extent that can scarcely be exaggerated. 3. Alteration in temperature.—For the first few days after nerve section the paralysed parts are flushed with blood, as the result of section of the vaso-motor filaments; but whilst this condition is barely noticeable and the increase in temperature only recognised by careful investigation, at a later period the paralysed parts become colder and more bloodless. The loss of temperature is very rapid and may amount to as much as eight or ten degrees, the coldness beino- very noticeable both to the patient and the surgeon. It is probable that this condition results from vaso-motor spasm, which ensues some two or three weeks after section and continues so long as the nerve remains ununited. Sypiptoius of SGCtion of 3, H6rVG.—The two chief symptoms which indicate at once that one of the nerves of the extremities has been injured are loss of power and loss of sensation. toss of power.—The muscles supplied by the divided nerve are immediately paralysed and remain in this condition so lon^ as the nerve remains ununited. Later, they rapidly waste and Regenerate. This atrophy is much more rapid and complete than can be accounted for by inability to use the affected mnsdea 01. ri produce deformity, w * 2