540 INJURIES OF RL00D-VESSEL8. wounded arteries, torsion or the ase[)tic ligature is the best means to adopt. (b) Venous.‘—The treatment of venous haemorrhage presents far less difficulty, as a rule, than does arterial bleeding. The collapsibility of a vein, the low blood pressure within it, and the negative pressure in the veins near the heart, combine to remove most of the difficulties presented by wounded arteries. As a rule, only the distal end of a wounded vein requires to be secured. But the exceptions to this rule are very important exceptions; they are first, all veins influenced by the aspiration of the chest {see page 504) ; secondly, all varicose veins; and thirdly, all veins devoid of valves on tlie cardiac side of the wound or which bleed from the cardiac end. Superficial veins are easily controlled by a pad and bandage; deejj veins should be ligatured. A punctured or lateral wound of a vein should be closed, if possible, by a lateral suture, or by a compress, without division of the vein. In the case of a wound of the main vein of a limb, it has been suggested that the companion artery should be tied as well as the vein, to prevent moist gangrene; but the suggestion is based on imperfect premises, and experience has shown it to be wrong. On the other hand, when a surgeon is ligating an artery in its continuity for any purpose, and he happens to wound the companion vein, it has been shown to be the best practice to tie the artery at another spot, either just above or just below, and to leave alone the puncture in the vein, unless blood continues to flow from it after the ligature on the artery is tied. The explanation of this point of practice is twofold : in the first place, a puncture or lateral wound in a vein heals securely without occlu.sion of the main channel; and, secondly, the ligature of a main artery in its continuity so lessens the pressure of the blood in the main veins of the part, that the feeblest adherent clot is not displaced, and the process of cicatrisa- tion of the vein is not imperilled. (c) Cajnllary hcemorrhage is readily arrested by the application of cold, of heat, or of pressure ; none of these means must be used of such intensity as to injure the living tissues. {d) PaTenchymatous JicemoTTlicige is more difficult to deal with, for it only occurs in circumstances in which the natural means of arresting hiemorrhage are at a minimum. The best means to employ are heat, the actual cautery, or the compression of a careful suture, or by means of a sponge or pad ; styptics should be avoided, as a rule. The free ha3morrhage from an incision into the kidney can often be arrested either by sponge pressure or by irrigation with hot water, and, if these fail, by a suture; haemorrhage from the placental site is best controlled by flushing the uterus with hot water ; bleeding from the liver or spleen may be ai-rested by closing the wound accurately with sutures; haemorrhage from very vascular tumours is best arrested by styptics or the actual cauteiy. Intermediary haemorrhage is that which is due to intei-rup- tion in the temporary closure of a wounded vessel. It comes on