iNJllRijSS OF BLOOD-VESSFLS. 542 has rendered it rare, although it lias not entirely abolished it from surgical practice. Csmses.—Secondary haemorrhage occurs under one of two conditions: (1) When the lumen of a vessel is opened up by ulceration of its walls (septic arteritis). (2) When the pressure of the blood within it ruptures a healing artery before a strong resisting cicatrix has been formed. 1. Septic arteritis.—The infective material may reach the artery from the general wound surface, on the weapon inflicting the wound, in the ligature applied around the artery, from an abscess cavity or infective ulcer adjacent to the artery, or from the blood within the artery. The results of such infection will vary with the intensity of the infective material and with the vital resistance of the arterial walls. Even when the ligature is septic, and suppura- tion occurs around the artery, there may be no interference Avith the plastic healing processes in the artery and its contained clot, and the vessel may be permanently and securely obliterated above and below the line of ulceration about the ligature. But if the infective material in the wound be very virulent or contains the streptococcus pyogenes, a spreading destructive inflanunation of the part may occur, and expose the patient to grave danger from bleed- ing. On the other hand, age, cachexia—especially from septicaemia and pyaemia, diabetes, chronic renal disease, or alcoholism—and advanced atheromatous or calcareous disease of the artery, are conditions which may seriously lessen -the vital resistance of an artery to septic infection and destroy its power of resisting the- attacks of pyogenic organisms. Of equal or even greater import- ance in this respect is the severance of some of the coats of an artery by a ligature or other haemostatic. With all its coats intact an artery may be bathed in pus and stand proof against ulceration; but if the middle and inner coats are ruptured and the outer coat contused or strangled, the tissues become an easy ]irey to infective organisms, and, in any case, the process of ulceration is greatly facilitated. - ' 2. Riiptuvc ©f a healing artery.—We have already seen that the clot inside a divided or ligatured artery becomes honey- combed by intercommunicating fissures into which blood floAVS from the open artery, and that these channels form connnunications Avith new vessels developed from the columns of plasma cells passing through the arterial walls into the clot. The blood, in these channels is (lowing Avith the same pressure as the blood in the artery, and thus it comes about that the young cellular tissue, Avhich is destined to repair the artery and develop into firm resistant cicatricial tissue, is exposed to considerable force; in adverse circumstances it is ruptured by it, and secondary haemorrhage results. The conditions Avhich tend to facilitate this accident are threefold: increase in the blood pressure in the repairing artery, hindrance to or impairment of the reparative process, and Aveakening of the arterial wall.