1121 SHOULDER JOINT DISEASE. in these splints is soft enough to be bent in any desired direction to suit the shape of the limb. These splints liave also the great advantage that they can be sterilised by heat. AFFECTIONS OF THE STERNO-CLAVICHLAR JOINT. The ordinary forms of simple synovitis of the articulations of the clavicle are very rare, but this joint is occasionally the seat of acute septic inflammation in the course of pyaemia or septicaemia. In such a case a swelling rapidly forms over the front of the articu- lation, and fluctuation and oedema soon follow, with pain and inability to raise the arm to the horizontal position. The general condition leaves no uncertainty as to the diagnosis and the mode of treatment. There can be no doubt that here the proper measure is early and free evacuation of the effusion with thorough drainage. If this is not done, there is great danger of rupture of the abscess on its posterior aspect, and e.vtravasation of the pus into the root of the neck and mediastinum, where it will run riot, and cannot be drained easily. Tuberculous disease is also seen in rare instances in this joint, and presents the usual characters of this affection, attacking both the synovial membrane and the bones on each side. In a case re- cently under my care it was necessary to open the joint freely, when a large sequestrum was removed from the end of the clavicle, and the cavity of the bone was gouged clean. The result was most satisfactory. Chronic rheumatic arthritis is also frequently seen to affect the sterno-clavicular joint, and has the usual characteristics seen elsewhere. The joint becomes nodular and tender, and movements of the shoulder are felt in it painfully. The presence of the same disease elsewhere helps materially in a diagnosis. The treatment is the same as that described already (page 1055). AFFECTIONS OF THE SHOULDER JOINT. This joint is comparatively rarely the seat of the affections which ordinarily attack the other articulations. The reasons for this are probably to be found in the fact that it is well covered by muscles and is thus sheltered from the vicissitudes of temperature and weather and besides is protected to a great measure from the effects of injury by the great mobility of the scapula. Nevertheless, we do occasion- ally meet with simple synovitis in its three degrees—acute, subacute, and chronic—and the septic forms of the same disease. Besides these tubercular conditions may be met with and rheumatoid arthritis. Simple acute synovitis of the shoulder.—This, when seen, is usually the result either of exposure, injury, over-use, or sti'ain. It generally manifests itself by a sense of stiffness and weakness in the part, followed by pain and swelling. The latter is best felt anteriorly over the bicipital groove and on the axillary aspect of the capsule K K r •