INJUliJES OF JOINTS. 950 treatment, and injudicious probing should be avoided. Immediate swelling of the joint is sufficiently conclusive, in ca.ses of punctured wound, to lead the surgeon to suspect that the articulation has been opened. In favourable cases, beyond a little transient effusion, nothing of note happens; the wound heals, and the articulation is soon restored to its ordinary state. In neglected punctures, and especially in dirty wounds, the phenomena of acute intra-articular suppuration ensue, and tetanus may possibly supervene if earth or street soil has gained access. Acute septic arthritis, abscess of Joint, intra-ai'ticalar abscess, suppurative synovitis. Symptoms.—The joint rapidly swells, becomes red and dusky, very hot, and intensely painful, the integuments pitting on pressure. It is usually flexed, and any attempts at movement are dreaded and resisted, the'^tient shrieking out with pain and apprehension. Occasionally, the muscles spasmodically contract, rubbing the inflamed articular surfaces upon each other. When the cartilages are eroded and the carious bone ends are thus rubbed together, agonising “jumping” pains arise, so familiar in these cases. This symptom is marked at night when the patient is “ dropping to sleep,” and the control of the will is temporarily removed from the irritated nerves and muscles. It quite prevents sleep or rest. The patient is in high fever, with a dry tongue, and in bad cases may be delirious. Rigors, sweating, and “ secondary ” abscesses may indicate pysemia. As the case progresses, the whole limb swells enormously, and abscesses form, burrowing among the muscular planes. These, when opened, leave discharging sinuses, communicating with the now carious bone ends. The joint may become displaced and totally disorganised ; or if supported in proper position, anchylosis may ultimately ensue, should the patient sur- vive. The anchylosis will be bony if the cartilages are entirely destroyed and removed. These cases may prove fatal from pysemia, septicsemia, tetanus, or exhaustion from hectic and prolonged sup- puration. They may be regarded as some of the most grave accidents of surgery. ... Treatment of wounds into joints.—In extensive injuries with comminution of the bone ends, or when compound fractures extend into large joints, as when a bullet strikes the femur in its lower third and fissures extend into the knee, amputation is often re- quisite. In some cases, and especially in the hip and joints of the upper extremity, primary re-section may be advisable. The value of con- tinuous irrigation in these cases is very great. In punctured woimds the parts should be carefully cleansed, and the wound well washed out with hot (1 in 2,000) perchloride of mercury solution. To cleanse the skin, carbolic soap and hot water may first be employed, and this should be followed by ether, and subsequently by a lotion (I m 1,000) of corrosive sublimate, with rectified spirit and hot water. The wound, if clean cut, may be accurately united at once. Should the edges of the wound be ragged and bruised, immediate union had better not be