1095 JIIP JOINT DISEASE. When this measure is regarded as proper, the first incision is usually made at the back of the joint, curving round the trochanter, and dividing the small rotators. In this way access to the head is secured, and by strong adduction and inversion the head is thrown out of the socket posteriorly, and the acetabulum is exposed. Then all diseased tissue is removed, and the head is replaced, the wound being sewn up completely or drained, according to the view of the operator as to the possibility of obtaining primary union. Another incision (Langenbeck), sometimes practised with the same object in view, is a vertical one in the axis of the neck of the femur down to the upper border of the trochanter. This gives access to the joint between the fibres of the muscles covering it, and the head of the bone can be forced out by strong adduction when the ligamentum teres is divided. My opinion, however, of these measures, which aim at eradicating the disease in its very early stages, is that they are not likely to be followed by the success hoped for, and that the cases considered suitable for these operations can be better treated by the expectant methods, holding the opera- tive treatment in reserve for such as, in spite of the latter, pass on to the stage of destruction of the head and acetabulum, and the formation of abscess within the joint. In those cases, however, in which a focus of tuberculous disease which has not yet spread to the surfaces of the joint can be diagnosed in the head of the femur (see above), an operation has more than once been done lately far short of excision, which has given excellent results. This is the trephining through the tro- chanter, right down the centre of the neck until the focus has been reached, and scraped out clear. All this can be done without open- ing the joint at aU, and if practised at an early stage may save the patient from an excision of the head later and leave all the functions of the joint intact. Cases of this form of disease, however, present themselves but rarely to the surgeon early enough for this method to be followed, but should always be looked out for. When the disease starts in the centre of the acetabulum it almost invariably spreads rapidly to the surface of the head as well as to the synovial membrane round the ligamentum teres, and this being so the prospect of saving the joint from utter destruction, otherwise than by excision of the head, is very I’emote. The head in this case acts as a barrier to prevent the products of liquefaction from working outwards, and the consequence usually is that the latter spread towards the pelvic aspect of the bone, and form an abscess internally within the pelvis. To prevent this when the condition is recognised, nothing can be done but to excise the Ijead of the femur and treat the whole condition as described above. Only when the head has been removed can the acetabular disease be satisfactoi-ily dealt with. Amputation at the lap joint.—The question whether amputation at the hip joint for tuberculous disease should bo performed must be answered in each particular case for itself. Undoubtedly, there