INJUllIES OF BL00D-VE8BEL8. 518 as if cut with a knife ] if slowly, the blood has time to coagulate within tlie vessels before they are completely severed, and the action is a tearing rather than a cutting one. Even large arteries may be thus divided without any haemorrhage if sufficient time is taken. Ecraseurs are only used where there is special difficulty in using otlier surgical haemostatics; for example, in removal of the tongue or of uterine polypi. 8. Aciiprcssiu'c is now seldom used, and only as a suture as well as a haemostatic. It is employed in this way in uniting the lips in the operation for hare-lip, etc., and may be employed in the scalp. A straight steel needle is passed under the bleeding vessel on each side of the wound, the edges of which are then held in apposition, and fixed by a figure-of-8 suture over the ends of the needle. Care must be taken not to leave in the pin too long, lest it cause ulceration, nor to apply the ligature too tight, lest it cause sloughing. If the pressure of the pin is slight, it simply occludes the vessel, Avithout rupture of any of its coats; a clot forms within it, and the usual reparative changes ensue. .If the pressure of the needle is firmer, it may rupture the inner coats in the scalp. A suture of silk or catgut is often used to unite a wound and compress a bleeding vessel in it. Suture is the best means of arresting bleeding from wounds of the liver, kidney, and spleen. 9. Forced fiexiou of the elbow or knee closes the brachial or femoral artery. It may be used as a temporary expedient to stop arterial bleeding from the hand or foot, or as an adjunct to other means. The flexion must be pushed to its extreme limit to be efficient, and this position is so inconvenient that it is rarely resorted to. 10. Torsiot! is one of the best means of arresting arterial hiemorrhage. When the cut end of an artery is seized in suitable up inside, whilst its tough and elastic outer coat curls up into a knob at its extremity (Fig. 145). An internal coagulum forms, and is protected against expulsion by the knob of outer coat. If the artery be insufficiently twisted, the outer coat untwists, and the vessel opens out again. If the vessel be overtwisted, the coiled-up outer coat is separated, and the clot loses its protection, and is apt to be displaced. The forceps should have broad ends and be bluntly serrated, so as to seize the whole artery and not tear it. Care should be taken to seize the artery cleanly, and in the case of a large vessel not to introduce one blade into its lumen. Torsion may be trusted to close even the largest arteries, and it has the advantages over ligature that the operator requires no assistance, that it is done very rapidly, and that it does not introduce any foreign material into the wound. J^isease of the inner and middle coat o.f an a>’*'ery is not a bar to Trig. 144.—Torsion Forceps. forceps (Fig. 144), gently drawn upon and then twisted about eight half turns, its brittle inner and middle coats quickly snap across and roll