BIGKET8. 364 mercury readily affects these conditions in children with a syphilitic histoiy, while in those in which such history is absent no improvement occurs. A strong proof also of the occurrence of craniotabes in rickets, apart from syphilis, is found in the fact that it is met with in a well- marked form in animals, such as monkeys (Sutton), in whom syphilis is unknown. Rickets may be associated with scurvy, the two con- ditions being induced by the same cause—e.g. improper feeding. The relation of rickets to the tubercular diathesis is not very close; the same conditions predispose to both ; but it is uncommon to find rickety children affected with the ordinary forms of surgical tuber- culosis, such as joint disease or lupus. On the other hand, the common occurrence of bronchial catarrh is, no doubt, of importance in the incidence of pulmonary tuberculosis. Time of appearance.—The disease may rarely be congenital, and marked epiphysial enlargement may be noted as early as the third month. It most commonly becomes apparent, however, about the sixth month, and rarely, if ever, occurs after the period of eruption of the milk teeth. Cases designated late rickets are met with; but these are probably recurrences of early attacks which have passed unnoticed. Even when the disease has been subjected to prolonged courses of treatment, and appears thoroughly cured, a predisposition to recurrence exists (Henoch). Morbid anatomy.—In rickets, the process of ossification of the skeleton is disturbed by irregular progress of the preparatory changes occurring at the epiphyses and in the subperiosteal layer, and the deficient deposition of Hme salts. An iU-developed substitute takes the place of normal bone, while an increase in the centrifugal absorption accompanying the natural process of formation of the medullaiy cavity and the modelling of the bones removes normal osseous tissue developed previously to the commencement of the disease. The degree to which these changes progress varies, and in severe cases a comparatively soft yielding column takes the place of a properly resistant bone. In the normal course of development of the skeleton, certain physical forces—especially muscular action—influence the contour of the bones, producing regular curvatures and eminences, both in individual bones and in those arranged in series. Such cmwes normally serve the purposes of endowing the bones -with strength to resist intrinsic and extrinsic force, give elasticity, and pi’ovide for the exertion of more effective leverage by means of the muscles. Rickets occurs dui’ing the active development of these changes of form and outline, and the inefficient resistance offered by the affected bones leads to exaggeration of the eminences and curvatures. The primary d^ormities in early rickets, therefore, consist almost entirely in the exaggeration of normal curves, while to these, various deformities dependent on pressure exerted by the weight of the trunk and extremities in tlie acts of sitting, crawling, or walking, are super- added at a later date. Deformity thus produced is rendered the more striking by limited growth in length of the bones, the temporary