DEFECTIVE UNION OF FBAOTURES. 791 acting all the time, we may feel sure that bony union will not occur after a year. An anatomical examination much earlier than this would often shoAv that there was no chance of bony union. In some cases calhis forms slowly and in small quantity—either on account of general depression or because tlie stimulus of the injury has been slight, as in fissure of the skull: mobility remains, the callus tumour is small or absent, the ends of the fragments, if supei’- ficial, remain sharp and clear to touch. In other cases the callus tu/mour forms well, hut does not ossify firmly for weeks or months: on removal of splints more or less mobility or excessive yielding is noticed, and deformity ensues if the limb be used. Pseudarthrosis. — This is a general term used to indicate the permanent presence after a fracture of abnormal mobility in the length of a bone due to (1) fibrous union, (2) non-union, or (3) false joint, Pseudarthrosis occurs once in 200 to 250 cases; at all periods of life, even intra-uterine; more often in men than in women (5’5 to 1); it is most common from 20 to 30 years, but common from 20 to 50 ; it is uncommon in childhood and old age in proportion to the frac- tures occurring. Fractures of the humerus and femur yield an ex- cessive number- of delayed unions and pseudarthroses, those of the 22s.—A longitudinal Section of an leg-bones about a normal, and those the Femur. No union has occui-red, of the fore-arm bones less than a 1?® having pierced normal share. between the two fragments above the 1. Fibrous union is by far rateUa^ pt. Bartholomew’s Hospital the commonest variety. Callus forms, but fibrous tissue with little bone develops from it. Ulti- mately a long and loose, or short and dense fibrous bond unites the fragments, the ends of which may be rounded off or rendered irre- gular by bony stalactites ; displacement and mobility may be very great or very slight, the utility and wasting of the part \'arying inversely as the mobility. 2. Non-union is much less frequent. There is little or no bond between the fragments ; they are widely separated by tlie in- tervention of some mass of tissue (Fig. 228), or loss of substance in one of two parallel bones has left a considerable gap, or the end of