690 DISEASES OF NERVES. by the displaced bone, or may be so stretched tliat their fibres are lacerated. In the dislocations of the shoulder joint, any of the cords of the brachial plexus may be torn, or the circumflex alone may be contused and stretched by the downward displacement of the humerus. Rup- ture of the plexus in the neck or tearing out of the roots from their insertion into the spinal cord may also result. Of these conditions, mere contusion and stretching are fortunately the most common, and in such cases it is generally evident that there is no paralysis of any one nerve, but rather a partial loss of sensation and a want of power, without absolute muscular paralysis. In rupture of the brachial plexus, however, there is usuaUy a very widespread paralysis; and when an opportunity of examining such cases has been afibrded, it has generally been found that the roots are torn out from the spinal cord instead of the cords them- selves being lacerated. The extent of the paralysis will depend on the number of nerve roots so mvolved, but in almost any case it is noticeable that such muscles as the supraspinatus, the rhomboi^, and other scapular muscles are paralysed, which could not be aflected if the lesion were in the axOia. In these cases also of tearing ou of the roots, the motor nerves for the dilator fibres of the ins, which pass from the cervical cord to the sympathetic trunk, are usually involved, and thus the pupil on the affected side is smaller than its fellow and does not actively dilate in dim lights. PART II. DISEASES. I NEURALGIA. Neural "ia may be shortly defined as local pain without local signs of inflammation or disease. In many cases there is no definite cause, but such general conditions as anaemia and fe^le health appear to account for a large proportion of these cases. Other moie definite constitutional conditions, such as gout and rheumatism, appear to act as predisposing causes m many patients, wins mSarial fevers of any kind and influenza may be cited as acquired diseases, which directly cause neuralgia in a large proportion of those who suffer from them. • Causes.—The chief exciting causes are: (1) exposure to cold_, (2') pressure on or irritation of nerve trunks; (3) peripheral irri- tation ; (4) irritation or disease of the central nervous system. It appears probable that cold acts by causing inflammation of the Lrfe sheaS, but from a surgical point of -ew neuralga caused by pressure is of more mterest and importance. It 1im already heel pointed out, in dealing with pressure upon nerves tl a loss of power and of sensation may be caused thereby, ^ut pain also mav be very severe. Thus, the neuralgic pains caused by the preLure of Rioracic aneurysm on the intercostal nerves may be a