RICKETS. 372 from pressure j and older children often lie on their stomach, resting the less tender frontal region on the pillow. Again, lifting the child by the hands placed round the chest often produces evident suffering. In many cases, however, these local signs are insigni- ficant. The head sweats profusely, often soaking the pillow, while the greater part of the trunk and extremities remain dry. At times eruptions of sudamina are seen, especially on the flexor aspects of the limbs. The general temperature is, usually, little raised. General paUor of the mucous membranes is common. In some cases, gastric catarrh, accompanied by flatulence, vomit- ing, and diarrhoea, the stools being clay-coloured and offensive, are prominent symptoms ; but in others digestion is apparently good. The urine contains an excess of phosphate of lime, which may be increased by the use of the earthy phosphates medicinally. The spleen and liver are occasionally much enlarged. Bronchial catarrh is a frequent complication; and this, especially in conjunction with other infantile diseases, is the most common cause of death in rickety children. Rickets is also the most common cause of laryngismus stridulus, and a fertile source of infantile convulsions. The varying deformities resulting from the disease have already been dwelt upon, and careful inspection and palpation will reveal them in varying stages of devel- opment. Signs are usually earliest in the skull, then in the thorax and later in the spine and extremities. Enlargements of the epiphyses in the upper extremity—particularly at the lower end of the radius—are more marked than in the lower ; on the other hand, marked deformities from bending and unequal growth at the epi- physial lines are more common in the lower extremity. Diagnosis.—lu the early stages, especially when craniotabes is a prominent symptom, care must be taken to discriminate rickets from infantile syphilis. The history, both parental and of the child, together with the possible presence of co-existent undoubted signs of syphibs, usually allows a correct diagnosis to be made. The apparent prominence of the head occasionally leads to suspicion of hydro- cephalus ; while loss of power, more or less sudden, in one or more limbs may suggest infantile paralysis. Careful inspection and palpation of the head and epiphyses is the best safeguard against error in such cases. The frequency of rickets as a cause of laryngismus stridulus must be borne in mind in any case of difficult breathing of a laryngeal nature. . . , .,j Prognosis.—The disease is rarely fatal in itself, but many cluld- ren succumb to the commoner complications or intercurrent diseases. The amount of permanent deformity left varies much in degree, in accordance with the severity of the attack, the efficiency of the treatment adopted, and also in the different bones affected. Con- secutive growth tends to reduce curvatures of the long bones, so that at seven or eight years they may be hardly apparent; and, consider- iivr the frequency of these deformities, it is very striking how few