210 WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. wliicli may grow in it. The early disappearance of the blood clot and the occurrence of traumatic fever and of septic intoxication are often associated with and, no doubt, in part, due to the growth of ordinary saprophytic and putrefactive bacteria in the fluids and blood of the wound, and although these organisms arc not parasitic and cannot penetrate into the living body, their chemical products are intensely poisonous and irritating, and if absorbed may cause very serious effects. I have already described, in speaking of suppuration (page 82), how it is that these organisms produce an acute abscess, and the process is exactly the same where, instead of causing the formation of pus in a closed cavity, they lead to granulation and suppuration from the sui'face of the wound. I have already discussed the conditions under which these organisms can act in the tissues, and the same facts hold good with regard to open wounds. More especially it must be borne in mind if these organisms are likely to enter, that the manipulations of the surface of the Avound should be particularly gentle, so that as healthy a tissue as possible is opposed to their entrance. Where this point is not attended to, these organisms are particularly likely to gain a foothold in the tissues and cause suppuration, and thus prevent healing by first intention ; while if parts of the wound are much bruised, actual sloughing may take place. As to the mode in which these organisms enter wounds, they may fall in along with the dust of the air, but most usually they are conveyed to it from the instruments or the operator’s hands, or grow into it subsequently from the skin of the patient himself. These pyogenic organisms seem to be normal inhabitants of certain parts of the surface of the skin, more especially parts that are moist, for example, the axillse, perineum, the space between the toes, etc., and unless special care be taken to destroy those which are present on the surface of the skin, they may, after the operation, spread^ into the wound and grow there, producing the various effects to which I have referred. In fact, it is but seldom that these organisms gain entrance to the wound along with dust, because they die soon if they be allowed to dry, and consequently, unless when one is operating in hospitals, or in places where there are patients with septic wounds, and where therefore the drying of the discharge containing the organisms has only recently taken place, living organisms are not likely to be introduced from the air. ° We must also consider the various modes in which the life and action of these organisms may be interfered with. They grow very readily on a variety of soils outside the body, but one very essential condition of their growth is that the nutrient material shall contain a larc^e quantity of water, at least 90 per cent. Where the nutrient material is too concentrated bacteria cease to groAV, or groAV only with ♦Treat difficulty and without any marked degree of virulence, and this IS a point of great importance to bear in mind in the treatment of wounds, because if it be not possible to exclude bacteria from wounds, one way in which their action may be interfered Avith is