IV. ULCEEATION. By W. WATSON CHEYNE, F.E.S., F.E.C.S., Swveon to King's College Hospital; Professor of Surgery at King's College. It has already been pointed out (Art. II. page 60) that inflamma- tion, -when it has reached the stage of the formation of granulation tissue, and is affecting a free surface, may terminate in ulceration. Instead of the healing process taking place there ensues a gradual extension of the sore, either with or without suppuration, owing to breaking-down of the tissue which forms its surface, the result either of degenerative changes from imperfect nutrition, or of actual gan- grene of microscopic portions of the tissue. True ulceration is an inflammatory process, and no breach of surface can be called an ulcer in which the inflammatory changes have not already gone on to the stage of granulation. This defini- tion distinguishes true ulceration from a recently made wound on the one hand, or from the breaking-down of a tumour on the other. Classification of ulcers.—There are three kinds of sores which are included under the head of ulcers. 1. In the first place we have those which are not due to any specific virus, but which are caused by various local disturbances which interfere with the vitality of the part, more especially disturb- ances in the circulation or in the innervation of the tissue. These are generally spoken of as chronic non-infective %dcers, tlie chronic character varying considerably in certain circumstances, some, indeed, almost deserving the title of acute ulcers. 2. The second group is composed of ulcers which result from the development in the part of a definite specific virus, more espe- cially of the virus of tuberculosis or of syphilis; they are termed chronic infective ulcers. In these specific ulcerations there is a tendency to degeneration of the surface of the sore as the result of the action of the specific virus, quite apart from disturbances in the circulation or in the nervous supply of the part. 3. The third group consists of tumours of various kinds, more especially malignant tumours which have invaded the skin or led to sloughing of the skin over them, and the surface of which is breaking down; these are either cancerous or sarcomatous ulcers. From what has been ah’eady said it is evident that these sores do