126 ULGE RATION. cells present in rodent ulcer are smaller than the ordinary squamous epithelium, and the nuclei are spindle-shaped; and it has been supposed by some that the rodent ulcer originates in the sweat glands, and by others that it originates in the sebaceous glands. It is apparently clear that it does not originate in the surface epithe- lium. The amount of cancerous material present at the edge or the base of the ulcer is quite small in most cases, and may indeed be in parts entirely wanting, the fact being that the new growth ulcerates almost as fast as it forms, and hence it was that formerly, in spite of microscopical examinations, the cancerous nature of the disease was not recognised. The treatment of rodent ulcer consists in free and complete removal of the dis- ease ; and where the ulcer is still limited to the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and has not penetrated into the sinuses in the various bones about the face, if the removal be sufficiently free, the disease will be cured. The cases which recur so obstinately after removal are cases where the disease has passed deeper, and where por- tions are left be- Fig 23.—Section of a Rodent Ulcer, stowing tte Tubes of "Epitbeliuin spreading in the subcutaneous Tissue. The surface epithelium is also shown on the left side, and the larger size of these cells is evident. hind in some small cavity in the bone. Some surgeons prefer the employment of caustics, with the view of destroying the disease; and in cases where a bone is affected—such as the frontal bone— this is probably the best method of treatment. The caustics which are found to be most efficient are sulphuric acid, Vienna paste, or potassa fusa. In applying any of these caustics the patient should be either ansesthetised in the first instance or, if it is to be a pro- longed application, kept fully under the influence of inorphia, cocaine having been applied to the sore, and injected beneath it, so as to diminish the pain. In using sulphuric acid, the commercial acid is mixed up with sawdust to form a paste, which is applied, and left on until the action is complete. Probably, in the case of a rodent ulcer from half an hour to an hour will suffice. Where potassa fusa is usk the action is very much more rapid, and must be carefully watched ; and as soon as it is considered that sufficient has been done, an application of vinegar will arrest the action of the caustic.