175 fatholooy. inoculations with attenuated cultures of streptococci. This is the same method as that by which Tizzoni and Cattani produced immu- nity a<^ainst tetanus. It throws an interesting light upon the com- parative safety which demonstrators of anatomy and pathologists enjoy from pymmia and septicaemia; also upon the rapid-healing after amputations for prolonged suppurative arthritis. It may be inferred that influences similar to the above predispose man to pyaemia. It is recognised that it is more apt to occur after starvation, debility, alcoholism, anaemia, severe haemorrhage, pro- longed shock, and wasting diseases, such as albummuria and diabetes. Parturition, too, is often accompanied with local and general con- ditions which predispose to pyaemia. Unhealthy environments may also predispose to pymmia, and thus it is rife in hospitals or dwell- ino-s which are ill-drained, ill-ventilated, or overcrowded. Obviously, most of this class of conditions are also such as would enhance the dangers of actual bacterial infection. _ Even where they prevail the liabflity to pyaemia is immensely diminished by antisepsis (Von Nussbaum). Certain local predisposing causes influence the occurrence of pyae- mia. Wounds in certain positions are more exposed to infection than others. Such, for instance, as those about the mouth, air-pas- sages, alimentary tract, anus, scrotum, axilla, or scalp. Also wounds which are the result of accident are more likely to be infected than those which surgeons inflict. But after bacteria have been introduced, the local predisposing conditions must be such as (a) favour their multiplication in the wound; and (b) favour their passage into the circulation. The local conditions that favour the multiplication of the bac- teria which cause pyaemia are the same as those which favour sepsis and suppuration. (See page 81.) Pathology and morbid anatomy. 1. The comiition of the wound.—In clean-cut wounds in healthy tissues infection makes but little headway, but flourishes in such as are lacerated, bruised, infiltrated with blood, deprived of their blood or nerve- supply, or injured with chemicals. Foreign bodies and blood-clots in the depths of wounds are also suitable nidus for bacteria to grow in, and collections of fluid are especially favourable. Such infected wounds have no granulations or pus, and are usually in a state of acute septic inflammation. The wounds associated with pyaemia usually throb and are painful, hot, swollen, red, with acute lym- phangitis and adenitis of neighbouring lymphatic glands; they often gape and display a dry and glazed surface, covered in places with ashen lymph; they may secrete a purulent, sanious, or stinking dis- charge, which often accumulates in the depths, and ulceration, sloughing, or gangrene may be in progress. Not infrequently there are tenderness and induration along the veins running from the wound towards the heart. When the bones are involved there are pain and tenderness, and, perhaps, thickening along them, and other evidence of acute osteomyelitis.