4-20 SYPHILIS. Tlio patient whilst under treatment should be strictly temperate in his mode of life, especially as regards alcohol, and whilst under iodides should clothe warmly and avoid all risk of catching cold. Tt is genei’ally advisable to take the drug shortly after a meal. The local treatment of lesions of the mouth, skin, etc., has been already indicated. Iodoform, iodol, calomel in powder are all useful; whilst for the skin ulcers the red oxide of mercury ointment, the oleate, the yellow oxide or the dilute nitrate of mercury ointment may be mentioned. As regards the prognosis, very much depends on the date at which the treatment is begun and the thoroughness with which it is carried out. Syphilitic disease of the brain, especially when due to vascular lesions, is perhaps the least hopeful; but even here complete and permanent cures are not unknown. Some patients unfortunately can take neither iodides nor mercury, but these cases are quite exceptional. Tonics, country or sea-air, and careful dieting have each their place as adjuvants in the treatment of tertiary syphilis. INHERITED SYPHILIS Phenomena of inherited syphilis.—Syphilis when mhented from one or other parent by the otispring must be regarded as prac- tically the same disease as when acquired. It observes the same stages, many of the symptoms are identical in the two cases, an the same parts of the body—e.5-. the long bones, and those ot the cranium, the iris, the skin—are very commonly affected in the course of inherited as in acquired syphilis. Further, it would seem tha the'subjects of the inherited form have a certain amount 01 im- munity from contracting syphilis again. But some lesions due o the former—such as interstitial keratitis—are almost, if not > confined to inherited or congenital syphilis ; and on the whole, tHe tertiary symptoms of the latter are decidedly less amenable to treat- ment than those of the acquired disease. The inheritance may be through the father or the rnother, or Imth. If the mother have suffered severely from syphilis, there will e a strong tendency to abortion or premature birth, and this en ency may last through many years. As a rule, it gradually dies ou • effect of mercurial treatment is most marked in these cases, it happens that a woman contracts syphilis whilst pregnant; mercury lie promptly and continuously given, the chil “^7 0 full time, and even present no symptoms of syphilis after regards the father, it has been already stated that, • mercurial treatment be carried out for eighteen months or s , ^ fairly safe for a man to marry after two years have ™ appearance of the last symptom of syphilis , at the sam wise to wait considerably longer, if possible. observed Colles’s law.-A very curious fact is where the husband has lately had syphilis and h s child herits the disease-naniely, that the mother, little or no evidence of syphilis herself, may ye su