44 SURGICAL BAOTSBIOLOGY. interest principally from the fact that it is found in the nasal secre- tions of patients sulfering from the disagreeable disease of oziena, though it has not yet been proved that it has anything to do with that°condition beyond mere association. The organism, separated by Hajek in 1888, consists of a short bacillus a little longer than broad, the elements of which are usually arranged in pairs or in short chains. It "rows on the ordinary media at the temperature of the room, the colonies becoming visible at the end of 36 hours, and giving li^e to liquefaction and the formation of gas. On agar-agar plates the colonies have a granular appearance and the margins are fringed, the surface of the growth being moist and slimy-looking when in contact with the air. Grown on blood serum, at the temperature ot the body, they form a whitish layer, from which is emitted a very dis- aareeable putrefactive odour. Its injection subcutaneously into rabbits and mice is followed by intense local inflamination, whiclys succeeded by spreading gangrene of the connective tissues, in the same year, 1888, Lumnitzer also separated an organism from a case ©f putrid bronchitis, which emits a disagreeable odour, and sets up intense local inflammation and a spreading gangrenous process. The anaerobic bacilli.-The anaerobic bacilli, unable to live in the blood on account of the large quantity of oxygen therein contained, are nevertheless capable of multiplying locally in the sub- cutaneous tissues or in masses of fibrin ; in fact, cut off from a localised area by disease processes. When these organisms have gained a foothold in any localised Pf ^ like the diphtheria bacillus, able to manufacture and distiibute then soluble poisonous products to all parts of the body. 1 Bacillus tetani (Plate II. Fig. 13).-^riie most impor a^it of thes. anaerobic bacilli ia tbe Bacillus tetam Nicolaier in 1884, although it not until obtained pure cultures by heating for one hour at 80 O. tie p token from a wound. By this method all other except those of the tetanus bacillus, were killed , the tetanus bacillus were then sown in media P'^ m i^ek from which all the air could be exhausted or drnen out by means ''C'oSanism is a thin straight baefflus “rlTLSi develop Tfese sQs method (page 51); the spores, however, require to be ^thmied^ f Si is3«rn SSSmEaZtohrinly retained, so that it is a