747 DISPLACEMENT OF FRAGMENTS. m placed in modes and in directions which do not admit of classifi- cation. Causes of displacement.—The direction and nature of the line of fracture, though not causes, have a most important influence. The more nearly transverse the line, the more irregular the surfaces, the less the tendency to displacement, and vice versd. Also, any lateral displacement is usually determined by the direction of the broken surfaces, which glide on each other. For instance, in the upper third of the femur the usual line of fracture is from above, downwards and for- wards, and the lower fragment glides upwai-ds and backwards under the influence of the hamstrings; as it does so it hitches against and pushes forwards the upper fragment, thus helping the psoas to flex it (Fig. 284). If the fracture line tend inwards or outwards in its course, the lower fragment, as it ascends, will push the upper fragment inwards and outwards ; and lastly, if the line be unusual—i.e. from above downwards and backwards—the lower fragment rises in front of the upper, and by its weight annuls the effect of any contraction of the ilio-psoas which may occur; it thus prevents the usual deformity (Fig. 285). The actual causes of displacement are :— (1) The fracturing force which, continuing to act upon the fragments, drives them before it. Certain displacements — e.g. impaction — are always due to this cause. (2) Elasticity of the soft parts. (3) Muscular contraction, formerly assumed to be constant or “tonic.” But this is not the case. The muscles contract inter- mittently under nervous stimulation, voluntary or involuntary, and produce an effect upon the fragments, which is the resultant of the various forces, and the resistances which they have to overcome. Frequently fragments are displaced by muscles which have no opponent attached to the fragments—e.g. the upper fragment of Pi-onator teres, is completely supinated by the first contraction of the biceps; there is no muscle on '''''' pronate it, so we have no choice in our m-avhvto the upper. Again, would naturally tend to undo is often mu.scular contraction, but its power to act are^ the horizontal position. Muscular contractions weiUf J ^ ^ery important cause of displacement. (4) The ei ht of the part. Almost invariably the lower fragment of a fractured ^spine drops backwards, and, unless carefull/ supported! Fig. 215.—A left Radius repaired after Fracture in tlie upper Third of its Sh.aft. Tile upper fragment is fully supi- nated ; the lower is drawn up and in by the pronator teres. (Uni- versity College Mu- seum, No. 209.)