158 ERYSIPELAS. impossible to say -whether a case shoiild be called one of simple erysipelas -with slight suppuration, or one of slight cellulitis with cutaneous erysipelas. Difficulties of the same kind occur in separating cellulitis from phlegmonous erysipelas, because in cellulitis there is sometimes redness of the skin with vesication and bullm. Frequency.—In sixteen years, from 1878 to 1893 inclusive, 875 cases of simple erysipelas were treated in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, and 800 cases of phlegmonous erysipelas and of cellulitis. The numbers from year to year exhibit great fluctuations. The great prevalence of erysipelas in certain years suggests that it may, like other infective diseases, become epidemic. The spread of it seems also to be favoured by the autumn and winter seasons. I. SIMPLE CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS. g0a-j;_—Cutaneous erysipelas has a marked predilection for certain regions of the body, and is especially prone to attack the face and head. Here it can usually be sho-wn to have originated in some scratch or abrasion, or in an acne pustule, or from suppuration around the fang of a tooth, and to have spread from the interior of the throat or nose. It is a not infrequent complication of minor operations upon the scalp, such as those for the removal of sebaceous tumours. When the attack is in full career, the point of inoculation may not be found, having disappeared, or become obscured, by the violence of the inflammation. Incubation period.—The incixbation period of cutaneous ery- sipelas is uncertain, and is variously stated as being eight hours to two days (Ritzmann), or from one to eight days (Pujos). When Fehleisen inoculated cases of cancer and tubercle with the Strep- tococcus erysipelatis, the incubation period was from flfteen to sixty- one hours, reckoning from the time of the inoculation to the first rif^or, which usually coincided with the rash. In injuries and in operation cases the erysipelatous blush usually appears after reac- tion. When erysipelas complicates wounds it begins at their margins, but may spread to distant regions. Symptoms.—The loc^&l symptoms of cutaneous erysipelas are objective and subjective. The most striking objective symptom is the rapidly spreading redness of the skin. This is at first a mere blush, which disappears easily on pressure, and then a vivid red, but later it becomes a deep crimson, which is harder to efface by pressure, and which returns as soon as the pressure is removed. The ery- sipelatous skin is hot to the touch, and there are swelling and oedema. The latter are greatest where the cellular tissue is loose, as in the eyelids, penis, and scrotum. On the other hand, when the skin is bound down, as at Poupart’s ligament, the iliac crest, the palms of the hand, soles of the feet, and at the chin, the swelling does not occur, and the disease seems to be arrested. The swelling which is caused by erysipelas pits on pressure, but is hard, especially at the margin where the disease is spreading. The induration is caused by the effusion of inflammatory lymph into