201 SYMPTOMS OF TETANY. mechanical or electrical stimuli, and by compression of the g^at arterial or venous trunks, or by tapping the motor nerves, ihe spasms of the facial muscles, caused by tapping the facial nerve, are said to be pathognomonic of tetany (Chvostek’s sign), as is also the spasm of the limb-muscles caused by pressure upon the main vessels (Trousseau’s sign). The slight attacks of tetany which are seen in children are often relieved by cold applications. In surgical prac- tice, tetany is most often met with after complete removal of the thyroid gland, and is then exceedingly fatal in its effects. After partial extirpations it is almost unknown. Women are most prone to its attacks, but men are sometimes affected. Tetany occurred twelve times in fifty-three cases operated upon by Billroth, and of these twelve no less than eight died. The onset of tetany may be delayed for weeks, or it may occur directly after the operation. It may be fatal in a few hours, or last for many months. During its course, owing to the muscular spasms, the face may be distorted so as to assume a risus sa/rclonicus; the eyes may squint; the jaws may be clenched, so as to interfere with speech, mastication, and deglu- tition ; there may be dyspnma, due to spasm of the larynx, or of the thoracic and abdominal muscles ; and lastly, the limbs are flexed at nearly all their joints, and the hands are clenched, with the thumb flexed and adducted into the palm of the hand, or amongst the fingers. The temperature in tetany is usually elevated, but not immoderately. After death from tetany no characteristic morbid change has been found. Experimental pathology shows that tetany is common, and can easily be studied, after the removal of the thyroid gland of carnivora, such as cats and dogs. In addition to a notable fall of tempei’ature, many of the animals treated in that manner show characteristic signs of tetany. There is reason to suppose that the symptoms may be abated by massive doses of thyroid juice, or of thyroid extract. Hitherto treatment seems to have had little influence over this disease in the aggravated form in which it is sometimes met with in surgery. General measures directed towards the maintenance of the strength by nourishment and stimulants are indicated. Also chloral hydrate, bromide of potassium, or morphia to relieve the pain and spasms. Perhaps something may be ultimately hoped for from treatment with thyroid juice or extract. u