431 INHERITED SYPHILIS. Fig. 91.—Teeth from a Case of in- herited Syphilis, showing the convergence of the upper central incisors and a deep semilunar notch in each of them at their cutting edge. chronic enlargement. Gummata may develop in the testicle, liver, spleen, or other viscera, including the brain. _ , , , ^ It is impossible here to review the various cerebral disorders that may be due to inherited syphilis. It must suffice to state that they form a large and important group; that clinically _ we meet with epileptiform convulsions, hemiplegia, paralysis of cranial nerves (especially the oculo-motor ones), dementia and insanity, which appear to owe their origin to this disease. Pathologically, we know that it may lead to narrowing or throm- bosis of cerebral vessels, to chronic meningitis, to gummata of the cortex, etc. Possibly also locomotor ataxia may occasionally be due to inherited syphilis, though the influence of the acquired taint is of far greater im- portance in this respect. The diagnosis of inherited syphilis.—We have seen how multi- form are the lesions which may be produced, and how closely some of them resemble those caused by rickets, ^ and still more those due to tuberculosis. Only of late yeais have many of the symptoms been rescued from the domain of both, and ascribed to their true origin. To make a correct diagnosis^requires, in many cases, the most thorough examination of the patient s history and concomitant symptoms. The greatest help is frequently obtained from the condition of the incisor teeth; for a considerable propor- tion of the subjects of inherited syphilis have their upper central incisors notched and narrowed, as shown in Fig. 91. The cones of these teeth are directed somewhat towards the middle line, and their cutting edge is marked by a semi- lunar notch. Similar changes, on a smaller scale, are sometimes observed in the upper lateral in- cisors or those of the lower jaw. They are absolutely conclusive as proofs of congenital syphilis, but it must be clearly understood that only the permanent set show these changes, and that, unfortunately, only in a moderate percentage of cases. The horizontal wearing away of enamel, which is often due to mercurial stomatitis in infancy, is shown in Fig. 92, and must not be confounded with that previously described; naturally the same patient may present both syphilitic and mercurial changes ’Sr 'Si - Fig, 92.—Teeth, from a Case in which severe Mercurial Stomatitis had been present during Infancy. The enamel IS worn off horizontally, and the cutting edges are irregular.