359 TREATMENT. ophthalmia, chronic otorrhcea, enlarged glands, “white swellings of ioints bone disease, “ strumous ulcers,” cold abscesses, lupus and iertain other less well-defined conditions. At one time the manifesta- tions of hereditary syphilis were included under the term scrofula and indeed, that term was employed to cover any condition ot ill- heal’th in a child to which a more precise term could not be applied. It has now been shown that there is no disease requiring the special designation scrofula. The term was a convenient term to cover imorance. It has served its purpose and may now be most profitaUy abandoned. The diseases commonly called scrofulous Lve been long since shown to be of a tuberculous nature. There can be no object in still retaining the term, even if limited in application to the commoner external manifestations of tuberculosis. It was to the coarse or phlegmatic type of tuberculous individual that the terms “strumous” and “scrofulous” were usually applied. The general treatment of tuberculosis.—It will be only appropriate to refer to those forms of tubercular disease which come under the surgeon’s notice. A considerable part of the treatment of such forms of tuberculosis depends mainly upon obvious measures of common sense. _ , u n (Ij Any irritating or localising cause of the trouble should be sought for and, if possible, removed. Thus, in a case of enlarged cervical glands, hypertrophied tonsils and post-nasal growths should be got rid of, diseased teeth should be treated, and attention should be given to phlyctenular ophthalmia, to discharges from the nose or ear, to eruptions on the scalp, and such other disturbances in the periphery as may tend to induce secondary tuberculous changes in the glands. (2) In the second place, the involved part should be kept at rest. This is very obvious in the case of diseases of bones such as those of the spine, and in joints such as the hip or knee; but it is not so often insisted upon as it should be in connection with glandular affections. When the glands are in the axilla the arm should be kept at rest; and when they involve the neck, that ever-moving part of the body should be fixed by some simple collar or stock. (3) In the third place, the tuberculous disease should be thoroughly eradicated in suitable cases. In estimating the suitability of a case, it would be assumed that the local disease was well ad- vanced, that it had progressed as far at least as caseation, that its removal could be entirely effected without undue risk, and that the prospects of spontaneous recovery were either hopeless or, at least, uncertain and remote. In connection with this point a considerable degree of discretion must be exercised. There can be little doubt that a long-abiding tuberculous ulcer, a caseous tonsil, or a broken- down or softening gland had better be disposed of by operation with as little delay as possible. But, on the other hand, it must be remembered that under the expectant treatment tuberculous troubles have exhibited remarkable powers of recovery. Glands, after remaining in evidence for months, may disappear ;