599 effects of aneurysm. Hospital Museum.) rarely, if ever, causes T • this thickens and strengthens the sac on its outer S Lats to-ether the tissues. In certain circumstan^ces rente suppuration, may be produced. From their uroximity to arteries veins are very often compressed, and more or F nc+^MiPti'on is offered to the venous circulation, leading to cyanosis and oedema of the parts beyond, with dilatation of the smaller veins. A vein may be ultimately obliterated by the pres- sure or its wall “ ulcerated ” and a communication opened between it and the aneurysm. {See Varicose aneu- rysm, page 636.) By a- similar process an aortic aneurysm may form a communica- tion with the pul- monary artery. Lym- phatics are com- pressed, and pressure upon the thoracic duct leads to wasting and to chylous ascites. The pressure of an aneurysm often produces great changes in skeletal structures. "Nerves are stretched, flat- tened out, and under- go degeneration: this leads to neuralgic pain, numbness, anses- thesia, and paralysis of muscles. Pressure on a motor nerve spasm of the muscles supplied by it; pressure on the phrenic is said to cause spasm of the diaphragm : and pressure on the inferior laryngeal nerve is said to cause laryngeal spasm; but it is doubtful how far this occurs. Pressure on a mixed nerve may cause spasm by reflex irritation: in this way pressure on the vagus may excite spasm of the larynx on the opposite side. Bones are absorbed, being hollowed out, perforated, and removed without signs of inflammation : this is most often seen in the spine and sternum (Fig. 173). Cartilages, whether costal, intervertebral, or articular, have much greater power of resisting absorption, and may be unaltered when bones and fasciie have disappeared, but they are flattened out or displaced by large aneurysms. Fasciae are stretched, thinned, and then blended with the sac. Muscles are displaced, Fig. 173.—Large Sacculated Aneurysm of the Descending Aorta with Absorption of the Bodies of several Vertehr®. The intervertebral discs show no change. (Middlesex