20 SUUOIOAL BAOTFAIIOLOGY. tlio ciystals, rather than form an integral part of them. An im- portant crystalline alkaloid, however—j)h^^osin^—ha.s been obtained by Leber from the products of the Staphylococcus aureus; which injected gives rise to marked suppuration. Similarly, Charrin has found an alkaloid—pyocyanin—\\\ blue pus, the Bacillus pyocyaneus being able to form a similar substance in appropriate nutrient media outside the body ; and Sidney Martin has succeeded in isolating a poisonous alkaloid from anthrax blood and even from cultures of the anthrax bacillus in alkali albumen. Within recent years an impetus has been given to the study of these poisonous products by Roux and Yersin, who, along with Sidney Martin and others, have been able to demonstrate that in the diphtheria poison there is no crystallisable alkaloid. Bri’eger, giving - the name of toxines to the poisonous products of bacteria as a whole, (/u, divided them into crystallisable and non-crystallisable or amorphous i toxines, giving to the latter the name of tox-albumens or toxic proteids, as they are found to give certain pr^id reactions and are formed most readily from proteid substances. Even when they can be built up from non-proteid materials, they are formed only through the action of the protoplasm of the bacteria. But just as we have now come to look upon the crystallisable alkaloids as the result of the breaking-down of these proteid toxines, it is maintained by many observers, as first suggested by Loeffler, and then by Roux and Yersin, that the real toxic agent is something even more refined than the pro- teid, which may serve merely to hold or entangle an intensely virulent substance, probably of the nature of an enzyme or organised ferment, which may vary somewhat in character, according as it is locked up in globulines, nucleo-albumins, peptones, albumoses, or like substances. Whatever may be the nature of the poisonous substance locked up in the proteid molecule, there can be little doubt that we have not yet arrived at its exact chemical composition; and for the present we can only extend our knowledge of these poisons' by physiological experiment, though the vast amount of clinical work that is being done appears to promise results of great value to the physiologist, the surgeon, and the physician. It should be pointed out that the amorphous toxic products or proteid poisons may be divided into two classes. The of these classes contains those which may be looked upon as secretions or excretions of bacteria, or the result of the action of bacteria on the surrounding media. These, as a rule, are exceedingly soluble, and, so far as our knowledge at present goes, have a more specific action than the second group—i.e. to them appears to be duo the specific activity of a micro-organism. The second gron,p—o\\Q of very great importance, from the surgical point of view—containsjhose jmisons wliich are more intimately bound \ip in the protoplasm of tlie bodies'of Ijacteria, and are set free only m veiy-nld cultures, or when tlie bodies of the bacteria are treated with a strong alkali, or when they begin to undergo degenerative changes. 1 his group o substances may be formed from non-proteid materials, though tins