1008 dislocations. except in abduction, and traction in tlie flexed position restores the limb or limbs to their proper length. The displacement is at once reproduced, and there is a curious clicking sensation produced by the stunted head of the femur slipping “in and out of its shallow cavity. The head of the bone is difficult to feel, since it is frequently atro- phic and covered by large muscles. When the dislo- cation is unilate- ral, the patient walks with a limp, the hip is promi- nent, lordosis is not so marked. There is slight lateral curvature of the spine in the lumbar region, the convexity being towards the lame side. The trochanter lies well above Ndlaton’s line. The other symptoms will be the same. The lameness will have been noticed when the child began to walk. This negatives traumatic dislocation. Treatment. — The following methods of treatment have been adopted for these condi- tions ; (1) Continuous extension for twelve months or more on a couch, and with an ap- paratus designed for each particular case. This may be combined with tenotomy of con- tracted or resistant muscles; (2) Guerin prac- tises “deep scarifications” of the capsule and cellular tissue round the joint, in order to fix the head of the bone in a fresh position, and then by extension and passive motion attempts to form a new socket by pressure absorption. Of continuous extension and the method of Gudrin little need be said. Such plans of treatment are seldom now adopted, for the ultimate results are poor. Operations for congenital dislocations of the their nerformance to the writings and teachings of Hofla, publish STsoT Karewski in 1889 opened the joint by an anterior inc^mn, and repiaced the head of the bone, in a case of paralytic siibliixation. He claims that this case was the first in which “bloody replace- ment” of a dislocated hip had been successfully accomplished. The principles of Hoffa’s operation may thus be summarised . Fig. 414. — Bilateral Con- genital Dislocation of tlie Hip. (From a case of Mr. Stanley Boyd’s.)