DISEASES OF JOINTS. 1084 Now, if F A P be the angle of flexion of the femur, and the latter be brought into the same plane as its fellow without altering F A P, tliis can only take place by the bending forwards of the spine, at O, and the consequent production of lordosis, as seen in Fig. 446. (See also Fig. 448.) After these changes in position as the disease goes on, we may have a new factor in the actual loss of substance in the bones where they touch. If this take place to any considerable extent while the limb is flexed, the border of the acetabulum above and behind becomes eroded, and the head of the femur at the same time loses part of its tissue. The two flattened surfaces thus produced are then apt to slide one upon the other, being no longer restrained by the cup and ball arrangement of the joint, and the head of the femur slips on to the dorsum ilii, where it may undergo further destructive changes (Fig. 449). The three stages of hip disease. —• There are then ob- viously three difierent positions of the femur in relation to the pelvis. These are sometimes spoken of as three difierent stages of the disease, and at all events correspond to im- portant difierences in the condition of things within the joint. In the first place we have the position of flexion, abduction, and eversion ; secondly, of flexion, adduction, and inversion without real shortening ; and thirdly, of flexion, adduction, and inversion, with erosion of bone, dislocation, and real shortening. These stages are sometimes spoken of as the first, second, and third degrees of hip joint tuberculous disease, and there is a certain amount of convenience in employing the terms. The stages, it will be observed, correspond with—(1) inflammation without softening of the ligaments ; (2) inflammation with softening and partial destruction of the ligaments ; (3) the same with destruc- tion of bone with or without dislocation, which merely depends upon whether the limb has been kept in the extended position during the destructive changes within the joint or has been allowed to flex, adduct, and invert. As long as it is kept straight, the head is more or less retained by the acetabulum, though the latter may be e.xten- sively di&eased. But if it have been allowed to assume the flexed and adducted position, in which the head is normally half out of the socket, it requires but little erosion of the brim of the latter behind and above to allow of the head slipping out on the dorsum ilii (Fig. 449). In this last form in which there is actual loss of substance in the