537 EXTEflNAL llAiMOlillTIAGE. to the nature of the vessel from which the blood escapes; and another very important classification is made, according to the time after an injury at wliicli bleeding occurs, into immary, %nterniediary, and External hsemorrhage.—When blood is seen to flow from the whole surface of a wound, oozing out like juice from a cut orange, and not escaping from definite points, winch can be re- co<^niscd as the mouths of severed vessels, it is usually spoken of°as capillary hccniorrhage. The blood is generally bright red in colour, and really escapes from the arterioles of the part; the bleedin" from a cut finger is a familiar instance of this kind of n ■ • ■ .. 1 ijiood larger whole of as liver. litemorrhage. It is the least important variety, as the loss of is slower,°and is more easily arrested than when vessels of calibre are opened. When blood flows very freely from the surface of a very vascular tissue, it is sometimes spoken par&achymatous hcemorrhage; Inemorrhage from the lung, spleen, kidney, erectile tissue, and very vascular tumours is of this nature. When an artery is divided, bright red blood is propelled from its cardiac end in a forcible pulsatile stream, which rises with every beat of the heart, and falls in the interval. It can be arrested by firm pressure on the cardiac side of the wound. As the loss of blood continues, and the heart’s power becomes less, or the opening in the vessel becomes narrowed, the distance to which the blood is propelled diminishes, and the effects of the ventricular systole become less marked, until the blood merely trickles from the end of the vessel. Sometimes the spontaneous closure of the artery suddenly arrests the flow of blood. The characteristic features of arterial hsemorrhage may be lost; thus, in cases of asphyxia, whether from obstruction to respiration or an ansestlietic, the blood flowing from an artery is dark in colour. When the blood does not escape directly, but flows along a narrow or sinuous channel, as in the case of a punctured wound of a deep artery, it no longer escapes in jets propelled to a distance from the body, but flows evenly and continuously from the surface ; but in such a case the rapid loss of biiglit red blood indicates the source of the hcemorrhage. Where anastomoses are very fi'ee, as in the head, face, and hand, blood will flow and even spurt out from the distal end as well as the proximal, either at once or after a short interval. When a vein is wounded, dark red or purple-black blood wells up in a constant stream, uninfluenced by the cardiac contractions. It flows from the distal end of the divided vessel, and in the case of a large vein the flow is very rapid, and the blood may be projected to a short distance from the wound. The hcemorrhage is arrested by pressure on the distal side of the w'ound; it is often seen to be increased by expiratory efforts and by muscular strain. In the case of varicose veins, or of healthy veins wounded above their valves— e.g. the common femoi’a.1 vein—blood flows from both ends of the divided vessel, and the hcemorrhage may be very profuse.