1063 TUBEB0UL0U8 DISEASE. is frequently so quiet in its progress, that it may have passed from the bone tlu-ough the cartilage and extensively invaded the joint cavity, without having produced much disturbance in the lattei'. In such a case we often find that there are bosses of tuberculous granulations projecting through holes in the cartilage from below (Fig. 434), where the chief centres of disease lie, while the cartilage itself, on the rest of its surface, seems quite unaffected, and the synovial mem- brane almost or entirely healthy. In other instances, when such an invasion of the joint takes place from the bones, the granulation, once having entered the joint, spreads rapidly over its surfaces, and commences at once to attack the cartilages on their free surfaces as Fig. ‘136.—Focus of Tuberculous Disease in the lower Epiphysis of the Femur. (From a Photograph by Prof. Cheyue.) well as the synovial membrane. This is only seen where the infection is more of the acute and rapidly progressive character, indicating virulence in the poison, and great vulnerability of the individual. (iS'ee also page 1047.) The symptoms of tuberculous disease in the ends of bones, taken with the patient’s past history, are usually easily recognisable. In the first place, the age of the individual will guide us somewhat, the affection being met with mostly at the two extremes of life. We have, besides, frequently, though not always, a history of injury, and often of a plain hereditary predisposition to guide us. The subjective evidence as to the local complaint is usually clear: there is stiffness and tenderness of the part, with pain felt chiefly at night, and of a gnawing character. Gentle percussion with the finger over the end of the bone will often show the spot at which tlie process is most mai'ked, or, indeed, discover it when otherwise doubtful. Objectively, we see swelling in and often a trace of oedema over the end of the bone increasing its bulk considerably, and, as the disease advances,