717 LUl’US. unuecessary or injurious in the other. The diagnosis is fully dealt with in the section on Syphilis. {See page 414.) Coiiiplicalions.—Amongst the complications of long-existing lupus may be mentioned the following :— (1) The occasional occurrence of tubercular (caseous) disease of the nearest lymphatic glands. This is, considering the true nature of lupus, surprisingly rare. It may be noted that experiments on rabbits, etc., have proved that if some of the lupus infiltration be inoculated into the aqueous chamber of animals it is followed by the formation of tubercle nodules in the iris, etc. (2) The occurrence of a widespread outbreak of lupus nodules on many parts of the body, quite remote from the primary patch. This curious fact, observed most often in children, can only be explained by infection through the blood. These secondary patches may greatly improve or almost disappear after a time, or they may prove inveterate. (3) Epithelioma is not an infrequent complication, occurring in elderly people, usually in the centre of a very chronic patch of lupus. It is generally of an exuberant or fungating type, and though certain to kill if left alone, may not recur if freely excised. Horny growths are also occasionally met with, and when lupus develops on parts with thick epidermic covering, such as the feet or hands, it has usually a warty appearance and hard consistence, very unlike the soft pinkish nodules common on the face. (4) Atrophy of the digits, etc., when the hand is extensively involved, has already been noted. Here disuse and failure of growth must be assigned an important part in the production of the deformity, which occasionally affects a whole limb. Ti'eatineiit.—The treatment of coimnon lupus consists in most cases in vigorously attacking the diseased patches, either by Volk- manu’s scoop and Paquelin’s cautery, or by excision. Co)istitutional treatment (cod-liver oil, generous diet, etc.) is rarely of any use, and any local measures short of those above indicated are, as a rule, only attended with disappointment. If the lupus be very supei’ficial a trial may be made of strong salicylic acid plaisters {e.g. 20 per cent.), and some cases are too extensive to treat at all; in the majority, how- ever, much improvement follows scraping, cauterisation, or excision. .In the former method a small sharp scoop should be used, and the scraping can hardly be done too energetically; the soft infiltrated areas alone ai’e affected by the scoop, and it is well to use a fine pointed cautery in the excavations made. Pure carbolic acid is a mild caustic of occasional value. Relapses are, unfortunately, frequent, and on this account many surgeons advocate excision, followed by grafting large thin epidermic layers from some healthj' part of the skin (Thiersch’s method). This is sometimes most suc- cessful, but is only suitable for certain selected cases where the disease is very limited. The grafts are cut by means of a razor, ^ applied either immediately after the excision, or later when healthy granulations have developed.