NON-INFEGTIVE ULCER. Ill smaller veins in the skin, and it chiefly occurs in oldish people and those who stand much. As the result of the varicose condition of the veins, the nutrition of the skin becomes imperfect, and eczema- tous inflammation is very apt to occur in these circumstances. The skin is very itchy, the patient scratches it and produces a wound, which then gradually enlarges and takes the form of an ulcer. In certain cases, however, the varicose ulcer commences by the form- ation of a small abscess around an inflamed vein, which bursts through the skin, and then leads to extending ulceration. These are the cases in which bleeding is very apt to occur from the forma- tion of an opening into the vein itself. However produced, these varicose ulcers are usually in the first instance small and superficial ulcers, resembling in their general appearance simple ulcers with oedema of the tissues around, and they often have prominent, soft, or cedematous granulations, not uncommonly surrounded by a patch of eczema. If the patient continue to walk about, the con- gestion of the part is kept up, and the tissues around become thicker and thicker, ultimately leading to the condition of a callous ulcer. 6. Callous ulcer.—Any ulcer of the leg may become a callous ulcer under certain conditions, more especially those which interfere with the venous return. Hence, a callous ulcer is most commonly associated with varicose veins, and is the fur- ther development of the varicose ulcer as the result of the continued interference with the venous return. In such cases, from the dependent position of the limb, oedema of the part takes place, lymph is exuded into the meshes of the cellular tissue and coagulates, and may even become organised, with the result that the parts surrounding the sore become hard and the arterioles are pressed upon, and the nutrition of the part is much interfered with. Hence the skin and tissues around a callous ulcer are much thick- ened and hard, and do not pit on pressure. The base of the ulcer is depressed considerably below the surface of the skin owing to this great thickening of the parts around. The base is also fixed and contraction is impossible. The surface of the sore is pale and has only few and very imperfect granulations, and secretes a small quantity of thin fluid. The margins of the sore are elevated, thickened, and white (Fig. 20). 7. In certain cases there is developed what is known as the lisciiioriiiagic ulcer, which occurs more especially in patients who are suffering from scurvy. In these cases the surface of the sore is Fig. 20.—Callous TTlcer, completely sur- rounding the Leg. The figure shows the thickening of the surrounding tissues, the apparent depth of the sore, and the absence of any attempt at healing. This case was cured by skin grafting.