DISEASES OF JOINTS. 1068 restoring movement in the one case would be highly improper in the other. For instance, the stiffness, the result of disuse and some peri- articular exudation, can usually be soon overcome by regular passive movement and massage, followed by active use. This would be quite inadequate where there was much adhesion between the ends of the bones and the inner surfaces of the capsular structures. Here forced movements of flexion and extension are necessarj% as a rule, under an anassthetic, in order to tear through the recent adhesions and allow the unaltered cartilaginous surfaces to play freely. But such forced flexion and extension would be quite improper where there was actual fibrous adhesion between bones deprived of their natural smooth coverings. In the first place, the bond of union would be very strong, following, as it necessarily would do, upon a very severe destructive inflammation, and to tear it across would require very great force, which would be often sufficient to fracture the bones atrophied already by disuse, rather than break the bond of union. And, again, if the latter did give way, the surfaces left would be but raw fibrous material, unsuited to the movements of a joint and quite unlike the normal cartilage, and ever ready to unite again, as all raw surfaces are when in close apposition, as these would be. I have seen disaster follow where good fibrous anchylosis following upon destructive inflammation of the surfaces of a joint has been taken in hand by a bone-setter and treated in the usual way by very forcible passive movements, with the object of restoring its functions: suppuration has followed with the loss of the joint. And, if the band of union were bony, no fresh joint could be formed, and the line of fracture would be just as likely to lie outside the joint line as in it. NEOPLASMS OF JOINTS. Strictly speaking, the joints are rarely the seat of neoplastic tumours : that is to say, the structures actually forming the articulation are infrequently the starting-point of new growths. When such are found in joints, they have almost invariably only invaded them in a secondary way. Thus we find in some cases that an osteosarcoma starting in the head of a bone may ultimately spread towards its cartilaginous covering, and may stretch and distort the latter, but rarely perforate it. The same may be said of the other forms of sarcoma and chondroma growing from the bones and periosteum, and even indeed of those which start in the soft parts near joints. But growths having their initial lesion in either the encrusting cartilage or the synovial membrane are almost unknown. The hypertrophy of the synovial fringes, either as the result of tuber- culous irritation or the development in them of small masses of fibrous or hyaline cartilage from remnants of the same structures dating from the embryo period, might possibly be held to be an exception to this rule, but the question is whether these ought to be spoken of as neoplasms at all. Be this as it may, they are