885 NECROSIS. It'- in which a cerebral abscess arose. The poison is supposed to enter through carious teeth. It slowly induces a gradually extending necrosis from °he socket to the alveolus, and from the alveolus to the body of the jaw, till nearly the whole of the maxilla may be destroyed by necrosis. JHeTCury may also be the cause of necrosis of the jaw, involving more or less of alveolus from which the gums have retracted by the specific action of the drug. Patliological asiatoiny.—Necrosis varies very much in its extent. It may only involve the cortical part of the bone, and is then called penpheral necrosis. The cancellous tissue alone is rarely affected except in a localised osteo- myelitis, which is generally tuberculous, as in chronic abscess of bone (page 891). This is called central necrosis. The septic osteomyelitis of a stump after amputation involves rather more than the central portion of the shaft. Where the whole thickness of the bone is destroyed, as in some cases of acute infective periostitis and osteomyelitis, it is called total necrosis (Fig. 336). A portion of bone being dead from one of the causes previously described, we have now to con- sider the pi’ocess by which Nature gets rid of the useless part. If inflammation and suppuration be the cause of the necrosis, the same process continues in the adjoining living bone, but falls short of producing sti’augulation of its own blood supply. If not already present, a rarefy- ing osteitis commences converting the denser bone into cancellous. {See page 873.) This is con- tinued, producing absorption of the living bone, till that immediately in contact with the dead is converted into a line of granulation tissue. The dead bone is then loose, and is called a seques- trum. Meanwhile, new bone is produced around by the periosteum over the area of necro.sis and upon the surface of the adjacent living bone. This ensheathing bone is perforated here and there by openings for the escape of pus, which are called cloacce. This invaginating bone is generally absent in peripheral necrosis of superficial bones, such as the inner surface of the tibia or the outer table of the skull. The removal of dead bone in such circumstances is spoken of as “ exfoliation.” Symptoms.—These at first are those of the disease which pro- duced the necrosis. Presumably, therefore, an incision has been made, and pus has been evacuated. The surgeon’s finger introduced through the wound has probably also made sure of the nature of the case. Fig. 3.36.—Total Necrosis of Tibia. (St. TUomas’s Hospital Museiuu, No. 512.)