576 DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. operation upon an associated varix, is due partly to the rest in the raised position this treatment necessitates, partly to the influence of the incision in draining the part, and partly to the asepsis secured. TreatniGnt.—In many cases no trea.tment is required, for no discomfort is caused by the disease. For the majority of other instances, palliative ti'catincnt only is indicated. This consists in supporting the enlarged veins by a carefully-applied bandage or well-fitting elastic stocking, in improving the patient’s general health by overcoming constipation, or by the exhibition of tonics, or digitalis where these are indicated. Prolonged standing and straining efforts should be forbidden; but exei’cise, short of fatigue, should be taken ; patients should not be made chronic invalids on account of varicose veins. The ciiratH^e treatment consists in obliterating or removing the diseased vessels. It is indicated in certain cases only, particularly when the patient is in good health, not past middle life, where the varix is limited in area, and where it is a source of pain to the patient. A vein may be operated on when it leads up from a chronic ulcer or leads up to a venous cyst. Three modes of radical cure are now chiefly practised. (1) Acupressicre.—By passing a hare-lip pin beneath the vein, placing a piece of gum bougie over the vessel, and then throwing a silk thread in a figure-of-8 over the ends of the pin, the walls of the vessel can be compressed, and a certain amount of traumatic phlebitis excited, which may lead to the occlusion of the vessel. One or many pins are employed as may be required: they .should be withdrawn in about a week, unless marked irritation is excited earlier, and they may be left longer if the local irritation is veiy trivial. If in passing the pin the vein is punctured, as shown by the free escape of venous blood, the pin should be withdrawn and passed more deeply. This operation often fails to obliterate the vein. If two pins are introduced close together, and then the vein divided subcutaneously, the result is rendered more certain. This method has long been practised, but it is far inferior to either the ligature or incision, and has nothing to commend it to the surgeon. (2) Ligature.—An incision about three-quarters of an inch long is made down to the vein, and an aneurysm needle is carefully passed round the vessel, threaded, and withdrawn. The ligature may be of aseptic silk or chromic catgut; it may be single or double, the vein then being divided between the two threads. A single suture closes the skin wound. This method is reliable in that it obliterates the vein, but the obliteration is usually very limited in extent. It is to be employed in cases of numerous limited varices, or for the obliteration of a vein leading from an ulcer, or up to a “ venous cyst." It is sometimes modified by excising a short length of vein—say up to an inch—between two ligatures. The numerous branches and communications opening into the affected veins explains the limited obliteration produced by the ligature.