8YFHILIS. 386 both these stages the disease may readily be transferred from the patient to others through any sore which may exist, and perliaps, under exceptional conditions, through inoculation with various nor- mal secretions. The virus undoubtedly may retain its power for a day or two (possibly considerably longer) after it has left the subject from whom it was derived, and a single individual with syphilis may triinsmit it almost indefinitely, though the risk of contagion grows much less after the secondary stage has been passed through. Unfortunately the possibility of inheritance of synhilis may extend for many years after the primary disease in the parent (in some cases five, ten, or even more years) ; though the longer the interval the less severe will the symptoms in the child probably be. Following the secondary comes the intermediate stage. {See page 406.) The tertiary stage includes the appearance of various lesions of the bones, viscera, skin, and nervous system, etc., which are much more persistent and serious than those of the secondary ones. They are generally unsymmetrical, or, at any rate, if occurring on both sides of the body, they do not present exact symmetry. Although remarkably amenable in most cases to treatment by iodides and mercury, the tendency of many of the tertiary lesions is both aggress- ive and destructive. The tertiary stage rarely commences before two years have elapsed from infection, but it cannot be said to have any other time-limit. It must not be supposed that every case of syphilis goes through a regular series of symptoms which can be grouped into the three stages given above. If treated efiiciently and for a long period, there is often a complete exemption from any tertiary symptoms whatever, and if mercury be begun very early (of course, in cases where the diagnosis of primary syphilis can be positively made) the secondary symptoms also may be pre- vented or greatly modified from their usual date of occurrence and intensity. Besides the all-important influence of treatment just mentioned, we must lay stress on the fact that the severity of the disease appears to differ considerably in different individuals, for reasons we can rarely even suggest, but which are referred to “idiosyn- crasy.” That syphilis is nowadays a much milder affection than in the Middle Ages is a very prevalent belief, without the slightest foundation, except in so far that the treatment of it has immensely improved. PRIMARY SYPHILIS. A question of some interest is from what source the contagion ia derived in primary venereal chancres. It may be affirmed without hesitation that as a rule the source of contagion is some moist or secreting secondary lesion, of the nature of a condyloma. Primaiy chancres in womeri,''altHough very contagious whilst they last, do not often persist more than a few weeks, if so long; whereas a condyloma of the vulva may last almost indefinitely if not treated, and its capacity for infection prove almost unlimited. It may also