XXVI. INJURIES AND DISEASES OF LYMPHATICS. By John H. MORGAN, M.A. Oxon., E.R-C-S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Clinical Surgery at, Charing Cross Hospital and the Hospital for Sick Children. Wounds of lymphatic vessels.—Except in very rare in- stances, the lymphatics of the extremities show little of the results of injury, although in any extensive laceration their trunks must of necessity be severed. The lymph that exudes from the divided vessels is not to be distinguished from the blood and serum which are poured out in much larger quantity, the numerous valves pre- vent any considerable reflux, and the divided ends are quickly closed by the collapse of the tissues, aided also by the coagulation of the lymph itself as it issues from the vessels. Lypipliatic fistulm have sometimes developed on the surface as a sequel to the opening or removal of lymphatic glands, and very large quantities of lymph have been discharged, and death, it is said, has followed from exhaustion. The most important lesion of the lymphatic vessels is section or rupture of the thoracic duct, which, though so deeply placed and so well protected throughout its course, has been divided by stabs and gunshot wounds, and lacerated by such severe injuries as a crush of the thorax or fracture of a vertebra. More commonly, a rupture of the duct has occurred as the result of closure of the lumen of the tube by the pressure of a tumour, or by contraction after destructive inflammation. In certain of the reported cases of division of the duct, associated with external wound, a whitish fluid, which was whiter and more opaque after meals, escaped at the external opening. In instances in which there was no surface wound the fluid has been effused into the pleural cavity in such amount as to call for I’epeated tappings. The fluid thus evacuated coagulates on exposure. A diagnosis of the in- jury is impossible without evidence of chylous fluid either escaping from a wound or obtained from the pleural cavity by tapping. In every case death must follow (in a period of weeks rather than of months) from marasmus, consequent upon the discharge. The treat- ment is purely symptomatic. L>yiiipliatic fistula, giving rise to lynipliovrhtEa, or lyni- plioi’rliag:ia, occurs, as has been already stated, sometimes from