INJURIES OF RONES. 830 Fig. 268.—A preparation showing Separa- tion of the lower Epiphysis ofthe Radius, and explaining the Deformity. (Royal College of Surgeons.) Figs. 268, 269 are from Mr. Hutchinson s drawing. o. Pronator quadratus; p, widely separated periosteum ; c, disi)laced epiphysis. fragment, whilst lower down, op- po.site to and below the wrist joint, is a marked prominence formed by the lower end of this fragment and the carpal bones flexed upon it. The side view was aptly likened by Velpeau to that of a silver fork. Seen from the back or front a greater or less con- cavity is noted on the radial side above the wrist, and a correspond- ing prominence of the head of the ulna; besides being carried outwards the hand is generally a little abducted, and the thumb and other tendons are tense and prominent. Eeduction of the deformity may be easy with crepi- tus, or very difficult from impac- tion. Evidence of comminution of the lower fragment, and espe- cially of splitting off of the p o s t e r ior edge of the radial sui-face, may be obtained. Separation of the lowci- epiphysis of the radius is perhaps the commonest accident of this kind. The epiphysis begins to ossify at two years and joins at twenty to twenty-two. The accident may occur at any age up to twenty, and the majority of the patients are over ten. The causes, pa thology, and signs are those of Colies’ frac- ture, except that the lower end of the shaft projects with great sharpness (Eig. 268), forming an angle forwards of 90° to 100°, whereas the corresponding angle in Colles’ fracture is 140° or more (Hutchinson). The accident has not infrequently been compound. Hutchinson foimd ten such among fifty-four; and though they were nearly all recent cases, the results obtained were very bad. In four the shaft was resected to reduce, with a good result in all; in six reduction was effected, more or less imperfectly; tvm died of \>yss- 2gg_T,,e oefonnity in a mia and tetanus, one recovered with a crippled wrist after long suppuration, three were ampu- tated for gangrene. Other complications recent Case of Scimration of the lower Epiphysis Radius. The angle in front should he specially noticed.