SEGONDAIiY SYPHILIS. 393 particularly troublesome to treat, and may require a long incision Ind complete evacuation of the necrosing glands by Volkmanns scoop etc. Otherwise there is no necessity for more than a short cut into the centre of the bubo, the pus being washed out with carbolic solution, or evacuated by moderate pressure; antiseptic fomentations should then be applied and frequently changed. All incisions into inguinal buboes should be made parallel with Poupart s lio’ament. The patient with an inflamed bubo should, of course, rest as much as possible, and it may be at once admitted that, if the recumbent position can be secured, and the source of the contagion— the chancre—be efficiently treated, a considerable number of inflamed hio-uimd buboes will subside without incision. It is impossible here to'^lay down an absolute rule ; the surgeon’s instinct must be the guide in deciding whether the use of the knife is called for or not. SECONDARY SYPHILIS. Phenomena of secondary syphilis,—This stage commences with the appearance of a cutaneous eruption and of superficial lesions on the mucous membrane of the throat, tongue, etc., with general enlargement of the lymphatic glands; and with certain other symptoms which are, as a rule, symmetrical, tend to dis- appear spontaneously after a variable period, and are remarkably amenable to mercurial treatment. From the date of contagion to the occurrence of the earliest secondary lesions, eight to twelve weeks usually elapse ; or from the induration of the primary chancre, about five to eight weeks. If the dates can be well ascertained, it will be found that, although occasionally only six or seven weeks have intervened between infection and the first cutaneous eruption, etc., two months is the usual time. Exceptions to this rule may, however, arise in the following circumstances :— (1) If mercury be administered as soon as the chancre and glands become characteristic of syphilis, the secondaries may be greatly deferred or wholly prevented. (2) If the patient develop an intercurrent illness (such as typhoid fever) soon after infection, the secondary eruption may be postponed for a considerable period. (3) In a few cases, for some unexplained reason, the secondary stage is not entered upon for three or four months, or even more. It is difficult to give a precise time for the duration of the secondary stage, as cases differ so much in the natural sevei’ity of the disease, and stdl more according to the treatment employed. Some authorities assign six months, others a year, and by some two years from the date of infection is given as the limit of time during which secondary symptoms may appear. On the whole, the latter appears to be the most accurate and convenient, with the reservatioji that there is no sharp line of distinction between the secondary and tertiary stages. Skin eruptions.—The most frequent early sy^philitic eruption N*