INJURIES OF RONES. 812 be being under twenty. Separation of the epiphysis does not necessarily open the shoulder joint. Causes : Traction on the arm during labour, sudden pulls in and out to save children from falling, falls on the elbow or hand, and direct violence to the shoulder. Signs.—There may be no displacement— especially in the young—the periosteum being untorn; unless slight mobility or crepitus can be detected, there will be no positive sign of the injury. In a large proportion of the cases the shaft is displaced more or less inwards, and upwards if the inward displacement be complete. Then the roundness of the shoulder is preserved, but the deltoid is tense, and the elbow points out or back ; the upper end of the shaft may form a visible swelling below the coracoid pro- cess—where the fingers will feel it, not round and smooth like the head, nor so sharp and irregular as in a fracture. The fingers cannot pressed beneath the acromion, the head felt in the socket, but they do sink in through the deltoid in. or so below the acromion opposite the line of fracture. The head does not move with the shaft, and crepitus is obtained only when the broken surfaces are brought into contact. Sometimes the broken surface of the epiphysis looks forwards and outwards, being probably driven into this position, or at least fixed in it by the shaft locked against its inner margin. _ Sometimes the shaft is displaced upwards in front of or outside the epiphysis—no doubt by the initial violence. Grave complications seem to have been fre- quent. Several cases have been compound; the great vessels have been torn or compressed, and gangrene has resulted in at least two cases , the brachial plexus has been injured, and even permanent paralysis has resulted; in a few cases marked arrest of development has been noted, but the arm has been strong. Suppura- tion has been rare, but bony ankylosis has occurred in three simple cases (J. Hutchinson, junr.). In two early cases a false swelling is usually rapid, early examination and settincr under ansesthesia ■ are necessary if there be any ^^oubt or difficulty; for it is most desirable to efiect an accurate diagnosis and reSacement with all possible gentleness. Traction on the limb down- wards and outwards aided by pressure on the epiphysis is geiiei y Fig. 248.—A Humei-us repaired after a Frac- ture of its surgical Neck, downwards and backwards from .lust below the lesser tube- rosity to 3 ins. below posteriorly. The angle between the head and shaft is much dimin- ished, as also is the measm'emeiit from the centre of the head to the great tuberosity. The shaft is drawn slightly in. The whole bone is atrophied.