TJ/EMOmnAGE. 517 Pig. 142. — A, An Arterj^ closed by PorcipressuTrf. 1, Normal artery; 2, crushed ex- tremity, B, The same artery laid open—1, Normal artery; 2, criishcdand serrated outer coat; 3. inner coats separated and curled up. torsion and ligature of divided vessels. Catcli forceps witli strong bluntly-serrated ends are used, and with them the bleeding vessel is seized as cleanly as possible (Fig. 141). The immediate efiect is tlie crushing of the part grasped, and tlie brittle inner coats of an artery break across and curl up inside it. ^ n The crushed part foi-ms a flat band, closing over tlie end of the vessel and the blood clots witliin it, and becomes adherent to the curled- up inner coats (Fig. 142). Arteries up to the size of the ranine are easily sealed by these forceps if two precautions are taken, the forceps must be left on for some few minutes, to allow the blood in the artery to coagulate and the clot to adhere, and they must be removed gently so as not to open out the cruslied end of the vessel and displace the internal clot. Arteries of any size can be closed by the forceps if they are allowed to remain on for a few hours thus ; if, in a case of nephrectomy, the renal artery cannot be tied, it should be seized in a large pressure-forceps, and held for twelve to twenty-four hours. In vaginal hysterectomy the same plan is followed if the uterine artery cannot be secured in a ligature. Pressure-forceps are used in several ways. Small bleeding arteries are seized as divided, and held until the completion of the operation, when, if the forceps are removed carefully, the hsemorrhage is found arrested. Larger arteries are seized temporarily until twisted or tied. Bands of vascular tissue are clamped in the forceps before division. Bleeding veins are occluded by these forceps, as well as anteries. In fact any vessel that can be seized in a pressure- forceps can be closed by it if the forceps is left on long enough to secure an internal clot so firmly adherent to the inner coat that it can resist the pressure of the blood. 7. Ciaiups and 6craseiir8 may be spoken of together, as their action is similar. A clamp causes a division of the two inner coats of a vessel, on the ends of which an internal clot forms, a.s in an artery divided by contusion. If the action of the clamp is continued and intensified, as in hysterectomy and similar operations, the outer coat of the vessels and the other tissues are partly torn and partly ulcerated through. As a hremostatic agent, a clamp need only be applied firmly enough to occlude the vessels, and long enough to cause a firmly adlierent internal coagulum. Fci'aseurs tear and crush their way through vessels, dividing first the inner coats, and then drawing out and overstretching the outer coat until it yields. If this is done quickly, the vessels bleed freely. 143. — An Artery which has heen crushed with Forceps in two places, h Compressed outer coat; 2, two inner couts, rolled up, f)arti;illy occluding umcn. Below, the vessel is laid open; 3, outer coat; 4. inner and middle coats.