VABIOOSE ANEURYSM. 637 aueun'SBi may develop spontaneously by an ordinary idiopathic aneurysm first compressing and then opening into a neighbouring vein. This has been known to occur in the thorax, abdomen, and groin. (See Fig. ISk) PatUology—The only difference between this condition and a circumscribed traumatic aneurysm arises from the fact that the sac has an additional opening or openings into it from a vein or veins. The relative position of the arterial and v enous openings into the sac varies much. A case is recorded in which two_ veins communi- cated with the sac of an aneurysm, so that on laying it open four venous openings were detected. A still more interesting case is one in which the deep wound in a transfixed vein cohered with that in an artery; but the superficial wound in the vein did not heal up, and the blood escaping from it formed an aneurysmal tumour. The blood flowed from the artery into the vein, and then on mto the sac of the aneurysm. The veins of the part undergo the same changes as are seen in aneurysmal varix. Traumatic varicose aneurysms are usually of small size, and their sacs may contain very little, if any, fibrin, owing to the direct passage of blood through them. The sac may steadily enlarge and rupture externally or subcutaneously. Spontaneous cure is very rare. Occasionally clot forms in the aneurysm, so as to shut ofi" the communication with the vein, and the case is reduced then to one of simple traumatic aneurysm. In internal aneurysms—as of the aorta —the communication with a vein or the pulmonary artery may greatly add to the gravity of the case ; but in external aneurysm the communication with a vein gives rise to very characteristic symptoms, but does not influence the course of the disease to any important extent. Signs and diagnosis.—The signs of the communication be- tween artery and vein are the same as in aneurysmal varix—distension and pulsation of the veins, with a very intense bruit and thrill con- ducted for some distance along the dilated veins. In addition, there are the signs of an aneurysm. Thus it is sometimes possible to dis- tinguish two tumours, or two parts of one tumour—one, the dilated vein, soft and compressible, and the other, the aneurysm, firmer. The diagnosis is rendered clearer if, when the artery above is compressed, the dilated vein collapses, leaving the aneurysm plainly felt as a firm tumour. In addition to the continuous loud bruit, a soft-blowing systolic aneurysmal bruit can sometimes be distin- guished ; and it may be discovered, on careful examination, that pressure on a certain spot stops the loud rasping bruit and the thrill, without arresting the pulsation in the aneurysm or the true aneu- rysmal bruit. All these special signs point to the existence of an aneurysm, m addition to the arterio-venous communication. In other cases the existence of an aneurysm is known, and the fact that it has formed a communication with a vein is shown by the marked venous dilatation, not merely below the tumour—which might be caused by pressure only—but over and above it, by the very marked