980 DISLOCATIONS. (3) Laceration of the skin, with erysipelatous inflainmatiom (4) Injury of the nerves. (5) Fractures of the shaft of the humerus, or of the ribs. (6) In old and feeble persons, death from shock, or cerebral symptoms, suggestive of thrombosis or embolism. Lastly, after prolonged and exhaustive efforts, the surgeon may quite fail in his endeavour to restore the head of the bone to its place, though he has exposed his patient to one or mdre of the above dangers, and this, in my experience, is the common result of attempts to reduce old dislocations of the shoulder. The resources of modern aseptic surgery have rendered open arthro- tomy very advantageous in some of these cases. The short muscles and all resistant structures are freely divided, the vessels and nerves peeled from the capsule with a rugine, and the head of the bone restored to its place. The results of this proceeding have been ex- cellent. The operation may be most difficult, and it is astonishing how the head of the humerus remains fixed, even when the liga- ments and short muscles are extensively divided. No surgeon should lightly undertake it. Excision of the head of the bone is easier, attended with less operative interference, and gives admir- able results. Great care should be taken not to divide the cir- cumfiex artery too close to the main trunk, or it may be impossible to arrest the bleeding without ligature of the axiUary vessel or amputation. The special indication for open operations on old dis- locations of the shoulder is nerve pressure from the head ot the bone, with atrophy and weakness of the limb. Here great care must be exercised to discriminate between the symptoms of nerve pressure and nerve rupture. Recurrent dislocations of the humerus.-It sometimes happens, especially after the reduction of dislocations of old stand- ino- that the displacement persistently recurs on the least muscular exertion, so that the patient’s life becomes a miserable one The ex- . planation of these cases is, that there remains a large unhealed rent ui the capsule, or great laxity of it, or that a portion of the edge o the glenoid cavity is broken away, or a fracture of the neck of the scapula may compHcate the dislocation. Joesoel, of Strasburg, affirm that by dissection he has been able to establish the fact that these dislocations are due to permanent separation of the tendons from the tuberosities. In these cases, a mechanician may adopt a smtable apparatus to support the shoulder. Should this fail, of treatment are advised, many of which are fanciful and some Dositivelv harmful. These call for no mention here. ^ Excisffin has been performed by Volkmann and others, and a remarkably successful case has been related by Southam. Tins operation is likely to give definite and permanent good results and I^do not hesitate to advise it in obstinate cases of recuuent ‘^''^Comp''ound dislocations of the accidents, and the great violence that produces them would seldom