153 PATHOLOGY OF SHOCK. the heart by the sudden application of cold to the chest or head, by the use of pungent inhalations, or by the employment of the interrupted current over the heart. Shock, on the other hand, is a condition of great depression of the vital activity. It generally occurs after some severe injuiy, more especially after injury of the abdominal organs, or after the division of large nerves. Shock may occur immediately, or almost immediately, after the injuiy, or it may come on insidiously, not manifesting itself even for an hour or two, as sometimes happens after railway injuries. The patient who is suffering from shock is usually found lying in a state of complete muscular relaxation, or if he make any movements, they are very irregular and feeble. The face is pale and drawn, the pupils are dilated, there is sweating about the head, the reflexes are very slight, there is diminished sensibility, but not absolute unconsciousness. The patient can answer questions when spoken to, but if not disturbed will gene- rally lie in a semi-conscious condition. The respirations are feeble, irregular, and sighing. The pulse is small, frequent, and dicrotic. At first the pulse-rate is generally slowed, and increased frequency of the heart-beat is regarded by some as a sign of the commencement of reaction. The skin is cold; the temperature sub-normal. The patient does not complain of any pain, and he very often dies in a state of stupor. In other cases, as I have just mentioned, shock comes on more insidiously, as after a railway accident, where the patient may be able to move about in the first instance, and then gradually passes into a condition somewhat similar to that which has been described. This condition of shock generally passes off (where recovery is going to take place) in from two to twenty hours, and then symptoms of reaction set in, the pulse becomes quicker and stronger, the temperature rises, and may reach even two or three degrees above normal, but unless some complication arises it soon falls again. The marked reactionary symptoms formerly described were essentially septic conditions quite independent of the pre^dous shock, and did not occur where the wounds remained aseptic. The condition formerly spoken of as “prostration with excitement” was probably also a septic condition; at any rate, though I have seen many cases of shock, I have never come across this state, and tliis is also the experience of other surgeons who operate strictly aseptically. Pathology of shock.—Numerous theories have been ad- vanced to explain the phenomena of shock, but none of them can be regarded as in any way certain or completely explanatory. One which has been, and is still much in favour, is that shock is due to a paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves, more especially of the splanchnic nerves, resulting in great dilatation of the smaller vessels, especially in the abdomen, which become so distended with blood that but little is left to circulate elsewhere. This view prac- tically implies that the immediate cause of the condition is sudden loss of blood (for the blood is as much lost by its accumulation