TYOGENIG BAGTERIA. 25 It is here unnecessary to enter into the various suggestions made as to the cause of this bactericidal power of serum, but it has lately been put forward by Kossell and Vaughan (quoted by Welch) that the defensive proteids, which are exceedingly unstable, really owe their characteristic action to the presence of nuclein or nuclenic acid, so that we must ultimately look upon all these altered states of the serum as depending upon changes which take place in the tissue cells and leucocytes. One of the chief duties of the surgeon, therefore, is to keep the tissue cells and leucocytes so well nourished by judicious feeding, good hygiene, the prevention of the loss of blood, and the removal of all dead matter from the body, that they may be as little embarrassed, and may carry on their functions as perfectly, as possible. SPECIAL BACTERIA. Pyogenic bacteria.— It has already been mentioned that cultures of various species of bacteria, previously sterilised by heat, on being introduced in considerable quantities into animal tissues, have the power of setting up a localised suppuration, just as certain products of these same micro-organisms (sepsin, cadaverin, etc.) appear to exert a definite chemical action on the tissues, by which they are deprived of their vitality, acting in exactly the same fashion as nitrate of silver, strong ammonia, oil of turpentine, and similar substances. In most cases, however, the products themselves, apart from the proteids contained in the bodies of these bacteria—i.e. when filtered—have little or no power of setting up suppuration. When, however-, the bodies of the dead bacteria that are kept back by the filter, are injected subcutaneously, suppuration follows. This occurs not only when the ordinary pus cocci are used, but also when the Pneumococcus, anthrax bacillus, tubercle bacillus. Bacillus pro- digiosns. Bacillus coli communis. Bacillus acidi lactici, and other similar organisms are injected. It is now recognised, however, that the most frequent causes of suppuration are a small group of micro- cocci, of which it is necessary to describe only a few typical examples. ]. Staphylococcus pyog^enes aureus.—The first of this group—the Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus (Plate II. Fig. 10; see also hig. 29)—was first obsei’ved by Ogston in 1881, in the pus obtained from acute abscesses, and a couple of years later was again found and described by Becker in the pus from cases of acute osteomyelitis. This organism is the most common of those found in abscesses as a facultative parasite, but it may be met with everywhere where man and animals congregate, especially on the skin and the mucous mem- branes of the upper reaches of the alimentai-y and respiratory tracts. It is about -7/i to -9/i in diameter, and usually occurs in small irregular groups, in short chains of three or four links, or in tetrads. It stains readily by Gram’s method. {See page 61.) It grows on most media, and is a facultative anaerobe, since though it flourishes most luxuriantly and produces its colour .only