ELBOW JOINT DISEASE. 1125 fibrous or actually bony. ((Seepage 1067.) Eor, although the free play of the scapula on the ribs compensates to some extent for tlie loss of movement in the joint, the latter, if completely spoiled, leads to a very crippling condition. When we remember that the shoulder joint is designed for freer movement in all dh’ections than any other articulation in the body, this is easily understood. In all cases the joint is fixed in the position of greatest rest, i.e. with the arm hang- ing straight by the side. In this position, if rigid, the limb is very helpless. Where this limitation of movement is due simply to slight adhe- sions of the surfaces and thickenings in the capsular structures, the condition may often be much improved by massage, and, if this fails, by forcible passive movement under an anaesthetic. There is always, however, great difficulty in carrying out the latter, owing to the difficulty of fixing the scapula; and if the adhesions are firm, suffi- cient force cannot be applied to tear them. And even if they were torn, very little good would result; for the raw surfaces would be almost sure to re-unite, the painful condition of the shoulder pre- venting the patient from active movement to any adequate extent. A sufferer after such treatment is apt to suppose that he is exert- ing the joint, when he is really only moving the scapula with the humerus, and consequently the advantages of the forcible manipula- tion under an anaesthetic are soon lost. In such cases where the patient is very seriously crippled by the fixation of the joint, there is nothing left but a formal excision of the head of the humerus. This operation, if carefully carried out, whether for strong fibrous anchylosis, or for synostosis, is very successful. The new bond of union, which develops between the humerus and the scapula, admits of free motion in all directions, and is nevertheless strong and reliable. The operation itself calls for no detailed description in this place. AFFECTIONS OF THE ELBOW. This joint is very subject to all the varieties of disease we have been considering in connection with the other articulations. All forms of synovitis are met with here, from the simple to the tuber- culous, and the affections of the bones are no less frequent. Simple synovitis of the elbow.—This, the result of injury, strain, or exposure, manifests itself in the first place by a sense of stiffness in the joint, soon followed by pain on movement. Swelling soon supervenes upon this, being most marked at either side of the olecranon behind where fluctuation will be felt if there is much effusion. The joint, under these conditions, will be held in the attitude of greatest ease—namely, semi-flexed and semi-pronated—and any attempt to alter its position will cause considerable pain. The changes in the synovial membrane in this affection have been already considered (see page 1033), and it remains to deal with the treatment here.