7 TOXINES. other volatile substances, some of which have already been fairly tho- roughly worked out, whilst much still remains to be done at others. Certain organisms, especially those which may be grown anaero- bically, have the power of froducing gas, which, collecting around the organisms in the deeper layers of the nutrient media, appears as small bubbles. This formation of gas is sometimes a point of considerable diagnostic value, as, for example, in distinguishing certain organisms which, though morphologically resembling the tetanus bacillus, have the power of developing gas, a function which does not belong to the tetanus bacillus, so that if gas bubbles are formed in any culture in which the tetanus bacillus is present, it is not a pure culture of that organism. Certain organisms have also the power of pro- ducing a phosphorescent glow, especially when they are supplied with special food materials, the energy which they develop from this food material assuming the form of light. 5. Production of toxines.—From the pomt of view of the pathologist, however, the most im- portant products of these organisms ai’e what may be spoken of as toxines and toxic albumoses, pep- tones, alkaloidal bases, and poisonous or poison- forming acids. At the same time the whole of the ordinary decomposition products, beginning with the ptomaines, leucine, tyrosine, and the aromatic and organic acids, and ending with ammonia, nitrites, nitrates, and ultimately carbon dioxide, hydrogen and nitrogen, are formed. Many micro-organisms have the power of foiming hydrolytic ferments, amongst which may be mentioned those having the properties of diastase, of invertine, pepsine, tripsine, by which the ordinary liquefaction of gelatine is brought about, and of rennet. We thus see that the vital manifestations of these oi’ganisms are ex- ceedingly complex, and that each organism or group of organisms requires to be separately studied in order that its morphology and functions may be acciu'ately defined. 6. Conditions of bactorial lifo.—In order that bacteria may grow and multiply and give rise to the products above mentioned, it is necessary that they should have suitable food, some of them re- quii’ing proteid or albuminous substances for their nutrition, others living on carbohydrates. They all require water, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, hydrogen, and certain inorganic salts, the most important of which appear to be those of lime and potassium. Tlvey diSer very greatly as regards their power of obtaining the materials tliey require from these various substances: they are unlike planls in BO far as they are unable to assimilate carbon dioxide. Some are able to obtain their carbon and oxygen from starch and sugars. Fig. 2.—Cultiva- tion of Bacillus of Antlu-ax.