DISLOCATIONS. 1010 results claimed by the originator. An operation—like that of Lorenz—can only be carried out between the ages of four and seven years. The immediate results may be encouraging, but the ultimate results do not appear to have been at all satisfaetory. Possibly improved methods of operating may yet succeed in ameliorating the crippled condition of these patients. At the present time most English surgeons are content to adopt some method of artificial support. 'Perhaps one of the most efficient forms of apparatus for con- genital dislocation of the hip was devised by the late Marcus Beck. It consists essentially of a padded metallic belt, which encircles the body between the trochanter and crest of the ilium, and is con- tinuous with a moulded leather cap, which encloses the upper part of the femur. From this a light steel rod passes up into the axilla, and so to some extent the weight of the body is taken off the limb. Dislocation of the patella, causa- tion and classification. — Disloca^ tion of the patella may be caused by muscular action when the limb is in the extended position. Owing to the oblique direction of the femur, there is a natural tendency for the quadriceps to pull the patella outwards. This is counteracted by the greater prominence of the external condyle, and, perhaps, also by the fibres of the vastus internus, which descend lower than the fibres of the vastus ex- ternus. The accident is predisposed to by lax ligaments, and is sometimes con- genital. In congenital displacements, the vastus internus is frequently wasted and atrophic, and the ex- ternal condyle of tlie femur deficient. The vastus externus conse- quently draws the patella outwards (Fig. 415). The patella itself is, in these cases, small and atrophic, and developmental error is obvious. Genu valgum is said by many authors to predispose to this accident. Direct blows on the inner edge of the patella may also dislocate it outwards. i The external displacement is far the more common, the internal very rare. Occasionally the patella is found displaced vertically, with its inner edge turned directly forwards. The upward and downward displacements, from rupture of the ligamentum patellai or quadriceps extensor, should hardly be regarded as dislocations Many of the dislocations are incomplete, but occasionally the bone is completely thrown to the side of the femur. In the mcomplete d s- placemente the capsule of the knee may remain intact, in the complete it is usually lacerated. Svniirtoms.—The knee is fixed in semi-flexion, it has an appea - ance of Widening, sometimes it is extended. The quadriceiis staiic Fig. 415.—Congenital Dislocation of the Patella outwards.