SUBACUTE ABSCESS. instances brought the process to a standstill—even in very grave conditions of the patient—by free treatment of this kind. Where the condition is a very serious one, and where there is con- siderable destruction of the tissue, I think it is well, after having spono-ed the exposed parts with undiluted carbolic acid, to pack them with“ int which has been squeezed out of the pure acid. Where one does not wish to increase the destruction of the tissue which naturally follows this method, or where the result of the packing is the cessa- tion of the process, the best subsequent treatment is, I think, to stuff the wound and all its recesses with cyanide gauze sprinkled with iodoform. After a few days the whole surface will be covered with granulations, and then the ordinaiy applications suitable for healing granulating wounds, and which will be referred to in discussing the treatment of wounds, should be substituted (Art. X.). In some cases great benefit is derived from continuous irrigation after free incision or from the use of a continuous water bath, the fluid in both instances containing some antiseptic (such as permanganate of potash, or sanitas), which does not coagulate albumen. When the inflammatory symptoms have come to an end, one must bear in mind the great risk in the hand of adhesions between the muscles or tendons, and the consequent chance of permanent disablement of the hand j and therefore, as soon as possible, passive and active motion of the fingers and hand should be freely carried out. It generally suffices if the passive motions be carried out once or twice a day in the first instance, the patient being encouraged to move the fingers at any time. As soon as the wound has healed, the part should be thoroughly massaged, and the muscles kneaded, with the view of breaking up and getting rid of the inflammatory effusion. SUBACUTE ABSCESS. Apart from acute abscesses, we also speak of subacute and chronic abscesses. By subacute abscesses we mean those which are slower in their course than those which I have already described, and in which the local and constitutional symptoms are correspondingly milder. As a rule, the course of a subacute abscess will be from two to three weeks, instead of less than half that time, as is the case in acute abscess. These subacute abscesses are for the most part due also to the pyogenic organisms, but usually to the rai'er forms, which are less virulent. The treatment of these abscesses is essentially the same as that of the more typical acute abscesses. The so-called chronic abscess, however, differs absolutely from the acute abscess and subacute abscess both in its pathology and in its treatment, and with very few exceptions, if any, it is a tubercular affection. CHRONIO ABSCESS. By a chronic abscess we mean an abscess wliich increases in size very slowly, and which produces little or no local or constitutional