OOOAINE. 291 f 90 ner cent being employed. The drug is also very useful •“ eUevin- Sie pain of dental periostitis, a small qnaked in a 10 per cent, solution bemg applied^ to the gums nt tn the offendin" root. Cocaine is far inferior to nitrous Lidras an aniesthetic for tooth extraction. Should local be pre- ferred to general amesthesia in any particular case, two or three injections, Representing in all not more than gr. \ of cocaine, should be made adjacent to the roots of the tooth (Hern). Other surgical operatiom.—^h& pain occasioned by the repeated introduction of the hypodermic syringe, the uncertainty of the pro- cess in many cases, the possibility of struggling, emotional disturb- ances, or toxic symptoms arising, and the repugnance which mos patients feel to retaining consciousness during surgical operations have combined to retard the advance of cocaine into the domam ot treneral surgery. But there may be exceptional circumstances in which cocaine analgesia is called for. A solution of 2 per cen . (Reclus) wUl be found to suffice for most cases. The part to be operated upon, as well as the hypodermic syringe, should be scriipu- lously clean, and rendered aseptic by the customary methods, ihe patient should be recumbent, and his face covered with a ligh Lndkerchief. When evidences of feeble circulation or great nervous- ness are present, a small quantity of brandy or sal volatile may be o-iven. Whenever practicable, the part to be operated upon should be rendered bloodless, as suggested by Corning, by bandagii^ and the application of an elastic cord or tape. This has the effect ot increasing the local and lessening the general action of the cocaine, and when the cord or tape is removed any remaining cocaine is carried off by the haemorrhage which occurs. The punctures of the hypodermic needle may be rendered painless, if desired, by the use of ice, ether spray, or chloride of ethyl. Care should be taken to avoid blood-vessels when injecting. Reclus places the maximum of cocaine for each operation at from gr. to gr. ij. He uses a (Pravaz’s) hypodermic syringe with a long fine needle, and advises that the solution should be injected whilst the syringe is being with- drawn, so as to leave long anaesthetic tracks subjacent to the proposed skin incisions. When the skin has been anaesthetised, the deeper tissues must be injected or subsequently cocainised during the operation. Dr. Coppinger, of the Haslar Hospital, who has used cocaine in- jections extensively, considers the following conditions to be essential: —(1) The punctures should be made through healthy non-inflamed skin or mucous membrane ; (2) The solution should be injected into the cellular tissue, the point of the needle being felt to move freely before the piston is pressed ; (3) There should be an interval of ten minutes before the operation is commenced. Dr. Krozius, in an interesting paper, urges that in some cases it is possible, by in- jecting the cocaine solution into the neighbourhood of a nerve trunk along a line at right angles to the axis of the limb, to produce “ peripheral analgesia,” not only of the skin, but of other structures