growth of aneurysm. 603 . .“.s as'is-s rrj; occuired. oneurysm. The patient recovers, but by a process ?-r fS: : p'ound/ the ends of the snbCevian artery securely sealed were visible in the deep wound left. Prowth Of the aneurysm.-The continuous growth of the aneurysm may be fatal from its pressure-effects or from syncope, as niten seen in thoracic aneorysor. If not, it ends usually m may rupture externally though‘he skin or internally into a mucous, serous, or synovial cavity, oi into the cellular tissue around the sac. Rupture through the skin is finally effected by the separation of a slough of corium, and the lnemorrha<^e is at once fatal, unless controlled by surgical means, which in these cases are rarely applicable. Rupture into ^ mucous canal occurs in the form of a small ulcer, which often becomes temporarily plugged with a clot; but as the ulcer enlarges this clot is displaced,^and further escape of blood occurs In s^ch cases therefore, the hsemorrhage is generally repeated-slight at hist, each time more profuse, until a fatal loss occurs. The blood ma.y be poured into the trachea or a bronchus, causing haemoptysis; or into the gullet or stomach, causing haematemesis; or into the bowel, causing melaena. The rupture into a serous cavity is by a slit or stellate opening, permitting a profuse, and generally at once fatal, liEemorrhage— liaemopericardium, hemothorax, hemoperitoneum or intracranial hemorrhage. Rupture into a joint is of a similar nature, but the hemorrhage is less serious, owing to the resistance of the capsule. When the sac ruptures subcutaneously, one of two results may follow. The blood may diffuse itself widely along the planes of cellular tissue of the part, separating and compressing structures, arresting cir- culation, and eventually causing gangrene, if the patient does not su^ cumb from the acute anaemia. Such a case is well called a “ ruptured aneurysm,” and is similar in its nature and effects to a “ru|)tured artery.” Rut the rupture of the sac may be a small one, permitting what may be called a leaking of the blood into the tissues. This blood may coagulate, and a new spurious sac be formed around it, partly by the fasciie of the part, partly by the products of the inOammation the extravasation has excited. Such a spurious sac is not an effective barrier to the escape of more blood, and usually a further rupture soon ensues. These cases have been grouped together and all called “ diffused aneurysm®,” but the varying extent of the rupture of the sac and the variation in the subsequent amount and