FILAUIA SANGUINIS EOMINIS. 333 followed by h3T>ertrophy of the skin and subcutaneous tissue, and the development of elephantiasis of the scrotum or lower extremities (Elephantiasis Arabum, see Art. XXVI.). _ Symptoms.—The presence of the adult parasite may be evi- denced by attacks of lymyphangitis, leaving behind them definite indurated spots and the presence of embryonic filariie in the blood. Chyluria may be intermittent and yet persist for many years. The urine most characteristic after a full meal—is milky-white, when passed ; setting into a mass, which again liquefies, a creamy material collecting on the surface and a deposit more or less pink, from the admixture of blood, falling to the bottom of the vessel. Similar coagulation occasionally takes place within the bladder, giving rise to painful and difficult micturition. Examination of the urine reveals fat globules in an extremely fine state of division, granular matter, leucocytes, often red blood discs, and filarise. Albumen may be present in considerable quantity. The filarise should be sought either in the clots floating beneath the creamy layer which collects on the surface of the urine after it has stood for some hours, or in the deposit at the bottom of the vessel. It is almost useless to attempt to find filarise in a drop of newly passed urine (Manson). Diagnosis.—The presence of embryos in the blood or in chylous secretions is the crucial test of the filarial origin of cases of lym- phangitis, lymphangiectasis, elephantiasis, chylous ascites, chylocele, or chyluria; but it must be borne in mind that all these conditions may be met with independent of the parasite, and that in every case due regard must be paid to the diurnal variation in the pre- sence of filarial embryos in the cutaneous blood-vessels, and its occasional complete intermittence. According to Manson also, filarias may still be discovered in lymph obtained from parts affected by elephantiasis, when none are to be found in the blood stream, their entrance into the general circulation being prevented by complete obstruction of the lymph stream. Prognosis.—Filarial disease may persist for many years and patients usually die from other causes. Treatment.—No method of destroying the adult parasite by internal treatment is known; but a promising result has been obtained b}' Maitland by excising an indurated mass in the coux'se of the lymphatics containing the parasite. Although this operation did not prove radical, yet, as Maitland remarks, it shows that it is possible in some cases to localise the position of the parasites and to remove them. Beyond this, however, it points strongly to the common multiple existence of the worms, an unfavourable element to the success of the treatment. A number of cases of lymplian- giectasis have also been treated by excision with no untoward local results, but up to the present no cases of radical cure have been recorded. The treatment of elephantiasis is referred to in Article XXVI. Prophylaxis naturally consists in the thorough boiling and filtering of water used for cuhnary or drinking purposes.