SYPEILITIO SYNOVITIS. 1045 tubercle, tliough there is only a sluggish so-called passive hyjDeraeinia present. Thus it may remain for an indefinite time if not relieved by treat- ment, or may undergo further secondary changes. The latter are quite similar to those seen in tubercular granulation. It may resolve or may undergo fibroid organisation, or may liquefy, caseate, or cretify. Thus, as we shall see presently, there is, in both syphilis and tubercle, either (1) a return to a healthy state, with or without permanent thickening; or (2) liquefaction, larger or smaller collec- tions of pulpy broken-down material forming, and, perliaps, opening through the skin or into the joint; or (3) the granulation material may caseate, owing to fatty degeneration ; or (4) it may dry up and cretify. Sometimes this deposit is associated with effusion into the joint, but this is not common. These tertiary syphilitic deposits in and about joints have long been recogni.sed clinically, but Lanceraux was one of the first to demonstrate them in the post-mortem room. In his interesting description the clearest proof is given that the tertiary gummata or inflammatory deposits in the articular structures present the characters and undergo the same changes as in the other parts of the body. Symptoms.—The sicbjective symptoms of this late syphilitic affection of the synovial membrane are not usually well marked in the early stages of the affection. The change may have advanced far before much pain, weakness, or stiffness are complained of; and a patient will often continue to use the part when these factors are present, which, were the disease tuberculous, would indicate very extensive and disabling disorganisation, and be accompanied by con- siderable suffering and loss of power. The objective symqjtoms are : swelling generally, far less uniform than in the tuberculous affection, and possibly localised at one or two clearly defined spots. These will have a peculiarly elastic or doughy feel to the touch, according to the condition of the focus. If con- sisting of fresh granulation tissue it will be elastic; if of softening gumma, doughy; if liquefied, of course, fluctuating. The tempera- ture of the part is not raised appreciably, and the surface of the joint shows no signs of congestion, unless a gummatous deposit be breaking down on its way to the surface. Then the skin will gradually assume a brownish or more or less purple colour, which contrasts markedly with the pale earthy tint so frequently seen in late syi)hilis. When other parts of the body exhibit unmistakable evidence of syphfiitic disease—such as old circular scai's, “ pegged teeth,” or in- terstitial keratitis—there can be but little difficulty in the diagnosis. Of the treatment of this affection it may be fairly said that it is much more satisfactory, as a rule, than is that for tuberculous synovitis, unless it has been neglected and allowed to advance to an extreme degree of cachexia before being taken in hand. In youno-er individuals suffering chiefly from the congenital variety, our cluef reliance will be upon mercury given in small doses for extended periods. But in addition it must be remembered that, as want of