407 tertiary syphilis. at the margin, and capable of persisting indefinitely in this condition. Ti howevei'a gumma iL situated close to a cutaneous or mucous su.;face, wherritL exposed to injury and to the access of micro-organisms, it will probably (unless treated) undergo softening or suppuiation. Throverlying skin or mucous membrane which adheres to the gumma be^comes congested and inflamed, breaks a one or more points, and a yellowish-white slough is exposed. Unlike the con- tents of an ordinary abscess, the gummatous centre is only eliminated, and the sodden wash-leather-like mass adheient to the surrounding tissues, and sometimes deeply undermining the surface, may be weeks or months before it wholly comes away. Subsequent granulation and cicatrisation lead often to puckering of the surface, and in the liver (where gummata are very frequent) deep scars in the capsule may clearly point to their previous existence and com- plete absorption. In the deep viscera—i.e. heart, liver spleen, etc. it is rare for a gumma to break down or to form anything resem- bling an abscess. Microscopically, the cells of a gumma are often hardly to be recognised individually towards the centre, as they stain very imperfectly ; towards the margin they become more dis- tinct, and the process of organisation into a low form of connective tissue may be seen; a few giant-cells may occasionally be observed. Apart from the formation of gummata, tertiary syphilis often leads to sclerosis of some part of an organ. Of this nature is loco- motor ataxia (where the posterior columns of the spinal cord and the sensory nerves are affected), fibrous degeneration of the liver oi testis, sclerosis of the tongue or rectal wall. It may cause thicken- ing of arteries closely allied to atheroma, which is of especial im- portance if it involves the cerebral vessels; more rarely it affects the veins. Syphilitic arteritis may predispose to aneurysm, though its effect in this direction has been exaggerated by some writers. Sometimes the tertiary lesions are of the most diverse nature, and affect many different organs at the same time; but in other cases one system is chiefly oi' alone involved. Thus one patient will present tertiary disease of various long and flat bones; in another the skin and subcutaneous tissues are extensively diseased; in a third the viscera and lymphatic glands, etc. Severe secondaries predispose to severe tertiary symptoms, though this is not an invariable rule. Inefficient mercurial treatment, priva- tions, and probably alcoholic abuse may be fairly given as causes of the development of tertiary lesions in a syphilitic patient; and chronic irritation and traumatism seem to have a decided effect upon their localisation. We have already expressed a strong belief that care- ful and prolonged treatment during the first two years after syphilitic infection is of great importance in preventing the onset of tertiary symptoms ; but at the same time, it must be admitted that in some cases it fails entirely. We will consider now the individual lesions of tertiary syphilis, roughly grouping them in the order of their frequency and importance. 1. Tertiary syphilitic disease of the bones.—The most