biSJilASES OF Ti-rb SKil^. ri‘i boils in vowing men are more probably due to tliis cause than to any peculiar state of general health. nisuiircstalioiis.—The germs enter, in the exiimples just mentioned, as a rule, through a hair-follicle and the glands which open into it, and multiply in the cellular tissue just around. Inflam- matory reaction leads to the formation of a raised itching and painful lump in the skin, often topped by a hair, which may be the centre of a small pustule. Resorption may take place if the boil be carefully protected from friction, etc., but the general rule is for suppuration to occur in from four to six days, and until the pus is let out the pain and tension may be very severe. This is especially the case in such situations as the auditory meatus, the nose, the perineum, and the buttock. The greatest possible relief is obtained by an early incision with a sharp narrow-bladed knife, followed by warm antiseptic poultices—e.g. carbolic lotion, 1 in 60, on boracic lint covered with oiled silk or guttapercha tissue. Granulation and healing will quickly occur in the case of a small boil, but a carbuncular slough may be of very large size, and the resulting excavation may take several weeks to fill up. This slough is of a greyish-white swollen aspect, adhering for some time to the surrounding corium Ijy processes, traction on which is extremely painful. The oiifices through the overlying skin may be very numerous unless an early incision has been made, and there is, as a rule, considerable undermining of the edges. INIicro- cocci are readily found in the discharge, and occasionally long bacilli, which resemble somewhat those of malignant pustule or true anthrax. In the latter affection (which in England is only met with amongst those engaged in sorting or carrying hides of dead sheep or oxen, or who are otherwise brought into contact with them), no pus is formed, there is a small black eschar at the centre of a large patch of congested and swollen skin. {See page 311.) The constitutional dis- turbance also is much greater, the patient’s temperature, for instance, with a malignant pustule may reach 104° to 106°, and the prognosis is infinitely more grave. Nevertheless, a carbuncle, if of large size, and occurring in an elderly subject wdth diabetes or in feeble health, may prove fatal, either through exhaustion or pysemia, or by the supervention of erysipelas or diffuse cellulitis. Carbuncles of the face, especially those of the lips, are perhaps more dangerous than any others, probably owing to the extreme vascularity of the part, and the readiness with wdiich the poison enters the veins. _ 111 the case both of carbuncle and boOs there is a marked tendency for infection of adjacent parts of the skin, particularly when ordinary poultices are used ; sometimes a regular crop of smaller boils form around the primary one. Hence care should be taken to renew the dressing frequently, to use one no larger than is strictly required, and to foment with a solution of carbolic acid or corrosive sublimate instead of the linseed or bread poultice. The regions of the body most often affected have already been mentioned. It remains to note that the dorsal surface of the fingeia