320 SURGICAL BI8BA8E8 DUE TO MIOROBIG INFECTION. the skull. In other cases the infiltration may extend directly down- wards to the neck, often involving the vertebr®. In most instances the swellings follow the chronic course above set out, but acute cases have been observed attended with severe pain, fevei’, and oedema of the floor of the mouth, tongue, and glottis, disappearing only with spontaneous opening or incision of the affected area, the symptoms resembling those of angina Ludovici (Partsch). When the pharynx is the seat of primary affection, difficulty, of deglutition may precede the formation of a cervical tumour, and dragging pain in swallowing has been noted in cases of primary in- fection of the oesophagus. Infection of the gullet is of especial importance, as thence the process extends readily to the posterior mediastinum, spine, and lungs, and may come to the surface on the back. When the lungs are affected, primarily or otherwise, hacking cough, expectoration (sometimes blood-stained), fever, sweating, and emaciation may precede the formation of locahsed empyemata, or the development of large masses of granulation tissue fllling the pleural space and replacing lung tissue. The abdominal organs may be in- volved secondarily to primary infection of the intestine, or by invasion from the thoracic space. Affection of the intestines may be heralded by pain and digestive derangement, followed by characteristic swell- ings and abscess formation. Pus from the fistulse often resembles that from a faecal abscess, and actinomycetes may be present in the stools. The liver or spleen may be much enlarged and characteristic abscesses form in them; and the kidneys or urinary, passages may also be involved secondarily. In the latter case actinomycetes may be discharged in the urine. Any abdominal or pelvic organ may, in fact, be invaded. Pressure upon the veins by the indurated masses may occasion widespread oedema in any situation. Diagnosis.—The chronicity of actinomycotic disease is its main characteristic, and the diagnosis may be rendered certain by dis- covery of the organism in the discharges or in the affected tissue. It should be borne in mind that the organism may be very sparsely distributed and is most likely to be found in the discharges and soft granulation tissue. Tumours have been mistaken for sarcomata, and the question of actinomycosis may arise in any chronic alveolar swelling, or in some tubercular deposits. Actinomycotic disease of the vermiform appendix may simulate ordinary appendicitis. The common absence of enlargement of the lymphatic glands is a valuable diagnostic point to be borne in mind. Prognosis.—Spontaneous recovery has not been observed, though it appeared possible in a case of pelvic actinomycosis implicating the urinary and intestinal tracts, reported by W. B. Ransome. The pro<^nosis depends entirely on the possibility of radically removing the°disease. When this is possible, the prognosis is good ; when vital or<^ans are implicated, or from the position of the deposits removal is Impossible, death occurs sooner or later. Patients may, however, live for years. . „ Treatment.—Extirpation of the deposits with the knife is by tar