DISEASES OP JOINTS. loss it runs over the front of the femux’, and may then infect the wholo of its synovial liniixg, forming a lai'ge collection, which can be traced into the pelvis under Poupai't’s ligament. Finally, tlie contents of the joint may make their way through the antei’ior part of the capsule, and pass down the inner pait of the thigh uixderneatli the adductor muscles, following in some cases the coux’se of the cii’cumflex artei'ies. All these abscesses may start originally from primary disease in any of the three situations mentioned—e.g. femur, acetabulum, or fig, 452.-Abscesses iu connection with Hip attachment of the capsule round .TniTXT. IJISOJISG. _ - the pelvic aspect of the bone, and form an abscess under the iliacus muscle (Fig. 452). Of course, in any of these cases the general surface of the joint might escape altogether, but as a matter of fact it rarely does so. The abscess which forms within the pelvis is the result of primary acetabular disease, or of the perfoi-ation of tlie acetabulum with general infection of the joint, and may travel towards the surface in several directions. Perhaps the commonest course is to gravitate towards the rectum, into which it may burst or ])ass along the latter to the perineum. Again, it may ascend under the muscles and present below Poupart s liga- ment, usually on the outer side of the vessels. Finally, it may enter the bursa under the tendon of the psoas muscle, and so make synovial membrane—but, as a rule, depend upon involvement of all the structures of the joint, and when present may be gene- rally held to indicate the latter. There are, however, abscesses of small size, which may be derived from disease, limited to one or other of these three components of the joint, without involving the others. For instance, a small localised deposit of tubercle in the synovial membrane may caseate slowly and soften the capsule outside it before it has spread to the joint within, and may thus make its way into the parts outside the capsule. Or again, a focus of disease in the head may, as already described, burrow outwards through the centre of the neck, until it finally reaches the soft parts outside the in the iliac fossa; i, ahsceesunder the the I’OOt of the tl’Ochanter. Dis- ....f ..•vx a • r> (iKanoea OTronHilIlT . . • . ^ <1 lum may work its way towards its way to the inner aspect of the thigh.