GUNSHOT FRACTURES. 241 the aiK^le of impact. The conoiclal bullet is responsible for a large amount of fissuHng caused by its wedge action: with reference to this fissurin", Kirker has pointed out that the periosteal mvcst- nmnt of 1 "“fragments is not much disturbed With the round buHet, on the contrary, there is little Assuring, but great comminu- tion With regard to the structure of the bone, the effects on the loner’, short, and flat bones must be considered respectively. The long bones may be (1) simply contused: here the velocity of the bullet is slow ; the soft parts may be traversed, or simply bruised without any open wound being present. If there be only a wound of entrance, the bullet may lodge or fall out. The periosteum may be torn or lacerated, with efiused blood; blood may be infaltrated into the bony wall or medulla. Where there is no open wound the diagnosis is difficult; it rests chiefly on the continual presence^ ot. great local boring pain, the swelling due to the periosteal effusion Ld the immobility of the part. The sequelae may consist in local necrosis, or in septic inflammatory processes, starting from^ the osteum or medullary cavities ] or in healing with thickening of the bone and some temporary hindrance to free movement. (2) Partial or complete fracture may be caused. The partial fractures have been well described by Longmore : they comprise (a) the "gutter'' fracture, where the bone is furrowed. This occurs chiefly near the ends of the long bones in the neighbourhood of the spongy tissue. Should no sepsis occur, healing takes place after ex- foliation of the crushed parts, leaving a depression. (6) A portion of the bone may be detached, as a splinter. Crests of the bones and projecting surfaces are chiefly affected. Their relation to the perios- teum is important as regards prognosis. After experimenting with the Martini-Henry bullet, Longmore found that a larger projiortion of fragments at the part struck retained their periosteal connections when this bullet was used, than was the case with the Enfield bullet; long fragments detached by Assuring were held in close apposition by the periosteum. The importance of this connection is manifest. Chauvel points out that at a close range the bone is splintered in all directions, the splinters being quite free and deprived of all perios- teum ; where the distance is greater and the velocity less, the splintering is less and the fragments are held together by periosteum, (c) The bone may be completely perforated, especially in the neigh- bourhood of an epiphysis ; from the perforation, fissures may extend in all directions. Fischer states the canal thus made may remain permanently, (cf) The external table may be driven into the can- cellated structure. Other injuries included amongst “partial fractures ” are where the bone is (e) simply perforated, the bullet lodging or subsequently falling out. Such cases may cause great difficulty in diagnosis, as in the well-known example in Garibaldi, where the presence of the bullet was only ascertained by the porce- lain probe of Nffiaton. A small bullet may also, after penetration into the medullary cavity, be subsequently displaced upwards or downwards. The ball may, after nenetration, become encysted, as