XXVIII. DISEASES OF THE SKIN. By JONATHAN HUTCHINSON, Junk., F.R.C.S., Assistant Surgeon to the London Hospital; Surgeon to the Lock Hospital. Corns.—As the result of prolonged pressure or friction the horny or epidermic layer of the skin is prone to take on local hypertrophy, preceded by congestion of the papillary layer beneath. A simple thickening of the epidermis at one spot, such as is often seen on the fingers of seamstresses or workmen, or on the palmar aspect of the first phalangeal bases, is known as a callosity. A corn difiers from a callosity in the fact that there is in addition a central down- oTowth of epidermis displacing the papillae, which at the edge of the corn are elongated and enlarged as well as abnormally congests. True corns are not often met with except on the feet, where the compression of the toes by ill-fitting narrow or tight boots renders the dorsal surface of the toes peculiarly liable to them. The pla^r surface of the foot under the heads of the metatarsal bones m orte^ afiected, less commonly the heel. In fact, probably few of the boot- wearing race escape the development of corns at one or other of these positions. i i „ The epidermic cells towards the surface of a corn undergo enlaige- ment and remarkable keratinisation, but sometimes the wedge of epidermis becomes soft, and is then especially pamful and irritable. A further stage is the formation of a small abscess under or in the corn, and ultimately of an ulcer with hard raised edges, buch ulcers under the “tread” of the foot may extend deeply into the tissues of the sole, and constitute one form of the so-called per- forating ulcer.” They are especially liable to develop in patients the subject of tabes or some otlier nervous disease mvolvmg im- paired sensation in the foot, but may occur quite independently ot *^^^^\nothei^ variety of soft corns is met with between the toes, the excessive secretion of sweat giving them a sodden w i ® ’ Hard corns are occasionally complicated by the • , bursa beneath them (constituting one variety of of course, under sullicient irritation may inflame oi suppui . Another complication of a corn to be noted is the occurrence of small hieniorrhages into it or the corium beneath.