741. INJUIilES OF BONES. Separation of an epiphysis, without displacement or tearing of the pei’iosteum, can be characterised only by slight mobility and crepitus. Partial separation is unrecognisable unless accompanied by a greenstick fracture and deformity. Sucli injuries are usually taken for bad sprains, and are probably sometimes followed by im- paired growth. The prog^nosis has some special points in it. Generally the functions of a joint are threatened by permanent displacement or by callus, which tends to luxuriance owing to the extensive stripping up of periosteum. Suppuration and necrosis have occurred with undue frequency as compared with fractures—a fact connected by some with the wide separation of periosteum, which, at all events, implies a wide area of injured tissues, in which pyogenic organisms would be likely to settle and grow. Again, the deep layer of the periosteum, like the junction of epiphysis and shaft, is actively growing, and very vascular, and we know from experience of acute infective osteomyelitis and periostitis, that these tissues are specially liable to the attack of pyogenic organisms. But these considerations afford a by no means complete explanation of the occurrence of suppura- tion ; for, as Hutchinson points out, no suppuration occurred among twenty-four cases of detachment of the lower humeral epiphysis, whilst it followed in six out of ten cases in which the great trochanter was concerned. Possibly this may be accounted for by the fact that the great trochanter is generally detached by direct violence, from which widespread injury of soft parts results. Abra- sion of the skin would, of course, increase the liability to infection. All authorities seem now agreed that marked impairment of growth is only an exceptional result of these accidents. • Experi- ments on animals, the prolonged observation of cases occurring in man, the rarity of .shortening after Ogston’s operation and “ redressement forcd ” for genu valgum, the failure even of suppura- tive epiphysitis always to arrest growth, coincide to show that the epiphysial disc resists injury strongly. J. Hutchinson, junr., h^ followed up six cases of separation of the lower radial epiphysis, in only one of which did marked shortening occur. Even resection of a protruding and irreducible end of a shaft does not necessarily stop all growth. And we may recall here that detachment of epiphyses is most common at an age when the growth to be expected from all epiphyses, except those of the first importance, is so slight as to be negligeable. The most important factors in producing arrest of growth are :— (1) The plane of separation. Probably the danger is greatest when the “preparatory zone” of proliferating cartilage cells is torn through. (2) Permanent displacement of the epiphysis ; in animals displaced epiphysial discs undergo rapid atrophy (Hutchinson). (3) Any inflammation, especially suppurative. (4) INIecluamcal destruction of growing cells by rough manipulations, which will also excite inflammation.