423 INHERITED SYPHILIS. produce a similar appearance. Excoriations or mucous patches round the anterior nares and the eyes are also very common in con- venital syphilis (Fig. 89). With regard to the bullous eruption (so- called pemphigus), it may be taken as a sign of severe constitutional depression, and although under mercurial treatment these children not infrequently recover, they more commonly die in a marasmic condition. Occasionally a child is born with a bullous or other syphilitic eruption on its skin, but this is rare, and nearly always the erythema or lichen first develops a few weeks after birth. Pemphigus in infants is not always syphilitic. It is said, however, that if it affects the palms and soles it is always so. Amongst the rarer forms of skin eruption we may note an ecthyma or large pustular sores, purpura, and tubercular or gum- matous nodules starting in the subcutaneous layer, involving the skin, and perhaps ulcerating. Sometimes with the eruption goes falling of the hair, though this is, of course, less obvious than in adults, and the whole skin may be withered, sallow or earthy-coloured, and wrinkled, so that an “ old- man expression ” may be produced. It is remarkable in these cases to see the effect of judicious mercurial treatment, the infant putting on fat and the skin becoming of a healthy tint and consistence. At the same time, it is most important to bear in mind that a syphilitic infant may be plump and healthy-looking during the first few months after birth, for this fact partly accounts for the unfortunate cases of transference of syphilis by vaccination. 2. AfTections of the mucous meiubraiies.—These have a special importance and interest in inherited syphilis. Mucous patches are common on the lips, tongue, etc., but symmetrical ulcers on the tonsils are rarely seen, compared with the corresponding stage of acquired syphilis. On the other hand, a general diffused stomatitis and infiammation of the nasal mucous membrane (neither of which is at all frequent in secondary acquired syphilis, apart from the over-use of mercury, which produces quite a different form of stomatitis) are often met with. This stomatitis is often considered to be “thrush” by the mothei’, and it may have a most injurious effect upon the developing teeth. The temporai’y set may fail to develop, or decay and fall out soon after they are cut, owing to the injury to their enamel, and those permanent teeth which are nearest the surface during the first few months—namely, the upper central incisors and the first molars—may be so affected in their growth as to show, latei’, features characteristic of congenital syphilis. These will be described later (Fig. 91). The rhinitis or muco-purulent iu- flanmiation of the nasal mucous membrane causes marked obstruc- tion in breathing and suckling; the infant “ snuffles ” at every deep inspiration, and the growth of the nasal bones is seriously interfered with. If long persisting, the inflammation may lead to necrosis of the delicate bones forming the nasal walls and to ozsena, though these symptoms are usually met with at a later period. In any case, whether actual necrosis occurs or not, the nasal bridge fails to