ANAESTHETICS. 274 indispensable. The bag having been partly filled with gas, the i’ace- piece is carefully adjusted. After a few breaths of air through the apparatus, nitrous oxide is allowed to enter the face-piece. The ba« is kept fairly full by rotating the foot-key. Respiration grows deeper and quicker, the features become dusky or cyanotic, the pulse is accelerated, and the pupils usually dilate. In from thirty to seventy seconds respiration loses its rhythm and becomes “ catchy,” jerky, or tumultuous; stertor may be heard; and clonic muscular movements of the face and extremities appear. The administration of nitrous oxide for a dental operation is usually carried to this point; the face-piece is then removed and the operation begun. An ansesthesia of about thirty seconds remains after the face-piece is removed. Re-breathing is not, as a rule, advisable. But should the nitrous oxide unexpectedly fall short, a few mo- ments of to-and-fro breathing towards the end will prevent the failure to anaesthetise which might otherwise occur. 2. By nitrous oxide mixed with air.—By giving an occasional breath of air through the stopcock during the administration of nitrous oxide, the in- halation may be so lengthened that operations lasting for several minutes may be performed. Care must be taken not to give too much air, as this would interfere with anaesthesia. On the other hand, too little would render the ad- ministration difficult, owing to the stertor and spasm wliich would result. In dental practice an occasional breath of air with nitrous oxide, by allowing a longer inha- lation, leads to a longer after-anaesthesia. 3. By nitrous oxide mixed with oxygen.—A special ap- paratus is required. The anaesthesia produced is the safest and most perfect with which we are acquainted. The asphyxial phenomena of ordinary nitrous oxide anaesthesia (cyanosis, stertor, aiid “jactita- tion ”) are prevented, and a deeper and more sleep-like anaesthesia results. The mixture is known as “ schlafgas ” in Germany. The method is valuable (1) in patients with serious cardiac or pulmonary disease ; (2) in very old persons; (3) in anaemic, cachectic, and feeble subjects; and (4) in children. In addition to its value in dental surgery, it is very useful for short operations within the nose and throat, and in orthopaedic surgery. 4. By ctiier, xvith Clover’s regulating iuhaler.—This ingenious apparatus is shown in Fig. 48. It consists essentially of {a) a face-piece carrying a whistle-shaped metal tube fitting into {b) a spherical metal ether reservoir, and (c) a bag Wlien the re.scrvoir is rotated on the whistle-shaped tube attached to the face-piece, more and more of the current which nasses between Fig. 4S.—Clover’s Portable Regu- lating Ether Inhaler.