TREATMENT. 213 1. 2. 3. 4. Tliose made by the surgeon through unbroken skin. (a) Where the edges of tlie skin can be brought together. Where union by first intention fails. (c) Where the edges of the skin cannot be brought together. {d) Wounds of mucous membrane. Accidental wounds. Contused wounds. Lacerated wounds. The importance of these distinctions concerns the question of sepsis, which, as I have already indicated, is the mam point to be considered in the treatment of wounds. Where the wound is made throuc^h unbroken skin by the surgeon the avoidance of sepsis practically entirelv depends on his care. Where mucous membrane is involved in the “wound it is impossible for the surgeon completely to exclude bacteria, and he must do his best to diminish their action. Where the wound has been made accidentally the problem is, on the other hand, a totally difierent one, because here the bacteria have already entered the wound, and the surgeon’s efforts must be directed, if possible, to getting rid of them again. 1. Wounds made by the surgeon through unbroken skin, (a) WUere the edges of the skin can be bronghi together. In such wounds the great aim must be to obtain healing by*first intention, and in order to get this we have to follow out the principles which have been already indicated—namely, to provide rest for the part, to avoid any mechanical or chemical irritation by applications to the wound, and, above all, to secure the absence of pyogenic organisms. This is best done by paying the fullest attention to the details of antiseptic or aseptic surgery, which is the best and most certain method of treatment. With the mew of obtaining healing by first intention, and avoiding the various dangers of wounds, I shall describe the method I now carry out—namely, aseptic treatment on the Listerian principle, which aims, as far as possible, to destroy all organisms which may obtain access to a wound, and to prevent their entrance subsequent to the operation. In taking measures to prevent the entrance of bacteria into a wound we must in the first place look to the sources from which the bacteria may come. As I have mentioned, they may come from the dust either in the air, or deposited on surrounding objects, or from the skin of the patient, or from that of the operator, on which they may not only be lying, but actually growing. In the foremost place the greatest attention must be paid to the shin ; in fact, it is essential that the pyogenic organisms should be thoroughly removed both from the skin at the seat of operation, and over a sufficient area around to allow ample overlapping of the dressing, and also from the hands of the surgeon and his assistant. On the skin these bacteria especially inhabit the surface epithelium and haii’s, and penetrate to a slight extent into the sebaceous and hair