WOUND OF AB.TEF1E8. 503 healing of the woTiiid in the vessel without obliteration of its lumen. i , ^.i (2) When nature has closed the end of a divided artery, the surgeon should not interfere with it. iii.ii (3) Every open artery—proximal or distal end—should be closed as quickly as possible. (4) All obstructions to the circulation through other than the injured vessels should be carefully removed. (5) Gangrenous parts should be removed at the level of the injury to the artery. 5. Gunshot wounds of arteries.—These injuries are rare in civil practice, but are a very frequent cause of death in warfare. {See page 240.) A bullet may cause contusion of an artery of any degree of intensity, or it may completely sever a vessel, and in certain situations such an injury involves a great risk of gangrene, especially if the companion vein is also wounded and subsequently tied. The special lesions caused by bullets are two : one is the scooping out of a portion of the circumference of an artery, and the other is the double perforation of a large artery, the projectile passing quite through it. Portions of clothing and accoutrements may be carried by a bullet into the deep parts of a wound, and even into the injured vessel and act as a plug, so that there is no hsemorrhage until these foreign bodies ai-e removed. Such wounds are often very deep, and the arteries involved inaccessible, while the risk of complication with other injuries, such as fractnre of bone, wound of vein, nerve, joint, or viscus, and the danger of wound-infection from foreign matter carried in with the bullet or from extension from the contaminated surface of the wound, are very great. The treatment of gunshot wounds is discussed elsewhere (page 247). Gunshot wounds of arteries must be treated like other injuries ; foreign matters should all be earefully removed; partially-severed vessels should be secured by double circular ligatures; completely- severed arteries should be tied if bleeding. The utmost care should be taken to render, and to keep, the part aseptic. Where it is certain, from the nature of the injury, that a useful limb cannot be obtained, pi’imary amputation should be practised. If gangrene occurs, amputation should be at once performed at the level of the injury to the artery. 6. Injuries of veins. — These lesions are produced by the same forms of violence as injuries of arteries. Contusions of veins lead to coagulation of the blood within them; when more severe, death of all the coats of the vein is caused, with thrombosis j this occurs in severe crushes of parts, such as are followed by local gangrene. Owing to the lower blood pressure witliin the veins, the danger of dilatation of the vessel or of haemorrhage— primary or secondary—is very much less than in contusion of arteries. Caccrations occur where limbs or parts of limbs are violently torn off, and in the reduction of dislocations, especially whmi these