762 INJURIES OF BONES. localised suppurations result. The presence of these severe and prolonged inflammations is necessarily accompanied by increased vascularity of the part; the periosteum receives its full share of the increased blood supply, and lays down new bone abundantly (Fig. 224). Thus we always find a larger amount of callus in a septic compound fracture than in a .simple fracture. New bone may be deposited in considerable amount even on an uninjured bone parallel to the broken one; other evidence of this increased vascularity is to be found in the extensive growth of hair upon the part. In the most favourable circumstances, inflammatory matting of soft parts to each other, and to the fracture, must be greater than in simple injuries, and it may be very widespread. The muscles degenerate and waste, mainly as a result of the inflammation, prolonged rest, and compression during treatment; portions of them or of their tendons may slough. Lastly, the presence of a septic wound opens the door to all the infective diseases of wounds—especially erysipelas, septi- cscmia, and pysemia—which latter is al- ways favoured by the presence of injured bone in the septic wound. Secondary haemorrhage and late accidents to vessels are almost always of septic origin. Theory of the formation of callus. —The majority believe that the formation of bony callus is a reparative, not an inflammatory process, and that it occurs only in the presence of medullary cells, which alone can become osteoblasts. Transplantation experiments have shown that the cells of the deeper layer of the periosteum and, in a much feebler degree, those of the medulla, possess the power of forming bone—apartfrom bone itself; they apparently do so in fractures, producing the external and internal callus, of which the former is by far the moi'e exuberant, for any effect which the bone and the cells in the Haversian canals may have should tell equally on both sides; lastly, Ollier carefully removed a zone of periosteum, and broke the bone—no callus formed till the edge of the periosteum was reached. This has not always been the result, but the evidence is sufficient to show the great importance of the periosteum in the Fig. 224.—compound commi- nuteri Fracture of the Tibia and probably a simple Fracture of the Fibula at the Junction of the lower and middle thirds. The fibula is united and pre- sents a long uniform curve out- wards, consequent upon a shortening of the tibia due jrro- bably to the removal of bone. The ends of tlie tibial frag- ments are swollen by callus in which a single splinter is caught on the outer side. Most of the tibia and even of tlie fibula shows a thin layer of new bone.