131 TREATMENT. that months may elapse before the final line of separation appears. The cause of this occurrence in the case of dry gangrene varies. In the first place, the inflammation in connection with the separation of the dead piece may be excessive and may lead to the death of the tissues and further spread of the gangrene. In the second place, the inflammation may not be excessive, but the vitality of the tissues may be extremely low, so that they die as the result of even a very moderate attack of inflammation. In the third place, while the Line of separation is being formed, the cause which led to the original gangrene has extended, so that parts which were formerly sufficiently supplied with blood are no longer so. This is more especially the case where the gangrene has originated from thrombosis of an artery which was previously diseased, and where as time goes on the thrombosis extends, so that branches arising higher up, which in the first instance kept up the supply of blood to the parts in the immediate vicinity of the dying tissues, become closed, and then the circulation in this part is arrested. And in the fourth place, the extension of the gangrene, both in the dry and the moist forms, may be due to certain specific organisms which have entered and which complicate the process. Treatment of gangrene.—The great principle in the local treat- ment in cases of gangrene is, in the first place, to prevent the occur- rence of sepsis, if possible, and, in the second place, to permit and, in fact, promote evaporation of the fluids contained in the dead parts. In order to prevent the occurrence of sepsis in the part—which leads, on the one hand, to septic poisoning and general disturbance of the patient, and, on the other, to too violent an inflammation at the fine of separation, and to the consequent extension of the process— steps should be taken to disinfect thoroughly the area which is about to die. This is done in the usual way, which is described fully in the article on Wounds (page 214); and in this case special care must be taken thoroughly to disinfect the folds of the nails and the parts underneath their points. When the part has been thoroughly disinfected, it should be wrapped up in antiseptic dressings, more especially in the cyanide gauze, used in the manner described elsewhere (page 219), outside which is placed a layer of salicylic wool. This dressing not only tends to prevent the occurrence of sepsis, but also permits the evaporation of the fluids in the tissues. In both moist and dry gangrene the question of amputation must be considered from the veiy commencement, and the answer will depend on the cause of the gangrene, on the symptoms which are present, and on the general condition of the patient. The ques- tion of amputation or otherwise will be considered in speaking of the various forms of gangrene according to their setiology. As regards the general treatment, it must consist in suitable nourishment and the use of stimulants as the patient is in a weak condition, the employment of vai’ious drugs to relieve the pain, more especially the use of opium, and attention to the excretions F 2