1000 ^ DISLOCATIONS. and promises to be very successful. The greater number of old dislocations of the hip may well be left alone; and as the head of the bone works for itself a new socket, the tissues condense about it, and the lacerated muscles heal and recover contractility. A very useful limb will often ultimately result, the shortening being remedied by an appropriate boot. Muscle at first intervenes be- tween the osseous surfaces, and a regular new bony socket seldom forms so quickly as is the case in the shoulder (Fig. 406). The above remarks apply to any variety of ancient hip dislocation. If anchylosishas occurred in a bad position, Adam’s operation of dividing the neck of the bone with a fine saw would probably give good results. 2. Dislocation backwards into the vicinity of the sciatic notch (Figs. 407, 408). —Much the same accidents that produce a dorsal dislocation will produce a dislocation near the sciatic notch, if the thigh be much flexed and rotated inwards. The amount of violence is gene- rally less. The head of the bone does not pass so far upwards, lying beneath the obturator in- termis tendon, and usually upon the spine of the iscETum. ' iSymptorns.—These resemble the dorsal dislocation. As the head of the bone ascends but little, the shortening is less— usually under an inch. The thigh is flexed, adducted, and rotated inwards. The knee pointing to the knee of the sound side, and the ball of the toe towards the dorsum of the toe of the uninjured limb. The trochanter is a little raised, and the fold of the buttock also. The undue hollow of the groin from the sinking back of the femoral vessels ma-y be detected. The slight shortening and the direction of the axis of the injured limb across the knee of the same thigh will differentiate this dislocation from the displacement on to the dorsum ibi. There is sometimes considerable flexion of the thigh in this accident, a symptom which is especially marked when the patient is lying upon his back. The shortening will then appear to be great; but on measurement, this is negatived. The head of the bone may^ be felt on deep manipulation, from the buttock, rectum, or vagina. This dislocation is often difficult to diagnose when there is rnuch swelling, or in corpulent persons whose hip muscles and glutei are bulky and loaded with fat. It is not infrequently overlooked, and I have seen considerable mobility in sciatic dislocation, so that a superficial observer might easily have declared that no displace ment could have existed. Fig. 407.—Sciatic Dislocation of the Hip. (After Pick.)