872 INJURIES OF BONES. or the fragment may be pinned on to its proper surface. Fracture of the sustentaculum should be treated in a position of moderate inversion. In bad cases some eversion and flattening of the arch are almost certain to persist. The astragalus is broken by similar violence to the above. It may be comminuted, especially in its anterior half; or the fracture may run through it transversely, longitudinally, or obliquely so as to separate the tibial surface from the rest of the bone. These con- siderable fragments, particularly the anterior half, or the tibial surface with more or less of the bone below it, may be dislocated widely, even through the skin j more or less dorsal or plantar flexion, with in- version or eversion, results according as the fragment goes backwards or forwards, inwards or outwards. On the other hand, the bone may be comminuted, and yet there may be no deformity and no crepitus may be obtained. Occasionally, after such an injury an acute sup- purative inflammation of the ankle comes on; the abscess is opened, the finger discovers the fragment or fragments; their removal is likely to be followed by recovery with a good movable foot. Treatment must be conducted as for the os calcis; but an anesthetic is likely to be required if fragments are dislocated. If they cannot be reduced, and do not seem likely to do harm, they may be left for removal when the injured tissues have recovered to some extent; but if they are causing deformity or pressing on the skin, or if the application of a splint would endanger the skin over them, they must be removed, Much care must be taken as to the position of the foot. Pressure over a mass of cotton wool is the best way of controlling swelling and fixing the joint. In a few days plaster may be applied. In compound cases the wound must be cleansed, dislocated fragments removed, and a large wool dressing applied. The metatarsal bones are almost always broken by direct violence. Pain, increased by pushing towards the tarsus the corre- sponding toe, mobility, crepitus, with little or no deformity are the signs ; naturally they are best marked in the first and fifth. The i>lialang;es, more commonly than those of the hand, are broken by crushes. A little strapping wound round in a simple, or gauze in a compound, injury, supplies the necessary rest; the adjacent toes may be used as splints. All the above injuries are frequently compound and may require primary amputation for damage to soft parts; but, as in the hand, if there be doubt as to the condition of any important parts, the whole should be cleaned and wrapped in an antiseptic dressmg until it is clear whether the suspected parts are going to hve or to die.