988 DISLOGATIONS. Displacciiiciit of the head of the radius downwards, suhluxatioii of the head of tlie radius—This may be de- scribed as a peculiar condition of the elbow found in young children, produced, almost always, by lifting them up by the hand or ai-m, or dragging them along by the hand. Afterwards, it will be found that the child keeps its elbow slightly flexed and the fore-arm held midway between pronation and supination. The patient also complains of acute pain in the joint, and a slight projection is felt posteriorly in the situation of the head of the radius. If the hand be grasped, the elbow flexed, and the opposite movement made to the position the bones of the fore-aian have‘assumed, supinatiou in pronation, pronation in supination, the jpa^te will usually be, restored tb“usefulness*^nd movements Aniithetics are very useful in these cases, as movement may be unbearable. If a slight projection of the head of the radius can be made out, pressure by the thumbs should be made upon this at the same time. Numerous pathological explanations have been given of this little accident. It has been attributed to a hitching of the bicipital tuberosity against the edge of the ulna, to the interposition of fibres of the supinator brevis, to separation of the epiphysis, while other authors have referred the mischief to the inferior radio-ulnar joint. The more probable explanation seems to be, that the laxity of the ligaments permits the head of the radius to be drawn downwards, and the orbicular ligament slipping upwards, a fold of it becomes interposed between the head of the radius and the condyle (Peri£?arde, J. Hutchinson, junior). CoiiiponniKl dislocations oftlie elbow, laterally or toack.- wards.—Amputation is rarely called for, unless the soft parts are exceedingly damaged and fractures co-exist. Should the wounds in the skinl)e clean cut, simple reduction should be effected, otherwise excision must be performed, and then the bone must be freely removed if the surgeon wishes to obtain a subsequently movable fore-arm. The prognosis of these injuries as regards danger to life is favourable, though fibrous anchylosis is apt to ensue. Congenital dislocations of the elbow.—These are not unknown, especially in cases of “monstrosities.” I have seen congenital displacement of the head of the radius in both b™bs of the same child, on the one side forwards, on the other back- Dislocation of the inferior radio-ulnar articulation.— Unless combined with fracture of the radius, this dislocation is so rare as hardly to merit notice. I have seen several cases, however, of pathological displacement from rheumatoid arthritis. The accident is caused by violent twisting movements of the hand. The internal lateral ligament is ruptured, the triangular mter- articular fibro-cartilage torn, and the head of the ulna bein thrown backwards or forwards, makes an obvious prominence, posteriorly or anteriorly. Reduction seems to have effected by extension and counter-extension. Well-padded splints