WOUNDS OF JOINTS. 951 attempted. In cases where the surgeon has reason to suspect that some septic material has gained entrance, the strictest watch should be kept upon the temperature and local symptoms, and any accumu- lation of serum or pus in the track of the wound should be afforded speedy exit. In more extensive injuries, when it is determined to save the joint, every recess of the cavity should be flushed clear of blood and dirt by hot perchloride lotion (1 in 4,000), and large drain- age-tubes should be inserted in convenient dependent situations. After healing of a punctured wound, should swelling and fever supervene, with the signs of acute suppuration, the joint should be aspirated, and if sero-pus is found in it, the articulation must be opened and freely drained, and especially irrigated. This is too often insufficiently done. In the knee, wheretEere are several complex pouches, a tube may reach into one, and not the others. In this articulation abscess may readily burrow up the front of the femur beneath the quadriceps muscle, and even point near Scarpa’s triangle. The deep bursa beneath the quadriceps is also very apt to become filled with pus. A knowledge of this will point to the importance of inserting large tubes in more than one situation. Secondary amputation for suppuration following wound of a joint is seldom, if ever, needful in the upper extremity, and in the case of the knee or ankle, such an operation should never be performed during high fever, when the limb is swollen and infil- trated with products of inflammation. When abscesses are openetl, and the temperature has become hectic in type, the chances of recovery after amputation are far greater. In a child a movable articulation may be obtained, even after suppuration, if the joint be promptly drained. In adults, firm fibrous anchylosis usually—but not universally—follows. Bony anchylosis will only occur if the whole of the cartilage be destroyed, and the bone ends kept in accurate apposition. It is most important to maintain the limb in such a position that its future usefulness may be ensured, even if stiff. Anaesthetics—especially chloroform—which I believe to be the best agent to administer to patients who are ill and in great suffering, are here very useful, to enable the surgeon to straighten a flexed and painful joint. DisloCBitionS of joints. IVonieiicIntui'e and coiiipai’n- tive frequency.—Dislocations are well divided, for purposes of description, into the traumatic, spontaneous or pathological, and the congenital. Besides these, dislocations are spoken of as complete or incomplete, and partial, simple or compound, and complicated, when associated with fracture. An idea of the frequency of different dislocations may be obtained from the records of the Middlesex Hospital for ten years, quoted by H. Mon-is in Holmes’ “ System of Surgery.” Out of 283 cases of dislocations of all sorts, there were : Of the shoulder, 133 ; hip, 8 • clavicle, 8; patella, 10; jaw, 12; knee (partial), 1; knee (semi- lunar cartilages), 5; foot (including ankle, astragalus, and sub- astragaloid displacements) 9 ; radius and ulna at elbow 20 ; upper