WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. 204 tissues has been completely removed, and that no attempt has been made to bring the edges of the wound together. _ In such a case, the first effect of the operation is the same as in union by first intention, namely, that as the result of the injui’y done to the tissues by the knife and by the manipulations, the early stages of inflammation occur up to the point of exudation, and the surface of the wound becomes covered with lymph. In healing by granulation, fuvther causes of inflammation now come into play and keep up the process, the most common being the development of pyogenic organisms. Other causes, however, which produce a certain amount of granulation, are the irritation of the dressing or of chemi- cal substances applied to the wound. Whatever be the cause, the result is that after a few hours the lymph, which in the first instance glazed the surface of the wound, becomes liquefied and dis- appears, and the inflamma- tion over the whole surface continues up to the stage of destruction of the tissue and its replacement by granula- tion tissue (Fig. 12). After the wound has become covered with this tissue, granulations appear, the young tissue being heaped up in the form of little buds over the whole surface, so that the wound instead of bemg smooth, is covered with little red warty projections or granulations^ (P^g® 61) fFi^s. 36 37). These granulations go on increasing in sme, till bv-and-by the whole wound becomes filled up, at the same time the older granulation material at the deeper parts of the wound being protected from further irritation by the layer of granulations above it, organises into fibrous tissue, which like all young fibrous tissue, tends to contract, and thus while on the one hand the depth of the wound is being filled up by granulations, the extent of the wound is being diminished by the contraction of this young fibrous tissue formed in the deeper parts. When these granulations have nearly or quite reached the level of the skm, spread over the surface from the margms of the wound Fig. 3b), and as soon as they become covered with epithelium and are thus protected from irritation, the cells in the granulations develop mto fibrous tissue which again contracts. This process of growth of granulations, of contraction of the wound, and of growth of epithelium over it, goes Fie 37.—Granulations from the Surface of a Wound, showing the Buds, the numerous young Blood-vessels shooting up mto each, and the Organisation of the deeper Layers into filirous Tissue.