1039 SEFTIO SYNOVITIS. SYNOVITIS DUE TO CAUSES OPERATING THROUGH THE BLOOD. Classification.—The three forms of simple synovitis—tlie acute, the subacute and the chronic—produced by causes operating from toiihont, may be taken as types of inflammatory change in the synovial membrane of joints. But there are other forms of disease of the same structure, due to causes operating/rom within, which remain for our consideration. Among these may be mentioned those inflammations set up by poisons carried to the synovial membrane through the blood, which irritate the former. Of these there are many, such as the gonorrhoeal, puerperal, scarlatinal, acute rheumatic, and the affections of joints which follow in many cases on small-pox, typhoid fever, dysentery, and renal disease, together with the synovitis of tubercle, syphilis, and gout. We will do well however, at all events for the present, to group a number of the above affections under one heading, and speak of them simply as the septic inflammations of the synovial membrane. For as yet it is hardly possible to draw any distinction as to setiology between the inflammations produced in joints by the septic matter introduced into the blood from definite putrid wounds on the surface, and tliose caused by toxic agents reaching the circulation through other less evident centres of infection. The effects, at all events, are practically the same; and it seems probable that, when in the course of puerperal or typhoid fever,|of scarlatina, gonorrhoea, acute rheumatism, dysentery, and small-pox, the synovial membrane inflames, it is again merely a question of infection of the system generally from some raw or ulcerating surface, be it in the throat, urethra, intestine, or uterus. The specific poisons in each of these cases, if not identical, have, nevertheless, so much in common that we may put them in the same group, and speak of them as the septic irritants of the synovial membranes. Probably, if not certainly, the poison operating in many of these affections is a, mixed one, consisting of the toxic products of several forms of fission fungi. This is the case, we know, in gonorrhceal synovitis, in which the specific organism of the urethral catarrh is, so far as we know, aerobic, and not propagated in the blood, or otherwise than on mucous surfaces exposed to air. And yet gonorrhoea is fre- quently followed by severe pysemic affections of joints, with the pro- duction in them of several forms of pathogenic organisms. The same may jjrobably be said of the synovitis which follows scarlatina, typhoid, dysentery, and other similar disorders. In tubercle, on the other hand, we have, as a rule, a pure unmixed affection, as also in syphilis. In gout, a,gain, we have a definite specific poison, in the form of a chemical irritant—urate of soda. And the mode in which this acts in setting up synovitis throws considerable light on the other processes in which the irritant cannot be so easily isolated