2 SUBOIOAL BAOTHBIOLOGY. screw-sluinod organisms, the long chains of which are known as spirilla, these dividing into shorter lengths to form tlie comma- shaped organisms such a-s are met with in cholera. t • 1. Classification.—For our purpose the simple classification into micrococci (spheres or granules), bacilli (rods or stave^ Lat. haculus), and spirilla (screw-shaped organisms or spirals) is sufficient. This does not, of course, take into account the method of develop- ment, division, and life-history, but serves merely for purposes of recognition and description in surgical work, for which it is at present amply sufficientocci classified as diplococci; streptococci (already described); tetrads-in which there are two planes of division at right angles to each other, little groups of four be_ g formed ; sarcina or packet or wool-sack cocci—the result of ^msion in three planes, in which the groups are composed of at least eight cells; and ascococci (Gr. kaKoc, a wine-skm a leathern bag) a term now not much used, in which groups of cocci are contained within a definite capsule. _ The straight and elliptical bacteria are termed bacilli. 9 <^triirture—These organisms are made up of a delicate protoplasm or vegetable albumen which takes the stains of aniline dyes L deeply that there is supposed to be interspersed throughout a cLsiderable quantity of nuclear chromatin (page 51). There are, howeyev, more deeply-stained bodies scattered throughout the proto- nlasm which are probably composed of nuclear substance, Ls not yet been satisfactorily proyed. It has been suggested that th rapid ye-etative diyision of the cell is due to the presence of a large amount ""of this nuclear substance. Unstained, the fungus protem, or myco-protein, as tHs yegetable albumen was named by Nencki, Pfdnnrlpss or faintly yellow, homogeneous or glassy-looking, granular or yacuolated. Minute granules of chlorophyl^ ^ fefractile particles which giye the reactions of of sulphur or starch are sometimes seen. In ceitain cases P K wuch the <Ieep)y.s«ning -f - ^" 6™ butfte inner layers of the outer {orin a gelatiirous outer layers may become so i orcranisms are bound together covering hy which, in many cases. knorm Is coojinrr. “^h" in r;-or;S'^vl.iiet in'^the,- crraes it is present