NJ^VUS. 583 rpp‘;Sn s. us 5..^ ^ rr.'w- to means healthy tissacs of«.. or ligatures. The the enclosure of the “‘ir simplicity and the aToulanoe advantages of the method “‘O f jo it^single-handed, and of all risk of otseTan a“teletic. Vhere he can in many cases ^'jthout ^ undoubtedly inferior to eaxcision, secure proper f i,, unusual circu^tances. Care must and should on y ® P , whole of the nffivus in the loop or loops, K'tr TdbeS liSu^aspotMe; strong aseptic silk shoul tehteh should to ‘“ti “ 4rdLd aseptic and dressed wUh the usual be used, and tne pai l. uc „,.Lrpnt esnnnuration. In no case isisiafes o-nrl lihprates hvdro"en : if this action be too intense, a wid Ind deep slough resufts. “ihe mildest action is obtained by inserting “positi^l” needles only, and having the to the skin near by ; if a more intense action is desmed, the needles passed into the mevus are connected with both poles of the battery A -ood plan is to have all the needles but one “ positive. Tbe best current to employ is such as is developed from a battery of o to 10 Leclanchd cells, and to continue it for 15 to 20 minutes ; or cuiren of 100 milliampferes may be passed for d minutes, and then the position of the needles changed. _ la A slow action is to be preferred to a rapid. The opeiation is painful and necessitates an amesthetic, but the pain ceases immediately the current is broken. Small nsevi may be cured at one but for njEvi of any size, repeated operations are necessary. Entirely subcutaneous nsevi may be cured without leaving any scar ; but najvi involving the skin can only be cured by destroying the vascular tissue and replacing it by scar, this scar is, however, very little conspicuous. A certain amount of shock is produced when the current is closed; and in operating upon the head, especially in infants, great care must be taken to turn on the current gradual y. Port wine stains are treated by flat metal electrodes connected with the negative pole, which are applied to the discoloured skin and a current of 40 to 50 milliamperes is used, until a soapy debris collects under the plate from the caustic action of the soda set fi'ee,