685 SUTURE OF NERVES. sensations. The point of a pencil is as good as anything for testing the sense of touch and the surgeon should notice not only whether the patient can feel, but whether he can also correctly localise his sensations. But whilst the alteration in sensation and the loss of muscular power constitute the most important immediate evidence of severe injury, at a later period the diagnosis is aided by the development of the various trophic lesions Avhich have been already described ; and tlie wasted muscles, the contracted joints, the shiny and stretched skin, and the coldness of the j)aralysed parts, all point unmistak.ably to the injury that has been sustained. Union after section of a nerve.—If the recently severed ends of a nerve be placed and maintained in apposition, they will unite. It is probable tliat in a few exceptional cases this union may occur without any preceding degeneration of the distal end, such as has already been described, but it is quite certain that this is not usually the case and that, even if the cut end.s are maintained in contact, the lower end degenerates before regeneration and repair result. The union is ultimately brought about by a development of new axis cylinders from the nuclei of the sheath of Schwann in both the proximal and peripheral ends, and, subsequent to the for- mation of these, there is developed a new myelin sheath. The development of this new nerve tissue requires a great length of time, and may extend over a pei’iod of from six to twelve months before material improvement is demonstrable, and sometimes requires a year or two for its completion. Treatment of a divided nerve. Primary siiture.—In all cases of recent section of a nerve trunk the cut surfaces should be approximated by suture. On account of the elasticity of the nerves, there is liable to be much separation of the cut ends, and it is often necessary to enlarge the wound in order to bring them into view. If much tearing or bruising has been sustained, it is well to refresh the cut sui faces j and it is of the utmost importance in such cases to take every precaution to render the wound aseptic and to prevent suppuration. Sutures should always be of some substance which is capable of undergoing absorption, because such materials as silk or horse-hair remaining in the nerve trunk are liable to keep up con- ^ant pressure on the surrounding tubules, and to cause severe pain. The best material is, probably, kangaroo tendon, but fine chromic- ised catgut is very efficient. Small needles should be used and the sutures should be passed right across the nerve, so as to include its sheath. _ Two such sutures passed at right angles to each other, about one- eighth of an inch from the cut surfaces, will generally suffice to brin<^ he ends into good apposition. If it appear necessary, one or two more fine sutures may be passed, so as to draw the sheath together a some place where it gapes, but no more sutures than are necessary 0 0 tain good apposition should be employed, as they only tend to split up the cut ends. Tlie sutures should only be tied tight enough