niBEOT GANGBENE. 135 powder. The best, I believe, is powdered boracic acid, which is quite soft, and being to a certain extent antiseptic, prevents the decomposition of any fluids whicli may accumulate there, and, as a matter of fact, it is the decomposition of the fluid rather than its mere presence wliich is of serious import as a factor in the pro- duction of bed-sore. Then, of course, the nurse must be careful that the sheet under the patient is absolutely smooth, that there are no wrinkles or turns of bandage passing over the part which is subjected to pressure. Some prefer, instead of the ^ alcohol and powder, a stimulating ointment, more especially an ointment consisting of equal parts of balsam of Peru and resin ointment, which is both stimulating and antiseptic ; but I believe what I have already described is the best method, more especially as it enables one to see the condition of the part at any time. When a bed-sore has once formed, the reduction or avoidance of the pressure over the part, and the other measures just described, should be most carefully seen to, and every efibrt should be made to keep the surface as aseptic as possible. Prom the situation of these bed-sores there is but little chance of converting the slough into a dry one, and, therefore, I should m this instance depart from the general rule which I have laid down as to applications to parts which are becoming gangi’enous, namely, to avoid oily substances, and employ as a dressing either balsam of Peru or, what is perhaps more convenient in many ways, eucalyptus ointment. Where a bed- sore has once formed, it is perhaps best to use a circular water- or air-piUow in preference to a square water-piUow, because, by means of the circular pillow, pressure over the bed-sore is absolutely avoided. (c) Gangrene due to acute inflainiuation. — Another cause of direct gangrene is acute inflammation. There are certain cases where the result of an acute inflammation is the death of the part which is the seat of the inflammation, apart from the killing of the tissue by the poisons of the micro-organisms which are producing it. This is a distinction that must be carefully made. In certain cases organisms growing in the tissues directly kill the tissue in which they are growing, essentially by virtue of their poisonous products, and this is the way in which certain organisms produce the specific infective forms of gangrene. In other cases, however, while the organisms produce an acute in- flammation, they do not directly destroy the vitality of the tissues; but the latter die as the result of the acuteness of the inflammatory changes, more especially as the result of the extensive occurrence of stasis, or of excessive exudation pressing on the vessels from outside and preventing the circulation through them. This form of gangrene, resulting from arrest of the circulation in consequence of a violent inflammation, occurs especially when dense tissues are attacked, and the best examples of it are boils and carbuncles in the skin and death of portions of bone where the bone and periosteum have become acutely inflamed. In the latter case the tjqpe of