SEGONDABY SYPHILIS. 397 leavin" healthy skin in the centre, whilst spreading at the edge, and many of the later syphilides show a serpiginous tendency. (See Fig. 87.) , 1 \ 1 c The peculiar reddish-brown (copper or lean ham) colour ot many syphilides has already been alluded to. It is most pronounced when the eruption has existed for some few weeks. In a few cases the amount of pigmentation is excessive, and may last for a very long time. The early syphilides usually disappear without leaving any trace of their existence, but the later ones—such as rupia, the syphilitic ecthyma, and the lupoid syphilide—generally heal by scarring. Whilst too much importance must not be attached to the character of scars in deciding that they are the remains of syphilis, it may be stated that such scars are commonly circular, thin, supple, and white (often suggesting tissue paper), with sometimes a ring of pigment around them, and wliolly free from the hypertrophic tags of skin often met with close to scars of healed strumous or tubercular ulcers. In describing the syphilitic eruptions, no mention has yet been made of a rather peculiar form—the papulosquamous syphilide of the palmar and plantar aspects of hands and feet. This somewhat resembles, and is often termed, a psoriasis, and whilst the papules or nodules which first develop in these positions do not differ from those met with on other parts of the body, the thick overlying epidermis, which becomes loosened and remains partly detached for long in large rounded flakes, gives it a peculiar appearance. The hands alone or the feet may be symmetrically attacked, but in the later stages of syphilis the disease may be confined to one hand or foot. In many cases the eruption is extremely difficult to cure, and may persist long after all other symptoms of constitutional infection have disappeared. Through the coalescence of several patches, the whole inferior aspect of foot or hand may become involved, the margin of the disease having a slightly raised and infiltrated edge. General sjnnptoms.—Shortly before, or at the same time as the outbreak of the early cutaneous eruption, the patient’s general health suffers in a considerable number of cases. He complains of aching pains in the long bones, the joints, and the head. Sometimes there is lumbar pain, general lassitude, or distinct febrile disorder of a mild type. About every third case of secondary syphilis has dis- tinct nocturnal elevation of temperature for a few days (Fournier), accompanied by increased pulse-rate, malaise, etc. Several observers have proved that the proportion of red corpuscles in the blood is diminished in marked cases of secondary syphilis, to be increased again after mercury has been given for a time. Decided ansemia is, however, not very common, and is usually met with in women, who also present such symptoms as palpitation of the heart and shortness of breath more often than men during the secondary stage. It is worthy of note that occasionally the “syphilitic fever” takes on an intermittent type, and is then liable to be mistaken for ague, or a continuous rise of temperature lasting for several weeks may give