NEGBOSIS. 927 lined with granulations such as usually beset the wall of an abscess. Treatment.—This is the same as that used for abscesses in general—evacuation through the most dependent part. When the suppuration is due to a carious tooth, extraction of the tooth and the enlargement of its aperture of communication with the antrum will afford good drainage. It may be necessary from time to time irrigate the when the discharges are offensive and abundant, to cavity with some mild antiseptic solution. When the teeth are sound the cavity may be perforated with a bone-drill through the canine fossa, and drainage, assisted with free irrigation, resorted to. As soon as free drainage is established, many cases do well and rapidly close ; in others, a sinus persists for many months. In such it is well to make a thorough search for dead bone, pieces of teeth, and foreign bodies within the antrum. Diseases of the bone.—The jaws in common with other bones are liable to periostitis and necrosis. Acute periosteal abscess.—The most frequent cause of this affection is injury, and it is common as an extension of alveolar abscesses. Periosteal inflammation and abscess of the jaws are accompanied by the usual signs of periostitis, such as a local swelling attended with severe pain and swelling. General febrile symptoms are markedly manifest. _ Treatment.—Immediate incision into the inflamed and swollen tissues, made, whenever practicable, through the mucous membrane so as to avoid external scars ; the incision should extend quite down to the bone, or there will be great risk of necrosis and a troublesome smus ; all these complications may often be avoided by prompt and free incision. When the case has been allowed to run its own course and destroy the underlying bone, the sinus must be main- tamed until the necrosed bone separates. The sinus is then dilated or slit up and the dead bone removed. Aecrosis—This condition may follow injury, alveolar abscess, and syphilis, excessive use of mercury, irritation from the fumes of phosphorus, and tubercle. Extensive necrosis of the jaws occurs as a sequel to the acute exanthemata and typhoid fever. (See page 884 ) In cases where necrosis follows an alveolar abscess, the amount nweW limited, and in most cases involves as a sequel to Sav die'’ the greater part of the maxilla or mandible necrosed law i® profuse, and the necrosed jaw will be found quite loose, merely lod^-ed in a bao- nf muco-periosteum. It is a curious fact that when thi body, alvSlai nti+eif ^ i^e processes of the upper jaw necrose, although the peri osteum remains, new bone is not produced. On the other hand^the whole of tho body of the mandible and a large porSon o lfa rami have been destroyed, and a new lower jaw has bin Lmed byX permsteum, as the shaft of a long bone would be produTed Ynd 1