GONOBllEOEA. 440 The glans penis is their usual site in males, the labia in females—it is rare for them to invade the urethra. If they do not subside under the use of astringent powders (e.g. tannic or salicylic acid diluted with twice the bulk of zinc oxide, etc.) and sti’ict cleanliness, glacial acetic acid should be applied to each wart daily until they shrivel. In cases of exuberant warts it saves time to anaesthetise the patient, to excise the warts with scissors, and, if necessary, to apply the cautery to their bases, which bleed very freely. Warts in the urethra require the use of a sharp curette. 6. Bubo.—It is only in a very small proportion of cases of gonorrhoea that there is marked enlargement of the inguinal glands, but occasionally we see a glandular abscess due apparently to this cause alone {i.e. not complicated with soft chancre). Not infre- quently the glands are tender and slightly swollen during the first few days of the attack. 7. Peri-urethral abscess.—In connection with one of the glands opening into the fossa navicularis or the bulbous portion, with Cowper’s gland in. the male and Bartholin’s gland in the female, etc., a small painful swelling may form during an attack of gonor- rhoea. The farther back it is situated the more severe are the symptoms attending this peri-urethral inflammation, which forms a lump generally on the under surface of the male organ. If left alone, it may subside or may suppurate and open into the urethra; if it causes much pain and tension, etc., it is advisable to open the abscess by a small incision into its most prominent point. Unless situated behind a stricture, it rarely leads to extravasation of urine. 8. Gonorrhoeal ophthalmia.—If gonorrhoeal pus be con- veyed by the patient’s finger, handkerchief, etc., to the conjunctiva, a most dangerous form of ophthalmia is liable to occur. An itching and burning sensation will be followed in a day or two by conjunctival congestion and swelling of the lids, and by the third or fourth day the secretion will be freely purulent. The palpebral conjunctiva becomes soft and velvety and bleeds readily, that covering the globe may be raised into thick cedematous folds (chemosis), and when the lids are separated, a stream of yellow pus exudes or spurts out. Corneal ulcers (which tend to perforate into the anterior chamber), or even sloughing of the whole cornea may occur, and the danger of complete loss of vision is very great. Spasm of the lids is almost constant, and may so hinder treatment that division of the outer canthus with scissors may be necessary. The symptoms and the danger to vision are practically the same in cases in which adults have inoculated their eyes from the urethral pus, as in those cases of infants infected from the vagina during delivery, though, perhaps, the gravity increases slightly with the age of the patient. . i Treatment must be prompt and energetic. If one eye alone be infected, the other should be protected by a Bullers shield (a watch- glass secured between two circles of strapping) worn night and day, or by an antiseptic pad and bandage frequently changed. Ihe hds