Q 2 or ADENOMA. ■t83 3. Adenoma. An adenoma may be defined as a tumour constructed upon the type of, and growing in connection with, a secreting gland, but difl'erino' from it in being impotent to produce the secretion peculiar to the gland it mimics (Fig. 126). Occasionally adenomata produce a perverted secretion, especially the rectal, uterine, and prostatic species. As regards seat, adenomata occur as encapsuled tumours in such glands as the mamma, parotid, thyroid, and liver. In the mucous membrane of the rectum, intestine, and uterus they are pedunculated. A single adenoma may be present, but not infrequently two or more exist in the same gland. In the case of the intestine, a score or more may be present in the same individual. In size they vary greatly. Some are no larger than peas, whereas in certain situations—e.g. the mamma—an adenoma will occasionally attain to the dimensions of a man’s head, and in the case of the ovary, an adenoma weighing forty pounds is no rarity; in such the acini are usually distended with fluid. The efect of adenomata depends mainly upon the situations in which they grow. The following statements are true for all;— When completely removed there is no fear of recurrence; they do not infect neighbouring lymph glands, nor give rise to secondary deposits. When an adenoma causes death, it is in consequence of mechanical complications, depending on the situation and size of the tumour. Although the distinguishing structural ijeculiarity of an adenoma is the presence of epithelium disposed as in a seci'eting gland, the connective tissue (stroma) entering into its composition must also be taken into account. In many adenomata the epithelial element is the most conspicuous; in others the connective tissue is out of all proportion to the epithelium, and occasionally preponderates to such a degree that the tumour from some writers receives the misleading name of “ adeno-sarcoma.” When the epithelium-lined spaces are distended with fluid, the tumour is spoken of as a “ cystic adenoma ” and sometimes as an “ adenocele.” The s/)ecies of adenomata are determined by the glands in which they arise. The chief species are:—Mammary, sebaceous, thyroid, pituitary, prostatic, parotid, hepatic, renal, ovarian, testicular* gastric, intestinal, Fallopian, uterine. The peculiar pathological and clinical features of each species of adenoma will be described in the Article devoted to the particular organ in which it arises. Very little is known as to the cause of adenomata, but there is good reason to believe that many of them arise in detached and isolated portions of secreting glands, to which the name “rests” has been applied. Rests have been detected in connection with the mamma, pancreas, liver, parotid, and thyroid glands; and there can re no doubt that, with the increased attention now being devoted to this matter, many more examples will come to light. Perhaps the