651 SUBCLAVIAN ANEURYSM. larger, and bulge forwards the sterno-mastoid muscle ; in otlier cases it grows downwards and backwards towards the pleura, which then becomes thickened and adherent to the lung, and the lung may be incorporated in the sac of the aneurysm. The radial pulse on the same side is weakened and delayed ; there is often oedema of the arm, and usually distension of tlie external jugular vein, and the venous obstruction may even cause gangrene of the arm. From pressure upon the brachial plexus the patient may suffer from pain down the arm, numbness, or muscular weakness, and pressure on the phrenic nerve may cause spasm or paralysis of the diaphragm. The aneu- lysm may remain stationary or progress but slowly; in many cases spontaneous cure has been accomplished; in other cases steady enlargement ending in rupture of the sac occurs. The condition most likely to be mistaken for subclavian aneurysm is that in which the artery is raised over a cervical rib; a Little care will at once guard against this error. 'I'reatiiicnt.—The surgical treatment of subclavian aneurysm is very unsatisfactory. In all cases rest and constitutional treatment should be well and fully tried, and to these means, careful direct pressure upon the sac may be added. If these measures fail, the question of treatment is one of great gravity. Where there is room on the proximal side of the aneurysm for compression of the arteiy that should be first employed, and if it fails the artery may be ligatured in its second or the commencement of its third part. Very often this is impossible. Ligature of the first part of the artery has never been successful and should not be practised. Ligature of the innominate artery has been recovered from in only two instances out of eighteen operations; but with the practice of aseptic surgery, and the use of a ligature so applied as not to lacerate any of the arterial wall, better results may be hoped for. In any case, howeveiv this operation must be attended with grave danger, owing to the depth and important relations of the artery. Distal ligature of the artery has never succeeded, but combined with amputation at the shoulder joint, may be successful. By removing the limb, the ^™o™t of blood passing through the subclavian artery is greatly diminished, and the pressure in the artery is lowered; and this fact, together with the proliferation of the intima that results from it, greatly favours the consolidation of the aneurysm and obliteration of the artery. Tlie other means that have been employed are manipu- lation of the sac and electrolysis, each of which has attained a limited success. The matter may be summed up by saying that where active surgical measures are called for, if possible a ligature should be placed on the cardiac side of the aneurysm, but if from any cause this IS impossible, or imperils the sac, or fails, the arm should be amputated at the shoulder joint, the vessel being ligatured as hicrh up as practicable, as the first step of the operation. Aneurysm of the vertebral artery in the neck is always traumatic in origin. The artery may be tied just before it enters the trans- verse proces^ of the sixth cervical vertebra, or the sac may be laid V 2