109‘J KNEE JOINT DISEASE. ,j J * 2 toucii, and on movement. There will also be a general rise of the body temperature in all probability. Objectively, there will be swell- ing and possibly redness, and a chai’acteristic attitude. The swelling will be due to two causes: first to elfusion of synovium into the cavity, and next, in severe cases, to a certain amount of cedema of the soft parts surrounding the joint. It will be most noticed above and below the patella at either side, and where there is much effusion, the patella may be raised from the anterior surface of the condyles, and “ float ” as it is said. When pressed upon it can be made to touch the femur again, but immediately rises owing to the disten- sion of the capsule. Fluctuation may be also felt from one part of the capsule to the other. The redness and oedema in ordinary cases are but slight; but where suppuration is present, they are a marked feature. The limb is always more or less flexed in acute synovitis of the knee, and can only be stx'aightened with difficulty by the patient or surgeon. This position is assumed in order to relax the posterior parts of the capsule, which with the limb extended is tightly stretched, and in this state more tender than if relaxed. The patient will resist all attempts to move the joint, but if placed under chloroform the movements will be free and extension perfect It is plainly, then, a position assumed to relieve tension and pain, and is no deformity in the usual sense of the word. The diag'iiosis of this affection, as a rule, presents no difficulties. The history and the rapid onset with the symptoms of acute in- flammation serve to distinguish it from all other swellings except one : this is luematoma or hsemarthrus of the joint (page 1034). Some- times, owing to a slight blow or strain of the knee, some small vessel in the interior of the joint gives way, and the cavity rapidly Alls up with blood. Here the general appearance of the joint very much resembles that seen with synovitis. The pouches above and below the patella on either side are distended with fluid, and fluctuate, and the latter bone “ floats ; ” the knee is slightly flexed, and is, perhaps, a little tender. But the condition can usually be distinguished from synovitis, by accurately noting the time at which the swelling sets in. With hsemarthrus the effusion takes place immediately on re- ceipt of the injury, and the capsule will be tense within an hour of its occurrence. Synovial effusion does not set in, as a rule, for some hours after the exciting cause has commenced to operate. Again, there will be little or no heat in the joint in the case of the blood effusion and in general fever, while in synovitis the joint will feel hot to the patient and to the siu-geon’s hand, and the body heat will be increased. In some cases, of course, the injury which gave rise to the hmmarthrus will also set up synovitis; l)ut in that case, the symptoms of inflammation will not commence until some time after the swelling of the blood elfu.sion has been well established. The freatiuent. of simple acute synovitis of the knee has the same general princii)les as its basis as in dealing with acute in- flammation anywhere else. General vascular tension is relieved bv