ANTHRAX. 313 has been conveyed to a surgical wound by the use of catgut prepared from the intestine of an infected sheep. Symptoms.—The first sign of malignant pustule, when no appre- ciable wound exists, is a dark spot resembling the sting of an insect, often surrounding a hair fol- licle. The papule enlarges, and a vesicle containing yel- lowish fluid forms, often changing its colour to red or a bluish-red colour. A similar papule bearing a vesicle may develop at the site of any small abrasion which has served as a point for infection. The appearance of the vesicle is heralded by burning pain, often leading the patient to scratch and rub the vesicle, thereby laying bare a raw red surface, from which serous fluid is exuded. A dry scab now forms on the surface, the edges of the papule enlarge and become much indurated, a hypersemic and oedematous areola developing around it. A second ring of vesicles may develop around the centre of the papule, the centre mean- while becomes dark from the extravasation of blood, and gradually dries and sinks below the level of the surrounding areola (Fig. 54). The process may con- tinue in this manner till the carbuncle reaches a considerable size, the same swelling and oedema preceding its enlargement. At the same time, the poison is taken up by the lymphatics, the glands enlarge ; and if a limb be affected, the whole extent may become swollen and oedematous. The appearance of the oedematous part varies in different regions: thus in the eyelid a semi-transparent bladder-like swelling is not uncommon, while the lips become thickened and rigid, the normal folds of the face being obliterated. Malignant pustules of the neck offer a special danger in the spread of the oedema to the larynx, tongue, and floor of the mouth. Of 1,077 cases collected by W. Koch, 490 affected the head and face, 45 the neck, and 370 the upper extremity. In some instances the process may closely re- semble an ordinary cellulitis, highly oedematous, but without the development of vesicles. For a period of about two days—in fact, prior to the entrance of the bacilli and their products in any large amount into the general Fig. 54.—Malig^iant Pustule of Face. The en- largement of the submaxillary gluuds and the surrounding oadema are well shown.