233 CONTUSIONS. blood may not coagulate properly, or, if it does, may not be SmpleSly organised, the result being that around the exterior a kver Srous tissue is formed, in the interior of which is clear SL in other words, we have a blood cyst .vlnch may remain Indefiidtely, or even may become inflamed and suppurate. As a ;ile, subcutaneous bruises do not suppurate, unless in drunkards or unhea i^y P —As to the characters of a contusion, the patient generally suff-ers a good deal of pain in the first instance from the bruisino- of the nerves, which, however, passes oflf in the course of twentyJour hours. The part may become swollen even to a very lai-e extent, the swelling being due partly to hsemorrhage from the° torn vessels and partly to oedema from the early stages of inflammation which occur around the contused parts. In the course of a few hours, if the contusion be superficial, the blood stains the skin, and we have a dark colour of the part; but very shortly the blood pigment undergoes alterations, so that the skin changes from a black to a blue or yeUowish colour before it ultimately regams its normal appearance. As the result of the osdematous concfition of the tissues this blood pigment is also carried for a considerable distance through them, and thus the yellow and green stam is •Generally much more extensive than the original seat of injury, and is usually more marked towards the most dependent parts, owing to the gravitation of the oedematous fluid towards these parts. Where much blood has been poured out we have the condition known as hsematoma, and where a blood cyst is about to form we find around the margin of the collection of blood a hard rim, while the interior is quite soft. ^Vhen these hsematomata are situated on the skull this peculiar condition has often given rise to the mistaken view that there was a fracture of the skull with depression, because the finger in passing over the swelling feels the hard edge of what is apparently the bone, and then inside that edge passes much deeper, apparently into a cavity. This condition is more especially evident where the bruise has affected the periosteum, and where, therefore, the blood is caught in the meshes of the periosteum and does not diffuse itself so readily as in an ordinary wound. Treatment.—As regards the treatment of contusion, the most rapid method of getting rid of the effused blood is by gentle massage, carried on in the first instance very lightly and only for a few minutes, but gradually increasing both in time and in vigour as absorption goes on. In such circumstances the parts will generally be well in the course of a week or ten days. Of course, this treatment is not necessary unless in large contusions, or where the contusion affects parts—more especially joints—where stiffness may subsequently result if they be kept too long at rest. In other circumstances the best treatment is in the first instance the employment of cold, with the view of checking the subcutaneous hemorrhage, and afterwards rest and pressure with a mass of cotton-wool and a bandage, so as to lead to absoi’ption. Formerly one was told not to interfere by operation