ANEURYSM. 630 Such a wound may be produced in fractures by a fragment of bone tearing the artery; the ruptures are caused by contusions, strains, and sometimes in dislocations, either by the displacement of the bone or by the surgeon’s efforts in reducing it. (2) An oblique or valvular woimd involving an artery.—These are most often stab-wounds, or wounds with broken glass. The wound may be so oblique that the blood from the first collects around the artery instead of all escaping externally. But more often the dressing that is put on seals up the outer wound or closes the track from the wounded vessel outwards, without occluding the vessel, and the blood which escapes from it accumulates around the artery. (3) Punctured and other incomplete wounds of arteries.—We have seen (page 500) that a wound of an artery is only soundly and securely healed when the lumen of the vessel is obliterated; if the current through the artery continues, it either prevents the formation of clot, or displaces any clot that has sealed the wound, or prevents its organisation into a firm unyielding cicatrix. We have seen that the primary haemorrhage from such an injury may be arrested spontaneously or by surgical means, and yet unless permanent occlusion of the artery is obtained, its healing does not take place, and an aneurysm forms. In an incomplete division of an artery this obliteration can only be certainly obtained by completing the division or by double ligature. Hence it is that the nature of the injury of the artery is a cause, in this instance, of traumatic aneurysm. (4) An artificial valvular wound of an artery due to the im- proper application of pressure.—Many cases of deep ^wounds of arteries can be so treated as to lead to the formation of an aneurysm. Whenever healing of the overlying soft structures occurs without cicatrisation of a divided artery, this result must follow. So, even in a case of complete division of a vessel, if the soft parts are approximated, and such a dressing applied that they heal up under it, while the pressure is only sufficient to limit but not to arrest the flow of blood from the artery beneath, when the external wound heals an aneurysm is found beneath the scar. The reader is referred to what we have already said on this point in speaking of the treat- ment of wounded arteries by pressure (page 514). Varieties.—The varieties of traumatic aneurysm—including the arterio-venous, which we deal with separately—depend entirely upon the freedom with which the blood escapes from the wounded artery. If the internal haemorrhage is rapid and profuse, and the blood finds its way along the planes of cellular tissue unhindered by firm clot or tense resistant fasciae, forming a huge extravasation, the condition is better spoken of as a ruptured artery; such a condition is only met with in subcutaneous rupture of an artery. More commonly the blood, as it escapes from the artery and infiltrates the soft tissues, forms a cavity round the artery, which is imperfectly limited by clotted blood—Avhich becomes firm and fibrinous or “ laminated ” by the pressure to which it is subjected—and by the tension of the