439 COMPLICATIONS. fcheless, a persistent gleet, particularly if with it the patient notices a little trouble in micturition or lumbar aching, should always make the surgeon suspect the development of a stricture. In such a case a full-sized bougie (metal or flexible) should be passed with the utmost gentleness and care, for nothing is easier than for the surgeon, when he encounters resistance due to muscular spasm, to mistake this for an organic stricture. A preliminary injection of cocaine is here often of use. Should a commencing stricture be found, the bougie should be passed at regular intervals of a few days for a considerable time, a measure to be afterwards continued by the patient Some recom- mend the frequent passage of a large bougie in every case of gleet— a plan open to abuse and often harmful alike to the patient’s purse and urethra. A considerable number of complications of gonorrhoea remain to be noticed. 4. Balanitis, etc.—The delicate skin lining the inner surface of the prepuce and covering the glans penis is apt to become inflamed; and if the preputial orifice is narrow, phimosis "is very likely to occur, owing to cedematous swelling of the prepuce. The oedema may further involve the skin of the penis up to its root, and sometimes it is of the nature of a lymphangitis. In such cases rest in bed, if possible, the continuous application of evaporating lead and spirit lotion, or of ice compresses, with the very frequent injection under the foreskin of cleansing or weak astringent lotions, are to be employed. There is considerable risk of producing paraphimosis, if the inflamed foreskin be drawn back over the glans, the latter then becoming engorged with blood, owing to the constricting ring of prepuce. Actual gangrene of the glans is very rare from paraphimosis, since ulceration of the con- stricting part will generally relieve the strangulation; but to relieve the pain it is nearly always advisable to divide the constriction (in the middle line of the dorsum), and if the patient will consent to a circumcision as well, this measure will often hasten complete recovery. Phimosis with free purulent discharge may be due to gonorrhoea alone, but the jjresence of a concealed chancre should always be suspected, and the induration due to it can often be detected through the inflamed prepuce. Decided glandular enlargement in the groin makes it very probable that a sore is present, and not simple gonorrhoea or balanitis. Small abrasions or superficial ulcers of the glans are often met with in gononfioea, and heal readily under treatment by cleanliness and the use of a drying powder (e.g. of zinc oxide and calomel or boracic acid and iodoform). Relapsing hei’pes is another occasional resiilt^ of gonorrhoea and balanitis, requiring similar measures and sometimes circumcision. 5. Warts.—In both sexes the growth of soft warts, sometimes to an extraordinary extent, is liable to result from the long-continued irritation of purulent discharge from the genitals, though there is no reason to think that they depend directly upon the gonococcus.