799 VICIOUS UNION. should be included under sarcomata. A good many cases of sarcoma, occurring in moi’e or less close relation to a fracture, have been re- corded by Paget, Banvell, Ci-ipps, Folker, and others. Not strictly connected with callus is the osteoma Jractmxc of Virchow. A piece of bone, generally a growing epiphysis (head of femur or of humerus, tuber ischii), has been broken off, and has grown into a consider- able mass, sometimes requiring removal. After fracture of the patella, similar grovf'th of a fragment has several times been noticed. Vicious union.—Vicioiis union, or union with marked displace- ment, may be due either to non-reduction of the primary or to the occurrence of secondary displacement. It may be the result of ignor- ance or neglect on the part of the surgeon, and heavy damages for malpractice have often been awarded in these cases. But frequently the surgeon is in no way to blame. Excessive, early and long- lasting swelling or thick fleshy covering may prevent the discovery of the real nature of an injury. The fragment separated, say from the head of a radius, may be small and inaccessible, or it may be impossible for the fingers to seize, or for any apparatus to control a fragment, though large, of the pelvis, malar, or sternum. To leave unreduced deformity due to impaction may be the best treatment in certain cases. A bone may be so crushed that it is impossible to restore its form. A long bone may be so comminuted that, extended to its proper length its fragments would not touch. Irregularity of line of fracture may prevent accurate fitting together of fragments. Wounds and sores may render the control of a part extremely difficult; as also may disobedience, delirium tremens, or mania. In many cases vicious union is of little consequence, in others it greatly unpairs the value of a limb—e.g. union of a femur with great shortening or marked rotation out of its lower end into the position shown in Eig. 282, persistent displacement of the foot (Fig. 231), angular union or synostosis of the fore-arm bones. Treatment.—The only radical treatment of vicious union is that by refracture and resetting. When seen early, and especially in the young, the hands often suffice to straighten a bent bone. Later, it becomes a question whether an attempt to produce a subcutaneous fracture with an osteoclast shall be made, or whether the bone shall be divided through an open wound with mallet and chisel or saw. The osteoclast (of which there are many forms) seems to have been used of late more frequently than formerly, the fear that it would cause sloughing of soft parts and break the bone at some improper point having only slight foundation. At least, in tolerably recent cases (six to twelve months) of angular and rotatory deformity it may be used. But for complicated deformities—displacements of the foot at the ankle (Figs. 231, 232), synostosis or angular union of bones, ill-united fragments of joint ends, and so forth --the knife, chisel, and mallet must be used. It is impossible to describe such operations, they must be planned for each case. They are always difficult, and depend upon asepsis for their success, if not for their justifiability. The bones should be fixed in their new