889 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF BONE. however, reaches to any considerable size, and is unaccompanied by the special signs of new growth which will be described under Tumours of Bone. Treatment.—This should consist in applying the trephine to the centre of the bony swelling. In this way the diagnosis may be confirmed, and the opening then enlarged for the removal of the sequesti-ura. If, on the other hand, the case prove to be one of new growth, amputation or re-section may be necessary. (See Tumours of Bone, page 907.) TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF BONE. Patholog’y.—MiHary tuberculosis of bone is extremely rare, and need not be considered here, as it is an accompaniment only of a general tuberculosis. Tubercle in a localised form attacks the cancellous tissue of bone, such as the small bones of the carpus and tarsus, the phalanges, the bodies of the vertebras, and the ends of the long bones. In the latter position it enters largely into the causation of Joint Diseases, and will be described in the article devoted to that subject. Sub- articular caries was the former designation of this particular variety of tuberculous osteitis. On either side of the epiphysial line of a growing bone it is also fairly common. In the hip it must almost of necessity involve the joint if it reaches the surface of the bone, as the epiphysial line is within the capsule. In other bones, however, the disease may open externally without involving the joint, or may creep down the shaft and cause a more or less diflTused tuberculous osteomyelitis. Tubercle in bone commences as a rarefying osteitis by enlarge- ment of the Haversian canals, thickening of the periosteum, and the development of a granulation tissue which shows the characteristic structure of the tuberculous disease. Two or more patches of varying sizes may exist within a short distance of each other, and subse- quently coalesce; or there may be only one such small area of tuber- culous growth. The changes that then ensue are very variable, and have led to the use of such terms as caries fungosa, caries sicca, caries necrotica—names which indicate the different terminations of this morbid process. The tuberculous deposit is surrounded by an area of inflammation, which at flrst shows itself in the form of rarefying osteitis. The granulation tissue occupying the spaces resulting from the absorbed trabeculae may itself be invaded by tubercle, and undergo the same change as in the first deposit; or, for a time, it may partially organise and produce sclerosis of bone. A small portion of this may again be encircled by rarefying osteitis and tubercular infiltration, and being cut oflf from the circulation, may become a tuberculous sequestrum. Caseation and softening of the tuberculous deposit occur in the central part, whilst these changes are taking ]ilace in the periphery. As the jn-ocess extends the inflamed bone becomes tuberculous, and again softens till the surface of the bone is reached