STASIS. 65 along the blood-vessels. On watching these pigment cells, it will be seen that their protoplasm is in constant motion. At one time the protoplasm containing pigment granules has retreated towards the centre of the cell and formed a ball; in this condition the frog is light in colour. At another time the protoplasm will be seen rush- ing out from the centre into numerous ramifications of the cells, which were previously invisible, till the whole tissue becomes a net- work of this cell protoplasm containing the pigment granules; in this state the frog becomes dark. This action of the protojjlasm of the cells seems to be a reflex phenomenon in connection with the access of light to the frog’s eye. Bring the frog into a bright room, and at once the protoplasm of the pigment cells begins to retreat towards the centre of the cell and the frog becomes light. Shut out the light from the frog’s eyes, and again the pigment- bearing protoplasm commences to hurry out from the centre of the ceU into the various branches, and the frog becomes dark in tint. If the frog be killed the pigment always becomes concentrated towards the centre of the cells. Now, if we take the frog into a light room and apply mustard to the frog’s web while the pigment is in a state of concentration, and then either put it into a dark room or shut out the Light from its eyes, it will be found that the pigment has become diffused over the whole of the body with the exception of the inflamed area, over which it I’emains in the same condition as it was when the irritant was ap- plied. If, on the other hand, the irritant be applied while the frog is of dai’k colour, and the animal be afterwards brought into a light room, the pigment throughout the body becomes concentrated, while it remains diflused in the irritated area. If the infitant be removed recovery gradually takes place; the pigment begins to move in the cells in the affected area, more sluggishly it is true than elsewhere, but ulti- mately recovery becomes complete. Hence the condition as regards the pigment cells is that of a temporary suspension of their function— in other words, a tem'porary paralysis; and no doubt this condition of temporary paralysis is not limited to the pigment cells, but affects all the other fixed cells in the same area. Hence the most probable theory as regards the dilatation of the vessels in the early stage of inflammation is that at the focus of the inflammation it results from the direct paralysing action of the irritant. This, however, does not completely explain the phenomenon, because this dilatation of the blood- ves.sels is not limited to the focus of the inflammation; there is a similar condition extending for a considerable area around, an area greater than that directly affected by the irritant itself. This secondary dilatation of the blood-vessels is no doubt a rejlex phenovienon, and hence the explanation of the dilatation of the vessels is two-fold, namely, in part direct paralysis as the result of the action of the irritant on the vessel wall, and, in part, a reflex paralysis through 110 nervous sy.stem. I need not go into the various other theories which have been put forward. The stasis, also, may bo explained in the same manner. It