HYDATID CYSTS. 323 Besides brood capsules and scolices, the parent cyst produces daught&r cysts, from which, again, cysts may develop for several "derations, even to reach the number of thousands (echinococcus colonies). The mode of formation of daughter cysts may be endo- genous or exogenous. Endogenous cysts, the commoner form, are the result of transformation of scolices or brood capsules; exogenous cysts are formed by the hernia-like protrusion of pouches from the paren- chymatous through the cuticular layer of the cyst wall. Such cysts may lose all continuity with the parent cyst lying within the ad- ventitious capsule. Such is the common condition of multiple hydatid cysts in bones; and the same mode of development is common in the mesentery. , . n i -xi i. Besides solid elements, the cysts contain fluid, with somewhat special characters. Hydatid fluid is clear, limpid, colourless, or sh<^htly opalescent, of low specific gravity (1,004 to 1,015) normally contains chloride of sodium and no albumen, and usually scolices or booklets. If the hydatid has been inflamed or is dead, albumen is present in greater or less amount (Heller), Succinic acid, in com- bination with sodium or calcium (Heintz), has been frequently found a constituent; also sugar, leucin, and tyrosin in hepatic cysts, and uric and oxalic acids in renal. In old hydatids the fluid may be turbid and blood-stained, or actually purulent and foetid. Another form of hydatid—the muUilocula/r—has been described by "Virchow; here no mother cyst is demonstrable, but numerous vesicles, from the size of a pea downwards, are embedded in gelatinous substance and enclosed in fibrous trabeculae. The vesicles are often shrunken and mostly sterile, although some booklets are always to be found. This form is most frequently met with in the Uver and is rare. The size attained by individual cysts depends in great measure on their surroundings; when these latter are readily compressible, the cysts may attain an enormous size. When the cysts are so situated as not to occasion dangerous pressure effects, they may exist for an indefinite time. The general tendency, however, is towards death of the parasite; when this occurs, the fluid may become absorbed, the cyst waU falls in, the adventitious capsule contracts, and spontaneous cure is effected. After this process an aggregation of soft shrunken cysts, or a sobd caseous mass, liable to more or less calcareous degeneration, may represent the, original colony. In other cases—especially in the abdominal cavity—suppura- tion may occur. The most dangerous termination, due usually to the pressure exerted by the accumulation of fluid and daughter cysts, is rupture ; in the abdomen this may lead to acute infiamma- tion or signs of collapse and death, or, in the lung, the sudden accumulation of fluid in the air-tubes may suffocate the patient. The commonest seat of this disease is the liver, then the lungs and kidneys ; cysts may, however, occur in any organ of the body, or in the connective tissue throughout. The common selection of the liver, no doubt, depends on the ease with whicli the parasite L 2