300 SUROIOAL DISEASES DUE TO MIOROBIG INFECTION. Tho poison is a transparent, yellowish, somewhat sticky fluid, of faintly acid reaction when fresh, and containing water, albumen, fat, salts, and a peculiar poison, possibly of the nature of the album’oses’ It acts more powerfully on small than on large animals, and children are more dangerously afl^ected than adults. Bites implicating large veins are followed by the most rapid and severe symptoms. The morbid lesions found in fatal cases are—congestion of the lungs and brain probably due to the difiiculty in respiration, and in some snake bites local blood extravasations and congestion of the internal organs evidenced during life by vomiting of blood and passage of blood with the urine or faeces are special features. The blood is frequently incoagulable. Symptoms.—Either at once, or after a few hours, the patient becomes anxious, faint, breathes with difficulty, experiences nausea, or vomits, in the slighter cases these symptoms may pass oft". In severe cases, a cold clammy sweat breaks out, the pupils dilate, motor functions are more or less completely abrogated, delirium supervenes, followed by coma, and the patient dies of syncope, from cessation of the respiratory movements, or from collapse. The local effects of the poison are mainly the production of intense hvpersemia of the subcutaneous connective tissue, accompanied by pinkish oedema often following the course of the efferent blood-vessels, and more or less extensive blood extravasation (Wall). Locally, the two openings with ecchymosed margins are found; there is severe pain and swelling, at first limited, but rapidly extend- ing. When the bite is severe, and a large dose of the poison has been introduced, the part falls in temperature, and spots of ecchy- mosis, or more or less extensive gangrene, appear. In 94 per cent, of all cases the bites are found on the extremities; in some snakes, notably the cobra, the fang punctures are so minute as to need careful searching for. Certain variations in the effects produced by the bites of different snakes have been noted ; thus, in Australia those of the brown and tiger snakes are especially followed by disturbance of the motor functions, and that of the tiger snake by vomiting of blood. Black snake bites are characterised by anaemia, due to the collection of blood in the vessels of the abdominal viscera, and those of the death adder by local blood extravasation. In India, cobra bites are followed especially by respiratory symptoms, glosso-labio-laryngeal paralysis, salivation, and other indications of hyper-secretion; those of Bungarus fasciatus, another variety of colubrme snake, by slow development of symptoms, an interval of two to five days elapsing before their appearance, and those of the vipers by great pain, extensive blood extravasations, and sanious excretions. Treatment.—The local treatment consists first in the application of an elastic ligature above the wounded point, to prevent as far as possible diffusion of the poison into the general circulation. In all severe cases it should be borne in mind that suction is of no avail for the extraction of the poison, but the wounds should be at once