310 8UE0I0AL DISEASES DUE TO MICROBIG INFECTION. tuberculosis, a clironic attack may at any time take on the characters of the acute form and rapidly prove fatal. Acute form. In man this form is the more frequent. The disease commences somewhat insidiously with malaise, headaclie, and pains in the limbs, and the patient often shows the same reluctance to speak of the possible origin of his disease as is noted in persons who have been bitten by a rabid dog. If a wound exist, it becomes painful and swoUen, and surrounded by a bright red area, sometimes extending along the line of the lymphatic vessels. Occasionally signs of pulmonary affection first appear, but more often the patient com- plains of one or more hard painful swellings in the limbs, which soften rapidly, and when punctured may furnish at first thin blood- stained fluid, but always eventually pus. Before the end of the first week deposits in the skin give rise to the characteristic eruption. The date of onset is some- what variable; the whole body may be affected, and as the erup- tion is successive, nodules in varying stages undergoing pro- gressive changes are found (1) Small, shotty, hard, red, papules; (2) somewhat rounded pustules often on a raised yellowish areola twice as wide as the pustule itself; (3) similar pustules on an inflamed red base; (4) large vesicles containing turbid serum, some of the size of bullae; (5) the latter varieties dried up, leaving a scab upon an indurated base. At a later date suppurating ulcers may occupy the site of previous pustules, and the confluence of these may lead to the formation of somewhat extensive suppurating areas. In its various stages the eruption simulates closely those of varicella and variola. During the development of the eruption numerous abscesses of a pysemic character form about the body, often deep and very extensive; or suppuration may occur in the joints. Deposits in the 'nasal mucous membrane, when they occur, are indicated by a thin watery discharge, becoming purulent and sanious as they break down; the nose at the same time becoming swollen, and reddened externally. Occasionally attacks of bleeding may be the only representative of this sign, which is inconstant. Deposits in the frontal sinuses give rise to severe headache, those in the con- junctiva are accompanied by much swelling of the eyelids, and those in the mouth or fauces to ulceration. Pulmonaiy signs may be those of pneumonia, bronchitis, or pleurisy. General symptoms develop pari passu with the local manifesta- tions. The bodily temperature, at fii’st little raised, reaches as liigh as 105° to 106° F., fluctuating much as a pysemic temperature, but without the frequent falls to normal. Profuse sweating is common; the pulse loses strength, and gains in rapidity; emaciation is rapid, giving a pinched appearance; the tongue becomes drj’- and brown; the urine contains albumen; sleeplessness is followed by delirium, often of a busy character, with picking at the bed-clothes; and the patient dies of exhaustion. Death may occur in less than one week, but is commoner in the second or thii’d. Chronic form.—In this the same complexity of symptoms is