492 ruMOuns. It is impossible to enter into a full consideration of the varieties exhibited in the contents of these extraordinary tumours, but some further details and illustrations will be given in the Article devoted to the ovary (Art. LIII., on Injuries and Diseases ob" the Female Genital Organs, Vol. II.). Neither is it necessary to discus,s seriously the guesses at the nature of ovarian dermoids conveyed in such expressions as parthenogenesis and hypererchesis, or such phrases as excess of formative energy, inclusion of surface epiblast, etc. Dei-moids are occasionally found on the omentum, mesentery, peritoneum, and under surface of the liver; these are due to transplantation and detachment, and to epithelial infection from ovarian dermoids. 4. Dermoid patches.—Under this heading is included the pig- mented hairy patches known as “ moles ” and especially those which are occasionally found on the conjunctiva. Hany moles, whether situated on skin or conjunctiva, possess sebaceous and often sweat glands. They are very vascular. The most striking histological feature of a mole on the skin is that the tissue underlying it is often similar to that of an alveolar sarcoma. {See page 468.) GROUP IV. CYSTS. Cysts result from the abnormal dilatation of pre-existing tubules or cavities. In the simplest forms they consist of a wall usually composed of fibrous tissue, but not infrequently mixed with plain muscle-fibre. The cyst contents may be mucus, bile, saliva, etc., according to the nature of the organ with which the cyst is associated. Cysts may be arranged in four genera: I, Retention cysts : 2, tubulo-cysts ; 3, hydroceles ; 4, gland cysts. 1. Retention cysts.—When the duct of a gland becomes obstructed, the secretion, hindered from escaping, accumulates m the ducts and acini and dilates them. If the obstruction be mamtained or oft repeated the gland tissue becomes impaired, then atrophies; finally, the gland and its duct are converted into a flmd-containmg sac or cyst. . , , n i j • ~ It is generally believed that when the duct of a gland is com- pletely obstructed the conversion of the parts into a cyst is a passive process : this, however, is not the case. When an excretory duct is so completely obstructed that no secretion escapes, then the glana rapidly atrophies. Retention cysts are due free flow of secretion, or temporary arrests of the flow frequentlj The purest forms of retention cysts arise m connection mth hoUow organs, the inner walls of which are provided with g ands. The chief species of retention cysts are hydrometra, hydrosalpinx, ^‘^^ny^/tSeTylts^may, ahd often do, reach very large proportions and eSanger life/not onfy by intofcing ^vith f ™ « of the functions of the organs in which they arise, ‘ e “' g some of them attain to causes them to interfere with adjoinni„