199 treatment. But the treatment of tetanus cannot be dismissed without alluding U,„b having "'St X X ceX nu,nbe"r ot case. SX X .tea^^cw. . -rXabf/t':= hitherto given no as little satisfaction as The general treatment of tetanus aHoras as p^haust the the loci. The — J^:.:^X^XX^ZlaXop^^^ ai'“srSSomew's Hospitol, and which has SX'oir'ifr srt sXnfXXt; srthe under the influence of a mixture consisting of equal paits ot Diomia of noW^^^^ of chloral hydrate. A usual dose is twenty gi’ams of Lch every six hours. Chloroform is administered when the convulsions are violent and distressing, and may be increased or d^iShed aHs found requisite. A light and nourishing fluid diet is administered. If trismus prevent the mouth from being opene food X be given by a tube passed behind the teeth or through the nose At the same time, as VerneuU recommends, the Patient may be wrapped in cotton-wool, and isolated in a warm, silent, darkened room ^Amongst the other remedies which have been given may be mentioMcl o.ygen gee (from this I have seen conium, belladonna, cannabis indica, opium, jaborandi, calabar bean tobacco enemata, nicotine, and other remedies too numerous to mention, and all equally dubious in their action. ^ The nreventive treatment oi tetanus is fully attained by adherence to the tenets and practice of aseptic surgery. It is necessary to remember, however, that this bacillus, owing to the extreme vitality of its spores, oflers great resistance to heat and chemicals. Instru- ments of any kind, and especially those which may have been <ised for a case of tetanus, should be boiled in washing soda and water tor at least twenty minutes. All recent wounds into which earth, mud, or dust may have entered ought to be thoroughly explored anc cleansed by the removal of fouled tissues, and thoroughly disintected with solutions of chemicals, such as a solution of perchloride o mercury—one part in flve hundred parts, with the addition of 5 pet cent, of hydrochloric acid; or a lotion of carbolic acid, one pait in ten. The wound should afterwards be dusted with iodoform poiyder and packed with iodoform gauze. An outbreak of tetanus ui a hospital ought to be traced to its source, and thorough disinfection practised under the strict superintendence of a competent peison. All the dressings and discharges from a tetanic patient should be burnt. _ _ . 11 1-