539 treatment of rUIMAUY HAEMOIiRUAGE. may entail a much greater interference with the arterial supply of the part than is necessaiy. _ . -.i. n For example, a gentleman was shot in the groin with a small bullet • a "reat eflusion of blood resulted : instead of opening up the wound and searching for the wounded vessel, the surgeon proceeded to tie the external iliac artery. After death it was found that the blood had all been poured out from a wound of one of the small super- ficial branches of the common femoral artery. Take, again, the case of a stab in the axilla, with free arterial bleeding. ^ The bleeding may be from wound of the axillary trunk or of one of its larger branches, such as the circumflex or subscapular, or from an intercostal artery. Without enlargement of the wound and actual exposure of the bleed- ing point, it may be impossible to determine the source of the hsemorrhage. Suppose that in place of this the surgeon were to ligate the subcla^’ian artery in the thh'd pai’t of its course ; if the wound had involved an intercostal artery, the hsemorrhage would continue un- affected. If, however, the wounded artery were a branch of the main trunk, the operation would have interfered with the arterial supply of the whole upper limb without any necessity ; and even if the axillary trunk itself were wounded, such a method of treatment might still fail to arrest the hsemorrhage, because blood might flow through anastomos- ing channels into the artery between the ligature and the wound. This principle is of extreme importance, and the exceptions to its application are very few, and only arise where to carry it out would be impracticable; those exceptions are mentioned in the section on the wounds of special vessels. The third cardinal principle of treatment is to secure loth ends oj the wounded artery, because the anastomoses of the branches of arteries are so numerous and free, and are so capable of enlargement, that blood readily finds its way into the distal portion of a divided artery, and escapes from the end if it is not securely closed. In certain situations, where the arterial anastomoses are particularly free—as in the scalp, face, and hand—blood will at once spurt out from the distal end of a divided artery almost as forcibly as from the cardiac end. But in other situations, even when there is no flow of blood at first, the dilatation of anastomosing channels soon brings blood freely into the wounded artery, and then hsemorrhage is liable to occur from the distal end of the vessel. It must be borne in mind that when an artery is divided or ligated in continuity, and its distal portion is for the time empty, the resistance ofierecl by the anastomosing channels opening into it is less than that of the terminal capillaries supplied by the communicating arteries, and this accounts for the rapid establishment of the “anastomotic circulation.” The necessity for securing the distal end of a divided artery is an addi- tional reason for tying a wounded artery in sitto. In some cases, when there is no hsemorrhage from it, it may be impossible to find the distal eird of a divided ardiery ; but diligerrt search should al- ways be made for it in the case of a vessel of any size. In a])plying these cardinal principles for the treatment of