629 dissecting ANEUB.YSM. depends upon the establishment of a double series of anastomosing The stream of blood pouring into the artery between the ligature and the sac may prevent cure of the aneurysm. “ These reasons have led surgeons lately to ligature the popliteal artery for popliteal aneurysm, and the results have been extreinely “cod In fact, the best site for the application of a proximal ligature fs as near to the aneurysm as it can be applied without risk of damage to the sac. The greater ease and convenience with which arteries can be exposed at some situations than others, of course, must influence the choice of operation. j +1 „ The distal ligature should by choice be placed close beyond the aneuiTsm, that tliere may be the greater chance of clotting spreading back into the sac, and also because in that situation it most power- fully affects the circulation in the aneurysm. Where a choice of arteries beyond the aneurysm presents itself, if all are not tied, those should be selected whose compression produces the most marked effect upon the particular aneurysm in question. 3. Dissecting Aneurysm. This form of aneurysm is more frequent in women than in men, and in cachectic than in robust persons. _ It occurs most often in the aorta, and may extend down the iliacs and as far down as the femoral artery, or up into the neck as far as the 1^^£^j.Q£j^-|^ion of the common carotid trunk. Aftei extending a ceitain distance inj;he wall of the artery, the blood may burst through a softened patch of intima into the lumen of the vessel again, or it may burst externally through the outer coats and become “diffused”; on the other hand, the passage of the blood may be arrested, and the aneurysm exist only as a blind pouch or diverticulum in the coats of the artery; by projecting inwards it may then greatly narrow the artery and obstruct the passage of blood through it. Dissecting aneuiysm is very rarely diagnosed during life. At the moment of its formation a sudden severe pain shooting along the course of the artery is experienced, and then there is noticed enfeeblement of the pulse in the arteries beyond, and there may be syncope. There is no known treatment for this condition. II. TRAUMATIC ANEURYSM. Definition.—A traumatic aneurysm is a “blood tumour com- municating with an artery, produced by an injury dividing all the coats of the artery.” The large share that strain and other injuries take in the production of spontaneous or idiopathic aneurysm makes it important to lay stress upon the latter clause of this definition, and it is by bearing this in mind that the mtiology of traumatic aneurysm becomes at once clear. Causes. (1) -4 subcutaneous wound or mixture of an artery.—