91 DIFFUSE CELLULiriS. which have penetrated into the cells, and they deny the occurrence of proliferation in the epithelium. This view, however, I do not think is correct, more especially when we bear in mind the facts with regard to proliferation of tissue cells in inflammatory conditions, 5uch as'the proliferation of the endothelium of the peritoneal cavity. After a time, if the inflammation go on, the mucous membrane becomes, in parts, more or less completely deprived of its epithelial covering, and ulceration takes place, so that when recovery occurs a scar is left on the surface of the mucous membrane. Where this inflammatory condition surrounds the canal and lasts for a long time, the new-formed connective tissue is very apt to constrict the calibre of the canal and produce a stricture. II. DIFFUSE CELLULITIS. At the beginning of this article I mentioned that there were two forms of suppuration in the tissues : namely, the circumscribed acute abscess and diffuse cellulitis, and we must now shortly consider the latter condition. (See also page 167.) This condition is usually, and probably always, due to the Streptococcus pyogenes (page 27). The inflammatory process is not limited to one part, but spreads rapidly along the cellular tissue, the organisms apparently growing along the lymph spaces and lymph channels. The result is that the tissues become swollen from the presence of the exuded fluid and of numerous cells, but there is not in the early stage any regular formation of a cavity containing pus. If an incision be made into a part affected with diffuse cellulitis, turbid semi-purulent fluid, or even well-formed pus, can be pressed out from the interstices of the tissue, while it is also found that portions of the fat, and fascia, and other structures in the affected area have died and form sloughs. Thus, the characteristic change in diffuse cellulitis is the inflltration of the tissues with pus and the sloughing of shreds of the tissues affected. This condition is a very grave one, because the patient is apt to die of septic poisoning from absorption of chemical products from the seat of disease, or the organisms themselves are very apt to get into the circulation either directly, or after having led to phlebitis and thrombosis, and thus set up the condition of pyaemia. (See also Art. VIII.) Symptoms of diffuse cellulitis.—As regards local appearances, the disease genei’ally starts from a scratch or a puncture, and begins with uneasiness in the affected part. Around the seat of the puncture redness of the skin appears, and spreads pretty rapidly, and as a rule red lines are very soon found running along the course of the lymphatic vessels to the nearest lymphatic glands. Locally, the skin becomes much swollen and brawny, and tender, but as time goes on and as suppuration appears the part becomes boggy, pitting on pressure and giving an imperfect sensation of fluctuation. In the course of the inflammation deflnite localised collections of pus may be found at a later period, but at the early