478 TUMOUim. (Fig. 123). In the case of the brain they grow most frequently from tlie choroid plexuses of the ventricles. The amount of calcareous matter in psammomata varies greatly. Sometimes the tumours are of stony hardness. In the brain they rarely exceed the dimensions of a shelled walnut. Favourite spots for these tumours are the tufts of villi which protrude from the lateral recesses of the fourth ventricle. The close relations of sucli tumours to the medulla, the trigeminal, facial, and auditory nerves lead to disastrous conse- quences. Fig. 123.—Microscopical Characters of a Psammoma. 2. Epithelioma. An epithelioma differs from a wart in the fact that the epi- thelium is not limited by the basement mem- brane, but passes be- yond it into the un- derlying connective tissue. This invasion is attended by peculiar cell formations known as nests. The disease often recurs after removal, and is exceptionally Liable to infect adjacent lymph glands. This genus consists of a single species—epithelioma. Site and mode of origin.—An epithelioma may arise in any part of the body where stratified epithelium exists, and is particu- larly prone to occur in situations where there is a transition from one kind of epithelium to another, and especially at spots where skin and mucous membrane come into relation with each other e.g. the anus and lips. Injured parts are sometimes attacked by this disease—e.g. the edges of cicatrices (Fig. 124) and ulcers. An epithelioma may make its appearance as a wart, as a fissure, or as a nodule on the surface of skin or mucous membrane. Perhaps the most frequent form is that in which the epithelioma appears as an ulcer with raised, rampart-like edges. When the disease starts in a fissure, and ulceration keeps pace with the infiltration, then, instead of raised edges, the ulcer has margins as sharply defined as those of a rodent ulcer, or even undermined. ■ ^ ^ -i i There is a third variety, in which processes project from the skin like warts, and their free surfaces are sometimes quite horny. Structure.—Although these three clinical varieties of epithe- Uoma look so different, they are identical in structure. When sections are cut in such a way as to include not only the edge of the ulcer