100 SUPPURATION. In cases where the septic change occurs somewhat later, and is due to the pyogenic organisms—that is to say, in cases where there is free suppuration from the cavity—all that can be done locally is to provide for very free drainage, while, at the same time, the strength of the patient is supported, and quinine and febrifuges are administered if necessary. Attempts may be made to diminish the sepsis and the amount of poisonous products by injecting iodoform and glycerine into the cavity from time to time, but the effect is really extremely slight. As regards the treatment of hectic fever, the first essential is as far as possible to diminish or remove the septic condition of the wound, and in cases where the suppuration has become more chronic and these hectic symptoms have set in, I think it is worth while opening up the wound, scraping the wall of the cavity as thoroughly as possible, and, after the bleeding has been arrested, sponging tlie wall with undiluted carbolic acid, and powdering the surface with iodoform. Where we have to do with such a cavity as a psoas abscess, one must then introduce large drainage-tubes and see that the discharge escapes freely ; but where the incision into the cavity is freer and one can reach its recesses, it is best to stuff it v,dth cyanide gauze sprinkled with iodoform, the stufl&ng being renewed whenever it is necessary till the wound has completely granulated. In a certain proportion of cases the parts will_ be rendered aseptic by this treatment, and the hectic fever will subside. If the result be not perfect, or if the hectic fever and suppuration recur, and if the patient be strong enough, the process may be repeated, and I have succeeded in more than one instance in the case of psoas abscess in checking the septic condition and obtaining healing of the wound by persevering in this line of treatment. I have described this treatment in connection with the more prolonged and less severe suppuration and the condition of hectic fever. Cases where the suppuration is profuse, that is to say, where active septic processes are going on in the wall of the abscess, are not adapted for such treatment, unless, indeed, one can obtam tree access to every portion of the cavity. If one cannot do this, but have to work in the dark, as in cases of psoas abscess, the attempt to scrape and disinfect the cavity will certainly be unsuccessful, and fresh paths are apt to be opened for the spread of the septic organisms left behind into the body generally. As regards the general treatment of hectic fever, that must be carried oiTt on the lines of the treatment of the various symptoms that arise. Antipyrine and other antipyretics should be employed it the evening temperature goes high, being administered an hour or so before the temperature reaches its highest point. Quinine in all cases is of value, as also is iron. The night sweats are particularlv Shaustinc, and may be checked either by the administration of Jlladonna intenially^ or by sponging the skin ^ of acetic acid or sulphuric acid. Stimulants should be freely admi nistered, and as nourfshing a diet as can be assimilated should be given.