TREATMENT. 67 and this is better done by local than by general blood-letting. The effect of general blood-letting is to lessen the vigour of the heart’s action, and consequently to reduce the force and rapidity with which the blood, is sent into the inflamed part. It is possible, also, that where a considerable amount of blood is withdrawn, the com- j)Osition of the blood-serum is altered in a direction antagonistic to the life of the micro-organisms, and thus the growth of the causal agents may be interfered with. The mode in which local blood- letting acts is not very clear, but it is probable that to a considerable extent the action is a reflex one, namely, that in emptying superficial vessels, reflex contraction of those which are going to the inflamed part occurs. The forms of local blood-letting in acute inflammation consist of leeching, cupping, scarification, and free incision. The action of the leech is to saw through the surface of the skin in a triradiate manner and then to suck a quantity of blood from the part. The amount which a leech will usually take is about a drachm and a half, and once it has sucked its full, it generally falls off. It is important to remember that in the leech’s pharynx a substance is secreted which has the power of preventing the coagulation of the blood, and in this way the flow of blood can go on. The importance of this point is with reference to the after-bleeding from leech bites, which is sometimes very dangerous and which may possibly in some cases be due to the presence of this secretion in the wound. In applying a leech, care must be taken to confine its movements within the area in which it is required to act (that area having been previously thoroughly cleansed), and if it does not quickly take hold, this will be promoted by pricking the part and drawing a little blood, or by rubbing a little cream on the surface of the skin. After the leech has filled itself, it usually drops off, but if it does not, the application of a little salt and water will produce that effect, and then the bleeding can be promoted for some time by the application of hot fomentations. When it is desired to stop the bleeding, the application of pressure is usually sufficient; but sometimes there is a great deal of trouble in arresting the hemorrhage. If that be the case, it may be necessary to apply styptics, such as perchloride of iron, etc.; but generally it is sufficient to pinch up the skin around the leech bite, dry it thoroughly, and paint it over with collodion. If the bleeding per- sist, excision of the leech bite will usually stop it. On account of this risk of bleeding, leeches should only be applied on parts where pressure can be subsequently and efficiently employed—for instance, not to the eyelid or the scrotum—and also, the leeches should be used in the morning and not at night, so that if bleeding goes on it can be easily detected. Cupping, either dry or wet, has practically the same effect. In employing wet cui)ping, the air in the cup is exhausted by a match or a piece of burning blotting paper, and the cup quickly inverted and closely applied to the skin. After it has acted for a few minutes, it is removed, scarifications are made over the part and the D 2