II 1(5 VISEASES OF JOINTS. tlie efTusion (page 1115). The great difficulty with such cases ifi to diagnose them from the tuberculous form of the disease, and, indeed, among yomrg patients this is often impossible. The same parts of the joint are alfected, and the satne general symptoms are present. Fortunately, the treatment for both these forms of disease is the same. They are each varieties of chronic inflammation of the synovial membrane, but with different exciting causes. This treat- ment will consist in rest of the part and depletion in the earlier stages. Then blisters and I’ubefacients follow, combined, of course, with tonics, good food, and fresh air. Later, if the synovial membrane remain swollen and pulpy, and the joint tender, it will be just as proper to remove it in the case of the simple synovial disease as in the tuber- cular. The beneficial results will be the same, and the methods employed also (page 1117). Syphilitic disease of the ankle joint, whether commencing in the bones or synovial membrane, is very common. It needs no special description either of its pathology, symptoms, or treat- ment, enough having been already said of the condition as seen in other joints generally (page 1044). Tuberculous disease of the ankle appears under two forms, both being, as a rule, clu’onic. We find it commencing primarily, either in the bones or the synovial membrane. In either case the affection is a grave one, for it rarely remains long limited to either structure, but has a great tendency to spread to all the tissues of the joint. It is mostly met with in children and young adults, and is particularly destructive to the joint in the former. In the latter, however, it is probably a graver disease, for when tuberculous infection begins to spread in a young adult who ought to be in a state of mature vitality, it either means that the dose of the poison is particularly virulent, or that the soil has become unusually receptive, owing to advanced debility. In either case the chances of an arrest of the disease are small, while in the child, who with every year is acquiring increased power of resistance against mfective disease, the prospect is better. The affection in the ankle joint is also particularly grave, from the ease with which it can spread to all the aspects of the astragalus, until the latter bone is literally surrounded by tuberculous inflamma- tion, and is little more than a sequestrum in the midst of a tuber- culous abscess. And, again, the latter is prone to invade the other neighbouring articvdations of the foot. The symptoms of tuberculous disease of the synovial membrane of the ankle joint in its earlier stages are those, as a rule, of .subacute synovitis (page 1115). Later, the usual pulpy swelling will be found in the spots indicated above, together with much stiffne.ss and weakness of the foot, and some pain, though not much. The patient s geJicral hist(jry will help much in a diagnosis. If the infection has spread to the l)ones or has commenced there, the latter will be expanded, and the pain on treading with the foot will be greater.