SYPHILIS. 390 become indurated, and be followed by secondai’y syphilis. In this case, no doubt, two poisons have been introduced at the same time: the micrococcus of suppuration and the germ of syphilis (whatever that may be). The surgeon must exercise caution, therefore, in giving an opinion as to the nature of any venereal chancre until three or four weeks have elapsed from the date of contagion, though in most cases he can be fairly sure before this. Phaged.00nic chancres.—When a chancre rapidly destroys the tissues, and spreads deeply into them, the term phagedsena is applied. Sharp bleeding is apt to occur from these sores, owing to the arteries being opened up ; and the haemorrhage, unless arrested by treatment, may prove very formidable, and occasionally even fatal. Phagedsena is especially liable to attack a concealed chancre far back under a tight foreskin, and may destroy the glans completely, or cause sloughing of the whole prepuce. The very foul-smelling, blood- tinged discharge from such a sore should excite suspicion in the surgeon’s mind, and lead him to adopt the first essential step to its treatment—thorough exposure by slitting up the prepuce. The slough should be cut away, and the actual cautery may require to be applied, in order to stop the hsemorrhage. In many cases, con- tinuous immersion in a warm bath containing a very weak solution of bichloride of mercury, or some other good antiseptic, will stop the phagedsenic process ; but if this is not successful or practicable, the ulcer should be lightly cauterised with the acid nitrate of mercury. Particular care should be taken if the ulceration verges on the urethra. Iodoform should be freely applied in the intervals of the immersion (which to be effective should be prolonged to many hours a day). Acute phagedsena is rarely attended with any gland enlargement to speak of, and a considerable proportion of the cases do not afterwards develop secondary symptoms; others, however, suffer severely from syphilis. These latter cases are generally instances of comparatively slow phagedsena. In fact it is probable that the rapid destruction of the tissues is an accidental complication due to some virus other than that of syphilis, and having more alliance with that of noma, or of the gangrenous ulceration induced experimentally in rabbits, etc., by the inoculation of certain decomposing substances. However this may be, it is a clinical fact that acute phagedsena is usually accompanied by no bubo, and may be followed by no secondary symptoms. The term is sometimes loosely applied to any sore which tends to ulcerate deeply, but should be reserved for those in which the destruction is very rapid. (See page 413.) Phagedsena may attack tertiary ulcers—e.g. of the buttocks and legs—but occasionally we meet with a similar complication in neglected non-syphilitic ulcers. The diagnosis of primary or infecting chancres. — It may seem almost unnecessary to point out that the skin of the male and female genital organs is liable to various diseases of the general cutaneous surface. Psoriasis papules, inflamed .sebaceous glands, boils, simple inflammatory oedema, eczema, lupus, etc., are