INJURIES OF BONES. 8i0 slight in proportion as the displacing force is slight and leaves more or less intact such structures as the periosteum, and the retinacula or reflections of the capsule upon the neck; it is kept within moderate limits if the Y-ligament retains its hold on the outer fragment; lock- ing of the fragments will also keep it down. The trochanter, though displaced, may feel normal or widened, or it may be represented by loose fragments. In the outer part of Scarpa’s space is a tender bony swelling, the angle between the fragments. Passive move- ments of the limb are painful: inversion can generally be produced with crepitus in fractures of the base of the neck, and in such crepitus is generally marked. In fractures near the head inversion can scarcely be produced, and crepitus is obscure owing to in- sufficient play betv/een the fragments. The arc of rotation of the trochanter lessens as the fracture approaches the base of the neck, when the trochanter merely turns on the axis of the shaft; it describes no arc. The minor degrees of this change are difficult to recognise. The following table gives the points which enable a surgeon to form an opinion as to whether a fracture of the neck is situate near the head or near the base :— Neaii the Head. Neaii the Base. Sex, age, and Female: past mid-life : fee- Male: young or adult: strong health ble. and healthy. Violence Slight: indirect through the head. Great: direct to the tro- chanter. Bruising and swel- Little or none : perhaps a late Great about hip. ling patch in Scarpa’s space. 1 to 2 or 3 inches. Widened or comminuted. Early shortening Trochanter ^ to 1 inch. Of normal shape. jLrc of rotation... Good. Small or absent. Crepitus Obscure. Easy, with extension. But all these points taken together establish only a greater or less probability. Shortening, in particular, may lead astray, for it may be prevented from developing characteristically by some accidental circumstance (Fig. 276). In the course of a few days inflammatory softening, movements, manipulations may set the frag- ments free, and slight shortening quickly becomes considerable. Obviously, development of the higher degrees of shortening at once is most likely to occur in fractures which lie just beyona the capsule. Impaction may occur in these fractures, and generally from direct violenc-e. Near the head, the neck is driven into the head (rare), the posterior wall penetrating more deeply than the anterior (eversion) (Fi<r. 282), and almost always the inferior more than the superior 277 is an exception) owing to rotation downwards ot tlie head (shortening). Barely these conditions are reversed (inversion).