ANEURYSM. tiOtj nerves that may happen to be compressed; tingling, numbness and, rarely, an£esthesia may be met with. ’ The cliag-aosis of such an aneurysm rests upon the determina- tion or two points: Lie existence of a circumscribed tumour^ and the coin- munication of that tumour with an artery. The pulsation of a normal or enlarged, or over-pulsatile, or displaced artery may be mistaken for an aneurysm, and this is especially the case in tlie condition of “ pul- sating aorta,” frequent in women, and often associated with dyspepsia. To rernember that the detection of a distinct tumour is the first and essential step in the diagnosis of an aneurysm will always prevent such an error. The communication of a tumour with an artery is shown by the expansile nature of the pulsation, and especially by the shrinking of the tumour when the artery above is compressed, and by its gradual filling out when that pressure is removed; theblowincr character of the bruit and the facts that it is heard equally well all through the tumour, and is not affected by moderate pressure of the stethoscope, are other useful evidences of this condition. Many other tumours pulsate, either from close proximity to an artery or from extreme vascularity. A tumour over an artery has a heaving, but never an expansile pulsation, and it is often only noticed in certain parts of the tumour, or in certain positions of the limb; if the tumour is sufiiciently mobile, it may be lifted away from the artery, and the pulsation in it at once arrested. When the artery above is compressed, such a tumour does not shrink, and when the pressure is removed and the pulsation returns, no increase of the tension of the tumour results. These facts show that the tumour does not communicate with the artery. Such tumours may produce a bruit by compression of the artery, but it can be distinguished fro;n an aneurysmal bruit. In the first place, it is not blowing in character, but rasping, like that produced by compressing any artery with the end of a stethoscope; then the bruit is often only heard just along the line of the artery, and not over the whole tumour; and lastly, if the end of the stethoscope is so held as to press the tumour against the artery, the bruit is increased in intensity, until the pressure is great enough to occlude the vessel, when, of course, it is lost altogether; pressure on the tumour in any other direction has no such effect. Where the tumour is cystic, the signs may be modified in one or two important ways. Thus, if the cyst envelop the artery and its tension is not high, the pulsation may be slightly expansile, owing to the throb of the artery indenting the wall of the cyst over it and displacing a certain quantity of fluid ; but this expansion is not to be compared in degree with that in an aneurysm of a similar tension. Again, if the cyst com- municates with another cavity, as some cysts near joints communicate with the articular synovial cavity, the tumour can be emptied and then fills out again. But this emptying and refilling can be distinguished from that of aneurysm by noticing three points: (1) that compres- sion of the artery above does not cause shrinking of the tumour, nor return of circulation fill out the tumour if it has been emptied ;