653 AXILLARY ANEURYSM. special dangers attend the opei’ation, viz. inflammation of the aneu- rysm and intrathoracic inflammation. The latter is the more frequent cause of death; it may take the form of pleurisy or pneumonia, or of cellulitis in the antei-ior mediastinum, with secondary pericarditis. The causes of these complications are wound of the pleura at the time of the operation, implication of the pleura in the sac of the aneurysm, rupture of an inflamed aneurysm into the pleura or lung, injury to the phrenic nerve, and the extension of septic inflammation along the cellular tissue between the scalene muscles, which is continuous with that in the mediastinum. Where the aneurysm has been situated low down, it has been recommended to tie the tirst part of the axillary artery, but it is better to tie the subclavian trunk. In the case of a very large axillary aneurysm it has been ad^•ised to tie the subclavian artery, and then at once amputate at the shoulder joint. For sacculated traumatic aneurysm, digital compression of the subclavian artery, with careful pressure on the tumour, should be tried first, and that failing, the third part of the artery should be tied. If the sac is very thin and threatens to rup- ture, it would be better to lay it open and tie all the arteries open- ing into it. Varicose aneurysm must be treated by ligaturing the artery above and below the sac. Inflamed axillary aneiorysm. — The inflammation may arise spontaneously or after ligature of the artery above; in the latter case the inflammation may spread from the wound to the sac, or it may result* from the sudden solidification of a large quantity of blood. The condition is recognised by the onset of pyrexia, with increasing swelling of the tumour, local heat, redness, and pain; then fluctuation may be detected, an abscess burst, and the escape of discoloured pus and coagula be followed by free arterial bleeding. The abscess may, however, burst into the pleura, or into a bronchus, and the pus be coughed up. If suppuration occur after ligature of the subclavian artery, an early incision should be made into the fluctuating part, and, if bleeding occur, an attempt should be made to tie the bleeding vessel, and failing this, the limb should be amputated. When occurring spontaneously, amputation is usually indicated ; but if the aneurysm is small, and the sac firm, the subclavian artery may be first tied. Reeitrrent pulsation.—If ligature above the sac fail to cure the aneu^sm, carefully-adjusted direct pressure, as by a sand-bag, should be tried. If tliat fails, the surgeon has to choose between employing a direct coagulant, such as electrolysis or acupuncture, laying open the sac and tying all vessels communicating with it, and disarticula- tion of the limb. Laying open the sac has been successful, but the milder means should be first tried, and if the “old” operation of Antyllus is undertaken, the surgeon must be prepared to amputate if he is unable to complete it. Diffuse aneurysm, or aneurysm with threatened gangrene of the arm, can only be treated by amputation at the shoulder joint. Brachial, radial, and ulnar aneurysm.—Aneurysms are