DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 574 of this. Statistics on the point are misleading, for constipation and varix being both of thern of great frequency, it is certain that a lar«e number of varicose patients will also exhibit constipation. Most aggravated constipation, extending over years, certainly fails to produce varix in a large number of individuals; and in cases of obstruction, where the colon is most distended and must press most upon the iliac veins—cases of cancer of the rectum, for example— varix does not arise. ^ It is important to.bear in mind that the conditions which reveal varicose veins are by no means necessarily those that induce them. Anything which produces fulness of the venous system not only makes the large veins evident to sight, but the distension of the dilated veins may cause pain. It is this fact which leads patients, and syiigeon.s, too, to attribute too great an letiological importance to standing or exercise, to pregnancy or constipation. In many cases these a,re only the conditions which lead to the varix being noticed. ^ Effects—It is commonly held that the varicose dilata°tion of a vein impedes the return of blood along it and leads to chronic con- gestion and oedema of the parts drained by it, while these in turn induce eczema, ulceration, and chronic induration of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. The frequent association of these latter con- ditions with varicose veins is a fact, but that they are related as cause and effect is highly improbable. Even in cases of extreme and long-continued varix no one of these phenomena may be observed, and they are all of them very often met with apart from varix. It is also interesting to note that varix in the thigh and varix of the main subcutaneous veins, even Avhen greatly developed, is not associated with these complications nearlv so often as varix in the leg and varicosities of the smaller .subcu- taneous veins. Varix of the sjjermatic veins certainly does not cause chronic thickening of the testicle ; but if any effect at all is produced on this organ, it is at the most a slight softening. Mere dilatation of a vein slows the current of blood along it, but it offers no obstruction to the flow of blood into it from tributaries ; on the contrary, it favours it. The lack of efficient valves in varices, which would otherwise tell injuriously, is generally com- pensated by the extreme tortuosity of the enlarged veins, the numer- ous and abrupt curves in the cliannel acting like valves; Avhere a vein is greatly enlarged transversely without these convolutions due to its increased length, the effect upon the circulation is liable to be more marked. Varix is sometimes attended with a tliickeniug and pigmentation of the skin over it: more often, liowever, the skin is tliinned by the constant pressiu’e ; and when, as may happen, this is combined with a thinning of the coats of the vein, the vessel Is liable to burst externally, either spontaneously, or as a result of strain, or of an injury, or ulcer. The thinning of a vein chiefly occurs in saccular dilatations of its walls. Symptoms.—An extreme degree of varix may exist without giving rise to any subjective symptom. More usually the patient