217 TBEATMENT. must be, in a considerable number of cases, that infective material is left behind in the wound. Further, these pads are not so abeorbent as sponges, and, in addition, portions of wool are apt to become detached and remain behind in the wound. That, of course, would be a matter of no consequence if the wool were really aseptic ; but, as I have said, in many cases the immersion in the antiseptic is so short that tliese portions of wool left behind not infrequently contain bacteria, and form a source of subsequent infection of the wound. Sponges are, on the other hand, much more satisiactory for the purpose of absorbing blood, and are perfectly reliable if only they are properly seen to. After an operation I always have the sponges thoroughly washed in cold water, and then subsequently with soap and water containing a little soda, and when they are thoroughly cleansed they are placed in a jar containing 1 to 20 carbolic acid solution, and this solution is renewed every three or four days. The result is, that at the end of a week—and the same sponges are not used again before that—they are satisfactorily disinfected, and care must simply be taken not to infect them during their transit to the surgeon. This is, however, what is very often done. The nurse often rinses the sponges in water, then dips tliem in an antiseptic solution, squeezes them dry, puts them in a dish which has not been rendered aseptic, and from the dish hands them to the surgeon, either directly or very often after rubbing blankets, coats, etc., in their transit. What I do is, after removing sponges from the 1 in 20 solution, to rinse them thorouglily in 1 to 2,000 sublimate lotion, and then to place them in a basin contain- ing the same solution. This basin is held within reach of the surgeon or his assistants, and when a sponge is required they squeeze it out for themselves. Thus the errors which may be committed by the nurse during the transit of the sponge are completely avoided, and there is practically no loss of time or increase of trouble to the surgeon in squeezing the sponge; in fact, I very often squeeze tlie sponge over the wound, thus at the same time employing it for the purpose of irrigation. After the sponge has been used it is returned to the nurse, who again washes it in sublimate solution and places it in a fresh vessel of the same. As regards ligatures, I believe that catgut is still the most universally applicable material when prepared in the way last described by Sir Joseph Lister, by the employment of sulphurous acid and chromic acid. As a matter of fact, one does not require to ligature many vessels in a wound now that we have suclt excellent pressure forceps ] but where it is necessary, the finest sulpho-chromic catgut forms a trustworthy ligature. Objections have been urged as to the asepticity of catgut, and these objections no doubt hold good with regard to the old method of preparation in carbolic oil. In hospital we always keep our catgut in 1 to 20 carbolic acid solution for at least a week before using it, and it is handed directly from that solution to the surgeon, and used in this way it may be relied on as being thoroughly aseptic. Silk also acts