197 PATHOLOGY. much credence given to it in France. Of late years cases of tetanus Tve been recmded there as being of exceptional interest because no contact with horses or horse-dung could be cbscovered Horses and those who work amongst them are somewhat liable to tetanus. Poland lelates-quoting Hurtel d’Arboval-that twenty-four horses were castrated^ on the same day, and afterwards led four tunes a day Sroimli a pond of water supplied by a very cold spring. Sixteen of tliem died from tetanus between the tenth and fifteenth day after tlie operation. In this brief account the cold spring is especially mentioned to support the “ cold theory ” of tetanus. Verneuil gives a areat number of instances of the transmission of tetanus by veterinary tools, and amongst those who had had to do with horses. Park asserts that although tetanus is rare amongst sailors, yet when it does occur it is almost exclusively on board of ships used for the transportation of horses. The following is an example of earth tetanus in a human beingA boy aged four years was under my care for a fatal attack of tetanus, which had been caused by a punctured wound of the face. Whilst playing in the garden he ran a piece of firewood into the subcutaneous tissue of the face._ A drachm of the garden soil was placed in a pocket beneath the skin of a rabbit. It died of tetanus, as did also mice which were inoculated from the tenacious white lymph which formed where the earth had been inserted. It is recorded by those who took part in the last Stanley expedition that the natives poisoned their arrows witli juices mixed with earth, and that many of those injured with them died of tetanus. , ... . Within the body the comportment of the tetanus bacillus is not well understood. Its presence at the seat of inoculation is beyond doubt, and can be ascertained by inoculation experiments and by microscopical examination. Both the typical drumstick spore-bearing and non-spore-bearing bacilli are found in the pus or discharges from the wound. A cover-glass preparation stained with carbol fuchsin gives the best results. The tissues in the proximity of the wound are, at early stages, infective, and Beumer and others have caused tetanus with them j but, like other observers, I have failed to find the tetanus bacillus in the tissues of the wound. Tetanus bacilli cling to splinters of wood or foreign bodies, such as are found in wounds. Many observers have caused tetanus with such splinters, and some have procured from them the bacilli. ^ The tissues in the neighbourhood of these foreign bodies are highly infective. It has been shown by very large numbers of inoculation experi- ments that the blood is not infective in tetanus. After animals have been inoculated with pure cultures of tetanus bacilli, the microbes are found duiing the first twenty-four hours at the seat of inoculation and in its immediate vicinity ; but they then disappear from all parts, except, perhaps, from the pus of the wound, and are said not to be found in any of the fluids or tissues of the body. Moreover, it is said that none of the fluids or tissues of