TBEAT3IENT. 219 As regards the union of the edges of the wound, one must as far as possible avoid all traction on the immediate edges. If there be a clifficulty in bringing the sides of the wound together, the stitches that are employed for the purpose must be inserted at some distance from the edge; in fact, where the tension is very great it is well to employ the button stitches that were introduced by Sir Joseph Lister. In applying the button stitch, a needle threaded with stout silver wire is inserted at a considerable distance from the edge of the wound, and the end of it is fastened to a lead button, so that a considerable area of pressure is exerted at the base of the flap. The needle is then carried through the opposite side of the wound, also far away from the edge, and when the wire is pulled as tight as possible, another button is attached in a similar manner on that°side. Two or three pairs of buttons will generally suffice in the case of a large wound, and will enable one to approximate the edges much more closely. As a rule, where much skin has been taken away, it is necessary, in addition to these button stitches, to employ stitches of thick silver wire at various points in the course of the wound, these stitches being also inserted at some little distance from the edge, so as not to constrict the actual healing edge. Where there is much tension these stitches should be numerous, so as to distribute the pressure over a considerable area. Finally, the actual edges of the wound are brought into contact without any tension by means of fine suture of silk, fishing-gut, horse-hair, catgut, or any material which the surgeon fancies. For my own part, I generally employ a continuous stitch of fine silk, the stitch being inserted in the same manner as in making button-holes, that is to say, the needle always passing inside the loop of the silk, so that on one side there is practically a continuous line of silk. These stitches may be left in for a week or ten days. As a rule, however, it is well to remove the button stitches after four or five days ; otherwise they are apt to cut through or even to cause a slough at the point of greatest pressure. Where it is desirable to have as little scar as possible, as, for example, in the face, it is very important to avoid the stitch mai'ks, which are often much more disfiguring than a linear scar, and this can be done by inserting stitches of very fine catgut by means of a Hagedorn’s needle between the deepest layers of the dermis on each side. These stitches remain in and gradually become absorbed, and there is no puncture through the skin itself. The actual epidermic line can then be brought together by strips of gauze fixed on the skin on each side of the wound by means of collodion. Having stitched up the wound, it should be thoroughly squeezed, so as to press out all the sublimate solution which has entered during the irrigation, and also to expel any fluid blood which may be present, and then tlie antiseptic dressings are applied. I believe the most universally applicable and most satisfactory dressing is the double cyanide gauze (mercury and zinc) introduced by Sir Joseph Lister. This should be wrung out of either 1 to 40 carbolic lotion,