1122 DISEASES OF JOINTS. Here in most cases distinct fluctuation can be felt. Movements of the joint, whether active or passive, are productive of pain, and are in the latter case strongly resisted by the muscles whicli fix the humerus to the scapula, and cause the two bones to move as a whole. Together with this there will be increased heat in the part. These symptoms will be sufficient for a diagnosis in most cases, the rapid onset and general acuteness serving to distinguish the con- dition from tuberculous invasion. The absence general constitu- tional distux’bance distinguishes it from the septic form of synovitis. The treatment consists in fixing the arm so as to prevent move- ment in the joint; and here nothing is better than strapping applied as for a fractured clavicle by Sayre’s method (page 804). But the same immobilisation may be brought about by putting the arm in a sling and securing it to the side by bandages encircling the body. In addition to this, hot fomentations must be applied, combined with belladonna and glycerine. When there is much distension of the capsule, the joint should be aspirated. Leeches may also reduce the tension, and should be placed over the front and inner aspect of the capsule. When the inflammation has been by these measures allayed, blisters and rubefacients are desirable, and, later, massage and douching with hot salt water, together with regulated passive move- ment. In certain cases where much stiffness remains after an attack of simple acute synovitis it may be well to put the patient under an anaesthetic, and forcibly move the joint in all directions, the scapula being fixed by an assistant standing on the opposite side and clasping his hands over the clavicle. This measure, however, should only be adopted with great caution, and when all traces of the original inflammation have disappeared. On the other hand, such stiffness •should not be allowed to remain too long untreated ; for muscular atrophy sets in early, and the pain associated with the stiflness is often completely relieved as soon as adhesions are broken down and the movements of the joint are restored. Simple subacute and clironic forms of synovitis of the shoulder joint only differ from the acute in intensity and duration, and need no special description here. They call for the same treatment in the earlier stages as the same affections in other joints (page 1034). The same rules, too, as regards forcible passive movement apply here as in the case of the acute affection. Acute, subacute, and ehrouic septic synovitis of the shoulder may be said to be uncommon. When met with, the same treatment must be employed as for other joints (page 1042). When incisions have to be made to evacuate the effused fluid, they should be placed anteriorly close to the bicipital groove; and, if necessary, a counter-opening must be made behind, but this will not always be necessary. Tuberculous disease of the shoulder is less common, too, than that of other joints, but is met with sufficiently often to deserve close attention. It may start either in the synovial mem- brane or in the bone; and if in the latter, either under the encrustmg