WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. 214 follicles where these are large. Care must be taken that the anti- septic substances employed shall thoroughly reach and act upon the bacteria contained in these parts. It may be sufficient, in order to avoid the introduction of bacteria at the time of the operation itself, to destroy the bacteria which are present on the surface of the skin, and that is probably all that need be done with regard to the surgeon’s hands; but in the case of the skin in the neighbour- hood of the wound this is not always sufficient, because, in spite of the antiseptic dressings applied afterwards, bacteria which may have been left behind in the deeper parts in the hair and seba- ceous follicles, may grow in the epithelium, and very shortly reach the wound and develop in it. Therefore it is of import- ance that the disinfection of the skin of the patient should be so thorough as to destroy, if possible, all the bacteria present in it, and certainly all the pyogenic cocci. In order to do this we have to get rid of the surface epithelium, to get rid of all the oily material on the surface of the skin, to remove the hairs, and then to saturate the part thoroughly with strong antiseptic solutions for a sufficient length of time. Hence the method wliich I adopt to dis- infect the skin is in the first instance to wet it thoroughly with tur- pentine, with the view of getting rid of the fatty materials (the turpentine also is an antiseptic). Following the application of the turpentine the part is well washed with soap and carbolic acid lotion. I generally use a five per cent, lotion of carboUc acid containing a five-hundredth part of corrosive sublimate in solution. By means of soap and this solution and a nail-brush the surface epithelium and fatty material are thoroughly removed from the surface of the skin, and the part is then shaved in order to get rid of the hairs. A further application of this same “ strong mixture ” is then made, and where tune will permit, a cloth saturated in the solution is wrapped round the part for some two or three hours before the operation, and then at the tune of the operation the whole process—turpentine, nail-brush, etc.—is repeated. ^ As regards the surgeon’s hands, the main point to be attended to is the disinfection of the nails and the parts under the nails and around their bases, and here also the same measures are employed. The hands are first sponged over with turpentine, then they are thoroughly washed with soap and the “strong mixture” and a nail- brush, and then the nails are carefully cleaned with a knife so as to remove all the dirt and dead epithelium from beneath and around them. The hands disinfected in this manner are not dried after- wards, but a basin containing 1 in 2,000 sublimate solution is kept close by in which they are repeatedly dipped during the progress of the operation. • i i j All the instruments which will come m contact with the wouna should also be thoroughly disinfected, and this is generally quite satisfactorily done by immersing them in 1 to 20 carbolic acid solution for at the most about half an hour before the operation. Hus is quite satisfactory except in the case of toothed instruments, such as