403 treatment of secondary sypnilis. adopted many cases of syphilis are very mild during the secondary «tnc/p and this fact partly accounts for the difficulty with which a ferny of tie fyn.ptoms of this stage is obtaioed in patiente pre- sentin^ undoubted tertiary lesions. A slight rash on the trunk, am rSwCerficial sores on the throat may be the only symptoms, and needless to say, they may be readily overlooked or forgotten by the ’’“‘Treatment of secondary syphilis.-^ «-on as a positive dia<-nosis of syphilis can be made, the patient should be given mercuiy, ancf if possible he should continue to take it for at least a year, bettei for two years. Fairly often, the induration of the chancre may be so concliisiim, and the bullety enlargement of the inguinal glands so tvpical, that we have no doubt whatever that constitutional syphilis will follow. In such cases—and in such only—a mercurial course should be begun at once, with the view of preventing any secondary symptoms. If the diagnosis is doubtful, it is far better to wait a few weeks until the earliest secondary lesions manifest themselves treating the chancre locally with iodoform or black wash, etc., and explaining to the patient that it is necessary for him to remain under supervision until two to three months have elapsed from t e date of exposure to risk. To submit a case to one or two years mercurial course for what was only a simple ulcer or soft sore is neither scientific nor justifiable treatment. The earliest secondary symptoms—roseola, slight sore throat, general gland enlargement, etc.—will probably appear within eight or nine weeks if the case be one of syphilis ; and if the mercurial treatment is then begun, they quickly yield. _ ^ ... . What is a proper mercurial course ? In acquired syphilis it is advisable that the patient should continue to take the drug for at least a year; better for eighteen months or two years, with short intermissions. There is no necessity to cause any salivation, or even sponginess of the gums, although some cases of severe secondaries seem to improve most rapidly when the gums are slightly affected. Of the many preparations, one should be chosen which is least irritating to the individual patient, and certainly one of the best is grey powder (mercury and chalk) in doses of one grain three or four times daily. Some patients can take two-grain doses for long with- out inconvenience, but in many six or eight grains daily will either purge or produce salivation within a week or two. It is customary to combine a little Dover’s powder (or pure opium if there be a tendency to diarrhoea) with the grey powder. The pill form is the most convenient, but some object to this, and the liquor hydrargyri perchloridi (in 1 drachm doses) is a good alternative. Blue pill, the tannate of meremy, the green iodide, and calomel may be mentioned as in favour with diflerent surgeons ; but the first two preparations (Hyd. cum creta and Liquor hydrargyri) are tlie safest, provided the appropriate dose is determined for the individual case. The gums should be brushed night and morning, and, if necessary, an astringent mouth-wash may be ordered; the diet should be plain, and all