TREATMENT OF SECONDARY HAEMORRHAGE. 547 sm'geon’s aim. He must also endeavour to render the part aseptic; for if he does not succeed in this, the continuation of the j)rocess which led to the bleeding will lead to its recurrence. The greatest care should be taken to apply efficient antiseptics to every part of the wound, and especially to the vessel and the tissues around it. A light antiseptic dressing should be applied, through which bleeding, if it recurs, will at once be detected, and the patient should be constantly watched. Great care should be taken to keep the ai'terial tension as uniform as possible; to this end, strict rest should be enjoined; the diet should be light and unstimulating; the bowels should be carefully regulated and relieved, if necessary, by enema ; while pain and restlessness must be subdued by opium. As far as possible, all excitement must be allayed, and the patient must be encouraged to believe that no recurrence of the bleeding will occur. In certain conditions the Ireairnent by ligature cannot be car- ried out;— {a) Where the tissues are sloughy, and a ligature cannot be made to hold, but at once cuts through the vessel, the actual cauterv should be employed. The cautery must be at a dull red heat, and applied for a long time, so as to char the artery and surrounding tissues deeply. This not only secures a firm temporary closure of the vessel, but it renders its end aseptic, and it is this fact which explains the success yielded by the cautery in some apparently des- perate cases. (6) In certain suppurating and sloughy wounds, the htemori-hage occurs not from any one large arteiw, but blood oozes out from the whole surface—“ parencJiymatous oozing.” The bleeding has the recurrent character of arterial secondary haemoi-rhage, and if unchecked, is ultimately fatal. To tie the bleeding vessels is im- possible, and pressure is of only temporary avail. Such cases may be dealt with by searing the whole surface with a hot iron, by daily application of finely-powdered dried sulphate of iron, or, best of all by continuous irrigation with ice-cold boric acid solution. (c) There are rare cases in which, a few days after an operation venous bleec mg occurs, and recurs day after day, delaying healing and eventually becoming serious from loss of blood. Where it can be exerted, firm pressure is tlie best means to adopt in these cases • in other instances styptics may be injected into the wound The writer has met with two instances of this haemorrhage. In one the venous bleeding, gradually becoming more abundant, persisted for more than a week after excision of the mamma for scirrhus ; in the otlier it occurred after amputation through the lower third of the thiffii. limture^of of the woSnd and ligature of the bleeding artery is impracticable, on account of the position of the vessel. The deep arteries of the neck, groiig and didomen are instances of this. In such cases the only course opmi ?aum wound with aseptic gauze V Inch must be kept in position undisturbed for several days case^of cancerous ulceration into arteries, which occurs most