ANEURYSM. 648 characteristic symptoms of tlie aneurysmal varix manifest tliemselves. 'I'lie patients are liable to headache, giddiness, and other signs of cere- bral congestion, and also to palpitation, which it is believed may arise from the presence of arterial blood in the right side of the heart. The bruit may be so loud as even to interfere with the patient’s sleep. Only palliative treatment has been adopted for these cases; when the common or internal carotid artery is implicated, operation is not, as a rule, indicated; if the symptoms are very marked and annoying, a ligature may be placed on the artery atjove and below the communication with the vein ; but if in any case the surgeon can satisfy himself that the artery involved is the external carotid, this artery should be tied above and below the communication with the vein. The cerebral congestion, when severe, may be relieved by leeches. A case of varicose aneurysm of the internal carotid artery close to the skull has been recorded; the appropriate treatment for such a condition is ligature of the artery lower down in the neck. Traumatic aneurysm of the temyoral artery may result from accidental wounds, or after arteriotomy. The best treatment is excision of the aneurysm. Intracranial aneurysm. — The miliary aneurysms on the arteries in the substance of the brain, which are always to l)e found in cases of cerebral haemorrhage, are met with almost exclusively in the latter half of life, and may be regarded as the result of arterial de- generation. The aneurysms which are met Avith in the arteries at the base of the brain are less frequent, but to the surgeon more important, and the following remarks apply exclusively to them. These aneurysms are nearly equally frequent in each decade of life after the first to the seventh, and after that become very rare. They appear to be due most often to syphilis or embolism, rarely to injury or atheroma. Syphilis is known to affect the arteries of the brain more often than other arteries ; the association of intracranial aneurysm with valvular disease of the heart is also very marked. The arteries most often affected are the middle cerebral, the basilar, and the internal carotid. The aneurysms are generally the size of a pea, but may be as large as a hazel nut, a grape, or even a^ hen s eo-o-.’ Both fusiform and sacculated aneurysms are met with; a A^ariable amount of clot may be found in the sac, and spontaneous cure has been known to occur. Rupture of the aneurysm is the most frequent termination, and the resulting hcemorrhage into the membranes, brain substance, or cerebral ventricles, causes sudden or speedy death; occasionally the rupture is small and the surrounaing parts resistant, and the ha3morrhage is slow and its effects are gradually produced. i Symptoms.—In many cases no symptoms haA’e been observed prior to those of the fatal rupture. The most constant symptoms are headache and giddiness ; paralysis may be induced by pressure upon the nerves at the base of the brain, or the brain itself, and by care- fully noting the paralysis the exact position of the tumour may be