888 DISEASES OF BONES. ■works its 'vvay to tUe surface. Consequently, the enlargement of bone has most frequently been mistaken for some form of endosteal new growth. There appear to be two classes of cases—one in which the death of bone is produced by some specific disease, such as syphilis or tubercle, and the other in which an acute infection of the tissues outside the bone has produced an abscess which has subsequently healed, but in doing so has destroyed the vitality of a portion of the adjacent bone. It is probable that in the latter case the pyogenic cocci have never entered the bone at all, which has not, therefore, the same irritatmg qualities of most sequestra. Tlie inflammatory barrier around the original abscess has been of such intensity as to cut off the circulation to a cei’tain portion of the bone beneath, and has then produced healthy granulations, which have quickly closed the original abscess or wound. The sequestrum is then in an analogous position to an aseptic foreign body, which becomes encysted. In the former case of syphilis or tubercle it is well known that necrosis may arise in both these diseases from obstruction to the circulation of a given area of bone. If the organisms of suppura- tion do not gain access to the part affected, the inflammation may be only suflicient to separate dead from living, and not enough to involve the surrounding tissues. There is then no external sign of suppuration, and the case may resemble one of endosteal new growth. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis may present considerable difficulty. Where there is a history of a previous abscess or a septic wound, of which the scar remains to tell the tale, there will be less difficulty than one in which the enlargement of bone appears to have been of spontaneous origin. In syphilis it would be rare for one bone only to be affected, and there would possibly be a history of other manifestations in the mouth, throat, or skin. The shaft of a long bone is also more likely to be the part enlarged, and not the articular extremity, where new growth is more common. The length of time would be greater in syphilis than in any malignant disease. The swelling might also be mucli diminished by iodide of potassium and mercury. In Morrant Baker’s case the symptoms of disease in the shaft of the femur had existed for ten weeks, and spontaneous fracture had occurred four weeks before the amputation. After removal of the whole limb at the hip-joint for what was thought to be malignant disease, it was found to be a case of necrosis of a large part of the shaft of the femur from chronic osteitis. A tuberculous osteomyelitis of the extremity of a long bone is, however, the condition most likely to give rise to mistakes, although, as a rule, there is no difficulty in the diagnosis of this disease, on account of the inflammatory exudation into the soft parts over the bone. But when such inflammatory exudation has not taken place, and the bone is large and hard, without any softened spots to throw light upon the nature of the case, there may be some difficulty in arriving at a positive diagnosis. Tubercle is slow in growth compared with malignant disease, but not slower than myeloid sarcoma, it never,