1112 DI8EA8P:S of joints. {^rating may be felt in the joint wnth the hand placed over the front. After much exertion at this stage there may be some eilusion, and the temijerature will be increased. The diagnosis usually offers little difficulty in view of the patient’s age, and the above changes anff the probable affection of other joints at the same time. The treatiuciit in the early stages consists in keeping the part warm and in proper exercise, with regulation of the diet. As re- gards the latter, everything which will promote healthy digestion and elimination must be attended to. Massage, too, will be found of great benefit if carried out regularly. Alkaline mineral waters are also indicated, and a course of warm baths, such as those of Wildbad, is frequently followed by much benefit. In the later stages very little can be done to cure the disease, but the measures just recommended will retard its progress and diminish the suffering caused by it. Ultimately great deformity is often caused by this disease, and a locking of the femur against the tibia, owing to the osteophytic out- growths from both bones. Sometimes one or other of the latter become detached and loose in the joint, giving rise to all the symptoms, and requiring all the treatment, of loose bodies (page 1070). But though the locking of the two bones may ultimately almost completely suspend its movements, true synostosis is exceedingly rare. Anchylosis of the knee.—-Amy of the forms of limitation of movement, partial or complete, affecting joints as described under the heading of “Anchylosis ” (page 1067) may affect the knee, and the general principles of their treatment were laid down there. But in the case of the knee it must be remembered, in the first place, that the primary function of the part is to support the body in pro- gression j and in the second, that unless there is a good prospect of obtaining voluntary movement in both directions of flexion and ex- tension it is better to abstain from all attempts to restore motion. For there is a strong tendency in this joint to assume a position of flexion whenever in pain; and if our passive or its own active move- ments produce pain, it will be kept flexed as far as possible. In this way a limb which has been straight and stiff after inflammation, but useful for progression, may be rendered useless by injudicious attempts to restore its movements; for as soon as the patient can move it he will place it and maintain it involuntarily in a state of flexion. Unless, then, the condition be completely relieved and free movement without suffering be restored, a perverted position is the result in many cases, and when strongly flexed tlie joint is not as useful as before, and even tends to grow worse, there being always a tendency to flex it involuntarily, and none to extend it again, iliis may be counteracted to some extent by splints, but, on .the othei hand, the latter prevent the very thing we are aiming at—namely, free movement—and favour the production of stiflness again. Occa- sionally anchylosis with flexion is combined with great rotation of