382 HYSTERIA IN ITS SUBGIOAL RELATIONS. prominens, and is also frequent in the lumbar spine. Intense pain is complained of, but it is quite superficial, and pinching the skin causes more distress than pressing the bone. The patient will resent forcible moving of the part, but no rigidity, no deformity, and no thickening are to be made out. A jar to the column will not cause pain. In some cases ■ there may be paraplegia, which will present the characters of the hysterical form of that affection. Pliantom tumours are produced by an abiding spasm of a muscle or part of a muscle. By the contraction of the fibres a fairly defined swelling may be produced. This is most often met with in one of the compartments of the rectus abdominis, and may be attended by some of the abdominal symptoms that are not uncom- mon in hysteria. Dr. Weir Mitchell gives accounts of like tumours in the calf and in the pectoral region. These swellings can be made out to be muscular; they vary in size, they are apt to disappear, and entirely vanish under an anaesthetic and during sleep. Abdominal troubles.—These are usually very incongruous. In not a few instances the symptoms of ulcer of the stomach are fairly imitated. In others there is a distinct dilatation of the stomach, with constant eructations. Unaccountable vomiting, flatulent dis- tension of the intestines, obstinate constipation, a fitful diarrhoea, and more or less “violent” colic are all fairly common. (See page 383.) In one case under my care the abdomen was opened because the symptoms complained of closely resembled those of stricture of the small intestine. The bowel was found to be normal, but aU the symptoms vanished after the operation. Retention or incontinence of urine in the hysterical may be recognised by the general symptoms presented by the patient, and by an absence of any of the physical conditions that would cause the complication. Treatment.—The general treatment of hysteria concerns the physician rather than the surgeon. It will here be sufficient to say that any probable cause of the disease should be treated, uterine troubles relieved, dyspepsia treated, and debility dealt with by the usual means. Drugs, such as valerian and asafoetida, are of little use, but bromide of potash is of value when there is much restless- ness, and when the patient is distressed by the nerve pains. In obstinate cases no measures succeed so well as those adopted by Dr. Weir Mitchell:—(1) Perfect seclusion, so enforced that the patient is removed from all home influences, and from the attractive halo of indiscreetly sympathetic friends. (2) Perfect rest both of brain and body. (3) Such moral influences as may induce the patient to recognise the true nature of her ailment, and to aid treatment by rightly exercising again a long dormant or perverted will. (4) Passive exercise in the form of massage, or “ muscle kneading.” This shampooing of affected parts should be con- ducted from thirty to sixty minutes daily, and, as Dr. Mitchell