207 HEALING BY SCABBING. layer of clot on the surface which does not become infiltrated wi cells, and in the course of a few weeks, if this thin layer of clot be lifted up and peeled ofiF, a cicatrix is found beneath. This process of healing by blood clot is, of course, not limited to onen wounds. Where a wound, in which the edges of the skin are united at the time of the operation, is deep and extensive, it is vei-y seldom that the whole of the cut surfaces are in actual contact as is requisite for union by first intention ; and in the parts J^^^^re these surfaces are not in actual contact blood clot is formed, and the process iust described takes place. In subcutaneous injuries also this healing by blood clot is almost the only form in which healing ^^5^ ^Healing by scabbing.—As I have already said, where a portion of skin is removed, or where the edges of the are not brought together, the surface of the wound becomes in the first instance -lazed with lymph, as a result of the early stage of inflammation set up by the irritation of the operation. In certain cases, where the wound is exposed to the air, this lymph, which in such circumstances would be somewhat excessive in amount, dries up on the surface, and a scab forms in which micro-organisms cannot oTOw and which thus protects the actual surface of the Avound from further irritation. That being the case, the processes which go on under the scab are essentially the same as those which go on between the cut surfaces of a wound which is healing by first intention, with the single exception that these surfaces are not in accurate apposi- tion. The lymph originally poured out, the surface of which has dried and formed a crust, remains on the surface of the wound, and becomes infiltrated with cells, which organise in the same manner as between the cut edges, while after a time epithelium spreads in beneath the scab over the surface of the organising material, and leads to complete cicatrisation, so that when the scab is picked 03" a cicatrix is found beneath. This method of healing by scabbing is, however, not to be recommended unless in very small wounds, because it is seldom that the scab is complete over the whole surface, or that it forms quickly enough to prevent the entrance of micro-organisms ^ and if micro-organisms have entered, suppuration is very apt to occur beneath the scab which confines the pus, and thus lead to the occurrence of ulceration or inflammation of the wound. General symptoms attending the healing process.—We have now to note the constitutional condition of the patient dur- ing the process of healing in the various ways which have been described. Where healing takes place by first intention, or by blood clot, or by scabbing, the general state of the patient remains good, and unless the operation has been a. severe one, there is no disturbance of the temperature or pulse, while after the effects of the anffisthetic liave passed ofi’, the patient is as well as before the operation. In cases where the operation has been extensive, or wdiere