676 INJURIES AND DISEASES OF LYMPHATIOS. the name given by Dr. Manson to a condition in which both groins are occupied by large obscurely lobulated swellings, which to the touch feel boggy, doughy, semi-fluc- tuating, with here and there a fii-mer kernel-like lump, from which a needle will extract chylous or lymphous fluid. These are due to filarial obstruction of the thoracic duct. (2) LympJb scrotum—elephantiasis scroti — results from the plugging of the upper group of the super- ficial inguinal glands if anastomosis is not established. It attacks Euro- peans, but is much more frequent among native races. The condition commences by an attack of inflamma- tion, accompanied with elephantoid fever (Fayrer), which differs from the (ever of malaria in the ii-regularity of the attacks, and in the greater length both of the febrile paroxysm and of the intervals. This is followed by a discharge of lymphous or chylous fluid, which recurs at intervals. The scrotum is red and enlarged, and its surface vesicles, Fig. 190.—Iiymph Scrotum. (Mauson.) covered with from which herpes-like a milky or sanguino- lent fluid escapes, and in which almost invariably living filarise are to be detected. These conditions continuing, the skin of the scrotum and penis becomes rough and coarse, and gradually the parts attain enor- mous size, until the scrotum reaches a weight of 10, 20, or 30 lbs., whilst masses weighing 110, 140, and even 224 lbs. have been recorded. The tumour is pear-shaped, with its nar- rowest part at the pubic and perineal attachments. The testes are dragged down and are found at the back part, considerably below the middle of the "t-^xHoar. The penis is to be distin- guished at the upper part of the neck of the mass at the extremity of a tunnel formed by the hypertrophied skin of the penis and prepuce (Fig. 190). The weight of the tumour draws down the skin of tlie abdoinen and alters its form. The discharge JTig. 191.—Elephantiasis of the Extremities. (Hanson.) from the ^•aricose lympliatiof