31.6 SURGICAL DISEASES DUE TO MIOROBIC INFECTION. wliich the freest opportunities for the chewing of corn and barley grains are afforded. ^ Hie common localisation of the disease to the jaws and neigh- bouring tissues gave rise to the theory'that the existence of carious teeth led to the development of the process by affording a suitable nidus for the growth of the organism and its extension by the tissues of the alveolus. The fact that the disease is especially common in Fig. 55.—Seotion of an Actinomycotic Centre in a Cow’s Tongue. Marked development of connective tissue and clubs. The actinomyces are treated diagrammatically, to illustrate the appearance usually observed in those obtained from urine, or pus. calves at the time of the second dentition appeared to support this; but the exclusion of carious teeth as the point of origin in Bostrdm’s cases of maxillary actinomycosis in man is against the theory; and it may be at the same time pointed out that disease of the jaws in man has been almost without exception peripheral in arrangement, while central disease would more naturally be expected if the process started from within the alveolus. In calves, however, disease of the jaws is often central, great expansion of the bone taking place. In other observed cases the origin of the disease has been clearly traced to chewing barley; and in two cases of external actinomycosis of the hand, in one the abscess developed in the palm, as the result of pressure of the sickle while reaping; and in the other a nodule developed on the back of the hand of a person engaged in thrashing grain (Bertha). The actinomyces.—The organism itself, obtained from the (iis- charge from an abscess or fistula, or from the urine orfseceswhen the alimentary or urinary tracts are the seat of the disease, presents the following characters :—It is found in small nodules, varying in size from a grain of sand to a hemp-seed, rounded or mulberry-like in form, grey, greyish-green, sulphur yellow, or, when obtained from the fa;ces.