ANEURYSM. 608 by einbolism, or by rapid coagulation in the artery and tlie sac, tliere is often sudden pain in the pai't, as well as abrupt cessation of the pulsation, bruit, and thrill in the tumour, and a sudden failure in the circulation in the part beyond, shown by coldness, pallor, loss of pulse in the arteries, weakness, and numbness. The tumour then gradually shrinks, and meanwhile the anastomotic vessels enlarge, and the circulation in, and function of, the parts beyond are restored. (c) SijfMS and diag^nosis of iiigtuuc of ttic sac ol an aneurysm.—The signs of subcutaneous rupture of the sac of an aneurysm are increase in the size of the tumour, with loss of its definite outline—due to the escape of blood around the sac—and diminished or abolished pulsation in the tumour, for the pulsation depends upon the resistance of the sac. If the rupture is small a mere leak—these are all the signs it presents, and the rapid enlarge- ment of the swelling is distinguished from that caused by growth of the aneurysm by the less clear outline of the swelling, and by the diminished, instead of increased, pulsation. If the extravasation of blood is more extensive, but is still surrounded by a spurious sac, there is noticed a sudden increase in size of the tumour, which presents very little, if any, pulsation, and perhaps both bruit and thrill are lost. The coagulation of the blood in the tissues may make the swelling firmer in places, and the tumour ill-defined. It increases rapidly, and when it reaches the skin, it points, and often fluctuates like an abscess before it bursts. Such a rupture is attended with pain, the circulation in the parts below is consider- ably interfered with, the pulse in the arteries is very weak or lost, the veins are full, and the cellular tissue is cedematous. The pressure on the nerves makes the parts benumbed and heavy or motionless. When a wide rupture of the sac occurs, and the blood is poured freely into the tissues, the patient usually experiences a sudden acute pain in the part, and he turns cold, pale, and faint. The parts about the aneurysm become very greatly swelled, livid, and cold ; all pulsation, oruit, and thrill are lost. The ai’teries below are pulseless, and the tissues livid, cedematous, and insensitive, and quickly become gangrenous from entire arrest of the circulation. The signs, in fact, are two : those of severe internal haemorrhage, and the rapid accumu- lation of blood in the tissues under such pressure that all circulation in the parts is stopped. There is no local heat or other evidence of inflammation. The three degrees of rupture here indicated might be distinguished as “leaking,” “diffusion,” and “rupture” of an aneurysm. (d) Signs and diagnosis ol suppuration of an anciirysui. —The inflammatory oedema around the aneurysm causes an increase in the swelling, which obscures the outline of the tumour, and makes the pulsation, bruit, and thrill less apparent. At the same time the part is hot, red, acutely painful, tender, and it pits on pressure. There are also a high temperature, and the other phenomena of acute inflammatory fever. When pus forms, the swelling fluctuates and “ points ” ; and when it is evacuated, chocolate-coloured pus.