INJURIES OF BONES. 852 thought to repress tlie upper fragment. There are many ob- jections to the long splint. It is uncomfortable, and tends to ride forwards and inwards; this is met to some extent by dropping the lower end into a vertical slot, and by using a broad strap instead of a body bandage. The dorsum of the foot and, still more, the perineal region may get soi-e; the latter always gets very foul. The tendency of the bandage is to draw both fragments out to the splint, thus altering the shape of the femur (Fig. 286), and the perineal band and spica pull the upper fragment forwards and out- wards. If the foot is firmly bandaged, and the splint kept vertical, rotatory deformity should result. (3) The long splint and Scotch sheet are an improvement on the above. A plain board of the above dimensions is used simply to fix the joints. Four short splints are buckled round the thigh. Fig. 299.—Treatment of a fractured Thigh by short side Splints of newspaper and extension between the ring and foot bar of a Tlioinas’s knee-splint. A firm bandage should be c.arried round both splint and limb from above tlie heel to the ring. and the limb is slung to the splint by the “ Scotch sheet,” as shown in Fig. 298. A broad bandage binds the splint to the body. Weight extension from the limb can be added. The splint is kept in position by being dropped into a vertical slot. The only advan- tage of this apparatus over extension and short splints is that the movements of an unruly patient are, to some extent, controlled; and discomfort is in proportion to the control exercised. (4) Thomas’s knee-splint.—Extension straps are adjusted. Short side splints, which are very comfortable when made of newspapers, are buckled round the fracture, shortening and rotatory deformity being first corrected. Then the splint is put on, pushed up firmly against the tuber, and the shoulder strap is buckled. The extension straps are now drawn tight and wound round the foot-piece or a special bar; a firm bandage round splint and limb finishes. When everything is satisfactory a silicate bandage may be applied, rendering the apparatus “ permanent.” In this the limb is most securely fixed, and the whole can be moved about freely (Fig. 299). The part may be left lyinar or slun^f in a Salter’s cradle, and this .should be