Injuries of rlood-vessels. 5lfi away from the bleeding point. To obtai7i success, the wound should be carefully dried, and the styptic immediately applied to the actual bleeding-point w'ith sufficient pressure for a few minutes to control the flow of blood. The most frequently used styptics are powdered alum, pei’sulphate of iron, tanrun, or gallic acid, the solid stick of nitrate of silver, and solutions of alum, matico, perchloride or persulphate of iron, and turpentine. They are of service chiefly in bleeding from cavities, as the mouth, nose, and uterus, where other means are difficult to apply, and in parenchymatous haemorrhage from fungating tumours. Turpentine, acetate of lead, the astringent salts of iron, and ergot are given internally, with a view of causing contraction of arteries and “ increased coagulability ” of the blood. 5. Tlie cautery is a very power- ful haemostatic. It acts in one of two ways. In some cases, especially in very large arteries, it chars the end of the wounded vessel into a tough, solid eschar, which closes over the lumen of the artery, and on the inner surface of which the blood quickly coagulates (Fig. 139). Very often, however, a very remarkable effect is produced. At the first touch of the cautery the end of the artery is narrowed and folded up within the vessel, and with the further contact of the hot metal the end of the vessel is completely inverted, and this inversion ijicreases rapidly until its further is arrested by undivided branches of the artery. This inversion is unattended with any separation of the coats, and it forms a very firm closure of the vessel: it is well shown in Fig. 140. Paquelin’s cautery is the most convenient form to be at a black or dull-red heat, and be applied accurately to the bleeding point, and held in contact udth it for some moments. Neglect of these precautions often leads to failure; for a bright red or a white heat is not haemo- static, and it can easily be demonstrated outside the body that the closure of an artery by the cautery takes many seconds, the time varying with the size of the vessel. The cautery is chiefly employed i'll parenchjnnatous oozing. Fia.139.—Large Artery closed by the Cau- tei-y, sbowing all tbe coats of the artery ebarred into anesebarover its end. pi’ogress ^ig. 140. — Mediiun- sized Artery closed by tbe Cautery, showing tbe whole artery inverted. use. It should in hemorrhage from sloughing surfaces in which a ligature will not hold, in some other cases where ligature is difficult or impossible, as after removal of the upper jaw, and to seal the vessels in the pedicles of tumours—especially internal piles. The eschar produced by the cautery is aseptic. 6. Fofciprcssiire has superseded to a very great extent both Fig. 141. — Forciprea- sure For- ceps.