949 WOUNDS OF JOINTS. In some instances effusion long persists, with painfulness of the joint, and imperfect restoration of its functions (chronic spi-ain). In such cases, one or more painful spots are usually to be detected on pressui'e about the joint, these being’ probably due to the entangle- ment of nerve filaments in the healed tissue. In such cases, the administration of nitrous oxide gas and the carrying of the limb through all its normal movements will result in the audible rupture of adhesions and the setting free of the nerve twigs, the symptoms rapidly improving. The surgeon will find valuable indications as to the time to commence movement in a sprained joint from the local temperature. So long as a joint is hot, caution must be exercised. When it is coo! to the touch, movements may be freely adopted. After a bad spraiiT a large joint is painful and insecure for many months, owing to the weakness of the ligaments from rupture, and the impairment of movement and functions of the tendons in their sheaths. Nothing is so beneficial for these cases as prolonged massage, with tonics and sea air, and carefully-made leather supports. Injuries of the tendon sheaths in sprains.—Hitherto enough attention has not been drawn to the condition of these important structures in severe sprains or blows upon joints. Blood is extravasated into the ^novial sheaths, with serous exud^ion. The Mbsequeht organisation impedes the free play of the tendon, and this explains the extraordinary stiffness and weakness of a joint which may persist for months after a bad sprain. Again, the fibrous vincula which retain the tendon in a groove may give way, allowing actual displacement. This is well known to occur in the case of the peroneal tendons, and it may reasonably be assumed that it occurs elsewhere. Tlie most cautious prognosis must be given in a bad sprain, especially in a large joint of the lower extremity and in those who are obese, aged, rheumatic, or gouty. The majority of these cases may be looked upon as more serious than fractures. Wounds of joints.—These are peculiai'ly dangerous injuries. The gravity of the case will be in proportion to the size and synovial complexity of the articulation involved, the nature of the apd the cleanliness or otherwise of the instrument with which it is inflicted. Serious examples would be a bullet wound of the knee splintering the bone, or the opening of this articulation with a dirty butcher’s knife. An example of a favourable kind would be the clean-cut, aseptic wound into the knee made by a surgeon in removing a loose body, which usually heals with no local trouble or constitutional disturbance. Symptonis.—It is in punctured wounds that the main difficulty arises in deciding whether the articulation is opened, and especially IS thk the case when the external orifice of the wound is situate at a distance from the joint. Two symptoms of the gravest signi- ficance are, escape_of_Bynovia, and rapid swelling of the joint from effused blood. Synovial fluid may escape from a wounded bursa or tendon sheath; but this symptom should always lead to great care in