1097 ANGIIYLOSTS OF HIP. operative interference is contra-indicated on account of the degene- rative nature of the initial disease. Faulty anchylosis of the hip.—In cases in which destructive disease of the hip has been followed by recovery without operation, the position of the joint is often extremely faulty. Most usually it is strongly flexed, adducted, and inverted. The reasons for this mal- position have been given above (page 1083), and we need only add that in addition to what may be called the pathological grounds for the displacement, there are also natural reasons. In the first place a child who has had disease in the hip, even after all active change has ceased, will find the most comfortable position one of flexion. For instance, most children, and, indeed, adults, lie in bed with the thighs flexed—few of us lie straight out in bed all night. That is to say, that for eight or nine hours out of the twenty-four the joint is flexed. If consolidation be going on at this time the fibrous tissue is likely to adapt itself to this position. And during the waking hours it will be always irksome, to say the least, to bring the joint into a straight line again. It therefore tends to get a “ set ” in the flexed position, and to become firm in it. Again, during the day such patients will remain seated for a considerate time, and they can only do so with the thighs partly flexed. These two reasons for the assumption of the position of flexion are constantly at work, and it is not to be wondered at that the patient recovering from hip joint disease with anchylosis is frequently found to have the limb in a very faulty position for progression. It is usually flexed and adducted. Ti'caiiiiciit.—The question now arises, can anything be done to improve this condition; and if so, ought it to be undertaken, and how 1 The answer to this is that we should only make the attempt to remedy the anchylosis when the displacement is extreme, and when all traces of active disease have disajDpeared. Further, unless we have a reasonable prospect of securing a movable false joint by our operation, we had better abstain from all interference, except in extreme cases. For to obtain a fully extended hip which is quite rigid is a doubtful benefit. For with it the patient camiot sit down with comfort, and this has many inconveniences, e.g. during defecation, etc., and these will more than counterbalance the advantages of being able to walk somewhat better. We should, therefore, in every case aim at pro- ducing a movable joint, and only operate in extreme cases. Several modes of operation for bony anchylosis have been pro- posed and practised, differing principally in the position in which the bone is divided. Probably the best is that in which the neck of the femur is sawn across as near the acetabulum as possible. This is effected with a narrow-bladed saw, introduced to the front of the neck through a small incision made above the trochantei-. When the bone is divided, it may be well to dig out a hollow repre- senting the acetabulum into wliich the stump of the neck can be laid and turn in between the cut surfaces a flap of muscle or tendon in order to prevent the union of the surfaces by bony ti.ssue. In any case every effort should be made by passive motion and by