665 LYMPHANGITIS. and discharge their contents, or may form dilated pouches at the site of the valves in which the lymph remains stagnant.^ In this way may be accounted for many instances in which chyle is found to be miimled with the lymph flowing from fistulse in the groin or scrotum, or passed by the natural passages with the urine, and occasionally poured out in large quantities into the peritoneum. From whatever cause an obstruction to the lymphatic circulation may arise, it is attended by a hypertrophied condition of the limb below, causing it to assume a permanent enlargement, due mainly to a solid oedema of the cellular tissue. The skin may remain smooth or brawny, or may become rough and coated with a thick incrusta- tion of epithelium, which resembles the condition seen in elephanti- asis Arabum. Repeated attacks of inflammation of an erythematous character are prone to involve all the tissues, and leave the enlarge- ment greater than before. Angeioleucitis or lymphangitis.—These terms are applied to an inflammation occurring in the lymphatic vessels, as a result of the entrance into their channels of some irritant and probably septic product. This may originate in the tissues from which the lymphatic- radicles arise: as, for example, from the irritation of a blister, the application of iodine, or even from sunburn. Lymphangitis is a frequent concomitant of erysipelas, especially in its milder and cuta- neous forms. Acute inflammation of lymphatics is much rnort- frequent in young adults and children than in old people; but in those debilitated by excesses, or alcohol, or in the subjects of Bright’s disease, it occurs on very slight provocation. But the more usual source of origin is the direct absoi’ption of a morbid material through an abrasion, often slight and unperceived, such as a scratch, or prick, into which the septic products of some decomposing tissue have found entrance. Thus it is of fre- quent occurrence amongst butchers and fishmongers, or amongst those engaged in dissecting or conducting post-mortem examinations, and especially where these duties entail contact with septic or much decomposed tissues. In a wound where suppuration is free and drainage is secured, as from the flaps of an amputation, absorption does not take place, since the current of discharge from the granu- lations sets in the opposite direction; but when the pus is confined by a scab or by any form of dressing, such as collodion, the lymphatics may readily become inflamed by the material which they convey. Thus it is not uncommon to find it occur as the sequel to a small pustule or the sting of an insect, and it will even result when the skin of the hand is brought in contact with some particularly viru- lent material when no abrasion can be detected. An example of tuberculous lymphangitis is shown in Fig. 62, page 341. Paftiolog-y.—The exciting cause of this affection is undoubtedly the entrance into the lumen of the vessels of some septic alkaloid (ptomaine), derived from decomposing tissues or from a parasitic micro-organism which has gained access to the wounded part This