DISEASES OF JOINTS. 1036 become thickened and shrunken, and has lost its elasticity a,nd smooth surface, and the subsequent movements of the articulation are impaired. It is well, therefore, not to delay aspiration or incision too long. Much of this stiffness may be removed after all inflammation has subsided by regular massage and slightly-forced passive movements. Active movement, too, should not be put oil too long, but should be gently and cautiously employed. It is very rare for such a simple attack of acute synovitis, due to injury, cold, or wet, to terminate, in actual suppuration, but it is possible in individuals who are in bad health, or who have been living under vicious hygienic conditions. In this case there is probably a septic element in operation, the local injury only determining the spot at which this septic matter in the blood shall find a suitable soil for its development. If such suppuration do take place as indicated by rigors, marked cedema, and redness of the part, and very high body temperature, the sooner the joint is “"eely opened, drained, and washed out, the better. The incisions sooum be made in the axis of the limb on both sides, towards the back part of the lateral pockets, and should be tolerably free. The pus should then be washed out with a stream of sterilised water, or 1 in IaUD solution of perchloride of mercury, 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid, and should then be drained with a tube on both sides. Such joints thus treated may recover their functions completely if the oper^ion has been done before the cartilages and other surfaces have been extensively ulcerated or covered with organised lymph. 2 Simple subacute synovitis.—Here the causes operating are often the same, and differ only in degree. The vascMar excitement is less, and therefore no redness of the skin, very little swelhng of the soft parts, and but slight effusion of synovium into the joint are * present. The fluid in such a case is clear and thin, and contams few or no corpuscular elements. Pain is present in no marked de<^ree, and there is but little alteration in the position of the joint, which may be handled without giving rise to any suffering. 1 le chief complaint of the patient is that the joint feels stifl These subacute cases are treated on the same (reneral principles as the acute, but with less ey require, however, close attention, for if neglected the aflection is S to become chronic, and is then very troublesome. In the iMtial stage leeches and the application of cold are advisable, and when all heat has disappeared the part must be ^hsteied freely Of course, absolute rest is secured by splints suite to L joint, or by position when the patient is confined to bed The chief difficulty in these cases, as a rule, is tiie removal of the fluid from the joint, and the P^f ^^on re-accumulation. For, even without any return the tendency in these cases is towards re-secvetion of . synovium. ^Either the vascularity of the synovial ‘ remains slightly above normal, or its absorbents are in soi < y