63 SYMPTOMS. The exciting causes of acute inflammation come, for the most part, from without, and they may be divided into two groups, from the point of view of treatment—namely, firstly those which are momentary in their action or are removable, and secondly those which cannot be readily got rid of. In the first group of cases wo have such things as injury, which may be either of a mechanical or chemical nature. As regards mechanical injuries to the tissues, these are usually only momentary in their action, and it is seldom—unless they have caused actual death of a portion of the tissue, which may then act as a foreign body—that the inflammation produced by mechanical injuries goes so far as the stage of granulation. In most cases the inflammation subsides before this period has arrived, and resolution is the result. Chemical substances applied to the tissues, and constantly renewed, may carry on the inflammation to the stage of granulation ; but it is comparatively seldom that these substances come into pltiy in ordinary circumstances. Again, the presence of foreign bodies—such as bullets, pieces of dead bone or tissue, etc. —are also causes of inflammation under certain circumstances, and may lead to the destruction of the tissue and the formation of granulation tissue. With regard to the second group of cases, by far the most common cause of acute inflammation is the growth of micro-organisms in the tissues of the aflTected part; and as these micro-organisms generally carry the inflammation to a further stage than gi’anulation—for example, to suppuration—we need not consider them here in detail. {See Art. III.) It is these micro-organisms which I have grouped under the head of irremovable causes, because, at the present time, once they have become established in an inflamed part, we have no certain means of getting rid of them. The symptoms of acute inflammation.—The symptoms of acute inflammation are both local and general. (a) Liocal symptoms.—The local symptoms are always described in text-books as four in number; namely, redness, swelling, heat, and pain. These four, when they occur together, always imply the presence of an inflammatory process; but, occurring separately, they do not necessarily possess this significance. For instance, redness alone may be due to dilatation of the blood-vessels, quite apart from any inflamma- tory change—that is to say, from any suspension of function in the blood-vessels—as occurs after division of the sympathetic nerve in the neck, where the blood-vessels of the ear become greatly dilated, and the ear itself becomes intensely red, but no other phenomena of inflam- mation result, because the vessel walls are healthy. Swelling, also, does not of itself indicate inflammation, because many swellings are due to new growths of various kinds; and the increased heat of the part and the pain are also not necessarily indicative of inflammation. Wlien, however, the whole four .symptoms are combined, it is almost certain that we have to do with an acute inflammatory process, the only exception being some very rare cases of sarcomata growiim excessively rapidly. In the first place, where the inflammation is superficial, the skin