DISEASES OF JOINTS. 1100 laxatives or brisk purges, according to the patient’s condition. To this may be added the administration of tartarised antimony in doses of about one-sixteenth of a grain every three hours ad nauseam in sthenic cases. Locally, the joint must be treated by absolute rest in the first place. This is best secured by a back splint of a kind to fix the limb in the extended position, and at the same time to leave the knee free for the application of various antiphlogistics. The Macintyre splint fulfils all these conditions; but where it is not at hand, a straight back splint of wood will serve all the purposes required. It is well, however, not forcibly to extend the joint in the first instance, but to bring it down to a straight line gradually. For the relief of local congestion leeches are in some cases an excellent remedy, half a dozen being applied in various parts of the front of the joint, followed by hot fomentations. In milder attacks an ice-bag laid on the front and sides of the knee at the outset will check the local inflammation, and give relief from pain sooner than anything else. In some cases without using leeches great relief is given by the application of belladonna and glycerine and hot fomentations. By one or more of these means the inflammation is soon brought to a standstill, and nothing is left but stiffness and some tender- ness. This is best relieved by massage and gentle passive motion. But in the case of unhealthy young individuals we must exercise the greatest caiition in allowing the limb to be used before all congestion is relieved, remembering how readily tuberculous disease is grafted on a part damaged by inflammation. If there be any doubt as to this infection the limb should be immobilised for long periods, and the patient should be given all the benefits of fresh air at the seaside, with tonics, cod-liver oil, and all the other general and local remedies mentioned above (page 1049). Acute suppurative synovitis is best treated by free incision and washing-out of the joint with warm sterilised water or one of the numerous antiseptic lotions, care being taken that the germicide employed be not strong enough to irritate the surfaces of the joint. The incisions in such a case should be placed on either side of the joint and towards the posterior aspect of the lateral pockets of the synovial membrane. These incisions should be carefully kept open with some form of drainage apparatus, not necessarily a tube, but often a strip of gauze. It is remarkable what excellent results as regards the functions of the joints are obtained in such cases, provided the part be opened early and freely even when the cause has been some form of septic infection, such as pyaemia in one of its milder forms. I have lately heard from a gentleman in America, upon whom I performed this operation some years ago for extensive septic suppuration of the knee. The joint is now perfectly restored, and is as good as its fellow by the patients account. In the more severe attacks of pyicmic inihumnation, the geuenU