129 DRY GANGRENE. setiology. Clinically, we speak of two forms of gangrene, namely, moist gangrene and dr%j gangrene. ^tiologically, we speak of three forms of gangrene, namely, (1) direct gangrene, where the part which dies is the one which has been immediately acted on by the noxious agent; (2) indirect gan- grene, where the death of the tissue takes place at some distance from the cause which leads to it; and (3) specific forms of gangrene, which are due to special micro-organisms. Of these two classifications, by far the most important from a practical point of view, especially from the point of view of treat- ment, is the aetiological, and I shall therefore base my description on it. It will, however, save a good deal of repetition and make the matter clearer if, in the first place, I describe the clinical classification into moist and dry gangrene, and mention the chief characteristics of these two forms. The terms “dry” and “moist” express the essential clinical feature of the two types. In dry gangrene the part which dies dries up, without any marked putre- factive changes. In moist gangrene, on the other hand, death of the tissue has occurred before the evaporation of fluid has gone on to any considerable extent, and the result is that the essential features of moist gangrene are the putrefactive changes in the dead part as the result of the growth in it of various micro-organisms. Dry gangrene.—This form is also spoken of as senile gan- grene because it occurs more especially in old persons, seldom before forty years of age. In this form the dead part dries up and becomes hard, the fat becomes liberated from the cells and infiltrates the tissue, so that the surface of the dead part becomes greasy, while, as the result of the fat soaking into the skin, it becomes more or less transparent, and ten- dons and other structures may be seen through it. Dry gangrene spreads very slowly, otherwise, of course, the part would not be dry, and it is generally due to a somewhat gradual dimi- nution in the calibre of the vessels leading to the dying part. As the ordinary putrefactive changes do not take place, the odour from the part is comparatively slight, though there is generally a distinctly musty smell. This form of gangrene usually begins in the lower extremity, especially in the toes, and may appear spontaneously after some slight scratch. It goes on very slowly. Sometimes months may elapse before a F Fig. 2i.—Case of Dry Gangrene (senilt). The pro- cess had gone on for about eight weeks hefort the photograph was taken.