414 SYPHILIS. centre. These nodules often coalesce later, and a spreading line of infiltration is produced, which has a crescentic, annular, or horse- shoe shape. Cicatrisation may occur spontaneously or uiider treat- ment at one part, whilst the disease spreads at its margins (hence the term serpiginous or creeping) (Fig. 87). Small characteristic gummata may be present at the same time, but generally these are absent, and the resemblance to common lupus is very close. The margin of the nasal aperture, the lips, and forehead, are particularly prone to be affected with the syphilitic form, and sometimes the arrangement is exactly like that of erythematous lupus, i.e. the patches involve the nose and each cheek. But no part of the body is exempt, and the back of the trunk, the buttocks, and the genital regions are very often affected. The following chief points in diagnosis between common lupus and its syphilitic imitation may be enumerated :— Age of first occur- rence. Region affected Multiplicity ... Form and colour, etc. Lupus Vulqabis. Usually in childhood or under twenty years. (Many ex- ceptions to this.) Especially the cheeks and nose —those parts most exposed to the air. Progress, Scars left Other symptoms, his tory, etc. Generally occurs in one or two patches with, perhaps, satellites around them. The lupus patch consists of a number of small nodules, pink and often semi-trans- lucent in colour (like apple- jelly). Very slowly destructive; only heals as a rule after vigor- ous local treatment, and tends to relapse very often. Perhaps thick, tight, and con- gested ; liable to ulcerate afresh. Often history of phthisis m family. Syphilitic Lupus. Adult life (in the case of acquired syphilis only). May occur on any part of the body, but often affects the parts men- tioned. lilore tendency to he multiple and widely scattered. More extensive infiltration, often of crescentic out- line, and brownish-red or coppery in hue. Extends much more rapidly, hut may heal spon- taneously in parts; and when once cured does not readily relapse. Supple, thin, and white. Other signs of syphilis, and probably history of secondaries can be ob- tained. It must be admitted that in some cases the local signs insufficient, and that the effect of treatment must be tried to the diagnosis. A few weeks’ administration of combined and iodides with the use of iodoform or oleate of inercuiy^ locally, will usually cause syphilitic lupus to heal entire y , and then it is necessary to cauterise the patches, whils are quite complete mercury ointment but now in some