413 TERTIARY SYPHILIS. effusion. They are decidedly prone to relapse. Fig. 86 shows the scarring due to this cause in a woman with tertiary syphilis, who had no other gummata, but who had more than one relapse of the disease round her right knee-joint, causing considerable limitation of movement with some synovitis. Complications of syphilitic ulcers.—If a tertiary syphilitic ulcer takes on rapid destructive action, with foul sanious discharge, and angry-looking edges, the term phagedmna is applied to it. ^ Should such an ulcer be situated near a blood-vessel, there is serious risk from hsemorrhage. Phagedaenic tertiary ulcers are chiefly met with in patients who are debilitated by the severity of their syphilis or by injudicious treatment, or by alcoholism, bad feeding, etc. They may, however, occasionally occur without any such possible explanation. Tonics, such as good doses of quinine, and nutritious diet, should be employed as well as the iodides or mercury ; and the vigorous use of antiseptic fomentations or baths will probably check the destructive tendency. In some situations—e.y. the buttock or vulva—immersion for long” periods in weak antiseptic baths may be required. Iodo- form has a considerable power in checking phagedsena, and opium given internally is praised by some writers. Cauterisation (with the acid nitrate of mercury) of the base and edges is reserved for those cases which resist the milder measures given above, and will be very rarely required. Supervention of epithelioma. —This is only to be feared in those Fig. 87.—Serpiginous Tertiary Syphilide (Syphilitic Lupus) of the Arm. The centre of the patch has cicatrise', whilst the edge is cohered with scab. cases of tertiary ulcers of the skin which have lasted long—many months or years —and is decidedly rare. In the case of the mucous membrane of the mouth and tongue, however, tertiary syphilitic lesions show a much greater tendency to pass into epithelioma— a most important pathological and clinical fact. 2. Sei'pig:inoiis tertiary syi>liili<les and syphilitic lu- pus.—One very chai’acteristic lesion takes the form of a raised infiltration of the skin, generally of a brownish-red colour, occurring as isolated nodules, which tend to form pustules or to scab over their