224 WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. surface in contact with tlie epithelial-covered surface will not heal (Fig. 40). In such a case it is necessary to dis.sect away the in- verted edge, or the epithelial-covered surface, so as to have two raw surfaces opposed to each other. (c) Where the ed^es of the skin cannot be bron^lit together.—It is not always possible to bring the edges of the skin together after operation. For example, in many cases it is necessary to remove such a large amount of skin that an open wound must be left, and in these circumstances the best method of healing to aim at is healing by blood clot. After the operation has been finished, and the wound closed as far as possible, the remainder should be allowed to fill with blood. If the bleeding has been too freely arrested, some parts should be scratched so as to furnish the blood, care being taken not to pour fiuids into the wound, otherwise the coagulation of this blood might be interfered with. Hence, when the wound has been inflicted and stitched up with the various precautions that have been described, a little bleeding should be allowed to go on, and a piece of protective which has been dipped first in 1 to 20 carbolic lotion, and then subsequently in weak sublimate solution, is placed over the open part of the wound, overlapping the skin all around. Outside this the ordinary gauze and wool dressings are applied, and the wound is left at rest for ten or fourteen days. The result is that underneath the protective the blood coagulates, and this coagulum is not further irritated; and here, of course, especial care must be taken to prevent any move- ment of the part. Cells very quickly penetrate into this clot, and in the manner previously described (page 206) develop into fibrous tissue, and if organisms be carefully excluded and the dressing be changed very seldom, and irritation of the surface of the clot be avoided, it will be found after a few weelcs that the place of the clot has been taken by organising fibrous tissue, and that towards the surface epithelium has spread across and formed a cicatrix. In cases where wounds are veiy large, however, healing by blood clot would imply a long period of time, and in such cir- cumstances it is best to get immediate healing by means of skin- grafting. If Thiersch’s method of skin-grafting be employed in the manner previously described (page 117), these grafts adhere appa- rently quite as readily to the freshly-cut wound as they do to the scraped surface of an ulcer, and, therefore, on the termination of an operation the wound may at once be completely covered wdth skin grafts in the manner already detailed. If these wounds become septic from some accidental occurrence during or after the operation, the symptoms are somewhat the same as those where sepsis has taken place in an incised wound; but unless the wound is large, or unless some specific virus, such as that of erysipelas, has entered, they are not nearly so severe. The tem- perature rises to some extent and only falls gradually, while the patient complains of pain in the wound, which becomes red and swollen, and very quickly covered with granulation tissue and