155 FAT EMBOLISM. patient should be placed on a table which is heated by hot water, and at the conamencement of the operation about ^ grain of strychnine should be injected subcutaneously, and if the con- dition of shock be manifest during the course of the operation, this, or a smaller dose, combined with ether, should be repeated. Some have advocated the transfusion of saline solutions in large quantities during shock, but I cannot myself think that this is likely to do veiy much good. The condition of shock ^ being due to exhaustion of the spinal cord, and often accompanied by paralysis of the vaso-motor nerves, the additional non-nutritive fluid introduced by means of transfusion will only accumulate in the already over-distended vessels and will not tend to improve either the nutrition of the cord or to increase the blood-pres- sure. Where, however, shock is combined with loss of blood, no doubt such treatment may be of advantage, but probably as much good will be done by injecting two or three pints of saline solution into the rectum as by transfusing it directly into the blood, because in these cases of hsemorrhage absorption of fluid takes place with great rapidity from all parts. Where this condition of shock lasts for some hours, coagulation of the blood in the pulmonary vessels is very apt to occur, and thus prevent the recovery of the patient, and no doubt with the view of preventing that complication transfusion may be of benefit. Secondary shock.—The condition which was formerly described as secondary shock is probably—apart from the delayed form which I have already referred to—really a condition of septic intoxication. The usual history of these cases is that the patient in the first instance suffered from shock after the operation. After he recovered from this shock his temperature rose, and then he suddenly and very quickly passed again into a somewhat similar condition of shock about twenty-four hours later. In most cases this second appearance of shock is coincident with extensive putrefaction of blood contained in the wound, and is no doubt due to septic intoxication. This view is strengthened in my mind by the fact that although I have seen unfortunately a good many cases of shock after operations, I have not met with this condition which was formerly described as being of common occurrence. i'at embolism.—In connection with certain injuries and wounds, more especially with such as concern the bones, fat embolism may be met with. In this condition, fat enters into the circulation and forms emboli in various organs, particularly in the lungs and in the brain. As a matter of fact, it is now well known that after all fractures fat enters the circulation and is excreted with the urine, being found in it in considerable quantities, two or three days after the injury; but it is only where the fat enters in such excessive quantities as to cause dangerous blocking of numerous minute vessels that the condition of fatty embolism assumes any importance, This condition may come on either immediately after the injury, or (where suppuration takes place) after the establishment of the