365 MORBID ANATOMY. disturbance of the normal ossification leading to permanent shorten- inff which, in the case of such bones as the femur and Immerus, may amount to a quarter of their proper proportional length "periosteum of rickety bones is soft, reddened from increased vascularity, thickened, and when stripped from the bone is rougli and irregular, bearing numerous spicules and fraf^ments of ill-formed osseous tissue on its inner aspect. Beneath it are found a varying number of concentric layers of reddish or pale spongioid bone, resembling pumice-stone in consistence, which can be readily cut without injury to the knife. When the disease is far advanced, tissue of this nature, completely unossified, may occupy the whole thickness of the bone between periosteum and meduUary cavity, and also more or less fill up the concavity of any curvature existing. In this condition and its degrees, the ease with which curvatures or fractures from sbght degrees of violence may occur is readily understood; while the abnormal thickness of the periosteum explains the tendency to fractm’e of the green-stick variety, and the softness of the bone to the frequent inability to ehcit ordinary crepitus during life. The earhest gross changes are, however, noted in the epiphyses. These are enlarged, thickening existing both on the proximal and distal sides of the line of cartilage. On section, the cartilage is semi-transparent or gelatinous-looking, reddish from abnormal vascularisation, and irregular at the peri- phery, in place of maintaining the normal even line (Big. 71). Microscopic examination shows the deeper or osteogenetic layer of the periosteum to be chiefly afi'ected, and the layers of spongioid bone beneath to consist of calcified islets, arranged radially to the sur- face of the diaphysis. Between the islets of bone are large red medullary spaces. In the earlier stages of the disease these changes are limited to a superficial layer, ensheathing normal bone; but the latter may gradually disappear with the progress of the disease, and the natural process of modelling and enlargement by absorption from within. A similar layer of spongioid bone may then line, or more or less completely obliterate the meduUary canal. The epiphyses present the following abnorma appearances on microscopic examination (Fig. 72). The cartilage cells are seen to have multiplied in an excessive Fig. 71.—Section of Bicketiy Femur, showing curves and irregularity of epi- physial cartilage. (St. Thomas’s Hospital Mu- seum.)