636 ANEURYSM. uication, and become interrupted, and synchronous with the pulse. If the limb be raised the tumour shrioiks, and the pulsation becomes less marked j if the artery leading to it is compressed, the tumour not only loses its pulsation, but shrinks and disappears. When the limb is depressed the tumour becomes very Jull, and the pulsation in it is more marked. I’lie dilated condition of the artery above the varix is sometimes quite apparent. The condition of the limb below varies in different cases, probably with the freedom of the communi- cation with the artery, and the extent to which the circulation is interfered with. It may be cold and cedematous, with a feeble pulse, or it may be hotter and hypertrophied ; obstinate ulcers with a tendency to bleed sometimes occur. The patient may suffer acute pain in the tumour, or experience only a sense of numbness and weakness in the limb below. It is often noticed that the symjitoms in- crease up to a certain point, and then re- main stationary. A scar over the swelling generally points to the nature of the case. Treatment.—In many cases all that is required is to apply some form of external support to the part— a bandage or an elastic stocking—for the condition remains stationary and causes very trifling inconvenience. If the varix steadily increases, or the patieirt suffers serious inconvenience from the pain or the effects of the disturbance in the circulation, the artery should be ligatured above and below its communication with the vein. In a case of aneurysmal varix in Hunter’s canal Mr. Lawson tied the artery above and below the communication with the vein, and the patient made a rapid and complete recovery. In the days when this affection was more common such an operation was fraught with dangers from which it can now be guarded, and therefore it was rarely resorted to. Now that the dangers can be avoided the operation is more readily and more often recommended. Varicose aneurysm. Causes.—The most frequent cause of an aneurysm with a communication with a vein (Fig. 183) is the simul- taneous injury of an artery and vein—usually a stab, puncture, gun- shot, or phlebotomy wound. In place of the wounds in the two vessels being sealed up, or cohering together, a circumscribed trau- matic aneurysm develops between them, which communicates with both. An aneurysmal varix may slowly develop into a varicose aneurysm if the tissue uniting the two vessels yields. But such an rig. 183.—Varicose Aneurysm at Elbow. (After Eriobsen.) a. Ulnar artery; b, aneurysm partly flllcd with clot; c. dilatation of median basilic vein.