803 FRACTURES OF THE CLAVICLE. showTi in Fig. 234, with the outer fragment displaced in front of and below the inner, which may be pushed up by it and pulled up by the sterno-mastoid ; the pectoral muscle tending to draw the outer frag- ment towards the humerus. Separation oj the sternal epiphysis.—Few clear cases ai’e recorded of separation of this thin plate of cartilage, which ossifies at 17 to IS and joins at 25. When the injury occurs the inner end of the clavicle appears too prominent, as if dislocated forwards. The main points in the diagnosis are : the age of the patient, the position of the lesion, the sharpness and irregailarity of the inner end of the shaft, and the presence of the thin epiphysial plate still bounding the pre-sternal fossa. In two out of four cases muscular action was the cause assigned. O Conipljcatioiis of fractiii’es of the clavicle.—Fractures of the clavicle are very rarely compound or complicated, even from direct violence other than gunshot; in which case, it is the bullet rather than the fracture that does the mischief. C. Heath recorded a case of “ aneurysm of the suhdavian artery appearing within a month after fracture of the clavicle; the post- mortem seemed to point to a spiculum of callus on the clavicle as the cause of the injury to the artery. Dupuytren, in a lecture, said he had seen two or three cases of “ aneurysm ” following these fractures; but it is impossible clinically to eliminate simultaneous fracture of the first rib. The great veins have in a few cases been injured, and a hajmatoma of great size has rapidly developed. In one instance the extravasa- tion extended from the cheek to the fingers, with slight pulsation and systolic bruit in the supraclavicular region; the "limb became paralysed, and the radial pulse was lost, but reappeared on the •second day when increasing tension of the skin caused Manouiw to incise above the clavicle, compress the vein, and turn out the clots; the patient died of entry of air into the subclavian vein which was torn almost across, the plexus being merely infiltrated. In Sir Robert Peel s case the swelling was similar, but less extensive, l^eel died of concomitant injuries, but recovery has resulted in cases eated with evaporating lotion or gentle elastic pressure calculated to limit the extravasation. If forced to operate, the first incisions should give the freest between the bones being utilised; and circulation in the _bmb below the axiUa should be arrested. richsen amuptated at the shoulder for gangrene, apparently due and removed a depressed fragment which he r . I- theSt/George’s Hospital Museum snlinter ■ tbp the internal jugular vein wounded by a fallincr boimb clavicles and sternum brolcen by a in someTHu^ldn! brachial plexus recorded : ^ ^ 2 noted hyperremia and sometimes