631 tbaumatjg aneurysm. stretched and displaced fasciaj and muscles. Such a condition is known as a diffused traumatic aneurysm. In many other cases the escape S blofd is smaller, slower, and later after the primary injury. Around the clots that form a spurious sac is developed by the inflammation excited by the extravasated blood, and by the plastic processes of the healing of the primary wound. This sac grows and yields under the pressure of the blood, and sometimes it bursts, and the condition comes to resemble that just described, or even that of a ruptured artery. The firmness of the sac, and the amount of clot which forms within it, to strengthen it and lessen the pressure upon it are very important elements in determining the progress of the case. When healing of the wound has advanced considerably before the external pressure is relaxed, so as to allow the blood to escape from the wounded artery, a firmer sac forms around the clot than when the aneurysm begins to form earlier. The presence of tense and strong fascim near the artery also affects the strength of the sac formed. These aneurysms, which are limited by a distinct sac, are called circumscribed traumatic aneurysms. In no case of traumatic aneurysm does the arterial wall take any part in forming the sac. Course and terminations.—A circumscribed traumatic aneurysm, if the sac is firm and strong, may undergo spontaneous cure in the same manner as a spontaneous aneurysm. But owing to the imperfect formation of the sac, there is a great danger of the aneurysm enlarging, and of the sac yielding, either to form a diflfused aneurysm, or so freely as to lead to that widespread extravasation, best called a ruptured artery. A diffused traumatic aneurysm, owing to the absence of any resistant sac, tends to grow rapidly, and it ends in one of three ways : (1) It may reach the surface and burst externally, causing severe hsemorrhage, which may be fatal at once, or after repeated recurrences. (2) It may become widely diffused in the part, the effusion of blood not being limited even by clot—ruptured artery. (3) Acute suppurative inflammation may be set up round the collection of blood, and when the abscess bursts, blood-clot and pus in great quantity are discharged, and then profuse htemorrhage occurs, unless, by a rare chance, the artery has been sealed by plastic arteritis. A ruptured artery.—The extravasated blood, unlimited in any way, either ruptures externally, or the tension in the part is sc great that the venous circulation is entirely arrested, and moist gangrene of the part beyond results. Fatal syncope may occur from the subcutaneous hsemorrhage. Symptoms.—A circumscribed trauuBatic aueurysm has all the local characters of a spontaneous sacculated aneurysm; there is in addition a history of a recent injury, and a scar or unhealed wound points to the nature of the case. A diffused traumatic aueurysm varies somewhat in its characters, according to the rapidity of its formation and gi’owth, and the amount of clot around the fluid blood. In all cases it is a rapidly-