lymphobbecea. 6G3 wound Ifc occasionally also arises as the result of obstruction m the Tlands'or vessels clue to inflammatory changes, and is more often met with in the lower than the upper limb. It is characterised by the dischar"e of a thin colourless fluid, which rapidly coagulates into a rrelatinous film. Sometimes the fluid has a milky appearance, leading to the probability of a communication existing with the lacteals or the thoracic duct. The discharge - does not usually proceed from a single spot, but exudes from numerous small vesicles which appear upon the surface of the skin around the site of the ob- struction (Fig. 186). This occurs to a greater extent after exercise, and is intermittent in amount, subsiding when the limb is raised and the patient at rest. In a case recently under my care, which occurred as the result of suppuration of a gland over the saphenous opening during an attack of small-pox, ten ounces were collected in a few hours, and in some instances the quantity is much more profuse. This fluid was examined by Dr. Manson, and pronounced to be chyle-like, and not pure lymph. On analysis it was found to be composed of —water, 95 per cent. ; total solids, 5 per cent. The latter contained 53 per cent, of fat; ash, 47 per cent, (sodium chloride ; traces of phosphates; no sulphates) second examination, six months gave a nearly identical result, case there was obstruction at of the inflamed later Fig. 186.—Lymphon-lioea due to Blocking of Lymphatics. (Lanceroaux.) In this the site gland, but in most - - O ^ other instances there has also been noted some diseased or dilated condition of the lymphatic vessels (lymphangiectasis), which has been evident upon the surface of the skin. The limb below the site of obstruction has sometimes sliown hypertrophy of all its tissues, but in all cases it is considerably enlarged, and the skin is affected with a fibrous hyperplasia. The only treatment consists in raising and bandaging the whole limb, with pressure upon the site of the fistula. All operative pro- ceedings are worse than useless. Dilatation of lymphatic vessels.—The lymphatics are subject to the same congenital affections as the blood-vessels, and give rise to conditions which will be mentioned later (page 678). L<yini>li:t.ug^eioiiiu is the term given to a dilated condition of