TUMOURS OF BONE. Oil histology we may safely assert that if it does return after complete removal, it is almost certainly a chondrifying sarcoma. It is, as a rule, mainly composed of hyaline cartilage, but may have a varying amount of fibrous tissue in its matrix, or may be mixed with other embiyonic tis- sues. In the latter case it is pro- bably a chondrifying sarcoma. Calci- fication or ossification may take place, and the tumour be converted into a cancellous osteoma, which is, as before described, covered with a cartilaginous cap. Fatty or myxomatous change may also ensue, especially in the laro^er growths, when the tumour is called a chondro-myxoma, in winch distinct cystic cavities are often found. Situation. feet they are arising in the the phalanges Fig. 351. — Chondroma of Metacarpal Bone, arising from the Medullaiy Canal, and covered with a thin sliell of bone continuous with that of the shaft. (St. Thomas’s Hospital Museum, No. 586.) great o assume —In the hands and frequently multiple, medullary tissue of and metacarpal or metatarsal bones (Figs. 100, 351). But they are far more frequent in the hands than in the feet. A complete shell or plate of bone may be found upon the surface. When multiple they do not individually grow to any great size, but cause inconvenience from interference with the functions of the hand or foot (page 453). When a chondroma arises from one of the larger bones, it is commonly single, and may then enormous propor- tions (Fig. 352). The scapula, pelvis, or the ends of one of the long bones are the usual sites for one of these growths, but scarcely any bone in the skeleton can be said to be free from the possible de- velopment of a chondroma. (See Fig. 100.) In these situations the tumour gene- rally grows from the peri- osteum, and not from the medulla; but the bone mav be partially absorbed by pressure. Many of these Fig. 852.-Chomlroimi of Humerus which might pos- sibly have been a Chondrifying Sarcoma. (From a plaster cast in St. Tliomas's Hospital Museum 1