807 FB. AG TUBES OF THE SCAPULA. rnorG or loss iiiGsicil to tliG iicroinio-clo-vicubir joint 243j, cind it would lie here should the epiphysis separate. The signs of the injury are—flattening of the shoulder; difliculty in abduction; irregularity on the subcutaneous surface; removal of the deformity on pushing up the humerus, mobility of the fragment, and perhaps crepitus. "The usual treatment is a figure-of-8 bandage under the^ elbow, crossin" on the shoulder, and under the axilla on the opposite side, applied so as to raise the humerus. Better than this is Sayre’s strapping (Figs. 238, 239), no backward traction being made, and the “first” strap being applied after the “second,” and over all. Union is usually fibrous, but the result is good. It would be easy to wire Fig. 242. Fig. 213. Fig. 244. Fig. 242.—A Sonpula repaired after such a Fracture as is sliOAvn in Fig. 244. The lower frag- ment has been drawn forwards by the tei'es muscles, and lies rather behind the upper. Little callus has formed, and there is a small gap in the line of union at one or two sjiots. Fig. 243.—A Sc.apula showing: (1) A fracture of the acromion near tlie spine; (2) a tissure separating the whole coracoid process with the upper end of the glenoid fossa and a bit of the upper edge of the blade ; (3) a fissure running from the above into the blade. Fig. 244.—A Scapula recently fractured transversely below the Spine. the fragments, but, unless the arm were kept abducted for a month, the result would probably be no better. Several specimens without histories have been shown of separation on both sides of a part of this process, with no irregularity or sign of callus, and a plate of “ what looked like cartilage ” intervening. These specimens may have been due to injury, but were probably examples of non-union of the epiphysis. No certain cases of separation of the epiphysis are known. (3) The coi'acoi«l process is so well protected that it is very rai’ely broken. The tip has been torn off by muscular action—e.g. in wringing—but otherwise direct violence has been the cause, both of this fracture (Fig. 245) and of that through the base of the pi’ocess mto the glenoid fossa (Fig. 243). Separation of the process by direct violence has occurred before its junction with the blade at puberty. The diagnosis is difficult. The most important points are