SYPHILITIC DISEASE OF BONE. y treated by iodide of potassium, whatever be the exact anatomical arid pathological condition present. It is desirable, however, to enforce the doctoine that a gummatous lesion of bone, even if the skin be red and almost perforated, should not be opened. Again and again such swellings have been known to subside under iodide of potassium, in gr. X., gr. xv., or gr. xx. doses three times a day. When they have already opened, the same drug is given in the same or still larger doses for many months. An improvement is produced, and in some cases a cure effected. Occasionally, mercury is found neces- sary before this result is obtained. But in many cases, if a sinus already exists, drugs appear to have little or no effect. Possibly this is due to the previous entrance of pyogenic cocci, which, under the peculiar circumstances of the surrounding sclerosis, cannot be properly dealt with by a healthy granulating barrier. What result a rigid antiseptic dressing would produce it is impossible to say, as the writer knows of no series of cases treated in this way from the moment when contamination could occur. Por no argument would be serviceable for this purpose if the sinus has been exposed some time, even although an operation, such as erasion, has been undertaken. Gummata in other organs have been successfully dealt with by erasion and subsequent careful aseptic dressing. But the peculiarity of the bony structure before mentioned around the central lesion does not make the comparison of much service. Bony lesions of inherited syphilis.—These do not differ much from those of the acquired disease. (See pages 424 and 428.) Large periosteal nodes are not uncommon, but are more likely to be multiple and symmetrical. They are, as a rule, less painful and less amenable to treatment. They are less frequent on the skull, and on the shafts of long bones are often accompanied by a diffused osteitis of the whole bone. (See Pig. 90, page 429.) They sometimes lead to a general enlargement, slight uniform curva- ture, and elongation of such a bone as the tibia. The symmetrical lengthening of the tibia is most characteristic, and the diagnosis can generally be confirmed by old interstitial keratitis, the physioo-nomy of the patient, and the presence of the teeth so familiar to all students of h^ereditary syphilis. These changes are most frequently seen between eight and eighteen years of age. In very young children it is difficult to distinguish between rickets, syphilis, and tuberculosis, so far as the bones are concerned, and the diagnosis is usually made by tlie history and by other lesions which may be present. No definite rule can be laid down for the treatment of these bony lesions of hereditary syphilis, iodide of potassium and mercury are likely to be of service ut sometimes cod-liver oil and iron do more good than anti-syphilitic remedies, pages 426 and 430.) ^ Syphilitic dactylitis occurs both in acquired and in hereditary syphilis. Slight enlargement of one or more phalanges is the first indication of the disease. The whole bone is generally swollen slightly tender. It is most likely to be mistaken, in children