DISLOCATIONS OF TILS HIP. !)!)5 in dislocations, is of course absent. The head of the bone liaving ruptured the capsule inferiorl}'^, and passed into the obturator foramen, what is to determine its furtlier course 1 The answer to this question will be found in the position of the limb, the direction and continuation of the force, aided by the contraction of the muscles. If the abducted femur be flexed and rotated inwards, the head„of the bone, which it may be remembered is always opposite the internal condyle, will pass from the obturator foramen backwards, and if the force be continued in flexion of the thigh, will also pass upwards. Thus are produced tlie dislocations into the vicinity of the sciatic notch, and the dislocation on to the dorsum ilii in more advanced forms. The more the thigh is flexed and rotated inwards, the more will the head of the bone pass directly backwards, and if the flexion be acute enough, and the force continue, there is no reason why the head of the bone should not pass backwards and actually downwards towards the tuber ischii. In moderate flexion of the thigh with inward rotation, the head of the femur will plough its way upwards and backwards from the obturator foramen to the dorsum ilii. According to this view, all backward dislocations of the hiR.jire .primarily below the tendon of the obturator internus, and thcie is no need of the classification of IJigelow, of dislocations above and below the tendon, since the dislocation above it cannot primarily occur. That this is the correct explanation of the mechanism of disloca- tions of the hip, as argued by Fabbri, Tillaux, Ooote, and more recently with undeniable force and clearness by Morris, it is idle to deny. At the same time, it is possible that in exceptional cii-cumstances the head of the bone may be thrust through the posterior part of the capsule, beneath the strong superior fibres by direct violence. In such cases the lip of the acetabulum is usually broken, a portion of bone being carried away with the capsule, attached to the neck of the femur. MacCormac, however, cites one case of direct back- ward dislocation without fracture, and the clinical evidence of this accident is sometimes very suggestive. I have seen the cases of two men, sitting in a railway carriage, with the rio-ht leo' crossed over the left, in the position, therefore, of flexion and adduction. The carriage was smashed in, and both of them sus- tained dorsal dislocations of the femur, with a large hsematoma on tJie tront of the knee, marking the application of the force In such cases, the inference that the head of the femur is thrust out through the posterior part of the capsule, is strong. There was no tracture in either of these cases, which were treated by the ordinary methods of manipulation with success. The advocates of the first tl.cory would here object, that though the thigh was adducted, the ^pelvis might Imve been violently abducted during the crusliing force hiferiorly^ would really burst through the capsule present state of our knowledge it is safe to in the vast G 2 majority of cases, dislocations of the assume hi]) are