643 INNOMINATE ANEUIiYSM. •e upon the bowel may cause signs of obstruction; jaundice, i , ,, . • - i-Uni- vrtOTT Kn r\KcPT*Vf»f] • anaesthetic is a great help in arriving at it. A pulsating aorta is often observed in anaemic women, who at the same time sufier from dyspepsia. This condition is distinguished from aneurysm by noticing the absence of all tumour, that the pulsation can be traced along the line of the artery, that there is no aneurysmal bruit, and tliat when tlie patient lies on her hands and knees, with the abdominal walls relaxed, the hand laid gently over the part does not detect any pulsation. Frecal accumulations over the aorta, and malignant growths of the pylorus, pancreas, or spine are other con- ditions that may simulate aneurysm. Treatment In all cases a prolonged and careful trial of constitutional measures only should be made; this alone may be successful. If it fails, and the aneurysm is so placed that the pad of a tourniquet can be insinuated above it and over the aorta, proximal compression of this artery continued for several hours, and with the patient under the influence of an anaesthetic, should be tried ; this treatment has been fairly successful. Distal compression of the abdominal aorta has not been practised with success. Aneurysm of the innominate artery.—Innominate aneurysm is always spontaneous ; it may be either fusiform or sacculated, and may affect any part or the whole of the artery; aneurysm of the origin of the artery is always associated with dilatation of the arch of the aorta. SjTiiptoms.—The tumour may not project at all and merely give rise to dulness over the sternum and beneath the inner end of the clavicle ; projection of the aneurysm is usually first observed behind the sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and as the tumour grows it displaces this muscle, or the sternum and clavicle, or the trachea. As the tumour increases in size it may grow upwards into the neck over the carotid artery, where it has been known to reach as high as the cricoid cartilage, or backwards and inwards towards the trachea and spine, or outwards along the subclavian artery (Fig. 185). Pouches of the sac may extend in several or all of these directions, but growth outwards is most common. On ausciiltation over the tumour no bruit may be heard, but the heart’s sounds may be very plainly audible. The special symptoms of the aneurysm are alteration of the pulse in the radial and branches of the external carotid artery on the right side, dyspnoea, stridor, and alteration of the voice, dysphagia, cyanosis, and oedema of the right hand and arm, and of the right side of the face, head, and neck; the oedema may extend to the left side of the face also. The patient often experiences pain down the right arm, and weakness in it, from pressure upon the brachial plexus, and shooting pains in the head and neck from irritation of the superficial V 2