804 INJUBIES OF BONES. sweating of the same side of the head and neck, with a rise of 2 to 3° F.; injection of the conjunctiva and lachrymation, flattening of the cornea from diminished intraocular tension, contracted pupil and ptosis—phenomena obviously associated with injury of the sym- pathetic nerve in the neck. Slight exertion sometimes brought out the above symptoms, or the contracted pupil and narrowed palpe- bral fissure might alone be present. Emphysema from wound of the lung has sometunes occurred with fractured clavicle, and become very extensive. , Treatment of fractures of the clavicle.-The bandages and splints for fractured clavicle are very numerous. The most generally useful is Sayre’s strap- ping. Two strips of plaster, as wide as the patient’s hand and long enough to go once and a half round the body, are applied as shown in Figs. 238 and 239. The first strap is pinned round the upper arm as high as possible, non-adhesive surface towards the skin, which is guarded by a strip of boric lint. The surgeon draws both shoulders fully back, and an assistant carries the heated or turpentined strap round the chest. This strap fixes the shoul- der and elbow well back in the position given by the hand of the surgeon. The second strap starts below the sound collar bone, crosses the junction of neck and shoulder (the skin being guarded uiawu Ijy boric lint or by a bit of moulded guttapercha) and the back obliquely to the point of the elbow, is then carried upwards along the extensor sui’face of the fore-arm, rather towards its ulnar side, to the neck, which it crosses, and ends over the scapula. This strap draws the elbow forwards (thus throw mg the shoulder and outer fragment still farther back—the loop acting as fulcrum) and iiushes the shoulder up till the outer fragment is on a level with the inner. With an adult the hand may often be lett free, supported by a loop of strapping round the wrist, the long end of the loop being carried over the inner fragment (which it tends to depress) to the scapula. No hole should be cut for the olecranon ; no strap should pass outside the arm on the injured side; the second strap should cross the neck exactly where it tends to remain natur- ally The axilla and fold of the elbow should be well dusted with boric powder, or greased with boric ointment; a piece of bone in should be placed between the palm and the chest. Fi". 233.—Sayre’s StrapiJing. Application of lirst strap while the shoulders are well drawn hack.