FRACTURES OF THE ULNA AND RADIUS. 825 children, from falls on the ulnar side of the hand with the elbow hexed—a greenstick fracture often resulting. The superficial posi- tion of the bone renders the detection of fi’actures comparatively ea.sy, even though displacement be slight. It is worth noting that a marked angle may develop in the ulna, towards the subcutaneous edge, the radius being sound. frag- Separation of the lower ulnar epigdiysis, ossifying at four to five years and joining at twenty, is very rare (Fig. 205). Fractures of the radius*—The radius is liable to fractures of all parts, but fracture of the lower end and separation of the lower epiphysis are the most frequent injuries ; then come fractures of the shaft, those of the head and neck being rare. Fractures of the radius alone are slightly more frequent than fractures of both bones ; they are common througliout life, separation of the lower epiphysis being specially common up to twenty, and Colles’s fracture after mid-life. The head may have small or lai ments chipped from it (Fig. 259); remaining loose or uniting, they may greatly impair the movements of the joint. In such a case Oheyne removed about half the head, which lay loose, greatly crippling the joint; he obtained, after six months of treatment, a perfect joint. Separation of the upper radial epi- physis* a thin plate ossifying at five to six and joining at eighteen, is very rare. When the neelt is broken (rare) there is no muscle to displace it, and the balance of power on the shaft is undisturbed; so there is no typical displacement. In the shaft greenstick fractures are com- mon in children (Fig. 204). Fractures of the shaft of the radius are more frequent than those of the ulna, because in falls force travels chiefly along the radius. When a fracture occurs be- tween the tubercle and the msertion of the pronator teres, it is practically certain (Figs. 215, 230, 260), unless the fragments are inseparably locked, that some contraction of the biceps, and perhaps of the supinator brevis, will completely supinate the upper fragment; neither voluntary nor passive pronation of this fragment is then possible, for there is no pronator attached to it and the fragment cannot be grasped by the sur- geon. Whether the pronator could pronate the hand after fracture of the radius may be doubtful; but if the hand be pronated, there it remains, for the supinator longus is incapable of supinating it. The ig. 260.—Fracture o( the Radius just above the Insertion of the Pronator Teres. The upper fragment is su- piiuited, the lower more than semi-prone. The specimen shows the result of treating this injury hy anterior and posterior splints. (University College Museum, No. 210.)