TREATMENT. 69 any moisture. If still more efficient cold be requisite, any desired decree is obtained by means of Leiter’s tubes. These are thin leaden tubes arranged in coils, which can be moulded to the irregularities of tlie surface. A piece of lint is placed between the skin and the tubing, and then water of the desired temperature is passed through from one end in a continuous stream. These tubes are extremely efficient in keeping up the cold, and must therefore be carefully watched. It is well not to leave them on for more than two hours at a time, on account of the great depression of the vitality which results. They are also of advantage in cases of haemorrhage. Another plan of treating acute inflammations, which is of more universal applicability, is the employment of heat, which, like cold, is found to diminish the congestion of the part in certain cases, and thus to lead in some instances to resolution. The action of heat is not so clear as that of cold, but it also is probably in most cases a reflex one. Where the inflammation is quite superficial, and where the skin and the inflamed part are fed by the same vessel, it is con- ceivable that the dilatation of the superficial vessels of the skin over the inflamed area, as the result of the application of the heat, will lessen the supply of blood which can go to the inflamed part; but in most cases the vessels of the skin and of the inflamed part are independent of each other, and this explanation will not suffice. It is possible also that the effect of heat is to lessen the excitability of the deeper-seated nerves, and therefore to diminish the dilatation of the vessels leading to the pai-t. Certainly, where heat is applied to the skin, the irritability of the nerves is reduced, as shown by the easing of the pain, etc. ; and it is possible that this action is communicated to the deeper nerves, leading to diminution in the calibre of the afferent arteries. Heat also acts beneficially in that it increases the rapidity of the circulation through the part, and thus washes out the morbid products which tend to accumulate there. Heat may be applied either by means of poultices or fomenta- tions. Of these the poultice is no doubt the most effectual for the time being; but it is a decomposing vegetable substance, and should subsequent operation in that part become necessary, the thorough disinfection of the skin is a matter of great difficulty. Hence, in cases where poultices are used over a part which may be subsequently incised, it is well to combine them with some antiseptic substance, or to have them entirely composed of it, the best materials that may be used to impregnate the poultice being eucalyptus oil or boracic acid. Linseed meal is what is usually employed for poultices, and its advantage consists chiefly in the presence of the oil, but other materials will act almost as well if only oil is added. The poultice must not be too heavy—about four table- spoonfuls of linseed meal to half a pint of water—and everything must be as hot as possible, the water boiling, and the material on which the poultice is spread previously heated. Where a jioultice is used in the case of superficial inflammation, it is applied directly to the skin ; but in deeper-seated inflammations, where the poultice is