FY^MIA. 180 thin and watery, with shreds of necrosed tissues in it, and with a slight characteristic odoui', which is also smelt when pyogenic cocci are grown by themselves in culture media. The pus contains vast numbers of staphylococci and of streptococci. The largest accumula- tions of pus are found in the joints or serous cavities, and usually contain streptococci. Schuller found streptococci in twelve cases of pysemio arthritis following upon child-birth. The pus shown in Fig. 31 came from the knee-joint of a youth who suffered from pysemia after a print- ing-machine accident. The hip and ankle of the same leg were also affected. Strepto- cocci were also found in the urine (Fig. 34). Pysemic abscesses have no distinct walls, but are sur- rounded by acutely- inflamed tissues which are infiltrated with pus cells, and with streptococci or staphylococci. The accompanying figure was drawn from a part of the wall of a pysemic abscess that followed a burn (Fig. 32). The position of pysemic abscesses depends, as we have seen, to some extent upon the kind of lesion in which the disease originated. In the Patho- logical Society’s Report on ^Septic Diseases (vol. xxx., 1879) a hundred and ten cases of pysemia are recorded. Abscesses oc- curred in the lungs in fifty-seven of these, in the joints in twenty, in the liver in twelve, in the spleen in eleven, and in the kidneys in six. The above refers, of course, to gross lesions which could easily be seen with the naked eye. Makins and Abbott have tabulated two hundred cases of pysemia in which the infection was introduced in all kinds of ways. These figures give a slightly different result. The loints were afiected in seventy-six cases, the lungs in sixty-six, the lungs and pleura in seventeen, the pleura in sixteen, the liver in ten, the spleen in twenty-two, and the kidneys in seventeen. Abscesses occurred in the areolar tissues in twelve of the Pathological Society’s cases, and in sixty-nine of those of Makins and Abbott. In pyjemia associated with acute infective osteomyelitis, necrosis, and acute suppurative periostitis, acute suppurations are common in the heart and pericardium. In Makins and Abbott’s tables the Fig. 32.—Section of the Wall of a Pysemic Abscess, stained by Gram’s method. (Prom a drawing by C. B. Lock- wood.)