IX. TETANUS AND TETANY. By 0. B. LOCKWOOD, F.K.C.S., 4ssistant-Sxirgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital; Surgeon to the Great Northern Hospital. Definition.—(Greek, re/rw, I stretch; riravoQ, a stretch- in«^) is one of the traumatic infective diseases in which the poison, acting through the nervous system, causes violent, continuous, painfTil contractions of the voluntary muscles of the body. The muscular spasms which are characteristic of the disease are of the tonic kind, being continuous; they are, however, liable to exacerbations marked by violent intermittent clonic contractions, followed by periods of comparative rest, though very seldom by complete relaxation. Special groups of muscles are affected in an almost constant order, and the disease runs a rapid and fatal couise. When muscular spasms begin gradually, persist evenly for some time, and then gradually subside, they are called “ tonic spasms.” But when the onset is sudden, the contractions violent and intermit- tent, with sudden cessation, they are called “ clonic.” iEtiology.—Tetanus is now a comparatively rare disease in European hospitals. During sixteen years, from 1878 to 1893, only thirty-one cases of it were treated in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. Climate.—In the tropics it is a common disease, especially among negro infants ; indeed, all the dark races seem to possess a special proclivity to tetanus. Generally speaking, the inhabitants of warm countries suffer more than those of cold or temperate climates. Nevertheless, more cases occur in England in winter than in summer. Military surgeons have observed that those who were wounded during inclement weather were moi’e likely to die of tetanus than those injured when the weather was salubrious. Sex.—Tetanus is much commoner in males than in females. The proportion usually given is four to one. Out of thirty-one persons treated for tetanus in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, three were females, and twenty-eight men. The greater liability of males to injuries wiU go far to explain this disproportion, although the excess might be expected to have been reduced if the lesions incident to parturition be taken into consideration.