334 SUEGICAL DISEASES DUE TO PARASITES. Refbrenoks. Lewis : “ On a Hsematozoon inliabiting Human Blood, 1872. Manson: Pathological Transactions, 1881, vol. xxxii. p. 285. British Medical Journal, 1894, vol. i. p. 844. Also Davidson’s “Hygiene and Diseases of Warm Climates,” 1893, p. 788. S. Mackenzie : Pathological Transactions, 1882, vol. xxxiii. p. 394. Maitland : British Medical Journal, 1894, vol. i. p. 844. XV. BILHARZIA H^MATOBIA. jiEtiology.—A trematode worm, which gains entrance into the venous circulation, becomes encysted, and produces numerous ova, which are deposited in the tissues and escape from mucous surfaces, giving rise to symptoms the most striking of which is hsematuria. The parasite is common in Central and Eastern Africa, Mada- gascar, Mauritius, and Egypt. In the last-named country the disease produced appears to assume a particularly severe form. Both the male and female woi’m are known. The male is white in colour, half an inch long, and about as broad as an oxyuris; the body is covered with microscopic tubercles, except about the an- terior extremity and gynephoric canal. The female is darker in colour, especially at the posterior extremity, half as long again as the male, no wider than a fine thread, and covered with fine prickle- shaped projections. Both sexes are provided with two suckers : one at the anterior extremity, corresponding to the buccal opening, and one at the posterior end, serving for fixation, also with an alimentary canal and distinct generative organs. The ova embedded in the tissues or as voided in the urine are oval in outline, measuring X of an inch, and provided at the narrow end with a spine of an inch in length (Eig. 60)._ The latter is occasionally absent, and is said to be placed laterally in ova embedded in the walls of the large intestine (Manson; Zancarol). The shell is transparent, and within it the embryo may be seen in varying stages of development, the more mature specimens attain- ing dimensions of to ^ x ^ of an inch. When placed in water the shell bursts and the ciliated embryo, set free, assumes an elongated form and moves actively. It then either enters an intermediate host, as yet undiscovered, or dies in a few days. Mode of infection.—The embryos are ingested with drinking water, the vehicle being possibly some small mollusc, such as the Cyclops conveying the embryo of the Guinea worm. The disease is never seen in Egypt amongst those who habitually drink filtered water. The period of incubation is said by Brock to extend probably over four months. The mature worm is found in the human body, located in smooth-walled cavities in connection with the portal vein and its radicles, its occurrence in the systemic circulation being practically limited to the vesical veins. The female worm is rarely discovered at post-mortem examinations, and never in the portal vein, although the males are often found in this vessel to tlie number of several dozens, if it be opened previous to the removal of the liver from the body. No evidence exists as to the mode in which the