ACUTE ABSCESS. 83 In the ordinary circumstances of the formation of an acute abscess, the cocci are not, of course, pi'esent in such numbers, nor are tliey massed together, as in pysemic emboli, and thus the appearances at the early stage just described would not be so typical, although without doubt the changes which are going on are essentially those which I have detailed. While these micro-organisms are necessary for the production of acute suppuration, and while without their presence acute suppuration could not occur, it does not follow that whenever they are j^resent acute suppuration must take place. On the contrary, in ordinary circumstances, it is pro- bably the rule that other conditions must come into play to assist the action of these micro- organisms ; but how far these accessory conditions are es- sential depends on various points in connection more especially with the kind, the numbers, and the virulence of the organisms them- selves. As I have pointed out, the elfects of the organ- isms on the tissues vary with the kind which is introduced; for example, the staphylococci tend to form circum- scribed abscesses, while the streptococci are especially concerned in the production of diffuse spreading suppuration. And among the staphylococci the diflerent species differ in the severity with which they act, and further, while in the case of the staphylococci—more especially of the rarer forms—the presence of various accessory conditions is almost essential to their action, the streptococci, on the other hand, are apparently more or less independent of such secondary circumstances. That the viridence of the individual varieties difi'ers at different times is evident, both from clinical observation and from experiment. And the less virulent the organism is, the more does it become necessary for other factors to come into play in order that sup- puration may arise; and vice versd, the more virulent the organism, tlie less necessary are these secondary causes. Then, again, much depends on the number of the micro-organisms which have entered Fig. 15.—Section of Kidney, showing Changes following an Embolus composed of Pyogenic Cocci, a, Central plug of cocci; b, clear space around; c, commencing in- filtration with leucocytes; d, kidney tubules.