31 BACILLUS ANT/niAOIS. Other micrococci of surgical interest.—Otlier micrococci to wliich surgical interest attaches are tlie Diplocoocus iiUracellularis imninqilidis of Weichselbaum, the Staphylococcus salivanus jiyogenes, tlie Micrococcus salivaritcs septicm—already referred to as Bacillus salivarius septicus, the Micrococcus tetragenes—described by Gaffky as occurring in a cavity in the lung, also by Greenfield and others as occurring in septic conditions. Micrococcus gingivcc pyogenes, described by IMiller, of Berlin, the Streptococcus septicus liquefaciens, described by Babes in the organs of a child which succumbed to septicsemia following an attack of scarlatina, and the Streptococcus coryza contagiosa equorum which occurs in the pus of the swollen tissues, and in the abscesses that are found in cases of strangles. Bacillus anthracis.—The Bacillus anthracis was first described by Pollender in Germany in 1849, then by Davaine in France in 1850; it was more fully investigated by Davaine in 1863, and by Pasteur in 1879. (Plate I. Figs. 3, 4.) It is a rod-shaped bacterium from 1/i to l'2ofx in breadth, and from bp to 20p or bOp or more in length. In the blood it occurs as short, simple or jointed segments about bp to %p in length, with flattened or cup-shaped ends, in the latter case a small clear disc being usually seen at the point of division; the bacilli are rigid non-motile oi-ganisras, which never contain spores when in the blood of the living animal. When seen in cultivations or in fluid removed from the thorax, they may appear as long filaments, sometimes grouped in bundles, at others formim^ a kind of felted mass. In old cultures or in organisms exposed to the air under somewhat unfavourable conditions, spores (see page 4) are formed. ^ This orpnism may be easily seen under the microscope even in unstained preparations, but it is more readily studied when stained by any of the ordinary methods. It grows readily in peptone-gelatine at the ordinary temperature of the room, and in neutral or even slightly alkaline media. In a test- tube gelatine culture it first throws out a series of delicate threads around the central core formed along the track of the needle the appearance of an inverted fir’tree (iig. I), ihen liquefaction commences at the surface and shortly becomes fairly well marked ; the fluid, at first opaque, gradually becomes clecy as the non-motile organisms fall to the bottom to form a greyish mass. In agar-agar plate cultures, incubated at the body temperature, greyi-sh-white points develop ; these, under the microscope, are most lace-like in their delicacy; on gelatine pates the colonies have the characteristic and often described appearance. The Bacillus anthracis grows upon e sutface of a dry potato as a dirty white layer with irre^u- laily roughened surface and margins. As already mentioned, spores never occur m the bacilli found in the blood of livmg anS but they soon develop at a temperature of 20° to 35° G oi even f de^d mhmT'"’" ^^tmosphero, in the discharges coming from 4 he virulence of these organisms can be modified by heating them