918 DISEASES OF BONES. very largest tmiiour may be removed without recurrence of the disease. Tlie diagnosis of a sarcoma of bone from a simple tumour, such as a chondroma, is generally easily made from the liistory of its rate of growth, its varying consistence in different parts, and the presence of pain. A chondrifying sarcoma may, however, present some difficulty, and the rate of gi’owth may be the only means of arriving at a definite conclusion. [See page 912.) In very rare and exceptional circumstances some forms of in- flammation of bone may be mistaken for sarcoma. [See page 887.) A pulsating tumour of bone may at times present very great difficulty in diagnosis from an aneurysm. This is especially the case about the pelvis or groin or in the popliteal space. The points of im- portance would be the exact situation of the growth, which might be out of the direct line of the main vessel, the presence of bony plates upon the surface, or the ill-defined outline in the periosteal growth, the less impulsive character of the pulsation, and unaltered condition of the arteries below. But the most experienced surgeons have ligatured arteries, on the supposition that the swelling was an aneurysm when the subsequent course proved it to be sarcoma of bone. Tn-eatmeiit. 1. SvBperiosteal sarcoma.—Amputation at the earliest possible moment should be done for the most malignant of the sarcomata of bone ; namely, the subperiosteal. At one time it was thought necessary to remove the whole bone from which the tumour arose: e.g. by amputation at the hip-joint in a case of sub- periosteal sarcoma of lower end of the femur. The mortality from the operation alone was consequently very high, and the patient, if he lived, was still found to be exposed io the same risk of dissemi- nation of the growth in the lungs as if he had been submitted to an amputation at a less dangerous spot. Provided there is sufficient room for performing amputation through tissues free from infiltra- tion, there is no reason, with our more recent experience, for a removal so high as at the joint above the bone involved. There should, however, be plenty of room, and skin-flaps with circular division of muscles at the spot where the bone is sawn woffid be safer than any variety of muscular flap, for the periosteal growth is liable to spread upwards between the fibres of any muscle which is involved at the primary seat of infection. The sawn section of bone also, in such a case, should be carefully inspected, to see that there is no medullary growth from extension through the Haversian canals. With these precautions, an amputation may be done through the bone which is the seat of a subperiosteal sarcoma. If the disease be not eradicated, it is as likely to appear in the lungs as in the stump, provided that the amputation has been done at a fair distance from the tumour. Occasionally the pain may be so severe and distressing as to induce the patient to submit to an amputation, even when he is assured that little hope can be entertained of a permanent relief from the disease.