INJURIES OE J30NE8. 8:3S the neck to penetrate the substance of the head. Force acting from the front upon the trochanter may also break the narrow part of the neck, by driving the trochanter back j but the more the force acts directly from the Fio-. 275.—From a man aged 99. He had fractured the neck of his thigh-hone some ye.ai's before his death, and had been able to get about until he sus- tained a fracture of tlie shaft. The formation of sores at all points of pressure prevented tlie use of exteu- Sion. The neck lias practically disap- peared ; the two surfaces are smooth and polished. The fragments of the shaft overlap for 0 ins., and are firmly united by bony callus. The lower fragment is moderately everted. (SC. George’s Hospital, Series 1., No. 107a.) (Pick.) Fractures are often mixed- and the exact seat of fracture side, the more will it tend to drive the great trochanter on to the base of the neck. The result of this is that the hinder part of the great trochanter and the intertrochanteric line move inwards over the back of the neck, tension is thrown on the front of the neck and trochanter, and the compact tissue cracks open here usually in the immediate neighbourhood of the capsular line. This crack opens like a hinge, as the posterior wall of the neck is driven more and more deeply into the substance of the shaft and great trochanter, becoming im- pacted more or less firmly in them, or splitting them into more or fewer fragments. Everything tends to produce eversion : direct force as it usually acts from the side; spasms of the external rotators, the opponents being relatively feeble; and the weight of the limb, which always tends to roll out but is prevent^ by the ilio-trochanteric band, the action of which is annulled by loss of continuity of the neck. Varieties.—Sir Astley Cooper divided fractures of the neck into “ intracapsular ” (Figs. 274, 275) and “extracapsular ” (Fig. 276), for which terms Bigelow proposed to substitute “ of the narrow part of the neck ” and “ of the base of the neck.” For whilst fractures neai the head are wholly intracapsular, a fracture of the neck wholly out- side the capsule, which is in front attached to the limit of the neck, is impossible. But Bigelow’s suggestion has not been adopted by many. —partly intra-, partly extra-capsular; is often a matter of doubt. Yet it is