521 LIGATURES. !>f repair by cutting across the two inner coats of the vessel, and to that Extent weakening it, by necessitating the absorption or separa- tion of the end of tlie vessel and of the ligature, and by introducing a fresh source of possible wound infection. The repair of a tied artery takes a little longer time to perfect, and is attended by the efiusion of a greater amount of “ lymph ” than that of a vessel closed by natural processes alone. In tlie case of gold or platinum wire ligature, no absorption whatever takes place, but in all other ligature materials, absorption, more or less rapid and complete, occurs if asepsis is preserved. In the case of carbolised catgut the absorption is rapid; chromic acid "ut is more resistant; silk, silkworm gut and tendons are still more slowly absorbed. The unabsorbed parts are surrounded by cicatricial tissue, which also replaces the ligature as it is absorbed. (c) The results of se^Jsis.—A divided artery tied in a wound may be infected through the ligature, or by other infective matter introduced into the wound at the time of the injury or later, or, rarely, through the general blood-stream. The results of such infec- tion are a septic arteritis and periarteritis; the strangled portion of the artery is not absorbed, but is separated from the living artery by a process of ulceration. This sets free the ligature, which is neither absoi’bed nor encapsuled, but comes away with the discharge. There is, therefore, a destructive ulcerating process going on at the end of the ligatured vessel. If this be so intense as to arrest all repair, or if it so impair the artery that it cannot resist the pressure of the blood, secondary haemorrhage occui's. Previous to the introduction of antiseptic surgery and aseptic ligatures, secondary haemorrhage, about the time of the sepai’ation of the ligatures—one to three weeks after application—was very common; now it is a I’are event. Ligature materials.—Very many materials have been used as ligatui'es, such as silk or hempen threads, and gold, silver, iron, lead, or platinum wire, untanned skin, catgut, unspun silk (silkworm gut), tendon, nerve, ox-aorta, and peritoneum. A good ligature must be strong, inelastic, pliable, smooth, round, aseptic, and slowly absorbable. Wire is no longer used; it is inconvenient to apply, and not absorbable. Silkworm gut is also rejected, because deficient in pliability, although its smooth surface without pores renders it easy to make aseptic, and it is also very strong and slowly absorbed. Strips of untanned skin and of nerve are no longer used. To-day the choice really lies between catgut, silk, tendon, artery, and peritoneum. Catgut,—Commercial catgut consists of the intestine of the sheep from which the mucous and muscular coats have been more or less perfectly removed by scraping. Owing to imperfection in its manufacture, much of the muscular and mucous coats is left behind, and the villi can often be detected in microscopical sections. Hence it is an infected material; cocci, bacteria, and their spores have been demonstrated in it, and it is a possible source of wound-infection some say a frequent source. Volkmann has recorded a case in