DISLOCATIONS OF THE IIfP. 9!)3 itself to the limb Avith uncompromising grasp.” The advantage of tliis apparatus is the equable pressure it exerts, and it readily drops off on releasing extension. DislocSitions of the bones of the pelvis. General remarks. —In consequence of the great strength and breadth of the pelvic articulations, displacements are rare. Many cases cited as disloca- tions are really fractures, poi’tions of bone being torn away by the powerful ligaments. These accidents are produced by violent crushes. Dislocations at the pubic symphysis have been caused by forcible separation of the thighs, and also by prolonged and difficult labours, especially in contracted pelvis. The bone is generally torn away from the inter-articular cartilage. All these injuries may be complicated by lacerations of the urethra or pelvic viscera, or oreat veins. The treatment is practically that of fractured pelvis. '^The parts should be manipulated into position by extension and pressure, and a broad pelvic belt should be worn, with rest upon a hard, flat mattress for six weeks to two months. Dislocations, usually partial, of the coccyx from the sacrum are found; but this injury will receive notice in the article on Injuries op the Spine (Art XXXVIII, Vol. II). ^ • Dislocations of the hip. causation and Classmcation. —Dislocations of the hip are usually produced by great violence and are more common in males during active adult life, between thirty and sixty. The accident may occur, however, in mfaiicy or extreme old age. On account of the depth of the acetabulum, the streno-th of the ligaments, and the protected position and deep situation of the articulation, clothed round with muscles, dislocations of the hip are far more rare than those of the shoulder. In exceptional instmaces these displacements are produced by slight causes in those who have lax bgaments. Some contortionists possess the power of dislocating the jomt at will. Congemtal dislocations of the hip-joint are com“ paratively common, and so are ^splacements from softening of the capsule^n^ inflammatorywi^lSmb affections. The dispacememEs of^e hip m such conditions as acute ataxia and rheumatoid arthritis are associated with considerable osseous changes, and should hardly be classified as true dislocations The number of traumatic displacements may occur. There is o-nnd reason to say »ith Bryant, that the held of the W II be displaced anywhere m the immediate vicinity of the acetabntom may also point out that the greatest variety must occur in the lesion or ^tent of lesion found in the musells, tendons ln“li 1 lortC toe “'‘7 “!»<> modify the described of the nelvis S mI’ may concomitant fractures 01 tne pelvis. &uch considerations may well account for some of utliois and of the appropriate metliods of treating- them liv manipulation. Every surgeon of experience has met with cies cJ Ct (t