treatment of aneurysm. 627 f, Macewen’s acupuncture may be employed in such a case, and lessens tiio uuioa.uxvj* j ^ ^ x* should tie that artery ; or if, by_ the distal ligature, the circulation snouiu tic llltiu 0.1 jr , m ' . through the aneurysmal artery is of necessity greatly modined, the operation is indicated. As a rule, if coagulants are used in these cases improvement ratlier than cure is to be anticipated.^ In aneurysms in any situation the value of opium in relieving pain, and of venesection in lessening excessive arterial tension, must not be lost sight of. i i On tlie clioice of compression or ligatnre.—Much stress was formerly laid on a correct appreciation of the relative merits of compression and ligature in the treatment of aneurysm , but the im troduction of aseptic surgery and absorbable ligatures has narrowed the grounds of choice to a very limited field, and thereby deprived this subject of much of its importance. Compression and the proximal ligature lead to the cure of the aneurysm by the same means—the sudden and complete, or the partial and repeated, coagulation of the blood in the sac and artery. Both alike may be rendered free from the risk of wound infection, and of secondary hemorrhage. It may be claimed for compression that it can, as a rule, be caiiied out without the use of an anesthetic, and without a dreaded “ opera- tion” ; that it is, by its very nature, free from the risks of wound infection and secondary hemorrhage; and that this freedom does not depend, as in the case of ligature, upon certain precautions taken by fallible men. It can be applied so as to partially occlude the main artery, and thus to cause less embarrassment to the general and the local circulation than the complete occlusion by a ligature may do. It also does not cause any permanent obliteration in the artery ; and if the aneurysm is cured, and its artery blocked, the local blood supply is only impeded by one instead of two blocks in the main arterial channel. On the other hand, it may be urged against compression that it is troublesome to manage ; tedious, if not very painful, to the patient; and on the whole, less constantly successful than the ligature. The ligature, as now employed, is the most successful of all methods of treatment for aneurysm, and by the use of anesthetics it is attended with a minimum of sufiering and inconvenience. In certain positions compression of an artery is impossible, or is attended with great difficulty and danger—e.g. in the abdomen and the root of the neck.