DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 979 side, over a large, soft axillaiy pad, and the fore-arm supported, in a large siingTwTm¥ spirit lotion is applied over the joint. When a weetTias elapsed, massage and movement should be cautiously comi- inenced, and continued daily with gradually increasing boldness. After a fortnight the fore-arm may be confined in a sling merely, and in a month the patient should be encouraged to use the limb cautiously. The prudent surgeon will see to all tins himself. Should atrophy of muscles ensue, he will probably be unjustly blamed, and he should be exceedingly c^tious in prognosis accordingly. Trcatmoit ol dislocation of tlie liiimciriis, associated with fj-actiirc of the shaft of the bone.—This accident is, fortunately, as rare as it is embarrassing. The surgeon is sometimes enabled to replace the head of the humerus by manipulation of the upper fragment, vvith direct digital pressure in the axilla, on the displaced head. Should this fail, the case must be treated as a fracture. When the bone has united—if the surgeon resort to the treatment usually advised of endeavouring to reduce the dislocation—he will run the inevitable risk of refracture, and of failure to return the head of the bone to its place. Excision of the fragment has also been performed, and a false jomt has been fashioned by moving one fragment upon another. Recently, McBurney, of New York, has treated one of these case.s most successfully, by exposing the upper fragment, drilling it, and inserting a strong hook. By traction upon the hook, reduction was readily accomplished. This method seems likely to prove very useful for these troublesome cases. Treatment of old dislocations of the shoulder.—The path- ology of these cases has been sufficiently indicated on page 953. A new cavity is soon formed by pressure-absorption, and interstitial shortening of the muscles, with fibrous thickening forming a spurious . capsule,is an early phenomenon. The adhesion of the vessels and nerves to the lacerated capsule is a matter of the utmost surgical importance. Many unreduced dislocations of the shoulder, if energetically treated by galvanism, daily massage, and movements, become surprisingly useful j but such treatment must be persevered in for many months. No hard-and-fast line can be laid down for the time when it is, or is not, justifiable to attempt reduction. The age and vigour of the patient, and especially the condition of his vessels as to atheroma- tous disease, must be carefully taken into account. As a rough rule, when a dislocation has been left unreduced as long as it would take a fracture of the humerus to firmly unite (about six weeks), great trouble will be experienced in reducing it, and every week that elapses after this time increases the difficulty markedly. The necessary force that is used in some of these cases, may result in the following lamentable complications :— (1) Rupture of the vessels, difl’use axillary aneurysm. (2) Extensive effusion of blood from laceration of the tissues with subsequent diffuse suppuration.