70 INFLAMMATION. applied at a higher temperature, a piece of muslin or lint must be interposed. Outside the poultice a mass of cotton-wool is laid, and the whole fixed on by a bandage. It does not usually require changing for from two to three hours. In cases where an operation will probably be subsequently required it is best to be content with hot fomentations. These are made by pouring boiling water on a piece of thick flannel, which is then wrung dry, and quickly applied to the skin j and outside it, overlapping it in all directions, a piece of mackintosh cloth, and outside this again some cotton-wool and a bandage. The disadvantage of the fomen- tation is that it requires to be changed more frequently; but in cases where pressure can be borne the fomentation or the poultice can be kept hot for a much longer time if an indiarubber hot-water bottle, containing a small quantity of boiling water, be laid over the pai-t, outside the cotton-wool. (5) General treatment.—As regards the treatment of the general condition, the indications are to keep up the strength of the patient, to dilute the poison in the blood, to lead to its excre- tion from the blood, and to treat any special symptoms which may arise. Of these, the most important is to attend to the restoration of the excretions, and this should be done by the administration of purgatives, more especially sulphate of magnesia j by the use of diuretics, the best of which is probably bitartrate of potash, usually given in gruel—one tablespoonful of oatmeal, half a pint of water, a drachm of cream of tartai’, and a little sugar and brandy, or spirit of nitrous ether; and by sudorifics, such as liquor ammonise acetatis, or Dover’s powder. The purgative acts not only in expelling the excretions, but in leading to transu- dation of a quantity of serum from the blood, and it probably acts also as a counter-irritant leading reflexly to diminution of the in- flammatory condition; it should be administered in every case, even although the bowels are acting. The poison should also be diluted in the blood by allowing the patient to drink large quantities of fluid, which he is always very ready to do. This fluid should, of course, be as much as jiossible of a nutritious character, such as milk, barley-water, weak beef tea, etc. A good fluid is also the “ Imperial ” drink, which is composed of a draclim to a drachm and a half of cream of tartar, with a little sugar and a little lemon- peel to the pint of boiling water. As regards the food during the acute stage of inflammation, it must consist essentially of milk and fluid preparations of meat (the patient can digest nothing else), and if he gets plenty of luilk (four to six pints a day), he will obtain sufficient nutriment for the time being. Stimulants are not usually necessary or desirable. As soon as recovery commences, the patient will require as nourishing a diet as he is able to digest, and he will then in all probability be the better for a little stimulant. Prognosis.—As regards the prognosis in cases of acute inflam- mation, questions which are constantly asked by the patient are: