679 MAOBOGLOSSIA. colour and consistence, the walls of some being thin and con- taining clear serum, others being surrounded by hypertrophied connective tissue, and containing dark blood-stained serum, in which masses of lymph coagula lie free. The lymphatic glands are not enlarged, but the vessels and nerves are surrounded by the tumour. JTrom fatty tumours they may be distinguished by their congenital origin, and from large venous njevi by their not diminishing under compression. Occasionally, single cysts of a similar character arise in adults, and are most usually met with in the neck or axilla. When single, these cysts may be treated successfully by tapping, and subsequent injection of tinctura iodi or Morton’s fluid ; but when multiple, their treatment is made difficult by the pi’oneness of this tissue to acute and extensive inflammation, which is often alarming in its extent and severity. The introduction of setons has, notwith- standing, been satisfactory in many instances. On the whole, the ablation of the entire or major portion of the tumour is to be advised; and although even under antiseptic precautions considerable inflam- mation of the neighbouring parts will ensue, the result after a while is satisfactory, the parts not removed shrinking and the skin contracting over them. ITIacrogflossia is due to a congenital defect in the lymphatic vessels of the tongue, which does not, however, alvvays show its results at birth, but which leads to hypertrophy of the tongue and of all its component tissues. (See Art. XLV., on Affections OF THE Mouth, Palate, Tongue, and Tonsil, Vol. II.) Other names have been given to the condition, such as lingua vitulina or propendula; but the pathological condition is expressed by the term given by Virchow—“ lymphangeioma cavernosum.” As a result of the pressure of the lower incisors in the act of sucking, or following a bite during a fit (these patients are frequently epileptic), or from some slight injury, the tongue becomes inflamed, and the consequent enlargement does not subside, and re- current attacks of inflammation leave it still further increased in size, until it attains such proportions that it may measure 6i inches along the dorsum beyond the upper lip, and 10 inches in circumfer- ence at its base. As a result of exposure, the surface becomes dry, brown, and is covered with fissures and small ulcerations; the papillae are enormously swollen and covered with a crust of epithelial debris; the veins on the under surface are lai’ge and tortuous and luievenly dilated. The muscular tissue is not increased, but the fibrous elements are dense and firm, and are infiltrated with leu- cocytes, while the lymphatics are dilated and varicose. In some cases the hypertrophy of the tongue is not so marked, but the surface of the organ is covered over with minute translucent or semi-opaque blebs or vesicles. These, if pricked, give issue to a clear fluid. Pig. 192 shows this condition. The patient was a man of twenty-five, who had been the subject of tlie condition described since boyhood. There was often a copious discharge of