713 BOILS. (especially ovef the first phalanges) and the axillre are also frequently the sites of furuncles. The coarse hairs and accessory glands present, and the free perspiration in the latter position no doubt explains this fact. The scalp, however, is but rarely affected by either boils or carbuncles. No part of the body is wholly exempt, and in certain unusual situations, such as the penis or the toes, a boil may give rise to considerable difficulty in diagnosis. The slough due to a sub- cutaneous or cutaneous gumma may resemble that of a carbuncle, but the rapid and very painful onset of the latter always serves to distinguish it. It is asserted that cai’buncles in diabetic subjects are more insidious and less painful than the ordinary form, but this is only true in some cases. It must be noted that the sloughing in such diabetic patients may be very extensive and deserve the term of gangrenous cellulitis, recovery being comparatively uncommon.. Treatment.—In the early stage of a boil remove all pressure or cause of friction from the part, protect it with a small antiseptic fomentation, or use a thick circular pad of felt-plaister. Painting the surface with tincture of iodine, or counter-irritation around the inflamed area with the same application, or injecting a few minims of carbolic acid dissolved in glycerine into the circumference of the boil, are methods recommended to prevent suppuration. They, however, often fail, and when pus has been formed, and there is much pain and tension, the surgeon should not hesitate to incise. The old-fashioned free crucial incision is probably now rarely employed. An ancient plan of treatment of carbuncle has, however, been lately revived, consisting in ciitting with scissors and scraping away all the slough, in the belief that this shortens the healing process. An anaesthetic should be given in order to do this. Undoubtedly some time and, perhaps, considerable pain are occasionally saved by this plan, but on the other hand the risk of opening up veins and causing pyaemia appears to be distinctly increased, and many surgeons have on this account abandoned it. A good wholesome diet should be enjoined, with some wine or stout if the patient’s health be depressed. Tonics, such as quinine, are useful, and the state of the alimentary tract should be attended to. A brisk purge is almost always advisable in the stage of tension and pain, and after this salicylate of bismuth or salol is recom- mended with a view to intestinal asepsis. To promote healing after the slough has come away there are few applications better than boracic or carbolic fomentations, but for an alternative the un- guentum resinse is useful, as is also iodoform diluted with three parts of boracic acid. Various internal remedies are vaunted as preventing the tendency to repeated crops of boils, which some patients suffer from. Chief of these are sulphide of calcium and yeast; they are probably pually useless. Careful attention to the patient’s diet and general hygiene and, if possible, a change of air to a bracing seaside re.sort are far more likely to do good. ’