INFLAMMATION. 62 of the granulation tissue must be derived eitlier by proliferation of the fixed connective tissue corpuscles in the part, or by proliferation of the wandering plasma cells, which, again, are apparently deriva- tives of the connective tissue corpuscles. As regards the origin of the blood-vessels in granulation tissue, they apparently arise in the various methods in which they are formed in the embryo, more especially by budding from the endo- thelial cells of existing capillaries, which buds join others from neighbouring capillaries, become hollowed out, and form new channels. *When inflammation has passed on to the stage of^ complete destruction of the tissue and the formation of granulation tissiie, various things may happen. In the first place, the cause of the inflammation may cease to act, and retrogressive changes take place in this granulation tissue, consisting essentially in the organisa- tion of the granulation cells into more completely formed fibrous tissue. Where complex tissues are destroyed, there is no repro- duction of the original tissue of the part (Fig. 9). There is, in fact, no real, resolution of the disease. The result of the healmg process is the formation of &Jihrous cicatrix. This new fibrous tissue assumes the characters of the connective tissue m which it is fornied, for example, where fat was previously present, it afterwards develops into loose, fatty, areolar tissue. Where denser fibrous tissue is pre- sent, as in tendons, the result is the formation of dense fibrous tissue, or where the inflammation occurs in bone, the new cicatrix becomes converted into bone. . . , A second thing that may happen where the inflammation has o-one on to the stage of granulation is that the cause of the in- flammation ceases to act with the same violence, but still remains in the part and keeps up the changes to a slighter degree, and we have the condition of chronic inflammation established. Thirdly, and most commonly, where the inflammation has go on to gramilation as the result of a series of acute changes, its further continuance ends in sufimratiori. Lastly, in cases where inflammation afiects a free surface psneciallv of the skin—ulceration may be the result. The causes of inflammation.-As inflammation, I need not here enter into been stated in the definition, any injury to the tissues '^mcn is sufficiently severe will set up a certain degree of inflammation in the firSTnVtaLe the exact stage to which the inflammation proceeds toendS^ however, on the fength of time that the irritant continu^ to^act aSd on various accessory circumstances. Inflammation m fact onlv continues so long as the cause or causes remain in actio . ofc; to are got rid of, healing processes commence. Once these pi Hue/causes of acute inflammation, a certain particularly to these causes.