671 TUBEB.CULOUS LYMPH ADENITIS. Hventually makes its way towards the surfoce and involves the superjacent skin, which becomes thinner and redder till it gives way and allows the matter to be discharged. The discharge is usually thin and serous, mi.xed with some of the caseous material.^ The sinus thus formed has a characteristic appearance : its margins are surrounded by cedematous granulations, and it leads to the broken- down structure of the gland often at a considerable depth. This inav be found in some instances entirely destroyed, but more often exhibits in its various loculi all the stages through which it has passed. The surrounding tissues are not infiltrated. The granulations of the •rland and of the sinus are often infected with bacilli, and in scraping these abscesses all granulations must therefore be destroyed, as well as the walls containing them. The cicatrisation of the sinuses and cavities, if not freely dealt with by the surgeon, leads to a peculiarly disfiguring and characteristic form of scar. The cicatrix is often adherent to the deeper parts and, therefore, depressed, or it Avill present ridges of skin with small processes and deep furrows. Syiiiptoius.—With regard to the clinical features of this aflection, the enlargement is generally insidious and painless, and progresses but slowly at first. The involved glands are in the early condition freely movable, but with their increase in size the surrounding parts become involved in a periadenitis, and the gland becomes adherent. Their increase in size and the rate of implication of neighbouring glands are veiy irregular; but large masses of glands will often be found aggregated and in various stages of the morbid condition, and will often, by their pressure, cause serious complications, in the shape of oedema, dyspnoea, or dysphagia. When one gland has discharged or has been opened by the surgeon, the others may subside and become quiescent. Even when pus has formed, it may become inspissated, or there may remain a focus of caseous material, round which the gland shrinks, or the whole may be converted into a calcareous mass. Even after many years, however, such glands are liable to recurrent attacks of inflammation. Treatment.—In the treatment of these cases, local must be combined with constitutional i-emedies. The source of irritation must, if possible, be ascertained, and inflamed or ulcerated surfaces must be scooped or swabbed with an antiseptic; carious teeth must be removed, and enlarged tonsils excised. In delicate patients the least decline in health induces a fresh enlargement of glands which have once been inflamed. Whenever pain or swelling occurs, warmth, as applied in hot fomentations or warm lead and opium lotions, affords greatest relief, and protection should be continued by surrounding the part with flannel or cotton-wool. Where enlargement remains in a passive state, and there is no evidence of the presence of suppuration, it may be diminished by careful rubbing with the iodide of lead ointment; but the application of tinctura iodi is to be condemned, as also the in- jection of anything like carbolic acid or tincture of iodine into the sub- stance of the gland. When permanent enlargement has taken place.