302 SUItGIGAL DISEASES DUE TO MIOROBIO INFECTION. the rabid dog to attack liis own species accounts for the large number of cases observed in the canine race. Cats, wolves, foxes, and large animals, such as horses, cows, deer, etc., not uncommonly suffer. rieming has shown that the normal proportion of dogs affected to other animals in Great Britain is from 90 to 96 per cent. Mod© of infection.—A breach of surface is necessary for the introduction of the virus; a bite is the ordinary source, and this need not exceed a superficial cutaneous abrasion in severity. The infecting fiuid is, almost without exception, the secretion of the mouth, fauces and salivary glands, but the blood may be the carrier of infection; and a case has been placed on record in which a veterinary surgeon acquired the disease in making a post-mortem examination. A large number of persons bitten by rabid dogs escape the disease; the proportion, however, has been very variously given as from 5 to 75 per cent. In this particular the locality of the bite, and its depth and severity, are of much importance. Dogs commonly snap at parts of the body covered by clothing, and it is possible that the teeth are thus more or less cleansed of the infecting medium. This may explain the immensely increased probability of infection when the face, hands, or uncovered parts are bitten, and the danger of bites from pet animals that are being fondled. Multiple bites are more dangerous than single ones, from the increased surface inocu- lated ; but severe bleeding, especially from a single wound, may be favourable, as tending to wash out the virus introduced. Statistics seem to prove conclusively that the bites of wolves and cats are more dangerous than those of dogs, and it seems probable that this depends not on the severity of the vmunds alone, but also on a special virulency of the poison. Period of incubation.—In human beings bitten by rabid dogs this is very variable ; in a large majority of cases it has been shown to be roughly six weeks, but undoubted cases have been put on record of children bitten on the face in which it has not exceeded six days; and again, symptoms have undoubtedly developed as late as the end of two years (Horsley). This variability may depend in part on the amount of virus introduced, and in part on individual susceptibility. As a rule, however, symptoms very rarely develop after a period of four months from the date of inoculation. In dogs bitten by rabid animals the incubation period is commonly from three to six weeks, less often from seven to ten; but it has been observed in some cases to extend over some days only, and in others months. During the incubation period the animals are not dangerous. It has been discovered by Pasteur that the passage of the virus through successive series of rabbits much increases its intensity; and from this source he obtains his vims fixe for protective or preventive inoculations. When the virus has been passed through twenty to twenty-five rabbits the incubation period is reduced to eight days; passage