1047 TUBERCULOUS SYNOVITIS. As a matter of fact, there is in many cases of tuberculous syno- vitis such a history of a local external determining cause as well as of a hereditary disposition and often of general infection indicated by evidence of the same disease in other parts, such as the lymphatic glands or lungs, though, of course, it is a common experience to meet with cases in which the joint affection appears to be primary and unassociated with any other demonstrable affection of the same nature. The changes produced in the synovial membrane by the develop- ment in it of tubercle vary with the rapidity of the growth of the latter and the stage at which it has arrived. When rapid and extensive invasion takes place, there is considerable active hyper- rnmia in the synovial membrane and external swelling. This, however, is comparatively rare, but is met with in those uncommon cases in which direct infection of a joint with tuberculous matter from without has taken place. When, on the other hand, the invasion is limited and slow, the joint shows but little of the ordin- aiy signs of inflammation, either externally or on being laid ojsen. But if the immigration of the bacilli be but sparse, and the vital resistance of the tissues be considerable, the most chronic of all the fonns of synovitis is produced, in which almost all the clinical signs • of inflammation, except sweUing, are in abeyance If such a joint be laid open, as is often the case, little or no active hypersemia is observed. But, on the other hand, the synovial membrane is fre- quently found to be the seat of passive congestion, and to be immensely hypertrophied, being thicker in aU its parts and more or less gelatinous or fibrous. Symptoms and morbid chang^es in ti»e chronic form. —Thus, although occasionally instances of acute and subacute tuberculous synovitis are encountered, it is with the distinctly chronic affection that we have to do in the vast majority of cases; and it is this form of disease which we must now study somewhat more in detail. Chronic tuberculous synovitis, the “ white swelling ” of the older authors, usually dates from some injury, and is most frequently met with in children and in older individuals of dehcate constitution and often with hereditary predisposition to tubercle. The first sio-n is usually some stif&iess and swelling in the joint, and a sense of weak- ness in it. ^ Occasionally there is a slight sense of heat, appreciable to the patient himself and to the hand of the surgeon, but this is often absent. As time goes on, the swelling increases and the sense of weakness becomes more marked. If left to itself the joint be- comes flexed and otherwise deformed, as will be described in con- sidering the case of special joints. At those joints where it is least covered by soft parts the synovial membrane will be found to have become voluminous, and to be elastic or doughy to the finger. This “ pulpy swelling ” is due to the formation, in the most superficial layers of the membrane, of a quantity of granulation tissue, the product of chronic inflammation with exudation of leucocytes. '