267 MALAHIA. surfi[ical operatiou of any but the most serious complication of any wound or jects of ha3mophilia do not always bleed j perhaps the most cei’tain hsemori'hage nplicating the mouth. Still, a member has nearly bled to death from a slight nay undergo an amputation of the foot with no more than the usual loss of blood. Mal&risi- The complex associations of malaria and injury are very clearly dealt with by Verneuil in the following passages_ “ Malaria may give rise, at the site of the injury, to various complications, such as hsemorrhage and neuralgia, complications which assume an intermittent type, and which yield to the employ- ment of quinine. . , , r i “ The iniluence of the poison, however, is not always shown by periodical disturbances. Certain wounds may assume a bad appear- Lce, or at least remain stationary, until, the cause being suspected, quinine, which acts like a charm, is administered. “The wound may occur under one of the following circum- S^3iXlC6S “l.'in a patient actually affected by intermittent fever. In this case the wound, especially if it be followed by hiemorrhage, rapidly and markedly aggravates the disease. “2. In a patient who has previously been the subject of ague, but who appears to have entirely recovered. The wound, even when slight, may induce a fresh onset of ague; although the re- covery from the last attack of fever was five, ten, fifteen, or even more years ago. On the other hand, the wound itself may become the seat of some local intermittent complications, the patient being free from the usual manifestations of the disease. “ 3. In a patient who has never had intermittent fever, who is living in a healthy country, but who has formerly lived in a malarial district. The wound in such cases may apparently give rise to intermittent fever or to intermittent complications. It is clear that the injury, not being able of itself to produce a true intoxication, has merely provoked the explosion of a hitherto latent disease. These latter cases are not very rare, and are especially observed in large cities and in the healthiest regions.” Acute diseases, erysipelas, and inflammation.—It is need- less to say that no operation, except such as is so urgent as to be necessary to save life, should be performed during the progress of any acute disease, such as pneumonia, an eruptive fever, and the like. The same may be said of erysipelas. Incisions have to be made in the course of that disease to relieve the tension and to evacuate pus, but they cannot rank as operative measures. If an amputa- tion be rendered necessary in a subject of erysipelas, the less danger would attend the postponement of the operation until the acute period of the fever had passed. j* 2 Hsemophilia forbids a pi'essing kind, and forms a severe contusion. The subj desperately after a wound ^ will occur after wounds ii of a “ bleeder family,” who dental cut of the lip, n