GANGRENE. 150 antiseptic measures; and, when it is developed, isolation of the patient, and great care must be taken not to infect other persons by the instruments or the attendants. As regards the local treat- ment, chief reliance is placed on destruction of the pulpy material either by the application of the actual cautery or by the use of perchloride of iron, the pure liquor ferri perchloridi being employed. Of these the actual cautery seems to be the most efficacious, and the parts are very thoroughly destroyed wherever there is the slightest suspicion of this membranous material Where the perchloride of iron or other caustic is used the surface should in the first instance be thoroughly dried, and then lint soaked in the perchloride of iron should be packed into the wound and left on for twenty-four hours. If the part attacked be an extremity, amputation should, of course, be performed as soon as possible, provided one can get well above the disease, great care being taken not to infect the stump at the same time. In both these cases the general condition of the patient should be attended to, stimulants administered, and every eflfort made to maintain the strength. (c) Cancrum oris.—The third form of specific gangrene to which I need refer is cancrum oris, or noma, which is a disease affecting children, most usually beginning in connection with the mouth, but sometimes on the vulva. This disease generally attacks weakly children of from two to five years of age who are convalescing from some other affection such as measles or scarlatina. In the mouth it usually begins as an ulceration of the gum, the first thing noticed being that th^e patient complains of pain in the mouth, the breath becomes exceedingly foetid, and there is an increased flow of saliva, in fact, the saliva runs out of the mouth. On looking in one finds an ulceration about the gums with sloughy edges. In other cases it commences on the inner side of the cheek close to the angle of the mouth, and in the cases where it has begun in the gums it very soon spreads on to the cheek in the neighbourhood. The cheek becomes greatly swollen, intensely shiny, and by-and-by a white spot appears in the vicinity of the angle of the mouth. This spot very soon becomes black, and, in fact, a slough is present, which goes on spreading. In this way it will destroy large portions of the jaws and the skin around the angle of the mouth (Fig. 25). While this is going on the patient is in a very serious condition, the temperature is high, and the pulse very rapid. He is in a semi-comatose state, and usually dies in from four to five days. This disease is due to long delicate bacilli which are found in large numbers in the tissues at the margin of the slou"h, and the dependence of the disease on the growth of these bacilli has been thoroughly worked out. The treatment consists in destroying all the affected^ parts and a portion of the living tissues around in which these bacilli are present, and in order to give the patient a chance at all one has to do what at first sight seems a very barbarous operation. All the parts which are gangrenous must be clipped away, not only the soft parts, but