ELEPHANTIASI8 ARAB VM. 677 forms crusts upon the surface, and sores and ulcerations are numerous where these are removed. A similar condition affects the external genitals of females. i ^ u (3) Elephantiasis Arabum sometimes allects the upper, but much more frequently the lower, extremities. It commences with attacks of lymiihangitis, accompanied with elephantoid fever, of which relapses take place at irregular intervals. Each attack leaves the part more enlarged, until the ankle measures as much as 24 inches, or, on an average of 340 cases, 11 inches in circumference. The hypertrophy exists^^principally in the skin and subcutaneous tissue, the fascia, and periosteum; the muscles are wasted, the lymphatic trunks much enlarged and distended, the glands swollen and dense (Fig. 191). Both°in the scrotum and in the leg the morbid tissues are seen to consist of two parts ; “ the hypertrophied layer the skin and more superficial layers of the subcutaneous tissues, and an uiner layer of loose blubber-like, dropsical, yellowish connective tissue—the hypertrophied subcutaneous fascia.” The epidermis is greatly thickened in some places, hardly aflfected in others. The blood-vessels are very numerous and of large size, the lymphatic channels fairly numerous and of considerable diameter. Treatinacnt.—In the treatment of both these conditions, drugs, except quinine in case of malarial complications, are of no service. Lymphangitis must be treated on general principles. In elephantiasis of the leg, IMartin’s bandage is successful in the prevention of hyper- trophy. Chyluria may be modified by rest and careful dieting. Removal of the enlarged scrotum is justifiable on account of the deformity and inconvenience, the sexual disability, and the impair- ment of general health which ensues from the recurrent attacks of pyrexia, which are undoubtedly diminished by removal of the tumour. In undertaking the operation, the tumour must, by elevation and bandaging, be emptied as far as possible of blood, and the restraint of hsemorrhage during the operation is best effected by means of an elastic cord which embraces the neck of the tumour. All diseased tissue, both of the penis and scrotum, must be removed, the testes must be secured in position, and every precaution taken to keep the wound aseptic. The successful results which follow this appa- rently formidable undertaking are remarkable.* Secondary implication of glands.—Sarcoma rarely, but car- cinoma very generally, implicates the lymphatic glands, the frequency very largely depending upon the site and nature of the original tun)our. In cancer, the afection of the gland differs in no respect from that of the primary growth, and the series of changes which take place are of a similar character, and through the lymphatic system the growth may be disseminated throughout the body. The cancer cells are conveyed by the lymphatics to the gland and *The fullest and most complete account of these diseases is to he found in Dr. Pastrick Manson’s article in Davidson’s “Hygiene and Diseases of Warm Climates,” ^ which I am largely indebted for this brief account and for the use here of Figs. 190 and 191.