18 8UEGIGAL BAOTERIOLOOY. specially taken into acconnt is tlie leucocyte, in which, he contends, ii.n /->f rif>Pnnr.Q ofYaiiicif invasioii of micro- we have the first line of defence against organisms. 11. The mode of action of bacteria.—Since the more sys- tematic examination of the prodncts of bacteria has been undertaken, much light has been thrown on the question of how these bacteria act. Some investigators have gone so far as to assume that the whole subject could be resolved into one based on the action of organised poisons. When, howevei', we come to consider that certain disease-producing organisms can produce their poisonous products outside the body, i.e. from dead organic matter, whilst others produce theirs locally in some accumulation of fluid or on a devitalised sur- face ; that some organisms are killed oS’ in the blood but retain their vitality when injected into subcutaneous or other tissues, especially if these tissues be bruised, but that others, again, appear to have the power of parasitic growth even within the blood-vessels, either free or on deposits of lih., in, it is evident that the method of attack must vary very greatly in different forms of bacterial disease. Speaking roughly, the bacterial surgical fevers may be classified under three headings : (1) Sapreemia or true toxaemia, in which the products only of bacteria ^nd their way into the syslem ; under this heading two sets of conditions may be included : (a) in the case of the tetanus bacillus the manufactory may go on entirely outside the body, and the products of the organism, finding their way along with earth into a bruised wound, may set up a distinct tetanic con- dition before the micro-organism has had time to develop any further products within the body \ (b) in other cases of tetanus the bacillus is introduced locally into devitalised tissues : here a fresh quantity of poison is developed by the multiplying organisms at the seat of injury, and is absorbed into the body, the bacilli remaining .strictly localised. In diphtheria there is a similar toxic, condition arising out of the development of poisonous products which are carried into the system, although here again the bacilli are strictly localised to the seat of original invasion. (2) In the case of true_septicgemia. not only the bacterial products; but the bacteria themselves, find their way into the distant parts of the body ; of this there are many examples among the lower animals; such diseases as anthrax and acute hEemorrhagic septicaemia may be taken as examples in the human subject. In the latter disease it is evident that the specific bacteria or their products are acting directly on the walls of the blood-vessels. (3) In order to create a further class for cases m which there are distinct clinical appearances, the old term gyseima may be retained to denominate those cases in which we have the presence of abscesses, the result of septic thrombi or emboli, the active agents in these thrombi and emboli being bacteria which have usually found their way into the body by way of some acci- dental or surgical wound. (See Art. VIII) 12. The nature of the toxic products.-Ihe nature of the toxic products of the more important bacteria has been worked out