WOUNDS AND CONTUSIONS. 222 (b) Where miion by hrst iiiteiitioii fails.—In some in- stances, however, union by first intention does not take place throughout the whole extent of the wound, sometimes because drainage has been omitted where it ought to have been employed, and serum has therefore collected and prevented the approxi- mation of the deep surfaces; at other times because the incisions through the skin have been made obliquely, leading possibly to a narrow slough at the edge; or because the stitches have been much too tight, and have set up a certain amount of irritation ; or because movement of the part has been permitted to an excessive degree. The great cause, however, of failure of union by first intention is the growth in the wound of pyogenic organisms, and these oi'ganisms must have entered from outside, either at the time of the operation or subsequently, and they can only enter if some error have been committed in carrying out the details previously described. Where this cause of failure of union by first intention comes into play, various symptoms arise which indicate what has occurred. In the first place, the temperature rises rapidly to a much higher degree than takes place in the case of the mere reactionary temperature where the wound is aseptic, usually reaching 103° or 104° within twenty-four hours. This rise of temperature is also accompanied with other symptoms of fever, as distinguished from the aseptic rise where no other febrile phenomena are present. The patient presents all the characteristics which have been previously described in connection with inflammation, that is to say, the pulse becomes rapid, the skin hot and dry, the tongue furred, the excretions diminished, and possibly there is some deUrium. The temperature in these cases of trauinatic or inflammatory fever generally begins to fall about the second day, and in uncomplicated and not very severe cases will again reach the normal on the fifth or sixth day; at the same time the patient complains of great pain in the wound, which becomes swollen, the edges of the skin red, and presently pus is found in it. {See page 65.) In other cases after the traumatic fever has passed ofi", or towards the end of its course, other symptoms arise, indicating grave septic complications^ such as septic intoxication, acute septicaemia, or pyaemia, or erysipelas, conditions which are described in other Articles. In ordinary uncomplicated wounds, where these graver forms of septic disease do not arise, the general course is that the edges of the wound in the first instance become glued together, subsequently separate more or less completely, pus exudes from the deeper parts, which become covered with a layer of granulation tissue, and the wound gradually heals from the bottom. Where these symptoms arise, the first point in the treatment is to provide for free exit of the discharge; and, therefore, when a patient’s temperature rises and remains high, and when he complains of pain in the wound, the dressing should at once be changed, some of the stitches removed, the edges of the wound separated at that part with sinus forceps,