1011 ms LOCATIONS OF THE PATELLA. out in bold relief, and is directed outwards or inwards according to the disidacement. There is a depression over the inner condyle in the dislocation outwards, and a prominence over the outer condyle formed by the ])atella, with its external border projecting forwards under the skin, and its inteimal border buried in the inter-condyloid notch. If the displacement is complete, the patella is seen as a hard, flat mass on the outer side of the joint, with its inner edge projecting forwards, while the front of the condyles is readily to bo felt. In the rare inward displacement the same symptoms are observed, but of course, reversed. In the vertical displacement the limb is fixed in extension, the outer edge of the bone lies in the inter-condyloid ^ notch, and the inner edge projects forwards against the skin (Fig. 416). Cases are recorded where the bone has been turned quite round, with the anterior surface against the front of the femur. The cause of this complete rotatory displacement is not clear. Ti’catineiit.—The thigh should be flexed on the body, and the leg completely extended to relax the quadriceps; when under anesthesia the surgeon will usually be able to press the bone back into j)osition (Fig. 417). Flexion with pressure manipulation may also be tried. After reduction, rest on a splint and the ice-bag must be adopted. A strong knee-cap, well padded ex- ternally, should afterwards be con- structed and worn, as there is a ten- dency to recurrence of this dislocation in those with lax ligaments. Re- markable difliculty has sometimes been experienced in the reduction of the rotatory vertical dislocation. This is usually declared by authors to be due to the wedging of the bone into the inter-condyloid notch. Considering the size of the latter as compared with the edge of the patella, this explanation seems to me hardly satisfactory. It is far inore likely that the bone lacerates the capsule, and is tightly girt m its new position by the tough ligamentous fibres of this structure. In the cases I have seen, no difficulty was experienced in reduction by very complete extension of the leg, and forcible pressure upon the prominent edge of the bone, under deep ether anesthesia. Supposing, however, the displacement remains irreducible, what course is to be adopted? Subcutaneous division of the ligamentum patelle has not proved very satisfactory; tlie bone has remained obstinately fixed after this, and more extensive subcutaneous cuttiim Fig. 416.—Vertical Displacement of the Patella.