BACILLUS OF SYPIULTS. 37 also been known to contract the disease. The disclmrge from the nostrils in cases of glanders contains few bacilli, but quite sufficient to make test inoculations of value. A guineapig inoculated sub- cutaneously in the back with discharge from a suspected animal, develops tumefaction at the seat of inoculation; the skin over this ulcerates, and there is discharged first a mass of purulent material, and a chronic ulcer with irregular indurated margins is formed, from , which then comes a sero-purulent discharge; subsequently this ulcer may heal. The lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood are also affected, and may also ulcerate, and at the end of four or five weeks the animal becomes generally infected. The testicles become enlarged, and later there is enhu-gement of the joints, due apparently to an acute in- flammatory process. Field mice die in three or four days. The inoculation test is far easier of application and more satisfactory than microscopic examination, as it is often an exceedingly difficult matter to determine the presence of these bacilli, mixed as they are with an enormous number of other bacteria which develop in the discharge as it accumulates on the surface of the ulcers. In- traperitoneal injection of the suspected fluid from an ulcerated mucous membrane or gland, induces, in the guineapig, inflammation of the testicles in three or four days ; pus is rapidly formed, and in this pus glanders bacilli may be comparatively easily demonstrated, as early as the third or fourth day, especially in the purulent exudate between the two layers of the tunica vaginalis testis. Mallein, the toxic product of the glanders bacillus, is very similar in its character to tuberculin, and has the same specffic properties in relation to glanders that tuberculin has to tuberculosis. Mallem, when injected, appears to have comparatively little effect on the healthy tissues, but when injected into a glandered animal it sets up not only great local reaction at the seat of the infection, but also very marked constitutional disturbances, especially those associated with an increase of temperature. So marked is the local reaction, and so invariably does it occur in glandered horses, that it is now almost universally accepted as an unerring diagnostic feature—as patho- gnomic of the disease in horses. (See also Art. XV. page 30S.) Bacillus of syphilis.—In 1884 Lustgarten described, in certain cases of syphilis, a straight or curved bacillus very similar in appear- ance to the tubercle bacillus, but not stained by the Ziehl-Neelsen method. ^ This organism is curved, may be arranged in pairs set at a comparatively acute angle, or it may be somewhat spiral or S-shaped. ihe ends are slightly enlarged, the outline is slightly wavy, and there are small bright points from two to four in number in each IS about -3^ to -5fi in length and -2yu to •3/x in breadth. IJie bacilli of syphilis are contained in large oval or polygonal cells each cell contaimng only one or two at the most. The letiologicai relation of this organism to syphilis has not been established, as it has never yet been cultivated, and all inoculation experiments nave been unsuccessful. ^ I his organism is stained in the Ehrlich-Weigert gentian violet