tertiary syphilis. 415 inveterate cases all treatment fails. The serpiginous character may be extremely marked. Thus, I have known a ring of syphilitic infiltration steadily spread up from tlie foot to the^ groin, leaving behind it an extremely thin scar, or hardly altered skin. Multiple sHbciitaneous giiiiimata.—Occasionally we meet with very numerous subcutaneous gummata, in their early stage firm and resembling fibromata or the “rheumatic nodules ; later softening, and suggesting chronic pysemic abscesses. They may also be very hard to distinguish from small lipomata or fibro-lipomata, except by the history of their short duration. 3. Tertiary syphilis of the mucous membranes.—It is a remarkable fact that whilst the mucous membrane and submucous tissue of the mouth, pharynx, tongue, and rectum are very commonly involved, the intervening stomach and intestinal tract are hardly ever afiected by tertiary syphilis. The same immunity extends to the bladder, and perhaps the urethra in both sexes. The larynx is often the seat of gummatous or other tertiary disease ; the trachea and bronchi only very rarely. 1. The lips anil huccal mucous membrane.—Here we meet with either gummatous ulcers or, more commonly, verj chronic white patches, often accompanied by superficial fissures or scars. The former, if they involve the lower lip, may require most careful diagnosis from epithelioma. The latter are chiefly to be mistaken for the white patches produced by constant .smoking, combined, perhaps, with the abuse of spirits. Here, as in the case of the tongue and throat, it often happens that tobacco, alcohol and syphilis have combined to produce the result. The white patches referred to (the so-called leukoplakia) consist essentially in thickening of the epithelium (which is sometimes almost warty), with small-celled infiltration and subsequent fibrous sclerosis of the sub-epithelial layer. They oeeur in the seeondary, as well as the tertiary, periods, and are extremely persistent. Side by side with the white patches there may be bald areas, in which the epithelium is very thin; and hence the readiness with which fissures or ulcers occur. There is a grave risk of epithelioma super- vening, especially in the condition of general leukoplakia of the tongue (wrongly termed ichthyosis linguse), in which the whole of the dorsum looks as though coated with layers of white paint. This condition, whether due mainly to syphilis or not, nearly always ends in eancer. 2, Gummata of the toiig:ne, palate, and pliaryng^eal wall*—The ulcers produced, and the subsequent scarring, may cause deep puckering of the tongue, loss of the soft palate, adhesions of the latter to the pharynx, so as almost entirely to shut off the nose from the throat, and much narrowing of the pharyngeal aperture. Fibrous stenosis or stricture from syphilis is not often met with lower than the cricoid cartilage, though undoubtedly a few cases of oesophageal stricture are due to this cause. Gummata of the tongue are chiefly met with on the dorsum, whilst epithelioma and secondarv