thrombosis. 563 blood, especially when it amounts to stasis. Outside the body, com- plete rest of the blood retards its coagulation, but during lite it is an important cause of thrombosis, owing to its interfering with the perfect vitality of the vessel wall and with the proper interchange of aases in the blood ; it also favours the adhesion of the colourless corpuscles to the vessel wall and to one another. A slow venous circulation may be due to a weak heart, to loss of elasticity in the arteries, to dilatation of the veins, or to obstruction to the outflow from the vein, whether caused by a clot in the vessel above, constriction by a ligature or tight bandage, the pressure of a tumour, inflammatory exudaSon or cicatrix, or to disease of the heart or lungs. Compression of a vein, as of the femoral in long-standing flexion of the hip joint, may be followed by thrombosis. The influence of stasis is shown by the frequency with which coagulation begins in the sinuses behind the valves in a vein, where it is reasonable to suppose that there is least movement in the blood when the whole stream is slowed. In the longitudinal sinus, the clot forms first along the superior surface, at the part farthest removed from the openings of the cerebral veins, where, in conditions of marasmus, the flow of blood is slowest. A sudden alteration in the condition of the circulation may lead to thrombosis. For example, when a patient first gets up and moves about after an illness which has confined him to bed, the resumption of the upright position may be followed by thrombosis in a vein of the leg, especially in a varicose vein. Exhaustion is a frequent cause of thrombosis. This is often exemplified in the later stages of phthisis and other suppurative diseases, after typhoid and rheumatic fever, and after severe opera- tions. The slowing of the circulation due to the weak action of the heart, and the diminution in the quantity of the blood, the lowered vitality of the vessel walls, and probably also of the white corpuscles themselves, are the cause of the coagulation. When a clot has been produced by some strictly local process, such as a wound, ligature, or ulcer, exhaustion will often lead to its extension for a considerable distance from its stai'ting-point. Injective hlood conditions, such as pyaemia and septicaemia, have already been mentioned. Apart from the debility they induce, and the possible liberation of “ fibrin-ferment ” they cause, the micrococci circulating in the blood have a powei’ful influence in exciting coagu- lation whei-ever they happen to lodge. Gout is a frequent cause of thrombosis, but it is not determined whether the process starts in the blood—thrombosis, or as a gouty inflammation of the vein—phlebitis. Many cases of thrombosis occur in which it is impossible to assign a cause, and these are, for want of exact knowledge, spoken of as idiopathic in origin. Varieties of tlii'oiiibtis.—When blood at rest coagulates, all the corpuscles, both red and white, are enclosed in the meshes of the fibrin, and the clot is red in colour; it is a red thrombus. On the other hand, when the blood is in rapid motion, as in the case of a puncture