ACUTE ABSCESS. 89 and therefore a tube of suiBcient size should be employed. In fact, one camiot make a mistake in selecting too large a tube. The tube must be of proper length, and not project beyond the surface of the skin, and the portion of the tube which enters the cavity should be perforated laterally with holes, so as to allow the pus to enter it freelv. The tube is best introduced by means of a pair of Lister’s sinus forceps. The forceps are, in the first instance, passed into the cavity in order to ascei'tain its depth, a tube is then cut somewhat shorter than the depth to which the forceps go. It is then intro- duced into the cavity, and the projecting portion cut so as to be flush with the skin. It is either finally secured in its place by a stitch through the skin and the wall of the tube, or else two strings are passed through the wall of the tube and knotted, and it is kept from slipping in by the pressure of the dressing over it. Where Hilton’s method has been employed, it is well before withdrawing the forceps which have dilated the canal to introduce a probe beside them into the cavity of the abscess, otherwise one may miss the track which has been made by the forceps, and when one comes to introduce the tube there may be considerable difficulty in doing so. If, on the contrary, a probe be left in situ, the tube may be readily slipped over the probe until it reaches the abscess cavity. When the tube has been inserted, the swelling may be squeezed so as to expel the greater part of the pus ; but I do not think it is good practice to wash out these abscesses, either with an anti- septic or an aseptic fluid. The whole operation must, of course, be done antiseptically, after the manner which will be described in another article (page 213); and as regards the progress of the case, the dressing should usually be changed on the following day, and then subsequently according to the amount of discharge. After the abscess is opened, the swelling very rapidly subsides, so that even on the next day, if the tube have been introduced quite to the bottom of the cavity, it will be found to project from the wound, and the projecting portion must be cut oft'. It is well not to remove the tube at all for at least three or four days, and this is more especially the case if the abscess have been opened by Hilton’s method. If the tube be taken out too early, considerable difficulty may be found in re-introducing it. As a rule, in an abscess of moderate size the tube may be left out altogether at the end of about a week, and the sinus thus left will generally heal in a further eight or ten days. After the first pus has been evacuated (provided the operation has been done thoroughly aseptically), no further pus is formed, the discharge from the wound consists of thin, fairly clear serum, and as regards the local and general symptoms, imme- diate relief is experienced, the redness passes off, the skin loses its tense shiny appearance and becomes wrinkled, the fever subsides, and the patient rapidly recovers. So far I have described the treatment of an acute abscess as it occurs, say, in the cellular tissue. The treatment must of course vary in many cases with the region which is the seat of the suppuration.