COMPOUND DISLOCATIONS. 957 and consider constitutional diatheses in the prognosis and treatment of joint injuries. This is perhaps more important in the slighter cases. A delicate young person, the offspring of tuberculous parents, will readily suffer from tuberculous disease of an articulation after a slight blow or sprain implicating the hip, spine, or ankle. So in the rheumatic or gouty, a slight joint injury may be associated with such severe pain and intense local I’eaction as to lead a superficial observer to imagine that serious mischief was taking place. In such instances appropriate remedies, especially the salicylates, will speedily remove the symptoms. In tlie syphilitic, periostitis is readily in- duced by a slight blow, and is very obstinate unless the iodides be administered. The most inveterate chronic joint affections, asso- ciated with a tendency to fibrosis and calcification, are found after injury in those who suffer from chronic gout or rheumatism; and prognosis in such should always be guarded. The trealinent of compound dislocation of the larger ioints.—Injuries of the joints of the upper extremity are less serious than like injuries to joints of the lower extremity. The age of the patient and his condition of general health are powerful con- siderations in determining the question of amputation. A healthy country boy, or young adult, will recover from conditions which would be hopeless in the aged or intemperate, or the subjects of visceral disease. Primary amputation for compound injuries at the hip, should always be avoided, if possible. Lesions which make the surgeon’s mind lean towards amputation are extensive splintering of the bones, ruptures of ^le main vessels and nerves, extensive lacerations ofTlm soft parts, or these conditions more or less combined. Simple reduction of a compound dislocation should never be attempted unless the wound in the skin is clean-cut, and there is no extensive laceration. Compound dislocations of the elbow generally do well, but the joint frequently anchyloses. If primary resection is had recourse to, plenty of bone should be removed in joints like the elbow, where subsequent movement is required. In resections the parts should be very freely exposed, and no separated fragments of bone should be left to necrose and keep up irritation. This is espe- cially important in compound dislocations of the astragalus. Very free drainage should be carried out by larger tubes than those usually employed, and the parts should be repeatedly flushed with hot anti- septic lotions, and frequently dressed afterwards so long as serous oozing persists. The continuous irrigation treatment is here very applicable. No fixed rule can be laid down for the treatment of these injuries. The local conditions and the constitutional peculiari- ties, the surroundings and occupation of the patient, will aU be carefully weighed by a judicious surgeon. SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. Dislocation of the lower jaw. Cansatioiu—When the mouth is widely open the condyle of the jaw and the inter-articul^ir