1051 GHR ONIG OSTEO-AR THRITIS. no means limited to the synovial membrane, but involve the carti- lages, bones, and ligaments equally, if not to a greater extent. This is especially true of gout, which must now engage our attention for a few moments. Gout. Hiis disease, as is well known, depends upon the pre- sence in the system of a definite chemical body, the result of faulty metabolism, which ^ in certain tissues leads either to loss of vitality or to low inflammatory changes due to the latter. This chemical substance is urate of soda, which tends to deposit itself in those tissues which naturally possess the least vital energy, namely, in the cartilages, ligaments, and bones. The synovial ^structures’ however, are also aflected. The question then suggests itself whether this deposition may not be due, at all events in part, to lack of vitality in the tissues first mentioned, owing to which they are unable to eliminate or resist the power of the salt to crystallise in them, which it therefore does in tufts of acicular prisms of great delicacy. In solution, too, it passes into the joint with the synovial secretion, and is there precipitated in the crystalline form, and often in sufficient amount to distend the sac with a mass resembling chalk to the eye. It is the presence of this product which is supposed to provoke that hyperEemia culminating in those peculiar explosive attacks of inflammation of the peri-articular structures so familiar to physicians. It is very lilcely, too, that its presence in the tissues in solution produces a loss of energy, laying them open to the degenerative changes which are found in them. The symptoms,^ as seen in the synovial membrane in gouty change, are hypersemia accompanied by heat, redness, and a pufiy swelling, with throbbing pain most marked at night. These symptoms may be observed in almost any joint, but are undoubtedly most frequently seen in those which are most exposed. Among these may be mentioned the knee, elbow, ankle wri^ and above all the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the great toe. I he treatment consists in regulation of diet, the use of diluents, and the administration of laxatives and colchicum in free doses. Really, there must be rest for the part involved, with elevation and tne protection of it from external irritation in the form of rapid alternation of heat and cold. This is best met by wrapping up the par in warm cotton-wool or in moist compresses. Later, gentle massage maybe employed with benefit. It acts in unloading the 1 ^ promoting the absorption of the urate no n 1 ^ tissues. This disease is so commonly considered I'O fhe department of medicine, that its further treat- ment may be relegated to the physician. osteo-arthritis.—It will be convenient to consider in disease which in some respects appears to have many features ^ arthritis, although it cannot be said to range itseit easily among the synovial affections. This is the so-called rheumatic arthritis,” for which a number of other names een proposed, such as “arthritis deformans,” “rheumatic