SUnCrlOAL BAOTimiOLOOY. 14 only after the periosteum has been carefully divided, and that wherever the chisel is used, bruising of the surrounding soft tissues should, as far as possible, be avoided. It would not be necessary to lay such stress on these points could we be absolutely certain of eliminating the action of bacteria in every surgical operation. It is more difficult to clean instruments than was at one time supposed, and it is now recognised that if instruments are to be kept scrupulously clean, they should be washed first in cold water immediately after they have been used (a cold | per cent, saline solution is probably the best for this purpose), then after the removal of the whole of the albuminous material (the fatty matter being removed by means of hot water) the instruments should be soaked in a 5 per cent, watery solution of carbolic acid, or, better still, subjected to moist heat in one of the numerous surgical sterilisers now in the market—that devised by Cathcart being one of the best for this purpose. It has already been mentioned that special conditions appear to be necessary for the local development of pathogenic and pyogenic organisms; for instance, the diphtheria bacillus and the bacillus of pneumonia, the Bacillus lanceolatus and other bacilli, have been demonstrated in the mouth in perfectly healthy individuals, and it is only reasonable to suppose that these organisms do not produce their pathogenic effect simply because they can find no vulnerable point in the mucous membrane with which they are in contact, a’he protection afforded by the surface of the skin is so complete that the presence of pyogenic organisms on its surface is of constant occurrence in healthy individuals, without the slightest inconvenience resulting. Becker in his studies on the micrococcus of osteomyelitis, now known as the Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus, pointed out that even when injected into the circulation the micrococcus produced no appreciable result; when, however, the bones of the leg of a rabbit were crushed and fractured before the micrococcus was injected, the animal died in about a fortnight, ]iresenting at the seat of the fracture the usual appearances of osteomyelitis (Plate II. Fig. 10), and the pus removed was found to contain enormous numbers of Staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. It is interesting to note, however, that more recent experimenters have succeeded in setting up a similar condition of osteomyelitis, even without first injuring the bone m any way. Periostitis too, in many cases a perfectly simple condition, is some- times associated with the most virulent septic inflammation, leaduig to suppuration, separation of the periosteum, and, often a general infection. The only explanation of these acute cases (which almost invariably only follow bruising of the periosteum) is tlmt the i organisms have been temporarily and accidentally present in the circulation before the bruising occurred, and that it has only been when the tissues have had their vitality lowered by inpiry tlmt the bacteria have been able to exert their specific power.s. Bacteria are undoubtedly transported from point topomUiy^e blood in the blood-vessels; of this we have evidence in tlie condition