niP JOINT DISEASE. 1083 nearly so important to distinguish tliese varieties from one another as in the last case. Careful palpation of the back of the acetabulum with the finger in the rectum Avill in some cases aid us here, for we may make out a soft patch or, at all events, a tender sj)ot in the bone. Otherwise, the position of the limb and the other symptoms, objective and subjective, will be the same. Dinifiiosis in tlie advanced stagfcs.—When the disease has begun in the synovial membrane or in either of the bones, and has advanced to any great extent, the appearances will be quite changed, as ali'eady stated. Here, in addition to swelling, heat, tenderness, and perhaps redness, there will be increased flexion, in order that the tender capsule may be further relaxed, and as the latter be- comes softened, abduc- tion will be converted into adduction, and ever- sion into inversion. In this latter state the patient will probably lie upon the sound side, with the knee of the affected limb thrown across its fellow, and resting upon the bed. And as he tries to bring the adducted limb par- allel with its fellow, the pelvis on the affected side must be carried upwards, inasmuch as the angle which the femur forms with the transverse axis of the Fig. 444. Fig. 445. acetabulum cannot be altered without painful movement of the surfaces one upon the other. The diagrams (Figs. 444, 445) will make this clear. A B is the axis of the spine; C D that of the pelvis in its broadest measurement from side to side; B C E the angle of the affected adducted joint. If the limb C E is now to be brought parallel to its fellow without altering the degree of the angle BCE, the axis C D must be altered (Fig. 445). This will give the affected limb the appearance of being shorter than its fellow, though really it often remains of the same length to careful measurement. The movement of the transverse axis of the pelvis can only be accomplished by lateral flexion of the spine. But at the same time the curves of the lower part of the spine will be further changed by the efforts of the patient to bring the limb out ot the position of extreme flexion into one more in the same plane with its fellow. This is illustrated in Fig. 447, in which S represents the axis of the spine, and O P that of the pelvis antero-posteriorly