1067 ANOEYLOSIS. processes, attacking those whose vitality is seriously lowered by the constitutional disease—in other words, it may be a mixed infection. A very remarkable characteristic of this form of bone disease is the possibility of complete recovery of the joint when the inflammatory products have been thoroughly and early let out. ANCHYLOSIS OP JOINTS. Varieties.—In all joints whose surfaces have been altered by inflammation the movements may become limited to any degree after the subsidence of the process, and as a con- sequence of it. This limitation of movement will vary from trifling stifihess to actual suspension of all motion. In the milder cases the difliculty in moving the joint is usually due to disuse, and to plastic exu- dation into the peri-articular structures, the surfaces remaining intact. But in the more marked cases the latter are more or less modified, and their free play one over the other is permanently impaired. This may be due either to actual adhesions of the articular ends of the bones to one another, or to parts of the capsular structures, against which they ought to play freely under normal conditions. In the latter case the movements are usually only limited to a moderate extent, and often not permanently, but in the former the interference with motion is usually very decided and perma- nent. Here we have the encrusting carti- lages more or less altered or destroyed, and their place taken by plastic material, which has organised either into fibrous tissue or bone (Fig. 438). In either case, we speak of the joint being anchylosed, and divide Fig. 438.—Bony Anchylosis of the condition into fibrous and bonv anchv- possible Position. (Prom Univ. College Museum.) losis. The first of these conditions usually results from removal of the superficial layers of the encrustin" cartilage by ulceration, but may follow the complete destruction of the latter, while bony anchylosis or synostosis invariably implies the removal of the cartilages to such an extent, that bone comes into contact with bone, and in many cases it is the result of destruction ot the actual bony surfaces, as well as the cartilages. _ Treatment.—It is important to bear all these distinctions in mind m cases in winch stiffness follows upon inflammatory joint affections, hor It IS qiute plain that measures which would be quite proper for I I 2