ANEURYSM. G60 inner coats of tlio artery, and to leave the wound aseptic; on the appearance of a few drops of bright blood in the discharge from the wound—the precursor of “secondary hajmorrliage”—the femoral artery should be controlled in the groin by compressors or assistants’ fingers, and if this prevents freer haemorrhage, the control should be maintained until the wound is consolidated. If this treatment is unsuccessful, amputation through the thigh is necessary; ligature of the artery at a higher level either fails to arrest the bleeding or it causes gangrene of the limb. If moist gangrene follows the ligature, the limb should be at once amputated above the knee without waiting for any “line of demarcation”; but if the gangrene is dry^ the separation may be left to nature, the mummified part being meanwhile swathed in iodoform wool. When the aneurysm is threatening to become diffused, or is leaking^ into the tissues, the artery above should be at once ligatured, and with great hope of success. But if the aneurysm has really rupiiored into the cellular tissue, or externally, amputation through the lower end of the femur is the only resource. If the sac has ruptured into the knee joint, the artery above should be tied, in the hope that the aneurysm may be consolidated and the blood absorbed from the joint; but if the tumour has caused extensive absorption of the femur and disorganisation of the joint, amputation should be at once practised. For inflammation of the sac, ligature of the artery above with appropriate local treatment is indicated; if suppuration occurs, a free incision should be made to liberate the pus as soon as its presence is detected; if, upon this, haemorrhage occurs, the surgeon should attempt to excise the sac and secure the artery beyond the area of inflammation, and failing in this, he must amputate the limb. Gangrene of the leg and foot may occur as the direct result of the aneurysm, either from venous obstruction, embolism, or arterial thrombosis. If from venous obstruction it will be moist in variety, and involve the whole limb up to the knee ; the only treatment that can be employed is immediate amputation above the aneurysm. If the gangrene is arterial and dry, and it involves all the foot and part or the whole of the leg, amputation is lilcewise indicated ; but if it is limited in area, involving the toes only perhaps, these mummified parts may be left to separate, and the aneurysm treated on ordinary principles. Aneurysm in the leg and foot.—Aneurysm is rare below the ham, and in the leg and foot is usually traumatic in origin, resulting from gunshot wounds, stabs, punctures, and fractures. When complicating fracture of the leg, the firm application of the splints employed for this injury is often sufficient to cure the aneurysm. In other cases, circumscribed aneurysm in the leg must be treated by compression of the femoral artery or ligature of the popliteal trunk. If the aneurysm is ruptured, an attempt may be