ANEURYSM. «50 symptoms develop varies in different cases ; in some they quickly run on to pronounced exophthalmos and blindness, in others the course is slow, and the symptoms may remain stationary for years, or even abate spontaneously. The pulsation, the thrill, the loud bruit, and the effects of compression of the common carotid artery distinguish this condition from a pulsating sarcoma in the orbit, the only other liable to be confounded with it. An exact diagnosis of the cause of a given case of “ orbital aneurysm ” is often difficult and may be impossible. If congenital in origin it may safely be regarded as a cirsoid aneurysm ; if traumatic in origin the cause is most probably a rent of the carotid artery, where it lies in the cavernous sinus — aneurysmal varix. In the idiopathic cases attention should be paid to the history and to any concomitant affection. A history of a sensation as of a sudden snap behind the eye before any proptosis or pulsation was noticed would justify the diagnosis of aneurysm. The existence of suppuration in the ear, nose, face, or about the base of the skull would support the diagnosis of thrombosis, and if the affection spreads to the other orbit, is attended with fever of a remittent type, or if rigors and secondary abscesses occur, this diagnosis is established. Cardiac disease or general arterial de- generation would suggest aneurysm. Treatment.—^Prolonged rest in bed with avoidance of all car- diac stimulants in many cases leads to a gradual or more abrupt cure, and should always be carefully tried before resoiting to other measures. In addition, an ice-bag may be applied externally and iodide of potassium given internally. If, in spite of this treatment, the symptoms persist, the internal carotid artery should be tied in the neck, if there is reason to believe that the condition is an aneurysm or an aneurysmal varix; in such cases this operation has been very successful. For cirsoid aneurysm electrolysis may be used before, or after, resorting to ligature of the carotid. Electrolysis has been successfully adopted in some other cases. For mfective thrombosis of the sinus no surgical measures are of any avail. Aneurysm of the subclavian artery.—Subclavian aneurysm is much more common in men than women, and on the right than the left side, and this is believed to be due to the influence upon the artery of free and forcible movement of the shoulder and of injuries to the part. Although strain and over-use of the right arm play an important part in causing spontaneous aneurysm, true traumatic aneurysm from wound of the artery has not been met with, partly because the vessel is so well protected from diiec iniury and partly because the hsemorrhage from a wounded sub- clavian artery is quickly fatal. There are, however, at least two recorded cases of aneurysmal varix from stabs. f ^v, Symptoms.—An aneurysm may arise from any part oi the artery, except the first part on the left side, but is rnost common in the third part of the artery. It usually forms a smaU tumour about the size of a hen’s egg in the clavicular triangle, but it may be much