XIII. THE INFLUENCE OF CONSTITUTIONAL CONDITIONS UPON INJUEIES. By FEEDERICK TREVES, F.E.C.S., Surgeon to, and Lecturer on Surgery at, the London Hospital. It is needless to state that the age, the state of health and the genei'al condition of a patient, affect in varying degi-ee the prognosis after injury and the result after surgical operation. In the case of urgent operations, performed for the immediate purpose of saving life—as in the relief of strangulated hernia—few considerations weigh with the sui’geon save the one great need. But in slighter operations it is of infinite importance that every possible consideration be given to aU circumstances that may affect the patient’s well-being. Every surgeon must have met with instances where he has regretted the neglect of this fundamental precaution. I once snipped off with the scissors a small fibrous epulis growing from the gum of a little boy. It was discovered afterwards—what should have been known before—that the patient was the subject of haemophilia. The small woixnd became the seat of almost uncontrollable haemorr- hage, and it was not until a fortnight had elapsed that the patient could be said to be out of danger. In another case—at the patient’s earnest request—a small sebaceous cyst was removed from the scalp of a man of fifty. The wound soon broke down, suppurated freely, and became the starting-point of a low form of erysipelas of which the patient nearly died. It was discovered after the operation that the man was suffering from diabetes, a fact of which he himself was not aware. In forming a proper estimate of the risks involved by operations —so far as the condition of the patient is concerned—and the pros- pect of sound recovery after injury, many factors have to be considered, and in the paragraphs which follow the more important are dealt with. Age.—Age exercises a considerable effect upon the result of injuries. Taking amputation as a type of injury, it will be found that quite young children—those under the age of five—do not bear operation well, the mortality being as high as between the ages of