845 FllAGTURES OF THE FEMUR. indirect, and muscular violence. The line is sometimes transverse, but usually oblique. —All the signs of fracture are generally present, but the size of the thigh may render their detection difficult. Except in transverse fractures, with little or no displacement, there is always shortening from the action of the hamstrings and quadriceps; when there is no shortening, angular deformity forwards and outwards, due to the hamstrings, is often present or is developed by any endeavour to raise the limb voluntarily. Ever- sion of the limb below the fracture is present in all but greenstick fractui’es, fractures without displacement, and a few cases in which violence or accident in loose cases has inverted the foot. In the upper third the upper fragment generally points forwards and rather outwards owing to the almost unopposed contraction of the ilio-psoas and glutei (Figs. 284, 285); probably the lower frag- ment, which has dropped bacli and is then drawn up, often pushes the upper fragment forwards, and keeps it in this position (Figs. 286, 287), or in some other direction (Fig. 288). On the other hand, if the line of fracture be unusual, and the lower fragment lies in front of the upper, the above deformity is prevented (Fig. 285). Fig. 288.—A compound suiira-cnmlyloid Fracture —oblique, downward.s and inwards. The shaft projected 2 ins. through tlie skin, internal to the patella, and its end has undergone necro- sis. (St. Bartholon.ew’s Hospital Museum. No. 766.) (H. Marsh.) Fractures of the lower end of the femur.—Here we have supra-condyloid fractures, trans- verse or oblique, from behind downwards and forwards (Fig. 288); T- and Y-shaped fractures (Figs. 211, 289), often comminuted; sepa- ration of the lower epiphysis ; fractures of the condyles. In all the above, unless interlocking prevent it, shortening will occur, and unopposed flexion of the lower fragment upon the tibia by the gastrocnemius. The latter displacement should always bo looked for: if it be missed, either there will be no union, or the patient will^ recover with a straight leg but a flexed knee (Fig. 290). There is a tendency also for the lower fragment to drop backwarfls away from the upper. The rough end "of the flexed