DISLOCATIONS OF THE SHOULDER. 969 conscientiously to assign it a high practical value. (5) An increase in the circumferential measurement of the shoulder taken vertically • (6) if a rule be placed along the outer side of the arm it will impinge against the point of the acromion. {See Fig. 380.) ° Ihe special symptoms of subcoracoid displacement, in addition to the above, are as follows : The elbow is carried backwards and is directed away from the side. The limb appears lengthened,’ but on measurement from the tip of the acromion to the external "COndvle this will be difficult to verify. On deep palpation in the axilla, the upper part of the shaft will be felt, and on raising the elbow the head of the humerus will be detected anteriorly and internally ; while at the same time the hollow under the acromion is more evident to sight and feeling. There is a prominence beneath the coracoid, and severe “numbing” pain down the foi’e-arin and in the fingers is often experienced in this dislocation. 2. Subg^lenoid dislocation of tlie Immei’iis. Causation.— A fall on the abducted limb and outstretched hand, or a heavy blow upon the upper and outer end of the humerus (Hamilton). Morbid anatomy. —This disloca- tion was long thought to be far more common than is really the case. It may be looked upon as a variety of the former dislocation, in which the head of the bone rends the capsule inferiorly7~~but the mliscles faiRo rai^'irbeneath the coracoicl, biT account of the capsiile The head of the bone lies beneath the glenoid fossa on t^triangular surface, and origin of the long head of the f Ifsubscapularis is"now above the head of the bone, the triceps is behind it, and the teres major below. le structures just named may be lacerated or stretched The short muscles attached to the tuberosity may be torn, or even that piocess wrenched off. The vessels and nerves are invariably pressed upon and the circumflex neiwe is very TikeTy to be seriously Lma'^ed^ is mmSLXf a™ is really lengthened, and the elbow f froifiThe side, to which it cannot be approxi: rS! 'V The hollow beneath the acXi^Si axilla^ The^fiifcr^'^'^ the head of the bone is felt with ease in the liead of the beneath the coracoid, above the as to ^J®,«^terior axillary fold is so markedly lowered he most characteristic inspection symptom di,lo^“ is a ,„05t V.re ™4ty of' .ubslenoW u 1 ■. abducted and raised, the axis of tbe umerus being directed upwards and outwards. This accident seems SSl.—Subglenoid Dislocation of tlie Hmnerus.