SUliGIGAL UAGTEltlOLOGY. 28 Second group. StrejAococcus erysipelatis and Slrej)lococcu8 eepto- pymnicus.—-The Streptococcus erysipelatis and Streptococcus septo- pysemicus have been described as separate species, though they are probably the same. Their morphological features are very much those of the organisms already described; they are from -7/x to Sy in diameter, occur as diplococci, or as long chains, and arc usually found in the lymph channels of the skin or mucous membranes, in cases of erysipelas (page 164). Grown in gelatine, they appear as very minute points, with scant surface growth; on plates the colonies are small, rounded or ovoid, finely granular, with somewhat irregular margins. On agar-agar they develop as very delicate, translucent, greyish, slightly raised colonies, which spread somewhat slowly in the case of Streptococcus erysipelatis, but more rapidly in the so-called Streptococcus septo- pymmicus. Streptococcus erysipelatis, however, does not grow upon potato, whilst small dirty white colonies, somewhat raised from the surface, appear when the Streptococcus septopymmicus is sown. Either of these organisms, when inoculated into the ear of a rabbit, sets up, first of all, an erysipeloid inflammation usually unaccom- panied by suppuration; in the human subject the organism is found just beyond the spreading margin of erythema in cases of erysijpelas, and appears to be very readily killed, disappearing in any region in which the blush is well marked. In this respect these organisms differ somewhat from Streptococcus pyogenes, which develop, in the human tissues more readily than the erysipelas coccus; this, howevei, may be partly a question of situation and partly one of oxygen and food supply and removal of the excretory products of the microbes. Nencki and his pupils maintain that the difference in the products of the two organisms, when grown in various media, indicates that the Streptococcus pyogenes and the Streptococcus erysipelatis aie distinct species. (See Art. VII.) i 4. r • Third group. Streptococcus articulorum.—The last ol the irn- portant members of the pyogenic organisms is the Streptococcus arti- culorum, separated by Loeffler from the mucous membranes in cases of diphtheria. It occurs in long chains, of which each segment consists of two hemispheres showing in stained specimens a delicate, clear, intermediate zone. It grows in the form of small, limpid, light crrey drops with slightly irregular outlines. On potato, after eight days, the colonies are like those of Streptococcus erysipelatis, and are only distinguishable under the microscope. On blood serum, alone or mixed with peptonised meat infusion, a thin, pale, glistening or greyish-white layer appears at the end of a couple ot_ days, ilie Organism is pathogenic for mice but not for guineapip. When injected into the veins of a rabbit, the joints seem to be specially affected, early death resulting. A large number of other pyogenic streptococci have been d^ icribed, bSt they are probably similar to those above-mentioned, and it is unnecessary to do more than indicate the tyjies of diseases v t which they are associated. They are found, for instance, m puerperal