ACUTE NECROSIS. 879 progress of the case, wliicli may be estimated so far as these points are°concernecl by the temperature and the amount of discharge. If a joint becomes involved, it must be treated in the same way, by free incisions. The general condition of the patient must not be neglected. A most tr/ing and exhausting illness is before him. It is, therefore, necessary to support his general health by a generous and easily assimilated diet. Stimulants, as a rule, are advisable, and morphia at times may be given to allay pain and lessen the irritability which is so commonly seen in this disease. Amputation may have to be considered, especially where a joint is involved, and the patient shows signs of sinking from the severity of the strain which is necessarily thrown upon his vital powers. The absence of sleep and inability to take freely of nourishment are, as a rule, the indications which warn the surgeon of the impending danger. The occurrence of pytemia may also necessitate amputation, as by that means the source of further septic emboli is removed. The extraction of dead bone resulting from this disease can only be accomplished when it has become detached from the living, and is lying loose in its periosteal shell. The mode of separation and the method of removal will be described under Necrosis (page 887). There is, however, one exception to this rule. In cases of total necrosis—i.e. the death of the whole circumference of a long bone, a condition which has probably been estimated by the surgeon’s finger at the first examination—the dead part may be twisted oft' from the epiphysis without waiting for the invaginating peri- osteal sheath. It is not necessary, or in all cases advisable, to do this at once, for it is better in the case of the femur, which has no parallel bone to maintain the length of the limb, to wait to see how the patient stands the exhausting nature of his illness. If it is clear that he will have a hard battle for life, and especially if it be the tibia or fibula which is involved, subperiosteal re-section should be undertaken. If the whole length of bone has been bared of its periosteum, it may be sawn across in the middle, and each end removed by twisting it off from the epiphysis. If total necrosis has affected only one end of the diaphysis, the saw is applied at the junction of the dead and living bone, and the necrosed part removed from the epiphysis in the same manner. The discharge will, in suitable cases, at once diminish, and the patient be relieved from a very serious drain upon his con- stitutional powers. Means must be taken to maintain the length of the limb by extension, and new bone will form of equal sti’ength to that which has been removed. 3. Chronic periostitis.—Simple uncomplicated chronic perios- titis is rare except in syphilis, but as a part of a general osteitis it is common enough. (Osteitis, page 873, and Syphilitic Diseases of Bone, page 892.) As regards the diagnosis of chronic periostitis from osteitis, the enlargement involves only the surface of one aspect of the bone, whilst in osteitis the whole thickness of the bone should