64 INFLAMMATION. over the part is of a bright red colour, due, of course, to the presence of an excessive amount of arterial blood in that region, this redness being, however, much more extensive than the actual inflamed area, owing to reflex paralysis of the blood-vessels around. Tlie redness of the ordinary acute inflammation also shades off gradually at the circumference, there being a gradual passage from the normal condi- tion of the vessels beyond to the dilated condition of the vessels at the centre. It is only in certain specific inflammations—such as ery- sipelas—that there is a definite limitation of the reddened area. As the inflammation continues, this redness becomes darker towards the centre, owing to the greater difficulty which the blood there finds in passing through the capillaries, and its consequent increased venosity. There also the redness is, after a time, not only due to dilatation of the blood-vessels and increased quantity of blood, but also to actual pigmentation of the tissues, as the result of the passing out of the red corpuscles from the blood-vessels, their disintegration in the tissues, and the deposit of the blood pigment there. Consequently, when the inflammation has lasted for a considerable time, a certain amount of staining of the tissues will often remain for some weeks or months. When the inflammation subsides, the redness of the region also dis- appears 3 but this disappearance is for a time not complete, because the recovery of the tone of the vessels is somewhat slow. Hence for some weeks or months the part which has been the seat of an acute inflammation can be recognised from its increased vascularity after exertion, and also from the pigmentation of the skin, when the inflammation has been intense or long-continued. An acutely inflamed part always gives the sensation of greatly increased heat to the hand; and it was at one time a question that was thought to be of importance, and was consequently much debated, whether this increased heat was actually generated in the inflamed part or whether it was merely noticeable because there was such an inerksed amount of hot blood in that area. It seems to me that— takincr into consideration the various experiments which have been made—it may be asserted that there is a slight, though very slight, veneration of heat in the inflamed area, and that the blood which returns from that part is very slightly higher in temperature than that which comes to it. The matter, however, is_ one which, accord- in" to our present views, is of practically no importance, and an increased production of heat in the inflamed part is only what one would expect as the result of the active chemical changes which must be going on there. , „ , • n i- The swelling which occurs as the result of a,cute inflammation in a part varies in character according to the portion of the inflaincd area which is examined. In the centre of the inflamed area the swelling is hard and brawny, and it is not easy to press the fingei into it On the other hand, at the margin the swelling is soft, and the linger readily causes pitting. The explanation is that in the centre of the inflamed area the swelling is due to the presence of solid material which is deposited in the tissues, this material being in the