768 INJURIES OF BONES. (1) to “ set” the fracture ; (2) to apply, if necessary, such apparatus as will maintain the fragments in position. There are a few preliminaries of general importance to be attended to. For a fracture of the pelvis or thigh the bed should be prepared by placing fracture-boards across beneath the mattress to prevent it from sinking under the weight of the pelvis. Clothes must be removed from the injured part with all gentleness, seams being cut up, boots being fully unlaced and drawn off whilst the lower part of the limb is most thoroughly steadied, etc. Till a fracture has been examined it should be assumed to be all but compound. The limb should next be well washed with flannel, soap, and hot water; if hairy, shaving will mitigate itching, and a wash with 1 to 1000 perchloride of mercury lotion will help in the same direction, by checking decomposition of sweat. Everything being in readiness for the application of retentive apparatus, the fracture should now be “set.” (1) The setting' of a fracture means the removal, so far as Fig. 22.^.—Wyeth’s Universal TreUis Splint. It is the type of many easily extemporised splints. should follow immediately on the complete examination, that the necessary pain may be got over in one bout. It is a principle in the setting and treatment of fractures that force should not be used to overcome resistance which may be conquered by art— i.e. by the relaxation of parts. Let us take, for example, the ordinary oblique fracture of both bones of the leg, with displacement upwards and backwards of the lower fragments, maintained by the great calf muscles, which con- tract directly an attempt—probably painful—is made to reduce the deformity. Here, with the patient on his back, the hip and knee should be flexed to 90° by an assistant grasping the tliigh just above the knee, so that his thumbs press firmly on the quadriceps tendon. His hands should form a fixed point of counter-extension. Another assistant, grasping the foot, has raised it and the lower fragment correspondingly. Tinder the direction of the surgeon, the latter makes extension, and performs angular or rotatory movements of the foot and lower fragment. When the surgeon is satisfied with the result, as tested by eye, finger, and tape, the assistants maintain the status’quo, whilst he applies the splints. Straightening of the knee should be very gradual, and may be altogether inadvisable. Fig. 254 gives another example of extension and counter-extension.