KNEE JOINT DISEASE. 1107 well as patient, treatment of tuberculous disease lias led to the arrest of much disease which would formerly have run on to complete destruction of the ends of the femur and tibia; and, on tlie otlier hand, wlien o[ierative treatment is decided on, it is now usually at a stage at which the removal of the diseased parts of the hones can he accomplished without complete re- moval of the ends. But at the same time, though the bones are treated in a much more conservative way than formerly, the removal of the synovial membrane is now particularly free, and sometimes amounts to its entire extirpation. Indeed, in those cases in which a movable joint is not to be ' expected so great is the amount of the disease, we cannot do better than dissect out every fragment we can trace of synovial membrane, whether visibly infected or not. And now let us take a case of tuberculous disease of the knee suffi- ciently advanced to call for operation, and consider how we may best secure the removal of the diseased tissue, whether it lie in the bone or in the synovial structures (Fig. 455). Of course, if it have invaded the soft parts external to the capsule, and have formed abscesses in them, the same principles of removal guide us as in the other instances. Nowin such a case the first principle which is paramount is the eradication of all tissue in which we believe the tubercle to have been deposited; the next is to spare all structures, except the synovial mem- bi'ane, which are not infected with tlie parasite. This sounds a fairly simple problem, but as a matter of fact is far from being so in most cases. Tlie first & incision into the knee Fii<. 455.—Tulierciilovis Disease of the Knee Joint starting in the Synovial Membrane, and producing superficial Necrosis of Bone. (From University College Museum.) joint may be made in a variety of ways, so as to gain access to the whole of the diseased tissue within. In the older operations, in which an absolutely stiff joint was the object aimed at, it was immaterial whether the ligamentum patellte was divided or not, inasmuch as the action of the extensor muscles was not of importance. In some of the newer operations, in which an attempt is made to preserve some or all the movements, the ligament is preserved intact.