GANGRENE. 140 vessels, and thus complete blocking of the vessel may result, and once this has taken place the thrombosis may extend up the vessel, and progressively cut off the supply of blood to distal parts. This condition of the vessels leads to certain symptoms which precede the appearance of gangrene, and which are essentially due to imperfect supply of blood to the part beneath. Thus, one of the chief complaints of the patient, even long before the senile gangrene occurs, is the great coldness of his feet, which is not re- lieved by any application of warmth. He also complains of per- verted sensations in his feet, due to imperfect supply of blood to the nerves. Thus he suffers much from tingling in the feet, and does not feel the ground properly when he walks, and feels in fact as if there were something soft between his feet and the ground. When a patient comes complaining of these perverted sensations and coldness, examination of the blood-vessels will almost always show that they are rigid tubes instead of being compressible, and that there is little or no pulsation in them. Where these symptoms are present, one must be on one’s guard against the occurrence o senile gangrene, and must take measures to prevent, or at any rate to delay, its occurrence as much as possible. In the first place, the patient may try to keep the feet somewhat warmer, but great care must be taken not to apply too much heat. For instance, if the feet were placed in a bath at a temperature of 100'’ or more, m the normal condition the blood-vessels would dilate, and a larp quantity of blood be carried to the part; but in this condition t e vessels cannot do so, and the only effect of such excessive warmth wffl be to weaken the vitality of the tissues. Hence the ternperature of the bath should not be higher than 90° to 94°, and in addition o this friction of the limb must be employed. Then the patimt must be especially cautioned against any injury to his feet. He mus not wear tight boots, and he must avoid any scratches or other iniury ; for example, he must take great care m paring _^s nails not to wound the skin, and he must be specially careful if he has The further history of the case (where these preliminary symptoms have appeared) is that the patient gets a ^^ound on his foot or toe, or a blister from too tight boots, or from talk- ing too much, and this becomes inflamed, and the inflamed part dies. Once the gangrene has started it goes on very slowly, and it may be months before more than the toes die, and in the process^ of death the tissues dry up and we have the tj^pical appearances previously described as characteristic of (See Fi" 24) The patient for some time remams in a very oooa £te ofteali, and ifis great complaint is the P-Ylnch he suto and which may be intense. This pain is partly _ due to impel feet supply of bloJd to the nerves, partly to neuritis, and Pai’tfy ^Iso to the fact that the axis cylinder of the f ™ structures to die, and consequently in a part »hich is ahead} de.d