INJUBIEJS OF BONES. 758 outer edge becomes rounded, and thin union is effected just external to the dura mater, so that the inner surface is rendered smooth and continuous ; but permanent gaps may remain. The scapula (Fig. 242) and ilium (Fig. 272) are repaired more freely, because they are thickly covered, and mobility of the fragments keeps up irritation. The fragments of fractured spongy hones are not, as a rule, much displaced. Little external callus forms, but the pieces are welded together by callus between them, which first becomes abnormally dense, and then assumes more and more nearly the type of the bone of which it forms a part. Articular cartilage is repaired by fibrous scar, which replaces the early blood-clot, and is in its turn slowly replaced by true cartilage. Bits chipped off either remain loose or become encapsuled and attached to some part. Rib cartilages are united by fibrous callus, of which the sub- perichondral portion ossifies, forming a bony cylinder, clasping the ends together. Little is known of the reunion of detached epiphyses; we should ex- pect that when the detachment occurs in bone, union would occur as in fracture, and when in cartilage, by fibrous tissue. Danger to gro'vrfh lies in replacement of the gro\ving carti- lage by either bone or fibrous tissue. The new vessels communicate. Microscopic changes. — Cell- infiltration of soft parts round about a fracture begins at once after the injury; by the second day all are swollen, their structure is obscured, and they are blending in one mass. The torn periosteum is at first lost in the early swelling, but as the callus acquires firmness, a section shows upon its sux’face, a fibrous streak uniting the periosteum on the two fragments; this gradually assumes the structure of periosteum, but it is some time before it becomes distinct from the scar in the soft parts around the fracture. New vessels develop rapidly, and establish connections between the vessels of the stripped-up periosteum and those of the bone on the one hand, and of the soft parts on the other. Thus a mass of vascular granulation-tissue forms round the bones and, more slowly, also in their medullary cavities and Haversian canals, and forms a soft bond of union between the fragments, obtaining a hold upon them by absolute continuity with their soft parts and vessels. Some authorities regard the infiltrating cells as leucocytes. Fig. 221.—A transverse section of the Tibia of a Dog close to a Fracture eight days old. a. Internal calUie; 6, external callus; c, cortex of tibia. X 20. (Billroth.)