418 SYPHILIS. syphilis Usually onset of such as oculo- even tlie vagina may sufTer severely ; and in both sexes, the tertiary ulcers may take on phagedaenic action. The mistake is readily made of diagnosing these ulcers as primary venereal sores, though the presence of a typical gummatous slough may prevent this error. 4. Tertiary disease of the nervous system.—Some men- tion must here be made of some of the most common lesions, although they form so large and important a chapter in the history of tertiary syphilis, that the reader must be referred to works on medicine for their full consideration. Liocomotor ataxia is one of the most frequent diseases of the nervous system due directly or indirectly to syphilis j in fact, according to Fournier and others, a history of previous can be obtained in from 50 to 70 per cent, of its subjects, many years elapse between the secondary stage and the tabes dorsalis, which may develop by various symptonis, lightning pains, inco-ordination of movement in walkin motor paralysis, bladder or rectal trouble, Charcot s disease of the joints, etc. Atrophy of the optic nerve may precede the more usual symptoms of tabes. A steady progress from bad to worse is the rule, even though there be a clear history of syphilis and careful mercurial and iodide treatment be carried out; but now and then very ^^ood results follow a prompt resort to these remedies. Clironic spinal meningitis, myelitis, or gnmmata pressing on the cord are other lesions due sometimes to syphilitic disease, and more or less complete paraplegia below the level affected is usually the result. Recovery, complete and permanent, has been observed in many cases under thorough anti-syphilitic treatment, though in most the prognosis must be very guarded. Witliin the cranium we have to notice the following - 1. Gummata pressing on some part of the brain, starting from its bony case, or from the meninges (pia or dura mater), and causmg symptoms which vary with the exact site and the amount of cortical substance pressed upon and infiltrated. _ , 2. Chronic meningitis, perhaps affectmg the sheaths of the cerebral nerves, or occurring in a patch upon the surface of the brain, most commonly at the base. _ 3. Disease of the cerebral arteries, leading to their narrowing or thrombosis, or to aneurysm (sometimes multiple). ^ 4 Neuritis, especially of the optic and ocular nerves (th r , fourth, and sixth), which may be secondary to the_ legions men- tioned under the headings 1 and 2, or may_ occur nidependently of them. Of all the cranial nerves, those passing through the vv a of the cavernous sinus are most often attacked, the seventh a nleo-ia for epilepsy or epileptiform convulsions, for paial>_sis o reSai ne“ve?i whilst its share in a form of general paralysis and of insanity is not thoroughly established, but very probable.