NEURALGIA. 69] m-ominent symptom of an obscure affection, and, in the case of intra-pelvic tumours, pain in the course of individual nerves may be very severe. In any case of persistent pain in the course of one of the nerve trunks of the limbs, a careful examination should always be made to ascertain if there is any pressure cause which can be discovered. _ _ j • Neuralgia caused by peripheral irritation is well illustrated in the case of facial neuralgia due to a carious tooth ; and the pain felt in the testis as a result of renal calculus affords another well recognised example of the same kind. The peripheral pains due to disease of the spinal cord are unfortunately common in tabes dorsalis, and severe neuralgic pain is also of common occurrence in cases of spinal caries; in many of the latter the pain felt in the chest and stomach is much more severe than that in the back. The pain of neuralgia.—The pain of neuralgia is localised, more or less accurately, to the area supplied by a certain nerve or nerves. It is usually of a darting or shooting character, and radiates from a central point. Pressure upon the spot where the affected nerve emerges from a bony canal or from beneath the fascia frequently intensiffes the pain. Epileptiform neuralgia is a very severe variety of this affec- tion. It almost invariably attacks the face, and may follow the course of any one or of all the branches of the fifth pair of nerves. Two varieties are described. In the one the pain is accompanied by spasm, and twitching of the facial muscles ; in the other there is no accompanying spasm. This form of neuralgia does not appear ro be associated with any condition of ill-health, and occurs in perfectly healthy people of all ages. Fortunately, it is a rare affection. The attacks are intermittent, sometimes lasting for only a few days. They may extend over many weeks or months, and the intervals between the attacks may be weeks, months, or even years. The paroxysms of pain have usually a very sudden onset. Their duration varies from a few seconds to half a minute, seldom exceeding the latter limit. They may be repeated so rapidly that the intervals are scarcely appreciable, or several minutes may elapse between the paroxysms. A paroxysm may be started by any stimulus applied to the branches of the fifth nerve. Thus, a draught of cold aii-, an attempt to swallow liquid or to masticate food, the slightest touch of the hair of the face, or an attempt to speak, may initiate an attack of pain. This, commencing usually at a single spot, quickly radiates over the neighbouring skin and mucous membrane, and in some cases spreads over the whole face. The mucous membrane of the lips, gums, and nostrils is just as much the seat of pain as is the skin, and in some instances the secretions are altered, the nostrils becoming hot and dry, or the eyes filled with tears. The pain varies in character as well as in intensity, patients usually describing it as burning hot, or as if the flesh wei’e being crushed and torn. During the paroxysm the patient usually clasps his face in his hands, and seems to obtain some relief by the compression of the seat