229 diseases of cicatbices. described, by thoroughly scrubbing the parts with a nail-brush and stmng antiseptic solution, the patient naturally being under chloro- form In lacerated wounds it is very often more difficult to cornplete 'the disinfection, owing to the fact that the instrument which ^s produced them may have been covered with grease or dirt. JNo attempt should be made to stitch up a, lacerated wound. It an exten^ve flap of skin has been torn off, it may be held somewhat in position by one or two stitches, but union by first intention is quite out of the question, and the wound should therefore be left open to permit a free escape of the discharge. Where the wound is aseptic, healing occurs usually by blood clot; but where the skin has been extensively torn off, it is well—when once the clot has become par- tially organised—to remove the half-organised surface and cover the part with skin grafts; otherwise a long time may elapse before healing is complete, and excessive contraction of the neighbouring parts may take place. W here the attempt at asepsis has failed, con- stant irrigation is again the most favourable method of treatment. DISEASES OF CICATRICES. While in cases where union by first intention has taken place the cicatrix is usually quite satisfactory, this is not by any means the case where cicatrices have followed wounds in which the edges have not come together. In such cases we may have (1) weak cicatrices which are constantly tending to break down, (2) painful cicatrices, (3) contracting cicatrices, or (4) a cheloid condition, the latter also occurring in union by first intention. 1. Weak cicatrix.—Where a cicatrix constantly tends to break down, the cause is generally to be found in the large size of the original sore and in the incomplete contraction which has taken place during the healing processes. Hence these cicatrices are generally found after very extensive burns, towards the centre of the part injured, or where the scar is attached to bone, etc.; and the treatment in these cases must consist in the first instance in the prophylactic treatment, namely, the avoidance of these cicatrices, or if they have occurred, one must attempt to remedy them by permitting a proper amount of contraction. Where we have a large wound we may feel pretty certain that if the healing of the wound be left to nature, the centre of the scar will be weak, and therefore in these large wounds it is well before healing has progressed to any great extent to employ skin grafting, even although the wound aflects the trunk or the upper extremity. By doing so a much sounder scar will be obtained and much less contraction will be necessary. Where, however, we have to do with an already-formed cicatrix which is constantly giving way, if the condition be due to inefficient contraction one must attempt to remedy this by freeing the scar by tenotomy, by plastic opera- tions, etc. As a rule, skin grafting at this period does not produce