DJSL0GATI0N8. 1018 scaphoid, and thus produce a dislocation of tlie foot backwards. Again, a person jumping from a great height, and aligliting on the front of the foot, may readily suffer from a dislocation back- wards. In exceptional instances these displacements are produced by direct violence, and the rare dislocation of the foot forwards has been described as occurring from the effects of a heavy blow on the front of the tibia, driving that bone backwards on to the upper surface of the os calcis. All dislocations of the ankle may be complete or incomplete, but the incomplete are far more common. A tabular view of dislocations of the ankle in order of frequency and importance would be as follows ;—Outwards, inwards, back- wards, forwards, and upwards between the tibia and fibula. The ankle is also displaced in the upward direction in Dupuytren’s frac- ture, when the foot and astragalus, still connected with the lower fragment of the broken fibula, are forced upwards along the outer side of the tibia. In the lateral displacements fracture almost in- variably co-exists. Lateral dislocations of tlie ankle ontwards or in- wards. Morbid anatomy.—These displacements are almost always combined with fracture of the malleoli, the lateral ligaments being of great strength. The astragalus is also usually rotated on its antero- posterior axis, so that its lateral articular surfaces look obliquely upwards. It is exceptional for the astragalus and foot to be displaced horizontally outwards or inwards ; yet such dislocations occur, and the broken malleolus is usually displaced outwards or inwards with tlie foot. In the complete horizontal displacement of the foot outwards, the foot and lower fragment of the fibula may be drawn upwai’ds along the outer side of the tibia until arrested by the lower end of the upper fragment of the fibula. This is tenned Dupuytren’s fracture. The common outward lateral displacement is incomplete. The fibula is broken about four inches from the tip of the outer mal- leolus ; the tip of the internal malleolus is torn off by the powerful deltoid ligament, and the astragalus and foot are rotated so that the outer articular facet of the astragalus looks obliquely upwards and outwards (Pott’s fracture). {See page 868.) _ In the incomplete dislocation inwards, the external malleolus is broken oft, or the external lateral ligament ruptured. The inner malleolus may remam intact or be separated obliquely from the tibia, and the astraplus is rotated so that its inner articular surface, carrying with it the inner malleolus, looks upwards and inwards. Lateral dislocations, especially outwards, are frequently compound. The complete out- ward or inward horizontal lateral displacements are exceedingly i are, and can hardly occur without fracture of the malleoli. Symptoms.—In the dislocation outwards tlie foot is markedly everted by the peronei, its outer border looking upwards The shai-p broken edge of the inner malleolus is readily seen and felt at first, but soon becomes obscured by a fluctuating collection of blood. A depres- sion about four inches up the outer side of the leg marks the site the broken fibula. In the l^t*Hrttl dislocation inwards these symptoms