835 FJiAGWRl'JS OF THE PFLVIS. the physical signs present in the hypogastrium and per rectum. The early diagnosis of ruptured bladder is often very diificult; it must always be remembered that blood may come down from an injured kidney, and that very little urine is secreted in the state of shock in which these patients often are. Injury of the rectum is easUy discovered by examination. The symptoms of vascular and nervous complications present nothing special. In the course of treatment mppuo'ation has occasionally occurred in the pelvic tissues even in simple cases ] but it is far commoner in cases rendered compound by communication with the urethra and by incisions for various purposes. The abscesses forming about the fractures burrow in all directions, often lead to necrosis of frag- ments, and on bursting form so many urinary fistulte. A recent patient of mine passed all his urine through an opening situate behind his great trochanter. Treatment.—Transport must be most careful; on a stretcher, if possible, in all cases in which the ring is broken. Nothing can be done in most fractures not breaking the ring. A displaced sacral or coccygeal fragment may be replaced and perhaps kept in position by a tampon round a tube. The patients can generally get about in six to eight weeks. In vertical fractures a wide well-padded band should be buckled closely round the hips after any luxation has been corrected; the lower limbs should be kept at rest between sand-bags. The slipper bed-pan should be used with the least possible disturbance, and care of the back requires much skill. A framework on the bed attached to pulleys for raising the patient may be useful, but these appliances often allow a good deal of movement of the pelvis. A simple case may stand in from two to three months. Rupture of the urethra may be met by drainage, if possible with a rubber catheter ; or by perineal incision, with search for the posterior end and drainage of the bladder through it. Immediate suture of the torn urethra is unlikely to succeed, and the proceeding is lengthy and adds much to the shock. But later, if all goes well, an attempt to resect and suture the divided ends may be made. Extravasation requires free incisions. In ruptured bladder we have the choice between drainage by catheter, or through a perineal cystotomy (Mason) or urethrotomy wound, and suture of the rent. This is most easy to perform on the non-peritoneal surface higli up; it is most difficult in Douglas’s pouch, largely on account of rigidity of the recti. Nevertheless, suture and cleansing of the peritoneum is the most reliable remedy. A rectal wound must be cleaned and ti-eated to prevent cellulitis and extravasation of fueces; the fracture being compound in the worst way, free incisions will improve matters should they be indicated. Fractures of the femur.—These form 6 per cent, of all frac- tures. Tliey occur from all forms of violence, and at all ages; yet it is chiefly the shaft which is broken in the young, the base of the B B 2