1049 TUBERCULOUS SYNOVITIS. tlie joint, but as often make tlieir way outwards through the capsule, and foi’m large peri-articular abscesses. Again, this tuber- culous inflammation of the synovial membrane may so hyperti’ophy the latter as to throw it into folds and fringes, which spread out between the ends of the bones. If the process still advance, the pathogenic matter in tlie fringes may commence to attack the underlying cartilage and lead to its ulceration and destruction, as is well seen in Fig. 433, and to the left-hand side. In this way the whole cartilage may be gradually destroyed until the bones are laid bare ; but in many cases it only shows small pits upon its surface filled with tuberculous granulation matter. _ It is important, however, to remember that synovial disease of this kind does not always involve the surfaces of the joint, but may go on to the production of large extra-articular abscesses without doing so. Again after developing into caseous masses, these tubercles may become quiescent, and the dead tissue dry up into hard material in which the calcareous salts become concreted into chalk-like material. When this change sets in early, the functions of the joint may become restored, but it is rare for the disease to stop at this point when once it has reached the stage of caseation. Most frequently some of the caseous foci break into the joint, and the infective matter contained m them is thus brought into contact with sound tissue, and infects it over a large area. _ These various changes are not accompanied by any special objective and subjective symptoms which enable us to recognise them with certainty. We are driven to study the whole aspect of the case : the time the disease has lasted, the strength and con- stitution of the patient, and the amount of swelling and interference with function, and to cast up the general evidence bearing upon the probable state of the parts within. But it is a common experience that we find as a rule more disease in such a joint than the a<^ore- gate of symptoms would have led us to expect. TreaTment.—The general treatment of tuberculous synovitis is practically the same as that suitable for syphilitic disease of the same structure. Everything which can by local or general means improve the vitality of the tissues should be employed. Thus abundance of digestible food, fresh dry air, good clothing, and moderate exercise are called for, together with the use of tonfcs and the preparations of iodine. {See page 359.) Locally we also apply iodine tincture, or blisters in the earlier stages; and if there is much pain, the part must be thoroughlv immobihpd. In very mild cases it is a question whether gentle exercise IS not of some benefit so long as the part is not strained or rendered painful; but much caution is necessary, and in doubtful cases It IS better completely to fix the joint in the position of greatest ease. In some early cases the use of the actual cautery to the skin over the joint, to cause rapid vesication or an actual sore, is of much t , mercurial inunction, combined with firm strap- pin„, IS followed by improvement, but is not now so much believed