455 OSTJUOMATA. Osteomata, like chondvoniata, are commonly met with m the neighbourhood of epiphysial lines, and in the case of skull bones at mrts where large tracts of hyaline cartilage exist in the fmtal skull. Every growing osteoma has a cap of hyaline caitilage which stands in the same relation to the growth ^ the tumour that an epiphysial line bears to a bone. (See Art. XXX.) 1. Compact osteomata.—These are structurally identical with the compact tissue forming the shaft of a long bone; often it is as dense as the petrosal. Although they may occur on any bone they are more frequent in the frontal sinus (Fig. 101), the external and internal auditory meatuses, and on the mastoid process than elsewhere. They are occa- sionally met with on the angle of the mandible; many supposed osteomata of the maxillse are odontomes. Compact osteomata are usually sessile. 2. Cancellous osteomata. — These resemble in structure the can- cellous tissue of bone, and are soft in comparison with the compact species. When growing from the distal end of the radius or tibia, they are often deeply channelled for the passage of flexor and extensor tendons. Can- cellous osteomata may be sessile or pedunculated: frequently the summit is surmounted by a bursa. Exostoses It is necessary to mention that all irregular bony out- growths are often vaguely classed as exostoses. The conditions which should be classed under this name, and sharply excluded from osteomata, are : — 1, ossification of tendons at their attachments (Fig. 102); 2, the subungual exostosis ; 3, calcified inflammatory exudations. Many macerated preparations of bones preserved as examples of multiple exostoses are from individuals affected with chondromata, some of which had partially ossified. Further, some of the skeletons supposed to be examples of multiple exostoses are really instances of the rare disease—myositis ossificans. (Art. XXXIV., on Injuries AND Diseases op Muscles, Tendons, Fasci.®, and Burs®, Vol. II.) Treatment.—Osteomata, in situations where they do not involve important structures, rarely demand treatment. When they press upon important nerves, obstruct the external auditory meatus, and are clearly the source of inconvenience, deformity, or distress, they should be removed. When growing near large joints, great care must be exercised in removing them. Osteomata of the ivoiy Pig. 102.—Exostosis of tlie Pemur, produced by ossification of the tendon of the adductor magnus. (Museum, Royal College of Surgeons.)