TUMOURS. tfiO 6. Myxomata. Myxomata are tumours composed of a tissue identical with that which surrounds the vessels of the umbilical cord. Tlie genus contains three species :—(1) Nasal and aural polypi j (2) cutaneous myxomata ; (3) neuro-myxomata. Myxomatous tissue is in many instances the result of degenera- tive changes in fibrous, cartilaginous, and sarcomatous tissues. Its microscopical characters may be best studied in a nasal polypus. A nasal myxoma has a capsule of mucous membrane covered with columnar ciliated, cubical, or stratified epithelium; sometimes the three varieties may be demonstrated on one tumour. Immediately beneath the mucous membrane there is a firm layer of fibrous tissue, which gradually becomes continuous with a gelatinous mass composed of cells furnished with long delicate branching processes—spider cells. (See Art. XLII., on Diseases op the Nose and Nasal Cavities, Vol. II.) Cutaneous myxomata may be either pedunculated or sessile. A large sessile myxoma when cut into resembles a mass of pale trembling jelly, from which a viscid fluid of a pale straw colour drains away. Neuro-myxomata will be described with neuromata. 7. Gliomata. Gliomata are tumours composed of the delicate connective tissue known as neuroglia. The genus consists of a single species—glioma. Gliomata only occur in the central nervous system. Tissue very similar to neuroglia forms the sustentacular fi’amework of the retina, and is the seat of sarcomata, which are often termed retinal gliomata. In the brain a glioma occurs as a tumour imperfectly demarcated from the surrounding tissue. It may appear as a translucent swell- ing of the consistence of vitreous humour, or it may be as firm as the tissue of the pons. As a rule, a gUoma is of the same fii-mness as the cerebral cortex. (See Art. XXXVII., on Diseases of the Head, Vol. II.) Structurally, gliomata consist of cells furnished with delicate ramifying processes; the cells, which may contain one or more nuclei, are mixed with fibrous tissue. The proportion of cells to the fibrous tissue varies greatly ; sometimes one set of elements preponderates, sometimes the other. These tumours are often very vascular, the vessels being irregularly dilated and occasionally sacculated. The number of blood-vessels in some specimens is so great that the tumours are described as angeiomata or angeio-sarcomata. As a rule, gliomata are solitary and do not give rise to secondary deposits. In certain situations they rather resemble diffuse over- growths than tumours. Virchow pointed out that Avhen a glioma is situated near the surface of the cortex it will appear like a colossal convolution. Should it grow in the tissue of an optic thalamus, it would cause the thalamus to bulge into the third ventricle as though