8YPHILT8. 430 actually shorter, than normal. Fig. 86 shows well the dwarfing of one finger that has resulted from former osteitis in a child with other lesions of inherited syphilis. Spontaneous fracture must also be mentioned as a rare complicar tion, due to a gumma in the medullary portion which has thinned the bone, or to weakening of the latter from the surface by necrosis, etc. The bones chiefly involved (as a I’ule, symmetrically) are (1) the tibia (by far the most frequent and one of the most easily examined) ; (2) the femur, humerus, radius, and ulna; (3) the clavicle, sternum; and (4) the bones of the skull. Besides isolated nodes on the vault, which are liable to soften and to be followed by limited necrosis, and the destructive inflammation of the nasal bones—i.e. including the vomer, turbinateds, and ethmoid—we have to notice a general sclero- sing osteitis of the vault, which is occasionally due to inherited syphilis, and which, taken with symmetrical thickening of various long bones, may simulate very closely the mysterious disease known as osteitis deformans. As in acquired syphilis, it is the frontal chiefly, to a less extent the parietals, that suffer most of the cranial vault bones. The osteitis is, as a rule, not only very chronic, but the cause of much pain, to be relieved greatly by early resort to iodides and mercury. Sometimes the former are the moi'e useful; at others the combination answers best, and it may be advisable to insist upon rest in bed and an equable temperature, should the case prove obstinate. Mercurial inunction (preferably with the oleate) is often useful, and may be regularly employed over the affected part. If iodides are relied on, the dose may need to be steadily increased up to very considerable amounts (saj, three to six drachms in the day). They should always be given with some spirits of ammonia, and freely diluted. 4. Other symptoms of la,te inherited syphilis*—One of the most interesting and most obscure is the deafness which not infre- quently comes on about the same time as interstitial keratitis. There is reason to believe that it is due to some lesion of the labyrinth or internal ear, and it certainly has nothing to do with any obvious change in the throat or middle ear. It is usually symmetrical, progressive, and very resistant to treatment, though some c^es gradually improve under anti-syphilitic treatment. Fortunately, it is comparatively rare. 5. Diseases of the joints, glands, and nervous system.— A peculiar form of synovitis with considerable efiusion, almost en- tirely confined to the knee-joint, and, as a rule, practically painless, and subsiding after a few weeks or months, is sometimes met with in inherited syphilis. The afiection is not of much importance, as complete recovery is almost invariable. Synovitis may also develop as a result of nodes on the joint ends of the long bones; and occa^- sionally a chronic arthritis, closely resembling strumous disease, and another form in which the cartilages become eroded, may occur m this stage. , , , j . The lymphatic glands of the neck and elsewhere may undergo