SAmOFHYTlO BAGTEBIA. 43 more distinct bacteria, visually in pairs, or in longer straight or spiral filaments. There are also numerous involution forms. This organism is very motile, and possesses long cilia, and is probably the most important of all those organisms at one time included under the term Bact&i’itim termo. On weak gelatine the colonies have usually a yellowish-brown colour, and from the margins of the main mass of the colony branches forming a network shoot off in a characteristic manner, until the whole surface of the gelatine may be covered with zooglcea masses of considerable size. In tube cultures the liquefied gelatine is cloudy along the puncture, although a great part of the culture sinks to the bottom; eventually the whole of the gelatine becomes liquefied. On agar-agar, at the room temperature, a rapidly-growing, moist, greyish-white coating is formed, and a similar moist but much dirtier- looking layer on blood serum. Although spores are never found, the bacillus resists desiccation. It may also grow anaerobically. A dose of -^cc. of a liquefied culture injected into the muscles is rapidly fatal to rabbits and guineapigs, half that quantity giving rise to an extensive local abscess, followed at a late period by the death of the animal, whilst cc. produces no effect. Watson Cheyne, who carried on these experiments, calculated that nine millions of these organisms produced no effect when injected into the muscular tissues of rabbits. Injection into the subcutaneous con- nective tissue—of a dose twice as large as that which proved fatal when injected into a muscle—gave rise to abscess formation, but did not kill the animal; and on recovering, this animal was found to be insusceptible to a similar dose injected into the muscles. Immunity has also been obtained by injecting filtered cultures of this organism, Cheyne points out, however, that if a large but non-lethal dose of the sterilised products of the bacteria be mixed with a small number of living bacteria an unprotected animal will succumb; from this he argues that the poisons devitalise the tissues, and thus enable the small number of bacteria to set up characteristic pathological reactions. This is a point of very great importance as bearing on the necessity of removing the effete matter by the various emunctory cliannels at regular intervals, wherever surgical operations have been per • J-iie Froieus Tnirabilis and Proteus zenkeri must be con- sidered as having a similar action to the Proteus vulgaris 5. Bacillus ffidematis aerobicus.-Klein has obtained from garden earth a bacillus named by him the Bacillus cedeniatis aerobicus. It is about ^ to 2^ in length and 1^, broad ; it some- times forms long filaments. It stains with aniline colours, but is decolorised again by Gram’s iodine solution (page 61). It is coni- pamtively unimportant, but must be mentioned, as when inoculated “ice, the animals die very rapidly, oiten on the first day, suflering from a condition of sub^ cutaneous mdema, the fluid from which is fivtal when injected in quantities of a single drop. mjectea in Bacillus foetidus ozsenae,—Bacillus fcetidus ozmiim is of