943 EXTRACTION OF TEETH. lu some cases it may be necessary to perform Esmarch’s operation on both sides. In cases where excision of the condyles has failed, Esmarch’s operation has subsequently been practised with success. In closure of the mouth from defective development of the mandible, excision of the condyles, and even division of the necks of the condyles has been followed with very satisfactory results. EXTRACTION OF TEETH. Although the treatment of the teeth constitutes a very special branch of the Art of Surgery, it is nevertheless the duty of every medical practitioner not merely to be capable of extracting a tooth with skill, but to understand how to save a damaged tooth. All village surgeons and practitioners in remote stations, surgeons in the army or the navy, and even operating surgeons in large towns, should know how to be able to extract a tooth properly. Teeth require extraction for the following conditions: (1) When they are the cause of an alveolar abscess. (2) When the crowns are so destroyed by caries that they cannot be prepared to hold a stop- ping, or utilised for an artificial crown. (3) It is occasionally necessary to remove a tooth when the dental arch is very crowded and irregular in consequence. (4) Impacted wisdom teeth. (5) When the crown of a tooth has sharp edges and irritates an epithelioma of the tongue or cheek. (6) Canine teeth lodged transversely. (7) All stumps should be promptly extracted. (8) A carious tooth associated with an epulis. (9) In operations for the removal of a portion of the mandible or maxilla. (10) When an abscess or great pain ensues on an immediate root-filling. It is a very pernicious practice to extract teeth simply because they ache. In many instances the pain is due to an exposed pulp. When this is the case, the tooth may often be saved by proper treatment. This consists in destroying the pulp by arsenical paste; it is then extirpated, the pulp cavity and root or root’s canal are then rendered aseptic, and subsequently stopped. When teeth are fractured by blows or falls the pulps should be destroyed—in some cases the pulps may be extracted immediately under gas—and the roots serve as admirable foundations for artificial crowns. The method of extraction.—Two instruments are now used for the extraction of teeth: forceps and the elevator. Forceps are of various patterns, and so adapted to the different kinds of teeth, that they may be grasped and extracted without crushing the crowns. It is the duty of the student to make himself .acquainted with the peculiarity of each tooth, including the number’, shape, and disposition of its roots. He should master the characters of the forceps designed for each tooth, and watch the mode of using them