886 DISEASES OF BONES. Supposing, however, this advantage has not been obtained, a suspicion that there is dead bone will be entertained from the histcvy of the case, from the presence of enlarged bone beneath and from the appearance of one or more sinuses discharging thick pus. The sinuses are button-shaped, with pouting florid granulations. The introduction of a probe will at once conflrm the suspicion if it strike with a clear ringing sound upon the hard non-vascular sequestrum. One or two points have now to be settled—the character of the necrosis, and the time at which its successful removal may be anticipated. If small and superficial—peripheral necrosis—there will be only a small amount of discharge, and not much enlarge- ment of the bone beneath. Moreover, it can be felt and seen quite close to the surface. In the case of a large extent of both surface and thickness, as in total necrosis, there will be a very copious discharge, a large development of new bone, and several sinuses at some distance from one another; and on examination, the probe will pass through new bone for some distance before it strikes upon the sequestrum. Its fitness for removal will depend upon whether the whole area of necrosis has become detached from the living bone by the line of granulation tissue. Some time must elapse before this can be fully accomplished. And this will vary with the age of the patient, the extent of the necrosis, the nature of the disease which produced the necrosis, and the particular bone aflfected. In the very young, when the bone is very vascular, the process is more rapid than in the young adult. The rapidity diminishes with age till the full adult period is reached. In the old, separation is sometimes very slowly accomplished, on account probably of the feeble circulation. Supei’ficial necrosis is more quickly separated than the central or total necrosis. An exception may possibly be made for some cases of total necrosis after acute diflfuse periostitis. If the whole shaft has died from this cause up to the epiphysial line, it will often be very quickly separated from its connections. The periosteum has already been stripped from the bone, and the vascular cartilaginous epiphysis is easily disconnected from the shaft. In necrosis from syphilis, many months, and sometimes years, may elapse before the whole of the dead bone has been separated from the living. As regards particular bones, necrosis in the bones of the upper extremity is always more rapidly loosened than in those of the lower, on account, probably, of their greater vascularity. In the young adult two to three months will be about the average length of time for dead bone to become loose in the lower extremity, whilst in the upper the average would be about six weeks to two months. Some estimate may be made as to its fitness for removal by an examination with the probe. When thoroughly loose, the ].n’obe on striking the sequestrum produces a hollow note. Two probes may also be introduced at some distance from one another, and by alternate p-ressure, a movement of the sequestrum may be effected