TREATMENT. 169 house-surgeons or nurses who had not, perhaps, realised what stringent precautions are required. An extraordinary number of remedies has been vaunted in the immediate treatment of cutaneous erysipelas. Inasmuch as the disease usually runs a short and favourable course, and nearly always ends in recovery, it is obvious that a favourable opinion may easily be formed as to the benefits of particular remedies. It is doubtful whether any internal remedy has any marked effect upon the course of the disease. By some a 30 per cent, solution of perchJpride_o£_iron is painted upon the affected part, and half drachm doses are given internally. Others administer carbonate of ammonTum..witKltihcture or decoction of cinchona. ' “Cutaneous erysipelas, cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas, and cellulitis are all diseases which ma,ke great demands upon the strength. It is tlmrefore necessary, as a rule, to give a generous diet with stimulants, milk, beef-tea, beef or mutton essence, eggs, eggs whipped with wTne or brandy, and so forth. The best stimulant is usually that which is taken best; brandy, port, burgundy, champagne, beer, or porter, are all useful. The bowels ought to be regulated, and anodynes given to induce sleep and relieve restlessness. Locally, the abstraction of blood by leeches or by lancet puncture relieves the pain amd tension. Bleeding should be encouraged with lioFlonien^tions! Nitrate of silver seems to have a decided infiuence in arresting the spread of cutaneous erysipelas. This is best applied by painting the whole area with a solution made by dissolving twenty grains of solid nitrate of silver in an ounce of the spiritus etheris nitratis. At St. Bartholomew’s Hospital the part affected by cutaneous ery- sipeleis is usually covered with an ointment composed of a drachm of prepared chalk and an ounce of lard. This is very soothing, and afibrds great relief to the burning and tingling. Dusting with starch, oxide of zinc, flour, or bismuth is also soothing and agree able. It is often beneficial to cover the inflamed area with cotton- wool. When erysipelas complicates woimds, care should be taken to see that there is a free exit for discharges, and to cover the whole area with a large and warm boracic fomentation. This ought to be re- newed every two or three hours, and is very grateful to the patient. Ichthyol has been greatly advocated by Nussbaum and others for the treatment of cutaneous erysipelas. After a fair trial I have come to the conclusion that the pain which it causes exceeds any benefit which may ensue. In cellulo-cutaneous erysipelas and cellulitis, to prevent gangrene and to give exit to discharges, a series of incisions, each about two inches long, should be made into the inflamed and tense skin and cellular tissues. These incisions should be made where the skin is most affected, and in the long axis of the limb and parallel to vessels and nerves which are to be avoided. Incisions into the scalp should