DISLOCATIONS OF THE ELBOW. 983 head of the pronated radius rolls in the coi’onoid fossa in front of the humerus. The lateral ligaments are much lacerated, buttlie orbicular ligament retains the connection between the radius and ulna, and the posterior ligament may remain unhurt. The ulnar nerve may be damaged in the inward displacement, and these accidents may be complicated with fracture, or separation of the epicondyle, a matter of importance to remember and ascertain. Dislocation backwards and outwards or inwards were also formerly described. Here tlie backward displacement of the olecranon is a more important s3Tnptom than the lateral deviation. Symptoms.—In the dislocation outwards the fore-arm is flexed and pronated, and movements are restricted and painful. The limb ap- pears widened opposite the joint. On the outer side will be felt the prominent displaced head of the radius. Internal to this is another projection; this is the displaced olecranon. Proceeding still more internally, we plainly feel the projecting Fig. 393.—Partial Dislocation of the Elbow outwards. (After Tillmann.) internal condyle, and a gap beneath it, owing to the ulna having been thrown outwards. In the dislocation inwards the reverse occurs ; the foi’e-arm is still flexed and held midway between pronation and supination, with the appearance of widening at the flexure of the joint; but there is a marked projection internally obscuring the internal condyle, and this, by manipulation, may be ascertained to be the upper end of the ulna. The external condyle is markedly prominent, and there is a gap below it, owing to the radius having been thrown inwards. iVIetliodofexaiiiiniiigfrorsiDpposeddisloca^tiou ofclKtow. —The patient should have both upper limbs stripped, and should face the surgeon, placing the dorsum of his hands on the surgeon’s shoulders. The surgeon, having carefully inspected the injured joint, places his thumb and little finger on the condyles and his middle finger on the olecranon of both elbow joints of the patient. Comparative alterations will be thus readily detected. He will decide— (1) If the condyles move upon each other. (2) If they have their normal relation to the olecranon by measurement. ^