TREATMENT OF ANEURYSM. 619 ■ vessel was pervious between the ligature and the cured aneurysm in fourteen. In some cases the length of artery obliterated at the seat of li"ature is very small, and this is well illustrated by the specimen in George’s Hospital Museum, from which Fig. 180 is taken. (2) Failure to cure the aneurysm by poximal ligature may be due to two or three causes. Very rarely it is found that the sac remains filled out Avith fluid blood, no coagulation occurring, and it may even enlarge Avithout pulsation from the blood regurgitating into the artery. More often the clotting that occurs is limited to the aneurysm, and does not extend into the artery; or, if it does, the arterial thrombus is disintegrated, and disappears leaving the vessel patent. Whenever this is so, the aneurysm is not cured even if it become solid and undergo considerable shrinkage; enlargement may at any time occur. Thus Mr. Scott, of Bath, has recently recorded the case of a man Avhose femoral artery was tied for a popliteal aneurysm in 1883, the tumour became much smaller, and Avas said not to pulsate. Eight years later it began to increase in size, and in 1894 a large aneurysm was excised fi'om the ham, and the popliteal artery Avas found to be patent. Here it is clear that the first operation failed to cure the case, because the artery Avas not occluded, and the shrunken aneurysm afterwards yielded to the pressure of the blood. This “ recurrent pulsation,” as it is called, or failure in the cure of the aneurysm, may depend upon some special relation of the mouth of the sac to the artery; but its more probable and better known cause is a too forcible stream through the artery. This may result in some cases from failure of the ligature to occlude the artery, and this may arise either from the first knot in the thread slipping before the second is tied, or from premature softening and absorption of an animal ligature allowing the artery to ojjen out, or from the vascularisation of the scar in the artery being so free as to open up the vessel again. All these may be included under the head of failure of the ligature to occlude permanently the tied artery. Another equally important cause is too great freedom of the anas- tomotic circulation, so that the blood is carried in a rapid and forcible stream into the artery below the ligature. Hence any circumstance Avhich leads to a previous enlaigement of the collaterals, such as long- continued trials of compression, diminishes pro tanto the prospect of cure by the Hunterian ligature. That this is the explanation of most cases (at any rate) of “ recurrent pulsation ” is shown by the readi- ness Avith which these cases are cured by compression or by religa- ture of the artery lower down. Recurrent pulsation is more fre- quent Avith the modern aseptic absorbable ligatures than Avith others : this is in part due, no doubt, to the failure to occlude the artery that may attend their use; possibly also the smaller extent of the clot which forms on the distal side of such a ligature than of a septic non-absorbable one has something to do with this result. As Avith compression, so with ligature ; the more delayed the cure of the aneurysm, the less likely is it to be brought about at all. As a u * 2