Ills t)I8EAS]^S OF JOIN'l'S. tissue by knife, gouge, and scissors, with free Hiishing-out of tlio cavity with warm water as described in reference to tlie liip and knee (page 1091). These incisions can then be closed witliout drainage, and the foot put up at a right angle in plaster-of-Paiis or sucli a splint as that figured in Fig. 459. In children, where the astragalus, as a whole, is very prone to be affected by tuberculous osteo-myelitis in addition to the disease actually present in the ankle joint, I have frequently found it necessary and exceedingly advantageous to remove the whole bone. This is best done through an incision running along the outer border of the common extensor tendons. Through this the astragalus can be extracted in whole or in pieces. The cavity can then be cut and scraped clean, and the ends of the tibia and fibula be gouged away until sound bone is reached. The surfaces of the os calcis and scaphoid must be similarly treated until all diseased tissue is eradi- cated. Then the usual flushing is carried out until the whole field of operation is cleared of tuberculous debris, and a sponge is thrust into the cavity. The stitches for the closure of the wound are then inserted, but before they are knotted the sponge is removed and the cavity is filled with iodoform emulsion. Any excess of this is finally squeezed out and the stitches are tied, a voluminous salicylic wool dressing being applied over all. In some cases it may be necessary in order to reach all aspects of the disease to make more than one incision into the cavity, and these must be placed with due regard to vessels and nerves. •The results after such informal excisions and removal of the astragalus are excellent in many cases, and fully as good as any claimed for the more classical excisions. Indeed, a foot which has completely lost its astragalus, appears to be but very little the worse for its removal. Amputation for tuberculous anhle.—The question of the re- moval of the foot for tuberculous disease of the ankle is usually determined by the history of the patient’s general health in the lirst place, and by the local condition in the second. Many cases of very advanced disorganisation are curable by careful general and local treatment in the direction of removing the tuberculous material by more or less perfect excision, provided the general vitality of the patient is fairly good. But in view of the possibility of general infection of the system from the local foci in the ankle, if the patient become debilitated by pain, want of outdoor exercise, and prolonged suppuration, the surgeon should be on his guard against pushing the attempt at preserving the foot too far, and thereby risking the patient’s general well-being from the spread of the disease to in- ternal organs. No hard-and-fast rule can be laid down to meet these cases, but it may be said generally that in young children conserva- tism may be persisted in longer than in young adults, and that among the latter, where the disease is stubborn and extending in spite of careful treatment, and where the general health is distinctly running down and loss of time is of great importance, amputation above the