49 AGTINOMYGES. Wlien oTownintlie depth of gelatine or agar-agar, gas may be formed in considerable quantities. The cultures have then a peculiar acid penetrating odour. , , , , . i These organisms develop best at the body temperature, and the disease in cattle is therefore usually met with^ in summer, when the temperature is high. Spores are never found in the living host, but only at the end of ten to forty-eight hours after death. ^ This disease, though occurring amongst cattle specially, may give rise to a slight local reaction in the horse. ■ ■ c The small experimental animals are not readily infected, but by the addition of a 20 per cent, solution of lactic acid to the mocu- lating fluid, animals which ordinarily exhibit little susceptibility to the disease succumb comparatively readily, and, as in the case of tetanus bacillus, by the addition of sterilised or non-sterilised cultures of the Bacillus prodigiosus or of Proteus vulgaris, the disease may be induced even in rabbits and mice. The guineapig is easily affected, and presents the same lesions as ai-e found in cattle. The organisms here are found principally in the dark- coloured serum at and around the seat of inoculation, though cultures can usually be made from blood taken from the heart immediately after death, in which they multiply with great rapidity. This organism is readily attenuated by heat, and Arloing and Kitt have used powdered dried muscles from affected cases—these muscles having been dried at from 32° to 35° C.—as vaccine material. This powdei-, according to Kitt’s method, is exposed to a temperature of 85° to 90° C. for six hours for the second vaccine, and the first vaccine is made by exposing for the same period to a temperature of 100° to 104° C., care being taken to prevent any moisture from gaming access to the powder. Inoculation in succession with these two vaccines sets up a local reaction, the animal recovers, and may then be safely in- jected witli the most virulent material. Other methods of obtaining the same end have been used, but none are more convenient or more efficaeious than the above. Actinomycosis.—-Tlie actinomyces or ray fungus (Pigs. 55 and 56) is found in the pus obtained from certain forms of abscesses of the lungs, the liver or other organs, and bones, especially those of the spinal column. The most commonly described form is found, espe- cially in cattle, in the centre of firm fibrous nodules, this centre being usually softened or reticulated, the meshes surrounding softened caseous points which, on examination under the microscope, are found to be made up of a mass of cells in which is embedded a yellow or brownish point, composed of wedge-shaped rays, the bases of whicli arc somewhat rounded, the whole mass having a peculiar mul- berry appearance when seen in profile, and a conventional star- like appearance when seen in section. This ray-like fungus, however, is stated to be merely an involution form found in older tumours, the active fungus appearing in the form of cocci, arranged in chains, or leptothri.x threads which interlace freely so as to form a kind of felted network in the centre of the colony.