245 treatment of gunshot wounds. Vmt after 1 200 metres fractures become more comminuted. *ort bon« ta e.tensively-iissured facta are caused, md the bone fragments are less displaced. Splinters aio smaller and the joint lesions less comminuted. Simple perforations a“o ire more numerous. On the flat bones of the cranium simple <n-ooving of the bone is more frequent, and the edges of the fracture are cleaner. The cutaneous and muscular wounds and arterial peifora- tions are narrower and cleaner cut. With regard to the relation between the bone and periosteum, it has oeen found that at a lon^ range injuries of the compact bone were more extensive, compared with those at a shorter distance, but the splinters remain attachec to the periosteum; whereas at the shorter range the periosteal attachment was destroyed, and the fragment displaced. Lastly, foreign bodies —as pieces of clothmg —have been found moie frequently to lodge than with the older bullets. As to actual experience on human bodies we can learn from the results found in the Chilian War, the Bombay riots of 18^, and from certain accidental cases. In the Chilian War wounds healing without suppuration (in the majority of cases within eight to ten days) were produced. Where, however, the diaphysis of a bone was struck much splintering was caused, and the healing process was slower. In only one case did the missile cause a simple hole through the diaphysis. In one case explosive efltects were observed. As a rule, there was no lodgment of the ball. The number of dead on the field was four times greater than that of the wounded, pointing to the large number of clean-cut wounds of vessels. Up to a distance of 400 yards the bones were shattered without exception (Fig. 45). At greater distances there were clean perforations and oblique frac- tures, whilst the fractures of the long bones were of larger size than usual. Again, in a case in the Bombay riots, the bones of the leg were found shattered from knee to ankle, necessitating amputation. Complications of gunshot wounds.—These, such as gan- grene, pyaemia, septicaemia, erysipelas, and tetanus, are elsewhere described. Course of gunshot wounds.—Following impact by the old round bullet, and to a less extent by the Martini and Snider, the usual course of contused and lacerated wounds shows itself, but not invariably. Thus I have seen a subcutaneous wound of about eight inches long caused by a Snider bullet heal without a drop of pus. Wounds inflicted by the magazine bullet are more of the nature of subcutaneous lesions, and therefore more favourable to healing. Treatment.—Pain and shock will first demand treatment (in the absence of more pressing symptoms such as hfemorrhage). For the pain a subcutaneous injection of morphia should be given. The shock should be combated by the recumbent position and hot bottles to the lower extremities, etc. If the patient can swallow, he should be given beef-tea, wine, or coffee; or, in severe cases, a hypodermic injec- tion of ten minims of ether over the heart. In the local variety of shock