1076 DISEASES OF JOINTS. this displacement are the following :—In the first place, we must remember that the synovial membrane is now inflamed, swollen, and tender, and that hyper-secretion is taking place. In the fully extended position of the limb the parts of the capsule and ligaments most on the stretch are those on the anterior aspect of the limb. In the inflamed condition, these parts of the capsular structures are most in need of relaxation. As a consequence, the patient involuntarily relaxes the front of the capsule by flexion, in order to relieve the pain. As the Y-liga- ment is in close relation to the anterior part of the joint, it also requires to be relaxed in all its parts, as a whole, by flexion, its inner arm by eversion, and its outer by abduction. The posterior part of the capsule being thin and loose, yields readily to these movements, until the ten- sion is distributed evenly all over the capsular struc- tures, when further dis- placement is unnecessary. In short, the patient places the limb involuntarily in the position of the greatest ease for himself, and thus it is fixed by the muscles, so that no rubbing of the surfaces may increase the sufi’ering. {See Fig. 443.) That this position of Fig. 439.—Position of Hip Joint when forcibly dis- the limb is assumed in tended with Water. order to reduce the stltim upon inflamed parts, and not, as was formerly thought, as the result of reflex irritation of muscles, is shown to be almost certain by experiments on the dead body. Figs. 439 and 440 are from photographs of the body ot a child with healthy hip joints. Into one of the latter (right) I in- jected water with a screw-piston through a hole bored in the nubic bone. As the water was forced into the .loint the ting rose steadily into tlie position of flexion, abduction, and eversion (Fi'^ 439), and when the water was allowed to flow out again th limb returned to its normal position. In this case, of couree, e distending force was felt on all aspects of the joint alike, but tlie