1001 DISLOCATIONS OF THE HIP. Treatment.—A sciatic dislocation is to bo treated in the same manner as a dorsa-l displacement. Lifting the head of the bone with abduction and external rotation is very useful. Too forcible abduc- tion will land tlie head of the bone in the thyroid foramen. Backward dislocations complicated by fracture.—In extreme cases of tliis nature the pelvis may be splintered into fragments. The most interesting complication is direct dorsal dislocation with fracture of the rim of the acetabulum, or, as related by Bir- kett, the head of the femur may be frac- tured as well, a portion remaining in the acetabulum. This accident may be sus- pected by the detection of crepitus, and a tendency to reproduction of the dislocation, which persistently occurs unless a weight be affixed to the foot and leg. Fracture of the shaft of the femur with dislocation is very rare. If the case be seen early, under deep ansesthesia, manipulation of the upper part of the shaft, with pressure on the displaced head, may perhaps bring about reduction. I see no reason why the method of McBurney, as advised in similar in- juries of the shoulder, should not here be applicable. Extension of the thigh is, of course, _ useless; and if the shaft of the femur is allowed to unite firmly, it will probably be then too late to reduce the dislocation. hspecial difficulties in diagnosis of backward dislocations.—Traumatic back- ward dislocations of the hip have to be diagnosed from (1) impacted inverted frac- ture; (2) separation of the upper femoral epiphysis; (3)_ old hip disease; (4) rheii- matoid arthritis with deformity; (5) con- genital displacement. In impacted inverted fracture, examined under anjesthesia, there is free movement. The femoral vessels have not receded into a hollow. The ilio-tibial band is markedly slackened in fractures of the neck of the femur. Crepitus from some giving way of tlie impaction will probably occur durincr manipulation, and the limb will become everted. Should the great rochanter be fractured and drawn away, it may be mistaken for detected buttock; but crepitus can usually be the upper epiphysis may be suspected in a person nder the age of eighteen years, and the younger the patient the G G Fig. 408.—Sciatic Dislocation of the Hill.