LVFUS. 715 certainly do nofc commence in the glands, but may start in any part of the skin surface. Treatment consists in snipping them off with scissors, or in making an incision through them and squeezing out the whole molluscum body, which always presents a well-defined capsule. Lupus.—This disease is to be regarded as a form of tuberculosis of the skin, extremely slow in its course and difficult to cure. It is divided into lupiis vulgaris and lupus erythematosus, the former being much the more common. In both there is an infiltration of the corium with granulation tissue (masses of small cells, which may degenerate and lead to ulceration or organise into fibrous tissue). In both the disease tends to persist indefinitely, and to spread at its edge; in both a certain amount of evidence can generally be obtained proving their relationship to tubercular affections {e.g. history of phthisis in near relatives, occasionally the development of “ strumous ” glands or joints in the patients). In both, the face is the region of the body most often attacked. Finally, cases are sometimes met with which seem to combine the characters peculiar to common lupus and to lupus erythematosus. Features of tlie two varieties.—The following are the chief distinguishing features :—1. Lupus vulgaris usually commences in childhood or early adult life, the erythematous form generally after thirty years. Note.—Exceptions to both these rules are not infrequent. 2. Lupus vulgaris causes much more infiltration of the skin, and tends to ulcerate far more commonly than lupus erythematosus. The former may destroy or lead to the atrophy of deeper structures, such as the cartilages of the nose, the ears, the bones of the fingers. 3. In lupus vulgaris, beyond a tendency to the formation of “satellite ” patches around a primary one, there is nothing special to be said about the groupmg of the infiltration-nodules. In lupus erythematosus there is a vei’y marked tendency to symmetry, and in particular the nose, both cheeks, and the hollows of the external ears are often invaded to precisely the same extent on both sides. The “ bat’s-wing ” form of lupus erythematosus is very characteristic the nose representing the body, and the patches on the cheek the two wings. The forehead towards the hairy scalp and the latter itself are also frequently involved, the backs of the hands less commonly. Ihe disease is rarely seen except in the situations just mentioned, whereas common lupus may occur on any part, e.g. the feet, external genitals, arms, etc. . the point of view of the microscopist, the cell-infiltra- lon of common lupus is veiy prone to degeneration, is often accom- panied by gianhcells; and by careful search tubercle bacfili (or micro-organisms indistinguishable from them) can be found in sma 1 numbers. The latter have rarely, if ever, been discovered in ypical lupus erythematosus, in wliich, moreover, the infiltration is especially arranged around the sebaceous glands and the small vessels 0 le skin. Dilated tufts of the latter, often suggesting to the eye