ULOEEATION 124 for excision, followed, if required, by skin grafting wherever it can be carried out. The tx'eatment of syphilitic ulcers will be fully discussed else- where, and need not occupy us now. III. ULCERATING TUMOURS. These belong almost entirely to the class of malignant tumours. Ulceration only occurs in connection with simple tumours as the result of pressure, there being no inherent tendency whatever to destruction of the parts around. In the case of malignant tumours, however, especially in the carci- nomata, the disease tends to invade the surrounding parts, converting them into cancerous material, and so, when it reaches the surface of the skin, destroying it, and leading to the formation of an ulcer. The ulcerations, which result from the growth of sarcomata beneath the skin, are due mainly to pressure. Thus, the character of a sarcomatous ulcer originating in this way is that of a fungat- ing tumour protruding through a hole in the skin, the sides of which are inflamed but do not present the characteristic clinical appearances of sarcomatous disease. Caucerous ulcers, on the other hand, present an ulceration, which is generally below the level of the skin, the base of which is hard, or warty in the case of epitheliomata, and the edges of which are also hard, elevated, and sometimes warty. Epithelioma is of interest in connection with ulcers, because it is not uncommon for a simple ulcer which has lasted many years to become the seat of the development of an epithelioma, which may either assume the ordinary rapidly-growing tuberous form, or may progress more slowly, and be of the flat variety. (Nee Art. XXII.) It is not at all uncommon for this variety of epithelioma to attack an old-standing lupus; and when it does so, the disease progresses with much greater rapidity. Indeed, it is not impro- bable that many of the cases desci'ibed as lupus vorax are really cases of epithelioma grafted on a lupus. Rodent ulcer.—The only malignant ulcer to which we need refer in this place is that known as rodent ulcer, because for a long time rodent ulcer was not i-ecognised as a malignant disease, but was included among the peculiar forms of inflammatory ulcerations. We now know that rodent ulcer is simply a form of superficial epithelioma, and belongs to what is spoken of in Germany as the flat variety of that disease. It commences, in the first instance, quite insidiously and very often on some pre-existing Ipion, such as a wart or a mole. By-and-by an ulcer is formed which has a red base, depressed below the surface of the skin withoxit any granula- tions on it, and somewhat indurated; the edge of the ulcer is also hard, sharply-cut, and may in some cases be prominent, or even warty, resembling the more rapid forms of epithelioma. ^ The margin of induration compared with that met with in the epitheliomatous ulcer is comparatively slight (Fig. 22).