ANESTHETICS. 286 (1) The surffical procedure must be regarded as one of the most rrequent causes of circulatory depression during anaesthesia When Ineraorrhage is profuse or protracted, when the patient has been ying exposed for a long while upon the operating-table, or when operations are being performed in the neighbourhood of the vamis or solar plexus, all grades of surgical shock may be recoraised however carefully and skilfully the anesthetic may be given! Symptoms attributable to these causes usually come on more or less gradually, though they may (as in the case of vagal irritation) be so sudden as to be indistinguishable from those attending the gravest forms of syncope due to an excessive dose of chloroform. Generally speaking, the pulse becomes weaker and quicker, the face pale, the eyelids more and more separated, the extremities cold, and the pupils dilated. As a rule, respiration is but slightly affected. In minor cases of surgical shock the anaesthetic should be sparingly given, the head kept low, the body warm, free respiration encouraged, and an enema of hot brandy and water administered. Should the patient be able to swallow, the mouth may be kept moist and the lips rubbed with the corner of a towel soaked in brandy and water. In cases presenting more or less sudden symptoms under chloroform, it is best immediately to lower the head, raise the legs, and, if necessary, perform artificial respiration. Cloths wrung out in very hot water applied to the cardiac area will sometimes act beneficially in pro- moting circulation. Strychnine and digitalis may be given with advantage in cases which are not attended by too urgent symptoms (iqij of the liq. strychninse hydrochlor. and iqv of the^tinct. digitalis, hypodermically). ^ The hypodermic injection of ether is not hkely to be of any service if that anaesthetic is already present in the circula- tion j but in surgical shock which has arisen under chloroform, ether will produce improvement in the pulse. The intravenous injection of saline solution (Jj of common salt to Oj of water) has also proved successful in some cases. (2) The term asphyxial syncope may be applied to circulatory failure following arrested breathing. In these cases the cyanosis produced by the impaired or suspended respiration gives place, with various degrees of rapidity, to pallor and cardiac failure. Errors have frequently been committed in regarding the circulatory de- pression as the primary factor, the observer having overlooked the initial respiratory symptoms. Other things being equal, feeble patients are more liable than others to succumb to asphyxial syncope j but the most healthy and vigorous subjects are by no means free from this liability, more particularly when chloroform is employed. This is owing to their being prone to muscular rigidity and suspended breathing during the so-called “ struggKng ” stage of the administra- tion. The circulation at the time when the muscular spasm occurs contains a considerable quantity of chloroform; absorption from the pulmonary passages continues to take place, although respiration is in abeyance; the right heart becomes more and more engorged from the asphyxial condition; all the cardiac cavities dilate; the blood