858 INJURIES OF BONES. rent may extend into the fascia lata and the aponeuroses of the vasti when the force is great and continues acting after the bone has yielded, and whilst the knee is bending; the gap between the fragments varies accordingly from a narrow cleft to a gap of some inches, and union is almost always by a shorter or longer, thicker or thinner fibrous bond (Fig. 307). A patella may be broken twice and even thrice ; usually one of the fragments breaks, not the fibrous bond, though this does happen and the skin has torn with it. 8ynii>toiits.—A loud snap is often heard as the bone gives. Rising from the ground after the fall is a matter of difficulty. A groove indicating the gap between the fragments is often seen. But the joint quickly swells, as a rule, and the outline of the synovial membrane becomes clear; bloody fluid oozes through the fracture and forms a prominent rounded swelling in front of the patella; fluctua- tion between the intra- and extra-articular collections may be ob- tained ; through this, and especially towards the margin, a transverse or otherwise directed fissure can be felt, and the fragments can gene- rally be seized, approximated and rubbed together. Any more or less transverse gap is widened by bending the knee or by endeav- ouring to straighten it; as a rule there is no power of extension, but with starred and longitudinal fractures, and even with narrow transverse ones, accompanied by little tearing of fascioe, the patient may be able to lift his heel from the bed. Standing is possible, for the knee extends beyond the right line and locks; but walking straight forwai’ds is generally impossible—the patient finds that he must%ither go backwards dragging the extended leg after him, or go forwards, everting the damaged limb completely and brmging it forward with his adductors. On removing the fluid covering it, if necessary, the kind of fracture and the size and separation of the fragments are noted. In the transverse variety, the torn surface of both fragments is more or less everted, especially that of the lower. A o’ood deal of synovial irritation results, but not sufficient to excite even warmth of the skin. More or less of the blood clots —sometimes early, sometimes late. The fluid part is diluted by effusion from the synovial membrane, and as tension increases the fragments are forced apart. The fluid is then absorbed; the clot may become organised, and form adhesions. Clot adheres close y to the fractured surfaces, filling every chink, and becomes replaced by callus The apparent causes of fibrous union in transverse fracture are • the separation of the fragments is usually considerable owing to muscular action, effusion and tilting on the condyles ; the fibrous tissue on the surface of the patella is generally torn up in a flap connected with one or other fragment, and this flap falls into the cap, thickens and adheres quickly to the raw surface; lastly, immo- bility cannot be secured. But there must be something else, for transverse gaps are often very and longitudinal fractures is often feeble (Figs. 30o ^ even after wiring, if narrow gaps occur from imperfect fitting, they may fail to fill with bone.