159 SYMPTOMS. the cutis vera. Cases in wliich the hard edge is very marked have been called by the name erysipelas marginatum. The margin of erysipelas is not abrupt where the inflammation is receding. When the swelling increases, and is considerable, the skin becomes smooth, tense, and shining. Its surface is covered with vesicles, or studded with bullse full of yellow serum. At first the serum is clear and transparent, but afterwards it becomes turbid. The bull® are occasionally absent, but the vesicles are said to be invariably present, although a lens may be required to see them. As erysipelas Lbsides the vesicles and bullse burst, dry up, and form slight crusts. In erysipelas the lymphatic glands which drain the affected area ai'e always swollen, tender, and inflamed. The deep lymphatics may oftentimes be felt as hard and tender cords running towards the glands, and the superficial lymphatics may be marked by the redness of lymphangitis. When the morbid histology of erysipelas is desci-ibed, it will be seen that the lymph spaces and lymphatics of the skin are especially involved in the inflammation; hence the disease has been called an infective capillary lymphangitis. Some- times the inflammation of the lymphatic glands seems to precede the outburst of cutaneous erysipelas. . When erysipelas attacks a wound repair ceases, and its surface becomes dry and glazed. It secretes a little sanious fluid and is devoid of pus or granulations. Granulations which had formed become anaemic and cease to grow, and may disappear. Haemorrhages sometimes occur, and a layer of ashen lymph, sometimes called that of wound diphtheria, may form. In simple cutaneous erysipelas the skin occasionally sloughs, or portions become gangrenous. These complications are, however, commonest in phlegmonous erysipelas. Now and then erysipelas is attended with a curious bronzing of the skin. One of the most characteristic local subjective symptoms of ery- sipelas is the intense irritation, smarting, or burning pain which accompanies it. To this last may be owing its popular name of “ St. Anthony’s fire.” Sometimes the pain is of the severest neuralgic type, and I have had under my care a case in which the most violent pain and lymphadenitis preceded by forty-eight hours an outburst of cutaneous erysipelas. The inflamed parts are stiff and incapable of full flexion or extension. In erysipelas of the mucous membranes the constitutional and most of the local symptoms are the same as when the skin is attacked. The mouth, nose, pharynx, larynx, the female genital tract, and the rectum are its favourite seat. The involved mem- brane becomes intensely red, swollen, and superficially ulcerated. BuIIeb form, but soon break, leaving supei'ficial ulcers. The special functions of the part affected are interfered with ; for instance, eiy- sipelas of the larynx causes dsypnoea and aphonia. QEdema of the glottis is one of the gravest dangers in erysipelas of the air-passages.