DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 558 in the causation of aneurysm. In the smaller arteries the thickening of the intima partially occludes the lumen of the vessel, and in some situations, as in the coronary arteries of the heart, the cerebral arteries, and the arteries of the logs, this may lead to serious conse- quences from impairment of the blood supply. It is stated that the loss of power in the muscular coat of atheromatous arteries interferes with the due regulation of the local supply of blood, and is one cause of cerebral symptoms in old people with rigid arteries. Exposed calcareous plates may excite thrombosis, and detached portions, as we have seen, may form emboli; either of these con- ditions may lead to gangrene. Arteries thus diseased are more liable to rupture under the influence of injury than are supple, healthy vessels; and when the affection is far advanced it interferes with the repair of injured vessels, and with the distension of arteries which occurs in the establishment of anastomotic circulation. When, from any cause, the force of the arterial circulation is markedly diminished—e.g. loss of blood, ligature of a main artery—this disease is very liable to excite coagulation of the feeble stream of blood. Atheroma, therefore, is an exceedingly important condition, and in many ways, directly and indirectly, leads to grave results. Sig'ns.—Well-marked atheroma can be recognised during life by the elongation and tortuosity of superficial arteries, such as the temporal and brachial, and by the too-marked “ locomotion ” of the vessel with each pulse-wave; the arteries are also less compressible than normal. The effects of advanced atheroma are also to be sometimes seen in coldness, wasting and diminished function of parts, or in special effects, such as giddiness. Treatment.—There is no method known whereby any improve- ment or recovery can be obtained, but when atheroma is recognised, the individual should so regulate his life as to reduce the arterial strain to the minimum, and to sustain the nutrition of his tissues. 5. Syphilitic arteritis.—The disease is best known as it affects the smaller arteries, especially of the brain and other viscera, and in gummata; but it is stated to occur in larger arteries also, and in them to lead to aneurysm. The arteries become thickened, indurated, and narrowed : the lumen may be completely blocked, and the vessel reduced to a fibrous cord. The changes are most constant and most marked in the tunica intima. This becomes enormously thickened. Fine nuclei and cells appear beneath the endothelium, then multiply and enlarge, and at the same time become separated by fine fibre-cells and fibres. As the disease progresses, a tissue like loose granulation tissue is formed, which tends to become more fibrous; new capillaries are developed in it, which commiinicate with the vasa vasorum. By this growth of the inner coat the lumen of the artery is narrowed, generally dis- torted, often converted into a mere slit; and it may be completely obliterated in the case of small arteries, either by extension of the growth of the intima, or by the formation of a thrombus. The tunica media is generally unaffected; occasionally it is involved by