76G INJURIES OF BONES. Acute mania may follow a fracture, as it may any other injury. Wasting and stiffness of a limb are common on abandoning splints, and are easily explicable. Wasting is due to more or less complete rest of the part, and to the constant pressure of restraining apparatus. Stiffness to matting of parts round about the fracture, especially of tendons in their sheaths; to adaptive shortening of muscles, best seen when a foot has been allowed to drop; to adhesions in joints, even when they have not been injured; to permanent displacement of fragments, forming part of joint sur- faces; to the formation of irregular masses of callus; or later, to the development of rheumatoid changes. Rarely, true anchylosis occurs (Figs. 327, 328). (Edema.—As a result of the injury to and thrombosis of vessels, of the prolonged diminution of pressure upon their walls, and of the imperfect nutrition resulting from elevation (when a limb is slung or raised) and fixation, swelling of the limb—especially the lower— is usual on beginning to use it, and often very enduring. Rheumatoid changes are often excited in the joints of those who are predisposed to rheumatism, by fractures near to or involving joints; and in such subjects a limb which has been the seat of a fracture may remain a more or less trustworthy weather- prophet. The rule, however, is that, unless crippling displacement pei’sists, recovery from a fracture is complete, and the limb in a few months is as strong and useful as ever. Course of a compound fracture.—The course of an aseptic compound fracture is just as uneventful as that attributed above to simple fracture; except that the presence of a wound has its incon- veniences and difficulties, it makes no difference to the result, unless, perhaps it delays healing a little. It is far otherwise with a septic compound fracture. The occurrence of suppuration almost certainly induces more fever than is usual in simple fractures ; and retention of pus and spreading suppuration cause prolonged and severe fever. The exhaustion due to this, and to frequent anassthetics and incisions for the evacuation of pus ; the increased difficulty in fixing the part which results from the presence of a wound or wounds, which must be dressed; the more prolonged fixation which is necessai-y, and the consequently greater wasting of parts—for muscle does not benefit by increased blood supply, unless stimulated to contract; the widespread matting of tissues which follows upon the presence of a suppurating wound ; and the fact that the presence of a septic wound exposes the patient to all the infective diseases of wounds—render a suppurating compound fracture an injury which may greatly impair the usefulness of the part, or may cost the patient his limb or his life, or both. It will be understood, of course, that suppuration of a compound fracture does not necessarily bring about the above consequences; the ill-results may be slight or most severe.