926 DISEASES OF TEE JAWS. There are two important signs of pns in the antrum. Of these the most certain is the periodical discharge of pus from the nose, in conjunction with the symptoms already detailed. The second sign will be found on examining the upper bicuspid and molar teeth, and if one of these be found with an exposed pulp, or recently filled with stopping, or dead, or reduced to a stump, it should be very carefully tested and extracted. In many cases thus treated pus will follow the withdrawal of the tooth. Failing this, the surgeon may resort to what is known as trans- illumination of the antrum. A small but powerful electric lamp is introduced into the mouth of the patient (sitting in a dark room, or with his head covered with a dark cloth). The lips are then closed, and the current turned on. If the antrum is clear, a translucent curved band of light immediately appears beneath each lower eyelid. Should the cavity contain pus, this band of illumination is absent. There are many falla- cies in this test. When the translucent bands appear, it is quite certain that no pus is present. Should the antrum remain opaque (and this hap- pens with some healthy antra), the opacity may be due to a tumoui’, or to pus ; and it is quite possible for an antrum to be occupied with fluid (not pus or blood), and yet remain translucent. Transillumination, though hmited in its applica- tion, is nevertheless useful. Another method of determinmg the presence of pus is to cocainise the nasal mucous membrane over a limited area immediately under the anterior pai’t of the inferior turbinal, and then tap the antrum with an exploring syringe. This method is useful in cases of latent empyema of the antrum. Pus sa.cs>—In connection with alveolar and antral abscesses, it is necessary to describe the pus sacs sometimes met with at the roots of carious teeth. It occasionally happens in extracting carious teeth, or stumps, to find at the apex of the root a small fibrous sac which may be scarcely larger than the head of a pin, or it may be as big as a bantam’s egg; the average size and shape of the sac are those of an apple-pip. The cavity of the sac is usually filled with pus or fluid rich in cholesterine. Pus sacs occur in connection with the roots of the mandibular and maxillary teeth; they sometimes attain a large size in the upper jaw when they invade the antrum, and it is probable that some of these cysts are of sufficient size to simulate an abscess or a cyst of that cavity. Pus sacs in connection with the mandible have been observed as large as a pigeon’s egg (Fig. 360). These pus sacs are chronic abscesses, and the sac is formed of fibrous tissue Fig. 360.—Pu3 Sac at Root of a lower Molar. Nat. size. (Trans. Odonto. Soc., 1894.)