620 ANEURYSM. curative agent tlie ligature is most potent immediately after its application when the disturbance of the circulation at the seat of the aneurysm is at its maximum. (3) The accidents that may occur after the Hunterian operation, as distinguished from mere failure to cure the aneurysm, are (a) secondary hcemorrhage at the seat of ligature, (6) gangrene, and (c) inflammation and supjmration around the sac. For the causes and treatment of secondary hsemorrhage from an artery tied in corr- tinuity, the reader is referred to page 541. Garrgrene after ligature of an artery is also dealt with elsewhere. {See page 534.) We may here repeat, however, that the gangrene is generally of the “ moist ” variety, for venous obstruction is a trrarked element in the case. Wherr an aneurysm has been the cause of great verrous obstruction, ligature of the main artery of the part, by greatly diminishing the VIS a tergo, is very liable to lead to moist gangrene, extending as high as the anerrrysm. “Dry” gangrene is the result of failure to esta- blish a sufficient arrastomotic circulation, or of throirrbosis in a diseased artery ; it may be limited to a small area, or involve the whole limb up to the aneurysm. Inflammation aroirnd the sac is a much rarer occurrence it has occurred most ofterr in the groin and axilla, where the tumours are not well supported, and particularly in the case of a large sac or where the aneurysm is becoming diffused. The causes that have been assigned are the handling to which the tumour has been subjected before and after the operation, and the presence of large masses of fibrin in the sac. The sudden solidifica- tion of a large aneurysmal sac in the midst of soft loose tissues is probably an important element in the production of local gangrene from pressure and thus of suppurative inflammation. (4) Symptoms after ligature.—At the moment of tightening the lio-ature the aneurysm shrinks and ceases to pulsa,te.^ _ In the best cases it quickly becomes solid, and then gradually diminishes in size, without any return of pulsation in it. Very often, in eighteen to thirty hours, when the anastomosing vessels are fully dilated, and the limb is warm, a faint pulsation, or a trembling sensation, or a distinct throbbing is detected in the aneurysm ; this may last for hours, or even days, and then pass oflf, or it may increase and become permanent. These differences depend upon the extent and rapidity k the clotting; if the whole aneurysm and adjacent arteiy become at once thrombosed, no pulsation is felt; _ if the sac is fined and the artery patent, pulsation is felt, which varies in uitensity with the force of the heart and the freedom of the anastomotic The limb is at first cold, benumbed, and the arteries belov the ligature are all pulseless; if all goes well, sensation returns, the part becomes warmer, and a pulse can be felt in the a-rtenes, and some of the enlarged collaterals may also be felt. If moist gangien comes on the part remains cold, swells, becomes mottled, vesicles form on it, sensation and the power of motion are entuely lost, and with this the usual constitutional symptoms of moist gangienc