OHRONIG INFLAMMATION. bone. Of course, this operation must be clone antiseptically, other- wise very serious results may follow; but in most of these cases of chronic periostitis and osteitis, it is the most rapid and often the only method of cure. Among other methods of treating chronic inflammation, I may mention pressure and massage; but these plans are more especially applicable to cases where the actual inflammatory process has passed otf, and where we have chiefly to do with residual thickening of the tissues. In employing pressure, care must be taken to regulate it carefully, because if applied too strongly where the inflammation has not perhaps completely subsided, it is very apt to set up the process again. Pressure over an inflamed part may be produced in various ways, the most effectual of which is to wrap the part first in large masses of cotton-wool, or, better, silk-waste, which retains its elas- ticity longer, and then apply the pressure either by means of an elastic bandage or by means of a silicate dressing, which hardens and keeps up constant pressure. By using a large mass of cotton-wool, a considerable amount of pressure can be employed without any material danger of irritation, because the cotton-wool distributes the pressure equally over the whole of the affected area. Perhaps the most favourite method of employing pressure in chronically inflamed joints, is by the use of Scott’s dressing, in which we have not only the effect of pressure, but also the effect of counter-irrita- tion. In applying Scott’s dressing, chamois leather on which is spread the compound ointment of mercury is cut into strips, and these are put on like ordinary strapping, the strips overlapping each other, and the pressure being as equably applied as possible. I have not, however, myself seen any advantage in the use of Scott’s dress- ing over elastic pressure through a mass of cotton-wool. Massage, with the view of getting rid of the products of inflam- mation, is a very valuable method, but I do not think that it is judi- cious to employ it in parts where the inflammation is actually going on. The object of massage is to break up the exudation which has been poured out and to force it into the lymphatic vessels; and with this view, four chief actions are employed, which, to use the French names, are effleurage, friction, petrissage, and tapotement. By effleurage is meant light rubbing of the part. Its object is simply to increase the lymphatic circulation. This is the form of massage which is employed in the first instance in cases of severe sprains, the part being gently pressed or rubbed, the hand always passing in a direction towards the trunk : that is to say, always forcing the effused material into the lymphatics. This form comes into play in all the others as the final action with the view of forcing the products which are broken up by the other methods along the lymphatic vessels. In friction massage, the material is broken up by rajndly rubbin<r the part, more especially in a circular manner, with one hand, while with the other hand the broken-up inflammatory materials are steadily pressed upwards along the lymphatic vessels. By pdtrissa<re w meant kneading of the thickened parts, and this is of especial