119 TREATMENT. Thierscn’s "rafts it has been found that several months elapse befoi-e absolutely °omplete union—more especially union by elastic tissue l,j^s taken place between the skin and the part beneath, and it the patient be allowed to walk too soon, Inemorrhage or oedema is very apt to occur beneath the surface of the graft and lead to its ultimate detachment. From three to six months is generally the time that should be specified as necessary for the patient to he in bed, or at any rate to keep up the leg, after the commencement of the treats ment. Treatment of special forms of the chronic non- infective ulcer.—It may be well to indicate one or two points with regard to the treatment of some of the special forms of ulcer which have been referred to. In the case of the inflamed ulcer, it is necessary to take active measures with the view of combating the inflammation,^ and, per- haps, the most successful is the employment of free incisions into the margins of the ulcer, which act by locally depleting the part and also by permitting the escape of exudation. Where bridges of skin are present, it is of especial value to cut them across. These biidges would very quickly give way if they were left alone, whereas by cutting them across the portions of skin may be saved. As regards local applications in these cases, it is best to employ the boracic fomentations in the manner already described, and, of course, all the other principles of treatment come into play. In the case of the irritable ulcer, it is well to destroy thoroughly the surface of the sore by rubbing it with nitrate of silver, and to attend more especially to the menstrual functions. In dealing with the weah ulcer, the cause which leads to this con- dition should be sought for and removed, more especially adhesion of the ulcer to the bone beneath, or any other cause of difliculty in contraction. In some cases, healing of these ulcers has been obtamed where all other means have failed by resecting a portion of the bone or a joint, and thus permitting contraction of the sore. Thus, in sores about the elbow joint, excision of that joint has led not only to the healing of the sore, but also to a useful arm; and even in the case of ulcers of the leg, satisfactory results have been obtained by removing one or two inches of the tibia and fibula, shortening the leg, and at the same time permitting a sound healing. The varicose ulcer must be treated on the lines already laid down, and as soon as the sore has healed, either of itself or pre- ferably by skin grafting, the cure of the varicose veins themselves by operation must be carried out. {See Art. XXIV;) This opei’a- tion must be delayed till the sore has healed, otherwise, if there be any sepsis, the wounds might become infected, and very serious results might follow. In the case of the callous ulcer, the chief obstacle to healing is the callous condition of the surrounding parts, and the surgeon’s first efforts must be directed to "etting rid of this condition. As a matter of fact, if the part be put at rest, tlie leg elevated and the sore rendered