FRACTURE OF THE PATELLA. 859 Trcalnicnt.—The usual plan is to elevate the leg to 45® with a back splint and to raise the back to 45° on a bed-rest, and thus throw the rectus out of action. Ice is packed round the knee to limit effusion, or pressure is made over a mass of cotton wool round the joint. After twenty-four hours, or sooner, if swelling has ceased, the fluid is drawn off with an aspirator with all cleanliness ; the fragments are then gently pressed together, and an endeavour is made to retain them in position by U-straps, one above the upper, one below the lower fragment, drawn towards one another; by figure-of-8 turns of narrow bandage above and below the fragments taking a hold upon a couple of hooks or screws on the back or upon notches cut in the side of a back-splint; or by Sir A. Cooper’s plan of laying a couple of strips of calico bandage on each side of the patella and of tying closely round the limb over these above and below the fragments a couple of wet strips of the same kind; the two longitudinal strips are then tied on each side of the patella so as to approximate the fragments. The circular constriction of the limb in Cooper’s plan is objectionable, and all straps and bandages used to drag the fragments together must be watched lest they cut the skin. Some apply a plaster bandage over wool before swelling occurs, or after aspiration; the j^atient goes about on crutches after a week. A fixed splint is applied also after four to five weeks of the earlier-mentioned methods of treatment: it is worn for two to three months, then the patient is allowed to walk with a leather knee-cap (Fig. 308), which permits but little flexion, and this is worn for four months more. In different hands the average result of the above methods is about the same—short fibrous union in most cases. The knee is stiff on removal of the apparatus, the limb often cedematous. Motion may return quickly, or slowly, and in either case the bond of union may stretch. No attempt forcibly to hasten the return of movement should be made; it will come in time. If massage were practised fimction would probably be earlier restored. The limb in the majority of cases is a very useful one, and for ordinary walking does well enough; but the thigh is smaller than its fellow and more or less weakness comes out in running, weight- carrying, climbing, descending stairs, etc. The limb is not so reliable as its fellow. Extension of the knee and swinging the leg forwards are the feeble movements. Though, as a rule, feebleness is proportionate to length of bond, it is not always so; some long unions have done excellent work, while some short ones have been useless. Fig. 308.—ALeatlic) Knee-Cap. Malgaigne’s hooks (Fig. 309) have been used freely by some surgeons since antisepsis has enabled them to avoid the inflammatory troubles which occasionally started in the punctures. Aspiration should be performed. Then a tenotomy knife prepares the way down