KNEE JOINT DISEASE. 1111 to the atrophic state of the ends of the bones and their over-use too early. When these pathological facts are overlooked, much disappoint- ment is often experienced. The child comes back after some months with a sound knee, but with flexioi'i often to a high angle, requiring much trouble to correct, even if it can be corrected at all. Syphilitic disease of the knee.—This is a comparatively rare disease, if we except those cases in which gummata form on the sur- faces of the joint. Such are not uncommon, and maybe mistaken for bursal or other tumours. The patient’s history and the chronic nature of the ailment, together with the early discoloration of the skin, will generally leave but little doubt as to the condition. Another form of syphilitic disease, too, is not very uncommon in the knee, namely, gumma of the head of the tibia or end of the femur, which works its way into the joint and seriously damages the latter. But syphilitic synovitis, meaning by this the deposit of granu- loma or gummata in the synovial membrane of the joint, is not common. The cases I have seen have all been congenital in young patients, and have been associated with other evidences of the hereditary disorder, such as pegged teeth, interstitial keratitis, etc. It is, as a rule, an almost painless affection, and only troubles the patient by producing a weakness and stiffness of the joint. Pro- gression is not interfered with. The part is swollen but not tender, and the sense to the finger is as of a doughy mass without any fluid effusion. The diagnosis is not difficult in view of the concomitant evidences of syphilis and the absences of any signs of tubercle, the only disease it is at all likely to be confounded with. The treatment is that of congenital syphilis generally. The limb may be used as much as is reasonable, and requires, therefore, no restraint. Local applications appear to have no influence upon the course of the disease, which, on the whole, is amenable to the general x’emedies. In cases, however, in which we suspect a tuberculous as well as a syphilitic taint we must be careful, and treat the joint rather as a tuberculous one than as a syphilitic one. Chronic osteo-arthritis of the knee.—This is one of the commonest affections of the joints, and one of the most troublesome. Its general pathology has already been descilbed (page 1052), and we need only here allude to its clinical features. It is rarely seen before forty years of age, and seems to afl'ect both sexes in about equal degrees. The symptoms at first are usually ill-defined pain and still- ness, most max’ked iix the morning and going off after e.xex’cise. There is no heat, x-edness, or swelling at first, but after a time the outline of the bones becomes irregular, axxd the joint looks and feels nodulai-. The movements, too, become uneven, and a creaking o)