lOGO DISEASES OF JOINTS. especially when the patient is dropping oft" to sleep, and there is a certain amount of value in the sign. The sufl'ering caused by these sudden involuntary movements of the joint is very great, and the patient is unable to control them. Tliey are not usually pre.sent, however, until the ulceration has progressed to a considerable extent. The explanation of the phenomenon is probably this : cartilage is not a sensitive tissue, but the other structures of the joint are pre-eminently so. When the former is ulcerated over two bones at their point of contact, the muscles governing the joint v/ill involuntarily do all in their power to prevent the inllamed surfaces from rubbing one against the other, and will keep them firmly fixed in one position, simple contact of the diseased surfaces producing no pain. When, however, the muscles become fatigued from time to time, or the patient is dropping off to sleep, the former relax a little. panies p}’8emia it is not a noticeable feature in the destruction of the cartilage. The treatment of diseases of cartilage has nothing special about it apart from that of the disease in which it is only a single factor. The prognosis, however, in any case whei’e the surfaces of a joint have been destroyed by acute or chronic inflammation, is always grave, in the first place often as regards the patient’s life, for this indicates very serious disease, and next as regards the functions of the articulation. Tor once the cartilage is destroyed, it is not replaced by the usual hyaline material which covers the ends of bones, but by fibrous tissue; and as this is equally developed on both surfaces, it forms a bond between the two, which prevents movement. {See Anchylosis, page 1067.) JOINT DISEASE COMMENCING IN THE BONES. In the article on Diseases op Bone (page 873) will be con- sidered the details of the various morbid processes found in the and immediately the surfaces slide one upon the other, causing sudden pain at the moment. This leads to re6ex contraction of the muscles once again, and the spasm produces acute pain in all the structures that are diseased. Fig. 43i.—Destruction of Curtilage by flask- shaped Prolongations of Granulation Tissue from below. (From n Photograph by Prof. Cheyne.) This symptom of starting is, however, not invariably present with all forms of de- struction of cartilage. In osteo-arthritis it is absent, also in gout and in Charcot’s disease; and even in the acute' change which accom-