806 INJURIES OF BONES. (I) The Itlade may be smashed by fissures running through it in all directions (Fig. 240); but limited injuries are more usual, especially a fissure running horizontally below the spine (Fig. 244). A similar fissure may ci’oss the supra spinous fossa, and sometimes a vertical one (Fig. 241) near the vertebral edge has been met with; farther out the dense spine is an obstacle to such fissures. A few cases, but no specimens, in which the spine was thought to have been broken from the blade have been recorded. These fractures are detected and localised—by evidence of injury to the part; by ci’epitus on moving the arm and sca])ula, actively or passively, whilst a hand is kept fiat over the scapula; and by dis- covering mobility between points which can be seized, like the Fig. 240.—A Siimsli of the Scapula dkaching and displacing a Portion of the Spine. (St. George's Museum, Series I. 83.) (Pick.) Fig. 241.—A vertical Fissure, with conuninution in the supra-spinous Fossa. (Ibid. 84.) (Pick.) inferior or su]:.erior angle or the spine. As a rule the fragments are little displaced, but in fractures below the spine the lower fragment is usually drawn forwards and upwards by the teres and latissimus dorsi muscles (Fig. 242). Union with little callus occurs. _ A slmg for the arm is often sufficient treatment; a piece of strapping with three tails, carried one over the shoulder to the front, the other two round the chest, is sometimes used to press and fix the scapula against the thorax. Massage should be practised, and the arm set free as soon as doing so causes neither displacement nor pain. (2) The aci-omion for surgical purposes extends to the extenial border of the spine ; the acromial epiphysis is very variable, but is always smaller than the segment of bone just indicated It oasihes from two or three centres at sixteen, and joins at twenty-five, bene rally broken by direct violence (blows and falls upon the shoulder), it may yield before the humerus driven against it; muscular action has proved a very rare cause. Small fragments may be broken from the tip and outer edge with little deformity; less often the cleft lies