281 CEOIOE OF ANjES THE TICS. if possible, be chosen. Ether may often be satisfactorily given althoimh apparently contra-indicated. For general application method (Method 4) is the best; but if the anaesthetist is desirous of sparing the patient the initial he may either give nitrous oxide (Method 7) or the A. C. E. mixture (Method 11) as a preliminary amesthetic. 2. Tlie choice of aiiiESthefics and inethofls for special natients and cases, the operation being; of swell a nature that nitrons oxide alone is inadmissible. Age, tempera- ment, general physique, etc.—Eor infants the A. C. E. mixture on a Skinner’s mask (not a cone) answers well; but ether may be safelv "iveii on a cone of lint. Chloroform should be administered on liiit! on an open Skinner’s mask, or by means of Junker’s appara- tus with flannel face-piece (Fig. 52). For children of from two to four Years the A.C.E. mixture should be given to partial amesthesia, and then ether from a Clover’s or Ormsby’s inhaler substituted. For senile subjects (over 70 years), the A. C. E. mixture (Method 10) answers best; should any respiratory difficulty appear, chloroform should be substituted : and only small quantities of the anaesthetic will be needed when once anaesthesia has been produced. Extremely neurotic and hysterical women are best anaesthetised by nitrous oxide and ether (Method 7). Stout, flabby, ,breathless subjects, with a feeble circulation and a congested appearance, are best an£esthetised by the A. C. E. mixture, followed by ether (Method 11), or by the A. C. E. mixture alone (Method 10). For anaesthe- tising veiy muscular and vigorous men or alcoholic subjects, ether is preferable to all other anaesthetics; it may be advantageously preceded by nitrous oxide or the mixture (Methods 7 and 11). Affections of the respiratory system.—In advanced chronic bron- chitis, emphysema, or phthisis, the A. C. E. mixture usually gives the best results. A very profound anaesthesia must be avoided. Should any difficulty arise, chloroform may be substituted. When much dyspnoea is present, the last-named anaesthetic should be used from the first. Chloroform is also indicated when cyanosis from laryngeal disease, pressure upon the trachea, abdominal distension, or similar causes, is present. In long-standing pleural disease ether may be successfully given if cai-e be exercised. {See next page : Operations upon the pleui’a or lung.) Affections of the circulatory system.—When anaesthetising patients with advanced affections of the heart, pericardium, or blood-vessels, all unnecessary strain upon the circulation should be avoided. In most cases the A. C. E. mixture cautiously given (Method 10) answers admirably. Should much respiratory difficulty pre-exist, or should it arise under this anaesthetic, chloroform must be used. In very exhausted or collapsed patients, ether given in small quan- tities, and with more air than is customarily allowed, produ-ces the best results. Affections of the central nervous system.—Tf the patient be lethargic or semi-comatose from cerebral disease, very little anaesthetic