34 8UBGI0AL BAGTEBIOLOOY. discharge from the bronchi of patients suffering from epidemic in- fluenza. It grows on the surface of glycerine agar-agar to which haenao- elobin has been added, in the form of minute pellucid colonies winch appear at the end of twenty-four hours (at 38° or 39° 0.). These colonies remain perfectly distinct. They grow best when a small quantity of th?, albuminoid secretion from the lungs or a drop ot blood, is smeared over the surface; lierice it is always much easier to obtain cultures from the original secretions than to obtain secondary cultures, unless haemoglobin be added to the nutrient medium, ihe bacillus is destroyed by drying for twenty hours, or by exposure to a temperature of 60° 0. for five minutes.*' . • j ^-u The two ends of the short bacillus are more deeply stained than the centre ; so that the organism very frequently resembles a coccus. This organism has a special interest for surgeons, from the fact tliat lesions so frequently follow cases of epidemic influenza; but the relation of the bacillus to these disorganisations and sup- purations has not yet been clearly traced. , , , -n Bacillus of tuberculosis (Plate I. Fig. 7).—The tubercle bacillus is found in tubercular glands, abscesses, and sinuses in pints, bones (especially in tubercular caries), and in various skin affections, e g. lupus, and has thus great interest for the surgeon, by whom the application of surgical treatment to cases ^/of his and cavities in the lungs must now be looked upon as part of his work. It is a rod-shaped organism from 2g. to 5p long—i.e. t to ^ the diameter of a red blood corpuscle—and -2/x to -3p broad, wit rounded ends. It is sometimes homogeneous, but usually has a peculiar beaded appearance. It is non-motile. ^ It is grown most readily on glycerine agar-agar, on the suiface of which it forms a luxuriant growth, in the form of folded ™kled greyish or yellowish-white scales. It will also grow the^form of smooth colonies, which appear at the end of a or three weeks. The appearance on consolidated blood serum is that most frequently described. The colonies on this medium are in the form of small, dry scales greyish-white “ floatincr on the surface of the water of condensation , they ^ exceedingly slowly, but the maximum development is reached at the pnd of four weeks They grow best at the body temperatur^ ““LZare to d found in the -apings from cfniicspa esnecially in the soft tissues. It is very dithcult demonstrate thek presence in bones and even in ^ o^h^^ cent, solution of eosin “ J tlds’staining solution are kept at the body 40 gi-ammes. CovOT-glassos npme wasbed with water and mounted in balsam, temperature from three to six iacif/i.—This is a modification of the 1'“'-™ 1 pari, disaolvod i. 10 part, of