BURNS AND SCALDS. 256 highly toxic. It IS probable that they contain a poisonous substance analogous to niuscann. This suggests the advisability of removing burnt parts as soon as possible. In addition to the complications which have been mentioned it occasiona ly happens that as the sloughs separate, hcemorrhaae occurs irom the larger arteries or veins. Occasionally burns are deep enough to penetrate the capsules of joints. This IS followed by suppurative arthritis, which may also be excited by the extension of septic processes, either directly from the wound, or through the circulation, as in pyaemia. The great serous cavities of the chest and abdomen may suffer in the same manner. _ Should shock and acute sepsis be survived, a period of suppura- t%on and exhaustion usually precedes recovery. This is often called the third period, and may be said to begin after the sloirnhs have separated, and about a fortnight after the injury. During riiis period the symptoms are those of hectic fever, and should the suppuration be very prolonged, it ends in amyloid disease of the various organs, especially of the kidneys, liver, and spleen. Also during this stage the wound contracts and cicatrises, and may produce extreme deformity. Sometimes cheloid grows as cicatrisation is completed. Bums which are too extensive to heal leave chronic ulcers. I have occa- sionally seen these become epitheliomatous. Visceral changes.—In a small proportion of cases of burns or scalds small haemorrhages, acute inflammations, or ulcerations are found in the intestinal tract. In ten years, from 1884 to 1893 in- clusive, 138 patients died of burns and scalds in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. During that period I can find but three post-mortem records of pathological changes in the alimentary tract, although Erichsen says that ulcers of the duodenum were found six times out of 22 cases which he examined. In one case—that of a man aged twenty-six years, who was burnt upon the face and arms—there were small submucous hsemorrhages the size of a pin’s head at the pyloric end of the stomach, in the duodenum, and in the caecum. In the case of a child small punctiform haemorrhages were found in the duodenum. The specimen from the third case is in St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital Museum.* It demonstrates acute inflammation and ulceration of the mucous membrane of the duodenum after an extensive scald of the chest. The patient was a child a year old, who lived twenty days after the injury. The ulcers are usually found in the duodenum, and not far from the opening of the bile duct. They may perforate the bowel, and after that event become occluded with inflammatory lymph.f Cases have been recorded in which they have ulcerated into the duodenal vessels and caused fatal hsemorrhage. They may be multiple. Nothing is accurately known about the pathology of these ecchymoses, inflammations, or ulcerations of the * Series XVIII. No. 1969a. t Series XVIII. No. 1969. St. Bartholomew’s Hospital Museum.