TREATMENT OP TUMOURS OF THE JAW. 939 as a result, a large yawning chasm remains. Life is rarely pro- longed, but by the removal of the tumour the patients are spared much pain and discomfort. Diagnosis of tumours of the jaw.—This is a matter which in many cases is simplicity itself, and in others surrounded by the gi'eatest difficulties. In the case of the mandible, the chief point is to decide, if possible, whether the tumour ai’ises in connection with the teeth or the periosteum. Tumours of the teeth in young patients, in the immense majority of cases, are innocent. In those who are over thirty the tumours most likely to occur in connection with teeth sockets are epithelioma and actinomycosis, and these are scarcely likely to be mistaken for innocent affections. Tumours growing from the bone are osteomata or sarcomata, and the hardness and slow increase of an osseous tumour are not likely to be confounded with the rapid gi’owth, pain, and constitutional disturbance caused by a sarcoma. It is in connection with the antrum that the great difficulty is met with. Rapid growth, bulging walls, great pain, and bleeding from the nose are ominous indications of sarcomata; nevertheless many sarcomata cause no pain or even discomfort until the late stages. Slow growth and painlessness may mean some species of odontome. Pain, fever, and purulent discharge may indicate abscess of the antrum or suppuration around a composite odontome. Early signs of antral tumour are obstruction of the nasal fossa, bulging of the hard palate or cheek, or proptosis and epiphora. Enlarged pre-auricular and sub-maxillai’y lymph glands occur with epithelioma. Lastly, nasal, orbital, and naso-jiharyngeal tumours invade the antrum, and very closely simulate primary tumours of that cavity. A sarcoma of the ramus of the mandible is apt to be confounded with a tumour of the parotid gland. The most satisfactory manner of avoiding errors in diagnosis, and consequently grave blundei-s in treatment, is to study carefully on museum preparation the morbid anatomy of tumours of the jaw, especially those illustrating their early stages. Treatment of tumours of the jaw.—One principle only underlies the treatment of tumours of the jaws : that is, removal at the earliest possible moment. Unless the whole of the tumour ^n be completely extirpated, no operation should be undertaken. le m^ode of removal varies with the tumour. Encapsuled tumours —such as odontomes of all species—merely require enucleation. ocalised tumours—such as epulis and osteoma—should be excised wit a piece of the underlying bone. Diffuse tumours—such as sarcomata and epithelioma—demand wide removal. In the case of e mandible, it is often necessary to excise the body of the bone rom near the symphysis to the angle. Occasionally the symphysis IS excised. 1 his is rare. In the case of the maxilla, wide removal or the bone is nearly always demanded. n doubtful tumours of the antrum the cautious surgeon explores E E * 2 or