NON-INFECTIVE ULCER. 115 case, of course, the patient being placed under an ansestlietic), the sore' and the skin around being at the same time disinfected. Cyanide gauze soaked in 1 to 2,000 sublimate solution should be applied daily for two or three days. This no doubt injures the surface of the sore, but a delay of two or three days before the commencement of the healing process is immaterial, while it greatly adds to the certainty of disinfection. Disinfection of a foul sore may also be obtained by the use of strong carbolic oil 1 to 5, lint dipped in this oil being carefully packed into all the recesses of the ulcer and the dressing changed every day ; it will usually be found in the course of a few days that the sepsis has been completely got rid of. Iodoform is much used by some surgeons as a means of disinfecting ulcers, but as I shall mention, when I come to speak of the treatment of wounds, its antiseptic action is very slight, and it is really of very little value for this purpose. {See page 225.) (3) Having got rid of the septic condition of the sore, one must then cease the employment of irritating applications, otherwise one would interfere with the healing process, and among the best methods of treating an ulcer subsequently to its purification is the use of boracic acid in the form of a lotion (saturated solution) and boracic lint which has been wrung out of this same solution, the mechanical irritation of the lint on the sore being prevented by the interposition of a piece of Lister’s protective oiled silk, which is first dipped in 1 to 20 carbolic lotion to disinfect the surface, and afterwards in the boracic lotion to wash away the irritating carbolic acid. This dressing is changed daily for some time. In cases where there is much discharge, it is well to cut a few holes in the protective, so as to allow the discharge to escape into the lint, and in any case the protective should not be larger than the sore itself, and should be well overlapped in all directions by the antiseptic lint outside. Where there is a tendency for the granulations to become cedema- tous, this dressing is unsuitable, because the fluids are confined beneath the protective and the oedematous condition is increased. In such cases the oedematous granulations should be destroyed by the application of nitrate of silver, and then either some dry dressing or some of the antiseptic ointments should be used. The objection to the dry dressing is, in the first place, its mechanical irritation, and in the second place, that when it is removed, one is very apt to peel off the delicate layer of epithelium which has been forming around the edge. Of the antiseptic ointments, perhaps the best is boracic ointment, but it must not be used of the full pharmacopceial strength, because in most cases this does not permit satisfactory healing. As a rule, it is well to dilute it with vaseline or with the ointment basis to about a quarter of its original strength. This ointment should be spread on cambric or thin butter-cloth ; it should not be spread on lint, as is the usual custom, because when the lint is stretched cracks form in the ointment, and thus a complete antiseptic layer is not applied to the surface of the sore. Outside the butter-cloth, boracic