177 TEE ABSCESSES. the channels by which the blood is usually invaded. The smaller veins near the seat of infection are filled with thrombi, which consist of fibrin, and of white and red blood corpuscles (many of which are disinteo-rating), and of bacteria. Their endothelial lining is in a state of prolfferation, and the surrounding tissues contain many leucocytes. When septic phlebitis affects the larger veins, they are distended and of a dark purple colour. Their adventitia may be inflamed and stained with blood pigment, and sometimes abscesses are found alon" their course. Their walls are thickened and their interior is rough, denuded of endothelium and coated with fibrin. The septic or infected thrombus usually begins at the wound, or infecting focus, and extends as far as the nearest valve, or into the nearest great trunk. Here its softened end may float in the blood-stream, so that portions become detached, giving origin to those septic emboli which are characteristic of pysemia. The clotting of the blood in the veins is one of the consequences of the septic phlebitis. As the latter spreads along the veins, so the clot increases in size. But infective inflammations may also attack healthy veins in which clots have previously formed. It is probable that such clots in the proximity of septic wounds, by the ease with which they become infected, facilitate the entrance of the bacteria. When clots become infected the usual processes of organisation cease, and they soften and disintegrate. Bacteria act upon blood clots within the body in the same manner as they do upon culture media of gelatine or blood-serum. They rapidly peptonise these soft solids and convert them into fluids. The close relationship of acute septic phlebitis to pysemia explains the dread which surgeons once had of operations upon, or injuries to, the veins. Septic phlebitis and pysemia were common after injuries to bones, especially those of the head, in which the veins are capa- cious, destitute of valves, and incapable of collapsing. Pysemia is a frequent complication of septic phlebitis of the lateral sinus from suppurative otitis media, and of injuries to the great veins about the neck of the bladder and prostate. Misled by the appearances of these softened and decolorised clots, John Hunter, and afterwards Cruveilhier, were led to speak of phlegmonous or suppurative phlebitis. In this the so-called pus—in reality the septic and softened clot—was supposed to be secreted by the wall of the vein. Cruveilhier further supposed that this pus was carried away in the blood-stream, and deposited elsewhere to form the metastatic abscesses. The extraordinary rapidity with which pysemic abscesses form was naturally thought to confirm these ideas. The existence of such a disease as suppurative phlebitis was disproved by Arnott and Dance. 3. The infarcts and abscesses.—"Virchow threw a new light upon the pathology of pytemia when he showed that portions of the softened and septic clots became detached, and carried as septic emboli in the blood-stream to the heart, and thence onwards into the pulmonary vessels. Here these septic emboh become arrested in