306 8URGI0AL DISEASES DUE TO MIOBOBIC INFEGTION. that patients subjected to the preventive inoculation treatment within six days of infection recover, with few, if any, exceptions. The especial danger of bites of the head—the mortality after which has been placed at eighty per cent.—and the peculiar virulence of the poison observed in wolves and cats, must be borne in mind even in cases subjected to the preventive treatment. The duration of the disease is usually from two to four days, but patients occasionally survive as long as seven. Treatment. Prophylaxis.—Before proceeding to consider the question of treatment of cases, a word as to prophylaxis must be said. Proper precautionary measures have already succeeded in many countries (Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, Russia, Baden, Bavaria, Wiirtemberg) in suppressing the disease. The regulations necessary are simple, consisting in : (1) The destruction of all rabid or suspected dogs; (2) the destruction of all wandering or homeless dogs; (3) the wearing of muzzles by all dogs while rabies prevails, and for a period equal to the longest interval of latency after the malady has been suppressed ; (4) the forbiddal of the introduction of dogs from countries where rabies is prevalent, or the imposition of a sufficient period of quarantme (Fleming). Local treatment.—Bleeding, if any, from the wound should be encouraged by placing a ligature around the limb above, and possibly the application of cupping-glasses. The wound should be thoroughly treated with strong carbolic acid, or in certain situations may be excised if the patient be seen early. General treatment.—Failing the possibility of protective inocula- tion, the general treatment is palliative only. It consists in ensuring as complete quietness as possible, and in giving nourishment, re- sorting to rectal alimentation when swallowing becomes impractic- able. Hydrate of chloral or morphia is useful; and in the fully- developed disease the sufferings of the patient may be alleviated by the administration of chloroform, a small quantity often sufficing to maintain quietude. Pasteur, convinced of the microbic nature of the virus of hydro- phobia, conceived the idea that the development of the organism in the animal system might be inhibited by the employment of the waste products of the metabolic processes, dependent on its own arowth and multiplication. He discovered that by subjecting portions of the nervous system of hydrophobic animals to a process of desiccation for fixed periods, the virus could be progressively weakened, and eventually rendered inert, without destroying these waste products. Dogs were first treated with portions of nervous tissue thus prepared, injections of gradually-increasing virulency being made; and it was found that the animals were thus rendered immune to rabies. This result obtained, it occurred to Pasteur that, considering the length of the average period of incubation of hydi'ophobia in man, the°fuU development of the disease might be prevented by the inoculation of a similar material, provided the treatment was