AOBTIG ANBUBYSiM. 641 its partial organisation ; but as the artery from winch the aneurysm sprin<-s does not become obliterated, such an aneurysm, however solid,°is not really cured, and subsequent growth may and often does occur. Aortic aneurysm causes death in many ways, ihe sac may rupture into the pericardium, heart, pleura, mediastinum, trachea, bronchus, oesophagus, spinal canal, or externally. Fatal syncope may occur from obstruction to a coronary artery, or from the weight of blood above the aortic valves. Death may be due to interference with the circulation by pressure upon or com- munication with the pulmonary artery (Fig. 184), or pressure on the pulmonary or systemic veins j or to the respiratory difficulty caused by pressure on the trachea, bronchus or lung, laryngeal paralysis, bronchitis, and pneumonia. _ Cerebral embolism is yet another cause of death. In many cases aortic aneurysm is com- plicated with valvular disease of the heart, and this is another factor in the fatal termination of such cases. Great dilatation of the ascending portion of the aortic arch often leads to incompetence of the aortic valve. Treatment.—The treatment of aortic aneurysm is palliative only : it cannot, so far as our knowledge goes at present, be curative ; but yet it may be so far successful that the patients may be able to resume active work for a few years. The constitutional treatment for aneurysm described on page 609 should be carried out with the utmost care and attention to detail. Absolute rest should be en- joined, the heart’s action, if excited, should be calmed, and a care- fully-regulated diet prescribed. Large doses of iodide of potassium may be useful and, in cases of syphilis, should always be given. Under this treatment, continued for some time and then most cautiously relaxed, great improvement may be obtained ; but as the aneurysm in every case still exists, such patients should care- fully avoid effort, strain, excitement, and all conditions tending to raise the arterial tension. Of surgical measures, electrolysis and acupuncture have been the most successful. They can only be employed when the aneurysm is pressing against or bulging through the surface, and it is in saccu- lated aneux’ysms with small orifices and without large branches open- ing out of the sac that the best results have been obtained. In employing electrolysis it is best to use steel needles connected with the positive pole only, a large negative electrode being placed on the back. A current gradually increased up to 40 or -50 milliamperes is to be employed for 20 to 30 minutes, and repeated if necessary at intervals of seven to ten days. If acupuncture is employed Macewen’s method should be followed, the number of needles used and the frequenc}’’ with which they are introduced varying with the nature of the case. By either of these plans a clot may be formed which may arrest the growth of the aneurysm and avert immediate danger and relieve pain. But the clot may become organised and greatly strengthen the sac, and in some very favourable cases a pouch of the aneurysm may in this way be obliterated. V