327 CHIGOE. Tn other cases the ulcer heals very slowly from the margins, often iMn. rise to considerable deformity, such as ectropion or deformity of the alie nasi; the hair follicles over the affected area are destroyed. When on the limbs, cicatricial contractions of the joints may result. The local process is accompanied by no constitutional symptoms, but may be complicated by more or less serious attacks of acute ^^°^Dia^nosis!—ffhe^ diagnosis must be made by attention to the historv and the district in which the disease originated. _ Prognosis.—This is good as to recovery, but cicatricial contrac- tion may give rise to permanent deformity. Compbcatmns such as those mentioned above may give rise to a fatal issue. The progress of the disease may extend over months, or even a year or more. Treatment.—The papule in the early stage may be destroyed with the actual cautery (Murray), or acid nitrate of mercury may be used for the same purpose. Painting the papules with a solution o iodoform in collodion is recommended by Hickman. When ulceration has occurred, the sharp spoon may be used to remove granulations and the base of the sore treated in a similar manner (Wooibert). In any case, care should be taken that the discharge from the sore is not allowed to produce a fresh spot by inoculation; and bearing in mind the possible origin of the disease in the water used for washing, this should be steriHsed by boiling before use. XI. CHIGOE OE, JIGGER. jEtiolOgy.—This is an insect {Pulex penetrans) resembling the common flea, but about one-half to one-third of its length, and pro- vided with a proboscis equalling in length the remainder of the body. The insect is met with in the tropics of Africa, America, and the West Indies, attacking natives, and not infrequently Europeans, especially children who are apt to run about with bare feet. The neighbourhood of the toe-nails is the favourite seat of invasion, but the scrotum and other parts of the body are occasionally aflected. The impregnated female buries her head and proboscis in the skin and swells up, remaining in situ, if not interfered with, until her eggs are matured and extruded, and causes local irritation, inflammation, and suppuration. Treatmont.—In the case of Europeans, care should be taken in affected districts not to place the bare feet on the ground. Natives may anoint the feet with turpentine or carbolised oil as a protective. When the insect has obtained entrance, it should be removed with a blunt needle, care being taken not to injure the body, or troublesome ulceration may ensue. If the insect be injured in extraction the wound should be treated with a strong solution of nitrate of silver XII. TRICHINA SPIRALIS. .ffltiology.—This is a nematode worm, which, when introduced into the alimentary canal, develops numerous embryos, which migrate from the alimentai’y canal into the voluntary muscles of their host.