788 INJURIES OF BONES. (3) Spreading traumatic gangrene is fortunately rare, yet a compound fracture, not as a rule a sevei’e one, has been one of its commonest starting points. Diffuse cellulitis, erysipelatous or “ simple,” may cause extensive sloughing. The surgeon may be to blame for allowing the wound to become septic. (4) Closure of a main artery by complete laceration, rupture of its inner coats with thrombosis, or compression and thrombosis, complicated always by more or less laceration of soft parts and extravasation; division or wound of an artery with extensive extra- vasation ; division of main artery and vein; very rarely, wound or compression of a main vein—form a group, including the most interest- ing causes of gangrene after fractures. {See also pages 132 and 147.) Treatnieiit.—Common sense suggests the measures to be taken to prevent gangrene from many of the above causes. The treatment is amputation, so soon as it is clear that gangrene must occur or has occurred. It must be performed high enough to render it probable that the flaps will live and be free from any infection which may have occurred. In gangrene from wound of main vessels, with which we have been unable to deal, amputation cannot be done lower than the wound. When the vessel has been secured, circula- tion may be restored to a greater or less extent in the threatened part, and this may be the case also in gangrene from thrombosis after injury; amputation must then be done above the gangrene in well-supplied and non-infected tissues. Venous thrombosis and embolism in fracture.—Venous thrombosis must occur in every case in which veins are torn or bruised; it excites attention only when it spreads widely. The reason why some thrombi spread is unknown. It appears to be much commoner in simple than in compound cases, and is certainly far more frequent in the lower than in the upper limb, a fact which is probably connected with the slower circulation, tendency to varix, and degeneration of vein-walls in the former. As deep veins can only occasionally be felt when thrombosed, no diagnosis can be made till the thrombi in them are sufficiently extensive to excite marked cedema. This generally appears between the first and fourth weeks after the injury, and more or less suddenly; the swelling may ^ be very considerable, involving a whole limb or more of the body; it is firm, pits little, and often last weeks or months—until the clot clears up or becomes canalised. {See also page 561.) , , u • Embohsm of heart and lungs is the great danger of thrombosis, and is fortunately rare. It is usually a thrombus from the lower limb which shifts, either without obvious cause or in consequence ot some movement or manipulation; the clot is carried into the right heart, where it may stop, but it generally passes on into the pulmonary artery or its branches. The embolus may be quite small, or of a cylinder many inches long, coiled upon itself, and bearing the impressions of the valves in the vein in which it was formed, ih smaller emboli produce the well-known morbid appearances ot infarction; the larger cause sudden death.