297 anatomical tubercle. of the nail bed. Secondly, it must be borne in mind that a wound even is unnecessary for infection, but that the sebaceous or sweat fXlS may serve as points for inoculation 3 and this emphasises the n^d fov properly smem-ing the hands with a suitable ointment before performin^^an autfi^^^^ a nature, be suffered during the performance of such work, the part should be bound round above, to encourage bleeding, thoroughly washed in an the best being 1 in 20 carbolic acid—and the wound sucked, fuither performance of the work being discontmued. It is only to be wished that the latter part of the above advice could be givra to the surgeon also; but naturally, an operation must be finished. One can only say in such a case that the utmost care must be observed. General treatment.—The subjects of these wounds need sup- port by frequently-administered fluid nourishment and the tree exhibition of stimulants, of which, perhaps, brandy is the best. In cases of threatening septic intoxication, stimulants are the only hope— and that a sHght one. Quinine may be given in large doses (grs. _v or more) in the early stages, when the temperature is high. Later, iron, in the form of Tr. ferri perch., is useful. The bowels must be kept acting regularly; and if diarrhoea is present, it must be checked—most usually by the use of opium. An efficient method of administration in such cases is often a starch enema, with Tr. opii Tqxx;^ or better, a ^ or ^ grain morphia suppository. Subcutaneous injections of morphia are usually needed to relieve pain and procure sleep. Local treatment.—The limb should at once be enveloped in a warm dressing with lead lotion, and if signs of serious cellulitis appear, the use of a hot mercurial bath (1 to 5,000) should be at once commenced. This is better employed for periods of one or two hours at intervals, alternating with a warm dressing,than continuously. If there be any objection to the use of mercury, boracic acid may be substituted. Great care must be taken to sling the limb with strips of bandage, so as to avoid any constriction of the upper part by allowing it to rest against the edge of the bath. Early incisions are needed to lower tension, relieve pain, and to allow the exit of pus. These should be sufficient in size and number to effect their object, but especial care should be taken not to carry them beyond the affected area, and not to incise the deep fascia when the subcutaneous tissue only is affected, or the surgeon may become responsible for consider- able, even fatal, spread of the process. Ample nourishment and change of air and surroundings are most necessary during convales- cence from an illness of this nature. II. ANATOMICAL OB, BUTCHERS’ TUBERCLE. Manifestations.—The hands of persons habitually employed in the manipulation of corpses of either men or animals not infrequently become the seat of a chronic thickening known under this name. Its resemblance to lupus early gamed for it the name of lupus