TUBEBOLE. 34.5 associated with the appearance of these distinct ^ey masses In the nlace of such masses certain microscopic nodules alone were detected, which were found to possess a fairly simple structure j and as it was observed that certain of the grey milmry tubeicles, visible to the naked eye, were made up of a collection of these microscopic nodules, the latter were distinguished by the term mbmiUary tubercle. It is to these microscopic nodules only that the term “tubercle ” is, in its strictest sense, now applied. Tl»e structure ot tlie tul>ercle.—The tubercle as it is exposed under a microscopic slide is too small to be seen by the naked eye. The gi-oups and Hnes into which these bodies very usually arrange themselves are, however, visible enough. In a general view of a tuberculous tissue under the microscope, it will be seen that the tubercles are scattered fairly evenly over the field, and that they tend to form well-defined rounded groups or clusters which are more or less emphatically circumscribed (Tig. 63). The changes visible may be said in general terms to resemble those of inflammation, rendered remarkable by the presence of the minute formations or tubercles. The incli^^dual tubercle is rounded, is made up of cells, is clearly differentiated by staining, is void of blood-vessels, and is prone to exhibit a rapid caseous degeneration. It will be noticed that as the centre of the tubercular district is approached, the tubercles and the clusters into which they are gathered become usually lai-<^er and larger (Fig. 63, a). On the outskirts of the infected area, on the other hand, the tubercles are small, and their disposition to form into groups is hardly noticeable (Fig. 63, b) ^ while at the extreme periphery no distinct tubercles are to be seen, although their pre- sence is suggested by certain casual groups of cells (Fig. 63, c). The districts marked A, B, c in Fig. 63 serve to display the three grades of tubercle, and to show its progress and growth from its earliest appearance to its most complete development. The three perfect groups or clusters of tubercles shown in the most advanced area (Fig. 63, a) would be apparent to the naked eye as actual grey nodules, or as “miliary tubercles.” The tubercle appears to begin by a proliferation of the fixed cells of the part, these being represented by the endothelial cells of the blood-vessels or lymphatics, and by the cells of the connective tissue. There is by this means produced a little ill-defined mass of highly nucleated cells, which are usually spoken of as epithelioid, and which are very often located around or near to a blood-vessel (Fig. 64). With these conspicuous bodies are associated a greater number of ordinary leucocytes. So far there is nothing distinctive about the morbid change. At a very early period, however, the proliferation of the epithelioid cells proceeds in such a manner as to produce the appearance known as giant cells. The individual features of these remarkable bodies are at first indistinct. Their earliest manifestations are shown Fig. 64. in