191 SYMPTOMS. A child under my care ran a stick into his face whilst playing in the warden. Four days afterwards the facial muscles began to twitch,°and this was followed by trismus and opisthotonos. Similar instances are mentioned by Fagge and others. Accordiiig to Rose, of Zurich, facial paralysis may accompany tetanus, especially when the original lesion is in the distribution of the facial nerve. In these circumstances an ascending neuritis is supposed to ensue, and to cause swelling with compression of the nerve within its bony canal. , , . , i,- . i The tetanic muscles feel as hard as stones, and their bellies stand out in knotted masses. They are the seat of horrible pain, com- parable to that of violent cramp. Oftentimes their fibres rup- ture, causing bruising and extravasations of blood. Even such muscles as the psoas and rectus femoris have been found to be torn across. The affected muscles are usually painful when manipulated. The paroxysms of clonic spasm, which supervene upon the tonic spasm, do not occur spontaneously at the beginning of the disease, but are usually excited by some trifling irritant acting through any of the senses. For instance, they may be caused by sounds, such as the banging of a door, the moving of furniture, or by loud voices. They are also excited by strong light, by vibra- tions, by joltings, by currents of air upon the skin or the contact of bed-clothes, by the patient’s own efforts to eat or drink, or even by his emotions. The difficulty in swallowing, and the dyspnoea caused by efforts to drink, simulate hydrophobia. Indeed, the resemblance is some- times so close that a tetanus hydrophobicus has been described. In this the muscles of the face, as well as those of the larynx and pharynx, are especially involved. Flowever, the resemblance be- twixt tetanus and hydrophobia is very slight in ordinary cases. From the above it will be noted that the spasms of tetanus are to no small extent reflex in their nature. A slight peripheral efferent stimulus, acting upon the over-irritable nerve-centres of the medulla oblongata and spinal cord, produces through the efferent nerves violent tonic and clonic spasms. The nature of the poison which causes the exalted reflex activity of the nerve- centres will be discussed later. It is to be noted that as the disease progresses the spasms become more spontaneous, and recur with augmented violence, frequency, and pain. In tetanus the general condition suffers less than might be ex- pected from the severity of the symptoms. The mind is clear, though full of apprehension. There may be slight debrium towards the close. Sleeplessness prevails, although patients have been known to fall asleep spontaneously, the muscles becoming soft and yielding for the time. Verhoogen and Baert mention a raslt, like erysipelas which fre- quently precedes the acute symptoms. What was thought to have been an erysipelas preceded tetanus in the case of a youth wlio was