.551 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL VESSELS. Tlie artery of the frcenum prcepritii is sometimes torn, and continues to bleed freely. Complete division of the vessel in the wound often stops the hiiemorrhage, especially with the aid of gentle pressure ; if not, the proximal end of the vessel must be seized and tied. The artery of the hymen, when torn, may also lead to serious haemorrhage ; if pressure fails to arrest it, the vessel must be tied. Of the upper limb.—If the axillary artery or one of its branches be wounded, the bleeding vessel must be exposed and a ligature applied to both ends. It is important to follow the cardinal rule in these cases, as it is often difficult, and even impossible, to determine by other means what vessel is wounded; and the anasto- moses of the branches of the axillary artery are so free that if a ligature is not applied to the distal e^rd of the wounded vessel the hsemorrhage is almost certain to recur. In such a case, considerable enlargement of the woun;l may be necessary’-; and if the wound is high up in the axillary trunk, the pectoral muscles may have to be divided. Until the vessel is securely ligatured the hemorrhage must be controlled by compression of the third part of the sub- cla\dan artery. Wounds of the axillary vein, if not too ex- tensive, should be closed by a lateral ligature. Wounds of the l>racliial artery and of the radial and ulnar arteries in the fore-arm must be treated by double ligature in situ. Wounds of the palmar arches often occasion considerable trouble. They may be dealt with by a carefully-applied graduated com- press over the wound, combined with full flexion of the elbow. But the results of this plan of treatment have been in many cases disastrous. It is far better to enlarge the wound carefully, expose the bleeding artery, and tie it on each side of the wound in it. To expose the deep arch, the inner head of the abductor indicis may be detached from the second metacarpal-bone. If treatment by compression has been tried, and has failed, the local ligature should be resorted to whenever possible. But if this is impracticable owing to the slough- ing in the palm, the graduated compress may be tried once more ; and if this fails, the radial and ulnar vessels may be tied close above the wrist, or the brachial artery at the bend of the elbow. Wher- ever possible, the vessel should be tied at the seat of injury. Of Ihe lower limb.—Wounds of the g;luteal. and sciatic arteries in the buttock are very serious injuries; they should not be treated by plugging the wound or the application of styptics. When the vessel is ■wounded outside the pelvis, it should be cut down upon, and a ligature applied to each end. If exploration of the wound in the buttock shows that the haemorrhage is from a wound inside the pelvis, the surgeon may resort to compression of the common iliac artery by tourniquet or the rectal lever, or he may place a ligature on the internal iliac artery; and the best way to reach it is through the peritoneal cavity. ^ Of these methods, the ligature is to be pre- ferred whenever possible. Wounds of the femoral artery or its branches require double ligature at the seat of injury. The same method must be employed in wounds of the popliteal or tibial arteries,