1006 DISLOCATIONS. Anomalous forward dislocations.—The principal of these are as follows : Very violent and continued abduction may force the head of the femur into the perineum, where it may be felt, exercising pressure upon the urethra. All the symptoms of obturator disloca- tions are here very exaggerated. The head of the femur has been thrown forwards and directly upwards, and has been found resting upon the ilium, below the anterior inferior spine (subspinous). In all such displacements the detection of the liead of the bone in its novel position wiU be the best guide to diagnosis, and the treatment can only be conducted by carefully studying the peculiarities of each individual case. After consequences and after treatment of dislocations of the hij).—Should there have been extensive lesions of the soft parts, much weakness and lameness may long persist after dislocation of the hip. Should the sciatic nerve be injured, wasting of groups of muscles, especially the extensors of the foot upon the leg, may be observed. In the old and rheumatic, arthritis will probably supervene, with calcareous deposits about the articulation, and weakening of the large muscles about the liip. After reduction of a dislocation, the long splint should be applied for about fourteen days, and then daily manipulations, increasing in extent, should be carried out, with massage of the muscles, and galvanism, and this treatment should be long continued. If there has been any suspicion of fracture of the rim of the acetabulum, it must be remembered that if the patient places his weight on the foot too soon, the dislocation will be certainly reproduced. Treatment by extension and rest should be kept up for fully two months, in a heavy man, in these cases. Compound dislocations of the Aip.—The remarks concernmg dislocations of large joints (page 957) may be studied in connection with this subject. Primary excision should always be preferred to amputation in compound dislocations of the hip. Recapitulation.—To tabulate the methods of treatment of the four common dislocations of the hip by manipulation we may say: (1) Flex the thigh in adduction in the dorsal and sciatic disloca- tions. Flex the thigh in the abducted position in the obturator and pubic dislocations. The object of the flexion is to relax the Y-liga- ment. _ • • j • i (2) Abduct and rotate outwards in the dorsal and sciatic dislo- cations ; adduct and rotate inwards in the obturator and pubic dislocations. These manipulations cause the head of the bone to retrace its steps through the capsular rent, and relax the short r.otator muscles., (3) Extend in all cases. This causes the head of the bone to enter the acetabulum. Congenital dislocations of the hip—Congenital displace- ments of the hip are comparatively common, and are of all kmds, yet the dorsal displacements are the more frequent. The affection is more common in females than in males. Congenital malfoima ion