DISEASES OF JOEVTS. 1064 often a doughy area where caseation of the tuberculous material is in progress. The colour of the skin is rarely altered, but the veins may be more than usually evident. When the surfaces of the joint are afiectcd we have its position altered, the patient putting it in that which gives the greatest ease. If allowed to run on without suitable treatment, abscesses will often form, and sinuses when the latter burst, after which the condition of the end of the bone can be easily made out as a rule with probe or finger. The trcatiiient, constitutionally, is that of tubercle generally— i.e. everything which may improve the general nutrition of the body, in the form of good food and fresh air, tonics, and warm clothing (page 359). Locally, the chief thing at the outset is rest, with counter- irritation in the form of blisters and tincture of iodine. Later, when it is quite evident that the process is in- creasing, we cannot do better than cut down upon the focus of disease in the end of the bone, and re- move it by the gouge or chisel. If this be done at a compara- tively early stage, we have the comfortable assurance that it may prevent invasion of the joint, and, if carefully carried out, such an operation ought to be followed by union by first intention. And even where extensive abscesses have formed in connection with sucli disease in the ends of the bones, we must be cautious^ in as- suming that the joint proper is affected, and must proceed with the utmost caution, 'so as by all means to avoid interfering with the latter. It is very striking how much may be done in many ap- parently unfavourable cases in this direction, and our aim should be here, as in all tubercular diseases, to go to all lengths in the cbrec- tion of conservative surgery compatible with proper eradication of loCtxl foci» The prognosis of tuberculous disease of the ends of bones is favourable, on the whole, if the affection is seen and treated with or without operation fairly early in patients not altogether too debili- tated, and we must never forget the strong tendency there is in a.11 young subjects of tolerable physique to shake off tubercle if only the local and general poAvers are placed under favourable conditions. Charcot’s disease.—The degenerative changes of osteo-arthritis Fig. 437.—Focua of Tuberculous Disease in Done. (From a Photograph by Prof. Cheyne.)