ULCERATION. no dressings, irritating applications, movement of muscles underneath, inability to contract, etc. In these simple ulcers the surface of the sore is nearly on a level with the sm-rounding skin, and it is fairly well covered with granulations, which are of a yellowish or brownish red appearance. The margins of the sore are sharp, and the sur- rounding parts are cedematous and firm. These sores are generally situated about the middle of the lower third of the leg, and where no proper care is taken they may extend fairly rapidly. These ulcers may in certain cases become the seat of an acute inflammation, as the result of septic infection, and we have :— 2. The form which is known as the inflamed ulcer. The inflamed ulcer is a sore which has become the seat of acute inflam- mation as the result of some mechanical or chemical irritation, or bad methods of treatment, or, more especially, of some septic infection of the surface. In these cases the surface of the ulcer becomes intensely red, bleeds readily, secretes lai’ge quantities of pus, extends with great rapidity, and is not infrequently covered with small pieces of actual gangrenous tissue j the skin around is also bright red aird cedematous, the margins are irregular and eaten away, and we not uncommonly find fresh ulcers forming around the margins of the original sore, and merely separated from it by bridges of inflamed skin. These ulcers are acutely painful. 3. Irritable ulcer.—This form of ulcer is especially met with in neurotic women. It is usually situated above the external malleolus. The base of the ulcer is somewhat elevated, not unlike a boil, the apex of which has been cut oflP, and it is intensely tender to the slightest touch, and in some cases bleeds readily. It is generally associated with menstrual disorders. 4. Weak ulcer.—Simple ulcers, or even healing sores, are very apt to become weak as the result of defective blood-supply, either from too small a quantity being sent to the part, as in cases where the vessels are diseased, or where there is some obstruction to the return of the blood, or from deficient quality of the blood, for example, where some constitutional disease is going on. In this form of ulcer the granulations become smooth and yellowish, the secretions thin and small in amount, and very apt to dry up and form scabs. The edges are pale and flat. In other cases^ the edges and granulations become cedematous, and this more especially takes place where there is some general cause of oedema, such as Jiriglits disease, or valvular disease of the heart, or some local interference with the circulation, such as the presence of varicose vem^ com- pression of the veins from the contraction of the sore, etc. A third form of weak ulcer is one in which the granulations show excessive rtfnt f.nA snrft- •rowth; it chiefly occurs where there is interference with the con- In such cases the granulations become pro-