902 DISEASES UF BONES. Pathological anatomy. tional diathesis or disease can be traced tlirough a sufficient number of cases to make it probable that tliey have anything to do with its origin. -Chronic inflammation especially afl'ect- ing the long bones and those of the skull, beginning in mid life or in old age, appears to be the most probable pathological condition through all its stages. Commencing as a chronic and rarefying osteitis, in which the normal compact tissue becomes finely porous and reticulated, and in which also fresh bone is formed beneath the periosteum, it slowly undergoes that hypertrophic and partially scle- rotic change that we see so well developed in the later stages of the malady. The medulla is also filled up with the same porous bone (Fig. 343). In Sir James Paget’s words: “The bones enlarge and soften, and those, bearing weight, become un- naturally curved and misshapen.” The curvature of the long bones is certainly seen quite early in the disease, and it is fair to assume that this arises from the weight of the body acting through soft and yielding bone (Fig. 344). Late in the disease, when the bone can generally be examined j)Ost-mortem, the density of the new formation is such as to con- tradict any idea of its yielding to pressure. Another question arises as to this hypertrophic rarefying osteitis. Does the bone also lengthen 1 A few specimens seem to indicate tliat such may be the case. In the accompanying illustrations of a case recorded by the writer Fig. 345.—Osteitis Deformans, from a case under the writer’s care. (From a photograph.) in the Pathological Society’s Transactions (vol. xxxix.), it will be seen that, besides the ordinary symptoms of osteitis^ deformans, some single bones are enlarged and curved, and, being unsym- metrical, show evidence of elongation (Figs. 345, 346, 347). In the right fore-arm the radius is very much curved and en- larged, especially in its lower third, whilst the ulna is of normal size and quite straight. The radius must here be increased in length, for otherwise the hand would not be displaced in the opposite direction to the curvature of the I’adius, the curvature