373 LATE RICKETS instances of a severe nature are met with in adult life. Sevm-e knock-knee, or bow-leg, or general stunting in growth may persist, even when great muscular power is regained. In the spine and pelvis the possibility of relieving the bones from pressure is less easy, and well-marked deformities of these parts are more likely to be per- manent. The importance of contraction of the female pelvis in parturition has been already referred to. Treatment.—Rickets, even when severe, is readily cured by suitable feeding of the child. If the mother be unable to afford adequate nourishment, cow’s milk should be substituted up to seven months. This should be mixed with a third part of water, and a Little sugar added. Later the milk may be unmixed, and eggs, a moderate amount of farinaceous food, and pounded meat, or raw meat juice, may be added. Cod-liver oil, or fresh cream (Cheadle) and vinum ferri, may be given medicinally. The administration of phosphate of lime is of little use, being mainly excreted with the urine—a proof that want of power to assimilate the lime salts is rather the cause of defective ossifica- tion than deficiency of lime salts in the diet. The condition of the muscles may be improved by massage; tepid salt baths may be given, and the child should be clothed in flannel, so arranged that it cannot be thrown off at night. Every effort must be made to improve the hygienic surroundings of poor children; in the better classes, bracing air and the sea-side may be recom- mended. The first point in the treatment of the various deformities is the prevention of their increase. Thus, infants with a weak spine must be kept as much as possible in the supine position, those with bent fore-arms must be prevented from crawling, and those with bent legs from walking or standing, except in moderate amount. If the curvatures are severe, splints should be applied to bow-legs on the inner, to knock-knees on the outer, side of the limb. In severe cases below six years of age osteoclasis may be indicated if all signs of active disease have disappeared; when this is necessary, it should be effected by consecutive attempts with moderate force, made on the same occasion, rather than by one severe effort. After six years of age osteotomy may be called for. Late rickets.—The condition known under this name differs in no essential particular from the infantile disease. In Drewitt’s case examination of the bones showed the subperiosteal and epiphysial