DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 486 mater is not aflected, and the subsequent chauges in the cord are due to pressure only. The morbid process in the dura mater may extend backward'- on each side, but rarely forms a complete ring. The exact nature of the changes produced in the cord is not certain. According to Charcot a chronic inflammatory process occurs in the compressed segment—chronic transverse myelitis. It seems doubtful, however, whether myelitis occurs in all cases, and it is thought by some observers that the pressure causes anaemia followed by degenerative changes, and by others that a congested and oedematous con- dition results from the pressure on the veins and lymphatics. In any case secondary degenerative changes soon occur in the sensory tracts above tli^ affected segment and in the motor tracts below it. The effects of the chronic thickening of the dura mater, are, of course, not limited to the cord. The nerves passing through the diseased membrane also I Fi- 608 -Caries of Seventh Cervical and First Dorsal Vertehrie. A sn>all aljscess is situated beUnd tlu- ffisopiiagus and the Spinal Canal is narrowed by the projection of caseous material into it. suffer, and many of the most characteristic symptoms are due to this. The nerves may also be pressed upon in some cases in their foramina by the falhng too-ether of two contiguous vertebrse as their bodies are destroyed. Symptoms.-The symptoms must be divided into those due to pressure upon the cord itself and those arising from pressure on the roots of the ""'The earliest symptom of pressure on the cord is motor weakness in the muscles connected with the compressed segment and with the cord below it. As a rule there are no sensory phenomena at first, but occasionally pricking formication or a sensation of constriction round the body J^^^^^ the pressure augments, the motor weakness may increase to complete imra ysis Ste or even partial loss of sensation is not common, as the -"-T-^^^^^^ are conveyed through the more central parts of the cord, whicn are less likely 0 be aSeVby the pachymeningitis. The knee jerks "^^^ rated at an early stage, and in cases which recover this condition may persist , i