AMFUTATION OF THE PENIS. 1227 place. In those cases in which the operation is ^ot successful, it has u^^^^^ been delayed too long, the disease having already imphcated the lymphatic '"""tj::.^^ Penis is best performed with the knife. The operatu^n should always be performed towards the root of the organ so as 0 jell d^^^^^^ . >f the disease. Before proceeding to operate means must be taken to lesuam iuemorrhage. This is best done by encircling the root of the penis tightly ^vith a piece of india-rubber tubing which is secured with ca ch lorceps. i ne ,operation may be done in various ways, but the cifrcular method is perhaps as efficient as any. The penis being drawn well forwards a circular mcision 1. made round it with a bistoury, dividing the skin only. The corpora caverno a are then cut carefully through from the dorsal aspect, care being taken not to wound the corpus spongiosum. If necessary a full-sized catheter may be in- troduced to define more clearly the limits of the urethra. The part ot the i)eni8 beyond the section of the corpora cavernosa being drawn well forwards, no difficulty will be found in separating these from the corpus spongiosum. Finally the corpus spongiosum is cut through half to three-quarters ot an inch nearer the glans than the incision through the corpora cavernosa. The bleeding is then arrested. There are usually five arteries requiring ligature : the dorsales penis, one in each corpus cavernosum, and one in the septum. In securing these, trouble is not unirequently experienced in consequence of the retraction of the stump that is left. The danger of haemorrhage scarcely exists it the tape or the tourniquet have been properly applied before the operation, as every artery should be secured before the compression is taken off. The projecting urethra is then slit up with a pair of scissors along the dorsal aspect. It is then spread out and attached by catgut sutures to the skin below and to the corpora cavernosa above. In this way the contraction of the urethral orifice, which is often a most serious source of inconvenience and even of danger to the patient after amputation of the penis, may with certainty be prevented. Hilton, who first pointed out the necessity of providing against this accident, recommended that the urethra should be slit along its under aspect, but if this be done the urine is directed downwards between the legs during micturi- tion, while if the slit be made towards the dorsal aspect it is often projected somewhat forwards, and the patient can thus make w^ater with less incon- venience. In performing the operation care must be taken that the skin is not dragged too much forwards, lest sufficient covering be not left. After the operation is finished the cut spongy tissue should be wiped over with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to ^j.), and the stump must be covered with a piece of lint moistened in boric acid or some other antiseptic. After passing water the parts must be well bathed with some antiseptic solution. In this way septic infection, which may readily occur in so spongy and vascular an <jrgan, may be prevented. TiiQflai} method also gives good results. A rectangular flap is raised from the dorsal half of the penis, and whilst the flap is held back the penis is trans- fixed with a fine straight bistoury between the corpora cavernosa and the corpus spongiosum, and a short lower flap cut from above downwards and forwards. The corpora cavernosa are next cut through vertically, opposite the angles of the flaps, and the urethra ms dissected out from the lower flap. After arresting the bleeding, the upper flap is turned down over the stump, and the urethra brought out through a small puncture made in it.