539 WEBBING OF THE FINGERS. j tinger being disarticulated at its base. It is better to do this at as early an iige as possible ; no good can possibly come of delay. ^In some rare cases, as in that from which the annexed di'awing (iMg. 6oy) was taken, two hands may appear to be fused into one. In these no opera- tion is possible. ?> Congenital Want of Development of the Fingers or Microdacty- lism is a less common deformity. In the extreme forms of this all the fingers may be wanting except the thumb and little finger, which may be approxi- mated to each other like the claws of a crab, the hand being deeply clett in the situation of the missing fingers. 5. Partial Congenital Amputation or Dactylolysis is another rare deformity. The accompanying drawings (Figs. 636 and 637) are repre- sentations of a remarkable deformity of the hands in a child that was under my care some years ago. The fingers appear to have suffered in some instances complete, in others partial, amputation in utero. They are marked by deep transverse sulci ; others are shortened, and terminate m Arrest of Development of Fingers. Fig. 636.—Left Hand. Fig. 637.—Right Hand. rounded nodules, with a narrow pedicle connecting them with the proximal I phalanx. Webbing of the Fingers or Syndactylism is occasionally met with. In this condition a cutaneous septum unites contiguous fingers. Sometimes tlie malformation is confined to one digital interspace, and then it is usually that between the index and middle fingers. In other cases it occupies two or all three interspaces. ' The web is a tolerably thick septum of skin, narrow at the base, broader above. It may extend the whole length of the fingers, or only for a portion. The web does not interfere with the movements of the fingers in flexion or extension. . This deformity is not easily remedied by operation. It would seem extremely simple to divide the web and to keep the fingers apart while the raw surfaces are healing, but experience has shomi tbat this treatment leaves the patient little better than before the operation, as gradual union of the raw- surf aces advances from the angle in spite of all that can be done to prevent it. To overcome this difficulty it has been suggested to make a puncture through the web at the base of the space between the fingers, and to pass through this a piece of glass rod or metal, which maybe worn until the wound thus made is completely covered by epithelium. When this healing is complete, the web