INTESTINAL OHHTHUCTION. second course is the best to pursue if the patient's condition is favoui-able and he intussusception small. The last method involves too long an oration i2 d 1 1 i'"'' (P- •'2-^) has, however, been suL ! fully adopted, and Barker has suggested that in suitable cases it might e possd^le to excise the mtussusceptum through an incision in the sheath after placing a row of sutures round the neck of the invagination. Results of Operation for Acute Intestinal Obstruction.-Farouimr C m-tis has collected :328 cases of laparotomy for acute intestinal obstruction performed between 1873 and 1888. Of these 102 recovered and 22(; died giving a total mortality of 68-l) per cent. It is very important to note that" ot the fatal cases 101 were in a desperate condition before the operation and in 41 peritonitis or gangrene of the bowel existed. These figures show clearly the large share which delay takes in causing the high mortality. That the death rate is also largely influenced by the length of the operation is also shown by the same statistics. According as simple relief of the obstruction the formation of an artificial anus, or resection of intestine and suture was practised, the mortality was 5fi-4, fJ6, and 86 per cent, respectively. The mortality is also considerably influenced by the nature of the obstruction : thus in strangulation by bands or apertures it appears to be about 60 per cent.^ in acute intussusception 76 per cent., and in volvulus 82 per cent. Treatment of Chronic Intestinal Obstruction.—As before stated, this most commonly arises from fscal impaction, the compression of the large intestine by a tumour, or its narrowing by a stricture ; much more rarely It results from chronic intussusception. Fmal impaction is most common in elderly women. When it is suspected, the rectum should be explored, and if it be found to be blocked up by a rounded mass of indurated and impacted fffices, the Surgeon must condescend to undertake the duties of the nightman, and empty the human cloaca of its fetid accumulations. This is best done by anaesthetizing the patient, then dilating the sphincter ani with the fingers, breaking down "the indurated mass with a spoon or lithotomy scoop, and washing it away by copious enemata. In chronic inhissusception injection is seldom of much use, and laparotomy gives the best chance of life. The operation has been successfully performed by Howse and others. If the obstruction arise from the gradual compression of the rectum by an intrapelvic tumour, or from malignant or simple stricture of the great intestine, purgatives will be worse than useless ; they will irritate, will often induce vomiting, and will always considerably increase the patient's distress, and should not be repeated. The patient should be kept quiet in bed. His diet must be limited to the smallest amount, and must be exclusively liquid. Arrowroot or ground-rice cooked with water, with the addition of a little brandy or wine, may be given ; mutton or chicken broth being occasionally allowed as a change. Milk is usually found to aggravate the symptoms, but sometimes is taken easily, in small quantities, with soda-water. Enemata may be fairly tried, but if they .do not soon overcome the obstruction nothing is gained by persistently annoying the patient with them. In some cases the introduction of a long rectal tube, and the administration of an injection, m this way may bring about relief. If the stricture is within reach, a catheter can sometimes be introduced through it, by means of which a large olive-oil