INTESTINAL OUST RUCTION. 912 8. Examination of the Rectum should never be omitted ; by it wea^r-m- taiii the presence oi' strictures within reach of the finger, or turaours pressing on tlie rectum, and of fa3cal accumulations. In intussusception, we may fcll the end of the nivagiuated intestine. Those whose hands are small enouH.7o pass into therectum-an uncommon condition in men-might possibly a malignant stricture in the sigmoid flexure. If the stricture be seated at the upper part of the rectum, it may hr recogmsed in some cases by a careful examination of the bowel with bouVieg but this mode of examination is rarely of any value. * Another method of examination often employed is the administration of the largest possible enema, with the view of ascertaining whether the obstruction IS low down in the great gut. This is very fallacious, as the abdominal dis- tension IS often so great that even when the whole colon is free, the patient cannot bear the injection of more than a few ounces of fluid. Treves states that by careful auscultation of the abdomen during the ad- ministration of an enema it is sometimes possible to find the point of obstruction. If the colon is free, the fluid may be heard most clearly as it enters the csecum. 9. The Quantity of Urine.—It is frequently stated that in obstruction high up the quantity of urine secreted is diminished, owing to the lessened extent of intestinal surface capable of absorbing liquids. That scanty urine is com- monly met with in these cases is undoubted, but this is probably due to the fact that the patient vomits all the liquid he takes. By attention to the foregoing points, there may be no great difficulty in coming to a correct opinion as to whether the obstruction is in the large or small intestine. It may also be borne in mind that with the exception of twists of the colon and acute intussusception, all acute obstructions are seated in the small intestine, while the great majority of chronic are in the large. Yet cases do occur in which, though the obstruction be seated in the large intestine, and due to chronic stricture, the symptoms are acute probably from twist or kinking above the narrowed part, and thus errors of diagnosis will occur in spite of every precaution the Surgeon may take ta avoid them. Treatment of Acute Obstruction.—Although it is a comparatively easy matter to indicate the treatment which should be adopted for the relief of the diflPerent varieties of acute intestinal obstruction described above, it is practically impossible to lay down any very definite rules for the treatment of a case in which the sudden onset of abdominal symptoms is suggestive of mechanical obstruction, but in which the character of the symptoms does not allow of a certain diagnosis. There can be no doubt that in many instances, if the exact condition could be accurately determined, the right treatment would consist in resorting at once to abdominal section and relieving the obstruction^ and that medical treatment would be of as little use as in the treatment of an ordinary case of strangulated hernia. The differential diagnosis of the various forms of intestinal obstruction is attended with so much difficulty, and the similarity of the syniptoms caused by other conditions is often so close that the greatest care is necessary in deciding between treatment by medical means and treatment by operation. If a case has been seen immediately after the onset of the symptoms, and if on examination no cause of intestinal obstruction can be detected, the jiatient