LITHOTOMY: AFTER-TREATMENT. 1057 hree cases of this kind that have occurred to me, I have directed the assistant . ho hetl the staff not to withdraw it, but using it as a gaide, have shpped the •orceps along its groove and over its concavity, in this way making it enter he bladder with the greatest ease. It is of the first importance to extract the stone without breaking it, 01 \en chipping fragments from it with the blades of the forceps. No effort insistent with the safety of the patient should be spared in attaining this lesirable result; not for the sake of any vain display of manual skill, but from i reo-ard to the well-being of the patient. If the stone be broken by the ittempt at extraction, what happens ? The Surgeon is obliged repeatedly ,) introduce the forceps and the scoop in his attempts to clear the bladder ; the imcous membrane of which is liable to be braised and excoriated in the -ndeavour to seize the fragments. The bladder requires to be frequently ^vashed out with copious injections of tepid water, and the operation thus Decomes dangerously prolonged. Even after much time has been spent in these efforts, fragments are apt to be left behind which may occasion great irritation, and, if retained, will form the nuclei of future calculi. In children, and indeed in most cases in which the perineum is not very deep, ^0 that after the introduction of the finger the stone can be felt and hooked forwards, the scoop is a most convenient instrument for its extraction; and in I hese cases I have often employed it in preference, to the forceps. ' After the calculus has been removed, it must be examined for facets, and rhe finger must be passed into the bladder and its cavity explored while firm pressure is made above the pubes. In this way the whole interior of the bladder is easily explored except in those cases in which the peringeum is unusually deep. The interior of the bladder may be further explored by means of a searcher; and if other stones be found, they must be dealt with in the same way as the first. If the urine has been foul before the operation, it is well to sponge the surface of the wound over with chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to 5j.), and to apply iodoform. The gum-elastic tule may then be introduced, and secured with tapes to a band round the patient's abdomen. This tube must be kept free from coagula by introducing a feather into it from time to time. The tube is of great service in preventing the wound from becoming blocked up by coagula, by which a free escape of the urine would be interfered with. By means of this tube a ready outlet is given to the urine, the chance of infiltration is lessened, and if there be haemorrhage the wound may readily be plugged i'()und it. After-treatment.—After the operation, the patient must be removed to a l)ed, which should be properly arranged by having a large square of macintosh |jut across it. On this a folded sheet should be laid, Avhich must be rolled up on the further side, so that, as it becomes wetted by the escape of urine, it may be drawn across from under the patient. This must be changed fre- quently in order to keep him clean and dry. A full dose of tincture of opium III barley-water should then be given ; a warm flannel laid across the abdomen; plenty of barley-water allowed for drink, and nothing but rice-milk or light [judding for diet during the first three or four days. After this some broth may be allowed, and the quantity of food gradually increased. Occasionally, iiowcver, it may be necessary to depart from this routine system of dieting ; VOL. II. 3 Y L