i88 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. which an intraorbital aneurism of great severity was cured by intermittent digital compression. The compression was kept up for periods of a minute or two with frequent intervals ; pressure continued for more than one minute caused fainting. The disease was cured in four days. Vanzetti and Scarra- muzza have published another case, in which intermittent digital compression was kept up for five minutes at a time. The case was completely cured by compression during seven hours and twenty minutes, spread over eighteen days. Among the cases collected by Eivington were 16, including those just mentioned, in which digital compression of ilie commoji carotid was adopted. Of these, 5 were idiopathic and 11 traumatic. Two of the former and one of the latter were cured ; in the rest no benefit resulted from the treatment. Instrumental compression was tried in four cases without result. Galvano- puncture was tried twice ; once it failed and once it was fatal. Coagulating injections were used in four cases, in all of which the disease was traumatic. The substance used was perchloride of iron in three cases, two of which were cured and one derived no benefit. In the fourth case a solution of lactate of iron was injected and the patient was cured. In spite of this success the injection of coagulating fluids into a dilated vein in which it is impossible temporarily to arrest the flow of blood, can hardly be regarded as a safe proceeding. Ligature of the common carotid of the affected side has been highly suc- cessful. Eivington has collected 54 cases in which it was performed : 21 were idiopathic, 32 traumatic, whilst the nature of one was not known. Of the 21 idiopathic cases 4 died and 17 recovered ; of these 17, 13 were cured, in 9 vision was restored, in 3 it was not regained, and in the others the effect in this respect is not mentioned. Three cases were benefited by the operation, whilst in one the relief was temporary and the eye-ball and tumour were subsequently removed. Of the 32 traumatic cases, 5 died and 27 recovered. Of these 27, 17 were cured, 1 by subsequent injection. Vision was not regained in 6. In 5 the operation failed, and 2 of these were subse- quently cured by ligature of the opposite artery. Four were partially cured, and one relapsed after apparent cure. The evidence of recorded cases thus seems strongly in favour of the treat- ment of this disease by ligature of the common carotid artery when simple medical treatment and compression have failed to produce a decided impression. In a very interesting case which I saw in Velpeau's wards in 1839, both orbits were affected ; and as pressure on the right carotid arrested the pulsation and bruit in both, that artery was tied. But though the disease was cured in the left orbit by this operation, and temporarily arrested in the right, it reappeared in the latter situation, and was eventually cured there by the ligature of the left carotid. ANEURISM OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. Aneurisms of the Subclavian occur in order of frequency between those of the carotid and of the innominate arteries. They are most often met with on the right side, in the proportion of about three to one ; and this would appear to be in a great measure dependent on their being occasioned by