56; DEFORMITIES OF THE LE(! AND FOO'I. bones at their digital ends become weakened and stretched. The consequence ot this IS, that the gait loses its elasticity, becomes shuffling, and the foot eaKiW tiros in walking. In addition to the pain over the head of the astragalus, pain is often referred to the outer side of the ankle or to the raetatarso-phalangeal joint of the great toe The former is thought to be caused by the pressure of the malleolus on the outer surface of theos calois and the latter by the altered relations of the joint due to flattening of the inner border of the foot. As Roth has pointed out, the pain is often most severe in cases in which the deformity is as vet little developed. ^ The treatment consists, in the first place, in improving the general health and removing the causes of over-fatigue or strain of the foot, without which s irgical treatment may be of little avail. In very mild cases, careful attention to the boots may suffice to give relief. They must be wide at the toe, the heel must be large, and not too high, and made to extend on the inner side to a point opposite the middle of the foot. The boot must be fitted with a " valgus Fig. 6.=)-.—Little's boot for Flat foot- riclit side. Fig. GoS.—Little's boot for Flat foot—right side, seen from be- hind. pad," that is to say, a soft pad of cork, or better of india-rubber, placed inside the b'oot on the inner side in such a position as to support the natural arch of the foot. It is very important that the pad should not be too stiff or too large. ■The upper leathers must be strong, reach well above the ankle, and be firmly laced. If the feet are habitually cold, they must be rubbed twice a day with salt and water and warmly clothed. Methodical exercise of the muscles of the leg and foot, as recommended by Eoth, forms an important part of the treatment. The most useful exercise consists in walking on the toes with the heels slightly raised from the ground. Eoth instructs the patient to walk fifty steps in this way before and after each meal. Massage is also useful in some cases. In more severe cases the apparatus represented in Figs. 657 and 658, known as Little's boot, will be found most effectual. It consists of an inner sole to the boot, fitted with a valgus pad. On the outer side is a steel spring fixed to a plate, which extends in the sole from the heel nearly to the middle of the instep. The upper end of the spring takes its bearing from a curved pad which rests against the leg about three inches above the ankle. In the lower part of the spring is a hinge to allow of the free movement of the ankle-joint.