^'94 DISEASES OF THE VRETIIRA. in 8 cases ; extravasation of urine in 1, and epididymitis in 4. There was tlie points of stricture, and no more wound is made than is absolutolv necessary, ihe mc.s.on is always made downwards towards the floor of 2 urethra Ih.s mstrument may be employed in almost any stricture that win admit the conducting sound. ' Maisonneuve's urethrotome consists of a fine steel sound, deeply grooved along Its upper surface. If necessary, it is guided into the bladder with a sonde condudnce. The stricture is divided by means of a triangular blade with a blunt apex and cutting anterior edge, which is passed alon- the groove in the sound. Teevan modified this instrument by using a guarded knife similar to that of Hill's urethrotome. S g aeu luiiie After the operation of internal urethrotomy, a full-sized instrument should immediately be passed, but it is not usually necessary to tie it in Hill recommended that the patient should pass his water in a hot bath during the first day or two after the operation, and that no instrument should, unless required, be introduced for ten days. A full-sized bougie is then passed daily for a few days, and after that every second or third day fur three or four weeks. After that, the patient should be taught to pass it for himself, and continue to do so at least once a month for the rest of his life. _ The operation of internal urethrotomy is, of course, required only in excep- tional cases. These are chiefly resilient or very irritable, and some very tough strictures. In resilient strictures, dilatation fails because the stricture, though admitting of expansion, immediately relapses. In very irritable strictures, the patient cannot bear the pain of dilatation. In some very tough strictures' simple dilatation fails, and then internal urethrotomy or forcible dilatation is required. In all these cases, the division of the stricture from within removes at once all difficulty in treatment ; and I have frequently employed this very ii simple method with the most marked and permanent success. In fact, in strictures of the scrotal or penile portions of the urethra, one or other of the above conditions — resiliency or irritability — commonly prevails, and I have generally found internal urethrotomy the best mode of treatment. Result.—The risk attending the operation is not great, and diminishes as the stricture approaches the orifice of the urethra. It is not, however, free from danger. The accidents that may happen are, perineeal abscess, extrava- sation of urine, hgemorrhage, and orchitis ; and in some rare cases it may be followed by pyaamia. If the kidneys be diseased, it may, like any other operation for stricture, give rise to fatal acute interstitial nephritis. PerinaBal abscess usually results from cutting too deeply, eo that the knife completely divides the corpus spongiosum. Such abscesses most frequently form beneath the accelerator urinte, and burrow forwards, directed by the expansion of that muscle to the root of the penis. They contain a mixture of urine and pus, but it is rare to find general extravasation into the scrotum. Htemorrhage also results from cutting too freely. In rare cases, after the operation, a per- manently bent condition of the penis remains during erection. In University College Hospital, where the operation has been extensively practised, I find from the Reports of the Surgical Registrar that the results are as follows : In 76 cases operated on during a period of five years, there were 4 deaths, one from tuberculous disease of kidneys, lungs, &c., one from pleurisy, one from septica3mia, and one from suppurative nephritis. Perinjeal abscess occurred