ANEURISM. io6 into which the blood has been effused, matted together with coagulum and inflammatory exudation. It occasionally happens that a more or less sudden rupture of the sac occurs, followed by widespread extravasation of blood into the tissues of the part. To such a condition the name " diffused aneurism " is sometimes applied. 3. Dissecting Aneurism is a form in which the sac is situated in the wall of the artery between its coats. It orig-inates in consequence of the internal coat of the vessel becoming eroded, and giving way before any of that matting together of the tissues around the patch has taken place, which prevents the blood from being forced between the different tunics of the artery. The rupture, although originating. in the internal coat, always extends between the layers of the middle one, splitting this up into two lamiuEC, and in some cases it also separates the middle from the external coat of the vessel (Fig. 447). On examining the artery in a case of dissecting aneurism, its coats will always be found to be easily separable from one another, and to be very lacerable. For the production of this disease two conditions are necessary : 1. That there be atheromatous disease of the artery, destroying a portion of the internal and of the innermost layers of the middle coat; and 2. That there be a general softening of the tissue of the middle coat, with want of cohesion between the different tunics of the artery. In a dissecting aneurism the blood may often extend to a very considerable distance between the layers of the middle coat. Thus it may reach from the arch of the aorta to the ihacs, or from the same part to the bifurcation of the carotids. The disease occurs only in the aorta, and its principal branches, in which yellow elastic tissue is abundant in the middle coat. Dissecting aneurisms arrange themselves into three distinct classes. 1. In one class, the blood, after having passed several inches through the substance of the middle coat, bursts through the external coat, and becomes effused into the areolar tissue outside the vessel, or into the neighbouring cavities. In these cases, which constitute the most common variety of the disease, death usually occurs rapidly, the patient feeling intense pain along the line of rupture and falling into a state of syncope. 2. The external coat may resist the impulse of the blood, which consequently continues to pass between the layers of the middle coat until it meets a softened- and atheromatous patch, and then again bursts into the lumen of the artery. In this form the patient may live for years after the rupture ; the new channel that the blood has Fig. 447.—Dissecting Aneurism of Arch of Aorta. The inner and middle coats (a) have heen ruptured transversely about an inch beyond the semilunar valves. These coats have been extensively separated by the blood from the outer coat (b). m