CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. 1141 ,elvis, between the bladder and the rectum, behind the prostate, giving rise to a rain of obscure symptoms, indicative of irritation about these organs, such as lysuria, strangury, and occasional admixture of pus with the urine. On ■u-efiil examination of the perinasum and rectum, some slight hardness may perhaps be deeply felt in the mesial line, or towards one side of it. Ihis .lowly increases, and a perinasal abscess of an ill-defined character develops. When this has become sufficiently evident, a free incision should be made mto it, and on careful exploration of the cavity with a probe, a sinus will probably be found leading into the pelvis, and to the original seat of the iibscess. This requires to be opened up by a free incision on one side or ,.fcher of the perinseum, as if for lateral lithotomy, and a direct exit given to the matter. ' The cavity must then be allowed to granulate from the bottom. CHRONIC ENLARGEMENT OF THE PROSTATE. Chronic Enlargement of the Prostate may be looked upon as a senile disease, seldom occurring before the age of fifty-five, but commonly met with after this. At that period of life, as Brodie observes, when the hair Ijecomes grey and scanty, when the coats of the arteries begin to become iitheromatous, and when the arcus senilis forms on the cornea, the prostate often becomes increased in size ; but unless the enlargement interferes with the free escape of the urine, no disease can properly be said to exist. If we look upon the diseased enlargement of the prostate as such an amount of liypertrophy of this organ as interferes seriously with the discharge of the urine, we shall probably not find it so frequent even in old men as is generally supposed. Guthrie states that it is not commonly found in the pensioners at Greenwich Hospital. Thompson found that an enlargement appreciable after death existed in 34 per cent, of men above the age of sixty ; but that such a degree of enlargement as to give rise to symptoms during life was met with only in 15 or 16 per cent, of the cases he examined. Though age must be looked upon as the primary cause of hypertrophy of the prostate, there can be little doubt that it may be predisposed to by any continued source of irritation of the urinary organs, such as gonorrhoea, stricture, or hard living. Characters.—Enlargement of the prostate is due to hypertrophy of its normal structures—muscular, fibrous, and glandular. In the early stages the enlargement appears to be due chiefly to overgrowth of the glandular tissue, but in the later stages the fibrous tissue is in great excess ; when, however, the size of the gland has been very slowly and not greatly enlarged, there is nearly equal hypertrophy of all the tissues. The enlargement generally occupies the whole of the organ, and may cause its size to increase to that of a hen's egg or a small orange. In most cases, all the lobes are enlarged • iqually or nearly so, but sometimes there is a disproportionate development of one of the lateral lobes or of the middle portion. More rarely, the lateral lobes or the anterior commissure alone are affected. The enlarged prostate, in the earlier stages, presents to the naked eye an ap- l)earance of rotundity and increased fulness ; at a more advanced stage, there may be great irregularity of outline. There is usually no change of colour externally, and the texture of the gland is generally indurated ; though some- times, when the glandular element is chiefly increased, it is found to be looser