2. Acute inflammation may take place in the bursa with or without previous MORBID ALTERATIONS IN BURS/E. between these muscles and the bone. At the heel there is a large bursa between the tendo Achillis and the os calcis. The above burs» are all well- developed and constantly present, and are those most liable to disease ; but m addition to these a number of less perfectly formed subcutaneous sacs are met with in all parts of the body. The most important of these are in the following situations :—behind the angle of the lower jaw, on the symphysis of the chin; on the acromion, the external and internal condyles of the humerus, the styloid processes of the ulna and radius ; on the dorsal surface of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulations, and on the dorsal aspect of the phalangeal articulations ; on the anterior superior spine of the ilium; on each condyle of the thigh-bone, the tuberosity of the tibia, the two malleoli, the dorsal aspect of the toes, and on the plantar aspect of the heads of the first and fifth metatarsal bones. Morbid Alterations.—The continued irritation of bursffi by pressure may cause them to enlarge and to undergo various changes in structure. Enlarge- ment of the bursse in particular situations is often connected with special employments, by which pressure is exercised upon certain parts of the body: thus frequent kneeling will occasion enlargement of the bursa patellae, hence called " housemaid's knee ; " miners are subject to an enlargement of the bursa lying over the olecranon, hence called "miner's elbow" (Fig. 612) ; and hand-weavers to the same condition in that over the tuberosity of the isch- ium, giving rise to "weaver's bottom." The following pathological con- ditions may occur in the bursas in any part of the body :— 1. The bursa may, in consequence of continued pressure or irritation, become simply enlarged and filled by the excessive secretion of a clear straw- coloured serous fluid. This is termed Dropsy of the Bursa. enlargement. Suppuration often occurs, and when the swelling is opened, fluid, consisting of an admixture of the bursal secretion and pus, escapes. The'bursa, when its contents have suppurated, may either give way externally, pointing like an ordinary abscess, and the integuments covering it sloughing ; or the pus may escape subcutaneously beneath the deep fascia, and form a widely spreading abscess around the part. 3. The enlarged bursa may contain a dark fluid, usually of a brownish colour, with a large number of small flattened elongated bodies of about the size of grains of rice or of melon-seeds, floating in it. The wall of the bursa is thickened and, according to Nicaise, the presence of tubercle nodules has in some cases been demonstrated in the dense fibroid tissue of which it is com- posed. The " melon-seed bodies " are of a fibroid structure, and their mode of origin is not certain. They have been supposed to be formed in some cases by a fibrinous exudation into the cavity of the bursa, their peculiar form Fig. 612.—Enlarged Bursa over Olecranon—Miner's Elbow.