DISEASES OF THE LOWER JAW. 646 Hiid by iufiltration of neighbouring parts, with early adliesion to the skin and occasionally by their implicating the glands below the jaw. The Treatment of solid tumours of the lower jaw must be determined by their nature. The simple fibrous and bony growths can usually be completely removed without sacrificing any part of the jaw itself, or at the most, tluit part from which the tumour actually springs. In central myeloid sarcoma the most extensive operation that can be required is to remove completely the affected segment of the jaw, dividing it beyond the limits of the tumour. Even less extensive measures than this may give satisfactory results if the myeloid tumour is still small. Thus, when it affects merely the alveolus, it may be removed with cross-cutting forceps, whilst if centrally placed in the body of the jaw, an attempt may be made to remove it and the surrounding bone with the gouge. If recurrence occurs, the affected part should be com- pletely excised. In the treatment of subperiosteal sarcoma nothing but a free removal of the bone is likely to prove successful, and, indeed, it is in these cases that excision of half the jaw is generally practised. Excision of the Lower Jaw.—The operation of excision of a portion of the lower jaw for tumour of that bone was first performed by Deadrick of Tennessee, in 1810, and not, as is generally but erroneously supposed, by Dupuytren. As the growths for which thjs operation is performed are usually situated between the symphysis and the angle of the bone, seldom extending beyond the middle line, the operation is generally limited to one side of the face. In some instances, however, the tumour may encroach so far that it may be necessary to remove more than the half of the bone ; and in other cases again, though of very rare occurrence, the whole of the bone has been disarticulated. When the tumour is of moderate size, and is situated about midicay Mivem ihe symphysis and mnjh of the jaw, it may be reached by making a curved incision of sufficient length under the lower edge of the bone, and can-ying the anterior extremity of it well forward upon the chin, but not dividing the lower lip, if it can be avoided, nor cutting into the angle of the mouth ; then dissecting up the flap thus formed, and carrying the knife cautiously along the inner side of the jaw, so as to detach the mucous membrane of the mouth and the mylo-hyoid muscle to a sufficient extent. In doing this, the hsemor- rhage is often very profuse : the bleeding from the facial artery is particularly forcible, and should be at once controlled by the application of ligatures to both ends of the divided artery, and to any other points from which it is abundant. Unless this be done, the after-steps of the operation will be rendered much more obscure and difficult. One of the teeth on each side of the tumour having previously been drawn, the jaw must now be deeply notched through their alveoli into its base with a narrow strong-backed saw, and cut through with forceps, or completely divided with the saw. After the piece of bone, with the attached tumour, has been removed, and all bleeding vessels have been secured, the flap of cheek should be laid down, and retained in situ by means of sutures. Occasionally the dental artery in the cut jaw gives trouble ; the haemorrhage from this source may be checked by touching it with the actual cautery. The patient must at first be fed with slops, which should be sucked in through a tube. At a later period, when cicatrization is well advanced, the teeth should be tied together with strong silver wire ; or a silver cap should be fitted upon the teeth of the two portions of bone that are