1274 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE (.'ENERATIVE ORGANS. occasionally become the seat of an abscess originating in the vnlvo-vaginal gland and requn-ing evacuation by a Iree incision on the inner ^Lspect of th ' alfected abnim Chrome mjlammaiion of specific origin, or resulting from i prolong-cd irri ation caused by the presence of a concealed fissure or uloor ' may induce a kind of solid oedema, sometimes leading to considerable hy,., , : trophy of one or both labia. This condition is usually curable in its earl. . stage by removal of the source of irritation which has led to it; but wh, . i ot long standing, it may occasionally necessitate surgical interference Tl,.- disease known as Noma or Gangrenous Vulvitis, occurring in youn ^ badly-fed children, has been referred to elsewhere (Vol. I., p. 935) Large Condylomata or Verruca are often met with here as a result o A syphilitic or gonorrh(X3al disease, and if neglected, may ultimately form^ irregular pendulous masses requiring extirpation by the knife or scissors, or « preferably by means of the cautery. Pibro-cellular Tumours, originating as outgrowths from the natiiml structure of the labia, are occasionally met with, and may require removal hv excision with Paquelin's cautery knife. Squamous Carcinoma may develop on the labia, although its more common seat of origin is in the neighbourhood ot the clitoris. It usualiv appears as a nodular growth, which soon ulcerates, forming a sore with raised mdurated and sharply defined margins, bleeding readily. AVhile the disease IS yet limited, and the neighbouring glands are but slightly, if at all, involved, excision of the affected tissues by the knife, followed by a free application of the cautery, is the proper treatment to adopt. Cystic Tumours of the labia are not unfrequently met with, and may sometimes resemble rather closely the ordinary form of labial hernia, with which, however, their incompressibility and irreducibility, as well as the absence of any impulse on coughing, will prevent their being confounded. These cysts, which require removal by a little simple dissection, usually contain a clear glairy fluid, the retained secretion of the vulvo-vaginal gland; some- times, however, the fluid is turbid and of a dark brownish hue from admixture of blood. Tolerably free haemorrhage from the vascular tissues of the labium may foUow their removal, requiring for its arrest the use of the cautery, or the firm pressure of a pad secured by a T-bandage. Occasionally these cysts project on the inner surface of the vaginal orifice, in which situation a simple incision, followed by removal of an elliptical portion of the cyst wall, is usually sufficient to effect a cure. Varix and Haematoma.—A varicose condition of the veins of the labia and adjacent structures, apart from pregnancy, is occasionally, though rarely, met with, and may require surgical interference, not only on account of the discomfort arising from it, but also in order to avoid the risk of the formation of hgematoma by subcutaneous rupture of the distended vessels. Destruction of varicose veins in the region of the meatus urinarius can be effected with Paquelin's cautery, care being taken to protect the healthy mucous membrane from injury by the employment of a bone speculum. In cases requiring operation for the removal of greatly enlarged Jahial veins, the safest plan to adopt is that of transfixing the affected labium with a stout pin, and then strangulating the entire mass of diseased vessels by means of an elastic ligature. A swpimrating hsematoma of the labium should be carefully opened and thoroughly evacuated, and treated antiseijtically.