MEDIAN LITHOTOMY. lo?^ hazardous cases. Thus it follows that no comparison can possibly be made t we n^^^^^^ the operation in the hands of a Surgeon who reserves it for exceptional cases, with that which obtained when lateral ithotomy was practically the only method adopted. Thompson's list being chiefly composed of cases treated in private practice, contains only twelve cases in which the operation was performed on youths and boys ; of these only one died Gilbert Barling finds that of 9(i lateral lithotomies performed m thirteen Hospitals in this country during the five years 1888 to 1892, 5 or 1 in ]9-2 died, giving a mortality of 15-4: per cent. As in all other methods of lithotomy Age exercises a marked influence on the mortality of the lateral operation. Thus C. Williams found the mortahty at the Norwich Hospital, at diff'erent ages, to be as ft)llows : below 10 years, 1 in 15-95 : 10 to 20 years, 1 in 8-G9 ; 20 to 4(1 years, 1- in 10-3 ; 40 to 60 years, 1 in 4-94: ; 60 to 80 years, 1 in 3-94. The reason of the small mortality after lithotomy in boys, as compared with adults, is most probably the healthier condition of the urinary organs, more especially the kidneys. Hence when boys die it is usually from some accident occurring in the course of the operation, and not from unavoidable circumstances which may follow it. As an example of the success which may follow perinseal lithotomy in boys it may be mentioned that Freyer has performed 191 consecutive operations in India without a death—a result probably dependent in no small measure upon the well-known fact that the inhabitants of India bear surgical operations remark- ably well. Mediax Lithotomy.—The median operation of lithotomy is that procedure by which a stone is extracted through an incision in the raphe of the peringeum extending into the urethra behind the bulb. The history of the operation affords an illustration of the mutability of professional practice, and makes it appear as if there were a cycle of opinion in surgery, as in fashion, politics, and philosophy. The median operation was introduced three or four hundred years ago, and continued to be practised up to the middle of the last century, when its tediousness, its painful character, and the excessive mortality following it, caused it to fall into disuse as soon as the safer and simpler method of Cheselden was introduced. However, it was revived under a somewhat modified form ; and it is this modern operation that we must here consider. The old median operation—called also the " Marian," from Sanctus Ma- rianus, who wrote on it, though it did not originate with him, and the '"operation of the apparatus major," from the number of instruments used in it—was, according to John Bell, performed in the following manner : A grooved staff was introduced into the bladder, and the patient tied up in the usual way ; the lithotomist then, kneeling or sitting before him, made an incision in the perinaeum, not exactly in the raphe, which was thought to be dangerous, but very slightly to the left side, and terminating just above the anus. The incision was then carried on to the membranous part of the urethra, which was opened on the groove of the staff; and, the knife being kept firmly pressed against the staff, a long probe was introduced into the bladder by its side. The knife and the staff were now withdrawn, nothing but the probe being left in the bladder, to serve as a guide. Along this probe, two iron rods, called "conductors," were now passed, and with these the operator dilated the prostate and neck of the bladder, by separating the handles ; at least, it was said that he dilated them, but, as John Bell pithily