URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY, 1070 In such cases a liberal allowance of stimulants will be required, together with the local application of compound tincture of benzoin ; and, iu order to facilitate healing at a more remote period, a solution of nitrate of silver may be applied to the wound. The phosphates may be removed by injection of the dilute nitric acid lotion. Pyaemia and Septicaemia are occasionally causes of death after lateral lithotomy. Septic poisoning is usually the immediate cause of death iu diffuse pelvic cellulitis. Pyaemia, when it occurs, usually sets in after the first week. The secondary abscesses are not uncommonly confined to the joints and sub- cutaneous areolar tissue, and the pya3mia may assume a chronic form. The treatment presents nothing special. Mortality.—Lateral lithotomy, even in healthy subjects, is always a dangerous operation ; and, though the rate of mortality doubtless depends greatly upon the dexterity of the'operator, more is, I believe, due to the con- stitution and age of the patient, and especially to the state of his kidneys. Brodie justly says, " Success in hthotomy most undoubtedly depends in a great degree on the manual skill of the Surgeon, and on the mode in which the operation is performed ; but it depends still more on the condition of the patient with respect to his general health, especially on the existence or non- existence of organic disease." As in all other methods of lithotomy the most common cause of death is chronic disease of the kidneys (p. 1042). As examples of the success attained by individual Surgeons in former years, it may be mentioned that Cheselden lost one case in every lOf ; Green, at St. Thomas's, cut 40 patients in succession, and lost only one ; Bransby Cooper, of Gruy's, cut 30 patients in succession without a death, but then lost several, thus bringing the rate of mortality to the usual standard. Listen, during a period of six years, in which he operated 24 times, lost no patient from lithotomy at University College Hospital ; but out of the whole 37 cases which he cut during the period of his connexion with that institution, there were 5 deaths ; reducing the average to 1 in 7"2. This success was, however, very great when it is taken into consideration that most of these cases occurred in adults, and that many of them were of a "s-ery serious character. I find on reference to the Hospital records, that only 7 of the patients were under 10 years of age, whilst 14 were above 50 ; of these two were 80 years of age, of of whom 1 died and the other recovered. 1 believe that Listen lost only one patient under 60 years of age, and that was a lad of 18, in whom he found it necessary to divide the right side of the prostate as well as the left, and who died of infiltration of urine. Turning to the general statistics of the operation, we find that of 871 cases tabulated by C. Williams in which lateral lithotomy was performed at the Norwich Hospital in the years 1772 to 1869 inclusive, 116 or 1 in 7-:) died, thus showing a mortality of 13-32 per cent. Of 1,827 operations performed in various hospitals in this country between 1790 and 1840, collected by Thompson, 229 or 1 in 7*9 died, giving a mortality of 12*5 per cent. The most important recent statistics are those giving the result of Thompson's practice between 1857 and 1889. Of 127 cases of perineal lithotomy, chiefly lateral, 44 or 34*6 per cent. died. The explanation of this high rate of mortality is not far to seek, fur the cutting operation was only undertaken in prefei'ence to lithotrity in a small group of exceptionally