221 ANEUBISM OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. The Diagnosis rests chiefly on the situation of the tumour, its distinct expansile pulsation, the existence of an aneurismal bruit, and the pressure- signs. Very marked epigastric pulsation is not an unfrequent symptoni in amemic patients sulfering fi-om atonic dyspepsia, and in these cases very slight pressure on the artery with a stethoscope will give rise to a distinct bruit. Under these circumstances, it is sometimes not easy to speak positively as to the condition of the artery, but in the majority of cases a careful examination under an angesthetic will determine the nature of the disease. A displaced or enlarged heart also gives rise to distinct epigastric pulsation, but this can hardly be mistaken for aneurism. A solid mass of fceces in the transverse colon may receive a veiy distinct impulse from the aorta, but the doughy feci of the mass, its superficial nature, and the history of the case, will usually readily determine its nature. A prominent lumbar vertebra pushing the aorta forward may simulate a dilatation of the artery. Enlarged lumbar glands surrounding the artery may give rise to considerable difficulty in diagnosis ; and here again a careful examination under an ansesthetic is the most likely means of arriving at a correct conclusion. Sarcomatous tumours growing from the bones may give rise to almost insuperable difficulties in the diagnosis. From tumours of the various abdominal viscera the diagnosis must be made on general principles. The amount of fat in the abdominal walls necessarily has a great influence on the difficulty or ease of coming to a definite conclusion. Treatment.—In all cases of aneurism of the abdominal aorta, constitutional treatment should be given a fair trial before any more severe measures are adopted. Tufnell has recorded two cases in which a cure was effected by diet and rest—in one case in 21 days, and in the other in 37. If this treatment fail, the Surgeon may have recourse to compression of the abdominal aorta. The pain of this application is so severe that, in order to relieve it, the patient must be kept under the influence of chloroform ; moreover, without thorough relaxation of the abdominal muscles it is impossible to employ it efficiently. The credit of introducing this mode of treatment is due to Murray of Newcastle-on-Tyne. The operation has now been performed for aortic aneurism in a considerable number of cases. Of six cases in which the pressure was applied on the proximal side of the sac, three—MuiTay's, Durham and Moxon's, and Greenhow and Hulke's—were successful; one, Pollock's, failed ; and two, Durham's second case, and Paget's, were fatal. Of four cases in which pressure was appHed on the distal side of the sac, one, under Bryant, and one under Lunn and Benham, terminated fatally, and the other two, under Marshall and Barwell, failed. In most cases the pressure has been applied by means of Lister's aortic tourniquet. That this instrument may in some cases be safely applied to the abdominal aorta from the highest point a t which the artery can be reached to its bifurcation, is clearly proved by the results of the cases above mentioned. In Durham and Moxon's case, it is stated that "by positioning the body of the patient, just sufficient space was afforded for the introduction of the pad of the tourniquet between the cartilages of the ribs and the anem'ism." In Greenhow and Hulke's case, it was applied midway between the xiphoid cartilage and the umbilicus! immediately above the tumour. That three out of the above ten. cases have terminated fatally, however, shows that the operation is by no means devoid of danger. In Pollock's unsuccessful case the patient suffered from