352 DISEASES OF JOINTS. must be used sparingly if at all. The external application of mercurial pre- parations, with a view of promoting absorption of the inflammatory products, is rarely productive of good, and may be positively injurious from its consti- tutional effect. To sum up, it may be stated that in the early stages of tuber- culous joint disease most Surgeons are at the present time inclined to rely upon perfect rest, with or without extension, as the local treatment, combined with proper attention to the general health. The expectant treatment is most likely to prove successful in cases in which the disease is limited to the synovial membrane, but it occasionally succeeds even when there is strong evidence of a tuberculous deposit in the bone. In a large number of cases, however, especially among the poorer classes, some form of operative interference will sooner or later be required, and it is a matter of the utmost importance to decide in what cases this is necessary. Although it is impossible to lay down rules which shall include all the con- ditions indicating operative interference, most Surgeons will agree with Watson Oheyne that it is certainly required under the following circumstances : First, when chronic suppuration has occurred ; secondly, in the early stages, when the disease is localized to one part of the synovial membrane or bone ; thirdly, in the later stages, when there is a deposit in the bone with general synovial thickening ; fourthly, in cases of synovial disease, when expectant treatment has failed to arrest its progress ; fifthly, in cases in which a better functional result can be obtained by operation ; sixthly, in certain cases when phthisis is present, or when the general condition is such as to make removal of the disease necessary. The operative procedures adopted are four in number : Arthrotomy or Incision, Arthrectomy or Erasion, Excision or Eesection, and Amputation. It is needless to say that these should be undertaken with the strictest attention to antiseptic precautions, upon the success of which the result will to a great extent depend. Arthrotomy consists merely in freely opening the joint by one or more incisions, so placed as to injure the neighbouring muscles and tendons as little as possible. The operation is thus performed : The limb must first be thoroughly cleaned with soap and hot water, and afterwards washed with perchloride of mercury solution (1 in 500), or carbolic lotion (1 in 20). It is then made bloodless if possible by Esmarch's bandage. The joint is then freely opened by one or more incisions placed, if possible, at the most dependent part of the articulation, and of sufficient length thoroughly to drain the cavity without necessitating the use of drainage-tubes. The wounds should be held open with blunt hooks, and any pulpy granulation tissue that comes into view should be removed with forceps and scissors. In some cases an oval slice of the diseased membrane may advantageously be taken away. If the incisions have been so planned that no important vessel is wounded, the dressing may now be applied before removing the tourniquet. The following dressing has been found to succeed very well in a considerable number of cases at University CoUege Hospital : The wounds are first dusted with iodoform, and then over each a strip of the " green protective " oiled silk dipped in carbolic lotion is applied in order to prevent scabbing. Over this is placed a piece of carbolic cauze wrung out of carbolic lotion (1 in 20), so that there may be a powerful chemical antiseptic next the wound during the period of early discharge. Over this is placed a pad some inches thick of absorbent salicylic or iodoform wool, reaching about a foot on each side of the joint, and secured by a bandage