67 ANEURISM JJY ANASTOMOSIS. CHAPTER XLI. ANEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS, AND N^VUS. HiEMOREHAGIC DIATHESIS. ANEURISM BY ANASTOMOSIS. Aneurism by Anastomosis, or Cirsoid Aneurism, is a rare disease of the arteries, in which they become excessively elongated, tortuous, and serpentine ; sometimes they assume a varicose condition, being dilated into small sinuses, and they are always very thin-walled, resembling veins rather than arteries in structure. This kind of dilatation of the vessels gives rise to pulsating tumours, often of considerable size, and of a very active and dangerous character. They may be situated in almost any tissue or organ of the body, but are generally met with in the submucous and subcutaneous areolar tissue, and most frequently in the upper part of the body, especially about the scalp, orbit, lips, and face ; but they have been seen in other situations, such as the tongue, and even in internal organs, as the liver ; and I have had under my care tumours of this kind on the side of the chest, nates, and foot. It will generally be found that the arteries leading to an aneurism by anastomosis, though at a considerable distance from it, are tortuous and enlarged, with thin and expanded coats, and pulsate actively ; in fact, constituting that con- dition that goes by the name of Cirsoid Dilatation of the vessels. Aneurisms by anastomosis form tumours of varying size and irregular shape; they are usually of a bluish colour, have a spongy feel, are readily compressible, not circumscribed, and have large tortuous vessels running into and from them on different sides. Their temperature is generally higher than that of neighbouring parts ; and a vibratory or purring thrill, with distinct pul- sation, may be felt in them. This is synchronous with the heart's beat, maybe more or less completely aiTcsted by compressing the tumour or the arteries leading to it, and returns with an expansive beat on the removal of the pressure. The bruit is often loud and harsh, but at other times of a soft and blowing character. These tumours rarely occur in infancy, but generally make their appearance in young adults, though they may be met with at all periods of life, often as the consequence of injury. Diagnosis.—It is of importance to make the diagnosis between ordinary aneurism and that by anastomosis. In many cases the situation of the tumour at a distance from any large trunk, as on the scalp, the outside of the thigh, or the gluteal region, will determine this. Again, the outline of the tumour is less distinct than in true aneurism ; and tortuous vessels will be felt leading to It from different directions. The swelHng also is doughy and very com- pressible; but, when the pressure is removed, the blood enters it with a whiz and thrill, not with the distinct pulsating stroke that is found in aneurism. F 2