DISEASES OF THE RADIUS AND ULNA. 395 or dislocation, has already been stated in Vol. I., pp. 590 and 680. When practised for disease it is equally satisfactory ; and indeed death can occur only from some accidental complication, such as may follow any operation. I have lost only one patient out of very many in whom I have excised the elbow-joint. The principal danger after this operation arises from diffuse suppuration in the medullary canal of the humerus. I have seen this happen in two fatal cases in the practice of others, pyemia developing in both instances ; and in a third, in which the patient lost his hfe, it is probable that death, which was attributed to pneumonia, occurred from the same cause. DISEASES OP THE RAX>IUS AND ULNA. The various inflammatory diseases to which bones are liable occasionally affect the radius and ulna. Syphilitic nodes are sometimes met with on the subcutaneous border of the ulna, and extensive tuberculous caries of either bone may occur. Acute necrosis is much less common than in the humerus. Fig. 556.—Arm from which Radius lias been removed. Fig. 557.—The Radius after Removal. Sarcoma of these bones is rare ; when central it generally involves the lower end. When the disease is subperiosteal, amputation should be performed through the elbow-joint or in the lower third of the arm, but in the treatment of a central tumour resection of the affected portion of the bone may be practised. In a case of myeloid sarcoma of the radius which had become adherent to the ulna, Morris successfully performed partial resection of both bones, the radius being divided below the insertion of the supinator brevis ; a very useful limb resulted. _ Complete excision of one or other of the bones of the forearm has occa- sionally been practised with advantage, leaving a sufficiently useful limb with good power in the hand. Carnochan of New York and Jones of Jersey have successfully excised the whole ulna. In a case recorded by Weist (U.S.), nearly the whole ulna was removed on account of a gunshot wound. Care was taken to preserve as much as possible of the periosteum ; and reproduction of the bone, forming a very useful limb, had taken place at the end of a year. ±5utcs of Virginia has removed the whole radius. In a woman who was under my care about twenty years ago, I also successfully resected the whole radius With the exception of its articular head, which was sound (Fig. 557) • and a