^44 HERNIA. mass; for if the hernia have been put back in the usual way thesar.„ i, ™-.ly be left in the canal, and will preserve its usual relatS Ti l supposition will be strengthened almost to a certainty if it be found i the condensed cellular capsule immediately investing the sac," as it is Termed hL. r K ''^f J. ' ^^'^^"^tod subserous areolar tissue-has been left m the canal. An opening made into this will as 11 a Surgeon observes allow the iinger to be brought into contact with th'e heS tumour Itself. Should, however, this condensed areolar tissue not be fbuud It must not be concluded that no hernia is present, inasmuch as this inve t ment may have been accidentally absent. The finger should then be passed into the mternal ring, which will probably be found open, and should be carried from side to side ; the tumour, if present, will be detected lyine externally to the peritoneum behind the abdominal wall. When found it must be brought down into the canal by enlarging the ring ; it must then be opened, its contents examined, and the stricture in its neck divided The intestine that has been so strangled must be dealt with in accordance with the rules to be subsequently laid down. If the tumour cannot be readily brou^jit down so as to allow of an examination of it and its contents, firm pressure may be made upon the abdomen, so as to cause it to protrude. If it still do not come down, it must be opened, and the stricture cautiously divided within the abdomen with a sheathed bistoury. Should the hernia not have been reduced in mass, the sac should be opened and possibly a small knuckle of gut may be found gripped at the inner ring' which, if not gangrenous, may be reduced. If the sac be empty the wound may be sufficiently enlarged upwards to allow an examination of the parts about the neck of the sac, where possibly a band or adhesion may be found by the division of which the obstruction may be relieved. If nothing be found the coil of intestine near the neck of the sac may be drawn out and examined. If this be gangrenous it must be treated by the formation of an artificial anus or by resection (see p. 853). Should the gut be only congested and swollen it may be returned into the abdomen in the hope that it will gradually recover. In two cases at University College Hospital in which this treatment was adopted, nothing but a coil of congested paralysed intestine was found, and com- plete recovery followed ; in each case the operation might have been avoided if it had been possible to recognize from the symptoms the actual condition ■which existed. If the condition of the gut be so bad that the possibility of recovery seems doubtful the lower end of the wound may be left open, and the chance thus given to the patient of the formation of an artificial anus if sloughing of the intestine occur ; a result that I have more than once witnessed about the fourth or fifth day, the patient ultimately recovering. In the case of a femoral hsrnia the first part of the treatment is the same, but if nothing be found in the crural canal to account for the symptoms the wound cannot be conveniently extended upwards so as to open the abdominal cavity. If, therefore, it be determined to explore the inner aspect of the ring, this may be done by an incision at the outer border of the rectus or in the middle line. An alternative treatment in the cases under consideration consists in pro- ceeding at once to a median laparotomy below the umbilicus. From such an incision it is possible to examine both inguinal and femoral, and even the obturator openings without difficulty ; and in cases where the diagnosis is