12 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. remaining half retains its normal position unaltered. Consequently signs of contraction during treatment may be taken to indicate that the growth has been successfully destroyed in part at least. The course of the disease is always progressive : more rapid in the skin, more slow in the bones and less vascular tissues, as those of a cartilaginous and fibroid character—the pinna of the ear, the sclerotic, and the septum of the nose, for instance. When it attacks bones, it penetrates deeply into their softer parts. Moore has noticed that the moi-bid growth in tlie advancing edge of the disease is always most clearly marked in cancellated bone—in the diploe, for example. '^Phe soft parts immediately contiguous to the disease are perfectly healthy and uninfiltrated ; and there is never, even after many years' duration, any sign of secondary affection of the lymphatic glands. Unless the progress of the disease be arrested by treatment, it is never interrupted, but will end in the death of the patient. This fatal termina- tion may, however, be long delayed. The accompanying Fig. 418 is from a patient of mine who had suffered from the disease for nearly thirty years, but who was to all ap- pearance in perfect health, although the skull was perfo- rated, the dura mater exposed, and the pulsations of the brain distinctly visible. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis has to be made from Epitheli- oma, Syphilis, and Lupus. The distinction from ordinary epithelioma is often at first difficult ; but in the later stages the absence of glandular affection, the small amount of growth compared to the ulceration, and the prolonged course of the case, render the diagnosis easy. From tertiary stjpMIis it is clearly distinguished by the duration of the case ; in syphilitic ulceration " the rate of destruction is measured by weeks ; in rodent cancer by years." There is also an absence of all other signs of constitutional syphilis. From ordinary lupus it is distinguished by the age and healthy constitutional state of the patient, by the singleness of the ulcer, and the absence of the pink, scaly, or ojdematous skin frequently found around lupus. Lupus may cicatrize and cease at any time ; rodent ulcer never does. Lupus never causes death ; rodent ulcer is always fatal eventually, if unrelieved by treatment. ^, . .11 Pathology.—The microscopic characters of the mfiltratmg gro^^th have been examined by Moore, Ilulke, Collins Warren, Colcott Fox, Tliin and others All are agTced that it is composed of groups or columns of cells ot an epithelial type filling spaces in a very imperfectly developed connective Pi} . 410.—RodeBt Uicer (30 diams.), vertical section. The tieneral arrangemeut of the large cell-masses is shown; tlie thinned surface-epithelium can still be traced over the growth.