572 DISEASES OP THE SCALP AND SKULL. manner analogous to tluit which has followed drainage f.r tuberculous pentomtis A case recorded by Waterhouse and Wallis Ord is c ,S hopeful. A child aged live years was the subject of an acute characterized by fever, headache, double optic neurilis, and the cWt "hydrocephahc cry " The diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis was m d and It was deeded to drain the subarachnoid space through a trephine opening in the cerebellar fossa. The operation was followed by complete recovery and subsidence of the optic neuritis. Operations on the Brain.-Since the clinical and pathological observa. tions and the experimental inquiries of Broca, Hughlings Jackson, flitzie terrier ana others, have made it possible to diagnose the exact seat of n.anv tumours and other lesions within the cranium, and the development of anti- septic surgery has enabled the Surgeon to operate on the brain substance with comparative safety, many such procedures have been undertaken Tiie general subject of localisation of the functions of the brain has already been sufficiently alluded to in the Chapter on Injuries of the Head (Vol. I. p 7.03) The special symptoms of the diseases for which the operations hLve been undertaken belong rather to medicine than surgery, and cannot be fully described here. ^ Operations upon the brain have been undertaken for the removal of morbid growths, for the relief of epilepsy, and for abscess of the brain. MorUd (jroivths of ike brain are either syphilitic or tuberculous, or true tumours, the most frequent form of true tumour being the glioma (Vol. 1., p. 1037). Sarcomata of various kinds are occasionally met with. True cancer is rare, and only occurs as a secondary growth._ Psammoma of the dura mater (Vol. I., p. 104,-)) may also cause pressure on the brain. All the tumours except the psammoma as a rule implicate the surrounding brain tissue, being seldom accurately circumscribed. The general symptoms of an intracranial tumour may be briefly summarised as signs of irritation or impaired function in that part of the brain in which the new growth is situated, with fixed and persistent headache. Vomiting is a common symiDtora, and optic neuritis is almost constantly present when the tumour is situated in the substance of the brain. When the growth affects the cortical centres epileptiform seizures are common, and the fit commences by spasm of the part in connexion with the centre implicated. In considering the possibility of removal of a tumour of the brain the situation of the growth is of the first importance. It must be so seated that it can safely be exposed by trephining the skull. Tumours at the base, or deeply seated in the brain, are evidently beyond surgical inter- ference. If the paralysis is very extensive the growth is implicating so wide an area that its removal probably could not be accompHshed or would speedily be followed by recurrence. The nature of the tumour must in many cases be uncertain, but, if it can be ascertained, has an important influence on the question of operation. Tuberculous growths are often multiple, and thus unsuitable for operation ; if, however, the symptoms point to the tumour being single, its removal may be attempted. In 1886 Horsley removed a tuberculous tumour successfully ; the child died six years later of genito- urinary tuberculosis, and the brain was found quite sound. Syphilitic gum- mata frequently disappear under proper treatment, but not necessarily the symptoms, which may be due to chronic inflammatory changes around the growth. In all cases of doubtful nature a thorough trial should be given to