l^(niINAL HERNIA, very considerable success The principle of this operation consisted in tbo agina jon of the sac of the hernia, and tlie approximation of the structut Wng the bonndar,es of the inguinal canal, by the application of a ^ cutaneous suture of tendon or wire through a small opening in the skin An ingenious modification of Wood's operation was devised by Dunnett Spanton who, mstead of approximating the walls of the canal by a subcutaueo^ suture, used an mstrument like a cork-screw, the point of which was intr^ duced through the skm at the upper end of the canal, and was made to p ss downwards through its opposite walls so as to draw them together lustrument was left in for about a week, till some inflammatory swelling w perceptible around it. Since the introduction of the antiseptic treatment o wounds these complicated subcutaneous methods have lost all the advantages which they once possessed, and at the present day the only operation which can be recommended is that known as the oimi method-2. revival of the old operation of ligaturing the neck of the sac and cutting it away. In 1871 Lister reported two cases in which he cut down upon a hernial sac and closed the abdominal opening with catgut sutures. Experience, however, showed that suture of the ring, alone was not enough to efiect a cure. Since then Banks, Annandale, Czerny, Ball, Macewen, and many others have devised various proceedings having the common object of obliterating the neck of the -sac and narrowing the dilated ring. , Operation.—The operation as performed by Mitchell Banks may be taken as a type, and the various modifications of other operators may be subse- quently noticed. The operation is thus performed : The whole area having been cleaned with soap and water, followed by turpentine to remove grease, and spirit to remove the turpentine, is covered with a towel soaked in carbolic lotion (1 in 20) for an hour before the operation. A free incision is then made, reaching from about one inch above the external abdominal ring to near the bottom of the sac. The dissection is then carefully can-ied down to . the sac, all bleeding vessels being secured as they are cut, and great care, being taken that the sac itself i& exposed in the whole length of the wound, and that one of the coverings be not mistaken for it. The sac is then very carefully dissected out with as little damage to the scrotal tissues as possible. It will usually be found to be slightly adherent to the tunica vaginalis, requiring some careful dissection to separate it. The cord must be early sought for and .separated from the sac. The vas deferens can easily be recognized by its _cord-like feel, and must be kept in view during the whole operation. The •sac being completely separated, is emptied of its contents if they are reducible, and opened to make sure that it is really empty. If omentum is present in the sac and is irreducible, either from its size or from the presence of adhesions, it must be cut away in the manner already described (p. 856), and the pedicle reduced into the abdominal cavity. The sac is then drawn well down and ligatured as high up as possible, so that the inner aspect of the peritoneum may be smooth and not present a pouch, which might favour the formation of a fresh hernia. The ligature may be of chromic catgut or of fine carbolised silk. The sac below the ligature is then cut away. The next step in the operation is to close the pillars of the ring by sutures. These must be introduced by means of a curved needle guided by the finger passed into the canal. The sutures should get a firm hold on each side of the ring, and three or four may be required, according to the size of the aperture. While j)assing