174 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. After the operation the patient should be propped up iu bed with the head forwards iu order to prevent any strain upon the artery, liest can be still more perfectly secured by applying a leather splint moulded before the opera- tion to reach from the loins to the back of the head, and to overlap the shonlders. It can be put on immediately after the operation, and worn for the first two weeks. Ligature of the Carotid betoiv llie Omo-liyoid becomes necessary if the aneurism have attained a very considerable size, extending low in the neck, and not leaving perhaps more than one inch of clear space above the clavicle. The operation is best performed by dividing the sternal head of the sterno- mastoid close to its origin. A V-s^iaped incision must be made, one limb of which corresponds to the lower two inches of the inner border of the sterno- mastoid, and the other to the inner two inches of the clavicle. The incisions are deepened till the muscle comes into view ; the inner head is then divided and turned up in the V-shaped flap. The second rallying point is the edge of the sterno-hyoid. While searching for this, care must be taken not to wound the anterior jugular vein which crosses the muscle transversely on its way to join the external jugular. When the edge of the muscle is found, it may be drawn on one side with a spatula, or if necessary, notched. The BCerno-thyroid scarcely requires division. The sheath of the vessels now comes into view, and must be cautiously opened, the Surgeon keeping carefully to the tracheal side so as to avoid the vein. There is usually a wide interval between the artery and the vein and nerve on the right side ; on the left side more care is required, as the vein most commonly overlaps the artery. After ligature of the common carotid the permanent collateral supply is not afforded by any of the branches of the corresponding vessel of the opposite side, but by the subclavian artery of the same side. In a case related by Porter, in which the right carotid had been tied, the subclavian and vertebral arteries on the same side were enlarged to at least double their natural size, and the chief communications outside the skull took place between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, which were enlarged ; whilst inside the cranium the vertebral took the place of the internal carotid. Immediately after the operation the blood may be so freely conveyed to the distal side of the vessel, by the free communication between the arteries of opposite sides, both within and without the cranium, that a speedy return of pulsation in the sac is of common occurrence. This condition, however, usually disappears after a time by the gradual consolidation of the tumour, and indeed may generally be looked upon as a favourable sign ; being very seldom associated with those cerebral symptoms which, as will immediately be explained, commonly prove fatal after this operation. Occasionally the pulsation continues, and the tumour gradually increases in size in spite of the occlusion of the mam ^^"^l^ppuration of the sac is not of very uncommon occurrence after the ligature of the carotid for aneurism—sometimes even after so considerable an interval as eight months, as happened in a case related by Post. In the majority of these instances, the patient eventually does well ; but death may result by the tumour pressing upon the pharynx and larynx, or by the occurrence of secondary hjBmorrhage, which may take place either from the part o which the ligature has been appHed, or from the suppurating sac. In the first