ANEURISM. 114 fact that it has happened to such Surgeons as Desault, Pelletan, Dupuytren, Pirogoff, and many others. I have once seen this accident (jccur to a Surgeon of considerable experience, who, mistaking a dilfused popliteal aneurism for an abscess, opened it with a bistoury, but finding no pus, applied a poultice ; alarming hemorrhage ensued in about forty hours, and I amputated the thigh on the second day after this untoward occurrence. This difficulty in diagnosis is especially apt to occur in aneurisms which, having become diffused, have ceased to pulsate, have no bruit, are elastic, softened, and diifluent to the feel, and in which the skin has become reddened and inflamed by pressure from within. It is only by careful attention to the history of the case, and by skilful manipulation, that the true nature of the tumour can be made out. But an aneurism may actually become associated with an abscess in one of two ways. Thus it may suppurate, the inflammation taking place in the areolar tissue around it, with swelling, redness, oedema, and heat of the integumental structures, increase of size in the tumour, and probably solidification of it. If this abscess be opened or allowed to burst, dark grumous pus will escape, followed by coagula and masses of decolorized fibrin, and sometimes accompanied, but more usually followed after a lapse of some hours, by a free and perhaps fatal arterial haemorrhage. Another form of combination between abscess and aneurism consists in the opening of an artery by ulceration into the cavity of an abscess, so that the blood is projected directly into this from the opened vessel. In cases of this kind—of which the instance that occurred to Liston is a good example— we have the ordinary signs of abscess, usually of a chronic character, to which those of an aneurism are generally superadded suddenly, with great increase in the bulk of the tumour. This accident has been observed chiefly in abscess of the neck, opening up a communication with the carotid artery. With rheumatism and neuralgia it would at first sight appear to be difficult to confound an aneurism, but in practice it is not so. I have known several cases in which the lancinating pains of aneurism, more especially when the tumour was internal, have been mistaken for rheumatic or neuralgic affections; and I have even known the pain occasioned by the presence of a large aneurism; of the thigh treated for several weeks as rheumatism. In a large proportion of popliteal aneurisms the patient first presents himself for rheumatic pains in the knee ; in fact so frequently is this the case that it is a good rule whenever a patient complains of obscure pain in that joint, -to examine the ham for au- aneurism as the first step towards making a diagnosis. In such cases as these, it, is of course obvious that a little care and proper examination will usually enable the Surgeon to avoid an error. The aneurismal may be distinguished from the rheumatic pain by its having a twofold character—being both lancinating and paroxysmal, as well as continuous, aching, and burning. When this kind of pain is persistent, especially about the back, the side of the head and neck, or the arm, it ought always to call the Surgeon's attention to the condition of the neighbouring large vessels. ( Terminations.—Spontaneous Cure of an aneurism is very rare, but th^ | pathology of this process is of considerable interest, from its bearing upon thaf cure of the disease by operation. The spontaneous cure may accidentally^ though very rarely, occur by inflammation of the aneurism and consequent • obliteration of the artery (see Suppuration of Sac). Broca believed that it might occur as the result of inflammation around the sac without suppuration.