DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. I 106 CHAPTER LXIX. DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. CONGENITAL MALFORMATION. Extroversion of the Bladder, consisting in an absence of the anterior wall of the organ, with deficiency in the con-esponding part of the abdominal parietes, is a congenital malformation occasionally met with. It may occur in either sex, but is more common in males. This condition consists in an arrest of development, in consequencic of which the anterior part of the pelvic girdle is deficient, the bodies of the pubic bones being imperfectly developed and the symphysis absent. The recti muscles separate at their lowest part, and pass obliquely outwards to be inserted into the lateral abutments of the pubic bones. A triangular space i^ thus left, which is filled up by the posterior wall of the bladder, which is con- tinuous with the common integuments, the anterior wall being absent. The ' cleft commonly extends up to the spot at which the umbilical cord entere, so that the \imbilicus is wanting. The posterior wall of the bladder,- being pushed forwards by the pressure of the abdominal viscera behind, forms a prominent mass, the surface of which is composed of red, vascular mucous membrane ; at its lowest part the orifices of the ureters will be seen discharg- ing urine in constant drops. For a full description of the mechanism of the passage of the urine in this malformation, I would rel'er to a case which fell under my notice, and in which I made a number of experiments on the rapidity of the passage of foreign matters through the kidneys ; it is reported in the Medical Gazette of 1845. The penis is cleft along its dorsal aspect, exposing the floor of the urethra, forming the condition known as epispadias. The scrotum is imperfectly developed, and the testicles usually do not enter it, but remain in the inguinal canals or just outside the external abdominal rings. This malformation is of a most distressing kind. The exposed mucous membrane of the bladder becomes inflamed and irritated, and the constant soaking of the clothes with decomposing urine renders the patient an anuoy- ance to himself and to all around him. Death may result from extension of inflammation up the ureters to the kidneys. Treatment.—Up to a comparatively recent period the only treatment for ectopia vesicae consisted in the application of a properly constructed instru- ment to collect the urine. A hollow shield is strapped over the part, and is connected by means of a tube with an india-rubber bottle, which is attached along the inside of the thigh. Of late years, however, operations have been devised and practised with the view of covering in the exposed surface of the bladder, so as to prevent the pain and irritation arising from contact of the clothes with it, and, by giving a proper conduit to the urine, to which an