856 HERNIA. constitute the real stricture, continuing to strangulate the gut after th division of the structures outside and in the neck of the sac they muJ necessarily be divided. This operation requires great care, lest the nei.rh bouring intestine be wounded. It is best done by passing a director undei ueath, and cutting the bands through with a probe-pointed bistoury • or i( this cannot be done on account of their connexions, they must be seize,] with forceps, and carefully dissected off tlie gut. In a case of large inguiual hernia, containing both gut and omentum, on which I once operated J found, after dividing the stricture, and taking hold of the omentum' in order to push back the intestine, that this could not be done. On drawin-r the mass well down, I found high up, in the part corresponding to tl^. neck of the sac, a band like a piece of whipcord, stretching across from the omentum to the mesentery and firmJy tying down the gut. On dissectin<^ this through, the constricted portion of intestine subjacent to it sprang up to its full diameter, and was then very readily reduced. Management of Omentum.—According to the condition of the omentum it may be returned into the abdomen or excised, but under no circumstances should it be left in the sac. A small piece of healthy omentum, even though it be congested, may safely be reduced. If it is gangrenous it must of couree never be returned into the abdomen, nor is reduction advisable when the omentum is indurated, congested or otherwise altered in structure. In such cases inflammation of it—Epiplo'itis—is likely to occur, and may prove fatal from peritonitis. So also if the omentum is acutely inflamed, the inflamma- tion is very liable to run on into a sloughy condition of the whole mass. If it is adherent to the sac, it should be excised and then either separated from the sac or removed with it. ■ In excising omentum it should be drawn down until a healthy unaltered part is reached, and then tied in several pieces with fine silk. Xone of the ligatures should be cut short until all are tied, and the omentum cut away. The stump must then be reduced just within the ring, as the constriction of this may be arresting the bleeding from an imperfectly secured vessel. If no blood flows out, the stump is drawn out again, and the ligatures cut short and allowed to retract with the stump of the omentum into the abdomen. Sacs or Apertures in the Omentum are occasionally met with, in which a knuckle of intestine may become enveloped, or by the margins of which it may be strangulated. These envelopes of omentum around the gut, which were especially described by Prescott Hewett, may occur in all kinds of hernia, at least in the inguinal, the femoral, and the umbilical, and sometimes attain a large size, completely shutting in the gut. They appear to be formed in some cases at least by the adhesion of the opposite edges of floating layei^s of omentum around a piece of intestine, which thus becomes included. It is of importance to bear in mind the possibility of their existence, and in all cases to unravel the omentum before removing it, lest it contain a knuckle of intestine, which might be wounded in the operation. Cysts, usually containing pellucid serous fluid, straw-coloured or reddened, but sometimes filled with blood, are occasionally met with in the omentum. They appear to be formed in the same way as the sacs containing intestine just described, except that they are enclosed on all sides, their serous contents being merely exudations from the peritoneal lining of the cyst. They are globular, elastic, and closely resemble in form a knuckle of intestine, occasioning