SPECIAL ANEURISMS. striking contmsfc with that for spontaneous aneurism ; tlie four cases recorded aii proving fatal, two dying of gangrene, and two of hsemorrhage. In these cases (nithrie recommended that tlie tumour should be laid open, and the artery ligatured above and below the ajjerture in it. iJuring the operation the artery may readily be commanded above the seat of disease by the applica- lon of the abdominal tourniquet, either to the aorta or to the common iliac at the brim of the pelvis. Aneurism occasionally forms in the groin and Jumi of the same side; here the ligature of the external iliac will cure both diseases. Of four cases in which this condition was present, the operation was successful in three ; one patient died of gangrene, a popliteal aneurism being on the point of bursting at the time of the operatioa. In two of the three cases that recovered, pulsation returned m the inguinal aneurism, but disappeared after a time. Ligature of the Common Iliac—This artery was first tied in 1812 by Gibson m a case of gunshot injury, the patient dying of peritonitis and secondary haemorrhage on the thirteenth day. The great American Surgeon, Mott, was the first who tied it for aneurism, the patient making a good recovery. If the aneurism in the groin extend so high that there is not sufficient space for the exposure and ligature of the external iliac artery, it becomes necessary to tie the common trunk. The most important points in the relations of the vessel are the following. The ordinary jDlace of division of the abdominal aorta is on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, or on the intervertebral disk below it; according to Quain, this was the case in four-fifths of the bodies he examined, or in lb(> out of 196. In regard to the relations between the situation of the bifurcation of the aorta and the crest of the ilium, we find it, according to the same anatomist, to have ranged in about four-fifths of the cases between half an inch above and below the level of the highest point of this part of the bone. With reference to the umbilicus, no definite rule can be laid down ; but it may be stated broadly that the bifurcation of the aorta is a little to its left. As a general rule, that given by Hargrave is perhaps sufficiently good for ordinary purposes. If a point be taken about half or three-quarters of an inch below and a little to the left of the umbilicus, and a line be drawn on each side fi-om this to another point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine, we obtain about the direction of the common and external iliac arteries. On dividing these lines into three equal parts, the upper third wiU correspond to the common trunk, and the lower two-thirds to the external iliac, and the junction of the upper with the middle third to the bifurcation of the common iliac artery. The point of bifurcation of the common iliac artery is, in the majority of cases, opposite the lumbo-sacral articulation ; and if it be not in this situation the division will probably be lower down. The length of the vessel varies greatly; according to Quain, in five-sevenths of the cases it ranged between one-and-a-half and three inches. The artery lies at the brim of the pelvis. The veins on the two sides differ in their relation to the arteries. The left vein lies to the inner side of the left artery, and then passes beneath the right common iliac artery to join the right vein in forming the vena cava inferior. On the right side the vein is at first beneath and then to the outer side. The common iliac artery is crossed by the ureter near its lower end.