• ^76 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE OENERATIVE OHOANS. will usually cure the condition ! and this the mori. snmW if f,ii„ ii. t ■, some cases evea constituting a tumour of considerable size Under su S c rcnmstances, excision of the abnormal clitoris with the help of Pa^meS cautery may be necessary on account of the irritation caused by it. R mova of a ..nm^ chtons as a means of cure in cases of epilepsy and^of erotomania a procedure as unscientific as would be that of remov ng the glans peds the cure of similar atftctions in the male. The operation, at one ZeTco mended and practised, has been proved by the experience of the profes ion o r/Z/T as it is unscientific in its principle. LrlTma ^ the Chtons requires excision of the diseased organ, to be followed by a free application ot the cautery. ^ The most common affection of the meatus urinarius is that known as urethral caruncle or vascular growth, the treatment for which ha. been described elsewhere (Vol. II., p. 1185). Perinaeal Abscess, occurring as a result of chill or of local injury, requires eaiy mcision with a view to avoiding burrowing of pus and possible formation or hstula. Rupture of the Perinaeum, caused by the passage of the child's head during parturition, is an accident of not unfrequent occurrence in the case of pnmiparse. The after-importance of the injury, from a surgical point of view, depends upon the extent and depth of the laceration. If merely the soft tissues between the posterior commissure of the vulva and the margin of the anus have been torn through, the rupture is styled incomplete; and the necessity for subsequent surgical interference will depend somewhat upon the co-existence of any prolapse of the posterior vaginal wall. Should this com- plication be present, a plastic operation for the repair of the torn perinaeum and the restoration of the parts to their normal condition is the proper treat- ment to adopt. In cases where the laceration has extended onwards through the anal sphincter muscle, the condition is described as one of complete rupture —a much more serious state of things than that above alluded to, and one which imperatively demands surgical interference in consequence of the loss of control over the lower bowel involved by the injury. For a detailed descrip- tion of the operation for repair of ruptured perineum, the reader is referred to Vol. I., p. 898. Prolapse of the anterior or of the posterior wall of the vagina is not un- frequently met with in hospital practice. In either instance the condition usually originates in continued neglect on the part of the patient with regard to regularity in emptying the bladder or the lower bowel respectively. Unless proper means be adopted to rectify the tendency to prolapse by due regulation of the patient's habits, combined with the use of astringent injections or pes- saries and the wearing of some suitable form of " support," the condition may become extremely troublesome owing to gradual implication of the floor of the bladder in the prolapse of the anterior vaginal wall {cystocele), or of the rectum in the case of a protrusion of the posterior wall of the passage {rectocele). The two conditions not uncommonly coexist in varying degree in cases of uterine prolapse.