INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. or completely obstructs the passage of faeces, death inevitably results sooner oi- later. If the strangulation is tight enough to cause gangrene, adhesions mav form between the upper part of the entering tube and the rellection between the sheath and the reflected tube, the gangrenous intussusceptum may be cast off into the bowel, and recovery take place. Unfortunately, the patient usually perishes from exhaustion before this is accorapHshed. The Causes of intussusception have given rise to much discussion, but the most reasonable view seems to be that the invagination commences as the result of irregular peristaltic action of the intestine. Nothnagel experimentallv demonstrated this in the rabbit's intestine. He showed that the application of a powerful electric current to a portion of the gut caused a contraction extending- a short distance below the point stimulated, and a considerable distance above it. At the same time the uncontracted bowel below rose up over the lower ead of the contracted part, thus/giving rise to limited intussusception. He also obtained somewhat similar results by paralysing a portion of the gut by crushing, but it is improbable that anything analogous to this occurs in the production of intussusception in the human subject. When the invagination has once commenced, the intussusceptum is passed on by the contraction of the bowel, like a mass of faeces or a foreign body. That in-egular peristaltio action is the probable cause is further supported by the fact that in children it is sometimes due to the irritation of worms or the straining accompanying' dysenteric diarrhoea. The intussusceptions of the dying, so commonly found in post-mortem examinations, are also probably the result of irregular peristaltic movements immediately preceding death. They are often multiple, and occur with equal frequency in the upward and downward direction. In. adults the invagination occasionally commences at the seat of a tumour. ' Special Symptoms of Acute Intussusception.—The invasion is usually sudden, the patient feehng that something has gone wrong internally. In an infant there is usually screaming, evidently from severe pain. The symptoms of obstruction then develop. Vomiting soon sets in, but is not very severe, and rarely becomes stercoraceous till a late period unless the intussusception is in the jejunum. The pain is griping in character and intermittent. In almost all cases there is marked tenesmus, with the passage of blood and mucus from the bowel. This is one of the most important and characteristic symptoms. There is little or no distension of the abdomen, and the coils of intestine are not visible. The degree of collapse varies. In extreme cases the patient ha& been known to die in less than 24 hours from shock. More commonly it is not severe except in very young infants. In subacute cases the obstruction may not at first be complete ; in fact, there may even be some diarrhoea, but this is rare. On examination of the abdomen, if necessary with the help of an ansesthetic, a tumour can usually be felt at the seat of disease. It is sausage- hke in form, doughy to the feel, and becomes tense under manipulation from the peristaltic contraction of the gut composing it. It is tender, and the hardening during manipulation is accompanied by some griping pain. If the case be watched from the beginning, the tumour will be found to change its position as the invagination progresses : thus, when beginning at the ileo-CKcal valve, it will at first be felt in the right iliac fossa, subsequently ni the umbilical region, and often at last in the left iliac fossa. If the intussusception be ileo-cfBcal, or of the great intestine, it often descends low enough to be teiti by passing the finger into the rectum, and not unfrequently it protrudes from