looo SECONDARY UISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. catheterisra.^^r^^^^^^ some cases the dilaLation of the vessels is preceded bj a contraction of longer or shorter duration, giving rise to the surres^on noted above In a healthy kidney such an Attack'of acut^ l eZ^::' passes oft and does no harn. ; but, supposing the kidney to be already diseas d ^le subacute condition may readily become acute and terminale fatally' Repeated attacks of such hyperasmia, which probably result from the irritation of a stone, oi- passing urine through a bad stricture, would in all probability alone be sutticient to lead to a chronic interstitial change in the kidney It IS a matter of obseryation that fatal affections of the kidney scarcely ever result from operations performed on the penile portion of the urethra 3. The presence of Septic Matter in the Pelvis of the Kidney- lliis plays the most important part in producing the final acute condition which_ so often kills the patient. In the first place, the mere presence of so irritating a substance as ammoniacal urine in the pelvis of a kidney already diseased would certainly intensify the existing inflammation. It seems probable, however, that in many cases the septic matter thus pent up at some degree of pressure (for the thick mixture of mucus, pus, and urine cannot pass the valves of the ureter, already somewhat obstructed by the swollen mucous membrane and perhaps by a hypertrophied or distended bladder, so readily as healthy urine) becomes absorbed by the lymphatics of the kidney, and thus gives rise to a diffuse intertubular inflammation rapidly running on to suppuration. This would account for the pale streaks seen running in many cases parallel to the straight tubules in the pyramids, and expanding in the cortex. The presence of the micrococci in the tubules may also be taken as evidence that the decomposition of the urine may extend far into the kidney substance from the pelvis. Probably this condition alone is sufficient to account for many cases of acute suppurative nephritis, but it must be remembered that suppuration of the kidney does occur, occasionally, in cases in which the urine in the pelvis is free from decomposition. George Johnson suggests that the scattered abscesses may occasionally be due to rupture of the tubules and local extravasations of urine, and Goodliart has suce-ested the possible connexion between erysipelas and suppuration of the kidney. The most important observations on this point are, however, those published by J. Lindsay Steven. He confirmed the statement of Ludwig that the super- ficial lymphatics of the kidney are continuous with those of the ureter, and these again with the lymphatics of the bladder. By forcibly injecting the ureter the coloured fluid can be made to pass into the lymphatic vessels on the surface of the kidney, and to a certain extent into the intertubular tissue of the cortex. It is easy to understand, therefore, how micro-organisms and their products can find their way from a diseased pelvis or ureter to the cortical surface of the kidney without passing up the urinary tubules, and also that in ulceration of the mucous membrane from septic cystitis a similar extension may take place from the bladder to the cortex of the kidney without the mucous membrane being seriously implicated. This explains those cases in which multiple abscesses are found in the cortex of the kidney without foul urine being present in the ureter and pelvis. Steven confirmed his views by demonstrating the micrococci in a case of septic cystitis with suppurating kidney, in the superficial lymphatics of the bladder, ureter, and in the capsule and cortex of the kidney. Symptoms of Kidney Disease in Surgical Affections of the Genito-