4 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Lupus Erythematosus.—This disease was originally described as an afifectiou of Lite sebaceous follicles. Hebra in 184;") gave it the name of Sebor- rhoca Congestiva. It is now generally known by the name of Lupus Erythe- matosus. It consists essentially in a chronic inflammation, affecting chiefly the sebaceous follicles and the tissues immediately surrounding them. There is an increased secretion of sebaceous matter from the follicle by which the acini of the gland become dilated and the duct widened. The parts immediately surrounding the follicle show the ordinary signs of chronic inflammation, the capillaries being dilated and the tissues infiltrated with small round cells. The disease terminates in destruction of the follicles, and the chronic in- flammatory products partly degenerate and are absorbed, and partly become developed into cicatricial tissue. The circumscribed variety of the disease is the most common. It usually commences as small red spots, isolated or in groups, and varying in size from a pin's head to a split pea. Each spot soon becomes covered by an adherent scale which is greasy to the touch. If the scale be removed it is found to be continuous with a plug of altered sebaceous matter filling the dilated duct of a sebaceous gland. These separate spots gradually coalesce into a sharply defined red patch, the colour of which disappears almost entirely on pressure. The redness is most marked around the orifices of the sebaceous fohicles. The patches itch slightly, but are not actually painful. As the disease advances they slowly increase in size at the circumference, while the central parts become paler, slightly depressed, and cicatricial—the thin scar tissue being dry Hke parchment and often scaly. There is no tendency to suppuration or ulceration. Lupus erythematosus is most common on the cheeks and nose ; it tends to spread symmetrically and often after a period of many months the patch assumes a characteristic butterfly shape, a large patch on each cheek being connected by a narrow strip on the nose. The disease may occur also on the ears, hps, scalp, and the backs of the hands. It runs an extremely chronic course, often lasting many years, and causing great disfigurement. It has a o-reat tendency to relapse after apparent cure. Attacks of erysipelas are not uncommon durins- its progress. The disease is much more common in females than in males. ^According to Crocker it occurs chiefly between the ages of eio-hteen and forty-five years, that is to say, beyond the age at which the onset of lupus vulgaris is common. No satisfactory cause of the disease has yet been discovered, and, although according to some observers there is not unfrequently a family history of phthisis, there is no evidence to shew that the inflammation of the skin is tuberculous. Tubercle bacilh have not been demonstrated, and inoculation has given negative results. The disease is not hereditary or contagious. ■, t j n,-. Trecdmeni.-^o drug has any specific influence on the disease and the constitutional treatment therefore consists merely in attending to the genera health on ordinary principles. Locally, Kaposi has found ^h^/^PP ;f Emplastrum Hydrargyri a most efficient mode of treatm nt ; P^^^^e^ conains mercury 5 iv, turpentine 5 i.b J el low wax 5n], and lead P^^^t^r The surface maybe cleaned before its apphcation by being smeared with oil and weU washed with soft soap. The plaster should be spread thickly on thin fTnen and changed daily. Strong caustics are not to be recommended and he results obtained by the application of superficial escharotics have not been