SACBO-ILIAC DISEASE: DIAGNOSIS. 407 instances, however, an extensive abscess may form without any alteration, of the normal outline of the spine, whilst caries affecting the hollow of the sacrum may lead to the formation of an intrapelvic abscess exactly agreeing in situation with those due to sacro-iliac disease. In the case of disease of the sacrum the presence of the abscess may be the only symptom; and whereas in lumbar caries there will generally be found more or less fixation of the part with perhaps tenderness on percussion over the affected region, yet these signs also may be absent. Under these circumstances the exclusion of sacro-iliac disease will depend upon the absence of the characteristic symj)toms of this affection —pain, swelling over the joint, and displacement of the side of the pelvis witli elongation of the limb on the affected side. 4. Disease of the Tivp-joint is the affection most easily confounded with sacro-iliac disease, and that from which it is of most importance to dis- tinguish it. It is especially from that variety of hip-disease which com- mences in the acetabulum, primarily involves the pelvic bones, and only secondarily implicates the joint, that it is difficult to distinguish sacro-iliac disease ; and the importance of recognising the nature of the case is great when we reflect that an error in diagnosis might lead to the performance of an unnecessary operation on the hip-joint. The diagnosis may be made by atten- tion to the following circumstances :— a. The seat of pain on pressure varies. In hip disease the patient suffers severely when pressure is made deeply in the hollow behind and above the trochanter, or against the anterior part of the hip-joint. In sacro- iliac disease, little or no pain is experienced on pressure in these situations ; but tenderness is elicited by pressing upon the sacrum and along the line of junction between that bone and the ihum, behind and altogether away from the hip. h. The movements that occasion pain are different in the two diseases. In hip disease, abduction and rotation outwards, and pressure of the head of the thigh-bone into the acetabulum, aggravate the sufferings of the patient. In sacro-iliac disease the thigh may be moved in all directions, abducted or adducted, rotated, flexed, or extended, whilst the patient is lying on his back, without any increase of suffering, provided the side of the pelvis be fixed by the Surgeon. Should this precaution not be taken, the movement impressed on the thigh will be communicated to the diseased articulation, and will necessarily cause pain. c. The signs connected with the alteration in the length of the limb differ in the two diseases. In hip disease there may be, and usually is in the advanced stages,^considerable shortening. This never occurs in sacro-iliac disease. d. The alteration of the level, and of the prominence of the two anterior superior spines, in sacro-ihac disease, may be confounded with that arising from the obliquity of the pelvis usually occurring in the early stages of coxalgia. But here also the diagnosis may be made by observing that the displace- ment of the ^bone in sacro-ihac disease is permanent, and is not'influenced by position. The obhquity of the pelvis in hip disease, giving rise to apparent elongation of the limb, is dependent on a twist in the lumbar spine, which may be rectified by placing the patient on his back, and using a httle mani- pulation. The alteration in the level of the two ilia, in sacro-iliac disease, is not modified by change of position, or by any movement that may be impressed upon the spine.