SYPHILITIC AFFECTIONS OF THE PHARYNX. 711 soon shown by the great elevation of temperature and severe constitutional disturbance. (Edema of the glottis sets in early. The disease is very fatal After death the areolar tissue around the pharynx and larynx will be found soaked in pus and sometimes gangrenous. The treatment is very unsatisfactory. Scarification of the wall of the pharynx may be of use if there is^ great cedematous swelling, after which a solution of perchloride of iron (30 per cent.) may be painted on. Heat and moisture must be applied externally. Laryngotomy or tracheotomy may be required at any moment. As long as the patient can swallow, fluid nourishment and stimulants must be freely administered. Acute Retropharyngeal Abscess is occasionally met with in young children, usually under two years of age. The suppuration occurs in the loose areolar tissue between the pharynx and the prevertebral muscles, and is independent of disease of the cervical vertebrae. Bilton Pollard, who has lately called especial attention to this affection in young children, refers to the observation of Edmund Simon, that the plexus of lymphatics in the retropharyngeal tissue terminates in two lymphatic glands which lie one on each side of the middle Kne. The view that the suppuration commences in these glands secondarily to some unhealthy condition of the neighbouring raucous surfaces is a very probable one ; and is supported, as Pollard points 1 out, by the unilateral position of the pus in most cases ; whilst the age at which acute retropharyngeal abscess is common harmonises with Simon's statement that the glands disappear after the third year. The symptoms are fever with considerable constitutional disturbance, interference with deglutition and respiration, alteration in the voice, and glandular enlargement in the neck. On examination of the back of the pharynx with the index finger an elastic or actually fluctuating swelling will readily be detected. Treatment.—In order that the abscess may be treated aseptically, Pollard recommends that it be opened in the neck at the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid in the manner adopted in cases of chronic retropharyngeal abscess resulting from caries of the vertebree (see p. 50), care being taken that a drainage tube is introduced well into the cavity. The incision should be an inch in length,- and commence at a point on the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid an inch below the mastoid process. The objection to opening the abscess into the pharynx is not nearly so great as in cases of chronic retro- ^ pharyngeal abscess due to spinal disease, and if the symptoms are urgent this i should be done, unless the means for carrying out the other operation are at ; hand. A free vertical opening should be made with a sharp-pointed bistomy properly protected. Urgent dyspnoea is an indication for tracheotomy. Syphilitic Affections of the Pharynx have already been described (Yol. I., p. 1153). The consequences of extensive syphilitic ulceration may, however, be alluded to here, as they occasionally call for surgical interference. As the ulcers heal the pharynx may contract so that deglutition becomes difficult, fluids only being able to pass. In such cases some relief may occasionally be given by careful division of some of the tight cicatricial bands which narrow the fauces, followed by the passage of bougies. Sometimes the soft palate becomes adherent to the posterior wall of the pharynx, completely shutting off the nasal cavity. For this condition nothing can be done, as it is impossible to set the soft palate free, and an opening through it would only add to the patient's discomfort.