DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. or only a few corpiiscles can be found. Cubical cells are said to occur similar to those forming the superiicial layers of the epitheliun. lining the X he bdney, but these are not sufficiently definite for any conclusion to be d ^ n fiom them, as similar cells may be derived from other parts of the urinary t.act .e,!i fhn? 1 '''' ^^"^P'^^'"^ ^« ^bove described peis.st but the pain is more constant, though often less acute. There mav be great frequency of micturition. The urine, which remains acid, contain! a gradua ly increasing amount of pus, reaching sometimes to many ounces daily. If the several quantities of urine passed during the day be collected t may be found that the pus is variable in quantity, and may even disappear' tor a few hours, or even days, its reappearance being accompanied by some relief of the pains in the loin. Intermittent pus in acid urine may be re4rded as Rayer pointed out, as undoubted evidence of pyelitis affecting one kidney only, ihe symptoms of calculous hydronephrosis and pyonephrosis will be considered later. Diagnosis.—It is impossible to enter in detail into a consideration of the many different conditions which may simulate, or be simulated by the symp- toms of renal calculus. That the subject is one of much importance to the burgeon is best shown by the fact, which will again be referred to, that in a considerable number of cases operation has been undertaken for the removal of a suspected renal calculus which has been found not to exist. Certain alnormal condiiions of the unne, especially a high degree of acidity with an excess of uric acid or the presence of crystals of oxalate of lime, may occasion symptoms closely resembling those of renal calculus ; for this reason, before undertaking an operation for the removal of a suspected renal calculus^ it is generally wise to submit the patient to a course of medical treatment.' Among other affections of the Iddneij which may occasion symptoms resembling those of stone are certain tumours, tuberculous disease, movable kidney, inter- stitial nephritis, neuralgia, and in rare instances, the effects of an injury. Most of these conditions will be considered subsequently. West and Bowlby have published cases of granular kidney in which hsematuria was a marked symptom ; the most important features of these cases are the low specific gravity of the urine and the general condition of the arterial system. Simple neuralgia of the kidney is the only explanation forthcoming of some cases of renal pain in which operation exposes an apparently healthy organ. In con- nexion with injury it must be remembered that a stone may in this way be displaced, and so for the first time give rise to symptoms, but apart from this, Morris suggests that a neuralgic condition may be set up by the scarring in or around the kidney due to a laceration. Many affections of other aMommal viscera may simulate the symptoms of renal calculus ; among these may be mentioned gall-stones, ulcer of the stomach or duodenum, and typhlitis. On the other hand it must be remembered, as Godlee has shown, that repeated attacks of intestinal colic, accompanied by nausea, may be the most marked symptom of stone in the kidney. The pain of S2nnal caries may resemble that of renal calculus, and Wright of Manchester has recorded a case in Avhich testicular pain, increased frequency of micturition and nausea were probably caused by the pressure of a small abscess upon the kidney itself. Lastly, it has already been mentioned that irritability of the bladder may be so marked a symptom that the case may be mistaken for one of vesical disease, especially calculus.