1030 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. Pig. S41.—CrystaLs of Cystine. usually cause a complete disappearance of the symptoms. T'onics, especially nitric acid or nitro-hydrochloric acid and tincture of nux vomica, are olLen of use. Cystine is rarely met with in the urine. It differs from all other ingre- dients in containing a large quantity—about 2G per cent.—of sulphur. It ig very rarely seen as a sediment in the urine ; but when it occurs in this form it presents the microscopic characters seen in Fig. 841, being composed of hexagonal plates, 'i'he causes which lead to its formation are uncer- tain, but the tendency to it is often hereditary, ^a^^^^ y Calculi containing cystine are occasionally ^HBI^ y met with. Golding Bird states that in Guy's ^ Hospital museum there are eleven; and in the museum of University College are some good specimens. Thompson has removed a cystine calculus weighing 2j ounces. Cystine in calculus has a peculiar yellowish colour, be- coming green after exposure to the air, and a waxy look, quite peculiar to itself. Friction applied to its cut surface causes it to emit a smell like that of garlic. Xanthine, or Xanthic Oxide, was first noticed by Marcet, and has since been observed by Laugier, Langenbeck, and others. It is of extremely rare occurrence, and has been found in only four recorded instances in the form of calculous concretions. These have generally been of small size, with the exception of the one removed by Langenbeck, which weighed 388 grains. For a detailed account of the chemical characters and constituents of this substance, as well as of the other materials of which calculi are formed, I must refer to the w^orks of C. Bird, Beale, and Balfe. Carbonate of Lime has occasionally been met with as an amorphous powder in alkaline or very faintly acid urine. Bird states that he detected carbonate of hme as forming a distinct stratum in some phosphatic calculi; and Thudichum has examined prostatic concretions consisting almost entirely of this substance—the urinary origin of which, however, he doubts. Vesical calculi composed of carbonate of lime are certainly very rarely met with. Chemical Examination of Calculi.—For a complete account of the chemical examination of urinary calculi I must refer the reader to works on medical chemistry by C. H. Ralfe and others. The following rough tests may however, be employed for the three chief varieties, the other forms bemg -<• . j>|ace a small frao-ment on a piece of platinum foil, and hold it in the flame of a spirit lamp If it burns completely away, or at most leaves a scarcely appreciable residue, it is probably uric acid or urate of ammonium If it blackens and then leaves a white residue of the same size as the original fragment, it is either oxalate or phosphate. Then place three very small fragments on three glass slides, and add by means of a glass rod a drop o dilute M^or potass^ to ou of acetic acid to another, and of dilute hydrochloric acid to the third. f dissolves in the liquor potasses it is either uric acid or urate of ammonium: n ft dtdves in aceL ac^d and hydrochloric it is phosphate ; if it di.olve. m hydrochloric acid and not in acetic it is oxalate of hme. If it dissolves in •are that they may practically be excluded from consideration :