447 ARTIIRECTOMY oi'-TEE KNEE-JOINT. dressing, either of iodoform- or salicylie^wool'may then be applied, enveloping the knee widely on each side, and siuTOunding the splint. This may be left undisturbed till some discharge soaks; out, unless severe pain or elevation of temperature should indicate that all is not going on well. Konig strongly recommends the application of some iodoform to the inside of the joint at the operation. Leaving out of consideration those cases'in which amputation is required |, the Surgeon has, however, usually to choose between arthrectomy and excision, .i Although, in a few recorded cases, a movable joint has been obtained by I arthrectomy when the disease has been still confined to the synovial membrane, this result can practically scarcely be anticipated, and as a general rule, an J ankylosed joint in the extended position will be the most serviceable to the I patient. This result can be obtained with greater certainty if sufficient of the 1 articular surfaces of the femur and tibia is removed to allow flat bony J surfaces to be brought into apposition. This has the additional advantage of removing any partially loosened cartilage and of bringing into view any tuberculous foci which may exist in the bone beneath it. The actual shortening of the limb which this procedure causes is too small to be a serious drawback, and it may therefore be laid down as a general rule that in adults the best results will be obtained by excision. In growing children, however, the case is different, for any removal of bone may seriously interfere with the subsequent growth of the limb, which, it will be remembered, depends so largely upon the epiphysial cartilages of the lower end of the femur and the upper end of the tibia. In children, therefore, formal excision has been I largely replaced by arthrectomy, although there can be little doubt that the great advantage of unimpaired growth of the limb is obtained at a certain cost, for the complete removal of the disease is ensured with less certainty, and there is greater risk of an amount of subsequent mobility which too often leads to gradual flexion of the joint. The ideal case for arthrectomy is one in which the patient is a child and the disease purely synovial. The principle involved is that only diseased tissues are sacrificed, and in many cases this necessitates removal of large portions of the articular cartilage and the thorough scraping of tuberculous foci in the bones. In some cases, as the result of rest, the disease subsides in the greater part of the joint, and only in a certain portion progresses to a stage neces- , sitating operation. Under these circumstances a limited operation only is I required ; this should consist in making a free incision into the affected I part of the joint cavity and removing as completely as possible the tuberculous tissue. Arthrectomy of the Knee-Joint was first performed in this country by ! Wright of Manchester in 1881, and has also been recommended by Oilier and I Yolkmann. It is thus performed :—The limb having been made bloodless by Esmarch's method, the cavity of the joint must be fully exposed. This may be done by a curved incision, extending from the posterior and upper part of the inner condyle to the corresponding point on the outer side, and extending downwards to a point about half an inch above the tubercle of the tibia. The hgamentum pateilje is then divided and the flap with the patella raised, fully opening the joint. Another method consists in making two lateral incisions extending on each side from the level of the upper part of the condyles of the