SKCONDARY UJEMORRHAGE AFTER LIGATURE. 245 dilemma ; " and in which it is necessary that his line of action should have been well considered beforehand, as he may not have much time to spare for reflection when the emergency occurs. In cases of this kind four lines of treatment present themselves, viz. : ligature of the vessel at a higher point ; deligation of the bleeding artery in the wound ; the employment of pressure ; and amputation of the limb. Ligature of the superficial femoral at a higher point, or, if the artery have been tied too high for this, deligation of the common femoral or of the external iliac, presents itself as a probable means of arresting the haemorrhage. Such an operation, however, is fraught with danger, and has, I believe, almost invariably been followed by gangrene. It might at first be supposed that the limb would not be placed in a worse situation after the ligature of the external iliac, whether the superficial femoral had been previously tied or not ; the anastomosing channels remaining the same in either case. But in reality it is not so ; for, although the blood might find its way through the epigastric, the circumflex iliac, the gluteal, and sciatic arteries, into the common femoral and the branches of the profunda, yet from this point the difiiculty of its trans- mission through the limb would be materially increased. If the superficial femoral be open, it serves as a direct and easy channel for the conveyance, to the vessels of the leg and foot, of the blood brought by the anastomoses. But when the superficial femoral is tied, this blood must find its way through a second chain of anastomosing vessels,—those intervening between the branches of the deep femoral and the articular arteries of the knee ; and here the real difficulty would arise, its impulse not being suflicient to overcome the obstruction to its passage through these small channels, which might not improbably be still further obstructed by the pressure of the aneurism. Should the anastomosing circulation be sufficiently free to maintain the vitaHty of the limb, it is not improbable that the recurrent blood would escape from the distal side of the ligature, and thus keep up the hasmorrhage exactly as in case of wound. Of 14 cases collected by Harrison Cripps in which the external iliac was ligatured for secondary haemorrhage from the superficial femoral only 2 recovered—one after amputation for resulting gangrene and the other after recurrent haemorrhage had been treated by pressure. There is indeed no reason for departing from the general rule to cut down upon the Heeding part and applij a ligature to it. That such an operation is surrounded with difficulties cannot be doubted ; yet none would present them- selves that care and skill might not overcome. The Surgeon would certainly have to cut into a part infiltrated with blood, in which the different tissues could not readily be distinguished, and the vessel when reached would be found to be inflamed and softened ; yet, by free dissection above and below the wound, a portion of it might at last be exposed, where its coats would hold a ligature. Should the Surgeon fail in his attempts to secure the bleeding point an endeavour should be made to arrest the bleeding by pressure. This has also been successfully adopted as the first treatment in some instances : thus of 1;^ cases collected by Cripps of secondary haemorrhage from the femoral treated bv pressure 12 recovered. In employing this method a graduated compress of lint or compressed spono-e should be applied to the wound ; the whole limb is then bandacred from the toes to the groin, a second compress being placed over Poupart's hgament and