840 HERNIA. in the hue of the descent of the tumour. These means ma. be emr^lnv . as soon as the patient is seen by the Surgeon, when, by stead^ anT^ ^ol the tux.s for a few mmutes, he will perhaps hear and feel a gurS n^h! umour which will be followed by its immediate reduction. It thf mfi Stt thjn, and the outhne of the aperture through which the hernia escape' to er' ably defined, the protrusion may be reduced, after failure of the taxis in thl ordinary way, by passing the tip of the finger or the nail under th ed, of the ring, and pulling this firmly and forcibly on one side, so as to stead and at the same time dilate it, pressure being kept up on the tumour with the other hand. This manoeuvre can be practised with more facility and success 111 femoral hernia, where the upper edge of the saphenous opening is sharply defined, but may also successfully be had recourse to in inguinal and umbilical protrusions. b^'uai No good can ever be eiiected by violence ; the inflamed and softened gut can easily be bruised or even torn by being pushed forcibly against the hard resisting ring. A few minutes will generally suffice to show whether further taxis IS likely to prove successful, and much harm may follow prolonged efforts If -taxis has been fairly used by another Surgeon it is better not to repeat it ' Auxiliary Measures.~li a careful trial of taxis has been thought justifiable but has failed to reduce the hernia, the patient's consent to an operation should be obtained and an anaesthetic administered. The choice of the anaesthetic in such cases has been considered in Vol. I., p. 35. Where complete muscular relaxation is produced, it occasionally happens that the hernia slips back with very slight manipulation, but if this does not happen the Surgeon should proceed at once to herniotomy. All other methods of treatment which occupy valuable time and delay the operation must, as a general rule, be condemned. If taxis has failed in the case of a hernia which is seen almost immediately after the occurrence of strangulation, and if there is unavoidable delay in obtaining an anesthetic, an ice-bag may be applied over the hernia. This sometimes succeeds in effecting reduction, and is assisted by placing the patient flat on his back and slightly raising the foot of the bed. The application of ice to a hernia containing damaged intestine is hkely to deprive the gut of such vitality as it still possesses. The use of a hot-bath may be reserved for the very rare cases in which consent to an operation is refused. All Surgeons will acknowledge the truth of the remark of the late Hey of Leeds—that he had often regretted performing this operation too late, but never having done it too early. It is true that cases have been recorded, in which after four or five days of treatment the hernia has gone up^ but it is very rare to meet with such cases in practice ; and, in all probability, in delaying the operation in the hope of finding one such case, the lives of dozens of patients would be sacrificed. Luke showed, as the result of the experience at the London Hospital, that the ratio of mortality increases in proportion to the length of time during which the strangulation is alloAved to continue. Of 69 cases of strangulated hernia operated upon within the first 48 hours of strangulation, 12 died, or 1 in 5*7 ; whilst of 38 cases operated on after more than 48 hours had elapsed, 15 died, or 1 in 2'5. The same point is well illus- trated by 12!) cases of strangulated inguinal and femoral hernia abstracted by Macready from the tables of Reichel and Habs : 12-5 per cent, died after one day's strangulation or less, 26*1 per cent, after 2 days, 36*3 per cent, after