ACUTE BRONCIIOGELE. 619 ,.u8t be taken, otherwise death from septicemia, or from suppuration extend- uicr into the mediastimmi, is very likely to occur. Treatment of Cystic Bronchocele.-Oysts of the thyroid have been .eated successfully by tapping them and then injecting ^^^^^^^ .^^^f^^^'^^'f^ .lution of perchloride of iron (5ij to 3! of water) as recommended by Moren Mackenzie. On account of the uncertainty of this method and the dange s :,f slouo-hing and suppuration with which it is attended, it has been largely abandoned in favour of laying open the cyst or completely excising it In the iormer method the cyst is incised freely and its walls sutured to the skin. \nj soft solid tissue which it contains may be scraped out, and if the haemor- rba'^-e is free the cavity should be plugged with strips of antiseptic gauze. It rhe^ discharges decompose the patient runs considerable risk of pyemia, septicemia, or diffuse suppuration in the neck. Charters Symonds has shown that in many cases thyroid cysts, bemg but l<iosely connected with the gland itself, can be treated by complete excision. \fter the cyst has been clearly exposed by an incision, preferably in the middle line, Symonds suggests that it should be punctured, when the collapsed cyst-wall ...an'be dissected out with a blunt instrument. If the cyst lies behind one lobe of the gland this must be raised from its surface and then the cyst removed. Adenomata and Cysto-adenomata.—These consist of encapsuled sohd or cystic growths, which lie on the surface or in the substance of the gland ])roper, having, as Symonds has pointed out, the same relation to the thyroid )ody itself as adenomata have to the breast. The solid tumours have a structure closely resembling that of the normal thyroid gland, whilst the cystic forms arise by distension of the glandular acini. They present themselves as a localized enlargement usually of one lobe, and the treats ment consists in shelling them out from their loose connexions with the Inland itself. Acute Bronchocele is of rare occurrence, but has been met with both .sporadically and epidemically, and in young subjects. Acute goitre has also been recorded as occurring during pregnancy and after parturition. The whole thyroid gland undergoes rapid enlargement, attaining the size of a man's fist or larger in the course of a few days or weeks. Owing to the rapid enlargement of the thyroid body, the fascia of the neck covering it does not .stretch with sufficient rapidity ; and the consequence is that the subjacent parts, as the trachea, become compressed, so that intense dyspnoea sets in, and death from asphyxia may result in the course of a few days or weeks. It is difficult in these cases to know how to save the patient; for tracheotomy by the ordinary methods may be impracticable, owing to the manner in which the tumour dips down behind the sternum. In such cases, tapping the tumour in different places, and the division of the fascia of the neck covering it, may give relief, and afford time for the action of remedies. If death is imminent from asphyxia the Surgeon may endeavour to intubate the larynx with a No. 10 gum elastic catheter having an opening at the extremity, as recom- mended by Annandale and others. If this fail only two courses are possible : either the isthmus must be divided accurately in the middle line, Paquelin's red-hot knife being used to limit the hemorrhage ; or the larynx may be opened, the cricoid cartilage being divided, and a long cannula or a catheter passed downwards past the obstruction. The latter method has been