i28o DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. The Operative Treatment of uterine tumours varies somewhat, accordi to the site and oonnexions of the growth or growths. The Subperitoneal variety, when unaccompanied by much co-existent Cx.- largement of the uterine body, may occasionally re(iuire operative interference on account of the size of the tumour and the consequent peritoneal irritatio caused by its presence. The operation usually performed under such circura stances is known as Mijotomy, or more correctly as Myectomy. In the case o. a pedunculated tumour, the growth, having been extracted from the abdominal cavity through a median incision, is supported by an assistant while the Sur- geon secures the pedicle by means of a tightly applied ligature of stout silk : the two ends of this, threaded together on a straight needle, are then passed through the substance of the pedicle immediately above the level of the con- stricting ligature ; the needle is withdrawn, and the threads brought round again on either side are firmly ried together above the knot of the first loop. The pedicle is now divided, and the cut edges of its peritoneal investment are sutured together across the face of the uterine stump with a view to avoiding the subsequent formation of adhesions thereto. In dealing with a sessile out- growth, the body of the uterus should first be encircled temporarily by an elastic ligature for the purpose of controlhng hasmorrhage. The tumour is then cut away, and a wedge-shaped portion is excised from its uterine base so as to leave two flaps of tissue with an outer covering of peritoneum; after being suitably trimmed down, these are to be accurately united face to face by three or four successive rows of fine silk sutures, the first row of which must obliterate the angle at the base of the flaps, while the last one unites the edges of the divided peritoneum. The surgical treatment of tumours involving the body of the uterus entails the performance of one or other of two operations, known as Odpliorectomy and abdominal Hysterectomy. Oophorectomy, or Hemoval of the Uterine Appendages (ovaries and tubes), is an operation aiming at the premature induction of an artificial menopause, with the view of thus promoting the decrease and final absorption of the uterine growths. The procedure in question, compared with the alter- native operation of hysterectomy, has the advantage of entailing much less immediate risk to life—its average mortahty in skilled hands amounting to only about 5 per cent. ; but, on the other hand, it must be noted that its ulti- mate results as regards the immediate arrest of haemorrhage and subsequent wasting of the growth are not always completely satisfactory; and further, that it is not applicable in all instances—notably in the case of uterine myoma (soft fibroid), and in cases of large multiple tumours when the size and position of the individual growths may render it impossible to elfect with safety the complete removal of the appendages. The Operation is performed as follows : The abdominal cavity having been opened by the usual median incision, the Surgeon, standing on the right side of the patient, introduces the fore and middle fingers of the left hand and explores the surface of the tumour until he detects the position of the left ovary and tube, which should be firmly grasped between his two fingers, and thus brought up into view—a manoeuvre to be somewhat facilitated, if the ovary be deeply situated, by drawing the summit of the tumour over towards the right side. When fully raised, the ovary and tube are securely held in the operator's left hand, while he clamps the broad ligament well beneath the