FUERFERAL MASTITIS. 77i The child must be taken from the breast and the milk drawn off with ^ Smdi follicular inflamraatious and abscesses, varying in size from a pin's liead to a cherry, are common in middle-aged women, mdependently of lactation. They often excite alarm, and cause some pam. They are usually readily relieved by belladonna and glycerine or warm lead lotion, followed by the touch of the point of a lancet. True Eczema of the Nipple is rare, and must be carefully distmguished tVom a very intractable form of inflammation which occasionally attacks the nipple and areola, and has been shown by Paget to be an occasional precursor of carcinoma of the breast (see p. 801). Eczema may affect one or both nipples • it usually occurs daring lactation, and is attended with much itching and uneasiness. At first there is simple redness, but soon crops of small vesicles appear which discharge a serous fluid and leave a raw surface. Vmonjr the many local remedies which may be tried for this condition are ..■lycerine of borax, boric acid ointment with one drachm of extract of belladonna to each ounce, carbonate of lead ointment, lead lotion, and calamine lotion. Painting the inflamed area with a strong solution of nitrate of silver may sometimes prove beneficial. Paeenchymatous Inflammation of the Breast may be met with m the following varieties : 1. Puerperal Mastitis ; 2. Mastitis neonatorum ; Mastitis of Puberty ; and 4. Mastitis of Adults not connected with Pregnancy. 1. Puerperal Mastitis includes more than 80 per cent, of all cases of acute abscess of the breast. Suppuration is by no means a necessary result, but in a considerable proportion of cases—according to Winckel in 33 per cent.— it occurs, the abscess being commonly known as a milk abscess. Puerperal mastitis is most common in primiparae, and generally commences during the first four weeks after labour, or if that period be passed, towards the end of prolonged lactation, especially in weakly women. Hence it is common among the poorer classes, who not rarely suckle their children until they are nearly two years old. It is rare in mothers who do not nurse their own children, a fact which, as Billroth has pointed out, is somewhat opposed to the theory that its common cause is obstruction to the flow of milk. The first symptom of puerperal mastitis is pain during suckling and a sense of heaviness in the breast, relieved by supporting it. As a rule only one lobule is first affected, most commonly at the lower and outer part of the breast, and this will be found to be hard and tender. In rare cases the whole gland is affected. As the inflammation advances the skin becomes reddened and oedematous, and at the same time the pain becomes more severe and lancinating and the constitutional disturbance more marked. The temperature often reaches 102° or 103° F., and there may be a rigor. The occurrence of suppuration may be indicated by a sense of fluctuation or elasticity, but this is oi'ten absent if the abscess is small and deeply seated. Velpeau has pointed out that one lobule after another may become inflamed, so that a succession of abscesses forms in different parts of the gland. Both breasts are rarely affected. Pathology.—As the name "milk abscess" suggests, it has very generally been supposed that puerperal mastitis arises from retention of milk due to some obstruction of the lacteal ducts. The evidence of such obstruction is, 3 p 2 1