DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. 702 conveniently be considered here. Tb lies either in the middle line or laterally and forms a swelling of varying size, which projects into the mouth beneath the tono-ne, and may also appear in the neck below the jaw. A specimen remarkable for its size, is preserved in the Museum of University College, ft was removed by (Iray, of Bombay, from a negro, aged thirty-five ; it is as large as a medium-sized cocoa-nut and contained forty ounces of pultaeeoue material. The cysts which occupy the middle hne between the genio-hyo- glossi muscles probably arise by a dilatation of an unobliterated portion of the thyrco-glossal duct (see Vol. I., p. 1014). This explanation will hardly account for those which are not median, and it is possible, as Barker suggests, that these arc due to inclusion of epiblast along the lines where the lateral processes, from which the tongue develops, join the middle one. The structure of dermoids has been considered in Vol. I., p. 1013. The treat- ment consists in removing the cyst from the mouth, or if this be im])os.sible, through an external incision in the middle line between the chin and the hyoid bone. The operation is troublesome, and may be accompanied by free bleeding. o. Bursal Cyst.—This is believed to arise from enlargement of the bursa above the hyoid bone between the genio-hyoidei and the genio-hyo-glossi. It projects usually more distinctly in the neck than into the mouth, and thus forms a large tumour, soft or elastic, and semi-fluctuating, occupying, perhaps, all the space between the symphysis and the hyoid bone. It may attain the size of an orange. The tumour is best treated by making a free incision into it, from the mouth if possible, and wiping out the cavity with chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to 3j. of water), after which a drainage-tube may be inserted. If the tumour is more superficial externally the same treatment may be carried out from the outside. It is not possible in most cases to dissect the cyst out, as its wall is thin and its connexions deep and important. Salivary Calculi are occasionally met with in connexion with the sub- lingual, submaxillary, and parotid glands. They consist chiefly of phosphate and carbonate of lime mixed with animal matter. They are most common in the submaxillary gland, and will then be found to be situated in the Whartonian duct, or very rarely in the substance of the gland itself. From this situation I have two or three times removed them. Wherever occurring, they obstruct the duct and produce retention of saliva in it. Hence, when the salivary glands become actively secreting, as at meal-times, the calculus, by preventing the escape of the salivary fluid, causes distension of the gland, with pain and tenderness, rendering mastication difficult. Suppuration occa- sionally takes place round the calculus, and if it be in the submaxillary gland the pus may burrow downwards and point in the neck near the great cornu of the hyoid bone. This, however, is very rare. The Treatment is simple. It consists in dividing the mucous membrane over the calculus and then extracting the latter with forceps. The largest which I have removed w'as of the size of a small damson-stone ; it was loose in Wharton's duct. DISEASES OF THE PALATE, UVULA, AND TONSILS. Hard Palate.—The hard palate is liable to necrosis, usually the result of syphilis, but occasionally arising from a subperiosteal abscess, starting from a