io84 URINARY CALCULVS AND LITJIOTRITY. the brass syring-e with from four to six ounces of some antiseptic solution sue 1 as bone acid lotion The use of drawing off the urine is to make sure of the bladder holding the proper quantity of fluid when it is afterwards njected ; and the object in injecting it, is to distend it to such an extent as to prevent the mucous membrane from being seized in the grasp of the lithotrite, or injured by the splintering of the stone. The instrument is then withdrawn, after the situation of the stone has been detected by it and the lithotrite 18 introduced. Should the patient be able to hold enough urine VIZ., from three to four ounces, to protect his bladder from the action of the lithotrite or the fragments, the injection may be dispensed with, and the ithotrite may be used at once. As this is straight, with a sharp elbow near the beak, some little skill is required in passing it. In doing this the Surgeon must keep his eye upon the short curved beak of the instrument, the direction and position of which must constantly be judged of ; and especial care must be taken, in carrying it under the pubes, not to injure the urethra by pushing the beak of the lithotrite forwards too suddenly, instead of winding it, as it were, under the arch of that bone. The instrument should first be introduced nearly parallel to the abdomen, the penis being held between the fore and middle fingers, and drawn over it. As the lithotrite passes down, it must be gradually raised to the perpendicular position ; and as its curve passes under the pubes, the handle should be depressed between the thighs (Fig. 888). The direction of the curve must be borne in mind, and the position of the handle varied in accordance with the course which this takes. No force must on any account be used. The weight of the handle is quite suflBcient to make the instrument enter the bladder. The lithotrite should be w^ell greased with carbolized oil, so that the blades and screw may work smoothly. 2. Seizure of the Stone.—The next point is to seize the stone, which will generally be found in the situation where its presence was detected during the sounding of the bladder. If large, the stone will probably lie low, near the neck of the bladder ; if small, it is most fi'equently met with at the inferior