I 1086 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTRITY. 3. Crnshing the Stone.-Wlieu the stone has been seized, it is held by pressing the blades together with moderate firmness, while the instrument's turned from whatever position it may be in till the beak looks forwards, and the calculus is placed about the middle of the bladder. It is hicrhly imnro bable with the lUBtruinents at present in use, that a portion of the muiou. membrane of the bladder has been seized with the stone ; but should such an accident have happened, it will be detected by the sense of resistance while attempting to bring the stone to the middle of the bladder (Fig 891) If this were felt it would be necessary to release the stone again. If, hovvever the instrument moves freely in the bladder, as soon as it is in the proper posi- tion the blades must be pressed firmly together, while the sliding movement is converted into the screw movement by drawing up the button in Thompson's hthotrite or by turning the cap in Bigelow's. In both these instruments this can be done with the right hand, while the left keeps the instrument perfectly steady. If the stone be small and not too hard, the mere pressure of the hand without using the screw, may suffice to crush it. When the screw is used it should be gradually worked by a series of short and sharp turns, so as to con- stitute almost percussive movements. In this way the calculus is generally made to crumble down, rather than to fly asunder ; and, as it yields, the screw Fig. 891.—Position of Lithotrite in Crushing the Stone. must be worked tightly home. The blades of the instrument may then be opened again, and a fragment of the broken calculus seized and crushed in the same way as before; and thus the complete disintegration of the stone is gradually effected. If a large fenestrated lithotrite has been used, it must be withdrawn as soon as the stone has been broken into fragments of moderate size, and the smaller non-fenestrated instrument passed to complete the crushing. This should not be removed from the bladder, if possible, till from the impossibility of catching any definite fragments it may be hoped that the whole calculus is thoroughly crushed. Repeated withdrawal and reintroduction of the lithotrite wastes time and increases the risk of bruising the urethra and prostate. Before with- drawing the lithotrite, the Surgeon must be careful to see, by the scale on the handle, that the male blade is well home. If this be not the case, and the instrument be enlarged by any fragments or detritus entangled between the blades, laceration of the neck of the bladder or urethra might occur in attempting to withdraw it. If the blades do not close perfectly, the screw must be forcibly turned, and if that fails the female blade must be held very firmly with the left hand, while the male blade is unlocked, and rapped sharply upon it two or three times ; this will usually dislodge any fragments between the blades. Il I