URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. I026 with traces of calcium and magnesium. The depth of colour is proportional to the amount of pigment in the urine. Urate of ammonium (Fig. HSfi), in the form of spiked globular masgCB, is occasionally met with alone or mixed with amorphous urates. The amoi-phous urates are readily recognized clinically by their completely dissolving when the urine is warmed. Free uric acid and urates are not uncommonly found together. Uric acid is one of the products formed in the elimination of nitrogenous material from the body. Under normal circumstances by a process of oxida- tion it becomes converted into urea and carbonic acid, the former being ehminated with the urine and the latter by the lungs. Such uric acid as remains unoxidised is excreted in the form of urates in such quantity as is, under normal conditions, readily soluble in the urine. The presence of au excess of uric acid is therefore due to imperfect oxidation. The deficiency of oxygen may be absolute, as when the patient is confined to close ill-venti- lated rooms, and takes insufficient exercise in the open air, or when he suffers from some disease interfering with respiration, as phthisis or emphysema, or when, from the deficiency of red corpuscles, the blood is not in a state to take up the necessary quantity. In all these conditions copious deposits of urates are habitually met with. In other cases the supply of oxygen is normal in amount, but the refuse products to be oxidised are excessive. This may arise from an excessive supply of nitrogenous food, or, in fact, of food of any kind, for there seems reason to believe that the carbo-hydrates, starch, sugar, &c., and alcohol, exert a sort of preference claim on the oxygen, and if supplied in excessive quantities leave an insufficient amount for the perfect oxidation of the refuse nitrogenous substances arising from the natural waste of the body. These deposits are therefore commonly met with in individuals of a robust habit of body and florid appearance who have lived too well. Copious deposits of urates occur also in all febrile conditions which are invariably associated with an increased waste of the tissues of the body. Violent and prolonged muscular exertion may produce the same effect. William Roberts has, however, shown that an unnatural tendency to the precipitation of uric acid in the urine is not necessarily due to its presence in excessive amount. Among the other conditions of the urine which favour the deposit of uric acid are, according to Roberts, high acidity, poverty m salmes, and low pigmentation. Without considering the chemical aspect of this im- portant subject, it is worthy of notice that Roberts suggests that the poverty in the salines of the urine by favouring the formation of free uric acid from the amorphous urates may serve to explain the greater frequency of stone among the children of the poor as compared with the children of the rich, and its special frequency among the natives of India. In both instances the diet is unusually deficient in mineral salts. , , n ^ ,-c ■ Excess of uric acid in the blood, as was clearly demonstrated by Garrod, is an essential feature of gout. In this disease deposits of uric ^^id, either ^ urates or as pure uric acid, are always met with in the urine ; and the gouty denosits in ioints and other structures are composed of urate of sodium. Urk acid i frequently met with in unhealthy children of the poor and less colonly among the children of the rich, who are allowed more animal food than they can readily digest. . The mere deposit of the normal quantity of urates on the cooling of Je mine, concentrated by excessive sweating, may be regarded as a natural condition.