lOOI SYMPTOMS SECONDARY TO GENITO-URINARY DISEASE. Urinary Ovgn.^s.-Simple dilalafmi of the Udney, although a condition seriously endaugering the success of any operation on the urinary organs, gives rise to remarkably few symptoms ; and it is surprising to what an extent the structure of the kidney may be damaged by chronic interstitial nephritis arisino- from this cause without interfering in any noticeable degree with tne patient's health. It gives rise to no oedema, no marked anaemia, and no alteration in the function of the skin. The most characteristic feature is pro- bably an increase in the quantity of urine, with a diminution m the specifac crravity. In a case lately in University College Hospital, the patient passed five pints of m-ine daily with a specific gravity of 1003 or 1004. In all cases in which it is desirable to ascertain the condition of the kidneys, the urine should be collected for the whole day, and the specific gravity taken. If the quantity be large and the specific gravity low, chronic interstitial nephritis may be suspected. The quantity of albumen is always small, and it may be absent altogether. At most, only a few hyaline casts can be found, and often no renal eplthehum. The excretion of urea is usually in sufficient amount, as the quantity of urine makes up for the low specific gravity. If the primary disease give rise to much pus and mucus, or to a little blood, the difficulties of diagnosis are greatly increased, and reliance must then be placed solely on the quantity and specific gravity, and even these may prove deceptive.^ It is rarely possible to gain much information by feeling the kidney. There is no tender- ness, and it is seldom sufficiently enlarged for the Surgeon to form any conclusion as to its condition. Suiacute interstitial nephritis gives rise to more evident symptoms. The patient is weak and languid, and slowly but steadily emaciates. He loses his appetite and has occasional attacks of nausea, though rarely actual vomiting. His tongue is furred and has a tendency to become dry, and occasionally there is thirst. There is no tenderness over the kidney. There may occa- sionally be a slight feeling of chilliness, seldom actual rigors. The temperature will be found to be slightly elevated, especially at night ; and for this reason, in any doubtful case, it is essential to obtain the evening temperature, as in the morning it may fall to normal. It seldom rises above 101° F. The urine is abundant and usually of low specific gravity, but by no means always so. It is seldom possible to find casts or to judge of the amount of albumen, as this form of disease usually accompanies bladder affections, which fill the urine with pus or mucus, as chronic cystitis, stone, and stricture. At most, only a few renal epithelium cells and possibly a hyaline cast or two could be found. This condition may last for weeks or even months, the patient gradually becoming weaker and weaker, until he is carried off by some intercurrent disease, or dies of pure exhaustion. More commonly, however, an acute attack supervenes on the subacute, either spontaneously or as the result of some surgical interference, and, rapidly ending in suppuration of the kidney, ter- minates fatally. On the other hand, the symptoms often gradually subside, the temperature becomes normal, and the patient gains strength. The improve- ment usually coincides with some diminution of the local irritation at the primary seat of disease, such as results from rest in bed in a case of stone, or from the cleansing of a foul bladder. As the symptoms are somewhat indefinite, it is often difficult to say how much is due to renal mischief and how much to the primary affection : but wherever we find a dry tongue, a persistent nocturnal elevation of temperature, loss of appetite, general weakness and