HYDATIDS OF THE LIVER. '939 Clodlee has pointed out that this cannot be foretold with certainty even when a prominent swelhng exists. If after dividing the parietes the hver be touna adherent, the Surgeon may at once proceed to open the abscess by passing a bistoury or dressing forceps along the aspirator needle with which the abscess has been found. The opening should be large enough to admit a dramage- tube the size of the finger. The free haemorrhage usually stops quick y it tne finger is passed into the track. If no adhesions exist between the liver and the abdominal wall, a ring of sutures must be introduced so as to fix the liver to the parietal peritoneum. Godlee recommends that fully curved Hagedorn s needles be used and the sutures passed deeply into the liver substance, m a double row and overlapping each other. If necessary, the abscess may at once be opened in the centre of the cu-cle surrounded by the sutures, but, if possible, this should be delayed for two or three days, when firm adhesions will have formed. If the abscess be pointing at the side, the incision should, if possible, be made below the normal line of the pleura, according to Godlee, " roughly not more than two inches above the margin of the ribs in the mid-axillary line." When the opening is made above this line, no trouble will occur if, as usually happens, pleural adhesions have already formed. If, however, the pleural cavity be opened, the diaphragm should be carefully attached to the costal pleura by a circle of stitches before the abscess is opened through it. When the operation is per- formed through the chest wall a piece of rib should be removed, as in the treatment of an empyema (p. 759). Patrick Manson, who has had a large experience in the treatment of tropical abscess of the Hver, has devised a special form of trochar cannula which is pushed boldly into the abscess through a small incision in the skin after the posi- tion of the pus has been determined with the aspirator. A large drainage-tube, tightly stretched on a steel stilette, is then passed through the cannula ; the latter is removed, and when the stilette is withdrawn, the tube by its expansion prevents any escape of pus except through its lumen. Hydatids of the Liver.—A hydatid cyst is characterised by a gradual progressive enlargement of the liver, regular or lobulated in form, smooth on the surface a.nd rounded at the edge. The general health suffers but little, there is no fever and no pain until the tumour reaches a considerable size, and causes local peritonitis with the formation of adhesions. When the tumour is very large, suppuration may take place. For a more detailed description of this disease I must refer the reader to works on medicine. Surgical interference should never be undertaken until the tumour reaches such a size as to become a source of inconvenience to the patient. If any doubt exists as to its nature this may be cleared up by the use of the aspirator,, the fluid of a hydatid cyst resembling nothing in the body except cerebro- spinal fluid (Yol. I., p. 100). The exploration of a doubtful abdominal tumour with the aspirator is by no means free from danger, and as a general rule a small exploratory incision is much to be preferred. The following are the chief modes of treatment which have been adopted in this disease :— Acupuncture.—Many cysts have been cured after simple puncture by means of acupuncture needles repeated at short intervals. It appears that the fluid escapes through the punctures and is absorbed. This simple treatment has, however, very frequently been followed by suppuration, necessitating afi'ee opening of the cyst to save the patient. It is said also that it may lead to