6i6 DISEASES OE THE THYROID GLAND. wli^'^'r '"^^-"^ ^"'^"tity of this medicine should be gradually ucrea ed, until from 20 to 30 grains are given three times a day eithei ' m milk or in coinb.nation with some preparation of iron ; the iodide is pro bably the best But iron is very necessary in all the anaemic forms of^ he" disease. Iodide of lead and compound iodine ointment may be used with advantage. It has been recommended by Mouat that the biniodide of mercury ointment (10 grs. to the ounce) should be well rubbed in for several days ; and then, the tumour being covered with it, the patient should be exposed to the strong heat of a mid-day summer sun. This method of treat ment, which is said to have been extremely successful in India, is seldom practicable in this country. In some instances presmre has been of use especially, in conjunction with the iodide inunctions ; though it is not so easy to apply this means, and no considerable degree of it can be borne, on account of the increased difficulty of respiration that is thus occasioned. When bronchocele is very large, and very chronic, its absorption cannot, I think be expected to be brought about by these or any other means ; and the question then arises as to the propriety of having recourse to operative interference. Injection of Tincture of Iodine into the substance of the gland is recommended by Billroth in cases of simple hypertrophy. In fibrous broncho- celes he does not advise it, as they are often permeated by very large blood- vessels. The iodine is injected by means of a hypodermic syringe, about ten minims being thrown in at a time. The operation may be repeated twice or three times a week, according to the effect. In performing the operation care must be taken that the point of the needle is actually in the substance of the gland, and that a superficial vein be not wounded, and that no air is injected. The fluid must be injected slowly. With all these precautions, however, this mode of treatment is not free from danger from entrance of air, embolism, or acute inflammation and suppuration in the gland. Injection of Ferchloride of Iron by means of the syringe figured at p. 73, might be of service in some cases of very vascular and pulsating bronchocele ; but it is not without the special danger of forming a plug in the circulation, and rapidly fatal embolism may follow its use. A fatal accident of this kind has in fact been recorded. In one instance of pulsating bronchocele in which I employed it, although much local inflammation and deep-seated suppuration were induced by it, the patient was in the end materially benefited. Ligature of the Thyroid Arteries has been practised by some Surgeons, with, it is stated, a certain degree of success. The difficulties and danger of the operation, the uncertainty of its results, and the readiness with which the arterial supply would be forwarded to the tumour from other sources, have caused it to be but little resorted to by Surgeons of the present day. In one case of pulsating bronchocele in which I had recourse to this treatment, no benefit resulted from it. Excision of the Thyroid Body.—Cases occasionally occur in which, from pressure on the trachea, oesophagus, and jugular vein, the dyspnoea becomes so severe, and the dysphagia and vertigo so serious, that there is no escape from death except by partial or complete removal of the tumour. Complete removal of the thyroid body was carried out by Roux, Warren, Greene, and others, in a few exceptional cases between 1820 and 1870, but the results were not en- couraging, some of the patients ha\ing died on the table from haemorrhage,