928 OPERATIONS ON THE ABDOMINAL VISC Eli A. under a mistaken diuoiunsis. Thus in ]8(;i^ Spencer WellB operated on young- won.ai. who was supposed to be sufferin,- fL an ovariaXmou, h abdomen was closed and the patient was ah^ve and well twent tvo ^eat afterwards. It was not, however, until 1884 that Koni- first record . IT cases ofHuberculous ^.ritonitis in which laparotomy was iJ:}^:^:^^:^ ode of trea ment S.nce that time a large numbef of cases have been re^ ed u this country and abroad, and the results have been highly satisfactory Of 31 cases collected by ivonig .n 1H!)0,107 recovered from the operation, and o these 30 were known to have remained well after varying periods of more than twoyeai^ By far the most successful results have bei obtained In tha form of tuberculous peritonitis which is attended with marked ascites, and the mple method adopted has consisted in openingthe abdomen in order to alC the fluid to escape and then completely closing the incision without drainage ^0 satisfactory explanation has been suggested of the permanent cure which has followed this treatment. It must, however, be remembered that cases of tuberculous peritonitis not uncommonly recover under simple medical treat- ment, and that ol all forms, the ascitic is the most favourable. These facts inust be carefully borne in mind in endeavouring to estimate the real advantage of operative interference. In the purulent variety irrigation and drainage should be adopted, and localized abscesses may be similarly treated The results which have been obtained in the dry forms of the disease, associated with extensive matting together of the intestines, have not been nearly so satisfactory. No operation should be undertaken if there is evidence of active tuberculous disease in other parts of the body. In some instances the symptoms of tuberculous peritonitis have developed so acutely that the abdomen has been opened in the belief that intestinal obstruction existed. On the other hand actual obstruction may be caused by the kinking of adherent intestine. In a case of this kind under the care of Barker, the obstruction was caused by a loop of small intestine being firmly held down to the brim of the pelvis by a tough mass of lymph. The peri- toneum was thickly studded with caseous tubercles, and the cavity contained a large quantity of clear fluid. The obstruction was relieved, iodoform emulsion freely used, and the abdomen closed. Six months later the patient appeared to be perfectly well, and there were no abdominal symptoms. INFLAMMATION ABOUT THE CiECTJM. Localised peritonitis in the region of the csecum is of common occurrence, and, on account of the frequency with which it goes on to suppuration, surgical interference is not uncommonly required. No subject in abdominal surgery has received more attention than this during recent years, and among those to whom we are largely indebted for our increased knowledge concerning the inflammatory affections of the cascum and its appendix may be mentioned Treves, Fitz, Bull of New York, and Fowler of Brooklyn. The term " Typhlitis " is now employed in a general sense to include all varieties of inflammation localised to the caecum or its appendix and the peritoneum which covers them. In a more restricted sense the name has been applied to inflammation of the crecum, those cases in which the vermi- form appendix is alone affected being distinguished as " appeudirifis." This division is of little practical value, for in many cases it is impossible from the