630 DISEASES OF THE ANTRUM AND UPPER JAW. crackling ou pressure (Fig. GOO). The floor of the orbit or the roof of the moutii niay be caused to bulge, and the nasal cavity may be encroached upon Treatment.—1 he operation of " cathcterizing the antrum," founded on an erroneous idea as to the nature of the disease, was formerly recommended but was never attended with any benefit to the patient. The oidy efficient treatment consists in opening the antrum from without: this is done without incising the hps or wounding the face, by thrusting a trochar and cannula into the most thinned and expanded part of the tumour under the cheek • or if necessary, by dissecting up the cheek from the gum, and thus making an opening into the cavity of the antrum with a strong pair of scissors or a perforator, through its most expanded part, so as to allow the discharge to escape freely. In order to prevent a re-accumulation of the fluid, it will be better to cut away a small portion of the expanded wall of the antrum, and thus to establish a permanent aperture in it, through which it must be syringed out daily with some antiseptic solution until all discharge ceases. Polypus of the Antrum.—Mucous polypi are occasionally met with in the antrum, but they give rise to no symptoms unless they reach a size sufficient to cause distension of the cavity. They then most commonly cause absorption of the inner wall and project into the nasal cavity, from which they have been successfully removed with forceps. Dental and Dentigerous Cysts will be most conveniently considered with other cystic affections of the lower jaw, although the former are, accord- ing to Heath, more common in the upper than in the lower jaw. Solid Tumours of various kinds may take their origin from the superior maxilla or its immediate neighbourhood. In most cases, by the time the case comes under observation, it is impossible to say with certainty in what part or tissue it took its origin—whether it began in the upper jaw, or spread into it from contiguous structures. The following are the chief tumours met with in this region :— Fibroma.—This is not uncommon, springing from the periosteum and either filling the antrum or projecting from the alveolar border. It grows slowly, and has no tendency to infect the surrounding tissues, but when springing from the antrum it causes gradual absorption of the surrounding bone, and forces its way into the neighbouring sinuses and cavities, or projects forwards on the face, sometimes forming a tumour of considerable size. Enchondroma.—Pure enchondroma is uncommon ; its general mode of growth, and the appearance it gives rise to, are similar to those of fibroma. Osteoma.—-Bony growths are occasionally met with filling the antrum and causing a projection forwards on the cheek. They are compoied of tissue having the normal structure of bone, and somewhat denser in structure than ordinary cancellous tissue. They increase slowly and painlessly. In the case of a young woman, aged 25, under the care of Heath in University College Hospital, the tumour formed a considerable projection on the face, and had been growing for ten years. Pedunculated growths have been met with springing from the outer surface of the bone, and still more rarely ivory-like tumours have been found in the same situation. Vascular Tumours.—Listen removed a tumour from the maxillary region, which in section presented the appearance of erectile tissue. The specimen is now in the Museum of University College. The section closely resembles that of the corpus cavernosum penis.