THE PROCESS OF THROMBOSIS. 53 when the blood is still moving. Thirdly, if the blood stagnate for a sufficient time the white corpuscles may perish from want of oxygen and disintegrate, thus liberating the ferment and inducing coagulation. Lastly, it is possible that the nutrition of the endothelium may suffer from arrest of the flow of blood through the vessel even when the circulation through the surrounding tissues is sufficiently active to maintain their vitality. Eetardation or arrest of the blood-stream may arise {a) from diminished vis a tergo. This may be due to want of power in the heart from old age, bad nourishment, exhausting fevers, or to shock or loss of blood from injury or operation. Interruption to the proper distribution of the force througli want of elasticity in the arteries acts in the same way. Obstruction of the main artery of a limb, or arrest of the capillary circulation in the area frojn Avhich a vein derives its blood, will in like manner retard the venous flow. (h) Another very common cause of retardation or arrest of the blood-stream in the veins is the obstruction caused by the pressure of a tumour, or the con- traction following chronic inflammation of the connective tissue of an organ : examples of these conditions may frequently be seen in the iliac veins pressed upon by a pregnant uterus or an ovarian tumour, and in the vessels of a cirrhotic liver ; and it must be remembered that a tight bandage may act in the same way. (c) When a vein is divided in a surgical operation, it empties itself and becomes collapsed as far as the next pair of valves, but above these it may remain full of stagnant blood up to the point at which another vein enters the trunk. When a vein is ligatured in its continuity there will be, in addition, stagnation of blood below as far as the next collateral branch. (d) When the circulation is too feeble to press the valves back against the walls of the vessel, or when in consequence of dilatation they are never properly closed, but project into the lumen of the vein, it not uncommonly happens that stagnation takes place in the sinuses of the valves, and small thrombi may thus form, which finally project into the lumen of the vessel, and by gradual increase may at last close it completely. The Process of Thrombosis.—Thrombosis may take place while the blood is moving, the lumen of the vein becoming gradually filled with the coagulum, or while the blood is at rest. The appearance of the thrombus varies with the conditions under which it is formed, much as the coagulum obtained by whipping blood differs from that formed when freshly shed blood is allowed to coagulate undisturbed in a vessel. The process of thrombosis has been observed experimentally by Zahn in the veins of the mesentery and tongue of the frog. A large vein being chosen, its walls were injured by placing a crystal of common salt near or directly over it. On watching the injured spot, the white corpuscles of the passing blood were seen to adhere to it until they were heaped up, sometimes to such an extent as completely to obstruct the vein. If the injurious action of the salt had not been very severe they might break loose again and pass away into the blood-stream; if it had been more powerful the corpuscles remained adherent. After some hours they were seen to undergo a marked change. The greater part disintegrated, their outline being lost and their nuclei no longer being recognizable ; and a fine granular mass, having the appearance of freshly-formed fibrin, appeared in the place they formerly occupied. This observation is in harmony with the view tliat the liberation