390 DISEASES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. most purposes of life. In cases of angular osseous ankylosis of the elbow, u wedge-shaped piece of bone should be removed. 3. In cases of compound fracture or dislocation of the elbow-joint, more or less complete resection of the protruding, and possibly splintered fragments, may be required (Vol. I., pp. 594 and G80), Operation.—Excision of the elbow-joint may be performed by the \-\, the T-^liiiped, or the simple longitudinal incision, or by two longitudinal incisions. Each method has its advocates. The H'Sliaped operation consists in making.' an incision parallel to, and a little to the radial side of, the ulnar nerve, another along the outer side of the joint, and uniting the two by a cross cut, dissecting up and down two square flaps, and cleaning the bones laterally, it was soon found by Surgeons that by this method a very unnecessary amouni of incision was practised; and accordingly the vertical cut along the outer side was dispensed with, and the |—shaped operation adopted. This consists in making the longitudinal incision parallel to, and a little to the radial pid^ of the ulnar nerve, and the cross cut over the olecranon to the outer side of the joint. Subsequent experience has shown that this incision may be still further simplified, and the operation reduced to a single longitudinal incision carried over the centre of the joint in the middle line from above downwards. In comparing these different methods of operating, I decidedly give the preference to the single longitudinal incision, as being quite sufficient in all ordinary cases for the complete and easy removal of the articulation. Both the |-|- and "f-shaped incisions involve, moreover, a complete transverse division of the tendon of the triceps, in consequence of which the power of active extension of the limb may be lost after recovery from the operation. Should the soft structures towards the outer side of the joint not yield sufficiently, a cross-cut can at once be made, so as to liberate them, and give the Surgeon more room, by turning up the two triangular flaps that will thus be formed. The following are the successive steps of the operation by the "f-sliaped and single longitudinal incisions. Should the former be adopted, either in conse- quence of the situation of the sinuses or of previous incisions for the relief of abscesses, the arm being held across the chest, the perpendicular cut should be made parallel to, and a line or two to the outer side of, the ulnar nerve ; being commenced at least two inches above the point of the olecranon, and carried down to about three inches below it. The transverse incision may then be made directly across the end of the olecranon, to the outer side of the joint, and extended as far as the extremity of the outer condyle (Fig. 552). The two triangular flaps thus made must be dissected up, the knife being carried close to the bones (Fig. 553). The subsequent steps are the same in the operation by the single longitudinal incision. In the operation by the sij^gle longitudinal incision the arm is held in the position just described, and the incision is commenced from two to three inches below the tip of the olecranon and carried directly over the middle of that process, terminating a similar distance above it. If the parts are much swollen, the length of the incision must be increased so as to allow of the sides being held well apart. The incision must be carried firmly down to the bones so as completely to divide the tendon of the triceps in a longitudinal direction. The arm is then slightly extended, and soft parts cleared from the inner side of the joint. To do this the thumb must be pushed into the longi- tudinal slit in the triceps, and the tendon thus put on the stretch and shaved