INGUINAL HERNIA. presenting all the usual signs of a hernia. So long as it is confined to neighbourhood ot the pubes, it is of moderate size! but when onc^ ttt the scrotum, where it meets with less resistance, it may gradually enlar. until It attains an enormous bulk. The testicle, ho.vever, may always be S with tolerable distmctness at its posterior inferior part. When of lame « . these ruptures usually contain both intestine and omentum, most frequentlv portion of the ileum, though the various other viscera, such as the c^cl sigmoid flexure, bladder, &c., have been found in them. In the direct inJml herma, the symptoms closely resemble those of the ol.lique, except that X tumour IS more rounded, and usually not so large; the neck is wider aud situated near the root of the penis, with the cord on its outer side 'The oblique inguinal hernia is most common in young males, whilst the direct form IS almost confined to elderly men. This appears to be owing to the imperfect closure of the funicular process of the peritoneum being the common cause of the first, and absorption of fat of the second, form. The different forms of inguinal hernia are not unfrequently complicated with various other affections : either with other kinds of rupture, or with diseases of the cord or testis, such as hydrocele and varicocele. These com- plications make the diagnosis more obscure, but with care and practice it may generally easily be made out. The Diagnosis of inguinal hernia is usually readily effected, the characters and position of the tumour enabling the Surgeon to determine its true nature. In most cases it is useless to endeavour to ascertain whether the hernia is oblique or direct ; all old obhque hernige having a tendency to drag the inner ring downwards and inwards, so as to bring it nearly opposite to the outer one, shortening or destroying the obliquity of the canal. Hence the direction of the neck and of the axis of the tumour in these cases so nearly resembles what is met with in the direct hernia, that the Surgeon should not be guided in an operation, more particularly in the division of the stricture, by any imaginary diagnosis. Femoral hernia may occasionally be confounded with inguinal ; the distinguishing points between the two will be considered in the section on femoral hernia. The diagnosis of inguinal hernia from other diseases in this vicinity has to be considered under the two conditions in which the rupture is found,—1, in the canal, and 2, in the scrotum. 1. Whilst still lying in the canal, inguinal hernia requires to be diagnosed from the following conditions :—a. Abscess, descending from the interior of the abdomen or pelvis through the canal, and passing out through the abdominal ring. The diagnosis may here be effected by recognizing the soft fluctuating feel of the abscess, which, though reducible on pressure, and descending on coughing with a distinct impulse, does not present the more solid characters and the gurgling sensation of a hernia. Encysted and Diffused Hydrocele of the Cord. In the encysted hydrocele there is a smooth oval swelling situated on the cord, which can be apparently reduced, being pushed up into the canal, and descends again on coughing or straining ; but it may be distinguished from hernia by being always of the same size, by not being reducible into the cavity of the abdomen, by the absence of all gurgle, and by its very defined outline. If the testicle be drawn downwards the encysted hydrocele becomes fixed and is no longer reducible even into the canal. In the diffused hydrocele of the cord, which is an extremely rare affection, the absence of distinct impulse on