896 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. movements of the intestines. In otlier cases the bands are proljablv congenital, especially when connected at one end with the umbilicus or its immediate neighbourhood, and at tlie other with the mesentery. When the band is short, strangulation usually occurs from a coil of gut slipping beneath it, but when it is long and loose, it may form a noose, in which a portion of the intestines may be snared. Internal strangulation may also be caused by bands formed from the omentum. These are commonly attached near the openings of the femoral and inguinal rings, more especially in cases in which a hernia has at sometime existed. The adherent piece of omentum usually loses its membranous form, and becomes twisted into a firm fibrous cord, by which the gut may be pressed upon as above described. Meckel's diverticulum from the ileum, the imperfectly obliterated vitelline duct, is another not uncommon cause of strangulation. The viteUine duct joins the ileum at a point between 18 and 36 inches from its termination (in the adult). Among the conditions which may be the result of an imperfect obliteration of the duct are the following :—1. The duct remains open through- out, and persists as a ffecal fistula at the umbilicus; 2. The intestinal extremity persists in the form of a pouch-like projection from the gut, or as a long narrow diverticulum with a globular extremity ; and 3. From the end of the diverti- culum a fibrous band passes to the umbilicus, or forms a free whip-like process. Bland Sutton has shown that in rare instances the process of obliteration of the vitelhne duct may be excessive and involve the lumen of the gut itself, thus giving rise to a constriction of the ileum, varying in degree between slight narrowing and complete occlusion. As causes of internal strangulation, the most important conditions are those in which the diverti- culum ends in a fibrous band (Fig. 813), or in which its extremity becomes adherent to the mesentery or other coils of intestine, and thus forms a loop through which a coil of gut may pass. Strangulation may also arise through loops formed by the attachment of the vermiform appendix, Fallopian tube, or the pedicle after ovari- otomy, to neighbouring structures, such as the abdominal wall, the mesentery, the omentum, or the intestine. In another form the gut is strangulated by passing through a slit or aperture in the omentum or mesentery (Fig. 814). In some cases these openings are possibly the result of injury, but probably they are more commonly congenital. The above are the most common varieties of internal strangulation. Fif;.814.-IntestinalObstmctioufrom Internal Hernia, but VarioUS Other anOUialoUS forfflS are mentioned by Treves, such as strangulation over, instead of under, a band, acute kinking from traction on an isolated band, or by an adhei-ent diverticulum, &c. Lastly, to this class belong certain very rare forms of internal hernia, ni which the gut is strangulated in the foramen of Winslow, or in cci'tain