rso OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE. ^^ir^'t^^'^'T''''^ ^'"^^^ containing many eb^ and IS of small si.e, so that a slight deviation of the incision to one sfdc mav •cadilj lead he Surgeon astray, and into dangerous proximity witli the carS arteries. The danger of the operation results from the large size of the^ venous plexuses m connexion with the thyroid body. In performing thi operation in young subjects, chloroform should always be administered Th « .nay> done with safety, even though the most urgent dyspnoea be present he difficulty of respiration, being in a great measure spasmodic, is relieved the anresthetic. If chloroform be not given, the struggles of the child will seriously embarrass the operator. The dangers and difficulties of the operation are avoided only by attention to the advice already given, to keep accurately' to the middle line, to avoid operating too high, mistaking the hyoid bone for the pomum Adami, to make a sufficiently free incision, and above all, to avoid needless hurry in cases in which asphyxia is not imminent, and to do the operation by a careful process of dissection, rather than by irregular tearintr with blunt instruments. ° ° Comparison of Tracheotomy and Laryngotomy.—On comparin<r tracheotomy, as ordinarily performed, with laryngotomy, I think there can be little doubt that the Surgeon should give the preference, in all cases where it is practicable, to the latter operation, on account of its greater simplicity safety, and rapidity. When the windpipe is to be opened ibr the extractioti ■of a foreign body, tracheotomy should be performed in preference to laryngo- tomy, as the latter operation does not provide a sufficient opening for its ■expulsion or extraction. In children the larynx is so little developed, that tracheotomy should as a rule be done. lu all cases in which the obstruction to respiration is produced by inflammatory effusion into the submucous areolar tissue, or oedema glottidis, whether dependent upon idiopathic or erysipelatous laryngitis, or chronic disease of the larynx, or upon the irritation and inflammation excited by swallowing boiling water or the stronger acids, ill my opinion, laryngototny is the operation that should be preferred in the iidult ; and this opinion is based on the following reasons :— 1. As in laryngotomy the air-tube is always opened below the seat of obstruc- tion, there can be no necessity to make an aperture farther from the seat of disease. In laryngitis, whether acute or chronic, the obstruction to breathing depends upon swelling of the lips of the glottis causing an impediment to the entrance of air. But this loose submucous areolar tissue terminates afc the true vocal cords, where the mucous membrane becomes directly applied to the subjacent fibrous structures ; the swelling and consequent mechanical impediment are hence confined to the limits of the thyroid cartilage, and any opening made below this will clear the lowest limit of the disease, which is always accurately bounded below by the vocal cords. Hence an aperture in the crico-thyroid membrane is quite as effectual as one in the trachea. 2. Laryngotomy is a far safer operation than tracheotomy. On this point I need scarcely dwell ; a glance at the anatomy of the parts concerned will be sufficient to establish it. The crico-thyroid membrane is nearly subcutaneous, .and no parts of importance can be wounded in opening it, if we except the