SARCOMA OF BONE: TREATMENT. 32t there is reason to believe that it is a myeloid sarcoma, it may be sufficient to remove only the part of the bone from which it grows. In the leg this necessitates amputation, but in the lower end of the radius, or the upper end of the humerus, it is sometimes possible to excise the alfected part of the bone without removing the limb. In tumours of the lower jaw it is seldom necessary to remove more than half the bone. If part of the bone only be removed, the sawn surface and medullary canal must be carefully examined, and if they do not appear healthy more must be cut away. If the tumour be peripheral, or if it be a central sarcoma of any kind other than myeloid, no means avail except the complete removal of the diseased bone. These operations are, however, not very promising, as there are few forms of malignant tumour in which secondary growths more rapidly develop. The rapidity of recurrence will, however, greatly depend upon the form of the disease, on the time when ampuiation is performed, and on the part where it is practised. Amputation should always, if possible, be performed in the earliestst age of the disease, before general infection has taken place. If the glands be enlarged, little can be expected in the way of ultimate cure. The selection of the hne at which amputation should be performed is of great importance. If the limb be removed for a central growth in the continuity of the diseased bone, there is great probability of a rapid return of the disease in the stump—even when the bone appears healthy to the naked eye at the part cut through, the myeloid sarcoma alone being an exception to this rule. In cases of peripheral disease, this return may not take place in the same bone ; indeed, I have seen one case of the kind in which the disease affected the lower end of the tibia, and that bone was amputated in its upper third ; in this case, after a lapse of some months, fatal recurrence of the disease took place in the pelvic bones, but not in the stump. As, however, the peripheral is more rare than the central form of the disease, and as there are no means of ascertaining the precise kind before removal, the rule, I think, should be absolute to amputate at or above the next joint—at the hip- joint, in mahgnant disease of the femur ; in the thigh, for that of the bones of the leg ; and at the shoulder, when the upper arm is affected. When the lower part of the femur, however, is involved, amputation through the trochanters may sometimes be substituted for disarticulation at the hip-joint, the latter operation being so formidable and so fatal that the Surgeon may thmk it advisable not to subject the patient to so serious a risk ; or amputa- tion might be performed through the trochanters, and the head of the bone then resected. In this way the severity of the operation and the extent of wound would be lessened, whilst the whole of the diseased bone would be removed. In cases of myeloid sarcoma it is not usually necessary to remove the whole bone, as the disease almost invariably begins in the articular ends, and rarely extends far. into the medullary canal. In some forms of malignant bone disease, however, the muscles inserted into the affected bone speedily become contaminated, and this contamination may spread widely through the substance or along the sheath of any particular muscle. Hence I think the rule in these cases should be to amputate not only above the diseased bone, but, if practicable, above the origins of the muscles in the neighbourhood of the disease : thus, if there be a malignant tumour of the bones of the forearm, amputation should be done VOL. ir. T