ANEURISM. the heait, and throbbing of the arteries geaerally. The otlier condition Jih, system IS found usually in elderly peoplet with / feebl^ pui:;Tt he n i ties In tW "V!"'' ^ habit of body the disease makes slo.: piogiess. In these opposite conditions it is perfectly clear that the same plan of t eatment cannot succeed ; and that the constitutional means must be modified according to the state of the patient. In the ov lujpercemic state, the plan of treatment originally introduced by Valsalva and hence called by his name, may advantageously be employed, m he modified manner that has been recommended and adopted by some modern Surgeons. Pelletan, Hodgson, and Tufnell have reported very favour- ably of this treatment, and I have seen several mstances in which it has proved decidedly beneficial. As recommended by Valsalva, this method of treatment was intended to carry out two important points: 1, by a process of gradual stai-vation and depletion to reduce the quantity of blood in the system, the force of the heart, ^nd consequently the pressure exercised upon the walls of the aneurism ; and, 2, after the patient had in this way been reduced, the plasticity of the blood was to be improved by feeding him up in a gradual and careful manner, so that the tendency to the deposit of laminated fibrin might be in- creased. Valsalva endeavoured to carry out the first of these objeccs by sub- jecting the patient to small and repeated bleedings, and by gradually reducing the quantity of food that was daily taken, until it was lowered to half a pound of pudding in the morning, and a quarter of a pound in the evening. In this way the patient's strength was reduced until he could scarcely be raised up in bed without fainting ; the quantity of food was then gradually augmented, so that the plasticity of the blood might be restored. It is seldom that Surgeons carry out Valsalva's plan of treatment in the precise manner indicated by him ; it is generally found to be more convenient to modify it somewhat according to the circumstances of the case, though the principles on which it is conducted are essentially the same. In adopting any constitutional treatment in cases of aneurism, the first and most essential to be attended to is to keep the patient perfectly quiet in bed and free from all excitement. The diet should be very carefully regulated, being gradually reduced in quantity, and consisting principally of farinaceous food, with a very small quantity of meat, little liquid, and a total absence of stimulants. Perhaps the best regimen is that recommended by Bellingham, consisting of two ounces of bread and butter for breakfast, two ounces of bread and the same qufintity of meat for dinner, and two ounces of bread for supper, with about two ounces of milk or water with each meal, or occasionally sipped in small quantities. At the same time purgatives should be administered, especially such as give rise to watery stools, and remove obstructions of the portal system ; with this view a scruple of the compound jalap powder may be given twice a week. In some cases, if the heart's action be particularly strong, recourse may advantageously be had to small bleedings from time to time. Iodide of potassium, in doses varying from five to thirty grains three times a day, has been largely used in cases of intrathoracic and abdominal aneurism, and its good effects lend some weight to the supposed syphilitic origin of many aneurisms. In a large proportion of the cases thus treated, the sufiferings of the patients have been relieved j there has been diminution of the size of the sac, and in several instances the cure has apparently been perfect. The