<X'o D/snASJss 01.- ■run tectum and anus. skill. The gut can now be separated posteriorlv without an/.n* ,! means of the «„go., aided by the seissoi. at the A2Z^^ A\ hen the sides are separated the o-ut musf Hp rlmwn Ko.i i i in cue male, io avoid woundmir the urethn hi h^-^ rv,„i^ i l^'"""^^"' catheter should be passed at this stage o^f t^o^rti^^ elt from the wound. The gut having now been separated it may be cut t - by means oi: scssors. During the operation bleeding must be arrested bv , use of forc.pressure forceps. The hemorrhage can in this wa" I y'b^^ under control, and seldom causes any great trouble. Having completed h excision, most Surgeons follow Cripps's advice and make no Lip br down the mucous membrane to the anus ; the stitches are very likely to ^^-e way, and burrowing of septic matter is more likely to occur than if the who wound IS left open Volkmann and Czerny, however, recommend the of sutures in order to lessen the amount of raw surface and therefore the subse quent tendency to stricture. If sutures be used they should include not onlv the skm and mucous membrane but should be passed deeply, as Ball suff^ests through the surrounding tissues. The posterior incision should be left freely' open. The wound should be thoroughly sponged with some antiseptic solution chloride of zmc (gr. 40 to 3]) being by far the most efficient. It may then be dusted with iodoform. ^ The after-treatment consists in well syringing the wound once or twice a day with some antiseptic solution, and the application of iodoform The bowels must be prevented from acting for ten days or a fortnight by proper diet and the admmistration of opium. Heahng takes place slowly, and the mucous membrane becomes drawn down considerably towards the skin. Stricture almost necessarily results if the whole circumference of the bowel* have been removed. To obviate this, Cripps recommends that a large bougie should be passed daily after the first fortnight, and allowed to remain^in position for some hours daily. This should be continued for a month, and then the bougie passed once daily for a year or longer. Incontinence of fjeces is more rare. Cripps states that it occurred in seven cases out of thirty-six, and in six others there was a slight escape when the motions were liquid. Removal of a part of the circumference is a much more successfnl operation. It is performed in the same way as that just described, but the healthy mucous membrane and the corresponding part of the anus must be preserved unin- jured, a longitudinal incision with scissors being carried up the bowel on each side of the morbid growth. It is seldom followed either by incontinence of fteces or serious stricture of the bowel. Wound of the peritoneum is a serious but not necessarily fatal accident. If the opening be small and within reach, it must be closed by sutures. If this cannot be done, according to Bardenheuer the patient is given the best chance of life by the introduction of a full-sized drainage-tube into the peritoneal pouch from the rectum. The mortality of the operation is considerable, but has been much reduced during recent years. Ball has collected 175 cases with a death-rate of 16-5 per cent. Harrison Cripps has performed partial excision of the rectum 38 times with only 3 deaths. Of the 35 patients who recovered, the subsequent history of 7 was not known j in 10 there was recurrence within a year, and in