1195 PERINEAL SECTION. luemorrbage in 5, and in 2 the patient was left with permanent chordee during 'TFor^the effects produced on the kidneys by splitting strictures and by internal urethrotomy, see Chap. LXV.) „„;ihm,t bv External Urethrotomy.-The division of the stricture from nnlhout, by incision through the perin.T3ura, may be performed by two distmct operations : the one being applicable only to those strictures that are pervious to an instiu- ment; the other to those which are impermeable. In the first case a grooved staff is passed through the stricture, and the section is made upon this m the second case, the Surgeon cuts through the stricture, without any guidance except such as his anatomical knowledge may afford. Operation for Permease Strictnre.-The first of these operations, introduced by Syme as Urethrotomy, and commonly called Penimal bection, is a comparatively simple procedure. The instruments required for its performance are a staff, a No. 8 silver catheter, a pointed scalpel, and a broad director. The staff should vary in size from No. 1 to No. G, according to the tightness of the stricture ; it should be grooved along its convexity, either the whole of the way, or better, merely for the lower third (Fig. 924). The stem is smooth, and of full size, and. joins the^lower grooved part by a distinct shoulder, which, being passed down as far as the' stricture, forms by its projection a guide to the part of the urethra requiring division. In those cases in which there are false passages, a hollow staff of the same size and shape may advantageously be used ; the flow of urine through it indicating with certainty its passage into the posterior part of the urethra. Performance of Perinseal Section.—The operation is performed as follows : The staff having been passed through , r , , , T • L i.1 I.- 1. • Staft for Perineal the stricture until the shoulder rests against it, the patient is sec-tion. placed in the lithotomy position, and the Surgeon, seating himself in front, pushes the scalpel, with the back of the blade downwards, into the mesial line of the periuEeum a little above the rectum, and cuts upwards for an inch or more into the raphe. The dissection is carried on very carefully exactly in the median line until the staff is reached, when the knife must be entered into its groove UMnd the stricture, and carried forwards through this. The staff, having been pushed on to ascertain that all is free, must be withdrawn, and a No. 8 catheter introduced, which is to be kept in for forty-eight hours ; it must then be taken out, and at the end of eight or ten days the urethra must be dilated by the introduction every second day of a full-sized silver catheter. Urine escapes for some little time by the perinaeal incision ; but, as this heals by granulation, the flow of fluid gradually lessens and at last ceases entirely. The principal points to be attended to in this operation are :— 1. To see that the staff' is fairly through the stricture, and to be especially careful in determining this if false passages exist. 2. To cut carefully in the median line ; where, as Syme has observed, a kind of septum exists even in the deeper structures of the perineeum, and where there can be no danger whatever of dividing any artery of magnitude, which might happen if any lateral deviation of the knife took place. The Fig. 1)24.—Syme's