507 ENLARGEMENT OF VARIOUS BURSJE. Fig. 613.—Very large solid tumour of the bursa patella'. Both knees were similarly affected. result of a deposition of fibrin gradually taking the place of the fluid of an ordinary - housemaid's knee," and which, instead of taking the form of melon- seed bodies, is deposited in concentric layers. This has not been the case, 'however, in the specimens which I have seen. In these there has always been a true fibroid growth in the wall of the bursa from the very first; the tumour was never fluid, but hard and solid from the commencement, and continued slowly to augment in size, until it occasioned sufficient inconvenience to require re- moval. In some cases there has been ■A previous syphilitic taint. The patient complains of pain in the tumour like that which is experienced in nodes, and it is by no means impossible that there may be always a syphilitic origin for these tumours. However that may be, in the cases that have fallen under my observa- tion, the tumours have never been fluid, nor have they originated in pressure, but appear to have been primary growths of fibroid matter. Treaiment.—T\iQxe is nothing to be done with such tumours but to dissect them out. With ordinary care the joint runs no risk ; but as the deep fascia is necessarily opened up, widely spreading suppuration may occur beneath it, unless good drainage and perfect asepsis be maintained. In order to provide more efficient drainage, it is better to remove the bursa by a curved incision on the outer side of the tumour rather than by one in the middle line. Diseases of other Burs^.—The diseases of the Bursa Patella being taken as the type, the affections of the other more important bursse require to be but briefly alluded to. Enlargement of the Pre-hyoidean "bursa or of that between the genio- hyoid muscles occasionally forms a thin-walled fluctuating tumour in the front of the neck and beneath the chin. When the bursa between the genio-hyoid muscles is the seat of disease, the cyst may push up into the floor of the mouth between the genio-hyoglossi. When the pre-hyoidean bursa is affected the cyst tends to extend downwards over the larynx, forming one of the varieties of the so-called " hydrocele of the neck." Treatment—These cysts can usually be cured by tapping, with injection of chloride of zinc or tincture of iodine, followed by antiseptic drainage. The walls are too thin and their attachments too deep to make it advisable to attempt their removal by dissection. The Bursa beneath the Deltoid is not uncommonly enlarged. The affection assumes most frequently the form of simple chronic enlargement with or without the presence of melon-seed bodies. It forms a rounded swelling, causing prominence of the deltoid, with distinct fluctuation. In some cases enlargement of this bursa is connected with chronic tuberculous disease of the shoulder-joint, which should always be carefully looked for. The Treatmefit, if the joint be not diseased, consists in aspiration and blistering