INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. h-lif !r ''^ Z\ ' ^"^^ ^'■^'^^ theBpinous process and oem. hal above the hue and half below it. The layers of the abdominal 3 inclnding the pentonenm, are divided in the usual way. If the di e^d ' ^moid flexure does not at once present in the wound, the small n^ t^ j omentum must be pushed aside and the colon-recof,-nised by its louKitula muscular bands and appendices epiploicaB-sought for. When found gut IS drawn gent y downwards so that the opening may be made as hi^h a possible with the object of preventing subsequent prolapse. Two supporting sutures of silk are next passed through the longitudinal muscular band opposi e the mesentery at a distance of two inches from each other These are left long, and serve to steady the bowel whilst it is being attached to the sKin. _ 1 his IS done by means of fine silk sutures, which include the edge of the skin and the serous and muscular coats of the bowel. About six of these will be required on each side ; they should all be inserted before any are tied and the part of the bowel which is left exposed should include about two- thirds of Its circumference. Finally, one or more sutures may be requu-ed in order to bring together the angles of the skin incision. If the case is not urgent an antiseptic dressing is applied, a piece of protective being placed over the exposed bowel, and on the fifth or sixth day the latter is opened by cutting out a small elliptical piece of its wall. In an urgent case, when the bowel needs to be opened at once, especial care must be taken in the process of suturing. It is very important that, after the bowel is opened, a prominent spur (p. 858) should separate the upper and lower openings; this serves to direct the contents out through the artificial anus, and prevents them passing onwards into the bowel between the opening and the obstruction. To insure the formation of such a spur, several devices have been suggested. The most simple consists in drawing out the bowel until its mesentery is exposed, and transfixing the latter with a piece of glass rod, which is left resting on the abdominal wall. Instead of the rod, a suture may be passed through the mesentery and the skin on either side of the incision. The suggestion to divide the bowel completely, close the lower end, and suture the upper into the opening in the parietes, cannot be recommended. It greatly increases the severity of the operation, and is likely to be followed by trouble from accumulation of discharges above the stricture. lumbar Colotomy.—In order to avoid wounding the peritoneum, CalUsen, of Copenhagen, in 1796, proposed opening the colon from hehind, in the left lumbar region, where it is not covered by peritoneum. Ee once attempted this operation on the dead body of a child ; but, failing to reach the intestine without wounding the serous membrane, he seems to have abandoned all further idea of it. The operation was, however, subsequently practised and perfected by Amussat, and is frequently known as " Amussafs Operation." It affords an adm'irable illustration of the important practical application of an apparently trivial anatomical fact, viz., the relation of the layers of the meso-colon to the descending colon. Amussat, when he was attending the celebrated Broussais for cancer of tho** rectum, of which he ultimately died, was led to reflect on the resources that Surgery offers in similar cases ; and after making some experiments on the dead body, he became convinced that the operation proposed by Callisen, if somewhat modified, was not only practicable, but safe. He soon had an op-