528 DEFORMITIES OF THE .\KCK AND LIMBS. f?ap will be left between the two ends, from half an inch to an inch in width, according to the previous amount of tension in the part. If the muscles have been contracted for some years, it will commonly be found that the fasciae iaj the neighbourhood of the tendon have become rigid and unyielding, forming cords or bands stretching across from the side of the gap. If these be very tense, they may be divided in the same way ; but in many instances it will be found, after a short time, that they will yield by stretching, and consequently will not require division. After the section has been made, th'- small puncture should bo closed with a pad of lint afid a strip of plaster, or some cotton-wool and collodion. The admission of air should be carefully guarded against, lest it carry with it impurities which might give rise to inflammation and suppuration. For the same reason the knife should bo cleaned in carbolic lotion and the skin washed with the same before the opei-a- tion. Even without any antiseptic precautions, however, it is very rarely that suppuration follows subcutaneous tenotomy, if performed with ordinary care. After tenotomy the part should be brought at once into the best possible position and fixed by the use of a suitable splint or other appliance. As a rule the position can subsequently be improved by reapplying the apparatus at intervals and by the use of rubbing and massage ; in this way other tense structures, such as ligaments and fascia3 are gradually stretched. It was at one time the practice'not to begin extension until three or four days after the operation, the view being held that it was advisable to allow the divided ends of the tendon to unite by soft plastic material before any attempt was made to remedy the deformity. Immediate extension, as suggested by Sayre, is now. however, universally adopted. The mode of Repair of Divided Tendons has given rise to some con- troversy, there being two theories with regard to the process. According t:i one the granulation tissue between the divided and retracted ends gradually undergoes a process of contraction, analogous to that which takes place m the cicatrix of a burn, so as to cause approximation of the cut ends of the tendon at the expense of the muscle, which becomes partially lengthened, untd at last merely a transverse linear cicatrix is left at the line of section. Adams has, however, conclusively shown that this theory is erroneous, and that repan-is effected by the formation of vascular granulation tissue between the cut ends, chiefly from the sheath and soft parts around ; that this undergoes gradual development into fibrous tissue ; and that the tendon is actually lengthened and remains permanently so, though perhaps not to the full extent of the gap at first existing between its ends. The new material eventually resembles the normal structure of tendon so closely that the microscope fails to detect any appreciable difi-erence, and it can be distinguished only by its more translucent annearance from the old tendon. In cases of congenital malformation, the question frequently arises whether tenotomy should be performed in early infancy, or delayed to a more advanced a<.e. As a general rule I think that, if operation will certaraly be neceTa^^J,tt should not be delayed : it is not more difficult at an early penod JlfctlL at any other; no danger attends it, and when performed ,„r,„g infancy there is a far less chance of the deformity being permanent, than if he o«ration be delayed for some yeai-s. But it must be remembered 1 mLy^l ght deformities and contractions in infants may be removed withou TperLion, by attention to proper mechanical and hygienic means. The