127 ACCIDENTS AFTER LIGATURE. the artery on the proximal side of the ligature, and that portion of the vessel situated between the ligature and the sac, or the sac itself, as to enable the impulse of the heart to be transmitted in a pulsatory manner into the tumour. Xo regurgitant blood coming upwards from that portion of the artery which IS distal to the sac, however free it may be, can communicate an impulse, as it never flows per salfum except in the special case of a continuous circle of large anastomoses, such as are met with between the arteries within the skull, or in [he palmar and plantar arches. If any of the direct collateral or feeding vessels happen to be sufficiently large at the time of the operation to transmit the wave of blood, the pulsation in the sac will be continuous, or will return almost immediately after the appKcation of the ligature. If they be at first [00 small for this, they may become enlarged as part of the anastomosing circulation, and then the pulsation will return as soon as their calibre is sufficient to transmit the heart's impulse. Besides these conditions it is not improbable, as was supposed by Porter, that certain states of ^ the blood may, from causes with which we are unacquainted, render it less liable than usual [Q coagulate, and thus dispose to a return of the pulsation in the sac, which remains filled with fluid blood. The phenomenon under consideration has been noticed in all parts of the body after the performance of the Hunterian operation, though it occurs with different degrees of frequency after the ligature of different arteries, and is certainly of more common occurrence after operations for carotid aneurism than for any other form of the disease. Thus, of 31 cases in which the carotid artery was tied for aneurism, I find that pulsation in the tumour continued or returned in 9 instances ; whereas of 92 cases of inguinal aneurism, in which the external iliac artery was ligatured, the pulsation recurred in 6 cases only ; and in several of these it is interesting to note that there were two aneurismal sacs in the same limb—one in the groin, the other in the ham ; and that the pulsation, though permanently arrested in the popliteal, recurred in the in- guinal aneurism. In the ham and axilla, pulsation occasionally, though very rarely, recurs. This difference in the frequency of the recurrence of pulsation in different aneurisms is evidently owing to the different degrees of freedom of communication that exist between the sac and the collateral branches in various forms of the disease : thus in a carotid aneurism, the im- pulse of the heart may at once be brought to bear upon the contents of the sac, through the medium of the circle of "Willis. But, in the case of inguinal, femoral, or popliteal aneurism, the anastomoses, consisting rather of the in- osculations of terminal branches than of open communications between large trunks, are less likely to transmit the blood in a pulsatory stream. For the same reason—the great freedom of the communication between the vessels of opposite sides—the pulsation has more frequently been found to continue un- interruptedly and distinctly, though reduced in force, after the ligature of the artery in carotid aneurisms, than in those in any other situation. The cases in which it returns after the cessation of a few hours only are perhaps as frequent in the groin and ham as in the neck. In those instances in which the pulsation returns within the first twenty-four hours after the ligature, it usually ceases again in a few days, though it sometimes continues a week or two. When it recurs at a later period, it is apt to last somewhat longer. CJompression antecedent to the ligature may so enlarge the collateral vessels as to favour a continuance or return of pulsation. I have once known the pulsation continue, though very much lessened, in a popliteal aneurism, after