RHINOPLASTY. ^57 of three processes may be adopted to remedy the deformity : 1. When a small Ition only of the free border of the tip has been lost (Fig. 705), an mc.sion should be made across the nose, and the remains of the ala f^^d a portion of the nasal integument thus marked out dissected down, and attached to the end of the oro-an. In this way a very excellent result may be obtained. 2 If the loss of substance be greater, a flap of skin, of the proper shape, may be raised from the cheek, applied to the previously pared edges ot the part requiring it, and fixed there by a few points of fine suture. 3. If the loss of the substance of the ala be very considerable, or if it extend to a part of the body of the nose, other plans, presently to be described, are required for the repair of the deformity. Entire Nose.—For the restoration of the entire nose, two ]^rocedures have been employed : viz., 1, the Tagliacotian Operation ; 2, the Indian Operation, variously modified. 1. The Tagliacotian Operation consists in taking the integument and areolar tissue required for the repair of the lost organ from the inside of the arm. Here a flap of sufii- cient extent is to be marked out and dissected up with its subjacent areolar tissue, leaving it merely attached to the limb by a root at its distal end. Some Surgeons attach the 'flap at once to the raw surface, but others recommend that this should not be done for at least a fortnight,_ during ^.^ which time it should be kept upon a piece of wet lint, and of AiaofNose. allowed to thicken and granulate. The remains of the deformed nose having then been properly pared and the flap shaped, they must, after all bleeding has ceased, be properly adjusted and fixed to one another by points of suture. The arm must then be closely attached to the head, so as to be as nearly as possible immovable. At the end of about ten days, when adhesions have taken place, the connecting medium is cut across, and the part left to be supported by the vitality which it may gain from the new surface to which it is now attached. The uncertainty of maintaining r,he vitahty in the flap, the constrained position in which it is necessary to keep the patient, and the great difiiculty of guarding against movements of the arm, especially during sleep, have caused this plan of procedure to be almost universally abandoned. 2. The Indian Operation, a knowledge of which was brought to this country by Carpue in 1814, is extremely successful in its results, though requiring a good deal of nicety for its proper execution. The operative pro- cedures required in this method may conveniently be divided into three stages : 1, the Dissection of the Flap from the Forehead, and its Attachment to its new situation ; 2, the Separation of the Root of the Flap where it is turned down from the Forehead, and the Formation of a proper Bridge to the Xose ; .3, the Formation of the Columna Nasi. 1. Formation and Attachment of the Flap.—In the shaping of the flap, care must be taken that it is of sufficient size ; as during the after-part of the treatment it often has a tendency to shrink. The size adapted to the particular face may best be judged of by moulding a thin piece of gutta-percha to the nose, then flattening it out by dipping it in hot water, and using this US the guide for marking the outline of the flap upon the forehead. This should be traced with tincture of iodine, which will not be washed ofl:' so VOL. II. ' u u