288 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. Affections of the medulla.—Acute osteomyelitis following injuries of bone is a not uncommon cause of necrosis, especially after amputations (p. 202), or should the condition arise without injury (p. 208) the same result takes place. Necrosis may also be caused by tuberculous osteomyelitis (p. 204). In some cases necrosis occurs in old people without any evident cause, being then apparently simply the result of old age. This I have seen occur in the lower ends of the humerus and tibia, giving rise to rapid and usually fatal disorganization of the neighbouring joints, or to death from exhaustion after profuse suppuration. This Senile Necrosis may be looked upon as the counterpart in the bone of senile sloughing or gangrene in the soft parts. Characters.—In whatever way it originates, necrosis may affect the outer laminae only of the bone, when it may be called perijj/ieral; or the iimermost layers that surround the medullary canal may perish, and then it may be termed central; or the whole thickness of a shaft, or of the substance of a short bone, may lose its vitality, and the necrosis is then spoken of as total. The necrosed portion of bone, called the Sequestrum, presents peculiar characters, by which its nature may at once be recognized. It is of a dirty yellowish-white colour, and has a dull opaque look, and, after exposure to the air, it gradually acquires a deep brown or black tint; the margins are ragged, and more or less spiculated, and the free surface is tolerably smooth, but its attached surface is very irregular, rough, and uneven, presenting an eroded or worm-eaten appearance. This eroded appearance is very marked in sequestra that form in the interior of the terminal end of the femur in a thigh-stump after amputation, and is well illustrated by Fig. 29, where the lower smooth part is composed of the whole thickness of the bone, whilst the upper rough and spiculated portions consist of the central layers of bone separated from the outer layer, and hence their eroded external surface. Wlien the sequestrum forms in the cancellous tissue, it is usually of a blackish-grey colour, and irregular or ovoid in shape. When the necrosis has been the result of an acute inflammatory process, as osteomyelitis or infective periostitis, the bony tissue of which it is composed has exactly the appearance of a corresponding piece of healthy bone macerated after death. On the other hand, when the death of a piece of bone has been a complication arising during some chronic inflammatory process, the sequestrum bears evidence of the previous disease upon it. Thus, if it result from osteoplastic osteitis, it is denser than natural; if from rare- factive osteitis, as is commonly the case in necrosis of the cancellous tissue, it is lio-hter and more porous than the normal structure, and often eaten out mto irregular cavities, or it may present patches of calcification in the cancellous ^^Symptoms.—The symptoms of necrosis are divisible into three distinct periods In the first they are those of the disease in consequence of which the death of the portion of bone has taken place, being acute m acute diffuse periostitis or osteomyelitis, chronic in chronic periostitis and osteitis, tuber- culous caries, or in syphilitic caries, periostitis or subperiosteal gummata. in the second period the primary disease having ceased, the process of separation of the dead bone from the Hving takes place with the formation of a suppura- ting layer of granulation tissue at the expense of the latter, and simu taneously nevv bone is formed from the periosteum to maintain the rigidity of the part