SPEC I A L A NEUR IS MS. been noticed ft)r three months and had been rapidly extending for five weeks. It filled the front and inner side of the npper third of the thigh, and extended for three inches into the iliac fossa. The external iliac and common femoral were pushed inwards two inches. The external iliac was tied but the patient died on the fifth day of pneumonia. In the case which was under my care in the Hospital, the disease was recognized by the following signs, which are characteristic of it : 1. A large tumour extended from three inches below Poupart's ligament to the middle of the thigh, raising and slightly separating the adductor muscles and the rectus femoris. 2. All the ordinary aneurismal signs were present in this tumour—the most marked being a peculiarly loud and harsh bruit, and a dry forcible thrill. 3. The superficial femoral artery could be felt running over the anterior and inner aspect of the tumour, but distinct from it. 4. The pulsation in the popliteal and its divisions was normal. 5. All the aneurismal signs ceased on compressing the common femoral artery, and returned on removing the pressure. The only disease with which an aneurism of the deep femoral artery can readily be confounded is pulsating sarcoma of the femur. The diagnosis from this must be left to the surgical tact of the practitioner. In the Treatment of these aneurisms, the Surgeon has the choice of three methods : viz., compression in the groin, and hgature of the external iliac, or of the common femoral. If the common femoral ever should be ligatured for aneurism, this appears to me to be the case best suited for it. But the choice between the ligature of this artery or of the external iliac must in a great measure depend upon the Surgeon's judgment as to the relative expediency of either operation, and on the height to which the aneurism extends up the groin. But neither artery should be hgatured until compression has been fairly tried and has failed. This may be done digitally or by Carte's instru- ment, where the artery passes over the brim of the pelvis. It is especially likely to succeed in aneurism of the profunda, owing to the shortness of the trunk and the way in which it breaks up into many anastomosing branches. Hence there is not a free current of blood passing from one large vessel of entry to another of exit, but, as it is broken up and has to filter out through a number of minor vessels, its coagulation may readily be brought about. In the case treated by me, compression effected a cure in twenty-four hours, though the aneurism was very large and active. Aneueisms of the Superficial Femoral and Popliteal Arteries.— These occur commonly about the middle period of life, and are ahnost invariably met with in males, being at least twenty times more frequent in them than in women. Both sides are affected with equal frequency, and occasionally at the same time. According to Crisp, sailors would appear to be more liable to this variety of the disease than any other class. These aneurisms are most frequently sacculated ; in the ham they are always so, but in the thigh they are sometimes tubular. Symptoms.—T\q symptoms of Femoral Aneurism present nothing pecuhar ; the tumour usually enlarging with considerable rapidity, with all the characteristic signs of the disease, and assuming a more or less regular ovoid shape Popliteal Aneurism usually commences with stiffness and a good deal of pain about the ham and knee, which I have more than once seen mistaken for rheumatism ; in fact, so commonly does this happen thatjhe