iJANCER OF BREAST: RECURRENCE AFTER OPERATION. 8ti considerable, aad notwithstanding the more extensive character of the opera- tions now performed, the death-rate at the present time is very low. Ihe movalTf ?he fat and glands from the axilla necessarily adds to the severity of the operation, but of the three risks-hemorrhage entrance of air nto a vein and deep cellulitis-the two first are extremely rare, and the last is almost certainly preventible if the axilla is thoroughly cleaned out proper drainage provided, and strict asepsis maintained. Erysipelas and septicemia have almost been abolished from the causes of death after excision of the breast. The danger of the operation increases in proportion as the patient s c^eneral health has become undermined by the continuance of the malignant disease. Women who have small mammae with little fat bear the operation better than those with large breas^.s, in whom the areolar tissue is loaded with soft yellow fat. , . , , ^ The older statistics concerning the mortality of the operation cannot be applied to the present day. From 16 and 20 per cent, the death-rate has been reduced to 5 per cent, and less. At University College Hospital, during the years 1881 and 1890 inclusive, the breast alone was excised m 34 cases without a death, and of 117 cases in which, the axillary glands were simultaneously removed, 13>orll-l per cent., died, by far the larger number being m the first half of that period, .In the four years- 1891 to 1894, 76 operations were performed, in almost'all of which the axilla was cleared, with 5 deaths, giving a mortahty of 6-5 per cenf). Many long series of cases Without a death have been recorded by different Surgeons, and at the present day the complete operation cannot .be condemned on the ground of increased mortality, ' ■.; There are two dangers which attend excision of the breast rather more frequently than other operations : viz., 1st, a congestive form of pneumonia, not dependent on any blood-poisoning, but arising from defective aeration occasioned by the breathing being shallow and restrained either by tight bandaging of the chest, or by the pain induced by the movement of the chest-walls in respiration ; and 2nd, cardiac thrombosis extending into the pulmonary artery. I have known several instances of death, from each of these causes. The first danger can obviously be guarded against ; the second cannot. ' \ .' The operation, especially when portions of the pectoral muscles are removed, is usually followed by some impairnient in the use of the limb, which can rarely be raised above the horizontal position. Neuralgic pains in the arm •and slight oedema of the hand are occasionally met with. Reciirrence of the Disease af ber Operation may take place in three situations : in the mammary regiom; in the tieighbouring lymphatic glands '; or in some internal organ or distant part. Local recurrence is doubtless due, in the majority of cases, to the presence of cancer-cells in the lymphatics Which ■escaped removal at the time of the operation. It is, however, possible that in some instances the return of the disease takes place in fragments of breast- tissue which were already in process of development into cancer when the breast was incompletely removed. The recurrent growth may occur in the scar, in the surrounding skin, or in the deeper structures, and in cases in which primary union fails it may spring up in the granulating surface. When the cicatrix itself is affected it assumes a dusky-red or purplish tinge, becoming hard, stony, and nodulated at points ; these nodules being round or