1 76 DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. than in any other situation, except, perhaps, the face. When occurring on those parts that are covered hy hair, they are almost invariably prominent and subcutaneous ; when seated on the forehead, or on the bare skin behind tlie ears, they are often cutaneous. The ordinary subcutaneous uaevus of the scalp can, as a rule, be safely treated by excision. In general, it is better to remove the skin over the niGvus by an elliptical incision. It is not only troublesome to reflect the skin, but it is likely to be attended with considerable haemorrhage. In excising the naevus with the skin over it the bleeding is rarely difficult to arrest by ligature and pressure. The edges of the wound must be brought together as completely as possible with silver wire and horse-hair sutures. If the ligature be employed care must be taken in passing the needles not to include the epicranial aponeurosis, or troublesome cellulitis and perhaps suppuration may occur beneath it. Those flat nasvi which are situated behind the ear are best treated with Paquelin's cautery, or by the application of nitric acid. Naevus of the rontanelle is the most important variety of the scalp naevus, and may constitute a somewhat formidable disease. A large purple tumour is situated over the anterior fontanelle, rising and falling with the pulsations of the brain communicated to it, and becoming tease when the child cries. The tumour is evidently close upon the membranes of the brain, and this often deters practitioners from interfering with it; and I have not unfrequently seen cases in which the parents of the child have been counselled not to allow any operation to be practised, lest death should result. Electrolysis or puncture with Paquehn's cautery may, however, safely be f] practised, due care being taken not to penetrate the membrane of the fontanelle. Excision of the smaller tumours can quite safely be done, for the growth is in reality altogether confined to the scalp. If the ligature be employed there is some risk of wounding the mem- branes of the brain in passing the ligatures under the tumour. If nasvus needles or sharp-pointed instruments of any kind be used, this accident will be very likely to occur ; it may always be avoided by operating in the following way. A puncture is made in front of the tumour through the healthy scalp. An eyed probe, armed with a double ligature, is then pushed through this opening across the base of the tumour, and its end is made to project on the opposite side beyond it; here another puncture is made, and the probe and ligature together are drawn through. The same procedure is adopted across the tumour sideways. In this way, a quadruple ligature is passed across the tumour in two opposite directions ; the ends are then disengaged, and the ligature is tightened in the ordinary way. Navi of the Face are of very common occurrence, and usually cause much disfigurement. The treatment to be adopted necessarily varies greatly, according to the nature of the n^vus, whether cutaneous, subcutaneous, or both ; and especially according to its situation. We shall, accordingly, consider the treatment of these vascular growths, as they affect the eyelids, the nose, the cheeks and the lips. Nzevus of the Eyelids is usually cutaneous, consisting of a discoloration or staining, as it were, of the Ud, without any material swelling. Such a disease is, I think, better left untouched ; it cannot, of course, be removed either by the knife or by caustics, without producing worse results ; and, as the skin is always deeply involved, milder means are inoperative, or