[- w ill PLASTIC OPERATIONS. 653 Listoii, 8yme, Fergusson, Bedillofc, Langeiibeck, Jobert, and Wolfe deservedly ake the first rank. lu performing the various plastic operations five methods have been ■luployed. In the first, the flap of the skin that is intended to repair the lost .cructure is transplanted from a distant part, as the arm. This operation, utroduced by the Italian Surgeon Tagliacotius in the sixteenth century, and lence commonly called by his name, has in a great measure fallen into disuse, 111 account of the difficulty of its execution, and the great uncertainty of .bfcaiuing a successful result. The second plan, which was first practised by i. Lawson and subsequently by Wolfe, of Glasgow, consists in the transplan- ation of a piece of skin of considerable si/e from one part of the body to mother, the transplanted portion being completely separated at the time of :lie operation, and carefully freed from every trace of subcutaneous fat with a air of sharp flat scissors. Thiersch's method of skin-grafting (Yol. I., p. 278), hich may be regarded as a modification of this plan, is now largely employed remedying defects about the cheeks and eyelids. The third plan consists in transplanting the reparative structure from some part in the neighbourhood jf the organ to be repaired: the skin from the forehead, for instance, being used for the formation of a new nose; that from the chin for the restoration of a >st hp. This procedure, which seems first to have been adopted by the natives of India in repairing the loss of the nose, has been most commonly Employed in this country in plastic operations on the face. The fourth method consists in loosening the skin by a process of subcutaneous section to some distance around the part to be repaired, and then drawing it forwards with or Aithout incision through its substance. This gliding operation is chiefly practised for the closure of fistulous openings. The fifth method is employed in cases where an abnormal fissure exists in a part. It consists in bringing together and uniting the edges of the fissure, after having pared them evenly, 50 as to expose their vascular surfaces. Union in plastic operations should take place by the first intention. Should this fail, however, the Surgeon need not despair; as the parts may unite .by granulation in a very satisfactory and complete manner. For proper union to be obtained, it is necessary that the edges be cleanly and evenly cut, so as to adjust themselves accurately to one another. This may often best be effected by making the incision in the part that is to receive the flap somewhat bevelled, thus securing a more accurate adaptation nf the edges. After the flap has been formed and the part in which it is to be transplanted properly pared, the operation should be delayed a few minutes until all bleeding has ceased. This is of much importance, as the interposition of a layer of blood-clot will materially interfere with union. In bringing the parts into apposition, great care must be taken that no undue traction be exercised, lest their circulation be interfered with, and their vitality be endangered. The parts may be maintained in apposition by sutures. These should be as fine as possible, introduced with a small needle, and knotted on the sound parts. Horse-hair, fine catgut or silkworm-gut will be lound the best materials where there is no strain on the sutures ; should there unavoidably be some strain a deep metallic stitch should be passed to relieve the finer sutures. Occasionally hare-lip pins may advantageously be used. The use of collodion, where applicable, is of great advantage, as it not only secures adhesion, but, by excluding the air, lessens the chance of suppuration. If the J