DISEASES OF THE EAR. 584 with in cases of chronic ear disease in which no clinical evidences of intra- cranial complications were present. Barker has recorded two cases of this nature, in both of which there was mastoid disease, and in one pus in the lateral salens. In another case under the care of Saiusbury and Battle symptoms suggestive of cerebral abscess, including double optic neuritis, were completely relieved by treatment of the tympanum and mastoid cells. In endeavouring to decide whether a suspected abscess of the brain is in the temporal lobe or in the cerebellum, it must be remembered that in eithei- position no localizing symptoms are, as a rule, present. A large abscess iu the temporal lobe may occasion weakness of the opposite side of the body from pressure on the motor cortex or internal capsule, paralysis of the third nerve and, when the left side is aflfected, aphasia. In two cases of large cerebellar abscess Macewen noted a condition of extreme depression and prostration with retraction of the head, and extremely feeble slow pulse and respiration. There was also rigidity of the masseter, and in one case paralysis of the arm and leg on the same side as the lesion. Treatment.—Considering the severity of the symptoms occasioned by the accumulation of decomposing discharges in the tympanum and mastoid, it will usually be advisable to open these freely before proceeding to other measures. If the symptoms point clearly to abscess of the brain, the only chance of saving the patient is to trephine and let out the pus. This operation has now been performed in a large number of cases by Hulke, Barker, Caird, Macewen, Bergmann, and others. The first case in which a cerebral abscess secondary to ear disease was diagnosed from localizing symptoms and operated upon during life was under the care of Macewen in 1881. The patient, who was in extremis at the time of the operation, died six hours afterwards. The first successful case was that performed by A. E. Barker on a patient under the care of Gowers in 1886. The abscess contained nearly an ounce of foetid pus, yet the patient perfectly recovered without any apparent impairment of function. Barker recommends that the mastoid foramen should be ex- amined as a preliminary step. If the vein passing through it is thrombosed, or if pus is escaping beside it, it is probable that the collection of pus is below the tentorium. If there is reason to beheve the abscess to be in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, Barker advises that the pin of the trephine be placed an inch and a quarter above a line drawn from the lower margin of the orbit through the centre of the meatus of the ear, and the same distance behmd the centre of the auditory meatus (Fig. 66-1 D). The dura mater must be divided, any branches of the meningeal artery being hgatured and the substance of the brain examined by means of a hollow needle thrust in various directions, or better, with a special instrument devised by Horsley which has fine blades which can be slightly separated after it is pushed into the brain. If pus is found, the opening may be enlarged by means of sinus- forceps, and a drainage-tube inserted. A metal tube about the size of a No. 8 catheter was used in Barker's case and found to keep in better than the ordinary india-rubber tube. If the abscess is in the cerebellum. Barker has found by observations on the dead body that the best point to apply the pin of the trephine is an inch and a half behind the centre of the meatus, and an inch below a line drawn from the lower border of the orbit through the centre of the meatus of the