CALCULUS IN THE FEMALE. 1103 Tesical calculi in the female are often nothing more than phosphatic in- rnstations deposited around some foreign body that has, either accidentally ,r from depraved motives, been passed up the urethra. In this way hair- ,ins, pieces of bougie, of catheter, or of pencil, will often be found to form he nucleus of the concretion. The Symptoms of stone in the female closely resemble those that occur u the male, and its presence may usually be easily detected by means of a !ort and nearly straight sound, or a female catheter. It is often simulated ry closely by the irritation occasioned by a vascular urethral caruncle, or y an irritable bladder. The larger calculi can be felt from the vagina if inn pressure be made at the same time above the pubes. Large calculi may be met with in very young female children. I have omoved a uric acid calculus encrusted with phosphates, measuring 1^ inch u length by f inch in breaclth, from a little girl four years old. The stone ,vas removed unbroken, by gradual dilatation of the urethra. In the adult they may attain a very large size. I have extracted one measuring 8 inches in Its long, and 6 inches in its short circumference from a young woman. Calculus in the female bladder, if allowed to remain unrelieved, will occasion :he same morbid conditions in the urinary organs as occur in the male. The -.tone may be discharged spontaneously through the urethra—if of small size, u ithout any bad results following ; but if large, by a process of ulceration, in bonsequence of which permanent incontinence of urine will remain. It may ■ilough through into the vagina; or lastly, it may offer a serious obstacle luring parturition to the descent of the foetal head, when, if it cannot be ;iushed aside to be dealt with afterwards, it must be cut out, or craniotomy must be performed. Treatment.—A stone may be extracted from the female bladder by one of three methods : 1, by Dilatation of the Urethra ; 2, by Lithotrity ; 3, by Lithotomy. These different operations cannot be employed indiscriminately, but each one is more especially adapted to certain kinds of calculus. 1. Dilatation of the Urethra is the simplest method and is available for the removal of small stones. The dilatation may best be performed with Hegar's uterine dilators. In this way the canal can, in the adult, easily be dilated sufficiently to allow the introduction of the index finger and the extraction with forceps of a stone eight or ten lines in diameter, without any evil results. In the removal of moderate-sized calculi, however, the great oljjection to the operation is the liability to incontinence of urine resulting from it. This is not by any means necessarily complete ; but a weakened state of the bladder results, so that the patient cannot hold her urine for more than an hour or two at the most. 2. Lithotrity should as a general rule be practised in cases in which the stone is of moderate size, but too large to be removed whole through the dilated urethra. The operation requires to be practised on the same principles as in the male, but differs in certain details. The chief obstacle consists in the difficulty with which the bladder retains urine or water that is injected into it. In consequence-of this there may not only be great difficulty in seizing liie stone, the bladder collapsing and falling into folds around it, but also danger of injuring the mucous membrane with the hthotrite. In order to l ause the bladder to retain the necessary quantity of urine, the pelvis must be well tilted up, and the urethra compressed against the lithotrite by the