984 DiSEASEiS OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS: tlaps of skin in their vicinity should be &xvmoi\ l^cf ^i.. i • . and constitute the basis of a fresh pile "ot hi 7 ''''''''^^> made to cut iu Hues radiating from the anus nnTl , '1''''"'' ^""'^ removed lest a strictured .n.u Ts. h Tf? t "^"'^ '''^ the haemorrhage may r adily be <u^^c^d bv L TT 'I ''''''''^ ^'^^ loss of blood ev»„ „, the hands of most disti„guisl,ed Surgeons. peitormed . Ihe patient, having had his bowels cleared out by a dose 0 castor-oil on the day preceding that fixed for the operation should have an abundant enema of warm water administered abou an hour before the Surgeon arrives; he should then be directed to sit for half an hour on a bidet, or over a pan con- taining hot water, bearing down at the same time, so as to cause the piles to protrude. When all is ready, he should be laid on a table on his left side, with the nates well projecting Ihe burgeon commences by steadily stretching the sphincter with his two thumbs. This aids the prolapse of the piles, and 18 said to dimmish the subsequent pain. The piles are then separately seized with ring-forceps (Fig. 828), three or four pairs of which should be at hand. Each pile is then ligatured Pig. S28.-Ring ^^onnd Its base with a stout silk ligature, which should be tied Forceps. as tightly as possible, so that the pile may at once be effectually •1 ^. . strangled. Before applying the ligature the base of the pile should be snipped through with curved scissors where the mucous membrane joins the skin, thus leaving a deep groove for the reception of the igature, which then constricts only the substance and mucous surface of the hsemorrhoid. When all the tumours requiring ligature have been tied, the superficial part of each strangulated pile may be cut off with scissors, and the stump carefully touched with chloride of zinc lotion (gr. 40 to ^j), care being taken to avoid the surrounding mucous membrane. Iodoform in crystal may then be well rubbed into the raw surface. The ends of the ligatures must next be cut off close, and the strangulated mass pushed back into the bowel. If there be any external piles, these must now be cut off ; for, unless this be done, they become irritated and swollen, and constitute a source of much distress. A morphia suppository is administered and the patient must now return to bed. and should keep the recumbent posture until the ligatures separate, which usually happens from the sixth to the eighth day, when an ulcerated surface will be left, which, however, speedily contracts and closes. In some cases this process may be facilitated by the application of the nitrate of silver through a specu- lum ani. On the sixth or seventh day after the operation the bowels may be opened with a dose of castor-oil ; uutil then they should be kept from acting