IRRITABILITY OF THE BLADDER. m? various astringent injections are sometimes of use, such as tannin (gr. j to 3 j); acetate of lead (gr. 1 to 3]) ; or nitrate of silver (gr. I to Jj). " tl^lo..^^i^ antiseptic or astringent injections, medjcal treatment may also be carried out. The greatest benefit will be derived from stimn at- incv and balsamic diuretics such as buchu, uva ursi, and triticum repens ; but these remedies are useless, unless taken in quantities of a pint or a pint and a half in the day. The best of these is buchu. The infusion should be made freshly every day by putting half an ounce of the leaves in a tea-pot and pour- in- a pint of boiling water on them. It should be taken cold, and the whole pint consumed in the 24 hours. When the disease is very chronic no remedy appears to me to possess so much influence over the mere ropy mucoid dis- charo-e as the balsam of copaiba. Turpentine, cubebs, and tincture of the sesqitichloride of iron, will be found useful. It is often difficult to say before- hand which diuretic will suit best, and I can lay down no precise rules to guide the practitioner in this respect. But they may often be tried or alternated with advantage. In many cases great relief is obtained from each new remedy, but it is not maintained. The diet must be very carefully attended to ; no hot or spiced food should be allowed, and little or no salt. Alcohohc stimulants are better entirely avoided, but should any be required weak gin, or Hollands and water, or whisky and water are the best. Coffee must be strictly forbidden, but weak tea may be taken. Much benefit may often be derived from a pure milk diet for some weeks if the patient can bear it; if it prove too rich the cream may be taken off. A course of one of the alkaline mineral waters may sometimes prove of service, especially in gouty subjects. The body must be warmly clothed and all exposure to cold avoided. IREITABILITY OF THE BLADDER. Irritability of the Bladder is not a disease ; it is merely a symptom. It is of very frequent occurrence and is met with at all ages, and arises from a great variety of causes. It consists in a frequent desire to pass water, not dependent on an increase in the quantity of the secretion. The desire is usually so urgent as to amount to actual pain, and in extreme cases it is impossible to delay the act by any voluntary effort. The urine is generally ejected forcibly, or even spasmodically, and in small quantities at a time. It may or may not be attended with strangury, according to the cause and the part affected. Strangury is most marked in those cases in which it is due to disease of the prostate or neck of the bladder. In some persons frequency of mictu- rition may be merely a habit. It then occurs in the day only. If a patient is disturbed more than once at night to pass water true irritability exists. The Causes of irritability of the bladder differ somewhat as the affection occurs in men, in women, or in children. In men they may be arranged under the following heads :— 1. Morbid Condiiions of the Urine.—If this secretion be preternaturallj acid and loaded with urates or uric acid, it is especially apt to occasion an irritation of the bladder, attended with pain and a frequent desire to micturate. Urine containing oxalates in large quantity is sometimes, though more rarely, a source of irritability of the bladder, which in these cases is perhaps increased by the morbidly sensitive state oi the nervous system sometimes co-existing