^54 HERNIA. possibly be closed by one of the methods subsequently to be considered • and 2 lo resect the gangrenous portion of the gut and restore the continuity of the gut by suture. After these methods have been described, their relative advantages will be discussed. 1. If it be decided to make an artificial anus, the stricture should he divided in the usual way, great care being taken to disturb as little as possible any adhesions which may have formed about the neck of the sac. Travers and Lawrence thought that the division of the stricture was unnecessary • wiiile Dupuytren, Astley Cooper, and Key (with whom I concur), advised that it should be done. A free incision should next be made into the protruded portion of bowel which must be left unreduced, so as to allow the escape of faeces; and the wound left open and covered by an absorbent dressing. The gut in the vicmity of the stricture is retained in situ by masses of plastic exudation, which prevent the peritoneal cavity from being opened. If the intestine should already have given way before the operation is performed, the stricture must be divided, and the part then left unreduced, care being taken to interfere as little as possible with any adhesions lying inside the neck of the sac. When only a small portion of the bowel is gangrenous, the better plan is to return it just beyond the mouth of the sac, without laying it open ; but it should not be pushed any distance into the cavity of the abdomen ; the pressure of the surrounding parts will prevent extravasation. When the slough separates, it will probably be discharged into the cavity of the intestine; and the aperture resulting will be closed by the adhesions that extend between its margin and the abdominal wall. A modification of the method of treatment above described consists in freely drawing down the bowel, excising the gangrenous portion, and suturing the ends of the gut to the skin incision. 2. During recent years, the operation of removing the gangrenous portion of the gut and uniting the intestine by suture as originally performed with success by Ramdohr in 1727, has been revived and repeatedly performed by Billroth, Czerny, Kocher, Hagedorn, and Mikulicz, and in this country by R. Parker, Lockwood, Kendal Franks, Arbuthnot Lane, and others. In adopting this method, the wound must be sufficiently enlarged to allow the intestine to be exposed well beyond the gangrenous area. The details of the operation will be the same as in enterectomy performed for rupture of the intestine or for tumour (see Vol. I. p. 886, and "Vol. II. p. 934). Before approximating the ends, the contents of the loaded upper part of the bowel should be allowed to escape, but the greatest care must be taken not to allow fjecal matter to enter the peritoneum. The incisions in the bowel must be made well beyond the damaged area, as it is far better to remove a few inches of healthy gut than to put sutures in a part which is already swollen, softened, and congested. No mesentery should be removed unless its vitality has suffered from strangulation. In endeavouring to draw a comparison between these two methods of treating gangrenous intestine, it must in the first place be observed that the mortality following the formation of an artificial anus is very high. In 40 cases collected by Lockwood from the Reports of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, the death rate was 90 per cent.; and of 202 cases tabulated by Kendal Franks,