DIGITAL COMPRESSION-ESMAIiCirS BANDAGE. 143 I think we may conclude that, though in some few cases neither ligature i. or compression can be adopted, and amputation is the solo resource, yet m others compression can be employed when it would not be safe to have recourse to the lio-ature : and that, m all ordinary cases of femoral and popliteal aneurism especfally, compression should be preferred to the ligature, inasmuch as it is not a more tedious method of cure, while it is infinitely safer. At the same time, it must not be forgotten that its success depends very greatly ,»u the continuous care bestowed upon the case during the progress ot the treatment. . ^ ,■, ^ , . f Digital Compression.—Shortly after the introduction of the treatment ot aneurism by instrumental compression, the fingers were used as an adjunct to the mechanical means in use. Thus Greatrex, in 1845, directed a patient to keep up compression by means of the fingers, where the tourniquet had been used, and required to be loosened. In 1846 Yanzetti, then Professor of Surgery at Charkofi*, tried, but unsuccessfully, to cure a large popliteal aneurism by compression of the femoral with the fingers only, continued for two days. It was not until seven years later, when Professor at Padua, that Yanzetti had an opportunity of putting this method successfully in practice, and to establish it as a distinct means of curing aneurisms. Bat although this merit is undoubtedly due to Yanzetti, we must credit Knight of Newhaven (U. S. A.) with the first successful case—he having, in 1848, cured a very large popliteal aneurism by digital compression, maintained for forty hours. In this plan of treating aneurisms, no apparatus of any kind is used ; bub the circulation through the artery leading to the tumour is controlled by the pressure of the finger. In order to carry it out there must be relays of assistants, each of whom compresses the vessel for about ten minutes at a time. The pressure should be appUed in the way that is represented in Fig. 19, Yol. I., p. 53. The fatigue may be very materially lessened by placing a 6 or 8 lb. weight on the compressing finger. "With such aid each assistant may be able to keep up the pressure for half an hour at a time. As soon as his fingers become fatigued, but before he relaxes the pressure, another assistant compresses the vessel; and thus the circulation through it may be uninter- ruptedly controlled. In this way aneurisms of the popliteal artery, in the orbit, at the bend of the arm, and in the groin, have been successfully treated —the tumour having in some instances become consolidated in a few hours. The effect of digital compression and the rapidity of cure would be increased by the application of direct pressure to the tumour, and by the previous employment of proper constitutional means ; it might in some cases be very advantageously conjoined with the treatment by flexion. But its chief advantages seem to be, that it is apphcable to arteries, as those at the root of the neck, to which it might be difficult to apply any kind of compressor, and that it can be employed when no apparatus is obtainable. Esmaiich's Elastic Bandage has been used with a certain amount of success in the treatment of external aneurisms. It was first employed in these cases by Sir Walter Reid, R.N. in 1875. Pearce Gould, who has carefully investigated this method of treatment, has collected details of 72 cases in which it has been employed. Of these he finds that ;J5 were cured, in 30 the- treatment was unsuccessful, in 5 death resulted, and in the remaining 2 the result was doubtful.