400 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. Iliac and psoas abscesses require to be diagnosed also from certain forms of meurism of the ahdommal aorta or iliac arteries; which, having become diffused by rupture of their sac, have formed large non-pulsating extravasations in the sheath of the psoas and in the iliac fossa. In such cases the previous history, the absence of distinct fluctuation, and possibly stethoscopic examination' together with the rapid increase of the tumour, will indicate the true nature of the case. In other cases, again, when the abscess, after deeply burrowing, has per- forated the fascia lata, its feel closely resembles that of certain fatty tumours. Here the possibility of diminishing the size of the swelling on pressure, the impulse on coughing, and the absence of a solid edge to the swelling, enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. From femoral hernia the soft and fluctuating character of the swelling, its gradual return when pressure is taken off, its situation external to or below the femoral vessels, and the total absence of gurgling, constitute the chief distinguishing characters. Large serous collections and hydatid tumours are occasionally met with in the iliac fossa and groin, presenting all the characters of chronic abscess; from which, however, the character of the fluid removed by aspiration will immediately distinguish them. Prognosis.—The prognosis is necessarily unfavourable. It has two aspects: 1, As to the persistence of Deformity ; 2. As to the Life of the patient. 1. Deformity.—The angular curvature arising from caries of the bodies of the vertebree is necessarily an incurable deformity. The diseased spine is soldered and held together by fusion of the partly destroyed vertebral bodies; and any attempt at straightening this excurvation would be attended with the greatest risk, from danger of exciting irritation of the spinal meninges, or opening the spinal canal. When excurvation has taken place, there has been loss of substance ; and this cannot be repaired. Hence the spine must remain shortened in front and bent out posteriorly, giving rise to the ordinary forms of hump-back. 2. Life.—So far as life is concerned, the prognosis will depend on several conditions. The flrst is whether the disease is accompanied or not by suppuration. When suppuration occurs, much will depend on the extent of the caries : if several vertebras be affected, so that the curve is very long, the disease is necessarily highly dangerous from the extent of osseous structure im- plicated. It was long ago remarked by Boyer that the most fatal cases were generally those in which the spine preserved its straight position ; whereas, when it was much curved, death seldom resulted. The truth of this remark I have had frequent occasion to verify ; and the circumstance would appear to be owing to the fact that, when the spine continues straight at the same time that the bodies of the vertebrae are tuberculous and carious, ankylosis cannot occur, so that the spinal canal is open and the cord irritated ; whereas, when they have fallen together and very considerable angular deformity has resulted, ankylosis more readily takes place, and thus an imperfect cure is eff"ected. The size of the abscesses, and the amount of discharge from them, must also necessai-ily seriously influence the result. If they be very large, and continu- ously discharging, hectic and consequent death will probably supervene. The presence of sequestra which will not come away, and prevent healing, adds greatly to the gravity of the case.