687 CARCINOMA OF TONGUE: DIAGNOSIS. meat. 2. The profuse salivation still further exliausts the patient. 3. The swallowino- and absorption of the foul discharges lead to chronic septic poisoning : and 4. The occurrence of haemorrhage, when the disease has eroded so deeply as to open up one of the larger branches or trunk of the lingual artery, may, by repeated recurrence or by sudden gush, destroy life. ff cancer of the tongue be allowed to run its natural course uninfluenced by operation, nothing can exceed the misery of the patient's death. When the patient dies by recurrence of the disease after removal, he has probably obtained some months of immunity from suffering. The fatal termination then usually takes place from recuri-ence in the glands of the neck, secondary o-rowths in the viscera being very rare, as in squamous carcinoma of other parts. The enlarged cervical glands gradually reach the skin, soften, and break down, leaving foul cavities, and the patient gi-adually dies exhausted by pain, and poisoned by the absorption of the decomposing discharges. Sometimes the enlarged glands push into the pharynx, obstructing both deglutition and respiration. Still, as a rule, if recurrence in the mouth can be avoided, death is far easier than when due to the primary disease. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of carcinoma of the tongue in its advanced stages is usually easy enough ; the deep foul ulcer, the pain, the fixity of the organ and the enlargement of the lymphatic glands make the nature of the disease unmistakeable. At this period, however, little can be done to cure the patient or even to relieve him. To be of any service to the patient, the diagnosis must be made early, while the disease is still localized, and an operation can be undertaken with some prospect of giving lasting or permanent relief. The diagnosis between the syphilitic gumma and cancer is most important ; here the duration of the disease and the co-existence of constitutional syphilis must be taken into account. It is also of much moment to attend to the mode of commencement and situation of the tumour. The syphilitic gumma commences in the muscular substance of the tongue, and implicates the mucous membrane secondarily ; epithelioma is superficial, commencing in the mucous membrane, and secondarily implicating the deeper structures. It must, however, be remembered that a tongue which has long been the seat of those morbid changes in the way of thickening of its epithelium and ulceration of its mucous membrane, which are common sequelse of syphilis, may at length become affected by carcinoma. The superficial syphilitic ulcerations are usually readily distinguished from carcinoma by their tendency to spread superficially in an irregular manner without extending deeply, by the absence of well defined induration in the base, and often by their multiplicity. The resemblance may, however, be close when a single syphiHtic ulcer on the border of the tongue becomes somewhat indurated by inflammatory thickening. The ulcer left by the breaking down of a gumma may somewhat closely resemble a carcinoma, if it be seen for the first time after the slough has separated. This is especially *rue if the ulcer, as sometimes happens, is situated on the border of the tongue. ^ The induration is, however, less defined ; the edges are often rather undermined than everted, and there is an absence of fixation of the affected part of the tongue which is so common in carcinoma. In the case of a doubtful ulcer the Surgeon must not wait till the nature of the sore becomes evident by enlargement of the glands and extensive implica-