44 DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. LYMPHADENITIS, OR INFLAMMATION OF THE LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Acute Inflammation of the Lymphatic Glands almost invariably results from the irritatiou of some noxious material conveyed to them by the lymphatic vessels. The lymphatics through which it passes on its way to the glands may themselves be inflamed, but more frequently they escape. This fact would seem to indicate that in the majority of cases the irritating matter is particulate and not in solution, for we know from experiment that solid particles pass readily through the lymphatic vessels, but arc arrested in the glands. In every acute inflammation the quantity of lymph passing through the glands in connexion with the affected area is greatly increased. In simple inflammations in a healthy subject this causes slight swelling, which subsides as soon as the cause is removed ; but in scrofulous subjects, as before pointed out, there is a peculiar tendency to inflammation of the lymphatic glands from slight causes, and in them the sweUing may persist and may pass on to suppuration or chronic inflammation. In infective inflammations the inflammatory products contain the special virus to which the inflammation is due, and this being carried by the lymph-stream to che glands may excite a similar process in them. Most specific inflammations are accompanied by the presence of definite microscopic organisms in the exudations, and in such cases the organisms can frequently be demonstrated with the microscope after death in the lymphatic glands nearest to the seat of the disease. As a rule the secondary inflammation in the glands closely resembles in character that at the primary seat of disease. Thus, in cutaneous erysipelas, the glands are Invariably swollen and tender, but seldom suppurate ; in soft chancres, suppuration commonly takes place ; and in diphtheria, the glands are always enlarged and painful, but pus rarely forms, while in scarlet fever suppuration is often very troublesome. In syphilis, the change that takes place in the lymphatic glands is identical with that occurring at the seat of inoculation; and the same is the case in secondary tuberculosis. Some infective inflammations, as hospital gangrene and phlegmonous erysipelas, have but little tendency to infect the glands. This is possibly due to coagulation of the lymph in the spaces of the inflamed area. In the majority of cases there is no difficulty in discovering the source of the irritation which has caused the glands to inflame. In scrofulous subjects, however, the effect may be produced by causes so comparatively slight that their detection becomes proportionately difficult. In some cases it appears to arise simply in consequence of a strain, as from over-walking. In childi-en the glands are more prone to suppurate from slight sources of irritation during convalescence from measles or some other acute specific disease. Pathological Anatomy.—In acute inflammation the gland is swollen, and at first pink in colour and soft. At a later stage yellow points of commencing suppuration will be observed, both in the medullary and the cortical part. At a still later period the greater part of the gland may be hollowed out mto a cavity filled with pus. The appearances of subacute inflammation are much the same as in the acute. The microscope shows the usual changes observed in aU inflammations ; the vessels are distended, and the gland is crowded everywhere with multitudes of small round cells. These very early choke the lymph-sinuses. As these cells exactly resemble the normal corpuscles of the o-land, it is impossible to determine whether they are formed by multiphcation