SPECIAL ANEURLSMS. artery has been lio-atured for supposed aneurism in several instances when no such disease existed—cysts, or other tumours of the neck having been mistaken for aneurism, and tliis by Surgeons of acknowledged skill. The diagnosis of aneurism of the lower part of the carotid from similar disease of other arteries at the root of the neck, as of the subclavian, vertel)ral, and innominate, and the arch of the aorta, is surrounded with difficulties. lu some aneurisms of the arch of the aorta, the sac rises into the neck, so as closely to simulate a carotid aneurism, as in the annexed cut (Fig, 474). In siicli cases. Holmes suggests that the effect produced by carefully applied distal pressure may aid in the diagnosis. If, after a few hours, when the collateral circulation should be commencing to enlai-ge, the sac shows no sigus of diminished tension, the case is very probably one of aortic aneurism. The principal affections of the neck, however, with which aneurism of the carotid may be confounded, are varix of the internal jugular vein, enlarged lymphatic glands, abscesses, tumours, cysts, and pulsating bronchocele. A dilated artery doubled wpon itself may closely resemble an aneurism when situated at the root of the neck. Such a case is recorded by Coulson. It occurred in an old woman of 88. No treatment was adopted, and after death the supposed aneurism was found to be a reduplication of the common carotid surrounded by indurated cellular tissue. In varix the tumour is always soft, does not pulsate expansively, and diminishes in size during a deep inspiration, and on compressing the vein on its distal side. Glandular tumours of the necic are often very difficult to distinguish from aneurism, more particularly when the artery passes through the tumour, so that the whole mass distinctly moves at each pulsation. In these cases also diminution in the size of the tumour on com- pression, by the artery within it being emptied, or by the growth receding into some of the interspaces of the neck. But in the great majority of instances, the globular, oval, and nodulated feel of glandular swellings, and the possibility of raising them up and pushing them away from the vessel— which may best be done by feeling the carotid with the ends of the fingers of one hand, and then pressing upon the tumour with the other—will reveal the true nature of the case. . . From abscess of the necIc the diagnosis must be made on general prmciples. The coexistence of ill-defined hardness and of enlargement of the glands, of an inflamed state of the skin, the ready detection of fluctuation, and the absence of expansile pulsation in the tumour, will show that it is not aneurismal. It is of importance to observe also that an aneurism which fluctuates is always forcibly distended by strong pulsation, and can be materially diminished by pressure, neither of which circumstances can occur in abscess. But if abscess may be mistaken for aneurism, the converse also Fig- 474.—Aneurism of tlie Summit of the Arch of the Aorta, simu- lating Carotid Aneurism. there may be an apparent