ACUTE (EDEMATOUS LARYNGITIS. 727 but as the disease advances the dyspnoea becomes more continuous, until stupor at length supervenes, and speedily terminates in death. There is usually well-marked febrile disturbance. If the finger be passed over the back of the tongue the rigid swollen epiglottis may be distinctly felt. Laryngoscopic xamination shows the epiglottis forming a red semi-trans- parent roll, usually bent upon itself transversely. It may I'ompletely conceal the parts beneath, but in many cases the edematous aryteno-epiglottidean folds may be seen on each side. It is rarely possible to obtain a view of the cords. The cedematous infiltration in this form of laryngitis is confined principally to the submucous areolar tissue around the epiglottis, in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, and over the arytenoid cartilages. In these situations the tissue is distended with an abundant inflammatory exudation, of an opalescent appearance, so that the swollen membrane may almost completely occlude the rima glottidis (Fig. 756). It is a pathological fact of much importance that the effusion never extends below the true vocal cords, being limited at this point by the direct adhesion of the mucous membrane to the subjacent fibrous tissue, without the intervention of .^^^ —Aciue any loose areolar tissue. oiciema of the Glottis. Diagnosis.—It is of great importance to recognize cedema- tous laryngitis early, and not to confound it with simple catarrhal inflammation. The laryngoscope is of the greatest use in arriving at a correct diagnosis. It is somewhat difficult to use in these cases, especially if there be much dyspnoea, but supposing even a momentary glance be obtained of the opening of the glottis, the condition depicted in Fig. 757 may readily be recognized. In addition to this, the occasional epidemic character of the affection, the early dyspnoea, and the dusky swollen fauces will point to the cedematous variety. The Treatment should be antiphlogistic, though in many cases the constitution will not bear very active measures. In some cases aconite, antimony, or salines might be of use, but very often the invasion of the inflammation is so rapid that local means must be relied upon rather than constitutional. In cases where there is much oedema scarification with a sharp-pointed bistoury, sheathed with plaster to within a quarter of an inch of its point, will be found the most ready means of unloading the infiltrated mucous membrane. The operation of scarification may be more accurately performed by using the laryngeal lancet, whilst the glottis is brought into view by the use of the laryngoscope. After this, inhalations of the steam from a pint of hot water to which twenty drops of carbohc acid or a drachm of compound tincture of benzoin has been added, will be found to give most relief. Hot fomentations must be applied externally and frequently changed. In the early stages ice may be sucked and applied externally, bat after the swelling has commenced steaming the throat usually gives more relief. A 10 per cent, solution of cocaine applied directly to the larynx with a brush or used in the form of a ■spray will sometimes prove beneficial. If, notwithstanding these remedies, the difficulty in respiration continues to increase relief must be afforded by intubation or by opening the wind-pipe before the lungs and brain have become