TREATMENT OF INTRATHORACIC ANEURISM. 159 ciToneouslv as innominate, but proving in reality to be aortic aneurism, it has also been done In the three cases of recognised aortic aneurism the opera- liions were done by Barwell, Lediard, and Wyeth. In all, the ox-aorta ligature was used, and the patients lived 15 months, 8^ months, and one year respec- tively after the operation (Barwell). Wyeth tied the left subclavian and ; left carotid in a case of aortic aneurism, but the patient died 72 hours after I the operation. _ ^ n ^i ^ r The ligature of one or more of the main arteries at the root of the neck tor 'the cure of aneurism of the aortic arch involves a new principle in the treat- ment of that disease : one that differs in all respects from that in which the cure of an ordinary external aneurism is effected, viz., the arrest or retarda- <tion of the circulation through the sac so as to facilitate the deposit of laminated fibrin or firm clot. In the treatment of aortic aneurisms by ligature of the left carotid only, or by that of the right carotid at its root, and of the right subclavian in the third part of its course, the operation does not in any , way diminish or retard the flow of blood through the aorta or lessen the quan- ,titysent into the aneurismal sac. Moreover, the ligature of the artery by j interposing abnormal resistance in the circulation would cause increased tension \ in the sac as well as in the arteries generally, until the dilatation of the ' anastomosing vessels had relieved the obstruction. Thus the very reverse of what happens in the Hunterian or ordinary distal operation takes place when one or more of the primary branches of the aortic arch are tied. It has been suggested that coagulation in the aneurism may be the result of the direct i extension of the thrombus into it from the point of ligature. Heath does not accept this explanation, but suggests that an altered condition of circulation through the sac may lead to the deposit of laminated fibrin. That some benefit appears to have followed these operations in a few of the cases is undoubted ; but how much of this may fairly be attributed to the direct influence of the operation appears to me to be very uncertain. For it cannot be doubted that the confinement to bed after the operation, and the more careful and regulated life that would be led by those who had been subjected to so serious a procedure, must exercise a very beneficial influence upon any external aneurism ; and it may fairly be a question whether a patient, subjected to an operation that would require absolute rest for several weeks and subsequently necessitate a quiet and carefully regulated life, would not derive as much benefit as the patients in whose necks large arteries have been tied for the cure of aortic or even of most innominate aneurisms have done. The necessity for hesitation in the adoption of these operations for the cure of aortic aneurism appears to me to be strengthened by the difficulty, in many cases, of making a correct diagnosis of the exact seat of the aneurism, whether it be innominate or aortic, or both, or, if aortic, from what part of the arch it springs ; and also in determining with absolute certainty whether a given intrathoracic tumour be an aneurism or not. The immediate danger of these operations, whether done for aortic or innominate aneurism, is also very considerable. A very large proportion of the patients so operated on died within a fortnight, and in some cases death resulted immediately or within a few hours from the disturbance of the circu- lation through the brain by the ligature of one of the greater arteries springing from the arch.