ANEURISM. I 12 extravasation happen in a limb, this will become greatly swollen, hard, brawny, and cold. The Biiperficial veins are congested, and the circulation in the distal parts of the limb is soon completely arrested by the pressure of the extravasated blood upon its vessels, more particularly the large venous trunks. In consequence of this, moist gangrene usually makes its appearance, and speedily destroys the i)atient'8 life. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of aneurism may in many cases be made with the greatest possible ease by a student in surgery ; m other instances it requires a vast amount of care, and the most experienced judgment. The diagnosis is easy when the aneurism is superficial, recent, and circumscribed, the blood in it being fluid, and all the signs well marked. It is often extremely difficult when the aneurism is deeply seated, or, if external, when it is old and filled with coagula; also, if acute inflammation or suppuration have taken place about it, or if it have become diffused. In making the diagnosis of aneurism we have, in the first place, to ascertain the existence or absence of a tumour ; and, after this, to decide whether it be aneurismal or of some other character. Both points, the latter especially, are difficult to determine in internal aneurisms ; in the external the doubt is not as to the presence of a tumour, but as to its nature. The tumours with which aneurisms may be confounded may conveniently be divided into two classes— those that do, and those that do not, pulsate. Every pulsating tumour is not an aneurism.—Thus there may be pulsation in various kinds of soft sarcoma, or in groivths comjwsed of ncevoid tissue. In such cases as these, many of the signs of aneurism are present: thus the size of the tumour may be diminished by compression, and the distinct influx of blood into it may be felt on the removal of the pressure, the tumour returning to its original size with a soft swelling pulsation ; there may also be a bruit, often of a loud and distinct character. But these tumours may generally be distinguished by their not being quite so distinctly circumscribed, and by their being soft, spongy, and elastic, without the sensation of fluid that is met with in some forms of aneurism, or of solid coagula that occurs in others. Again, the bruit is either soft, blowing, and more prolonged, or else sharp and superficial ; the pulsation, also, is not so distinct, and is more of the nature of a o-eneral swelling and heaving of the tumour than of a distinct thump. Much light is occasionally thrown upon these affections by their being met with in situations where aneurism cannot occur owing to the absence of any arteries of sufficient size to give rise to it, as, for instance, on the head of the tibia or the side of the pelvis ; but if a tumour of this kind be situated upon or under a large artery in the usual site of aneurism, then the diagnosis is certainly surrounded with difficulty, and indeed in many cases cannot be made. Several instances have occurred, in which Surgeons of the greatest skill and experience (as Guthrie and Stanley) have ligatured arteries in cases of pulsating sarcoma on the supposition that they had to do with aneurism. Pulsation may be communicated to a tumour of ajiuid character seated upon an artery ; here the diagnosis, though often difficult, is more readily made than in the last case. Attention to the history of the case, to the impossibility of diminishing the tumour by pressure either directly upon it or on the artery leading to it, its fluctuation, and want of circumscription, will usually indicate its nature. Especial attention should likewise be paid to the facts that the pulsation is a distinct heaving up and down of the tumour, and neither