591 EPISTAXIS. bablj the occasion of the disease. Peiforation of the septum' has also been observed as a congenital malformation. The presence of the necrosis may be suspected from the great foetor that •iufects the breath, of which the patient himself is unconscious ; and its exist- ence may always be positively determined by exploration of the nasal cavities with a probe. The I'reatment is simple, and must be conducted on ordinary principles. If the general health be impaired, or if the disease be specific, appropriate constitutional treatment must be adopted. The foetor may be lessened by the nasal douche and antiseptic applications. As soon as the bone is loosened, it must be extracted with polypus-forceps, coming away in soft black crumbling, offensive masses. There is often abundant hEemorrhage after this extraction, but I have only once seen serious trouble result from this cause. The patient, who was of intemperate habits, suffered from extensive destruction of the hard palate and bones of the nose. An attempt was made to remove a sequestrum, when a sudden gush of blood took place which rapidly proved fatal, partly by entering the lungs and partly from syncope. If haemorrhage occurs, plugging will in most cases easily arrest it. In cases of obstinate ozgena in which necrosis is suspected, or in which the sequestra cannot be removed by the nostril, Eouge, of Lausanne, recommends that the nasal cavity should be opened by an incision made from the mouth at the reflection of the mucous membrane from the gums to the upper lip. The cartilages are separated, and the septum cut through with strong scissors sufiiciently to allow the upper lip and nose to be pulled upwards for a suffi- cient distance thoroughly to expose the nasal cavity. By removing sequestra in this way, Eouge cured several cases of most obstinate ozsena. After the operation the nose is replaced, and no scar or other deformity results. Calculi, or Rhinoliths, are occasionally met with in the nasal fossEe where they simulate foreign bodies, and may keep up considerable irritation and offensive discharge ; and here extraction may be practised with a pair of forceps. But sometimes they are situated under the mucous membrane. In two cases I have dissected round calcareous bodies of this kind, of about the size of cherry-stones, from under the mucous membrane of the ala of the nostril in children. Epistaxis, or bleeding from the nose, is very common in children and in young people about the age of puberty, more particularly in girls, antecedently to the menstrual period ; it may either be active or passive, but is most usually dependent on congestion of the mucous membrane. In the adult it is more serious, and it may then be dependent on one of two very opposite conditions—either on a state of plethora with tendency to cerebral congestion, or on an antemic and cachectic state, in which the blood is thin, and does not coagulate readily. lu the first condition, it is often a salutary relief to the system, but when occurring in cachectic, aufemic, and especially ac^ed people, it becomes of very serious moment ; and the loss of blood may be so considerable that, unless active means be adopted, a fatal termination may ensue. When epistaxis proves iatal, it is by its constant recurrence In these cases, I believe, the nasal hemorrhage is always associated with a broken-down and unhealthy state of the constitution, dependent upon chronic visceral mischief, especially granular contracted kidney and cirrhosis of the liver. The worst and most intractable cases that I have seen have been