6oc TUMOURS OF THE MASAI FOSSJjJ. The orbital tumour may now bo enuc^leated witl. the finder and curved scissors I lie nostril is tiieu cleared by means <.f polypus-lorceps. The bleedin<- should be arrested by plug-inu. ; und, after all the morbid growth has been iUirlv extirpated, tlie nose should be pushed back and moulded into shape. The soft parts are then brought together with a few points of suture. As in all similar operations, the ])osLerior nai'es must be ])lugged to prevent the blood finding its way into the ti-achea. Occasionally the disease has extended into the integuments at the imior angle of the eye. Then the operation becomes more complicated. The following cases, operated on by me at University College Hospital, are good illustrations of this operation. The first case was one of carcinoma, springing deejily from the ethmoidal cells, passing out through the lachrymal bone and the orbital plate of the ethmoid into the orbit, blocking up the right nostril, and extending some way down the cheek, overlying the superior maxilla. It was growing rapidly in a woman 44 years of age, and required extensive removal of the bony structures in the situation from which it sprang. The next case was one of a woman 64 years of age, in whom a sarcoma developed with great rapidity in the situation of the lachrymal sac, invading Ihe nose and orbit, and destroying the upper and inner part of the superior maxillary bone. The eye was pushed outwards, the eyelids became implicated in their nasal third, and an ulcerated opening formed over the centre of tlie tumour. Its growth was attended by very severe tensive pain. The operation consisted in dissecting away the diseased part of the integument, including the nasal third of each eyelid, then turning down a flap from the cheek and cutting away with forceps the osseous structures, including the inner part of the floor of the orbit, a considerable portion of the superior maxilla, and part of the nasal bones. In order to repair the gap made by the removal of diseased skin at the side of the nose and by the removal of so large a portion of the eyelids, a flap of integument was dissected off the bridge of the nose and drawn over the aperture, to the edges of which and to the eyelids it was fixed by metallic sutures. Good union took place, and the patient made an excellent recovery. The immediate effect of the operation in both these cases was to relieve the patient of the agonizing pain, previously occasioned by the tension in the bones of the face produced by the growth of the tumour. Busch has described a case, in which the patient, a, man aged 78, had a malignant tumour of the size of a fist, occupying the middle of the face. The symptoms at the commencement were those of nasal polypus. In removing it, it was necessary to cut close to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, and as far back as the posterior nares. A flap of skin was transplanted from the forehead, not so much to form a new nose as to cover in the cavity left. The patient was able to leave the hospital in a few weeks. Columnar Fapilloma.—I have once met with this form of growth in the nasal fosste in a lady past sixty. It grew from the roof of the nasal cavity, and formed a mass blocking the nostrils and projecting into each orbit laterally. Much relief was obtained for a time by removing the projecting part of the tumour by avulsion with polypus-forceps, but the growth soon returned. A second operation was performed, but death took place on the third day from septic meningitis. The jwst-moricrn examination showed that ll'