334 DISEASES OF JOINTS. opened, and decomposition of the discharges has taken place, the diseased synovial membrane may be covered by opaque membranous patches ahnost resembling a diphtheritic membrane. In the later stages of arthritis, the granulations covering the opposed surfaces of any pouches of the synovial membrane will be found to have coalesced, the cavity of the joint being in this way to a great extent obliterated. Microscopic examination of the diseased membrane shows only the ordinary appearances of inflammation. The endothelial cells covering the membrane have disappeared, and the fibrous layer is first infiltrated with new cells before which the original tissue more or less completely disappears. In the layer of round cells thus formed, new vessels are developed, and granulation tissue is thus produced. The contents of the synovial cavity are in the very earliest stages composed of thin pus mixed with synovia, but as the membrane very soon ceases to yield its normal secretion, the fluid assumes the characters of ordinary pus. In cases in which the disease stops short of suppuration, an abundant coagulable fibrinous exudation is said to have been observed. The ligaments are early affected by extension of the inflammation to them from the synovial membrane. The bundles of fibres are at first separated from each other by coagulable inflammatory exudation, and the ligaments thus become swollen, and present a waxy or semi-gelatinous appearance. As the disease progresses the fibres become softened, and the ligaments yield, allowing the osseous surfaces to be displaced by the tonic contraction of the muscles, or the weight of the limb. The inflammation extends fi'om the ligaments to the periosteum of the articular ends of the hones entering into the joint. The periostitis thus set up usually assumes the osteoplastic form (p. 257), and irregular masses of new bone, often arranged in jagged stalactite-like processes, are formed in the neighbourhood of the articulation. This is more marked in the less acute forms of the disease, or when, after the escape of pus from the joint, the process has become chronic. The soft parts in contact with the ligaments are cedematous in the early stages, but subsequently as the disease advances, they may become fused with the capsule of the joint, so that it is impossible accurately to separate them. Abscesses not unfrequently form outside the joint, having no direct communi- cation with its cavity. The articular cartilage in all cases presents most important changes. These are never primary ; in every case it will be found that the morbid process proceeds either from the articular surface, or from the bone beneath. When the latter is the case, the affection of the cartilage is antecedent to the acute arthritis ; this condition commencing when the cartilage is perforated, and the joint becomes infected by the products of the disease which has commenced in the bone. When the cartilage is afi'ected in consequence of acute suppurative mflam- mation of the joint, the first change observed is a loss of its natural smoothness and polish. Its bluish-white tint becomes more opaque, and often assumes a slightly yellowish tinge. This is followed by loss of substance in those parts at which the opposed articular surfaces are in contact in the fixed position assumed by the inflamed joint. Finally the cartilage is completely destroyed at these parts, and the cancellous tissue of the head of the bone is exposed.