574 DISEASES OF THE SCALP AND SKULL Operafwn.-The operation of trephining lias already been described in \ oi. 1., p. 782, so that it will be necessary here only to mention certain points more especially connected with the removal of tumours. Immediatolv before the administration of the chloroform a quarter of a grain of morphine should be injected hypodermically, as suggested by Schiifer and Horsley with the object of causing contraction of the arterioles of the brain, and thug diminishing the hajmorrhage. Ether must never be used as the anaisthetic for fear of producing haemorrhage. The large flap of the scalp, which ig turned downwards without the periosteum, should extend in every direction for more than an inch beyond the limits of the bone to be removed. The vessels are quickly seized in forci-pressure forceps and ligatured with fine silk The general oozing is arrested by sponge pressure, and by frequently irrigating the wound with hot mercurial lotion (1 in 4000). The periosteum is now raised with an elevator in four flaps. The bone may conveniently be divided with an electro-motor circular saw, or a circle of bone may be removed with a trephine, and the opening enlarged with Horsley's strong bone-forceps. In order to facilitate this it may be convenient to make diagonal cuts through the outer table with a Key's saw before trephining. Before using the bone- forceps the dura mater must be separated with a small flat elevator. Haemor- rhage from the bone may be arrested with the antiseptic wax recommended by Horsley (bees' wax 7 parts, almond oil 1 part, salicylic acid 1 per cent.). The dura mater is raised by incising it at a distance of at least a quarter of an inch from the edges of the opening in the bone. Before proceeding to remove any portion of the br^in substance, it is advisable to apply a series of fine catgut ligatures to the surrounding veins, by passing a sharp curved needle under them through the brain substance. These ligatures must be applied well beyond the area to be excised. The latter should be marked out by incising the cortex to a depth of about half an inch with a scalpel, and the removal may be completed with the knife or with curved scissors. Anj vessels which bleed may be secured by passing a fine ligature somewhat widely around them with a curved needle. The method of treating the wound, and the question of the replacement of bone, have already been considered in Vol. I., p. 784. During the operation the pulse and respiration must be carefully watched, juid if either fail the skull should be opened as rapidly as possible, so that the intracranial pressure may be relieved. Craniectomy.—In certain cases of idiocy the imperfect development of the mental faculties is associated with a condition of microcephalus due to premature ossification of the cranial sutures, especially the coronal and sagittal. The occurrence of this synostosis necessarily interferes with the further develop- ment of the brain, and is regarded by some pathologists as the primary condition. The operation of craniectomy has for its object the formation of an artificial suture by the removal of a narrow strip of bone from the vertex of the skull, in order to allow subsequent continued development of the brain. In 1890 Lannelongue recorded two cases in which considerable improvement appears to have followed the operation. The first case was a child 4 years of ;io-e, which presented the characteristic condition of the skull, and was unable to walk alone, talk plainly, or swallow solid food. A strip of bone, 9 centi- metres long and 6 millimetres wide was removed from a little to the left of the sagittal suture. The habit of incessant crying ceased on the following day. and in five weeks " the child was calmer, tried to talk, and took notice of its