LYMPH ADENOMA. 49 lu some cases a softened gland may conveniently be treated by the following simple method. The gland is steadied between the finger and thumb of the left hand, and a puncture made into it with a scalpel about R quarter of an inch in width. A probe may then be passed along the scalpel, so as to serve as a guide to the opening in the capsule. The scalpel is then withdrawn, and a small sharp spoon passed along the probe into the gland. By forcibly squeezing the gland and scraping with the spoon, the whole of its caseous contents can usually be removed wdthout flifficulty. A very fine drainage-tube may be inserted for a few days, after which healing will probably take place Avithout difficulty. The results of this little operation are very much better if strict antiseptic precautions are observed ; for if the cavity becomes filled with decomposing discharges, troublesome diffuse suppuration in the areolar tissue may follow. Iodoform or salicylic wool forms the best dressing in most cases. If several glands lie close together, it is sometimes possible to scrape more than one fi-om a single opening in the skin. The scars left after this mode of treatment are very slight. In many cases, however, a superficial abscess has already formed when the case first comes under treatment. The abscess must then be freely opened and scraped and the edges of the incision held apart with blunt hooks. By care- ful examination a small track will now often be found passing through the deep fascia to the caseous gland which lies beneath it. The track must be sufficiently enlarged to allow the diseased gland to be thoroughly scraped away with a sharp spoon. This procedure is most important for, as Teale has pointed out, if the superficial abscess only be opened the primary cause of it still remains. The sinuses and ulcers left by-the bursting of chronic glandular abscesses must be treated by free scraping and disinfected with chloride of zinc (40 grains to the ounce) and iodoform. All blue undermined skin should be cut away with scissors, as it delays heahng and is itself useless for any purposes of repair. In the case of extensive sinuses in the neck, there is no doubt, as Treves has especially urged, that the constant movement of the part delays healing. Sufficient rest is, as a rule, obtained by a firmly-applied wool dressing, but the use of a,leather collar may sometimes be helpful. LYMPHADENOMA. This disease has already been described in the Chapter on Tumours (Yol. I., p. 1029), and but little remains to be said concerning it. When the disease IS apparently limited to a single group of lymphatic glands, the question of their removal often comes before the Surgeon. If the tumour be large and single, or composed of an agglomeration of multiple masses, and so situated that it can be taken out with safety, its removal is proper, and should be practised. I have several times removed large lymphadenomata from the axilla and upper part of the neck with great advantage. Even when the disease is multiple, single large masses that are sources of special trouble should be dissected out. In one such case a tumour which was as large as a man's fist, was removed, in University College Hospital' Irom the axilla. The patient, a delicate woman, had a group of similar gi'owths m the neck, which had remained stationary for twenty years. VOL, 11, E