69 CAPILLARY AND VENOUS N.EVI. This disease, under which are inchided those various afifectjons termed Mother's Marks, Erectile Tumours, aud Vascular Growths, constitutes an important and interesting section of surgical affections. Nffivi are usually divided according to their structure into two chief varie- ties : caiiiUary and venous or cavernous. Aneurism by anastomosis was formerly included under the name of arterial nsevus. The simple capillary nsevi are composed merely of the capillary vessels of the skin greatly increased in size and number; the cause of their growth is quite unknown. Yenous or cavernous njBvi are usually definitely circumscribed tumours, composed of spaces lined with an endothelium similar to that of the veins and bounded by a thin wall. The whole mass is bound together by a delicate areolar tissue. The spaces are filled with dark venous blood. The arterial supply is usually small, and the arteries open directly into the spaces, without the intervention of capillaries. In some cases, however, a venous ngevus is not clearly defined, but consists of a mass of tortuous, thin-walled veins, surrounded by a con- siderable quantity of areolar tissue, sometimes containing fat. In fact, the structure of nevoid growths varies considerably in different cases, and the various forms merge into each other. (See also Angiomata, Yol. I., p. 1028.) Superficial n^vi are divided into the cutaneous and suUutaneous varieties. The former are capillary in structure ; whilst the subcutaneous nsevi, although usually venous, are also occasionally found to be entirely composed of a mass of capillary vessels. The most common condition is to find the two forms of nffivus conjoined, the disease assuming the capillary form in the skin and the venous beneath. According to E. W. Parker, 67 per cent, of n^vi occur in female children. They are almost always, if not invariably, congenital. Cavernous nsevi occasionally appear in adult life, but it is probable that these are of congenital origin, and commence active growth at an unusually late period. Capillary Nffivi appear as slightly*elevated but flat spots on the skin, of a bright red or purplish tint, and having occasionally granular or papillated elevations, with some larger vessels ramifying on their surface. They often spread superficially to a considerable extent ; they are usually situated on the lace, head, neck, or arms, but occasionally, though more rarely, on the back the nates, the organs of generation, and the lower extremities. They are often at birth very small, not larger than a pin's head, from which they may spread m the course of a few weeks or months to patches an inch or two in dianieter. In many cases no inconvenience results from this disease, except the deformity it causes ; but occasionally, more especially when the growth is a all prominent, there is a great disposition to unhealthy ulceration. When bleedmg occurs from a wound of the ngevoid structure it is usually in a trickling stream, and without any degree of force. Venous or Cavernous Navi are of a dark purple or reddish colour usually very prominent, and often forming distinct tumours of considerable size, which may either be smooth and ovoid, or somewhat lobulated. On com- pressing a growth of this kind, it subsides to a certain extent, feeling doughy soft, and inelastic ; on the removal of the pressure it fills again. In some er;edt\ulk inflammation, or containing cysts,^they cannot! lessened in bulk by pressure. These njBvi are usually of about the size of half