270 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. or from exposure to cold. lu those cases in wliich it is limited to one end of a bone, it is often due to the irritation caused by tiic presence of a small tuberculous centre deeply seated in the cancellous tissue. When the middle part of the bone is alfectcd, especially before cessation of growth, it will not uncommonly be found to be due to hereditary syphiHs. In adult life it is often one of the eifects of acquired syphilis. Symptoms.—The symptoms of chronic osteitis consist of enlargement of the affected bone, with deeply seated pain in and great tenderness of the h'lnb ; the pain, as in periostitis, is greatly increased at night, and, when the disease is chronic, is much influenced by the state of the weather. There is no danger connected with this condition ; but it often becomes distressing from the severity of the tensive and nocturnal pain accompanying it. In strumous subjects there is always considerable probability that the condition is secondary to a central tuberculous focus, and this may lead to necrosis or caries with chronic suppuration. Treatment.—In chronic osteitis and periostitis, when the bone has become thickened and enlarged, but little can be done in the way of cure. The ad- ministration of iodide of potassium with occasional application of blisters will however do much to arrest the progress of the disease and relieve pain, especially in those cases in which there is a syphilitic taint. Should these means fail to give relief, and the pain continue of an excessively distressing and persistent character, I have found the operation of linear osteotomy of great service. An incision about three inches long is made directly down on the chronically inflamed and indurated bone, being carried through the periosteum, so that the scalpel grates upon the bone. By means of a Hey's saw this cutis extended into the substance of the bone as far as the medullary canal, or deeply into the cancellous tissue. Some bleeding occurs, but it can always be arrested by position and pressure. The wound is then closed. In this way tension is taken off; and the pain, which appears to be dependent on the compression of inflamed bone by its own condensed structure, is at once relieved. " Linear osteotomy " is an operation especially applicable to osseous nodes of the long bones, or to chronic osteitis of the articular ends of the tibia, and is a far less severe mode of treatment than trephining the bone, which has occasionally been adopted in such cases ; while it is equally efficacious. After a time, when the progress of the disease ceases, the enlarged bone does not give rise to any very serious inconvenience, except such as may be occasioned by its bulk. CHRONIC ABSCESS OF BONE. Chronic abscesses in bone are usually met with in the cancellous tissue, and occur with special frequency in the head and lower end of the tibia. The abscess forms as the result of rarefying osteitis of a locahzed portion of the can- cellous tissue (p. 265). This process continues till the bony cancelli are com- pletely destroyed. Subsequently the inflammatory products undergo fatty degeneration and soften, forming thick curdy fluid containing few recognizable pus cells and large quantities of fatty delris. The process may continue gradu- ally to extend, and may thus undermine the contiguous cartilage, and eventually the abscess may burst into the neighbouring joint (Fig. 508). The tendency for the pus to burrow in this direction is increased by the want of formation