21 NEURITIS. CHAPTER XXXVIII. + DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. NEUKITIS. Inflammation of the Nerves is of not unfrequent occurrence. The inflammation may be acute or chronic, and one or many nerves may be affected. " Multiple neuritis " is generally the result of some abnormal blood-state, such as that caused by alcoholism, rheumatism or diabetes ; it also occasionally results from poisoning with certain metalHc substances, as lead and arsenic, and may be associated with certain acute specific diseases, as diphtheria. The Surgeon is, however, chiefly concerned with inflammatory affections of single nerve trunks, amongst the chief causes of which may be mentioned injury, such as compression, womid and strain; and exposure to cold, giving rise to the so-called "rheumatic" form. A localized form of neuritis may also be due to gout. Symptoms.—When a single nerve trunk is affected the local symptoms consist of tenderness on pressure along the course of the nerve, and severe continuous pains running down its trunk and ramifying along its branches, with occasional violent exacerbations, especially' on moving or touching the part, and at night. In very rare cases the disease may assume an acute form, with some swelling along the course of the nerve, and slight pyrexia. Ordi- narily the affection is chronic. It is one of the causes of neuralgia. In the later stages there may be affections of sensation and motion in the parts supplied by the affected nerve. Traumatic neuritis has alreadv been fullv described (Vol. I. p. 496). " Should the opportunity occur of examining the nerve after death in acute cases, the sheath will be found injected and swollen from inflammatory exuda- tion._ In chronic cases the perineurium and epineurium may be found indurated and increased m quantity, the nerve fibres being more or less compressed bv the new fibroid tissue. The inflammation is in fact limited to the connective tissue of the nerve trunk, and the degeneration of the nerve fibres which mav occur IS secondary. The changes thus differ from those met with in the mul- tiple forms of the disease, in which, as Gowers points out, the inflammation is parenchymatous and affects primarily the nerve fibres themselves Treatment.—In acute cases this consists in the application of leeches ac- cording to the situation, and poppy or belladonna fomentations. In chronic cases blistering or the application of mustard plasters along the line of the nerve usually gives rehef. The part in which the affected nerve is situated must If possible be kept at perfect rest. Hypodermic injections of morphror cylate of soda is frequently of great use ; in some cases'the acetous extract of