SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. 2 Fig. 413. — Hyper- trophy and De- formity of Toe- nail. general, which interferes ■witli the healthy nutrition of the matrix. The changes which may occur in the finger-nails from division of the median or ulnar nerve have already been considered. Neuritis may give rise to a similar condition. In some broken states of health, the nails occasionally become blackish or dark-brown in colour, and are rugged, dry, and cracked, scaling off, as it were, without any apparent affection of the matrix. This condition, of which I have seen several instances, is best treated by a course of alteratives or tonics, the local condition yielding as the general health becomes improved. Arsenic will often be found of great service, either alone or with mercury. Hypertrophy.—Occasionally from neglect the toe-nail may become enormously hypertrophied and twisted, looking more like a horn than a nail, as shown in the accompanying drawing (Fig. 413) taken from a patient in whom the nail had been allowed to grow uncut for twenty years, producing complete lameness. I removed the whole nail in one piece by avulsion, and com- pletely restored the utility of the foot. Onychia is a disease of the nails dependent on inflamma- tion of the matrix; it occurs under two forms, the simple and the syphilitic. In Simple Onychia there are redness, heat, and swelhng usually on one side of the nail, and in the angle of the tissue in which it is implanted ; there is discharge of pus, and the nail gradually loosens, becomes dark-coloured, and some- what shrivelled, and may eventually be thrown off", a new nail making its appearance below, which commonly assumes a somewhat thickened and rugged shape. This disease usually results from some slight injury, as the running of a thorn or splinter into the finger. The treatment consists in cutting away any part of the nail that becomes loose, so that no discharge may accumu- late beneath it. The inflammation maybe subdued by hot moist applications. In some cases a lotion composed of Liq. Plumb, subacetatis Bss., Rectified spu-it 5j, and water @ Oj., will be found most efficacious. The application of iodoform is often useful. Syphilitic Onychia is a more serious affection, and is often dependent on injuries inflicted on the finger during constitutional syphilis. In it a dusky- red or hvid inflammation takes place at the sides or root of the nail; ulceration is set up, accompanied by the discharge /^^^T«JTL^the pus ; and large loose granulations spring up at its root and ^^^es, so that he end of the toe or finger that is affected (and this is most commonly either the .reat toe, the thumb, or the index finger) becomes greatly enlarged and buTbons in shape. The nail then shrivels, becomes brown or black, and peels off inl- PS (Fig. 414) ; after its separation, thick epidermic masses, forming abordve a t m^ts at tie production of a new nail, may develop at the base and des In he Treatment, both local and constitutional means are reqiured. The first and most essential point is to remove the nail, either in whole or in part, Fig. 414.—Sypliilitio Onychia.