1164 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. Injector. found useful, commencing with half a grain to the ounce, u J] w r '"f ^'^^^^/V^ importance. A glass syn.^ge should always be u ed with a siP.ooth rounded nozzle. The patient sitting on the edge of th chair and holding ujD the penis, should carefully insert the end of the syrin! between the hps of the urethra, and then slowly throw in the injection a. f! as It will go Although the inflammation is usually at first confined to th anterior portion 0 the urethra, yet it in most cases extends to the bulb, and the injection should be applied to the whole length of the inflamed mucous membrane If any enter the bladder this is of no consequence, as it will immediately be decomposed by the salts and mucus of the urine Instead of the ordinary glass syringe, the injector (Fig. 908) may advan- tageously be used. By it, the injection is thrown from behind forwards, so that when passed beyond the inflamed part it washes out tlie discharge, instead of forcing it further on. Treatment of Gleet.—In gleet, much difficulty will often be experienced in curing the patient of his dis- charge. Here much depends not only on the adminis- tration of proper remedies, but on care being taken to regulate his habits of life. It will constantly be found that, after the disease has apparently been cured, excesses at table, and more especially the drinking of beer, or of effervescing or acid wines, will bring back the discharge. It will return also after connexion, though it have previously ceased entirely. This is especially the case in strumous, gouty, or rheu- matic subjects, in whom all urethral inflammations are with difficulty removed. In these cases, then, absti- nence from alcoholic liquids and dietetic stimulants, and a continent life must be strictly enjoined ; but the local treatment requires careful attention. In the early stages of gleet an attempt may be made to cure it by injections. For this purpose somewhat stronger solutions are required than in the more acute period of the disease. Sulphate of copper will often be and gradually increasing it to one or even two grains. Tannic acid in the strength of from two to four grains to the ounce will sometimes check the discharge. Soluble bougies, similar to those already described, but containing tannic acid, sulphate of zinc, or acetate of lead, are often of great service. These, combined with the internal administra- tion of copaiba and cubebs, or the perchloride of iron, may effect a cure. If these do not succeed, the occasional passage of a full-sized bougie is of the greatest use. If the orifice of the urethra be small meatotomy should be the first step in the treatment. The meatus must also be examined for warty growths, which may keep up the discharge. When the disease has become very chronic, and has assumed the form of granular urethritis, it is difficult of cure ; for, as Desormeaux pointed out, no injection, which the healthy portion of the urethra is capable of bearing, will have much effect upon the inflamed patch. He therefore recommended the application of a strong solution of nitrate of silver through the endoscope. /'/l I'll i/i, I'l '/'' III iji .Ml '//I 111 Fig. AOS.—Teev.ni's