1 SYMPTOMS OF CHRONIC INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 903 the anus, and may thus resemble a simple prolapse of the bowel. Such a con- dition is easily recognised by passing the finger beside the protruded gut into Che rectum, which it is of course impossible to do m a case of prolapse ine nature of tlie tumour, when it lies in the rectum, may be recognised by feeling die opening in the apex of the intussusceptum, which has been compared to the OS uteri. u i • 11 The Prognosis in acute or subacute intussusception is very bad, especially in children under one year of age, of whom not two per cent, recover if the case be left to nature. The great majority die before the seventh day from shock and exhaustion. In older patients, recovery may take place by ..•angrene and subsequent elimination of the invaginated bowel. This is said to occur in about 40 per cent, of all cases. The chance of its occurrence steadily increases with the age of the patient. When it is about to happen, the discharges from the bowel become oifensive, and finally the gangrenous gut is passed and followed by a motion. Separation of the gangrenous gut is, however, by no means always followed by recovery. According to Treves, 40 per cent, die fi-om failure of the adhesions to prevent extravasation of fteces, from ulceration and perforation of the gut, from hsemorrhage or pyemia. If elimination does not take place death is inevitable, unless it can be prevented by surgical interference. Chronic Intestinal Obstruction.—A typical case of chronic obstruction is characterised by the gradual development and the want of intensity in the symptoms. The cause of this condition is seated almost invariably in the great intestine. In a few exceptional instances stricture of the smah intestine has given rise to chronic obstruction, but in most of the recorded cases, as already stated, the sudden blocking of the narrowed lumen causes an attack sufficiently sudden in its commencement and rapid in its course to justify its inclusion amongst acute obstructions. Symptoms.—In chronic intestinal obstruction there is usually a history of gradually increasing constipation, often alternating with diarrhoea. The motions often become gradually smaller, and are not uncommonly streaked with blood and mucus, and passed with much straining. At last the con- stipation culminates in complete obstruction, neither faeces nor flatus passing. It may not be for some days that the patient recognises that his bowels are obstructed, and he frequently first becomes aware of it by the failure of purgatives to produce a motion, and by some sickness with distension of the abdomen following their use. After a week or more, eructations, retchings, and even vomiting may set in. The abdomen gradually becomes distended, and the flatus passing from one part to another gives rise to loud rumbling and gurgling noises, with some griping pain. The belly usually assumes a barrel shape, the flanks being distended and tympanitic. If the abdominal walls be thin, the distended coils may be felt and often seen through them, and peristalsis may be very evident. Not uncommonly the patient will say that he feels the flatus moving towards a certain point where it is obstructed in its passage, and then rolls back with a loud rumble. As the case progresses the vomiting increases in frequency, and at last, usually after two or three weeks, it may become fgeculent. It is never, however, so abundant as in acute ob- struction. The tongue is foul from the first, and towards the end becomes brown and dry. Loss of flesh is very evident from the beginning, and before death the emaciation may be extreme. If unrelieved by treatment death takes