ANEURISM OF THE ARM, FOREARM, AND HAND. 215 further internal, usually bcyoud the vein. To the outer side is the median, and for a short distance above, the external cutaneous lies on the same side of the vessel before entering the coraoo-brachialis. Behind is the musculo-spiral, and as far as the upper border of the teres major, the circumflex. The nerves are easily held aside, and the ligature is passed round the artery from the vein. If the ligature be applied near the termination of the axillary artery, as it lies over the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, it will not be in immediate contiguity to any large branch. Above this point, it must be applied close to either the subscapular or the circumflex arteries, which would perhaps somewhat add to the danger of secondary hsemorrhage. In a fat axilla there is some risk of missing the artery by drifting too much towards the posterior border of the space. To avoid this, and also to get rid of the inconvenience caused by the situation of the vein covering the artery, Malgaigne recommended that the incision should be made a little nearer the anterior border of the axilla, and the edge of the coraco-brachialis sought as the first rallying-point. "VYhen this is found it is drawn slightly forwards, when the median nerve will be seen in contact with it. If this be drawn on one side, the artery at once comes into view. By this method the artery can often be tied without the vein being seen, and it is impossible to miss the vessels by getting too far to the inner side. Ligature of the axillary is very rarely required for aneurism. It has been done as a distal operation for subclavian aneurism, but without success. The collateral circulation after ligature of the axillary above the pectoralis minor is the same as after ligature of the third part of the subclavian (p. 205). "When the artery is tied near its termination the circulation is carried on by the anastomoses of the posterior circumflex with the superior profunda. ANEURISM OF THE ARM, FOREARM, AND HAND. Spontaneous aneurism rarely occurs in the upper extremity, below the axilla. G. Buchanan has recorded a case of spontaneous aneurism in the upper third of the brachial artery ; Palletta, Flajani, Pelletan, and others, relate cases of spontaneous aneurism at the bend of the arm ; and Listen states that he once tied the brachial artery in an old ship-carpenter, who whilst at work felt as if something had snapped in his arm. Pilcher has recorded a case of aneurism under the ball of the right thumb, which was produced by repeated though slight blows with the handle of a hammer used by the patient (a working goldsmith) in his trade ; the radial and ulnar arteries were tied immediately above the wrist, and the disease was thus cured. Aneurism has also been met with in this situation after attempted reduction of a dislocation of the thumb. In the Museum of the College of Surgeons there is a preparation of a radial artery with a small aneurism, about the third of an inch in diameter, formed by the dilatation of all the coats of a narrow portion of one half the circum- ference of the vessel, a Httle above the origin of the superficialis vote. Spontaneous aneurism in the forearm is extremely rare. Todd and Arnott both successfully tied the brachial in its upper third for spontaneous aneurism of the forearm. De Morgan records a case of spontaneous aneurism of the uhiar, and Spanton one of the radial artery. In most of the cases in which the brachial artery and its primary branches have been the seat of spontaneous