disea:ses of the tongue. 696 3 ihe Buccal Operation.-This method is usually attributed to Furn<.aux Jordan, but accordiug t.o Butlin it was first performed by Jaeger in 1831 ^ U consists in dividing the cheek backwards on the affected side as far as the anterior border of the niasseter, care being taken to go below the parotid duct In this way free access is gained to the back part of the touLme and the removal of the latter is effected with scissors in the usual wav' After the operation is concluded, the incision in the cheek is closed with sutures. 4. Excision of Tongue after Division of the Lower Jaw.—Sedillot of htrassbiirg described, in 185;",, a method of removing the whole of the tongue which he stated that he had practised for some years with success. The operation consists in making a vertical section through the lower lip, sawing through the inferior maxilla at itg symphysis, separating the bone on each side, drawing the tongue forward and removing it. In performing this operation, its inventor recommends that the section of the lower lip should be made carefully through the median line, and carried across the chin as far down as the hyoid bone. The lower jaw is then sawn through at its symphysis. In order to fix the bone more accurately after the operation, he recommends that, instead of makincr one vertical incision, two oblique cuts should be practised with the saw in this shape >, so as to form a triangle the point of which corresponds to the middle of the body of the bone, so that the two opposite sides may be locked together after the removal of the tongue. Before sawing the bone it may be drilled on each side half an inch from the edge of the intended incision through it. After having divided the lower jaw, the muscles connecting it to the tongue should be cut across and the mucous membrane forming the floor of the mouth detached from the bone, the two sides of which are drawn asunder; and the tongue then removed from the hyoid Itone by being gradually snipped through with scissors. The lingual arteries bleed freely, and must at once be secured. The ojiposite sides of the jaw-bone are then adjusted by a wire passed through the hole previously drilled on each side. If Sedillot's angular cut be adopted, the bone may be kept i7i situ much more easily than if the vertical incision to which he first of all had recourse, and which is commonly adopted in this country, be practised. The incision in the lower lip must be united in the usual way liy hare-lip pins or sutures. This operation was first done in this country by Syme and Nunneley, and has since been practised by many other Surgeons. When the disease has commenced in the floor of the mouth and implicated Pig. 750. —Removal of Tongue by Division of Lower Jaw and Ecraseur.