TVBEBCULOUS DISEASE OF IJIF: TREATMENT. 429 weight extension used as above described before applying the Thomas's splint. Thomas's splint is the only apparatus that maintains absolute rest of i the joint, while at the same time the patient is able to move about daring the whole or the greater part of the treatment. The splint consists of a flat bar of ; soft iron, varying from three quarters of an inch to an inch and a half in ;i width, and from three-sixteenths to three-eighths of an inch in. thickness, : according to the age, size, and weight of the patient. This bar must be long enough to reach from the lower angle of the scapula to the middle of the leg immediately below the prominence of the calf. The upper and lower parts must be straight to fit the back and the leg, and between these it must be bent into a curve accurately fitted to the buttock of the patient. To this j vertical bar, three curved transverse bars of soft iron about | inch thick, by 1 to f inch, are fixed as in Fig. 570. The upper of these should be of sufficient length to embrace the chest about as far as the nipple on each side. The middle bar should be immediately below the curve for the buttock in the ver- tical bar. If it be placed too low, the splint is more apt to twist round and ' allow flexion. The whole apparatus is padded with a thin layer of felt, or . flannel, covered with leather. The splint is applied in such a way that the curved part of the vertical bar lies midway between the tuberosity of the ischium and i the great trochanter. The curved parts are then bent so as to fit the chest, . thigh, and leg comfortably. A strong piece of bandage is passed through the I rings in the ends of the chest-piece, and tied firmly. A broad body-bandage of swan's down calico, or flannel, is then wound round the vertical bar, so as J to get a good hold of it, and carried two or three times round the body. A narrower bandage is next applied to the thigh and leg. If the patient is to walk about, braces of strong cahco must be fixed to the chest-piece, and carried over the shoulders, otherwise the splint will slip down. If there is much flexion, the splint may be bent forwards immediately below the buttock curve to a degree a httle less than that of the limb, which may be allowed to he upon it with the knee slightly bent. In this position it is secured by a few turns of bandage round the thigh and leg. In a few days, if the patient be kept on his back, the weight of the hmb will have extended the hip, so I that the whole leg is uniformly in contact with the splint, which may then be I straightened a little ; this is repeated until the flexion is corrected. The ! vertical bar must never be bent opposite the knee. If there is much adduction, it is often convenient to twist the vertical bar, so that its anterior aspect looks I very slightly outwards from below the buttock. These alterations in the shape i of the splint must be carried out by the Surgeon himself with strong iron I wrenches made for the purpose. A little experience is required in the manipu- lation of these splints, but the necessary skill is easily acquired, and will well repay the Surgeon for the trouble involved is so doing. The splint must be worn continuously day and night till all symptoms have subsided, often for two or three years. In walking with crutches, the patient is raised by a patten on i the foot of the sound Hmb, so that the opposite foot does not touch the ground (Fig. 569). Should suppuration take place, Thomas's splint is still the most convenient apparatus, as it leaves the parts uncovered in which the abscesses point. One great advantage in the splint, is that under the superintendence of the Surgeon, any blacksmith can do the iron-work, and any saddler the padding : and it is thus equally available for country or city practice. After all acute symptoms have disappeared, Thomas's splint is still the best