888 FELVIC HERNIA. protrusions of subperitoneal fat through a rounded opening in tlie aponeuro,i. and not uncommonly contain in their pedicle a small pouch of , eritouen^' winch IS due to the traction exerted upon it. It nmy be impossible to d 2 guish these protrusions from omental herniie until it is found that the f.t extraperitoneal and not contained within a sac. ^ A rare kind of ventral i-upture was described by Guthrie, in which aft^.- a blow, the muscles of the abdominal wall have been absorbed or have yield., to a considerable extent, forming a broad and expanded tumour, without a,iv distinct neck or pedicle. Sometimes this tumour may attain an immense size, stretchmg perhaps down to the knees, and containing even the eravi,l' uterus. ^ " The Treatment of ventral hernia must consist in supporting it bv means ot a broad belt and properly-constructed pad. Should it become strangulated which I believe very rarely happens, owing to the width of the neck of the sac' the operation must be performed in the same way as for umbilical rupture, care being taken to divide the integuments cautiously, any aponeurotic investments, and the peritoneal sac if necessary ; the stricture should always be divided upwards. In suitable cases a radical cure may be attempted by an operation similar to that for umbilical hernia. Lumbar Hernia may conveniently be mentioned here. There are two positions in the loin through which the hernia may protrude. One is Petit's triangle, the space which often exists above the iliac crest between the borders of the external oblique and latissimus dorsi; and the other is higher up below the last rib where the aponeurosis of the transversalis is covered only by the latis- simus dorsi. Apart from true hernia, bulgings of the abdominal wall may occur in the loin after the healing of abscesses or wounds. Macready has collected 28 cases of lumbar hernia. Of those cases in which the position of the hernia is noted, 11 occurred at Petit's triangle, 2 through the higher space above mentioned, 1 near the tip of the eleventh rib, and 1 near that of the twelfth. In 6 cases strangulation occurred. Three of these were successfully treated by taxis; 1 recovered and 1 died after operation; and another died, apparently untreated. PELVIC HKRNI-ffi. Obturator Hernia.—This rare form of hernia, in which the protrusion of intestine takes place through the thyroid foramen, was first noticed by Garengeot, in the early part of the eighteenth century; since that time about 80 cases have been recorded. Its existence has rarely been ascertained before death ; in fact, Lawi'ence doubted the possibility of recognizing the condition during life, in consequence of the small size which the tumour attains, and its being covered in and compressed under the pectineus muscle. But several cases are on record in which it was recognized during life. It generally occurs in persons above the age of fifty; in consequence, according to Gurlt, of the participation by the muscular structures covering the thyroid foramen in the general wasting of tissue which may occur at that time of life. Pimbet, who collected the records of all the published cases up to 1882, states that in 73, in which the sex was mentioned, 65 were women and 8 men. Symptoms.—In obturator hernia the neck of the sac lies behind the