I ^098 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITIIOTRITY. i^' ' ^« of only moderate size it may more safely U Clashed. In hthotnty the danger of renal disease consists chiefly in inteN eience with the function of the kidneys following a prolonged opei-ation ; in thotomy this danger is less in proportion as the operation is shorter, but here is an additional source of danger in the tendency to diffuse inflarama- dTsease ' ' """'^ ^""'o^mding tissue that always coexists with kidney Diabetes is not commonly associated with calculus. I have, indeed but very rarely seen the two conditions combined. The only form of calculus thai I have seen m diabetic patients has been the uric acid. It is necessarily verv hazardous to operate in such cases, at least by lithotomy. And even if lithotritv be determined on, it would be well to defer the operation until the glycosuria has been checked or removed, at least for a time, by proper treatment. I have said nothing in this comparison between cutting and crushing of the comparative painfulness of the two operations, as both are in the present day done durmg antesthesia. The suffering during the after-treatment, when ail goes well, is about equal, while the discomfort is infinitely less in lithotrity. To sum up, therefore, the rules of practice may be given as follows :— In all ordinary cases in the adult, lithotrity by Bigelow's method at a singk- sitting should be the rule of practice for stones up to two inches, provide they are not too hard to be crushed by the lithotrite. When the stone is above two inches in diameter, or when a large number of small stones are present, lithotomy is usually preferable. Lithotomy is required in cases of extreme enlargement of the prostate, encysted calculus, or large stone with severe cystitis. As a general rule the siiprapuUc operation should be selected in those cases in which lithotrity is contraindicated or impracticable. When the cutting . operation is resorted to on account of the size of the stone, suprapubic litho- - tomy should always be performed. The same may be said of encysted calculus (p. 1038), and great enlargement of the prostate ; in the latter case the Surgeon may thus be enabled to deal with the prostatic outgrowth as well as to remove the calculus {see Hypertrophy of Prostate). When lithotomy is performed because of very severe cystitis the median operation may be under- ■ taken if the stone is small, but suprapubic drainage has proved so satisfactory that this condition also may be treated by the high operation. The Result of Operations for Stone Avill depend in a great measure upon the condition of the bladder, and the character of the stone. If the bladder be healthy, all symptoms will cease on the removal of the calculus, and the patient will be restored to perfect health. This usually happens when the "Calculus is of the uric acid or the oxalate of lime variety, and of renal origin. If, however, the bladder be unsound, irritable, and the urine alkaline from de- composition, and disposed to the deposit of phosphatic matters, the calculus - being phosphatic, and chiefly, if not wholly, vesical in its origin, then an irritable state of bladder may be left, or may speedily return after the 0]iera- tion, which will consequently have been productive of little, or only of temporary benefit. Recurrence of Calculus after Operation.—This may take place from four distinct causes:—1, in consequence of a continuance of the constitutional condition, under the influence of which the calculus was originally formed; 2, from the descent of a renal calculus, which has existed jn the kidney before