SPEC I A L A N Bum SMS. x64 tumour. What resource, then, does surgery oOer in these cases beyond the employment of constitutional and dietetic means ? If these measures fail in arresting the disease, our choice must lie between leaving the patient to his fate, or having recourse to the application of the ligature on the distal side of the tumour. On looking at the innominate artery with reference to the distal operation, we are struck by two peculiarities in the vessel, which must neces- sarily modify to a considerable extent not only the seat of the operation, but the principle on which it is conducted. The first peculiarity is the shortness of the trunk, which makes it impossible to apply the ligature to the vessel itself, but renders it necessary to tie one or both of its terminal branches. The other peculiarity is, that in no circumstances can these vessels be so ligatured as to arrest the Avhole of the blood sent into the artery ; for, although the circulation through the carotid may be entirely stopped, yet It is impossible, from the seat and extent of the disease, to tie the subclavian at any point except beyond the scaleni; hence that blood which is destined for the supply of the branches of this vessel—the vertebral, the thyroid axis, the internal mammary, and the superior intercostal—must continue to pass through the sac. Three distinct modifications of the distal operation have been pro- posed and resorted to for the cure of aneurisms in this situation : 1. Ligature of the Subclavian'alone : 2. Ligature of the Carotid alone : and 3, Ligature of both vessels with an interval of greater or less extent. 1. Ligature of the Subclavian only (Fig. 471) has been practised by Dupuytren, Wardrop, Laugier, Broca, and others. Dupuytren's and Laugier's cases were soon fatal, and Broca's experienced no relief and died in six months. In Wardrop's case the tumour diminished and the patient survived for two years. This partial success may fairly be attributed in a great measure to the accident of the carotid having been occluded by the disease. The results of this practice have certainly not been sufficiently favourable to justify the Surgeon in repeating an attempt of this kind, opposed as it is to the known principles on which the distal operation effects a cure. For, sup- posing as we may safely do, with AVardrop, that only one-third of the blood that is sent into the innominate finds its way through the third part of the subclavian, the remainder being destined for its branches and the carotid in equal proportions, what fact can'be adduced or principle laid down from which we can expect to obtain the cure of an aneurism in close proximity to the heart, by cutting off for a short time only so small a proportion as one- third of the supply of blood sent into it ? As soon as the collateral vessels have dilated, the flow of blood through the artery will be the same as before the operation, as the supply of blood to the upper limb is maintained by means of the anastomoses of the branches of the first and second part of the sub- clavian with those of the axillary artery. ■ 2. Ligature of the Carotid only (Fig. 472, p. 165) for Innominate aneurism was first performed by Evans in 1828. The tumour diminished for a few days after the operation, but at the end of seven days inflammation of the sac set in, followed by obliteration of the arteries of the right arm and the branches of the carotid. At the end of a year a tumour still existed, with constant pulsation. Next year the sac suppurated, and discharged much pus. Since that time the operation has been repeated by Mott, Aston Key, Fergus- son, Hutchinson, Pirogoff, and many others, amounting in all to about thirty cage's. In only one case, that operated on by Evans, does the disease appear