1053 LATERAL LITHOTOMY. mended the external incision to be free, the rectum to be protected by the kft index-finger, the knife to be lateralized during and alter the opening of the urethra, and the deep incision to be limited. . 1 The Position of the Knife must be carefully attended to, especially durino- the deep or second incision. At this stage of the operation the edge should be lateralized; that is, directed about midway between the horizontal and perpendicular positions, so that the surface of the blade lies nearly parallel to the ramus of the ischium. The manner of holding the knife has been much discussed, and necessarily varies with different Surgeons. I believe it signifies little how the handle of the instrument is held between the Fig. S65.—Position of Hand and Knife (Fcrgusson). Fig. 866.—Position of Hand and Knife (Liston). Surgeon's fingers, provided the edge be never turned upwards, but be always kept well lateralized, with the point steadily pressed into the groove of the staff. In the first incision, most operators, I beheve, hold the knife under the hand, as represented in Fig. 865 ; a position which that excellent lithotomist, Fergusson, preserved throughout the operation. Liston, in the early part of his career, appears to have held the knife, in the second stage of the operation, aiove the hand ; and in all the representations that he has left of his opera- tion, he has depicted the knife and hands in the position shown in Fig. 866. There can be no doubt, however, as Fergusson has pointed out, that in actual practice, at least after his first few years as an operator, he held the knife under the hand, with the index- finger upon the side or the back of the blade. For my own part, I should say that, in operating on a child, or on an adult •with a shallow perinseum, the knife is most conveniently held as represented in Fig. 865. But if the patient be fat, and the perinseum deep, then I think that it is a question whether greater steadiness may not sometimes be secured by holding the knife somewhat in the manner of a gorget, with the index-finger perhaps a little more upon the side of the handle (Figs. 863 and 867); in this way the point is firmly pressed into the groove of the staff, out of which it cannot slip, as it is supported by the index-finger being somewhat under it. The section of the prostate is thus made by a steady thrust of the knife forwards and not by any cutting movement downwards. No danger can result in the deep incision from pushing the point of the knife up into the groove of the staff; but there is great danger of missing the bladder, and Pig. 867.—Position of Hand and Knife (Author).