r ^'26 DISEASES OF THE HLADDEli. neck of the bladder in such a way as to prevent its closing, and yet to leave sufficient room for the urine to pass. Very rare cases have been recorded occurring- in later life m which it was due to enlargement of the lateral lobes of the prostate, with a middle lobe situated between them in such a way as to keep them apart, and yet not to block the passage from the bladder. In tuberculous disease of the prostate, with extensive destruction of the gland complete incontinence may occur. Passive incontinence is occasionally met with in women, as the result of dilatation of the urethra for the removal of stone. 2. Distension of the Bladder with Overflow, as it is termed by Thompson, may be due to atony of the bladder (p. 1121), or to enlargement of the middle lobe of the prostate. The effects of atony in causing overflow of urine have already been described ; overflow from prostatic disease will l)e described subsequently. It is of the utmost importance that this condition should be distinguished from true incontinence. 3. Active Incontinence is met with most frequently in children, and is, as a rule, not constant, occurring only at night. It usually occurs in boys. It seems to arise in some cases from the patient losing command over the sphincter during sleep, as soon as a small quantity of urine has accumulated behind it. This troublesome condition may last to adult life, and is a source of great misery and discomfort. In children it is in many cases sympathetic, being dependent on the irritation of a tight foreskin, of worms in the rectum, or of a polypus. In other cases it may be merely a symptom of stone in the j bladder. In strumous children, nocturnal incontinence may be produced by I the irritation of urine containing uric acid crystals. All these conditions i must be carefully sought for in every case, and removed if possible. i^m^ Treatment.—In true incontinence little can be done beyond providing th^^l patient with a proper india-rubber urinal, which can be worn day and night. The treatment of overflow consists solely in the periodical use of the catheter (p. 1124). In nocturnal incontinence of children, if it be not connected with some evident source of local irritation, which should then be removed, the administration of tonics will be found useful—either quinine or the tincture of perchloride of iron, alone or conjoined with tincture of cantharides. If there be irritation of the mucous membrane of the bladder, the administration of alkalies, in conjunction with a tonic, as the potassio-tartrate of iron, or a little copaiba mixed with honey, will be found very serviceable. The last meal should not be immediately before bed-time, and the amount of fluid taken should be restricted. Cold sponging, light clothing at night, and means calculated to break the habit, such as waking the child at the time at which it generally occurs, changing his position in bed, &c., should not be omitted. Of all remedies for incontinence of urine in children, belladonna is the most successful. Ringer advises it to be given in full doses—from 10 to 20 minims of the tincture three times a day. Sometimes better results are obtained with atropine, which should be given at night in a dose gradually increased from y^th to as much as of a grain. In obstinate cases the passage of a sound may be useful. Hysterical Retention and Incontinence of Urine not unfi-equently occur in nervous girls, and require to be treated by anti-hysterical remedies, amongst which preparations of perchloride of iron, either alone or with valerian, will be found most useful. Cold douches are also of great service.