DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 72 treatment for these varieties of naevus. It may, however, be rendered impossible by the large size of the growth, or by its position, as for instance in the neigh- bourhood of the orbit, whilst the resulting scar is an objection to the excision of most naevi situated on the face. The most favourable cases for this treat- ment are those in which the tumour is distinctly circumscribed. It can then be dissected out with but little risk of haRniorrhage by keeping carefully outside the capsule, for, as Pridgin Teale has pointed out, the feeding arteries'are few and small. Should the najvus, however, be diffused without any distinct limiting capsule, care should be taken to cut wide of the disease ; and in such cases, as a rule, it is safer not to attempt the operation unless the growth is so situated that htemorrhage may, if necessary, be readily controlled by pressure after the operation. Excision is the only suitable treatment for a naBvus which has become cystic or lipomatous. In cases in which there is likely to be much haemorrhage, the method of excision recommended by Davies-Colley will be found very useful. Two long hare-lip pins or straight needles are passed at right angles to each other under the ntevus, and beneath the projecting ends a piece of fine elastic tubing is tightly passed so as to surround completely the part in which the incisions are made. Finally two or more wire sutures are introduced beneath the nsevus. The latter is then excised and no bleeding occurs until the pins are removed, when it can be arrested by tightening the deep silver-wire sutures. Electrolysis, or galvano-pundure, is best adapted to those cases of deep- seated naevi in which from their position excision is impracticable, or to those so situated as to make it important to leave as little scarring as possible. The operation is performed by passing into the naevus two needles, insulated except for the last quarter of an inch by a coating of copal varnish or vulcanite, and then connecting them with a galvanic current from one of the ordinary medical batteries. The current should be strong enough to decompose water, and it may be gradually increased and the effect watched. The tumour becomes hard somewhat suddenly, and assumes a pale or almost white tint ; this is a sign that enough has been done. The moment the earliest sign of harden- ing appears the needles should be disconnected, and connected with the opposite poles of the battery, so that the needle which was negative becomes positive. By doing this, haemorrhage is prevented when the needles are withdrawn, as the salts of iron formed by solution of the positive needle serve as an efficient h£emostatic. If gas bubbles out alongside the needles it is a sign that the current is too strong, and some cells should be taken olf, or sloughing may result. In deep-seated nsevi the effect can be judged of only by the hardening of the tumour. The operation has often to be repeated several times before the naevus is finally cured. If the somewhat tedious process of the cure by electrolysis is considered a serious drawback, and in cases in "which it has been unsuccessfully tried, the cautery may be used. The heated jjlatinum wire of a galvano-cautery or the fine point in PaqueHn's apparatus is passed freely in different directions into the substance of the naevus through one or more punctures in the skin. Care must be taken not to make too many punctures, lest the whole mass, slough. In this way a large naevus can often be destroyed with comparatively little loss of skin, a smooth white scar being left. It is often necessary to repeat the operation before the cure is complete. Another useful plan is to break up the substance of the growth subcutaneously by means of a cataract needle, or