446 DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. and antcro-posterior movements are prevented by two broad strips of plastei-, about three feet long and three" to five' inches wide ; one to be applied to the middle of the thigh, and the other to 'the leg opposite the calf. The strip of plaster is first fixed to one of the lateral rods, then brought over or under the limb, and back to the same bar, the remainder of the strip being wound round, including both bars and the limb. The second strip is then applied in the same way, but is fixed to the "opposite lateral rod. A broad strip of plaster is \ next applied behind the knee between the two lateral rods, so as to support the ham. liastly, a flannel bandage is smoothly applied from the toes to the groin. If properly put up the apparatus should not require changing for some weeks ; the tapes must be tightened whenever they become loose, and the flannel bandage re-applied daily, but the strapping should not be touched. In walking, a patten is worn on the boot of the sound side, so as to equalize the length of the two limbs (Fig. 584). A broad strap may be carried from the splint over the opposite shoulder, as in Fig. 584, but if the strips of plaster are properly fixed to the leg, and the tapes tied sufficiently tightly, this is not necessary, A Thomas's splint applied as above described is perhaps the most perfect apparatus ever invented for fixing the knee. If, however, all the | details are not attended to, it becomes as useless as any other form of splint. \ Even if the limb is flexed to a considerable angle, the Thomas's splint may be 1 applied as above described, slight modifications being made to suit the altered position of the limb. After a few weeks in bed the limb will usually become ; straight, if no ankylosis exists. During the time that the limb is on the splint the accessory means of treatment, such as counter-irritation or pressure by an elastic bandage, may be employed, should they be considered necessary ; but in most cases simple rest is all that is required. If the joint improves under this treatment it must be patiently continued for many months, or even a year or mure. If, in spite of treatment by rest, the joint continues to enlarge, with i increase of the pulpy swelling and perhaps signs of abscess formation, or should the joint be seen for the first time after these complications have \ arisen, operative interference is required. It is not necessary, however, to I have immediate recourse to excision or amputation, if the general health of the | patient is good and his surroundings are favourable. Simple incision of the joint, or arthrotomy, has been practised with success by H. 0. Thomas and Eushton Parker. Free lateral incisions are made as far back as possible so as to drain the cavity thoroughly. If they are made too near the patella a pouch is left behind the incisions on each side, in which the discharges may accumulate. | The incisions should extend from the level of the upper limit of the pouch of I synovial membrane above the patella to the level of the tibia. If an abscess is " burrowing beyond this point, the knife must be carried further, so as to lay it i'reely open. The incisions having been made, the pulpy granulation tissue filling the cavity of the joint may be freely scraped away with a sharp spoon, und if a carious patch be felt on either of the bones this also may be treated in the same way. In some cases sequestra may be found, and removed. The operation should be performed with the strictest antiseptic precautions. In the after-treatment drainage-tubes are not necessary if the incisions are 11 sufficiently free. The dressing must be changed at the end of the first twenty- JI four hours, as it will be soaked by the abundant bloody and serous discharge 1 f which flows away immediately after the operation. An antiseptic cotton-wool f