776 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. supposed adenoma or cancer cured by pressure were in reality merelv chronically inflamed lobules. Should it seriously annoy the patL t £ octed lobule may be removed. If the breast is widely aLted, L opeit nterference should be undertaken. In operating in doubtful cises b incision should be placed so that if the disease prove to be cancerou he whole mamma may be removed by enlarging the wound Calcification of the Breast.-Eryk has recorded a case in which an in- durated lobule underwent subsequent calcification. The disease was mistaken for scirrhus, and the whole breast removed. The calcification was found to have taken place m the interstitial connective tissue. General Diffuse Inflammation of the Breast.-Klebs describes a general chronic inflammation of the breast, at first causing some tough en argement, but finally ending in shrinking and atrophy of the gland lJUlroth also mentions a similar condition, and gives a figure of abreast which has become shrivelled and atrophied from this process. Such a condition is extremely rare. It must not be confounded with the atrophic scirrhus of old people. Chronic Abscess of the Breast may assume two forms : the Mammam and the Submammary. Chronic Encysted Abscess of the Breast is a disease of gi-eat import- ance, inasmuch as it closely simulates scirrhous carcinoma. The breast has indeed in numerous instances been amputated on the supposition of its being the seat of a cancer, when the disease was merely a very chronic thick-walled abscess. This form of abscess usually, but not invariably, commences as the result of pregnancy, whether complete parturition or miscarriage take place ; sometimes as a consequence of lacteal inflammation, but usually without any injury or other direct local cause. An indurated indolent swelling forms, and this may gradually soften in the centre ; but fluctuation may for a long time be very indistinct, and even absent, being obscured by the thick wall of indurated tissue surrounding the collection of pus. It is owing to the dense inflammatory induration of the surrounding tissues that the chronic encysted abscess is so commonly mistaken for a solid tumour. It is in general not very distinctly circumscribed, and of but moderate magnitude ; after a time it remains stationary during a space of many months, or but slowly increases with but little pain ; it is not unfrequently attended with retraction of the nipple. Diagnosis.—The error of mistaking a chronic abscess for a tumour may commonly be avoided by attention to the following points : 1, that the exist- ence of an abscess is almost invariably preceded by parturition or miscarriage; 2, that there is more or less oedema of the subcutaneous areolar tissue covering it ; 3, that, although it is of slow formation and often painless, it is not dis- tinctly circumscribed, but gradually fuses in an irregular manner with the neighbouring tissues ; 4, that it is not freely movable, but rather incorporated wit-h adjacent parts ; 5, that elasticity, or even deep fluctuation, may be commonly felt at one part of it ; and G, that in hard cancer, which it most closely resembles, the circumference is softer than the centre. In a chronic abscess or any fluid tumour, the centre gives the least sense of resistance. Should there be the least doubt in the case, the introduction of an exploring trochar, by giving issue to a drop of pus, will always determine its true nature ; indeed, this simple means of diagnosis should never be neglected in 1