25^ SPECIAL ANEURISAfS. oil V A V The later steps of the operation may be much facilitated by flexing ihQ leg the thigh, and extending the foot, so as to relax the muscles. The regular operation as performed on the dead body is rarely required on the living. It is thus carried out. The limb is flexed and laid on its outer side. An incision is made four inches in length parallel to the inner border of the tibia and about one inch behind it. The internal saphenous vein must be avoided if its situation can be ascertained. On dividing the deep fascia the edge of the gastrocnemius, if it has not fallen away to the outer side in the position of the leg, will come into view and is to be pushed to one side, exposing the surface of the soleus. This is next to be divided, the edge of the knife being now turned towards the posterior surface of the tibia. After cutting through about half an inch of muscular tissue a tendinous layer is exposed. This is the tendon of the deep surface of the soleus, and forms the first important rallying point in the operation. The tendon having been exposed in the whole length of the wound, it is picked up in the middle with a pair of forceps and carefully opened. The operator must now look to see if muscular fibres arise from its under surface. As a rule, no fibres arise from the internal half inch of the deep surface of the tendon, and if the incision through it be made at this point, the space between the deep and superficial muscles in which the artery lies is immediately opened. If the incision be more external, the fibres arising from the deep surface of the tendon must be divided before the proper space is opened. As soon as this is reached, the outer part of the soleus and the gastrocnemius must be drawn well outwards with a copper spatula, and the artery comes into view with a vein on each side, and the nerve most commonly to the outer side. The vessels are covered by the fascia which separates the superficial and deep muscles. Care must be taken in dividing the soleus not to wound the latter fascia, as, should this happen, the artery is easily lifted with the superficial muscles. The needle should be passed from the side on which the nerve lies. The posterior tibial artery behind the malleolus is reached by making a semi- lunar incision about two inches in length, curving round the posterior and lower part of the malleolus, and one finger's breadth behind it. After dividing the skin and fat, the internal annular ligament comes into view\ If the guiding line have been accurately adhered to, the artery will appear immedi- ately the annular ligament is divided. It has a thick-walled vein on either side of it, which may be mistaken for the artery in a bloodless limb, unless it be carefully examined. The nerve lies behind and external to the artery, and the needle must be passed from behind. The most common error in tying this artery arises from keeping to the convex instead of to the concave side of the wound while deepening the incision. The deep parts of the incision thus gradually approach the malleolus, and the tendons are reached instead of the artery. The tendon of the tibiahs posticus is that exposed, as it is most superficial. The artery must then be looked for behind this, and immediatdy beneath the annular ligament. If the dissection be carried on past the sheath of the tibialis posticus till the flexor longus digitorum comes into view, it will pass beneath the artery, which is usually then held out of the way in the Pig. 002.— Diagram of Right Posterior Tibial Artery, beliiud Inner Malleolus. A. PosieriorTi- bial Artery. V. V. Venffi co- in ites. N. PosteriorTi- blal Nerve.