1097 CHOICE OF OPERATION FOR STONE. the thorough washing out of the bladder with the evacuator, as these con- .rebioiis are commonly the result of chronic cystitis, with aUcaline decompo- sition of the urine. But the shattered state of system, and the irritable . ondition of the urinary organs accompanying phosphatic calculi, often ounterbalance the advantage that would otherwise have been derived from the character of the stone. The presence of several stones does not add materially to the difficulties ot lithotrity. If, however, the numbers are very large and the size small, it would perhaps be safer to remove them by lithotomy than by_ a prolonged crushing operation which might take one or two hours. Thus, in one case I removed 50 small calculi, varying from a quarter to half an inch in diameter, liy the median operation. Occasionally multiple calculi are very small, so that they can mostly be washed out uncrushed through the evacuator; from 50 to 100 separate stones may be thus removed. The rule may, therefore, at the present time, be summarised thus :—Any stone which can be grasped by the lithotrite and broken may be removed by lithotrity provided other conditions are favourable. 2. The Conditions of the Urinary Organs that influence the pro- ])riety of performing hthotrity or hthotomy have reference to the state of the kidneys, the bladder, the urethra, and ihQ prostate. The question of the advisability of lithotrity was, before Bigelow's improve- ments in the operation, much influenced by the degree of irritability of the bladder and urethra, and the ease with which the patient bore the introduction of instruments, but these points have little influence now that the operation is done at one sitting under an ansesthetic. In fact an irritable patient would suffer far less from lithotrity than from lithotomy. Cystitis, if moderate in degree, is no bar to lithotrity at one sitting unless the stone be very large ; in fact the removal of'the calculus and the thorough cleaning of the bladder by the evacuator frequently leads to rapid improve- ment. If, however, the stone is large, the cystitis severe, the irritabihty of the bladder great, and more especially if the patient be old and the inflamma- tion has not yielded to the ordinary treatment, lithotomy will probably be the ^afer proceeding. Great hypertrophy of the bladder with fasciculation and sacculation are disadvantageous for lithotrity owing to the difficulty of com- pletely removing the fragments with the evacuator. ■Still by thorough washing and by repeating it, perhaps in a few days, the difficulties may be overcome. The difficulties in lithotrity from atony of the bladder have already been described (p. 1091). At the present time atony of the bladder is no objection to lithotrity. Stricture of the urethra under ordinary circumstances otters no great obstruction to lithotrity (p. 1089). In fact, if a staff can be passed on»- which lithotomy could safely be performed, the stricture can easily be stretched up to the point necessary to admit the lithotrite and the evacuating catheters. I'inlargement of the prostate, unless very excessive, offers but little difficulty in lithotrity (p. 1088). Acute inflammatory disease, or abscess of the prostate, necessarily prevents the performance of lithotrity. In encysted calculus lithotrity is obviously impossible. The condition of the kidneys merits special attention. If these organs be the seat of consecutive nephritis (p. 1001), the danger of any prolonged opera- tion in the bladder is greatly increased. If, therefore, the stone be a large one, and especially if cystitis also be present, lithotomy is probably the safer opera-