691 EXCISION OF THE TONGUE. necessitate a sudden performance of laryngotomy, or may even cost the patient his life. If the patient be efficiently gagged the jet of blood from a divided lingnal artery will usually be thrown out of the mouth, aiid cause but liDtle trouble. If a gag be used which acts on one side only, the tongue must be fully exposed by a cheek-retractor applied on the opposite side. During the operation the tongue must be controlled by a strong whipcord ligature passed through it about an inch from its tip. If only a small portion of the anterior part is to be removed, a single thread will suffice. In removing half the tongue two ligatures must be passed, one on each side of the middle line, so as to control not only the part to be removed, but the remaining part also, Pig. 'r4().—Laiigenbeek's Gag. SO that the stump may be drawn forwards at the end of the operation to arrest haemorrhage. When a portion only of the tongue is to be removed this may be done by the scissors, knife, or ecraseur. For the purposes of operation the tongue may be divided into three regions : viz., the anterior third, the central lateral portion, and the posterior part. Excision of a small part of the Tongue may readily and safely be done when the free anterior portion only is diseased, or when it is only super- ficially affected at its side or back part. The patient having been gagged, the tongue is secured by passing a thread through it. It is then drawn well forward while the lingual artery is compressed ui the way recommended by C. Heath. To do this the forefinger is passed over the dorsum of the tongue ill it touches the epiglottis ; it is then turned towards the side on which the artery is to be compressed, and hooked forcibly upwards against the jaw. The diseased portion of the tongue is then cut out with scissors. If the artery be well compressed the operation will be practically bloodless. On removing the pressure the larger vessels are seized in forcipressure forceps, and twisted or ligatured, and the oozing will soon cease on the application of sponge- pressure. Strangulation of the diseased mass by the ligature is a mode of operatino- which is now completely abandoned. ^ Excision of the Whole or of a Large Portion of the Tongue.—This Operation may be performed in four ways : 1. From the inside of the mouth, without any external incisions. 2. By the submental method, through the mylo-hyoid space. 3. By the buccal method, a free incision being made through the cheek ; and 4. By division of the lower lip and jaw. 1. The excision of the whole tongue from within the mouth was rarely performed until the fear of hasmorrhagc during the operation was practically removed by the introduction of the ecraseur by Ohassaignac. At the present y Y 2