1192 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. The stricture is then dilated by forcing down the olive-shaped divulsor whi.-h 18 deeply grooved to run on the guiding rod. Being olive-shaped it pas^ more easily as in Hill's dilator, not being grasped by the whole canal l<orcible dilatation is doubtless a most efficient mode of treating strictur. by It the urethra is immediately restored to its full diameter, and the result which It may take weeks to accomplish by simple dilatation is at onc« obtained. It is, however, by no means devoid of danger. The urethra is not dilated, It IS split, and a longitudinal rent in the mucous membrane is madp corresponding to the length of the stricture. The shock produced by so violent a proceeding is often severe, and suppression of urine has followed in several recorded cases. It has also sometimes been followed by urinary abscess and more rarely by pyemia. What it gains in rapidity it loses in safety and Fig. 922.—Bigelow's Divulsor. to adopt it as a universal mode of treating strictures would lead to the loss of many lives that might have been saved by more gentle treatment. 5. Division of the Stricture may be practised either from ivithm the urethra, or from ivUhout, through the perineeum. Internal Urethrotomy.—The division from ivithin may be performed in two ways : either by cutting through the stricture from before backwards, or by passing an instrument through it, and dividing it from behind forwards. The lirst method is attended with great danger unless the instrument is pro- vided with a guide which ensures that the urethrotome is really in the stricture. On the other hand, the operation of cutting from behind forwards could not, until recently, be performed unless the stricture was capable of admitting a No. 5 at least. The Surgeons to whom we are most indebted for improvements in the instruments employed, are Van Buren, Goule}^ and Otis of New York, Maisonneuve of Paris, and Berkeley Hill of London. The objects in view have been, first, to provide a safe and certain guide for a small cutting instrument, and secondly, so far to diminish the size of the instruments as to make them available for strictures not capable of taking more than a No. 1 catheter. Lastly, as it was found that the great mobility of the urethra rendered it difficult in many cases to divide the stricture, a combination of stretching and cutting was introduced by Otis, which greatly facilitates the operation.