932 aPEMATIONS ON THE ABDOMINAL VIHCEHA. however that if tlie doubt is great, the sooner an exploratory laparotomv performed the better. Tbe eareful examination of the pelvic' J^TT^Z female is of the greatest importance, and the close resembulnce of the and physical signs of a ruptured pyosalpinx must be borne in mind ' It the case be first seen after the development of a neritynhlitio he history will usually serve to distinguish it from other Sr f sutur tion, such as that due to bone disease. The chief difficulty is lik^ t" anse when the abscess takes an unusual course, passing upwards into the loL or across to the left ihac region. A perinephritic abscess scarcely ever oc 1 Av.thout pus in the urine. In chronic cases the dense inflammatory sw.llin^ imy be indistinguishable in the female from that due to pelvic peritonitJf and has also been confounded with a localized tuberculous peritonitis and a sohd tumour, such as a sarcoma in the iliac fossa. Treatmmi.-\xv the mild forms of typhlitis the treatment is purely medical and consists essentially in the administration of opium, a restricted fluid diet' the use of enemata, and the local application of hot fomentations. Surgical treatment m these cases is altogether uncalled for, except in the exceptional instances when comparatively mild symptoms are followed by suppuration In the more severe cases in which perforation of the appendix is suspected the early treatment will depend upon the intensity of the symptoms. If these be very severe, and the diagnosis from some other form of perforation or from intestinal obstruction be obscure, immediate operation is indicated. If the appendix be found perforated it should be removed, and the peritoneum thoroughly cleansed. Far more often, however, there are no definite indica- tions for immediate operation, and this is deferred until called for on account of the presence of pus. The treatment from the first will be carried out on the lines above indicated for simple typhlitis, and operation will be required if the increase of the local symptoms indicates the occurrence of suppuration. An incision should then be made, and every care taken to reach the abscess- cavity without disturbing the adhesions by which it is localized. For this reason an incision in the middle Une should be avoided, as in this way the abscess will be reached from the peritoneal cavity, and diffuse peritonitis veiy likely set up. Of the other tw'o available incisions—a vertical one in the linea semilunaris, and an oblique one above the outer part of Poupart's ligament, as for ligature of the external iliac artery—the latter is the better, as it leads down to the abscess in a position farthest removed from the general peritoneal cavity. When the pus, which is often very fetid, is reached, a suitable drainage tube should be inserted, and all fiirther disturbance of the part avoided. No special steps should be taken to see the appendix, and only if it at once presents and is non-adherent should it be ligatured and excised. If it be found necessary to open the abscess through non-adherent peritoneum, strips of gauze should be carefully introduced around it before the pus is evacuated, and a drainage tube inserted. The favourable cases are undoubtedly those in which a localized abscess exists, and is not complicated with general peritonitis. If diffuse peritonitis is also present the chances of a favourable result are small. The only hope for the patient consists in providing free drainage for the localized collection of pus, and then irrigat- ing and draining the general peritoneum through a median incision. Relapsing Typhlitis.—In 1887 Treves first suggested the treatment of certain cases of relapsing typhlitis by excision of the appendix, and the opera-