"-^^ J^ISEASES OF THE FUOSTATE. instruments but in a considerable proportion of cases it is not noticed befon- the use ot tlie catheter has been commenced. Should it happen, the cystiti becomes more acute, and the symptoms of septic poisoning-febrile distu, bance, great depression, brown tongue, nausea, delirium, &c.-may set in an.l erminate fatally, when septic inflammation of the kidneys, by extension un the ureter, will usually be fouu.l to have been the immediate cause of death Complete Retention of Urine from Enlarged Prostate is a commo., complication o the disease. It may arise in a patient who has not been ah!- to empty his bladder for some time, and is little more than an aggravation of his usual condition, or it may occur in an old man whose prostate is consider- ably enlarged, but who, under ordinary circumstances, gets rid of his urine without difficulty. In the latter case it is due to congestion and swelling oi' the diseased gland, usually induced by exposure to cold, or by alcoholic uv ^•enereal excesses. It is especially apt to occur after drinking the sour ba<l wmes usually provided at public dinners. Diagnosis.—The exact condition of the enlarged prostate can be ascertained only by examination through the rectum and urethra. By rectal exploration with the finger, the degree of enlargement of the lateral lobes can best be ascertained : though, as in many cases the end of the finger cannot reach the further extremity of the gland, it will be impossible to say to what extent the hypertrophy has extended. The urethral exploration must be conducted hy means of a long gum-elastic or a silver prostatic catheter, and will afford information that rectal exploration cannot give ; by it are ascertained approximately the size of the middle lobe, and the condition of the urethra as to elongation and curve. The diagnosis of enlarged prostate has to be made from, 1, Stricture of the Urethra ; 2, Calculus of the Bladder : 3, Vesical Tumour; 4, Chronic Cystitis: 5, Atony of the Bladder ; 6, Paralysis of the Bladder. 1. In Stricture the stream of urine is small, but the jet is increased hv straining, while in enlarged prostate the stream is dribbling, but not reduced in volume, and straining only makes matters worse. Stricture most com- monly occurs before middle life, prostatic disease always after. In stricture the obstruction is within six inches of the meatus ; in prostatic disease it is at least seven from the orifice. It is not wise, however, to trust too implicitly to measurements in inches, as the penis varies considerably in length. If the finger be passed into the rectum, it can at once be determined whether the point of obstruction is in front of the apex of the prostate. 2. Calculus presents many symptoms in common with enlarged prostate, and its more special symptoms may be absent. In stone the frequency of micturi- tion is greater by day, in prostatic disease it is worse at night. The presence of a small quantity of florid blood in the urine passed after exercise should make the Surgeon strongly suspect the presence of a stone ; but the use of the sound will alone lead to an exact diagnosis. 3. Vesical Tumour gives rise to more pain and tenderness on the introduc- tion of instruments than prostatic enlargement; and the urine generally con- tains blood and mucus, often with sabulous matter. Microscopic examination of the contents of the urine may show the presence of the tissues of the tumour. Malignant tumours may often be felt through the rectum ; while villous growths give rise to the almost constant presence of blood in the urine. t