236 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. ciilty. Since that time the operation has been done twenty-four times : in nine cases with success, by Arndt, Wliitc, Mott, Syme, Morton, Gallozzi, Chew, Dennis and Treves ; in fifteen cases unsuccessfully, by Atkinson, of York (whose patient died on the nineteenth day, of secondary haemorrhage), by Bigelow, Torracchi, Cianflone, Porta, Landi, Kimball, Altmii'ller, Thomas, J- K. Eodgers, Higginson and Dennis ; and three times by the Surgeons in the American Civil War. The success that has hitherto attended this operation is certainly remark- able, when we take into consideration the depth at which the artery is situated and its great .size ; it may, I think, be accounted for in part by the fact that, although in these cases the patient runs the ordinary risk attendant on the ligature of the larger pelvic arteries from the exposure and handling of the peritoneum, yet he is saved from danger resulting fi'om the supervention of gan- grene ; the anastomosis being so free, and the course traversed by the blood so short, that no difficulty can arise in the maintenance of the collateral circulation. The internal iliac artery may be exposed by methods precisely analogous to those used for the ligature of the common trunk. When the vessel is reached it must be remembered that both the external and internal iUac veins are in close relation to it ; the one being to its outer side, the other behind it. As those vessels are large, and their coats thin, it is necessary that they should be separated by the finger-nail, or the blunt end of the aneurism needle, before the ligature is passed round the artery; care must be taken also not to put the vessel too much on the stretch in applying the ligature, lest the ilio-lumbar artery be ruptured. There is little risk of including the ureter which crosses the artery internally as it always adheres firmly to the peritoneum and is pushed on. one side with it. As the length of the artery varies much, usually ranging between one and two inches, and as when it is short it has a tendency to be placed deeply in the pelvis, it would, I think, be more prudent, and occasion less chance of secondary heemorrhage, for the Surgeon to ligature the common trunk. The transperitoneal method is likely to be the only one employed in future cases, and the steps are the same as for ligature of the common ihac (p. 230). It has hitherto been put in practice at least four times. In the first case, Dennis opened the abdomen and applied a catgut ligature to each internal iliac artery in a case of double gluteal aneurism. The intestines were held on one side by warm sponges and cloths, and the arteries easily exposed by dividing the peritoneum covering them. The operation lasted about 30 minutes. The patient, a female, never completely rallied from the operation, and died on the fourth day from suppression of urine. There was no peritonitis. In the second case. Chew opened the abdomen in the line of the usual incision for ligature of the internal iliac, and the patient, a negro aged 46, rapidly recovered. In the third case, Dennis successfully tied the artery, opening the abdomen in the linea alba. In a fourth case Treves tied the artery with success in a case of vascular tumour of the buttock. The patient was a boy, aged sixteen, and the artery was reached through a median incision below the unibihcus. FEMORAL AND POPLITEAL ANEURISMS. Aneurisms of the thigh are much rarer than those -afiFecting the groin, but those in the ham are relatively much more common. Thus out of 551 cases