OSTEOPLASTIC OSTEITIS. 261 chronic process. It may occur as a sequence of diffuse rarefactive osteitis or aX sCidai^^ result of some central mischief occurring in the cance lou or medulla, or as a consequence of syphilis. Osteoplastic osteitis s characterized by a development of new bone in the connective tissue s r- oundtg he veLls in the Haversian canals. The mode of formation of the osseous tissue is the same as in osteoplastic periostit s. As he result ^^^^^^^^^^ process the bone becomes greatly increased in density, frequently with com pete obhteration of many of the Haversian canals. This may even go on to sud an extent as to cut off the vascular supply from a portion of bone and thus cause its death. The bone, may acquire the consistence of ivory. At tne same time it may increase in thickness, partly from a simultaneous growth ot bonefi-om the periosteum, and partly apparently from interstitial growth in the bone itself. The new bone, though denser in structure, resembles healthy osseous tissue when examined by the microscope. The two processes just described, osteoplastic and rarefactive osteitis, not unfrequently go on side by side, giving rise to the appearance known as expansion of bone. The compact tissue, when thus affected, becomes more spongy than natural, and the arrangement of its structure is often more or less completely altered. In normal compact tissue some of the superhciaUamelte lie parallel to the surface, but for the greater part they are arranged circularly around the Haversian canals ; not unfi-equently, however, we find m chronic osteitis that the compact structure undergoes a peculiar laminated expansion, so that a section of it presents throughout parallel layers, concentric with the medulla. The lamelte are separated from each other by pink vascular tissue. This change is necessarily accompanied by considerable increase m size of the affected bone, which may extend throughout a great part of its length. Microscopic examination shows, in such a case as this, that the pmk tissue between the bony lamina is composed chiefly of round cells, like those of ordinary granulation tissue, but on one side of the lamella the cells in contact with the osseous layer are assuming the form of osteoblasts, indicating that formation of bone is taking place ; while, on the other, the surface of the lamella is irregular, presenting the hollows known as Howship's lacunae, and in these are the large multi-nucleated cells, or osteoclasts, which are indicative of destruction of bone (Fig. 503). This process, when occurring as a patho- logical change, is usually regarded as inflammatory, but the close analogy between it and normal growth is evident. In the growing bone of a child the medullary canal is hollowed out by a process similar to that just described, and new bone is constantly deposited on the surface by the periosteum. In chronic osteitis with " expansion " of the bone, the chief difference is in the diffusion of the process throughout the compact tissue and its irregularity. If the source of irritation to which the expanding osteitis is due be removed, the destructive part of the change ceases and new bone is formed on both sides of the lamellpe, and thus, while the abnormal size is more or less completely retained, the structure becomes as dense as, or sometimes denser than, normal compact tissue. In some few cases the appearances presented by the diseased bone are such as to suggest that the periosteum takes but little part in the process, but more commonly expansion of the compact tissue is associated with laminated deposits of new bone from the periosteum. Expansion of bone by a tumour is a change of the same character, the destructive processes just described taking place in the parts pressed on by the