VOL. II. 3 G he )V he n SEPTIC FERITONlTm AND SEPTICAEMIA. 817 ,e inflammatoiT products find their way readily to the surface If the oc s Bufficient intensity an abundant coagulable exudation takes place ; fibxS entangling white corpuscles forms a layer of "lymph'' on the Imed surface, and the serum drains away into the peritonea cavity The .dtonen;n from its intimate connexion with the lymphatic system is ,:,s8essed of the power of absorption in the highest degree The seruni noured out at the seat of inflammation is therefore absorbed with great Liditv by the healthy part of the membrane, and unless the quantity be ;erv considerable the cavity is kept dry. The experiments by which this xtraordinary absorbing power of the peritoneum has been demonstrated have already been alluded to (Vol. L, p. 890). The coagulable exudation which rovers the inflamed surface glues it to any contiguous layer of peritoneum lud adhesions are thus formed which subsequently become vascularized and undero-o development into connective tissue by processes identical to those occLirHng in the formation of fibrous tissue in the union of a wound. It is by this process that adhesions form between inflamed coils of intestine, and rhat ligatures, sutures, and other simple foreign bodies become buried and encapsuled. It forms an essential part of the union of all wounds of the iperitoneum, and is often the means of saving the patient's life by preventing perforation of the hollow viscera, or the rupture of collections of pus into the cavity of the abdomen. It is the object of the Surgeon to exclude all those sources of irritation which can convert this simple localized inflammation into a difl'ase or spreading process. The causes of spreading inflammations, as already pointed out (Yol. I., p. 17G), are the chemical products of fermentative processes taking place in the normal fluids of the body, or in inflammatory exudations or other collections of fluid. For the development of septic processes in the peritoneum two conditions are necessary : first, the presence of the putrescible matter, and secondly, the contact with it of organisms capable of setting up fermentative or putrefactive changes. The putrescible matter is furnished by the liquid part of the inflammatory exudation, or by extravasated blood. The organisms may reach it either from the external wound, carried in by the Surgeon's liands, the sponges, the hgatures, or by the air ; or in those cases in which the gut is injured, as in strangulated hernia, they may find their way from the interior of the intestine through the damaged coats. When infection occurs from without, the organism which appears to be most commonly met with is the streptococcus pyogenes, although other pyogenic organisms may be present. In cases in which the peritoneum is invaded from the bowel the organism which is almost invariably present is the bacterium coli commune. This rod-shaped organism which was first described by Escherich in 1885, abounds in the intestine, especially in the colon and duodenum. The organism is found in many different varieties, and appears to vary much in virulence according to the healthy or diseased condition of the bowel. It may reach the cavity of the peritoneum through a perforation of the bowel, or through a gangrenous patch, and independently of these it can pass through the wall of the bowel when the latter is damaged to an extent sufiiciently to impair its normal vitality. Although it is possible that a simple chemical irritant may cause peritonitis it seems far more probable that it acts merely by sufficiently damaging the coats of the bowel to allow the escape of micro- organisms from its interior.