I I220 DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. If, however, tlie phimosis, though acquired, be permanent, it should Ije sub- jected to operation. A long foreskin, if a source of annoyance to an adult, may easily be remedied by keeping it constantly drawn back. At first the tendency foi- the prepucf^ to slip forwards must be overcome by wrapping a piece of dry lint round it and securing it by an elastic band, which must be just tight enough to keep it in position. After a few weeks the foreskin will retain the retracted posi- tion, and after a year or so will be found to have undergone considerable- diminution in size. Operations for Phimosis may be conducted on three plans: the elongated and contracted prepuce may be dilated, or slit up, or circumcision may be performed. 1. Dilatation of the Prepuce by the expansion of a pair of forceps intro- duced through the orifice cannot be recommended as good treatment for con- genital phimosis. It often causes so much swelling that circumcision becomes necessary, and as the administration of an anaesthetic is required it is much better to proceed at once to that operation. In the acquired phimosis of old men I have found that dilatation may speedily be effected by the introduction of a two-bladed dilator, and in certain cases in which any cutting operation is contra-indicated this may be the only available treatment. 2. Slitting up of the Prepuce upon its upper surface is an objectionable, procedure, leaving the prepuce of abnormal length, and more or less fissured and knobbed. In all cases I prefer circumcision, as giving the most satis- factory result. 3. Circumcision is by far the most satisfactory treatment for phimosis,. whether congenital or acquired. According to the Hebrew rite the operation, is performed on the eighth day after birth, as follows :—The child being held on the lap of an assistant, the operator draws the foreskin slightly forwards, and then grasps it just in front of the glans by drawing it through a slit in a silver guard. This is not held perpendicularly, but is inclined from above slightly forwards and downwards, so as to avoid cutting the fraeuum, and to slice off the prepuce in an oblique manner. This is done by one stroke of a broad round-ended knife. The mucous membrane is then torn open between the finger and thumb along the dorsum of the penis, and is turned back so as to be brought into contact with the cut edge of the skin. A strip of dry lint, is then twisted round the organ in the sulcus behind the glans, so as to keep, back the mucous membrane, and also to restrain hjemorrhage by its pressure., Union is perfect in a few days. The operation is very rarely attended with; any ill consequences. I have, however, seen it in one case followed by fatal erysipelas, and have heard of another instance in which death occurred from haemorrhage. The Op&ration is most conveniently performed as fohows :—A general antesthetic should as a rule be administered, although in exceptional circum- stances cocaine may be used. Except in the case of young children htemor- rhage during the operation may be restrained by a tape or a piece of fine rubber tubing, tied tightly round the root of the penis. The Surgeon then draws the prepuce forwards until the portion of it which corresponds to the back of the glans is brought just in front of that structure. In young children especially care must be taken not to remove too much skin. The projecting prepuce is then seized just in front of the glans with a pair of narrow-bladed