65^ PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. CHAPTER LVI. PLASTIC SURGEKY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. tionJfW^f'° Surgery is meant the performance of opera- ions tor the repair of deficiencies in structure, whether resultin- from iiW from disease, or from malformation. ^ vJfor/''''. P°^'^^°^« of the body may retain sufficient vitahty to become again adherent, when attached only by a very narrow tongue of tissue to the part from which they have been all but sep ra™ This has often been observed in injuries of the face and fingers, portionrof which have been almost completely severed, and yet have nnited again on being replaced. But there is a sufficient number of cases on record to show that certain parts, when completely separated, may, after being replaced, again become adherent. The most remarkable instances of this kind are those which are related by Hoff-acher, and attested by Chelius and Velpeaa. Molfacher was officially appointed to attend as Surgeon at the duels which were then, as now, frequent amongst the students at Heidelberg ; and, as at these encounters swords were used, he had an opportunity of seeino- a con- siderable number of incised wounds, and has related no fewer than sixteen cases in which portions of the nose, lips, or chin had been sliced off, and, being put on again, contracted adhesions. Amongst the most remarkable of these IS one in which the end of the nose was sliced off, and fell under a chest of drawers ; it was not found for some time, but, on being recovered and washed, was stitched on, and became firmly attached. In another instance, a dog that was in the room snapped up the detached portion of the organ as it fell to the ground, but the nose, being immediately taken out of the animal's mouth and put on again, became firmly fixed. In order that union should take place between parts that have been separated completely or nearly so, and the rest of the body, it is necessary that they be soft and vascular, and more especially that their structure be of a homogeneous character such as is met with in the tissues of the face, where no very large blood-vessels, nerves, tendons, or bones are found. It is the same in plastic operations, which succeed best under similar conditions of tissue, and which are conducted on the same princij)le as an attempt at union in a partially severed structure. It is principally for deformities and loss of the nose and lip that plastic operations are of much service ; they may, however, occasionally be had recourse to in other situations, as about the cheeks and eyelids. Reference has already been made (Vol. L, p. 899) to the performance of plastic opera- tions on the perinseum. In the practice of this very interesting branch of surgery, there is much opportunity for the display of manual dexterity. On this, indeed, almost the whole success of the operation depends ; and a vast deal may be done in apparently the most unpromising cases by skill and patience. In these operative procedures the names of Serres, Dieffcnbach,