958 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. system and the development of secondary visceral j^rovvths. Not unfrenuentiv the misery is much increased by the formation of fistulous ope ^ J howel, and communication between it and neighbonrin^ pa ts, s 1 vagina bladder, or urethra, with cancerous implication of Ihem Fla uV we 1 as fences thus get entrance into the bladder or vagina ; the flatus a sin. out with a rush the faeces sometimes obstructing the urethra, and ofin v ^ seriously irritating the bladder, producing strangury and great pain ^ On examination of the rectum with the finger, the condition^ will be found to vary much m different cases. The growth is hard and irregular, u ua iv extensively ulcerated and has a raised well-defined edge, which is eve ted and may even overhang the surrounding mucous membrane. The growth mJt limited 0 one aspect of the bowel, so that its whole outline can be felt bu ft-equen ly it surrounds the gut, and the finger enters the contracted lum^n L the centre of the mass. In such case the circular growth is often more or less prolapsed into the part of the rectum below it, giving to the finger a sensation not unlike that of the cervix uteri, the narrowed lumen being felt at the anex of hard projecting mass. When the growth is low down, the anus is often unusually patulous ; when high up, the condition of " ballooning of the rectum ' is often the first thing which attracts attention on introducing i^he finger (p. 954). ^ Death may put an end to the patient's sufferings in several ways • by exhaustion from pam and continuous discharge, together with constitutional cachexia ; by perforation of the cancerous mass, which, ulcerating through at some point, opens into the peritoneal cavity, or by hsemorrhage, inducing fatal collapse ; and in other instances by faecal obstruction, as in the case of simple stricture. The reason Avhy intestinal obstruction is not more common than it is m cancer of the rectum is, that in many cases the diseased mass ulcerates and necroses more rapidly than it grows into the bowel, and thus an irregular chasm is left in its centre, through which the feeces pass. Treatment.—This must necessarily in a large proportion of cases be merely palliative. The bowels must be relieved by occasional doses of castor-oil or by emollient enemata. The patient's sufferings may in many cases be much relieved by limiting him to a diet composed solely of material not likely to leave any solid residue, such as carefully prepared and strained arrowi'oot, and meat-broths of various kinds, to which a little brandy or wine may be added. If the patient at the same time be kept warm in bed in the recumbent position so as to economise force as much as possible, he may maintain his strength fairly well on a comparatively small quantity of food. Small doses of opium may be given to relieve pain. On this diet one action of the bowels about every three weeks will be quite sufficient. It will usually occur spontaneously without the necessity of administering a purgative. If there is much pain, hypodermic injections of morphine, often to a large amount, are required to lessen the patient's distress. As further palliative treatment Colotomy may be required. This operation is performed for one of three reasons:—1. To relieve the intense agony resulting from the passage of faeces over the ulcerated cancerous mass ; 2. To relieve the suffering and discomfort occasioned by the fajces jjassing into the bladder or vagina ; 3. For the relief of more or less complete obstruction, giving rise to distension of the abdomen, with retained ffeces. Colotomy as a palliative has proved most successful in affording the desired relief; by its