V w m SUPRAPUBIC LITHOTOMY. 1045 lined its handle maybe depressed so as to make its point project, pushing The before it. The bladder is recognized in the adult by its muscu ar Hbres • in children, Dulles states that its bluish-grey colour is characteristic. The bladder having been fully exposed aud recognized, the next point is to .ecure it before an opening is made. Unless this be done it will collapse as ,ou as it is punctured, and, sinking down in the pelvis, may only be recovered ibh difficulty. The safest method is to pass two silk stitches through its nmscular coat, so as to obtain a firm hold on each side of the middle line. If the coats are thin, or if it be not intended to suture the bladder after the operation, the threads mav include the mucous coat also. The bladder beino- thus secured, and the muscular fibres being clearly visible, showing that^it is not covered by peritoneum, a scalpel is thrust into it with the back directed upwards, and an incision of sufficient size to admit the finger IS made downwards towards the pubes. The finger is then inserted and the size of the stone ascertained. If it be small it may at once be seized and removed in an ordinary pair of lithotomy forceps. If it be larger the wound must be carefully enlarged downwards with a probe-pomted bistoury. It is better to do this by cutting than by stretching or tearing, as there is but little bleeding, and if it is intended to suture the bladder the wound should i be made as cleanly as possible. Thompson finds that in many cases the stone . 'may conveniently be removed between the two forefingers, the others being locked together so as to convert the two hands into a kind of forceps. If the contents of the bladder are foul it is well to wipe the wound over with chloride of zinc (40 gr, to 3]), and to dust it with iodoform before making the incision into it. The stone having been extracted, the bladder may be cleaned with a sponge to remove any clots of blood. If the wall of the bladder be thick and healthy and its contents free from decomposition, the wound may be closed with fine carbolized silk or catgut sutures. To do this a stitch must first be passed beyond the upper part of the wound, taking a hold on the muscular coat only on each side of the line of the incision. By means of this the bladder can be drawn up while a series of stitches are inserted about a sixth of an inch apart in the same way as in Lembert's suture of wounded intestine. The last stitch must be beyond the lower end of the wound. The two stitches beyond the wound, above and below, are essential to prevent leakage. The bladder is then tested by distending it again with boric acid solution, and its cavity is at the same time washed free from blood. If the bladder wall be very thin, if there is much cystitis, aud especially if in the case of a large stone the edges of the wound have been bruised during extraction, no attempt should be made to close the vesical opening by sutures, as it would certainly fail. Even Avhen the bladder is healthy, suture not un- commonly fails, and for this reason many Surgeons never attempt it. If the opening is not closed by sutures a short india-rubber tube should be inserted. The treatment of the external wound varies with that of the bladder. If the latter has been closed by sutures, a drainage-tube must be inserted at the lower end of the external wound, and the upper part may be closed and an antiseptic dressing applied. By this means an exit is left for the urine if the sutures give way. If a tube is inserted into the bladder the external wound should be left open or its upper part closed, according to its size. The strictest antiseptic precautions should be observed throughout the operation.