TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF LYMPHATIC GLANDS. 47 all intermediate varieties are found between the two forms. The flattened cells covering the trabeculse, and lying on the meshes of the reticulum of the o-land, proliferate, and may sometimes be recognized forming a coarse network amongst the lymphoid corpuscles. At first the gland is more vascular than natural, but from the pressure of the accumulated cells the vessels soon become obliterated, and non-vascular areas are formed. By naked-eye examination alone it may be difficult or impossible to decide whether the condition is one of simjDle chronic inflammation or of an early stage of tuberculous disease. The first definite evidence of the latter is usually the presence of grey or yellow tubercles dotted about in the gland tissue. We have already seen that the tubercle is commonly deposited in glands already chronically inflamed ; if, however, the gland is afifected secon- darily to a tuberculous disease of the region from which it receives its lymph, it is probably tuberculous from the beginning. Small caseous points soon appear, and these may gradually increase in size, and coalesce till the whole gland becomes a uniform caseous mass still enclosed in the capsule, which is often considerably thickened. The caseation may terminate the process, the cheesy mass remaining dry and encapsuled without further change. ' In other cases it is followed by a deposit of lime salts, and the diseased gland forms a hard calcareous mass. These formations most commonly occur in the glands of the abdomen and thorax. In superficial glands the caseation is more com- monly followed by softening of the cheesy mass, which breaks down into a thick fluid not unlike clotted cream. The softening is accompanied by inflammation, and the slow formation of pus in the tissues round the gland, the capsule gives way at the most superficial part, and the fluid gradually approaches the surface. The chronic abscess thus formed is very slow in perforating the skin, often undermining it for some distance before finding an exit. Microscopic examination in the early stages shows the usual structure of tubercle ; small non-vascular areas are seen consisting of giant cells, epithe- lioid cells, and lymphoid corpuscles. The caseation commences in the non-vascular spots, and gradually extends. The trabecute disappear last in the caseating process. In a considerable pro- portion of cases the tubercle bacillus oan be found in the cheesy glands. The softened caseous product of tuberculous lymphatic glands has long been believed to be a source of general infection, the fine granular de1)ris enterino- the cn-culation and lodging in distant parts, and there causing the growth oi' tubercle. Koch's discovery of the bacillus of tubercle showed that in these cases the bacilli or their spores are the actual infective material. This general infection when it does occur is however merely an accidental occurrence the vast majority of patients who sufier from caseating lymphatic glands escaping with nothing more than the local disease. " In whatever way occurring, inflammation of the lymphatic glands always causes obstruction to the flow of lymph through them, and if the whole or the greater part of the glands of a hmb be afi-ected, oedema, often of a solid character, may occur in the parts from which they receive their afferent lymphatic vessels. The Diagnosis of tuberculous disease of the lymphatic glands is rarely ^ vll/' i""^*^^; ''"^P^' ^^Ifl^^nmation the distinction H.?nn. '^^V f' ™Po«sible ; but the progressive enlargement and the occurrence of softening will usually, sooner or later, reveal the nature of th