ACCIDENTS AFTER LITHOTRITY. 1091 it be so great as to threaten abscess or a fatal termination, the better plan would be to remove it tln-ough a median incision /he permimun it sucb .n operation as this be required, the Surgeon might feel disposed to extend the iacision a little, and empty the bladder of any remaining detritus by means ot ' Cystitis.—The occurrence of cystitis was formerly attributed solely to the mechanical irritation to which the bladder is subjected during the operation. The success which has attended lithotrity at a single sitting has however demonstrated beyond a doubt that the bladder is much more tolerant ot mechanical irritation than was at one time believed. The effect produced .lirectly by the operation is, in most cases, limited to shght cataiThal m- tlamraation, with an abundant secretion of mucus and some irritabihty ot the bladder. In the operation by numerous sittings this was frequently ao-gravated by the presence of large and angular fragments. The thick iiiiicus secreted under these circumstances is never perfectly expelled, but a certain amount remains adhering to the mucous membrane of the bladder after micturition. This speedily undergoes decomposition, and the most potent cause of cystitis is the contact of this foul mixture of mucus and urine within the interior of the bladder. When decomposition sets m, the alkaline products of the decomposing urine render the mucus thick and ropy, and this still further adds to the difficulty of its complete expulsion. Under these circumstances the patient becomes poisoned by the absorption of the putrid contents of the inflamed bladder, the temperature rises, the tongue becomes brown, and if not relieved the condition will very likely terminate in death, the immediate cause of the fatal result being, in most cases, extension of the decomposition to the pelvis of the kidney and suppura- tive nephritis. Such a condition necessarily offers an insuperable obstacle to any further crushing operation, supposing any stone to be still present, and the only course that gives a chance of life is to perform median cystotomy, by which not only are the fragments removed but the bladder is efficiently drained of its decomposing contents. The prevention of this complication is best accomphshed by the use of antiseptics. The instruments should be oiled with carbohzed oil and washed in carbolic lotion before being used, and the water used to wash out the bladder should contain some anti- septic. Decomposition may, however, reach the bladder along the partially stagnant layer of mucus which forms in the urethra as the result of catarrhal inflammation of the mucous membrane. It is not sufficient therefore merely to carbolize the instruments and to use antiseptic solutions in the evacua- tor ; the end of the penis should be constantly covered with a strip of lint soaked in glycerine and carbolic acid. In spite of all precautions, however, decomposition sometimes takes place, and then the bladder must be washed out twice a day with an antiseptic solution. The mechanical irritation caused by so doing is of little importance when compared with the dangers of a septic accumulation in the bladder. Atony of the Bladder is one of the most dangerous conditions that can occur in lithotrity. This happens usually in old people, in whom the urinary organs may appear to be in a peculiarly favourable condition before the opera- tion, the patient being able to hold his urine for six or eight hours, and to bear the injection of ten or twelve ounces of fluid. The danger of the con- dition is, that the bladder does not possess sufficient contractile power to expel 4 A 2