iJXCISION OF TONGUE: KOCHEKS METHOD. 695 jaw is divided as far back as the outer angles of the external incision. The submaxillaiy glands are pushed aside, and the tip of |he tongue being seized with a strong hook or vulsellum-forceps, the organ is drawn out to its full extent on to the anterior part of the neck, between the jaw and the hyoid bone, when the whole of it may be removed close to its attachments to the latter bone by means of the scissors or the ccraseur. If the ecraseur be used, it will occasionally be found that the anterior pillar of the fauces is somewhat in the way of the appKcation of the instrument. Should this be so, it may be snipped across before the wire is applied. By means of this operation, which I have several times performed, the whole of the tongue may be shaved off clean from the base of the epiglottis and hyoid bone. After the removal of the tongue the haemorrhage will usually be found to be trifling ; but should one or other of the lingual arteries bleed, it may readily be seized and twisted. The incision in the skin must then be stitched up, a di'ainage-tube being inserted at the lower end of the vertical incision. Kocher of Berne, believing that the best hope of giving prolonged reUef or possibly permanently curing the patient, lies in a complete removal in every case of the lymphatic glands below the jaw simultaneously with the diseased part of the tongue, has introduced a method of operating which in his hands has been attended with a considerable degree of success. He makes a free external incision, commencing a little below the lobule of the ear and running down- wards along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid to the level of the great cornu of the hyoid bone ; from this an incision is carried forwards nearly to the body of the hyoid bone, and then upwards along the line of the anterior belly of the digastric to the jaw. The flap thus marked out is turned upwards over the face. The lingual artery is then tied before it passes beneath the hyo-glossus. By a process of careful dissection, all the lymphatic glands are removed from the region exposed by the wound. In so doing the carotid sheath will be exposed, as one gland always lies upon it close to the sterno- mastoid. The facial artery and vein will be divided, and must be secured by ligature. It is necessary to remove the submaxillary and sublingual glands, which otherwise are much in the way. Some lymphatic glands, touching the inner surface of the jaw, between it and the sublingual gland, must be sought for and removed. The mylo-hyoid muscle and the mucous membrane of the mouth are now fully exposed, and must be carefully divided when the side of the tongue to its very root comes into view. If only one side is affected, the tongue may now be split down the middle line from the mouth, and the base cut through from the external wound. If the Avhole tongue requires removal the other lingual must be tied through a separate incision. Kocher recom- mends a preliminary tracheotomy and plugging the pharynx during the operation. He also advises that the wound in the neck should be left open. In tlie numerous cases in which the operation has been performed at University College Hospital tracheotomy has not generally been found necessary, and the external wound has been sutured, with or without the introduction of a drainage-tube. In 14 cases operated on by Kocher only one patient died, from secondary haemorrhage from the tracheotomy wound. In 8 recurrence of the disease took place, 1 died a year after of pneumonia, and 4 remained well at 14 months, 5, 5 and %\ years after the operation. The operation requires skill and patience in its performance ; but the danger does not seem to be great, and the results are such as to encourage its further use in suitable cases.