SPECIAL ANEURIHMS. the affected vocal cord is immovable and laryngoscopic examination will eliow that It assumes the - cadaveric position "-that is, midway between the posi- tions of phonation and full inspiration. The voice is generally weak and hoarse, but there is no dyspna3a. ^ J If both the recurrent laryngeal nerves are paralysed, both the vocal cords assume the position above described. Those acts, such as phonation and coughing, which require approximation of the cords, are therefore impossible Dyspnoea may still be altogether absent. In many cases of pressure upon the recurrent laryngeal nerve all the muscles supplied by It do not suffer equally. Under these circumstances it is the cnco-arytenoidms posticus muscle that is chiefly affected, and as this is the principal abductor of the vocal cord the latter is drawn inwai-ds i)y the unopposed adductors into a position of phonation. In adults this unilateral abductor paralysis is often unattended with any alteration in the voice or with difficulty of breathing, and thus as Semon, writing in Heath's Dictionary of Practical Surgery, remarks, " the important laryngeal lesion present, which may be of the greatest importance for the correct diagnosis of the whole case, will entirely escape notice, unless a rule be made to examine the larynx in all cases in which lesions of the laryngeal nerves could occur, whether there be symptoms pointing to the larynx or not." If the partial paralysis be bilateral —the abductor on each side being chiefly or solely affected—both cords are drawn inwards so as nearly to meet in the middle. Under these circumstances the voice may still be unchanged, but there will be inspiratory stridor and a varying degree of dyspnoea. As a rule the paralysis of the larynx, resulting from the pressure of an aortic aneurism upon the left pneumogastric, is unilateral. This is invariably so in the case of the recurrent laryngeal branch, but George Johnson and others have shown that pressure upon one pneumogastric trunk may occasionally lead to paralysis of both sides of the larynx, either partial or complete. j The laryngeal symptoms are sometimes so much more prominent than any of the other signs of intrathoracic aneurism, and so closely resemble chronic or even acute laryngitis, with impending asphyxia, that there are not a few cases on record in which Surgeons have performed tracheotomy, on the supposition that they had to do with cases of pure and uncomplicated laryngeal disease ; and in other instances this operation has been performed with a view of pro- longing life, even when the dependence of the laryngeal spasm on aneurism of the aorta has been recognized. e. Dyspnoea may be dependent on compression of the pulmonary vein by the aneurismal tumour. In cases of this kind there would be considerable lividity of surface, and signs of pulmonary congestion. The dyspnoea of intrathoracic aneurism will often be sufficiently intense to occasion death. It may be mistaken for ordinary asthma ; but the diagnosis can usually be made, by observing that in aneurism the paroxysms of dyspnoea often come on in the day as well as at night, and are greatly increased by change of position, as by placing the patient either upright or recumbent, the tumour thus shifting its point of pressure. It is, as Bellingham has pointed out, not influenced by atmospheric changes, and is generally associated with laryngeal stridor or spasm. When such symptoms as these are associated with pain and dysphagia, they point very strongly, even in absence of all ausculta- tory signs, to the presence of an aneurismal tumour.