SYMPTOMS OF RODENT ULCER. II preference superficially, not in depth; hence ifc seldom gives rise to hasmor- rhage, even in the more advanced stages. The neighbouring lymphatic glands do not become implicated, and secondary visceral growths are never met with. Symptoms.—In whatever situation it begins, its first appearance is in the shape of a tubercle or hard pimple of a brownish-red colour. This ulcerates slowly; and then the disease extends. Moore, to whom we are indebted for a most lucid account of the affection, lays especial stress on its commencement in a hard wart, and its continued extension by a hard margin. This ulcerated tubercle becomes covered by a scab ; but as the process of destructive ulcera- tion progresses, the sore becomes too large to be covered in this way, and an ulcer is left. This ulcer, which constitutes the disease, and is the Noli-me- tangere'''' of the older authors, presents the following characters. It is always Fig. 417.—Rodent Ulcer of back of hand. Fig. 41S.—Rodent Ulcer: Perforation of Amputation. Skull and exposure of Dura Mater. single, and spreads solely by continuity of tissue. It is depressed shghtly below the surface, is of a pale pink colour, with a furrowed rather than a granulating surface, resembling by its furrowed smoothness an irregular layer of pink wax, and is usually painless, except where cicatrizing. Its edges are slightly raised, the degree varying in different cases and depending on the closeness with which the destruction of the new growth follows its development. In some cases the two follow each other so closely that the ulcer appears to be a simple loss of tissue, scarcely any thickening of the edge being recognizable. Imperfect attempts at cicatriza- tion form a peculiar feature of the ulcer. At one part of its margin it ceases to spread, and a thin blue line of epithelium begins to extend over the raw surface. This, however, never advances far; before long the spreading recommences at the edge of the apparently unaltered skin, and the thin layer of epithelium speedily disappears. This attempted cicatrization is never accompanied by any contraction of the sore. This want of contraction is a very characteristic feature of the disease. If half an eyelid is destroyed the