172 SPECIAL ANEUIiI:SMS. usua ly produced by attempts to compress the carotid. The compression was apphed for seventeen days during seven or eight hours each day ; and at the end of the time the man was cured. In addition to this, Holmes has col- lected four su^;ces8fu] cases by Sheppard, Kerr, Humphry, and Gay, and two unsuccesslul ones by He Castro and J)elore. The pressure should, if possible, be applied above the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, so as to avoid compressing the vertebral artery at the same time. Ligature.—Since Astley Cooper first ligatured the carotid, in 1805, the means on which the Surgeon almost always relies for the cure of aneurism of this vessel is deligation of the artery at a distance from the sac. When the aneurism is so situated that a sufficient extent of liealthy vessel exists between the sternum and the base of the tumour to admit of the application of a ligature, the Hunterian operation may be practised. If, however, the root or lower portion of the artery be so involved that there is no room to apply a proximal ligature, the distal operation may be performed. Ligature of the Common Carotid.—The patient must be placed upon his back with the shoulders supported by a pillow, and the head allowed to fall backwards so as to put the sterno-mastoid slightly on the stretch. In the later stages of the operation, the head must be brought a little more forward to allow the muscle to be drawn outwards. If brought too much forward the artery becomes relaxed, aiid the difficulty in passing the needle is increased. When the Surgeon can choose the spot at which to ligature the artery, he usually selects the part of the vessel which bisects the angle formed by the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid with the omo-hyoid muscle at the level of the cricoid cartilage. The course of the artery is marked by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular articulation to a point midway between the mastoid ])rocess and the angle of the jaw. The practical guiding line during the operation is the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, which forms the first rallying point. The artery is reached by making an incision about three inches in length in this line, the middle of the wound being opposite the cricoid cartilage. After dividing the skin, superficial fascia, and platysma, with the branches of the superficial cervical nerve, and the deep cervical fascia, the fibres of the sterno-mastoid come into view ; the inner border is easily found, and the muscle turned outwards. The second rallying point is the upper border of the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid. To bring this into view, the layer of cervical fascia forming the posterior part of the sheath of the sterno-mastoid must be dissected through, care being taken not to wound the descendens noni nerve which usually lies immediately beneath it. •• When the muscle is found, its upper border is pushed downwards with the handle of the scalpel, and held out of the way with a blunt hook, and the sheath of the vessels then comes into view. Crossing the sheath the middle thyroid vein may now be met with, and may, if necessary, be divided between two ligatures. The Surgeon now presses his finger backwards towards the bodies and trans- verse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and the artery will be felt rolling under the finger over the bone, and its exact position is thus easily ascertained. The vessel is enclosed in a sheath of cervical fascia common to it, the internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve. This sheath is divided into three compartments, and it is important to open the most internal of these, in which the artery lies, if possible without disturbing the others. To do this, the