TUMOURS WITHIN THE SPINAL CANAL. cord, produced almost complete paralysis and impairment of sensation in the lower limbs, with paresis of the bladder. Complete recovery followed the removal of the growth. Caselli successfully removed an osteoma projecting into the spinal canal from the posterior arch of the fifth dorsal vertebra. The symptoms, which consisted of girdle-pains, paresis of the lower limbs, sensory disturbances, and weakness of the bladder and rectum, underwent great improvement after the operation. Tumours within the Spinal Canal.—Tumours within the spinal canal may arise inside or outside the dura mater. Outside the dura mater hpomata are most common, though these are rare. Within the dura mater syphilitic gummata, sarcomata, myxomata, and psammomata are occasionally met with, and fatty tumours have been found in a few cases. The symptoms produced by these growths are those of slow compression of the cord, for which I must refer the reader to works on medicine. If unrelieved by treatment they inevitably cause death, and syphilitic gummata alone are influenced by drugs. "Writing in 1886, Gowers suggested that Surgery might ultimately be able to cope with meningeal tumours, those actuiilly implicating the cord being of course beyond the reach of operative interference. In 1887 a middle aged man came under his care with symptoms of a tumour compressing the cord in the upper dorsal region, causing almost complete paraplegia and anaesthesia below the level of the fifth dorsal nerve. On June 9th, 1887, Yictor Horsley undertook its removal. The spines and laminae of the third, fourth, and fifth dorsal vertebrge were cut away, the dura mater opened, and a myxoma removed, which was pressing on the right side of the cord. On January 28th, 1888, the patient was exhibited at the Medico-Chirurgical Society, having completely recovered from all his symptoms except a little stilfness in the legs. The wound was soundly healed, and no artificial support was required. Since this time several cases have been recorded in which an operation has been undertaken for the removal of tumours within the spinal canal. In Horsley's second case the patient died of shock. The most successful is one by Rehn. In this case a lymphangioma compressing the cauda equina had produced paresis of the lower limbs, bladder, and rectum, with severe pains and loss of knee jerks. The tumour was removed, and the patient recovered power, so that he was able to return to his work. White of New York operated on a case in which paraplegia was thought to be due to an intra- spinal tumour; no tumour was found, but recovery followed the removal of some dense tissue around the dura mater and the separation of adhesions within it. Abbe removed a sarcoma from outside the dura mater, but the patient died on the ninth day. The results thus far obtained certainly justify an exploratory operation •when the diagnosis of intraspinal tumour is warranted by the symptoms. Of a series of eight cases, in two the removal of the tumour was followed by cure, in two by death, and in one by recovery without relief ; in one case of tumour projecting into the front of the canal, no attempt was made to remove it, but the patient's pain was relieved ; of two cases in which no actual tumour was found, one recovered, and the other died.