674 PLASTIC SUJWERY OF THE PALATE. wards, the sutures can be inserted more accurately and evenly tlian when on one side it is passed from behind. The stitches should be about one-sixth of an inch apart, and must all be introduced before any are tightened. The next step in the operation will depend upon the amount of tension that ig present when the edges are drawn together by pulling gently on the middle stitch. If the edges come readily together without any strain, all the stitches may be at once tightened by tying them if the wire be sufficiently pliant, or by twisting them with a pair of torsion forceps, or a special wire twister con- structed for this purpose. In the majority of cases, however, it will U necessary to make a lateral incision on each side to relieve tension. This is done by puncturing the palate with a fine sharp-pointed knife to the inner side of the hamular process, avoiding the situation of the posterior palatine artery. Pollock recommends that by raising the handle of the knife while the palate is put on the stretch, the fibres of the levator palati be divided without greatly increasing the puncture in the anterior surface of the palate. It will be found better, however, as a rule, to follow the plan employed by Sedillot (Figs. 735, 736, 737), and after puncturing the palate with a sharp Fig. 735. Fig. 730. Fig. 737. Sedillot's Operation for Staphylorrliajjliy. knife, to introduce a narrow blunt-pointed knife, and to make a sht of sufficient length completely to remove all tension. An incision of equal length must be made in the opposite half of the palate, and the sutures may then be tightened. The lateral incisions always heal without difficulty, even if they gape widely at the time of the operation. If necessary, tension may be further relieved by snipping the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces, after making them prominent by pulHng on the palate. Fergusson recom- mended the division of the muscles from behind without perforating the palate. This is more difficult of performance, and gives less perfect relief of tension ; in fact it was intended rather to give rest by paralysing the muscles than to relieve the strain on the stitches. He considered the levator palati and the palato-pharyngeus to be the two muscles exerting the most disturbing influence on the wound. The former he divided by passing a lancet-ended knife bent nearly at a right angle with its handle, through the fissure behind the velum, midway between its attachment to the hard palate and the free margin, and about halfway between the velum and the end of the Eustachian tube, and cutting deeply in that situation. The posterior pillar of the fauces was divided simply by making it tense by pulling on the soft palate and then snipping it