NEURALGIA: CAUSES, DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT. 25 sionally the seat of severe suffering of this kind. Extreme cutaneous sen- sibility is a marked feature in some cases : the patient wincing and suffering severely whenever the skin is pinched or touched, however lightly. Causes.—The causes of this painful affection are very various : they may be constitutional or local. It seldom occurs in strong and healthy individuals, but is almost invariably associated with want of power, unless it be occasioned by some local mechanical cause. Depressing influences of all kinds are especi- ally apt to produce ifc : thus, debilitating diseases, mental depression, and particularly exposure to malaria, are common occasioning causes ; those forms of the disease that arise from malarial influences, or from exposure to simple cold and wet, usually assume a very intermitting or periodical character, and are commonly seated in the nerves of the head. The hysterical temperament very frequently disposes to the spinal and articular forms of neuralgia. There is no constitutional condition with which neuralgia is more frequently associated than with ansemia ; hence its frequency in females. As Romberg somewhat poetically says, " Neuralgia is the prayer of the nerve for healthy blood." Various sources of peripheral irritation, as loaded bowels, the irrita- tion of worms, carious teeth, uterine disease, and calculus, may be recognized as producing some of the more obscure varieties of the disease. Exposure to cold is a common cause. Neuralgia may arise also from any compression exercised upon the trunk of a nerve ; and in this way, indeed, some of the more intractable forms of the affection have their origin. Thus, thickening of the fibrous sheath, the pressure of a tumour of any kind, or of a piece of dead bone, may give rise to the most intense pain in the part supplied by the irritated nerve ; and it is not improbable that, in many of the cases of neuralgia in the branches of the fifth nerve, pain may be owing to periosteal inflammation, or to some other disease of the osseous canals through which the divisions of the nerve pass. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of neuralgia, though usually made without any difficulty, is in some cases a little embarrassing, as the pain may occa- sionally simulate that of organic disease or inflammation of the part. From m-gani^^ disease of the part that is the seat of suffering, such as the hip, the knee, the testis, or the breast, this disease may usually be distinguished by the co-existence of heightened cutaneous sensibility, the existence of the hysterical temperament, and the absence of the other signs that would accompany lesion of structure in the part affected. From inflammation the diagnosis is usually sufficiently easy, by attending to the intermittent character of the neuralgic pain, to its occurrence in hysterical subjects, and to the absence of the constitutional symptoms of inflammation. But occasionally when local inflammatory irritation is conjoined with the neuralgia, the diagnosis is difficult. Here the presence of cutaneous hypereesthesia and the relief of the pain by firm pressure will indicate neuralgia ; whereas, in in- flammation, there is no tenderness of surface, but the suffering is aggravated by deep pressure. Treatment.—The treatment of neuralgia must have reference to its cause and will be successful or not according as this can be more or less i:eadilv removed. So long as the conditions that primarily occasion the disease per- sist, the pain IS likely to continue : and if these conditions be irremovable the disease may be looked upon as necessarily incurable, though the suffering may be aUeviated by appropriate means. When it arises from any central