BRONCHOCELE. 613 or months, but occasionally it seems to have an important relation to the subsequent development of wry-neck (see p. 529). Many views have been expressed concerning the nature of the ' congenital tumour of the sterno-mastoid," some regarding it as a gummatous infiltration due to congenital syphilis, others as inflammatory, and others again as a con- genital hypertrophy. In 1838, Stromeyer, first traced the connexion between the lesion and difficult delivery, and it is now generally agreed that the swelling is the result of rupture of the muscle fibres with extravasation of blood within the sheath. This has indeed been demonstrated microscopically by Herbert Spencer. The damage to the muscle can generally be traced to traction on the head in breech presentations, or to the use of the forceps in vertex presentations. In nearly 300 autopsies made by Spencer on children which were still-born or died soon after birth haemorrhage into the sterno- mastoid was found fifteen times. Ten of tbese were cases of breech or footling presentation, and in two others forceps had been used. In a case recorded by F. Taylor, the swelling was found to be due to a new growth of fibrous tissue between the bundles of muscular fibres ; this had probably developed in the seat of the damage to the muscle. The child was syphilitic, and the case was also one of breech presentation at birth. No Treatment is required, unless any signs of wry-neck manliest themselves. Diffuse Cellulitis "of the Neck. Ludwig's Angina has been described in Vol. I. at p. 956. DISEASES OF THE THYROID GLAND. The thyroid gland is subject to various simple chronic enlargements, which commonly go by the name of Bronchocele or GoUre. The gland is composed of closed vesicles, lined by a single layer of cubical epithelium, containing a clear albuminous fluid. The vesicles are held together by areolar tissue, supporting numerous vessels of considerable size. Virchow has shown that all forms of bronchocele commence by a true hypertrophy of the gland- substance, but as the enlargement progresses, one or other of the constituent elements of the gland may increase out of proportion to the others. If ail the constituents continue to increase equally, the Simple Bronchocele results ; if the contents of the vesicles accumulate, unduly distending the cavities, the disease assumes the form known as Cystic Bronchocele; whilst if there is a great increase of the fibrous tissue, the condition is known as Fibrous Bronchocele. Pulsating Bronchocele is usually said to arise from great dilatation of the blood-vessels of the gland ; it is, however, doubtful whether this actually occurs or whether the pulsation of the goitre is not due merely to the excessive pupa- tion of the vessels of the neck generally. Secondary changes also may modify the structure of the tumour. Of these the most common is a substitution of a gelatinous colloid material for the albuminous fluid normally found in tlie vesicles of the gland. Calcification also is common both in the walls of the cysts in cystic bronchocele, and in the masses of fibrous tissue in the fibrous goitre. The Causes of bronchocele have been much discussed. The most generally received belief is, that the disease is directly occasioned by some impurity in, or peculiarity of, the water that the patients drink ; and it has been supposed that water coming through chalk or limestone is particularly apt to occasion bronchocele in this country, and that water resulting from