HAEMOPHILIA. 8i vascular structure intermixed, aud some small cysts. The oedema gradually subsided ; and when the patient left England, about three months after the operation, the limb had nearly regained its normal size. HJE3 IVtORKHAGIC DIATHESIS, OR HiEMOPHILIA. In connexion with diseases of the blood-vessels it may be stated that in some constitutional conditions it is found, though fortunately very rarely, that there is a great tendency to very troublesome, indeed almost uncontrollable, bleeding from slight wounds. An abnormal tendency to bleed is sometimes observed in persons who are "out of condition," and whose tissues are soft and flaccid. They bleed freely from slight wounds, and bruise extensively from trivial blows. In these cases the bleeding appears to be maintained by the want of tone preventing the proper contraction of the divided or torn vessels; and the tendency to hEemorrhage will vary at different times in the same person according as the state o his health improves or deteriorates. In other cases abnormal bleeding may be due to diminution in the normal coagulability of the blood. This state is sometimes met wdth in scurvy, chronic jaundice, and albuminuria. The disease known as Haemophilia or Haeiuorrhagic Diathesis is quite independent of such conditions as these. It is a peculiar constitutional state always congenital, and most frequently hereditary, espe- cially in the male line. In some families the males only have been aflfected, and the diathesis has been transmitted in the second or third generation through females ; who, being themselves unaffected by it^ have had male children who were the subjects of the disease. The diathesis occurs in persons without any other apparent derangement of health, or morbid condition, innate or acquired, to account for it. In such cases the family peculiarity is usually recognized, and well known to those hable to it. The only constant sign of the diathesis is the free and often almost uncon- trollable bleeding that takes place from trivial wounds ; the hemorrhage resulting from the extraction of a tooth, the opening of an abscess, lancing the gums, or some equally slight unimportant surgical procedure, having sometimes proved fatal. The blood does not flow in a jet, but continues to trickle in an oozing stream, apparently from the capillaries rather than from the larger vessels of the part. In these cases also there is a great tendency to extensive ecchymosis from very slight contusions. _ In these families of bleeders, it is scarcely necessary to say that it is impera- tive to be careful to make no surgical wounds, even of the most trivial character, if they can possibly be avoided. Above all, the extraction of teeth must be avoided. It is after this slight operation that the most uncontrollable and fatal hemorrhages have occurred. The hemorrhages, though usually traumatic, may be spontaneous ; they then usually proceed from the nose, the bowel, the kidney, or the subcutaneous connective tissue. In women thev assume the character of profuse and uncontrollable menorrhagia. The hemor- rhages are accompanied by the symptoms described at p.''409, Vol. I., as characterizing excessive loss of blood ; and after their cessation the patient remains anemic usually for many weeks or months. The quantity of blood lost is often enormous, amounting in some cases to several pounds in the twenty-four hours. The tendency to bleeding is chiefly from recent wounds or healthy mucous G