DISEASES OF JOINTS. 34° with which they are infiltrated arc partly absorbed, and partly developed into dense fibrous tissue. This process is accompanied irequently by some con- traction, so that the natural mobility of the joint is more or less interfered with. Should the position of the joint during the attack have led to relaxa- tion of any ligament, as, for instance, of the ilio-femoral from flexion of the hip, the ligament becomes shortened as the joint recovers, so that the position assumed during the acute stage becomes a fixed one. The inflamed surfaces of the synovial membrane which have lost their endothelial covering and become covered with granulation tissue, adhere to each other wherever they are in contact, and thus the synovial pouches become obliterated. If the cartilages have been but very superficially ulcerated, they may again become smooth without the formation of adhesions between the opposed surfaces. If, however, the destruction has gone on to the extent of the formation of granulation tissue on the surface of the cartilages, the opposed granulating surfaces coalesce, the new tissue becomes developed into cicatricial fibrous tissue, and the joint is ]3ermanently stiffened. This condition is described as fibrous ankylosis. If the cartilage has been com- pletely destroyed, the opposed granulations on the surfaces of the bones coalesce and develop into bone, and thus osseous ankylosis results. In no circumstances does cartilage when once destroyed become regenerated. Treatment.—In acute arthritis, perfect rest of the articulation is of the first moment. Unless this be secured, no other treatment can be of any avail. The limb should be fixed by some efficient apparatus and slung in a cradle. For the hip or knee, Thomas's sphnts will be found most useful. But not only is absolute immobility of the joint imperatively required as the first means of cure, but slight extension of the limb is almost of equal importance, with the view of removing the pain and preventing the destructive dis- organization of the articulation and consequent ankylosis, which result partly from the pressure of one inflamed articular surface against the other by the tonic contraction of the muscles of the limb, and partly from the spasms which occur when the patient falls asleep. The pain, more especially that which results from spasmodic action of the muscles of the limb, is not relieved entirely by simple rest; but it is usually at once removed by means of a weio-ht extension attached to the lower part of the hmb. This is particularly the case in inflammations of the hip and knee joints. The weight should be proportioned to the age of the patient. Its use will often at once reheve pain, and enable the sufferer to obtain sleep. Fomentations and ordinary soothing applications, such as a paint composed of equal parts of extract of belladonna and fflyceriiie, may be combined with these means. In the acute stage of the disease, small doses of opium may be useful, and at the same time the patient must be confined to liquid food without stimulants. Leeches applied freely to the joint frequently reheve the pain and diminish the acuteness of the '^Should'these means be successful in arresting the progress of the disease before suppuration takes place, the inflammation often continues m a s^ihac^e form and some modification must then be made m the treatnient. In this PonHitinn nerfect rest is equally imperative as in the acute stage, and may rsecldin t s me way.' At the^ame time the joint maybe repeatedly b ister d but in many instances most benefit will be derived from the of the actual cautery. This agent, when properly applied, yields