914 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. Snrj:>'eon forcibly and repeatedly kneads the abdomen, pressing its contents vigorously upwards, downwards, and from side to side. The patient is then held up in the prone position by four men, and sliaken backwards and forwards. He is next held feet uppermost, and shaken upwards and downwards, and copious eneraata are given in the inverted position. Hutchinson recommends that the whole proceeding be carried out in an energetic manner for not less than half or three-quarters of an hour. In a case at University College Hos- pital, of extremely acute obstruction with violent stercoraceous vomiting, treatment of this kind was immediately successful ; as the patient was inverted there was a loud gurgle, and a feeling like the reduction of a large hernia was perceived by the hand on the abdomen. I have also seen a case of obturator hernia—unrecognised during life—in which at the jiJos/-mw/m examination it seemed probable that inversion and shaking would have effected reduction and so saved the patient. Hutchinson states that during twenty years' experience at the London Hospital he only opened the abdomen once for intestinal obstruction, and that for intussusception, and he could not remember a case in which the post-mortem made him regret not having operated. In the light of such facts the advisability of adopting this treatment in suitable cases, viz., in which the symptoms point strongly to strangulation by a band or internal hernia, and when there is no abdominal distension and no signs of peritonitis, must be considered. Seeing, however, how misleading the symptoms often are in these difficult cases, the majority of Surgeons will not regard inversion and abdominal taxis with sufficient favour to feel justified in delaying operation in order that they may adopt them. Puncture of the Intestines with a trochar or the aspirator has been adopted in cases of great distension. This treatment is not free from risk, and has so rarely given'more than temporary relief that it should not be adopted. To sum up, therefore : As soon as the Surgeon has made-up his mind that the case before him is one of acute intestinal obstruction due to some mechani- cal cause, the sooner he performs laparotomy the greater may be his hope of saving the patient. . . It will be convenient in the first place to describe the operation as it is performed as an exploratory measure in a doubtful case, and subsequently to consider the appropriate treatment for the different conditions which may be met with. -r^ , .1 • 1.' a\ Operations for Intestinal Obstruction.—Tjnless the patient s condi- tion is so grave as to forbid a necessarily severe operation, laparotomy should be performed. All the rules already laid down for abdominal operations in aeneral must be attended to (p. 819). After the anaesthetic has been ad- ministered, the bladder should be emptied, and if there has been stercoraceous vomiting, it may be advisable to pass a tube into the stomach and wash iD out with hot water. The incision should be made in the middle hne be ow the umbilicus, and should be long enough readily to admit three fingers^ When the peritoneum is reached, all bleeding must be carefully arrested and the peritoneum divided in the whole length of the incision. In openu g • e peritoneum, it is very easy to wound the distended intestine b^nea h ; this 18 best avoided by Tait's suggestion of holding forward the membrane w tht^^^ pairs of forceps and dividing the fold between them. The Surgeon now proceeds to search for the cause of the obstruction. „ the This must, if possible, be done without allowing a free protiusion ot