1256 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. proliferation of the epithelium ; both the intertubular growth and the proliferated epithelium afterwards undergoing fatty degeneration, and forminjr cheesy masses. ^ Prognosis.—The prognosis of tuberculous disease of the testis is extremely bad. ireatment is of little if any avail, and the patient in the great majoritv of cases dies sooner or later of disease of the lungs, from general acute tuber- culosis or from extension of the disease to the bladder, prostate, and even to the kidneys. In some cases, however, after the abscesses have burst, the cavities may heal, and the testicle remain withered, but free from active disease. Treatment.—The more I see of this disease the more convinced I am that the sooner the diseased organ is removed the better will be the patient's chance of prolongation of life. The danger of infection of the system by acute tuberculosis from a tuberculous testis is so great, that when once the diagnosis has been made castration should not be delayed. In most cases however the operation is at best calculated to give the patient only temporary relief, as the disease usually extends along the vas deferens beyond the reach of the knife, and will continue to progress in the vesiculse seminales and prostate, unless the patient succumb early to tuberculous disease of the lungs or brain. Before undertaking it, the urine must be examined for pus, and the state of the prostate and vesiculse seminales ascertained from the rectum, as the operation would, of course, be useless if the aflfection of the testicle were merely a part of tuberculosis of the whole genito-urinary tract. Should the patient decline to submit to the operation, or his health be so bad that its performance is not advisable, the treatment must be conducted on general principles : alteratives, tonics, especially the iodide of iron, with cod-liver oil, and general hygienic means calculated to improve the health, must be steadily persevered with. Local applications are of little avail. The abscesses must be opened when they form. The cavity should be thoroughly scraped out with a sharp spoon and dressed with iodoform. Under this treatment it sometimes heals rapidly, but the cure is rarely permanent. If fungus form, it is of little use to try to treat it by the methods before described ; if the body of the testis be deeply infiltrated with tubercle, no good could result. Syphilitic Disease of the Testicle.—The testicle may be affected in the secondary and tertiary stages of the acquired disease, and also as the result of inherited syphilis in infants. In the secondary stage of acquired syphilis one or both epididymises are occasionally affected. In the later stages of the acquired disease, and also in the inherited form, the body of the testicle is primarily affected, and, as in other viscera, the simple inflammatory and the gummatous varieties are met with. The Simple Inflammatory Form, which has been accurately described by Virchow, consists essentially of a chronic inflammatory overgrowth of the connective tissue between the tubuli seminiferi. The disease may uniformly affect the whole gland or be limited to localized patches. If the whole gland be affected, the organ slowly enlarges to perhaps more than double its natural size. The enlargement will be found to affect the body of the gland, the epididymis undergoing but httle if any change ; in fact, it may be so far con- cealed by the thickening round it as to be scarcely recognizable. The cord and vas deferens are unaffected. The body of the gland feels hard, almost cartilaginous, and the surface is smooth or perhaps slightly irregular. There is no pain, except a dragging sensation in the groin due to the increased