I02I NEPHRECTOMY. patient made a good recovery. Seven years after the operation she was in ,,erfect health. Since that time the operation has become an estabhshed one 111 surffery, and has frequently been performed. , , , , . The conditions in which nephrectomy may be undertaken have already been described. They may briefly be enumerated as follows :— 1 For calculous disease : xVs a primary measure, if the stone be very large or multiple, and the kidney disorganized ; if there be destructive suppuration ; ,n- very rarely, if severe hijemorrhage during the operation prove uncontrollable in'any other way; as a secondary operation for the cure of a fistula after nephrotomy. 2. For tuberculous disease : In rare instances in which the kidney is extensively disorganized, or for the cure of a fistula after nephrotomy; if the patient's general condition be favourable, and there be reason to believe that the opposite kidney is healthy. 3. For pyonephrosis and hydronephrosis : ()ccasionally as a primary operation, but more often subsequently to nephrotomy. 4. For movable kidney : In rare instances in which nephrorrhaphy has failed, and the symptoms are very severe. 5. For tumours of the kidney : Under the conditions already considered. 6. For injuries of the kidney or ureter : In cases of prolapse of kidney through a wound of the loin, for rupture of kidney attended with hemorrhage dangerous to life or followed by suppuration, or in cases of penetrating wound causing uncontrollable hemorrhage or followed by fistula ; in cases of rupture of the ureter in which nephrotomy is followed by fistula, and for fistulous communications between the ureter and the uterus or vagina, due to injury during labour and during operations. In all cases, before undertaking nephrectomy, the condition of the other kidney must, if possible, be ascertained. In one recorded case the kidney excised was the only one the patient possessed, and more than once in spite of all precautions the only working kidney has been removed. In one case in University College Hospital nephrotomy was performed and some pus let out by a free incision. The wound healed and the patient was well for three months. The symptoms then returning, nephrectomy was performed, and the patient died on the sixth day of complete suppression of urine. The other kidney was found to be completely destroyed by old tuberculous disease. This shows that we must not assume that the other kidney is sound because the patient has passed safely through nephrotomy. The quantity of urine and the amount of urea must be examined for several days. A marked deficiency in the quantity of urine excreted, or in the solids eliminated by the kidneys, is a grave sign. The sound kidney must be examined by manipulation for enlargement or tenderness. Severe vomiting should always lead to a grave suspicion of double disease. Various methods have been suggested for observing the character of the urine entering the bladder from each ureter. The cystoscope can hardly prove of much service in this connexion, as it merely shows the appearance and not the quality of the urine (p. 1110). Catheterization of the ureters in the female was first suggested by ^imon as a means of obtaining separately the secretion of the two kidneys. It has been successfully employed, but is difficult and uncertain. In two cases of tuberculous disease of the kidney Newman catheterized the ureters ; in one the urine from the opposite kidney was prac- tically normal and nephrectomy was successfully performed ; in the other both samples of urine contained pus and tubercle bacilli, and the proposed operation was abandoned. Various methods of compressing one ureter and collecting