CARIES OF SPINE: SAYRE'S JACKET. 493 .8 left for expansion of the abdomen during meals. This precaution is a : very important detail. Its omission may be attended with very inconvenient """^SteTorParis bandages are then carefully applied round the body from immediately above the trochanters to the axillae. Strips of thm perforated tin are next placed by the sides of the spine, and a second layer of plaster bandages passed round the whole (Fig. 610). The straps being now removed the patient is laid upon a mattress, great care being taken to keep the back extended while he is being moved lest the soft case be broken. As soon as he is upon his back the case must be carefully moulded to the crests of the ilia by firm pressure with the hands. If there is much projection of the spines a pad of soft lint or cotton wool must be placed on each side of the prominence to prevent injurious pressure. Sayre strongly insists on the importance of attention to details. The bandages must be of " crinoline muslin," which i will hold sufficient plaster in its meshes ; the finest " Artist's plaster " must be used ; the woollen jersey must be elastic, and fit accurately, and the case must be well moulded to the body by rubbing with the hands. When the case is dry a semilunar piece may be cut out under each arm and over each trochanter if necessary. The essential points to be attained by this treatment are : 1st, To extend the diseased spine to an extent sufficient to prevent friction of the carious surfaces against each other, not attempting, of course, to correct the angular deformity completely ; 2nd. To maintain the spine in the extended position by a light and firm casing accurately moulded to the pelvis below so as to obtain a fixed point and closely embracing the thorax above, so that the weight of the head and shoulders may not be borne directly by the diseased bodies of the vertebrge. A well-made plaster jacket may be worn from two to six months without being changed. Since the introduction of this treatment by Sayre various modifications have been suggested. In young children the tripod and puUies are un- necessary, as the jacket may be applied whilst the child is held by its mother or an assistant in an upright position with its arms over its head. In acute cases it is wiser to avoid the upright position altogether. This may be done by cutting a number of strips of plaster bandage one and a quarter times the circumference of the trunk. These may be wetted with equal parts of mucilage (B.P.) and water, which will delay the setting. A sufficient number of these are then arranged on a waterproof sheet overlapping each other, as in the ordinary many-tailed bandage. The patient, having the woollen jersey applied, is lifted and laid upon the bandages, which are folded over and rubbed smooth. There should be two layers of bandages, and the strips of perforated tin should be inserted between the first and second layers. This mode of application avoids any risk of dangerous extension of the diseased spine. After the application of a well-fitting plaster case there is usually great relief of pain, both in the spine and in the course of the nerves proceeding from the affected region. The respiration commonly becomes more easy. If the apparatus fits with sufficient accuracy the patient can bear the erect position and move about without pain. It is evident that the jacket as above described cannot be of any use unless the disease is situated below the level of the folds of the axilla, as above this point the bandage cannot go. When the disease is above this point a special contrivance, termed by Sayre the " jury mast," is required to support the head