DISEASE OF THE II IF-JO I NT. 426 swings the pelvis from these, and tlius in a great degree makes up for the loss ot the natural movements in the ilio-femoral articulation. In the most extreme cases the sliortened, wasted and deformed limb hangs powerless from the pelvis, suspended as it were by the ilio-femoral ligament, and sli'ditlv flexed and adducted. Of the 83 cases of cure from the Hip Hospital verified by the Committee, 69 are described as "good cures," 11 as "moderately good," and 3 as "cures with considerable lameness." In his Hunterian Lectures in 1889, Howard Marsh gave a full account of the condition of the limb in 70 cases which had been discharged from the Hospital, after varying periods of more than a year. Of 37 cases which had suppurated, a single sinus was present in 4 ; 2 walked perfectly, 22 well, 13 indifferently ; mobility was perfect in 1, free in 10, slight in 7, and absent in 18 ; in 3 cases there was no shortening, in 17 one inch, in 12 between one and two inches, and in 3 more than two inches, the average being one inch. Of 39 cases which liad not suppurated, 12 walked perfectly, 20 well, and 0 indifferently ; mobility was perfect in 9, free in 10, sh'ght in 10, and absent in 10 ; in 8 cases there was no shortening, in 19 less than one inch, in 11 more than one inch, the average being two-thirds of an inch. Treatment.—Nothing need be said here concerning the constitutional treat- ment of chronic hip disease, which must be carried out on the same principles which have already been considered in connexion with tuberculous diseases in general. No better proof can be given of the primary importance of favourable suiToundings, good food and attention to the general health, than the much more satisfactory course which the disease usually runs in children of the well- to-do classes than among the poor, from whom the majority of Hospital ca--* '; are derived. In the local treatment it is of especial importance to adopt early measures, for upon this largely depends the hope of cure with the least possible inter- ference with the utility of the limb. As in the case of other joints, perfect rest and extension are the most essential elements in the early treatment. As a general rule it may be stated that the first step taken in the treatment should be to apply a weight extension without delay. This often at once relieves the pain and sfcartings, and is by far the most efficient means of overcoming the flexion and lateral displacement which are almost invariably present. In apj)lying extension by means of a weight, the following plan should be adopted. The patient is placed upon a hard mattress. The angle of flexion and the degree of abduction or adduction are then ascertained by the methods already described (p. 417), as the extension must at first be made as accurately as possible in the line of the abnormal position the limb has assumed. A long broad strip of adhesive plaster is then applied of suflicient length to reach from a few inches tihove the knee on each side of the limb, and to leave a loop projecting beyond the sole of the foot for about one foot. In the loop is placed a piece of wood three inches in length to form a "spreader," and thus to prevent injurious pressure on the malleoli. A hole may be drilled through the spreader and the plaster covering it, and through this the cord bearing the weight is passed and secured by a knot. Narrower strips of plaster ai-e then applied diagonally round the limb to fix the first piece more securely; gretit care being taken that no strip pass circularly round the limb in such a way as to constrict it. A flannel bandage is next applied from the malleoli to the