DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 474 excisiou of the sac ; antiseptic drainage ; injection of tincture of iodine, and injection of Morton's iodo-glycerine solution. Puncture is not a very successful mode of treatment, being very commonly fatal by meningitis. Of 46 cases treated in this way, collected by the Com- mittee of the Clinical Society, 30 died. The case from which the accompany- ing drawing (Fig. GOl) is taken, was, however, cured by this treatment. It was that of a young girl. At birth the tumour was small, but it gradually increased in size, until when the child was thirteen it had attained the following dimensions :—Circumference at base 25 inches ; length over greatest convexity 19 inches ; breadth 14^ inches. The tumour occupied the lumbo-sacral, and stretched over both gluteal regions. It was tense and translucent; the skin reddened, very thin, and becoming darkly congested at the more prominent part, evidently in imminent danger of bursting. Health excellent; develop- ment good. I tapped the tumour and drew off lul ounces of cerebro-spinal fluid. When emptied, an aperture 1\ inch long, and three-quarters of an inch broad, could be felt at the lower lumbar and upper sacral regions to the left of the mesial line. The parts were well padded with cotton-wool, and supported by an elastic bandage. No ill etf'ects ibllowed the tapping. This was repeated nine times in eighteen weeks, 985 ounces in all of clear cerebro-spinal fluid being drawn off; the largest tapping amounted to 120 ounces, the smallest to 93. After each tapping methodical compression was employed. The ninth tapping was followed by signs of irritation in the lining membrane of the tumour, which became greatly thickened, evidently by inflammatory exudation. The tempera- ture rose to 103° F., and symptoms of spinal menin- gitis with a tendency to opisthotonos and convulsive movements came on, but passed off'. The sac gave way and a considerable quantity of pus was discharged, after which all the symptoms were relieved. The cavity closed by granulation, the skin covering it being thickened and corrugated; the patient soon completely recovered, and fifteen years after the operation was strong, healthy, and active. By the combination of pressure and occasional tapping by means of a trochar, Astley Cooper succeeded in curing one case. If it be thought desirable to apply pressure it may be done by means of a compress and bandage ; or, what is better, an air-pad, similar to those used for umbilical hernia, kept in place by an india-rubber band. Any punctures made in tapping must be carefully closed with collodion. Eemoval of the tumour by ligature or gradual strangulation is evidently justifiable only in cases of simple meningocele, and even in these it has not been attended with any great degree of success. Wilson in one case removed the tumour by the gradual pressure of a clamp applied to its base, and keeping the parts in close apposition by means of this instrument, so as to prevent the entrance of air, and the consequent occurrence of septic meningitis. In this case the tumour was as large as an orange, and not Fig. (501.—Large Spina Bifida, cured by tapping and pressure.