82 DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. membranes, and sometimes does not occur from diseased surfaces from whicli it presumably would be likely to happen. Thus a member of one of the thi-oe families of bleeders, who have frequently been inmates of University College Hospital, died lately of phthisis, with large cavities in the lungs. A few weeks previously he had nearly died of lia3morrhage after the extraction of a tooth, but he had never suffered from serious ha?mopty8i8. In another case the patient passed through an attack of typhoid fever without serious hasmorrhage. In another a large slough formed in the skin after the application of perchloride of iron, cold and pressure to arrest haemorrhage from a punctured wound of the leg, yet the slough separated, and the large granulating sore healed without any recurrence of the bleeding. Formerly it was supposed that females were exempt from haemophilia. But Wickham Legg, to whom we are indebted for an excellent monograph on this condition, states that this assumption can no longer be maintained, although women are far less disposed to the disease than men ; that they present feu- instances of the more typical forms of the disease, and that it is less fatal in them than in men. Most of the fatal cases in w^omen have occurred by hsemorrhage from the genital organs, and Legg quotes a case from Wachsmuth, " where the rupture of the hymen on the marriage-night caused the death of the bride from hsemorrhage." A frequent symptom accompanying this diathesis is a painful and sudden swelling of one or more joints, occurring either spontaneously, or as the result of some slight injury. The sweUing is the result of an effusion of blood and synovia into the synovial membrane.. It is usually accompanied by some slight febrile disturbance. It may last only a few days or may persist for months. The joint is often permanently weakened, and relapses are frequent during the cure. Pathology.—Little if anything is known with certainty about the nature of this pecuHar affection. It has been stated that in some cases the inner coat of the arteries has been found abnormally thin, and degenerative changes have been observed in the endothelium, but the observations are not sufficiently numerous or uniform for any theory to be founded upon them. From the influence exerted by cold in the arrest of the bleeding, it may reasonably be suspected that a want of proper contractility in the arteries has some influence in causing the bleeding. With regard to the condition of the blood, varying statements have been made ; it has been said to be watery, deficient in corpuscles, and uncoagulable. In the cases which have been admitted into University College Hospital, however, the blood in the earlier stages of the hemorrhage coagulated healthily and was of good colour, though after o-reat loss the tint ^became paler and the coagulum less firm. Accurate analyses of the blood from bleeders are still w^anting. It has been suggested as another explanation of the disease that its real cause is an excess of blood, but of this also there is no definite evidence. It would appear then that the only facts of importance that we at present possess to throw hght on the cause of Lmophilia are : that it is hereditary; that it is far more frequent ju males than in females ; and that it is congenital, and may occur m all races and in all countries. ^. ^ . „ Treatment.—In true hemophilia no remedies appear to exercise the slightest influence over the diathesis. At the same time, it would be wise fo? the subject of this unfortunate condition to attend to those ordinar>