VOL. II. M M \ TORTICOLLIS. 5^9 ri Sm-o-eon should not, therefore, be too ready to operate in slight cases at (1 tender ages. DEFOKMITIES AFFECTING THE FACE AND NECK. Wry-neck, TorticoUis or Caput Obstipuni, is characterized by a faulty ■i position of the head, which usually takes the form of lateral flexion of the . neck, so that the head is approximated to one or other shoulder, ihe cases i which are included under the general name of "wry-neck, may result from very different causes of which by far the most important are various conditions ' of temporary contraction, permanent retraction, or spasmodic action of one or r more of the muscles of the neck, especially the sterno-mastoids. Torticollis J may however, result from the traction of the cicatrices of burns of the side ' of the neck, and also from disease of the bones or joints of the cervical spine. , It is often a matter of some difficulty to distinguish the deformity resulting J from spinal disease from the ordinary forms of muscular torticolhs. A simple transient form of torticollis is often met with as the "stiff neck " following exposure to cold. This is often spoken of as "rheumatic," but it must be clearly distinguished from certain intractable forms which are some- times associated with or follow other manifestations of rheumatisai. In these cases the sterno-mastoid may be affected, but often the posterior muscles of the neck, especially the trapezius and the splenius capitis, appear to be chiefly at fault. This condition is very liable to become chronic and lead to per- manent retraction of the affected muscles. Wry-neck occasionally comes on in childhood after measles or scarlet fever, usually as a consequence of inflamed cervical glands, and is then due to the position instinctively assumed by the head in order to relax the muscular tension on the inflamed side of the neck. The chronic forms of muscular torticollis are due in most cases to retraction of one sterno-mastoid. This condition is generally met with in childhood, but in rare cases appears to be congenital and may possibly then be due to malposition in the uterus. It has long been thought probable that some cases of torticollis occurring in childhood owe their origin to some damage of one sterno-mastoid muscle during birth. It is now generally recognized that the hard sweUing which is occasionally present in this muscle in infants is the result of partial rupture of the fibres, due usually to traction on the after-coming head in breech presentations (Chap. LIV., p. G13). The relation between this hsematoma of the sterno-mastoid and the subsequent development of torticolhs has heen carefully investigated by numerous observers, and the fact has been estabhshed by Volkmann, Glutton, Owen, D'Arcy Power, and others, that in a certain proportion of cases gradual retraction occurs in the damaged muscle with the production of varying degrees of torticollis. Power finds that of lOG cases of heematoma of the sterno-mastoid which he was able to collect, well-marked wry-neck followed in at least 21 cases. In this variety of the deformity the muscle of the right side is the more usually affected. Permanent retraction of the sterno-mastoid or other muscles is an occasional sequel of the acute rheumatic contractions above mentioned. Paralysis of one sterno-mastoid is a very rare cause of wry-neck ; the deformity is produced by the unopposed contraction of the muscle of the opposite side which may after a time become permanently retracted. Spasmodic torticollis is an unusual form due to clonic or tonic contractions