358 DISEASES OF JOINTS. described as characteristic of rheumatoid arthritis will be found The round igiuncnt IS destroyed, and tlie head of the bone is remarkably altered in shape being flattened, greatly increased in size, or placed more or less at a ri^ht angle with the shaft, sometimes elongated, and always very irregular and tuberous. The neck is more or less absorbed, and in some cases appears as if It had undergone fracture. The acetabulum generally becomes enlarged, some- times of a more or less circular and flattened shape ; but in other cases project- ing and narrowed at its rim, embracing tightly the head of the femur (Fig. S-W). Both it and the upper part of the femur become porous, and perforated with numerous small foramina. Masses of bone are commonly thrown out about the base of the trochanter, but more particularly along the intertro- chanteric line, within the capsule of the joint, and not unfrequently in the soft tissue around it. In many cases the apparent increase in the size of the head of the bone is dependent on the deposition of these masses of osseous tissue upon it, rather than on any expansion of the upper articular end of the thigh- bone. These masses of bone constitute one of the most important characters of the disease. The muscles and soft structures in the Ticinity of the joint are necessarily wasted from disuse. Diagnosis.—It occasionally happens that an individual labouring under this affection meeting with a fall or contusion on the hip, presents signs of fracture of the necic of the thigh-lone, such as shortening, eversion, with some crepitation perhaps, and iualjility to move the limb. The diagnosis may in general be made by attention to the history of the case, and by eliciting the fact that the symptoms have existed to some degree before the accident, although the pain and immobility may have been increased by it. Chronic Rheumatoid Arthritis of the Lower Jaw.—Chronic rheuma- toid arthritis has also been described by 8mith as occasionally affecting the temporo-maxillary articulation in individuals of rather advanced age. This disease is often symmetrical, and gives rise to an enlargement of the condyle of the jaw, which can be felt under the zygoma, attended with much pain in opening the mouth, a sensation of cracking or grating in the joint, and some enlargement of the lymphatic glands in the neck. The pain is generally increased at night, and influenced by the state of the weather. The face