7o8 DISEASES OF THE PHARYNX. Bterno-mastoid from the ear to the hvoid borip Vc^uW^ ar.A n mended a more extensive incision, comZcinTat tL" ^^^^^T'l passing downwards to the angle of the jaw and beyond it towai ds ^^^^^^ great cornu of the hyoid bone. By sawing the jaw in this 1 n and . ! parts widely asiinder tl^ tonsil is brought very clearly into viW.' S] went a step further, and took away a portion of the ascending ramuf o 1 aw without opening the mouth. The details of these operatirL iTst rL a ily vary with the seat of the tumour and the extent of Ihe implication ] e of parts. In order to avoid haemorrhage, the cutting in the deeper m l best done with Paquelin's knife, and with the same object the eSa'c tid has been tied m at least two cases as a preliminary step in the operation ^ r 5./^. have no so far been very satisfactory. Butlin, who has collected cases of removal of malignant tumours of the tonsil, states that although only three died directly from the operation, recurrence had speedily taken dace b the great majority of the survivors, only three being known to be alive and well at periods of four, twelve, and twenty-four months respectively after the operation. To Butlm's list maybe added at least four cases in which do recurrence took place after many months. Local relief has, however, followed many ot the operations, and doubtless, also, in most, life was prolonc^ed The operation is evidently justifiable in well selected cases, and should be done a.s soon as the nature of the disease is recognised. DISEASES OF THE PHARYNX. Catarrhal Pharyngitis.-The acute form, or the ordinary sore throat, is too familiar to every inhabitant of our damp and cold cKmate to need any description. Avoidance of cold, warm external applications and steamino- the throat by means of an inhaler, usually soon eifect a cure, which may be hastened at the end by an alum or port-wine gargle. Chronic cufarrM pharyngitis or " relaxed throat " is characterised by some redness and swellincr of the mucous membrane, often accompanied by elongation of the uvula. The veins of the mucous membrane are often enlarged and visible, and the follicles slightly increased in size. There is an excess of secretion, usually thick and tenacious in character. It may follow repeated attacks of acute catarrh, but is much more commonly associated with dyspepsia caused by the excessive use of alcohol, tea, or tobacco. It is aggravated by cold and damp weather, and greatly relieved by warmth and dryness. The symptoms are usually worse in the morning, and consist in dryness and uneasy sensations as if from the presence of a foreign body, with a constant desire to clear the throat by coughing or to moisten it by drinking. The treatment consists firet in avoiding the causes above mentioned. If there is any tendency to constipa- tion, saline purgatives may be given. Pepper, mustard, curry, &c., should be forbidden. Locally, astringent gargles, chloride of ammonium lozenges, and sprays of bicarbonate of sodium, chloride of ammonium or alum, or insufflations of pulv. catechu pallid, will be found most useful. Change of air to a warm dry climate will usually succeed when other means have failed. Follicular or Granular Pharyngitis is an exaggeration of the pre- ceding condition characterised by marked enlargement of the mucous follicles of the pharynx. The chronic catarrh usually extends into the post-nasal