3<'^o DISEASES OF JOINTS. no ataxy at the time when the disease appeared. The onset of the joint affec- tion may be sudden or gradual. The sudden invasion is most characteristic, and occurs in more than two-tliirds of the cases. It commences with a general and often enonuons swelhng of the Hmb, commonly without pain or fever. After a few days the general swelling disappears, but the joint remains distended with fluid. Sometimes the bursts in tlie neighbourhood of the articulation are also distended. The fluid, if drawn off by the aspirator, quickly re-accumulates. It is perfectly transparent, and of a pale lemon colour. At the end of some wrecks or months the swelling subsides, and the joint may return in exceptional cases nearly to its normal condition. In the more typical cases, however, crackling appears on movement within a few weeks of the commencement of the attack, the ligaments become relaxed as the effusion is absorbed, and the osseous surfaces are altered in form by rapid erosion. In this stage then- is coarse rough grating in flexing or extending the joint, but these movements are unaccompanied by pain. Owing to the alteration in the bony surfaces and the relaxation of the liga- ments, abnormal lateral move- ments, or a capability of over- extension, may be met with, giving vise to great unsteadiness in walking if the lower limb is affected. Dis- location of the diseased joint may occur, especially in the hip or shoulder. This may take place early as a consequence of extreme distension of the capsule during the stage of effusion, or at a later period as a result of the wearing away of the bones. The cases in which the disease sets in gradually more closely resemble chronic rheu- motoid arthritis in their course, being characterized by gradual enlarffement with alteration in form of the ends of the bones accompanied by painless grating on movement. The accompanying figure (Fig. 545) well illustrates the ap- pearances both in the early and the late stages of Charcot's disease. The right elbow was attacked in 1885, after the patient, a man aged about 40, had suffered from symptoms of locomotor ataxy for two years. The joint became rapidly and painlessly distended with fluid. As this subsided, it was found that the bones of the forearm were partially dislocated inwards, and there was free lateral mobility in the joint. In 1887 the joint presented the appearance shown in the figure. It was much deformed by bony outgrowths, the dis- location remained as before, but the lateral mobility had disappeared. Flexion and extension were painless but accompanied by coarse grating, and were slightly limited in extent. At the time the photograph was taken in 1887, the patient was suffering from an acute attack in the left elbow. The whole arm was enormously swollen, and in parts red and brawny, pitting under very firm pressure. There was a sensation of tightness of the skin, but no actual pam