179 ANEURISM OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. jaw to another opposite the middle of the thyroid cartilage. By dividing the superficial fascia and platysma, the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid is exposed and drawn outwards. The lower border of the posterior belly of the digastric is next defined and drawn upwards ; below this muscle the hypoglossal nerve will be seen. The artery can now be exposed on a level with the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and a ligature applied to it between the origin of the superior thyroid and lingual branches. The needle should be passed from the outer side, and great care taken not to include the superior laryngeal nerve which lies behind the vessel. The proximity of large branches to the point of hgature interferes with the formation of the internal coagulum, Figs. 478, 479.—Relations of External Carotid Artery at position of ligature. Tn Fig. 479 the veins have been removed. a, common carotid artery; 6, internal carotid; c, external carotid; d, lingual; c, superior thyroid ; /, common facial vein ; g, intei-nal jugular vein ; i, hypoglossal nerve; j, superior laryngeal nerve (dotted Ime); k, sterno-mastoid muscle (drawn aside); I, stylo-hyoid and digastric muscles: m, parotid gland • 11, great cornu of hyoid bone. ' but the risk of secondary hasmorrhage is small if an absorbable ligature be used and strict asepsis maintained. As an additional safeguard it has been recommended to tie the lingual and superior thyroid branches at the same time. ANEUEISM OF THE INTEENAL CAEOTID. The Internal Carotid Artery may be the seat of aneurism before or after it has entered the cavity of the skull. The symptoms of these two classes of cases differ necessarily in almost every respect. Extracranial Aneurism.—When an aneurism aflTects the trunk of the internal carotid before its entrance into the skull, the symptoms do not materially difier fi'om those of aneurism at the bifurcation, or of the upper part of the common carotid, except in one important respect, which was, I believe, first pointed out by Porter of Dublin—vi25., the tendency of the tumour to extend inwards towards the pharynx, and to protrude into that cavity. The reason of this is obvious : when we consider the anatomical relations of the internal carotid artery, we at once see that its pharyngeal aspect is that which, if one may so term it, is the most superficial—nothino- lying between the vessel and the mucous membrane except the thin superio? constrictor, some lax areolar tissue, and the superior laryngeal nerve ; whilst N 2