1244 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD Partial Excision of the Tunica Vaginalis, as recommended by Vo Bergmann must be regarded as the most certain method of treatment and ava, able m cases m which from the thickness of the Bac-waH nt^tion IS unlikely to be successful, or in which it has failed. The ope a^^^ .sts in ireely exposing and opening the distended tunica vagiualMeplt " he parietal ayer froin its coverings, and cutting it away at a sh;rt di ta 2 'Z:^^, - suturtd : Kocher and JuiUard, however, advise that the sac should not be so exten sively removed. They expose the tunica vaginalis and separate f^om he superhcial coverings of the testicle, great care being taken not to injure the vas deferens or vessels which maybe spread out on the sac. All bleeding being arrested the sac is opened and as much cut away as will leave a sufficient covering lor the testicle. The edges of the sac are then united by catgu sutures, and finally the wound in the skin is united in the same way. Kocher recommends no drainage. Juillard drains the external wound. If all goes we no inflammation of the testicle or the sac follows, and the patient is well m eight days. In hydrocele of children and infants Acupuncture will often be found to effect a cure. The scrotum having been put upon the stretch, the hydrocele IS punctured at two or three points with a large darning-needle, introduced s owly by being rotated between the finger and thumb. From the punctures thQs made the serum slowly escapes into the cellular tissue of the scrotum whence in two or three days it is absorbed. ' This mode of treatment will be found the safest and most effectual in the hydroceles of young children in whom it would be extremely dangerous to attempt a cure by injection of iodine. It may always be safely employed if the application of the lotion before mentioned fails to cure the disease. It is not always prudent to have recourse to the radical cure in the treatment of hydrocele. In persons advanced in years, or of feeble and unhealthy constitution, the inflammation excited in the tunica vaginalis by any of the means just described may run on to such an extent as to give rise to inflammatory oedema, and even sloughing of the scrotum, with great danger to life. In these subjects it is much safer and usually sufficient to temporize with the hydrocele, and only to tap as occasion arises from the increasing size of the swelling. Encysted Hydrocele of the Epididymis.—In this variety of the disease the fluid does not lie in the tunica vaginalis, but is contained in a cyst which projects from the surface of the epididymis. Curling pointed out the fact, that small pedunculated cysts about the size of currants, and composed of a fine serous membrane, lined with tesse- lated epithelium, are very frequently found beneath the visceral tunica vagina- lis covering the epididymis. They are delicate in structure, contain a clear limpid fluid, and are very liable to rupture. They are met with at all ages after puberty. According to Gosselin, after the age of forty they occurred in at least two-thirds of the testes examined to ascertain their presence. Such cysts as these may remain stationary, of small size, uudiscernible during life ; they may rupture into the tunica vaginalis ; or they may enlarge and become developed into tumours of considerable size. Three vestigial structures are present in the neighbourhood of the epididy-