LIGATURE OF FIRST FART OF SUBCLAVIAN. 195 the innominate artery and the tracheal edge of the scalenus anticus, we are at once struck with the great difficulties of this undertaking ; and when we reflect on the position in which the ligature will be placed between the onward current of blood in the innominate on the one side, and the regurgitant stream conveyed by the vertebral, the thyroid axis, the intei-nal mammary and superior intercostal, into the subclavian, immediately beyond the seat of deligation on the other side, we can scarcely anticipate any but the most disastrous results. With reference to the mere difficulties of the operation, Fergusson justly characterizes it as the most serious in Surgery ; the proximity of the common carotid artery on one side, the internal jugular vein on the other, the innomi- nate vein below, the vagus and numerous small venous trunks in front, the recurrent laryngeal nerve and pleura behind, constitute relations of sufficient importance to justify Fergusson's opinion. But supposing these difficulties overcome, and the hgature applied, this must be situated, as has just been stated, in such a posicion, with a strong current of blood flowing upon each side of it, as to render th& formation of an internal coagulum impossible, and thus up to the present time secondary hgemorrhage has invariably occurred, when the ligature separated. In Banks's case (see Table, p. 192) a double catgut ligature was aj)phed without dividing the coats, but hemorrhage occurred on the 31st day and the patient died on the 37th. Besides the danger of secondary htemorrhage from these causes, there would be the additional risk of the coats of the artery being diseased, and thus being rendered insusceptible of healthy repair ; ulceration and sloughing would take place along the track of the ligature, making a recurrence of hsemorrhage probable. Thus, in CoUes's case it was seen, on exposing the subclavian artery, that the aneurism had extended in such a way towards the carotid that it was doubtful whether any part of the affected vessel continued sound. On exposing fully, it was found that only a space of the vessel three lines in length remained free between the sac and the bifurcation of the innominate, and it was in this narrow space that the ligature was applied. The first part of the right subclavian has been ligatured in fifteen cases, all of which proved fatal: thirteen from haemorrhage, one from inflammation of the pericardium and pleura, and one from pyemia. The cases are as follow :— SURGEON. SEX. AGE. COLLES. m. 33 MOTT. f. 21 Haydex. f. 57 O'Reilly m. 39 Parteidge. m. 38 LiSTON.* m. LlSTON.f m. CUVILLIEE.J m. RODGERS. m. 42 AUVERT.§ • > • AUVERT.§ Arndt. ra. 34 Bayer. rn. 21 HOBART X f. Banks. m. 50 AGE. DATE OF DEATH. 4th day. 18th day. 12th day. 13th day. 4th day. 13th day. 36 th day. lUth day. 14th day. 11th day. 22nd day. 5 th day. 24 hours. 16th day. 37th day. CAUSE OF DEATH. Hfemorrhage. Hfemorrhage. Hemorrhage. HEemorrhage. Pericarditis and pleurisy. Hasmorrhage. Hfemorrhage. Haemorrhage. Hasmorrhage. Hfemorrhage. Htemorrhage. Pyaemia. Hasmorrhage. HiEmorrhage from the carotid. Haemorrhage. In this + Fuf "l,^'-'''™**'^ " Y'^^'". l"«"'0'-''J'age came from the siibdavian (Fig 484) t F.g. 48.3. X Carotid also tied. § Referred t., by J. H. Power O 2