DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 48 disease. From lymjjJiadenoma the distinction is likely to be difficult only when a single group of glands is alTected. Under these circumstances the charactoi- of the glandular enlargement is usually sufficiently distinctive. In tuberculous disease the glands rarely reach a large size before softening occurs, and as the result of surrounding inflammatory changes the individual glands become adherent to one another and to the surrounding structures ; in lymphadenoma the individual glands often reach a large size, whilst still showing no evidence of softening and no tendency to become adherent to one another or to the parts around. The diagnosis of a mass of tuberculous glands from a sarcomatous groivth is usually easy. Treatment.—In the treatment of chronic inflammation of lymphatic glands the first endeavour of the Surgeon should be to remove any source of irritation which may be present. Thus, in the case of the neck, special atten- tion must be paid to the condition of the throat and teeth ; the removal of enlarged tonsils and the extraction of decayed teeth being often followed by rapid disappearance of the glandular swelling. Chronic suppuration in the middle ear, pediculi capitis and eczema of the scalp must if present receive appropriate treatment. In many cases, however, no local source of in-itation can be detected, and the Surgeon is in doubt whether the glandular enlarge- ment is tuberculous or not. Under these circumstances constitutional treat- ment may be given a fair trial. Sea-air and a course of cod-liver oil, com- bined if need be with steel wine, or the syrup of the phosphate of iron, will often prove most beneficial. Local applications are rarely needed, but some- times methodical friction with iodine or iodide of potassium ointment, or painting the part with tincture of iodine will aid absorption. Should these methods of treatment fail, the probability is great that the glands are actually tuberculous, and in favourable cases excision may be practised before they have become so adherent as to make complete removal impracticable. By this treatment the Surgeon hopes to avoid disfigurement by irregular cicatrices, to diminish the tendency of the disease to spread to neigh- bouring glands, and possibly to prevent general tuberculous infection. The most favourable cases for excision are those in which only a single group of glands is affected and is still freely movable on the parts around. Such a condition is frequently met with in the submaxillary region and posterior triangle of the neck, and in the axilla. Incisions in the neck should be made as far as possible in the natural folds of the skin of the part, the most frequently useful being those made parallel to the border of the lower jaw and along either border of the sterno-mastoid. The operation often resolves itself into a much more extensive dissection than was anticipated, and important vessels and nerves in the neck are often freely exposed. The internal jugular vein is particularly likely to be wounded, and in removing glands from the posterior triangle the spinal accessory nerve must be carefully preserved. Complete excision is often possible even though the glands have extensively softened. The operation is, however, necessarily more difficult on account of the inflamed condition of the surrounding tissues. Great care must^ be taken to keep close to the capsule of the gland during its removal lest important structures be wounded. If the gland cannot be completely removed it should be scraped out as thoroughly as possible with a sharp spoon (Fig. 96, Vol. I.). Even under these circumstances complete primary union of the wound may be aimed at.