COMPLETE PROLAPSE OF THE RECTUM. 989 •2. Complete Prolapse or Procidentia of the Rectum differs from the partial form in that all the coats of the bowel protrude from the anus, and not merely the mucous membrane. It is the condition which is almost invariably met with in children, and is comparatively rare and seldom exten- i sive in adults. The prolapse presents a smooth red surface, and projects usually for some distance from the anus. As much as six or seven inches have been known to be extruded. It has before been pointed out that intussusception commencing I at the ileo-cfecal valve may reach the anus and actually project from it. In 1 this condition the valve itself forms the apex of the protrusion. If the i intussusception occur in the rectum it may still more readily project from the anus. These conditions are easily distinguished from prolapse of the rectum, for in the latter condition the mucous membrane covering the protruded gut is continuous with the skin at the margin of the anus, while in an intussuscep- tion the finger can be passed into the bowel by the side of the projecting mass. Complete prolapse of the rectum is seldom much swollen, and very rarely becomes strangulated. I The causes of complete prolapse of the rectum in children are numerous. It is common in connexion with dysenteric diarrhoea, especially in weakly children. The irritation of worms is one of the most frequent causes. Polypus of the rectum is an occasional cause, and is easily recognized by the protrusion of the tumour with the bowel. Stone in the bladder is most fre- quently accompanied in children by some protrusion of the bowel during the straining to pass water. On the other hand, an extensive prolapse may cause irritation of the bladder in a male child, and thus simulate stone. In adults complete prolapse may occur as a persistence of the condition occurring in childhood, but more often it begins late in life, probably as the result of a general loss of tone in the part. Treatment.—The large majority of cases of complete prolapse in children are cured if the cause be removed. Worms, diarrhoea, polypus of the rectum, phimosis, and stone in the bladder, if present, should receive appropriate ! treatment. The prolapsed bowel should in all cases be well bathed with cold I water, and then reduced by gentle pressure with some oiled rag. A pad I supported by a T-bandage will often aid in preventing the descent of the bowel; or the buttocks may be drawn together with a broad strip of strapping. In obstinate cases the child should be kept in the recumbent position, and the bowels allowed to act whilst it lies on the side. In many cases a course of tonics, especially iron and cod-liver oil, is beneficial. Very rarely the administration of an anaesthetic is required before the prolapse can be reduced. Still more rarely strangulation and sloughing occur, I in which case small doses of opium must be administered to relieve pain and * an-est any action of the bowels, whilst the prolapse is protected and kept clean. It is only in exceptional cases that any operative treatment is called for, and [, in adopting such measures it is very necessary that the Surgeon bear in mind the possibility of the peritoneum having descended, and even of small intestine being present in the pouch of peritoneum in front of the bowel. Superficial cauterization has been employed with success, the blunt point of Paquelin's cautery being drawn in several longitudinal lines across the mucous membrane. Another method consists in excising small wedge-shaped strips from the anal margin, each strip including part of the mucous membrane. I