i^rfEsTuvAL obstruction: fatally after more than six weeks' obstruction. The diagnosis is m.c^. v , pecnluu- feel of the abdomen, the presence of a smal ' i ; 7ml ! gradual deve opnient of the disease, and possibly by the evidence of tuL elsewhere. Jn simple and mali^nntnt chmnic peritonitis asS is a n!^^^^^^ symptom, and the condition is hardly likely to be confoundedt'th L e S bv a hfn'l'f r^"'"^^' '''''^ ^'^'^ obstruction w s c "^^^ by a band formed m connexion with a malignant growth in the peri one na The abdomen was opened and the bowel relieved from the band Tl. S1 wikf '-"^^- ^^l^^ other conditions may sometimes be mistaken for intestinal obstruction T hus a case was sent mto University College Hospital as intestinal obstruS which turned ou to be stricture of the pylorus, the constipation being me eW due to the fact that no food was passing into the intestine. In another om ur^emic vomiting was attributed to the eflFects of the pressure of a lar^e renal umour on the ascending colon. Such cases as these are usually easily dis- tmguished by careful examination. ^ ^ In any case of supposed intestinal obstruction occurring in a female the pelvic organs should be carefully examined, for there are various conditions such as twisting of the pedicle of an ovarian cyst and ruptured pyosalpinx' which may cause very similar symptoms. In all cases of acute obstruction all the apertures at which a hernia could protrude must be carefully examined as the first and most essential step in the diagnosis. ^ All the above conditions being excluded, and the case being recognized as one of gemime intestinal obstruction, the next question is to determine whether it is to be classed as acute or chronic. There is no difficulty in recog- nizing a typical case of either kind by attention to the symptoms already described (p. 894, and p. 897). Internal strangulation of all kinds, volvulus, and acute intussusception are typically acute ; stricture of the great intestine, f^cal accumulation, and chronic intussusception are typically chronic ; ob- struction from a foreign body in the small intestine, stricture of the small intestine, and some cases of intussusception, although usually presenting symptoms which would bring them into the acute class, may verge upon the chronic. In some cases of chronic obstruction of the great intestine, acute symptoms may suddenly develop from a twist of the gut above the obstruction. The differential diagnosis of the various forms of internal strangulation and twist involving the small intestine is practically impossible, and these may be classed together. Impaction of foreign bodies, including gall-stones, volvulus of the sigmoid flexure, sudden occlusion of a stricture of the small intestine, and acute intussusception in a large proportion of cases, present sufficiently definite symptoms to make an accurate diagnosis possible. Among the chronic obstructions, stricture, faecal accumulations, and chronic intussusception may usually be distinguished from each other, but it is often impossible to deter- mine the exact seat of the obstruction and its nature in cases of stricture. These facts being borne in mind, it is best to write down ou a sheet of paper all the conditions above mentioned, and then to examine the patient methodi- cally in the manner about to be described, noting every symptom under the disease to which it apparently points. In this way a diagnosis will probably be made, if it be possible.