^5° HERNIA. diet—indeed, he should be allowed only barley-water and ice for the fir«t day, and afterwards some beef-tea or chicken-broth ; milk should be avoided as It coagulates in the stomach and is not easily digested. No solid food must be given till the bowels have acted, and all risk of peritonitis passed. The mortality after the operation for strangulated hernia is influenced chiefly by the length of time which has elapsed before it is undertaken (see ■ p. 840). Of 132 consecutive cases operated upon in University College Hospital durmg the ten years 1881 to 1890, 37 died, giving a general mortality of 28 per cent. The result is also greatly influenced by the age of the patient- being very much more favourable in the earlier than in the later periods of life. Of 1,063 cases collected by Macready from the Reports of St. Bartholo mew's, St. George's, St. Thomas's, and University College Hospitals, 33 were ] under ten, and of these 25 recovered and 8 died ; between ten and twenty V) recovered and 5 died ; between twenty and thirty, 83 recovered and 17 died • between thirty and forty, 106 recovered and 28 died ; between forty and fifty' < 165 recovered and 72 died; between fifty and sixty, 127 recovered and 94 died; between sixty and seventy, 102 recovered and 96 died; and above seventy, 44 recovered and 72 died. | Bronchitis with emphysema is a very serious and not uncommon complica- tion, the strangulation being often due to the cough. It is frequently aggra- vated to a fatal degree by the ansesthetic and the exposure during the operation. In these cases chloroform should be used in preference to ether. Obesity, also, has a very unfavourable effect. The depth of the wound in fat people adds to the difficulty of drainage, and the discharges, if allowed to decompose, readily soak into the subperitoneal cellular tissue, and give rise to diffuse cellulitis with sloughing. Accidents and Modifications of the Operation.—The operation having thus been described, we have next to consider in detail certain accidents attending it, or modifications which may be required; such as Peritonitis, Acute Enteritis, the Management of the Intestine according to its con- ditions, the Management of Adhesions and of the Omentum, Wounds of the Intestine and of Arteries, Sloughing of the Sac, Artificial Anus, and Fseeal Fistula. Diffuse Peritonitis is a most serious complication after operations for strangulated hernia. It very rarely exists at the time of the operation. In at certain number of cases it arises from the introduction of septic matter into the cavity of the abdomen from the wound either at the time of the operation or at a later period should suppuration take place. In other cases it is dependent upon the condition of the gut at the time it is reduced. Even if iti be actually gangrenous it may rapidly become surrounded by firm inflammatory exudation, and diffuse inflammation may thus be prevented. More commonly this fails, the inflammation extends more widely, and the quantity of the exuda- tion becomes so great that the healthy part of the peritoneum cannot absorb it (see Vol. I., p. 890) ; septic changes then take place in the accumulated fluid ;: the irritating products are diffused widely, and general peritonitis results. When; the gut is gangrenous, and probably if it be very acutely inflamed as the result: of long strangulation, the surrounding inflammation of the peritoneum may- assume a septic form, the infection taking place from within the gut. The first cause can be obviated by the use of antiseptics during the operation, but;