93 DISEASES OF ARTERIES. disease shows tluifc the morbid change commences in the deeper layers of the inner coat, the affected area being bounded externally by the yellow elastic lamina. The flattened cells which lie between the laminai of connective tissue of which the deeper part of the intima is chiefly composed proliferate. The new cells are arranged in lines between the laminae. With the proliferation of the cells there is a growth of new laminaj of connective tissue closely resem- bling that of the healthy inner coat, both in appearance and in arrangement, but they are altogether inelastic. The relative amount of cells and fibrous intercellular substance varies in different cases, but the chief bulk of the new tissue is always composed of the lattei-. The cells are small, rounded oi' slightly flattened, and contain a nucleus of considerable size, round which it ih often difficult to recognize any protoplasm. No vessels penetrate the new tissue, and consequently when it reaches a certain stage of development the central parts are but imperfectly nourished, and degeneration commenccb. The cells become shrivelled and granular, and fatty granules also appear in the intercellular substance. At a later stage calcareous granules may also make their appearance. If softening takes place, the fat granules increase in quantity, and solution of the intercellular substance follows. If compleu; liquefaction takes place, the atheromatous fluid is found under the microscope to be composed chiefly of fatty debris and oil globules, and very frequentl\- it contains plates of cholesterine (Fig. 438). The accompanying drawing (Fig. 439) illustrates the structure of an atheromatous patch very well. The changes in the middle and outer coats require but little notice. The middle coat in the later stages is often invaded by a growth similar in character and structure to that which original!}- started in the inner coat. In fact, it seems to be an extension of the same growth, the true structures of the middle coat being atrophied from pressure. The outer coat shows a growth of new fibrous • tissue containing a number of small round, or elongated cells. Nature and Causes.—The views as to the nature of the disease have undergone various changes, but at the present time it is almost universally regarded as a chronic inflammatory process, characterized by overgrowth of the affected tissue followed by degeneration. Gulliver was long ago inclined to this opinion, and it has been especially insisted on by Yirchow, Billroth, and Moxon. That it belongs to the class of morbid processes almost universally spoken of as chronic inflammations may be said now to be generally accepted,. but the difference between these and acute inflammation is so marked that probably, with the advance of pathological knowledge, a complete separation i will be made between them. The most important cause of chronic endarteritis is mechanical strain. This may be constant, as the result of abnormal resistance in the capillaries or smaller arteries, or intermittent, such as occurs during violent exertion, in which, while the heart is beating forcibly, the resistance to the circulation is increased by the contraction of the muscles. Moxon has brought forward abundant evidence in proof of this theory. He points out that atheroma occurs more constantly and at an earliei- period in males than in females, and. Fig. 438.—Fatty lUhris, oil globules and cholesterine crystals from a softened atheromatous patch.