! "lo DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. ^ the bladder. The skin is dissected up for a short distance around, and the i edges ai-e drawn across the bladder and united with sutures in the middlo line. Trendelenburg and Thiersch have obtained satisfactory results by this method; in Makins's case the second part of the operation was followed by sloughing, but in the end a fairly satisfactory result was obtained by the use of flaps. The operation does not appear to have been followed bv any weakening of the pelvis or interference with the walking power, and it certainly seems worthy of further trial in these distressing cases. It is avail- able only in young children. THE USE OF THE CySTOSCOPE. D Before proceeding to consider the more important affections of the urinary I bladder, it will be convenient to describe briefly the method employed in the ' examination of the interior of the bladder by means of electric illumination. This method of examination was first carried out by Nitze of Berlin in 1879,'J and since then its practical utility has been demonstrated, amongst others, byr Hurry Fenwick in this country and by Meyer in New York. The Cystoscope, in the improved form constructed by Leiter of Vienna,., has the form of a hollow sound, with a short angular beak. The latter- contains the electric lamp, which is exposed through a small window* closed by a pane of rock-crystal. The rays of light from the illuminatedii object enter a window in the angle formed by the beak and stem of the instni- • ment; they are here refracted by a prism, and, after passing through a series* of lenses in the hollow stem, by which the size of the object is magnified, they ;, enter the observer's eye, which is applied to the expanded ocular end of the e instrument. For ordinary purposes the light and window are placed in tbe-^ concavity of the instrument, but for examining the lower part of the bladder: an instrument having the light and window on the convexity may be more «■ convenient. The bladder having been washed out and injected with at least four ounces*, of clear fluid, the cystoscope is passed in the same way as an ordinary sound. 1. In health the mucous membrane of the bladder looks " very like the retina as • ' seen through the ophthalmoscope." The chief use of the cystoscope is as a means of examination in obscure ^ urinary cases in which all other methods have failed to detect the nature of f the disease. By its use the necessity of an exploratory operation may bet- avoided. It has been found of the greatest value in certain cases of painless s htematuria, in which the vesical or renal origin of the blood has been ■ doubtful. Among the conditions in which it may enable the Surgeon to make a diagnosis are certain forms of ulceration of the bladder ; calculi which have not been detected with the sound in consequence of their being. encysted, hidden in a pouch behind the prostate, or between folds of mucous e membrane ; tumours of the bladder ; enlargements of the prostate ; and sus- - pected presence of a foreign body. Blood has been observed escaping from • one ureter, and by observing the condition of the ureteral orifice, and the character of the jets of urine escaping from it, information has in some cases - been gained as to the condition of the corresponding kidney. The view of the bladder may quickly be obscured if the fluid in it becomes ? turbid or blood-stained.