573 OPERATIONS OX THE BRA IS ■nitisypbilifcic treatment for at least six weeks before operation is under- ' ,ken. A true tumour is generally characterized by a slow progressive develop- ineut of the symptoms, while both tuberculous and syphilitic growths may after a time become stationary. The cases suited to operation are undoubtedly rare. Of 54 specimens of intracranial tumour reported on by a committee of rlie Pathological Society in 1886 only two seemed suited to operation. Trephining for epilepsy has frequently been undertaken as before described \'ol. I., p. 780) in cases of traumatic origin, and in which there has been a j.ainful or tender scar, or some evident depression of the bone ; but it is only within the last few years that portions of the brain have been removed for the cure of that disease. To justify the operation it is necessary that every fit uuist commence with some definite movement which can be referred to one of the cortical motor centres, or that there should be some paresis or paralysis indicating the part of the cortex afiected, without which there can be no guide as to the point at which to ajoply the trephine. Trephining for aiscess of the Irain consequent upon compound fractures of the skull or scalp wounds exposing the bone has long been a recognised opera- tion of surgery. It is but recently, however, that the operation has been undertaken for abscess resulting from disease of the ear, with which condition It will be more fully described. The first operation undertaken for the relief of symptoms due to a morbid o'l'owth in the brain was performed by Macewen in 1883. The patient had iralysis of the left arm, and a softening gumma was exposed by trephining over the arm centre of the right side. The patient recovered. The first operation for a diagnosed glioma was performed by Grodlee in a ■ase under the care of Hughes Bennett in 188 The patient unfortu- nately died about a month after the operation from'hernia cerebri and menin- gitis. Since that time the operation has been brought-to great perfection by Victor Horsley. Of the first four cases treated by him three recovered, one dying subsequently of recuri-ence. The fourth case was one of tumour of the cerebellum, and the patient died from the shock of the operation. Writing in 1898, Allen Starr was able to collect 97 cases in which opera- tions had been undertaken for diagnosed tumour of the brain, in 35 of which however the tumour was not found, while in 3 it was found but not removed. There thus remain 59 cases in which the tumour was successfully locaHzed and removed ; of these 49 recovered and 17 died. Concerning the position of the tumour it may be stated that in 54 cases this was one of the cerebral hemispheres, 43 being in the motor area. Of these 54 cases of cerebral tumour 39 recovered and 15 died. In the remaining 5 cases a tumour was removed from the cerebellum ; of these 2 recovered and 3 died. In certain cases of cerebral tumour in which the position or size of the m'owth renders its removal impossible, Horsley has undertaken a free excision of bone over it with the object of relieving the symptoms directly due to increased intracranial pressure. The relief thus afforded has in some instances hcen very marked, and has persisted until the patient's death. Thus the iieadache may entirely cease, whilst in cases with severe vomiting this has at once stopped. The most remarkable result, however, is the efi:ect upon the "ptic neuritis; if this has not advanced to atrophy the swelling of the disc ripidly begins to diminish, and in some instances the neuritis has completely ubsided within three weeks.