4o6 DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. pelvis. The swelling of the affected articulation not only pushes forwards, but rotates downwards, the anterior and superior portion of the ilium ; and hence the anterior superior spine is not only at a lowei- level, but is also more prominent on the diseased than on the sound side. The limb itself usually lies straight, and is wasted and enfeebled. 0. Abscess occurs only at a late period of the disease. Many months, a year or more, may elapse before suppuration is fairly established, or, at all events, before the formation of pus is so abundant that it can be recognized as an abscess. I have observed abscess in connexion with this disease in five situations—viz., over the articulation, in the gluteal and in the lumbar regions, within the pelvis, and in connexion with the rectum. The first indication of abscess is met with over the diseased articulation. The puffy swelling, which is there perceptible in the earlier stages of the affection, gradually softens, until at last fluctuation is established in it. From this point it may spread outwards into the gluteal region, nearly as far as, but not enveloping, the trochanter ; or it may take another course and stretch upwards, forming a considerable accumulation in the loin, upon and just above the crest of the ilium. These forms of sacro-iliac abscess are extra- pelvic ; the other varieties are intrapelvic. The latter are of three kinds. In one form the pus passes out of the sciatic notch, and under the great gluteal muscle ; in the next it gravitates downwards into the ischio-rectal fossa, and presents by the side of the rectum ; and in the third variety which I have observed, the abscess opens into the gut, abundant discharge takes place per anum, and, flatus from the bowel passing into the suppurating cavity, a tympanitic abscess results. The Diagnosis of sacro-iliac disease is important, and not always easy. There are five distinct affections with which it may be confounded—viz. neuralgia of the hip, sciatica, spinal disease, disease of the hip-joinc, and disease of the pelvic bones. 1. Neuralgia of the hip in young females may readily enough be confounded with the earlier stages of sacro-iliac disease. But the widely spread and snperficial nature of the pain which is not limited to the neighbourhood of the diseased articulation, the co-existence of the hysterical temperament, and the sex of the patient render the true nature of the affection sufficiently clear. The obKquity of the pelvis which occasionally occurs in neuralgia of the hip, and causes apparent elongation of the hmb, is readily removed when the patient lies on the back ; whereas, in sacro-ihac disease, position does not affect the displacement of the limb on the affected side. 2. Sciatica.—in this affection, the age of the patient, usually more advanced than that of the subjects of sacro-ihac disease ; the seat of the pain, below the articulation, and its extent down the back of the limb, the tenderness being in the line of the great sciatic nerve, and not over the articulation, and the fact that it is not increased by pressing on the iliac spines ; with the absence of deformity, will enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. 3. From spinal disease, the diagnosis is usually sufficiently easy : for although the situation of an abscess arising from caries of the vertebra may be the same as of that which results from sacro-iliac disease, yet m the vast majority of cases of caries of the spine, excurvation of the vertebra has become prominently marked by the time that the abscess has acquired so large a size as to occupy the inferior lumbar or gluteal regions. In some