TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF OS CALCIS. 461 In cases of limited tuberculom disease of the tarsus, especially in children, most excellent results are often obtained by scraping operations performed m the manner already described in the chapter on Diseases of Bones (p. 28o). In this way formal excisions have been largely superseded and amputation avoided except in cases in which repeated recurrence and extension of the disease occur. Primary disease of the articulations of the foot is a less frequent cause ot operation than caries of the bones leading secondarily to an implication of the contiguous articulations ; and the particular operation required will, in a great measure, depend upon the extent of implication of the synovial membranes of the foot. When the calcaneo-astragalar or the calcaneo-cuboid articulations are alone affected, with their contiguous bones, resection of the bones and joints implicated will often be attended with very satisfactory results; but when the large anterior tarsal synovial membrane is in a state of chronic disease, either primary or secondary to disease of the scaphoid, the cuneiform, or of either of the metatarsal bones connected with it, then resection is scarcely admissible, and Chopart's amputation offers the best means of relief. Inflammation of the large anterior tarsal synovial membrane commonly commences in disease of the scaphoid. It may, usually, be readily recognized in its earlier stages by the pain and swelling that take place across the line of articulation between the scaphoid and cuneiform bones, the pain being greatly increased by bending the foot down, and extending across the whole breadth of the foot. Although it is usually most severe at the inner side, which is the first affected, yet the external section of this complicated articulation—that between the external cuneiform and the cuboid—becoming involved, causes pain in the outer side of the foot as well. In the more advanced stages of this disease, the foot assumes a remarkable bulbous or clubbed appearance ; the symmetry of the heel and the outline of the ankle are unimpaired, but the fore part and dorsum of the foot are greatly swollen, glazed and sometimes perforated by sinuses discharging thin pus. I look upon this disease of the anterior tarsal synovial membrane as a distinct affection of the foot, requiring to be diagnosed from the other strumous inflammations, and in its advanced stages calling for Chopart's amputation. The Os Calcis, from its exposed situation, large size, and spongy structure, is more frequently the seat of caries and necrosis than any of the other tarsal bones. Very commonly the disease is limited to this bone ; in other instances it extends into the calcaneo-astragalar or calcaneo-cuboid articulations. When the xwskrior or laie.ral part of ike hone is affected the neighbouring articulations are seldom involved, and then the removal of the disease by gouging or scraping with sharp spoons will usually effect a cure. I have frequently had occasion in this way to scoop out great portions, some- times the whole of the interior of the calcaneum, with the most excellent Fig. 593.—Disea.se of Os Calcis and Cuboid, and of Calcaneo-Cuboid Joint: Lines of Incision.