REDUCIBLE HERNIA; .APPLICATION OF TRUSS. 827 abdominal wall. 2. When direct inguinal or femoral, it may be small, but when oblique inguinal or ventral, it is often large and rounded, the aperture through which it protrudes being irregular and wide. 3. The margins of the aperture in an old hernia are more rounded than in one of recent formation. 4. Recent hernige are more often intestinal, not omental. 5. They are readily reducible ; whilst old hernise are frequently irreducible in whole or in part, and omental. G. After reduction the sac of a recent hernia when rolled between the fingers will feel thinner and softer than that of an old one. 7. Strangu- lation may occur at the moment of protrusion of a hernia. Hence, although more frequent in old than in recent hernise, its existence does not prove the hernia to be old. 8. In old hernias, if the patient has worn a truss, there will usually be signs of pressure, or of chafing of the skin. Application of Truss.—In the Treatment of a reducible hernia, the object is to retain the protrusion within the cavity of the abdomen. In order to do this, the patient must be provided with a truss, adapted to the particular nature of the hernia. In umbilical and ventral ruptures, an elastic belt and pad may most conveniently be used. In selecting the truss, care should be taken that the spring be of proper strength, adapted to the size and power of the individual; and that it be properly shaped, so that it does not touch any part of the abdominal wall, but merely bears upon the points of pressure and counter-pressure. The pad should be convex, firmly stuifed, and of sufficient size to press, not only upon the external aperture, but upon the whole length of the canal. Before applying the truss, the hernia must be reduced, by placing the patient in the recumbent position, relaxing the muscles by bending the thigh upon the abdomen, and pressing the tumour back in the proper direction ; the truss should then be put on, and worn during the whole of the day ; indeed, the patient should never be allowed to stand without wearing it. At night, it may either be left olf altogether, or a lighter one applied. The patient should be provided with a "bathing" truss, that is, a truss covered with india-rubber, so as to resist the action of the water. It is well that the ordinary truss be covered with linen, so that the leather may be kept clean, and unstained by perspiration and the spring free from rust. In some cases, the skin becomes irritated by the pressure of the pad ; in these circumstances, an elastic air- cushion may be used, or the parts subjected to pressure may be well washed with spirit lotion and a dusting powder used. The truss may be known to fit by testing it in the following way : The patient should be made to sit down on the edge of a chair, and then, extending his legs, opening them widely, and bending the body forwards, cough several times. If the hernia do not now slip down behind the pad, we may be sure that the truss is efficient, and will keep the rupture up in all ordinary circumstances. It is the Surgeon's duty to tell the instrument-maker what form of truss is required, and to see that the instrument fulfils its object. It is always better for the instrument-maker to see the patient and measure him for the truss, but in country practice this is often impossible, and the Surgeon must then measure the patient himself and order the required instrument. The most important measurement is the circumference of the pelvis taken midway between the crest of the ilium and the trochanter major. Most instrument- makers say that this is all they require ; but to ensure accuracy, it is better to send also the exact measurement in the line in which the truss will lie, com- mencing at the centre of the ring, and passing round the pelvis midway