I 1246 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. the abdomen, unless the testicle be drawn firLy down so as tHut tl-^ on the stretch when the cyst becomes fixed. 'ltTc2es no' m^^^^^^^^^^^^^ couo-lnng, and does not alter in size on being steadily compressed Oc 1 sionally more than one cyst may be met with. It appears to be due in r.r«f cases to nnperfect closure at one or more points of The fulular p^Aion the processus vagmahs and to distension by fluid of the unclosed portions In some msta,,ces m wh.ch the cyst lies at the lower end of the cord, it i pc^'sible U at It arises as a cystic growth from the vas aberrans or the orga^ of G^ra de • These tumours may occur at all ages, but are met with chiefly in the youo and are no unfrequent amongst children. The fluid of a hydrocele of the cord IS lighter m colour than that of one of the tunica vaginalis ' _ Ihe Treatment of these cysts is best conducted by dissecting them out If simply punctured they speedily fill again ; injection of iodine is uncertain and may give rise to troublesome inflammation. In dissecting them out care « must be taken not to injure the constituents of the cord. If they rupture and the whole wall cannot be got away, recurrence is very likely to occur ' The name funicular hydrocele is sometimes used for a rare condition in which the funicular process remains open, but is shut off below from the 1 tunica vaginalis. A reducible swelling forms in front of the cord from I accumulation of fluid in the open process. Diffused Hydrocele of the Cord consists in the infiltration of the ^ spermatic cord with serous fluid, contained in fairly distinct spaces, and 1 giving rise to an oval or oblong irregular circumscribed tumour, extending -f below and into the inguinal canal. The Treatment consists in the application of blisters, or of counter-irritant plasters. Should the. disease prove very troublesome, an incision might be made into the swelling, so as to let out the fluid and allow the cysts to become consolidated. HEMATOCELE. By Haematocele is meant an accumulation of blood in connexion with the testicle or spermatic cord. In the large majority of cases the blood is effused into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. % Haematocele of the Tunica Vaginalis is of two kinds, traumatic and 1 spontaneous. The Traumatic is by far the more common form, usually arising from a blow on or a squeeze of the testis, by which one of the veins ramifying on the surface of the gland is ruptured, and blood is poured into the tunica vaginalis. It may arise also in tapping a hydrocele, from the point of the trochar being pushed too directly backwards and puncturing the testis, or wounding a vessel in the cord, or occasionally from a blow upon a hydrocele. Spontaneous Hiematocele is a disease of rare occurrence, arising apparently from the rupture of an enlarged spermatic vein into the tunica vaginalis. It attains a larger size, and is altogether a more formidable affection, than the traumatic haematocele. Characters.—In whatever way occurring, a hfematocele slowly but gradu- ally • increases until it attains about the size of a duck's egg, or even that