TREATMENT OF CONGENITAL TALIPES EQUINO-VARUS. 555 should be commenced by frequently moulding the foot into the p^^^f^^^^^^^^^^ which it can be drawn. By this simple means alone some of slighter cas s may be entirely cured. In the large majority of cases however, o her measur s are required, and the following method will often be found most satisfactory ^ straight splint of block-tin is prepared, as suggested by Little, long enough to reach from the knee to slightly beyond the toes, and about an inch and a half in breadth. The sphnt is completely covered with soft wash-leather it is then moulded to the outer side of the leg and foot and secured with a narrow bandage, the foot being placed in the fully extended position, ihe inversion of the foot is gradually corrected by bending the lower end ot the sphnt outwards day by day, until, if possible, the position of inversion is replaced by one of slight eversion. The sphnt should be removed daily, and the foot thoroughly rubbed and manipulated. By this means the inversion of the foot is cured and the case converted into one of simple tahpes equinus, which may sometimes be remedied by applying a block-tm or thiii wooden splint with a rectangular footpiece. As a rule, however, division of the tmdo AcMllis is the most ready way of remedying the extension of the foot. The hmb should be placed on its outer side. The assistant then relaxes the tendon sHghtly while the Surgeon shdes a tenotome beneath it from the inner side ; the assistant then makes the tendon tense, and the Surgeon pro- ceeds to divide it, using the knife as a lever, the fulcrum being the edge of the malleolus. The Surgeon must keep the fingers of his left hand on the tendon to feel that the knife does not approach the skin too closely. As the section proceeds he will hear the tendon creaking as its fibres are successively cut through. The division may safely be made from the cutaneous surface if it be preferred. The tendon must be made tense, and the point of the tenotome entered through the skin close to its anterior surface ; the foot is then fully extended, while the Surgeon pinches up the skin, and passes the tenotome between it and the tendon. He then turns the edge of the knife to the tendon, while the assistant forcibly flexes the ankle. No sawing or free cutting is required if the knife have been entered sufficiently far forwards. Unless care be taken in cutting though the tendo Achilhs, there is also some risk of wounding the artery ; as, in bad cases of varus, these two structures lie close together, the tendon being drawn out of the median line towards the inner ankle. In one instance I have seen the posterior tibial artery punc- tured in an attempt to divide some tense bands that lay beneath this tendon ; the bleeding, which was very free, was, however, readily stopped by firm pressure by means of a pad and bandage over the bleeding orifice. Tamplin states that he has seen no ill effects follow this accident. If a circumscribed traumatic aneurism form, it must be laid open, the clots turned out, and the vessel tried. After the tenotomy the foot should be fixed on a rectangular sphnt, which should be readjusted at least once a day, and the manipulation continued. The treatment here described is thus seen to include two stages : first, the correction of the varus by the use of splints; and secondly, the correction of the equinus by division of the tendo Achillis. In mild cases the position of the foot can be gradually corrected by the application of a plaster of Paris bandage, which is reapplied every ten days or a fortnight. This has, however, the disadvantage that the plaster cannot be removed for the employment of manipulation.