BLEPHAROFLASTY. 655 Plastic operations of various kinds are frequently performed on the eyelids. Blepharoplasty, or the operation by which the eyelids are repaired, is occasionally required for loss of substance—the result of wounds, cicatrices, or operations. It is less satisfactory in its results than most of the other plastic procedures about the face ; yet it may, in some cases, materially improve tlie patient's appearance. When the upper eyelid requires repair, the flap is taken from the forehead ; when it is the lower lid, from the cheek or temple. This operation may be performed by the gliding method, by twisting a flap into its new situation, or by transplantation of a piece of skin. By the gliding method, a triangular flap is cut and partially detached (Fig. 702, a), and then drawn gently forwards until it corresponds to and fills up the gap that requires repair, when ib is there fixed by a few points of suture. When the twisting method is employed, an oval flap is detached (Fig. 702, &), except its pedicle, and twisted down, to be planted on the raw surface. Occasionally neither of these methods is applicable ; and then the procedure that I successfully adopted in a case of which the annexed cut (Fig. 703) is a representation, may be followed. In this case, which was that of a lady who had received a severe mutilation of the face by the bursting of a ginger-beer bottle, there was a deep and hard cicatrix across the lower eyelid, causing depression and eversion of its outer portion, and adhesion of the inner part to the ball of the eye. After dividing the adhesions and removing the cicatrix, I made a semilunar incision so as to dissect up the eyelid, and then fixed it by points of suture in its new situation, when it became firmly adherent (Fig. 704), and scarcely any apparent deformity was left. In another very similar case, in which a girl had been bitten through the lower eyelid by a dog, a similar operation was practised with equally good results. In both these cases the eyeball, having been injured, had become atrophied, with opacity of the cornea. But, when an artificial eye was adjusted to the shrunken globe, the appearance of the patient was most satisfactory. Restoration of the lower eyelid in extreme ectropion by complete trans- plantation of a piece of skin was first performed by G-. Lawson in 1870, and afterwards by Wolfe of Glasgow in 1875, since which time it has repeatedly been performed with success. The operation is thus performed : the eyelid IS first freed from the abnormal situation into which it has been drawn until its free border can be brought in contact with the upper lid, to which it