626 DISEASES OF THE GUMS AND ALVEOLAR PROCESSES. influenced by the fumes, and that the phospliorus acts through carious teeth but Langenbeck has observed that tiie teeth have been sound in cases of ^K disease. Mears of Philadelphia, who has seen a large nun ber o" c^^s t ' 0 opinion that the necrosis is due to the general tnd not the loctuC^f poison, i^■I^'^f'Tf' J^^^ unattended with any difficulty, but in certain cases a sequestrum included in a thick mass of new bone may somewhat closely resemble a central tumour. In the upper law especially when limited to the palatal process, it may resemble epithelioma \n the raised and everted edges of the ulcer in the hard palate and the sponL^v leel communicated to the probe by the dead bone. The Treatment of necrosis of the jaw presents nothing special The removal of the sequestra should be effected as far as practicable through the interior of the mouth, by free incisions through the gums. In the upiier jaw, where the necrosis seldom extends beyond the alveolar border or the palatal process, this may always readily be done. In the lower jaw, the question "as to whether the dead bone should be extracted through the mouth, or by incision from without through the cheek, will be determined partly by the position of the sinuses and partly by the situa- tion and extent of the bone affected. If the sinuses be in the cheek, or in the side of the neck, or under the angle of the jaw, it is usually an indication that, if the whole of the corres- ponding ramus or body of the bone be not involved, the pos- terior and outer parts are cer- tainly affected ; and, in these circumstances, extraction of the sequestrum is best effected by opening up the sinuses parallel to the line of the jaw. The incisions for this purpose need not usually be very extensive. If the operation be delayed, in accordance with those principles that guide us in the management of necrosed bone generally, until the sequestrum is quite loose, it may usually be readily extracted, in whole or in pieces, through an opening that will leave but a small cicatrix. By such operations as these, the whole of the lower jaw has been extracted piece- meal at intervals in a state of necrosis, first on one and then on the other side. Carnochan has removed the whole of the necrosed lower jaw at one operation, disarticulating first one and then the other condyle in the usual way. If, however, there be no external abscess or sinus—if the gum have been loosened and perforated, with a ragged portion of sequestrum projecting through it into the cavity of the mouth, then no external incisions will be required, but the dead bone may readily be removed from within the Fig. 686.—Wood's Case of Phosphorus Necrosis of entire Lower Jaw.