DISEASES OF THE BLADDEU. In rare insfcauces severe cystitis results from the bursting of a neifrhbourin^ abscess into the visous ; such a cause is occasionally met vTith in the femal^ ^ the result of a pelvic abscess or pyo-salpinx. A severe form of septic cystitig may occur m females as a complication of retroversion of tlie gmvid uteru It is due to retention of urine, with dribbling from the over-full bladder • if' may end in sloughing of the bladder wall, and is apt to assume the mm! branous form described below. The most common example of a true infvdlr, cijslilis IS that which occurs as a complication of gonorrhoea ' ' Gout\^ commonly looked upon as a cause of cystitis, but its exact relatioa to the disease is little understood. J| Lastly, acute cystitis may occur without any obvious cause ; it is then usually attributed to exposure io cold, but it is doubtful whether this is ever the sole cause of the inflammation, except perhaps in gouty subjects. • ^!!^ Symptoms of acute cystitis consi'st not only ia local pain and weight in the hypogastric and iliac regions, with tenderness on pressure in these situations, and a good deal of constitutional irritation ; but in the existence of extreme irritability about the bladder. As soon as a few drops of urine collect, they excite so much irritation that they cannot be retained, and are expelled by a kind of spasmodic or convulsive effort, constituting strangury, often accompanied by a good deal of tenesmus and great suffering. The urine will be found to be high-coloured, mixed with more or less mucus or pus, and often tinged with blood. The constitutional disturbance varies greatly \ in the more severe septic and infective forms there may be considerable eleva- tion of temperature, sometimes with rigors. Pathological Changes.—The mucous membrane is swollen and reddened, these changes being most marked on the summits of the rugse. The mem- brane is often covered with a layer of mucus, pus, and phosphates. In some forms of septic cystitis with foul urine the surface of the bladder is lined by a thick membranous layer of inflammatory exudation and altered epithelium. This condition, to which the name " membranous " or " diphtheritic " cystitis has been applied, is most commonly met with in females, and in rare instances the false membrane has been passed by the urethra, forming a complete cast of the bladder. As a very rare result of acute cystitis the mucous membrane may slough over considerable areas, and separate in the form of shreddy masses, exposing the muscular tissue. The presence of micro-organisms in the bladder can almost always be demonstrated in cases of acute cystitis. In 8 cases of puerperal cystitis Bumm found a diplococcus, resembling, but not apparently identical with, the gonococcus. The ordinary micro-organisms of suppuration are sometimes met with, and in a considerable number of cases the bacterium coli commune has been demonstrated. Termination.—An acute attack of cystitis usually terminates in the chronic form of the disease, and thus gradually undergoes resolution. Occasionally, however, it terminates fatally ; and when this is the case, the urine becomes excessively foul, and death takes place from septicsemia, suppurating kidney, or more rarely from peritonitis. The temperature, which at first may have been elevated, gradually falls, the tongue becomes brown and dry, the pulse rapid and weak, and the patient sinks into a drowsy semi-comatose state before death. Should sloughing of the mucous membrane occur, collections of pus may form in the substance of the wall of the bladder, and not unfrequently the