2)6 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. \ len-th of from 1| to 3 inches was treated in this way ; all recovered without The loss acute forms of the disease call for no treatment beyond atten- tion to cleanliness while the sequestra are becoming loose enough for removal. In the more acute forms which threaten to terminate in pyasmia, nothing can be done so far as the affected bone is concerned, except its removal ; but whether this should be done in the continuity of the bone or at the joint above, is a question on which different opinions ai-e entertained among surgical authorities. If an operation be performed upon the continuity of a bone affected with diffuse suppuration in the medullary canal, the septic inflamma- tion will almost certainly recur in the part of the bone which is left. Hence, it has been strongly urged by some Surgeons, especially Ijy J. Roux, that the operation should be performed at the joint above the diseased bone, in prefer- ence to amputation through its continuity. Roux, who had extensive experience in the Italian war of 1859, successfully disarticulated the thigh at the hip- joint, in four cases of osteomyelitis consequent on gunshot injuries of the lower end of the femur. Of 22 cases in which he performed secondary dis- articulation at other joints for osteomyelitis, all recovered ; whereas every case terminated fatally in which the amputation was performed through the con- tinuity of the injured bone after the battles of Magenta, Montebello, Marig- nano, and Solferino. On the other hand, Larrey did not consider disarticula- tion absolutely indispensable, even in cases of acute osteomyelitis ; and Long- more has met with cases in which recovery has followed the simple removal of portions of dead bone—the disease in these instances having assumed a chronic form. Fayrer advises that, where osteomyelitis is suspected to be present in a stump after amputation, the medulla should be examined with a probe. If this soon impinge on healthy bleeding medulla, the Surgeon may wait for the efforts of nature to throw off the diseased bone ; if, on the other hand, the probe encounter only dead bone and pus, then the sooner amputation is performed the better. The special danger in osteomyelitis consists in the tendency to the super- vention of osteophlebitis and pysemia ; and, in deciding upon the amputation or exarticulation of a bone thus affected, it is of the first importance not to delay the operation until pysemic symptoms have set in. There is a period between the development of the local inflammation and the pyemic infection which should not be allowed to pass. During this period the patient is affected by septic fever, but there are no rigors. If once the characteristic rigors and the irregular temperature and profuse sweats of pysemia have set m_, i believe that operation can be of no use, as the patient will certainly perish from secondary abscesses or general blood-poisoning. But, before rigors have occurred, the amputation may be done with a good prospect of success, ihe unsuccessful results of the treatment of this disease render it all the more imperatively necessary to prevent it by the adoption of efficient antiseptic dressing and proper attenton to the hygienic surroundings of the patient. In military practice, however, this is not always possible. It has been suggested, instead of amputating at once, to scoop out the medulla with a sharp spoon and to introduce iodoform into the canal. Perkowski has recorded 8 cases in which he caiTied out this treatment when the symptoms of osteomyelitis had set in after amputations. In three the whole of the medullary canal remaining was scraped out, and m the other fi