FYLO RECTO MY. 935 the stomach through a tube. If this treatment be impossible, as in a case of Warrington Haward's, on account of the thickening around the perforation, the stomach should be drawn up to the wound and fixed there, as in the operation of gastrostomy. Finally, no pains must be spared to cleanse the peritoneum thoroughly by irrigation and sponging before closing the abdo- minal incision. After the operation rectal feeding should be adopted for about a week if possible, thirst being best relieved by very small quantities of hot water given by the mouth. Of 27 cases collected by Gilford of Reading in which laparotomy was performed for perforated gastric ulcer 6 recovered, the successful cases having been treated by J. W. Taylor, Barling, Kriege, Morse, Maclaren and Gilford. To these must be added cases operated upon successfully by Bennett, Morris, Nicholson, Jowers, Walters, and Pollard. The outlook must be regarded as practically hopeless if the operation is delayed until acute peritonitis is actually established. In other cases, adhesions having formed before perforation occurs, a localized peritonitis results, with the formation of a subdiaphragmatic abscess, which derives much of its importance from its close resemblance to various conditions within the chest. Penrose and Lee Dickinson have recently recorded 10 cases of abscess beneath the diaphragm in connexion with perforating gastric ulcer. They find that the usual boundaries of the abscess are as follows : above, the arch of the diaphragm; on the right, the falciform ligament; below, the left lobe of the liver and part of the anterior surface of the stomach ; in front, the abdominal wall with the stomach adherent to it ; on the left, the cardiac end of the stomach, the spleen, and the diaphragm. Godlee has pointed out that such an abscess, if it contain gas, may readily be mistaken for a pyopneumothorax. It may be complicated by simple effusion into the left pleura, and without actually perforating the diaphragm may give rise to an empyema. The history of preexisting abdominal symptoms will serve as an important aid to a correct diagnosis. If the fact that the abscess is below, and not above the diaphragm, be overlooked, the Surgeon may make the serious mistake of opening the healthy pleura by a posterior incision. Godlee recommends that the abscess be opened by an abdominal incision parallel with and just below the left costal margin. Operation has several times been undertaken for general peritonitis result- ing from the rupture of an ulcer of the duodenum, but with fatal results. Dean has, however, successfully treated a case of this nature at the London Hospital. The ulcer was closed with sutures, and the patient recovered, but unfortunately death occurred two months later from acute strangulation due to adhesion between the omentum and the wound in the parietes. Pylorectomy.—The possibility of removing the pylorus for cancer was first suggested by Billroth in 1877. Gussenbauer and von Winiwarter subse- quently experimentally demonstrated the possibility of removing portions of the stomach from animals. The first operation on the human subject was |)erformed by Pean in 1879 ; the patient however survived only five days. In 1880, Rydygier repeated the operation, but the patient died in a few hours. In 1881, Billroth performed the first successful operation. The patient Avas a woman aged 43 ; she made an uninterrupted recovery, and ate a mutton cutlet with the best appetite on the twentieth day after the operation. She died four months after the operation from cancer of the peritoneum and retroperitoneal lymphatic glands.