3 R 2 : INTERNAL PILES. 919 the suffering is much increased. External piles now usually make their appearance/if they have not existed before ; the mucous membrane of the rectum becomes prolapsed, and an increased secretion of thin raucus takes ■place from the anus, moistening the part and soiHng the patient's linen. Irri- tation in the neighbouring organs is frequently set up ; occasionally to so ! great an extent as to mask the original complaint, the patient referriug his principal pain and discomfort to these sympathetic disturbances. There is often a dull aching fixed pain at the lower part of the lumbar spine, and more frequently opposite the sacrum or the sacro-iliac articulation on either side ; this is sometimes very severe, perhaps runs down the thigh, or round the gi-oin ; irritability of the testicles may come on, or irritation about the neck of the bladder, causing frequent desire to micturate, and increasing the patient's sufferings by the straining that takes place. The general health now suffers ; the patient may become emaciated, and the countenance often presents a peculiarly anxious and careworn look, j The symptom, however, that first of all and most prominently fixes the patient's attention is Haemorrhage. This varies greatly in quantity ; at first i there may merely be a few drops falling after the passage of a motion, or the I cylinder of fgeces may be stained on one side by a streak or spots of blood, or the bleeding may amount to several ounces, or even pints, i The haemorrhage is connected with, and in the great majority of cases ■ dependent upon, the existence of distinct hEemorrhoidal tumours. Occasion- ' ally, however, it appears to occur when there is no distinct separate tumour : projecting above the surface of the membrane ; but in these cases there is general swelling and congestion of the mucous membrane of the lower part I of the rectum, from which the blood exudes in drops, or it may even spurt in a distinct jet from the open mouth of a blood-vessel. The bleeding is frequently preceded by an exacerbation of those symptoms that commonly accompany piles, such as a sensation of fulness, weight, and tension about the parts. But the symptoms that precede its occurrence are often much more ! imperfectly marked than is usually stated, and are frequently absent altogether. The discharge of blood may be periodical, especially in women, occurring every month, or at intervals of two, three, or six months ; and it may be remittent or intermittent. In these cases, it usually continues from three to six days, increasing up to the third or fourth day, and then lessening. When moderate in quantity and short in duration, it is often a source of I relief to the patient; but if a very large quantity be lost at one time, or if it continue for a long period, it causes great debihty ; more harm is usually done to the patient by its long continuance than by its excessive quantity at any one time. The patient may become much weakened and anaemic ; nervous headaches, pallor, palpitations, and syncope may result. In some cases the hfBmorrhage is of service in preventing disease of more important parts ; it has especially been looked upon as a safeguard from apoplexy, particularly when it occurs as a consequence of cirrhosis of the liver, or in corpulent persons who habitually live too highly. But as a rule the continued loss of blood from piles is undoubtedly injurious. Hsemorrhage from piles is sometimes vicarious with, and at other times arrests, the menstrual flow. In a case which I attended with Garrod, the patient had suffered from the haemorrhoidal flux and piles from the age of puberty. She menstruated for the first time when thirty-seven years old ; up