LIGATURE OF THE INNOMINATE. ^93 possibility, we may well hesitate to undertake so serious a proceeding. The difficulties do not consist merely in the position and relations of the vessel, but rather in the condition in which the artery and the adjacent structures may be found after the vessel is exposed. Thus, in Porter's case, the aneurism occupied the whole of the inferior posterior triangle of the neck ; as no pulsa- tion was traceable in the vessels beyond the aneurism, it was useless to attempt ligature on the distal side. On exposing the innominate it was found to be so diseased that it was uot thought desirable to pass the ligature round it. After the operation, however, the pulsation of the tumour gradually diminished, and at last ceased, its bulk also becoming less. In Key's case, in which it was impracticable to pass the ligature, it was found after death that the innominate was dilated immediately after its origin into an oblong tumour, which occupied the whole of the artery. It is remarkable that in this case, as in Porter's, inflammation seems to have taken place in the artery in consequence of the handling to which it was subjected, and that the pulsation in the sac con- sequently diminished. The difficulties of the operation arise from the depth of the vessel, from its proximity to the heart, and from the neighbourhood of large veins, which may become turgid, and a wound of which not only obscures the incision with venous blood, but is accompanied by the danger of entrance of air. The artery lies behind the sterno-clavicular articulation and the upper part of the sternum, and bifurcates at the level of the upper border of the clavicle. In front of it are the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and it is crossed near its upper part by the right inferior thyroid vein, and lower down by the left innominate. To the right side is the right innominate vein. The pneumogastric nerve is behind and to the outer side, not being in close relation with the artery. Behind the vessel are, at first the trachea, then the pleura, the trachea being now internal to the artery. The artery may be reached in the dead body by an incision starting from the sterno-clavicular articulation, and carried upwards for about three inches between the two heads of the sterno- mastoid, but this would not be justifiable in the living subject, as it does not give sufficient space. The early steps of the operation should be the same as in ligature of the lower jjart of the carotid (see p. 172). The sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles must be freely divided, and the carotid exposed as low down as possible. This vessel serves as the guide to the innominate, the finger being passed along it till the bifurcation of the main trunk can be felt. The needle is then guided by the finger, and passed round the artery from the outer Ride. It is evident that the vessel cannot be clearly exposed in this mode of operating, and the needle is therefore passed somewhat in the dark. To overcome this difficulty, Cooper removed the inner end of the clavicle and part of the sternum in both his cases, and in Jacobson's case also it was found necessary to remove the inner part of the clavicle. Even when the difficulties of exposing the artery have been overcome, its coats may be found so diseased, or its calibre so increased, that it may be undesirable or impossible to pass a ligature round it. W. a. Spencer, as the result of experiments on monkeys, recommends a median vertical incision ; the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid are retracted without being divided. This suggestion has been put into prac- tice by Coppinger and Twynam. The results of the ligature of the innominate arc in the highest decree VOL. 11. °