37° EXCISION OF JOINTS. protrudes should therefore be out off. Taulus yl-igineta says that, if a bone project, as al'ter a transverse fracture, it must be cut off. Thus it is clear that it was the practice of the ancients in compound dislocations, and in compound fractures, to resect the protruding bones. But that the practice of resection in cases of disease also was not unknown to them, is evident from a passage on fistulai in the works of Paulus iEgineta, who directs that, if the fistula terminate in a bone, and if that be not diseased, it should only be scraped ; but if it be carious, the whole diseased portion should be cut out with chisels, and, if necessary, it may have a hole bored in it with a trephine ; and a little further on he says, " the extremity of a bone near a joint, if diseased, is to be sawn ofl"; and often, if the whole of a bone, such as the ulna, radius, tibia, or the like, be diseased, it is to be taken out entire." He makes excep- tions in the case of the bones of the spine and pelvis, and the head of the femur, which he says, should not be operated on for fear of the neighbouring arteries. The practice of resection, however, fell into disuse, and seems to have been completely forgotten until the middle of the last century, when occasional notices of its adoption appear in Surgical essays. It was first employed in cases of compound fractures and dislocations of joints. In military practice, the Surgeon, in two or three instances, picked out and cut away fragments of the bones forming the wrist, elbow, shoulder, and ankle joints when shattered by gunshot. This early revival of resection involved no principle of treat- ment ; imperfect operations being had recourse to on the field of battle simply as a matter of convenience in particular cases. The first resection practised for injury in which the articular ends in com- pound dislocation were deliberately and successfully removed, appears to have occurred to Cooper of Bungay, before, or at latest about, the middle of the last century. The precise date of this case is unknown ; but Gooch writing in 1758, says that it occurred " many years ago "; that the ends of both tibia and fibula were sawn off" in a compound luxation of the ankle ; that the limb was preserved, and was so useful that the patient was able to walk and earn his livelihood. In or about the year 1758, Wainman of Shripton sawed off the lower end of the humerus in a case of compound dislocation of the elbow-joint with perfect success, the patient recovering with an arm as movable " as if nothing had ever been amiss." Waiuman's example was shortly afterwards followed by Tyre of Gloucester, who in a similar case removed two and a half inches of the lower end of the humerus. From this period, the operation of excision of the articular ends of bones in cases of compound dislocations and fractures mto joints became an estabhshed practice, and was'extensively adopted by Percy in France who, in 1794, exhibited to Sabatier nine soldiers in whom he had successfully excised the head of the humerus for gunshot injury; by Bdguer in Germany, by Hey of Leeds, and by numerous other Surgeons in this country and abroad. , ^ , .. n ^ i i,n In 1768 White of Manchester removed from a boy ot fourteen what lie believed to'be the head of the humerus, with several inches of the shaft and the patient recovered with an arm slightly shortened, but perfect in all its movements. The history of the case, however, and the draw^mgs accompany- ing it, show beyond a doubt that the joint was not implicated the ca.e being 0 acute necrosis, with separation of the upper epiphysis. White, however, one