CAUSES OF DEATH IN INTRACRANIAL ANEURISM. 183 caused 110 head symptoms; the sac was very thin, and there was much atheromatous degeneration in the vertebral arteries. Not unfrequently no symptoms occur until the rupture of the aneurism causes fatal cerebral apoplexy. In many cases, however, definite local symptoms are produced by the pressure of the aneurism on the important structures at the base of the brain. Pain is a very variable symptom, both as regards its character and its position. It may be diflFiised, or may occupy a fixed point; it maybe continuous or intermitting; it maybe increased by movement, or accompanied by peculiar sensations, as of pulsation or of opening and shutting the top of the head. The sight and hearing are often impaired. Dimness of sight, dilatation of one or both pupils, photophobia, diplopia, and loss of vision have been noticed in several of the cases recorded. Growers states that intracranial aneurisms, even of large size, are not as a rule accompanied by any associated ocular changes. Nor do they often cause consecutive changes, unless their position is such as to press upon the optic nerves ; there is then loss of vision with atrophy of the nerve recognizable by the ophthalmoscope. If the aneurism press on the cavernous sinus, there may be some fulness of the retinal veins, but this is usually only temporary, the pressure being relieved by the free communication between the ophthalmic and facial veins. Optic neuritis is rare as the result of intracranial aneurisms. Ptosis has been met with from pressure on the third nerve by aneurism of the posterior communicating artery. Buzzing noises in the ears and. deafness are not uncommon symptoms. The patient rarely loses the power of articulation and of deglutition ; impairment of these functions, however, has been met with. There may be paralysis of the side of the face, or complete hemiplegia ; or fits and epileptiform convulsions may occur. The mental condition may undergo changes indicative of chronic disease of the brain. There may be depression of spirits, listlessness, or, as was noticed in the case above related, the temper may become irritable, and the patient be garrulous or silly. Insanity has been noticed in one case. As is commonly the case in cerebral aflPections, the gastric functions are often impaired. In some cases the presence of aneurism has been detected by a loud rough or " whizzing " noise heard on the application of a stethoscope over one side of the head, and, perhaps, audible to the patient. This sign, however, exists in but few cases ; but when it does occur, it is unquestionably the most pathognomonic of all. I am not aware that it has been met with in any form of cerebral disease except intracranial aneurism. It will thus be seen that, with the exception of the whizzing noise, no special signs are afforded by aneurisms within the skull, which will enable us to dis- tinguish between the symptoms occasioned by their presence and those of other tumours of the brain, and of organic cerebral disease. Yery frequently no premonitory symptoms manifest themselves ; the patient being suddenly seized when apparently in good health, with apoplexy, which terminates rapidly in death. Causes of Death.—The most frequent cause of death in these cases is the sudden rupture of the sac and extravasation of blood into the cavity of the arach- noid and the meshes of the pia mater at the base of the brain, or into the lateral ventricles—either from the aneurism projecting into them and there giving way, or rupturing into the cavities by breaking down the intervening