IRRITABILITY OF THE BLADDER. 1119 recurrence of the calculus, so closely do the two classes of symptoms coincide in ''^Cases'however, will Idb met with now and then, in which in spite of the most careful examination and prolonged observation, no tangible cause will be found for the irritability of the bladder. • • a In the Treatment of irritability of the bladder it must be borne m mmd that this condition is not a substantive disease, but an assemblage of symptoms resulting from the influence of a great number of very various causes, which must first be removed before the bladder can recover its normal sensibility and tone When once the occasioning cause has been removed, whether that be a calculus, or gout, or prostatic disease, or a pile, such local vesical irritability as may remain may be removed by alkaUne and mucilaginous drinks. Seda- tives may be of use ; some in one case, others in another. Opium and bella- donna, either by mouth or in suppository, are amongst the best. Hyoscyamus, or Indian hemp, suits some patients ; and chloral is one of the most generally useful remedies. The diet should be carefully regulated, and warm hip-baths used frequently. In cases in which no tangible cause can be found and removed, and which prove hopelessly intractable to every means of treatment, local and constitutional, nothing can be more miserable than the state of the unfortunate victim of an " irritable bladder." Under these circumstances, much relief may be given by temporary drainage of the bladder. This may conveniently be done in the following manner, as practised by Thompson : An ordinary curved median staff is first passed into the bladder, and the patient is tied up in the lithotomy position. The Surgeon then introduces his left forefinger into the rectum and feels for the apex of the prostate. ^ He then, takes a long narrow-bladed straight bistoury, and makes an incision about one inch and a quarter long in the middle line of the perinaBum, ter- minating about three-quarters of an inch fi-om the margin of the anus. The knife is then turned with its back to the rectum and entered near the lower end of the superficial incision. Guided by the finger in the rectum, the knife is then pushed steadily on till it enters the groove of the staff near the apex of the prostate. By drawing it forwards in the groove the membranous part of the urethra is opened. The knife may now be withdrawn, cutting slightly forwards in so doing, care being taken not to wound the bulb more than can possibly be avoided. Thompson then introduces a blunt gorget-like director with a beak to run in the groove. An ordinary long steel director, or a long probe, may be used instead if this instrument be not at hand. The staff being withdrawn, the finger is gently pushed along the director into the bladder. The operation is, in fact, nothing more than the ordinary median operation for lithotomy as performed by Allarton. By careful examination of the interior of the bladder" with the finger, it may be possible to detect some cause for the symptoms, and to apply appropriate treatment. But even when no cause is detected many patients are greatly relieved or even cured by draining the bladder for a few days with a tube. In some cases of this nature an exploratory suprapubic cystotomy has been performed ; it is a more severe operation, but the opening is more conveniently placed for a thorough exploration of the bladder. Irritability of the Bladder in Boys may, as in adults, arise from a variety of causes. Among the less common is stone, but this should always be excluded, first by careful sounding lest time be lost in useless treatment of