ACUTE ARTHRITIS: SYMPTOMS. ACUTE ARTHRITIS. By Acute Arthritis is meant an acute inflammation afi^ectrng the synovial membrane and rapidly extending from it to the other structures that enter into the formation of a joint. The disease may arise primarily in the synovial membrane, or the affection of the synovial membrane may be secondary to disease beginning in the bones or in the soft parts around the joint. _ in the latter case, the symptoms characteristic of acute arthritis do not set m until the mischief has extended to the cavity of the-joint. In some forms of acute arthritis the symptoms clearly indicate that the inflammation of the synovial meuibrane precedes that of the ligaments, while in others the extension is so rapid that all the structures of the joint may seem to be affected simul- taneously. 1 1 • 1 It will be most convenient to descrihe first the symptoms and pathological chancres which are characteristic of acute arthritis from whatever cause it may arise,''and afterwards to point out the modifications of the process dependent upon its mode of origin. Symptoms.—The symptoms of acute arthritis that are most marked are the pain, heat, swelling, and peculiar position of the joint. The jjfl^wi is often severe, tensive, and throbbing : sometimes it is so acute, that the patient screams with agony ; he cannot bear the bed to be touched, the room to be shaken, or the slightest movement communicated to the limb, any attempt at examination of the joint being attended with unbearable pain. There are usually nocturnal exacerbations, and the pain is commonly referred with especial severity to one particular spot in the joint : thus it is generally felt at the inner or under side of the knee-joint, and at the outer aspect of the hip. The heat of the diseased joint is considerable, and is often accompanied by more or less superficial redness. The swelling is uniform, involving the whole of the articulation, and not projecting at certain parts of it, as when the synovial membrane alone is affected ; it is generally not very considerable, and has a soft and doughy, rather than a fluctuating feel. The position of the affected limb is peculiar, and that attitude is iiivbluntarily adopted in which the patient will have the greatest amount of ease : thus, if the knee is affected, it is semiflexed, and the hmb is rotated outwards ; if the hip, the joint is flexed and the limb abducted and rotated outwards with the knee semiflexed ; if the elbow, it is bent. Spasms or startincjs of the limb, often of a very sharp and painful character, come on at times, more particularly at night, and are amongst the most distressing symptoms in the more advanced stages of acute disorganization of a joint. Whenever the patient falls asleep, the muscles become relaxed, and the softened ligaments allow the joint to become slightly displaced ; a reflex contraction of the muscles immediately takes place and the patient wakes with a painful spasmodic jerk of the limb, inducing a feehng of alarm, that is often very distressing. The constitutional disturbance is very severe, and of an active febrile type. Having reached this stage, in some cases the symptoms gradually subside, the heat lessens, the pain loses its acute character, the swelling slowly diminishes, and recovery takes place after many weeks or months, the joint being left permanently stiffened from contraction of the inflamed ligaments, or sometimes firmly ankylosed, the articular surfaces being united by dense