189 ANEURISM OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. direct violence, or by repeated or prolonged exertion of the arm : thus they commonly occur from falls, blows upon the shoulder, or excessive fatigue of this extremity. From the fact of the aneurisms arising from external violence, we should expect to meet with them most frequently in males, and this we do in a remarkable manner. Of 120 cases collected by Poland, only 11 occurred in females, and in 4 of these instances the disease resulted from injury ; in 2 cases, both arteries were affected. The disease may be seated in any part of the vessel on the right side, though most commonly the artery is not dilated until after it has passed beyond the anterior scalenus. On the left side aneurism never occurs before the artery has emerged from the thorax ; and then, as on the right, it most commonly happens in the third part of the vessel. Sub- clavian aneurism may occur at any age above 21. It is most common in middle life ; and, according to Poland, is three times more frequent in England than in any other country. Symptoms.—An aneurism of the subclavian artery is characterised by a pulsating compressible tumour of an elongated or ovoid shape, situated at the base of the posterior triangle of the neck, immediately above the clavicle. If it be small, it will disappear behind this bone on the shoulder being raised ; as it increases in size, it fills up the whole of the space above the clavicle between the sterno-mastoid and the trapezius, often attaining a very consider- able bulk. In consequence of the pressure which it exercises on the brachial plexus of nerves there is pain, often attended with numbness, and extending down the arm and fingers, usually with some weakness of these parts. In some instances there is a spasmodic affection of the diaphragm, owing to irritation of the phrenic nerve. The external jugTilar vein is commonly distended and varicose ; cedema of the hand and arm may be present. The tumour does not increase rapidly in size, owing to its being tightly compressed by the surrounding parts ; and, as the disease never extends inwards, it does not interfere with the trachea or oesophagus. In some cases it has been known to extend downwards and backwards, so as to implicate the pleura and the summit of the lung. Diagnosis.—This is usually easy, although an enlarged gland or chronic abscess lying over the third part of the artery may at first sight be mistaken for an aneurism of the vessel. When the disease affects the first part of the artery it may present features closely resembling those of an aneurism of the innominate or of the root of the carotid. Under these circumstances the condition of the pulse in the branches of the carotid may aid the diagnosis, for it is unlikely to be affected when the aneurism is limited to the subclavian. Mayo mentions a case in which an exostosis of the first rib pushed forward the subclavian artery in such a way as to cause it to simulate an aneui'ism, and eventually to arrest the pulsation in it. ' Results.—As a subclavian aneurism increases in size, it may become diffused, and burst either externally or into the pleural sac. A spontaneous cure has more frequently occurred in this than in any other external aneurism. Treatment.—The treatment of subclavian aneurism is in the highest degree unsatisfactory. A fair trial should, in all cases, be given to complete rest and restricted diet according to the plan described on page 118. In one recorded case a subclavian aneurism was cured by Valsalva's treatment in eighteen months This constitutional treatment may be supplemented in suitable cases by applyin(r