FXGISIOA' OF TONGUE: WHITEHEAD'S METHOD. 693 on the ton5?ne (Fig. 748). By working this slowly, and not heating the platinum wire beyond a red heat, the tongue may be removed without the loss of a drop of blood. The galvanic cautery cuts more rapidly than the ordinary instrument, and it was at first hoped that its use would considerably simphfy the operation. Experience has, however, shown that the charred surface left by the passage of the hot wire, heals more slowly, with more discharge and sloughing than that left by the ecraseur. Secondary heemorrhage has, moreover, occurred in a considerable number of cases after its use. It was urged as another advantage attending its employment, that a charred surface offers a barrier to the absorption of septic matter, but the fallacy of this idea has been demonstrated by experimental investigations on animals. The instrument has therefore been abandoned almost universally. Excision with Scissors.—In 1877, "W. Whitehead of Manchester success- fully removed the whole tongue through the mouth with scissors, and since then the operation has been repeated in a large number of cases with excellent results. The operation is conducted as follows : The mouth is efficiently gagged, and a stout ligature passed through the tip of the tongue. The assistant in charge of this is directed to maintain throughout the operation a steady traction upwards and forwards. The operator commences by dividing all the attachments of the tongue to the jaw and the anterior pillars of the fauces. The tongue can now be drawn freely out of the mouth, and the subsequent stages of the operation are thus rendered much easier and safer. The base of the tongue is next cut across with scissors, until the entire tongue is separated in the plane of the inferior border of the jaw as far back as the safety of the epiglottis will permit. Whitehead originally advised that this should be done by a series of successive short snips, but he now cuts more boldly until the vicinity of the main vessels is reached, only stopping if it is necessary to twist a spurting artery. The position of the lingual vessels being very constant, an experienced assistant can often pick them up with forcipressure forceps before they are divided. If not, the divided artery will spurt out of the mouth and can readily be secured. Before completing the removal of the tongue a single loop of silk is passed by a long needle through the remains of the glosso- epiglottidean fold of mucous membrane, as a means of drawing forwards the floor of the mouth should secondary haemorrhage take place. This may be withdrawn on the second day. The haemorrhage in this method of operating is much less than would be expected. Whitehead states that in two cases he removed the whole tongue without twisting a single vessel; this, however, is quite exceptional. In most cases the Unguals and a few smaller vessels require torsion. In 18i)l Whitehead had removed the whole tongue with scissors in 66 cases with only 3 deaths, giving a mortality of 4-5 per cent.