DISEASES OF, THE TESTIS AND CORD. 1238 the sac of tlie tumca vaginalis ; but in other instances it forms distinct cvs either m connexion with the testis or upon the cord. It will he convenie to descrihe hydrocele of the testis and hydrocele of the cord separately HYDiiOCELE OF THE TESTIS.—1. Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis or Vaginal Hydrocele, is the ordinary form of the disease. It may occur as' the result of acute orchitis, the inflammation of the testis causing the eflpLisioQ of a quantity of fluid into its serous investment (p. 1234). This, however ig not the kind of hydrocele that is commonly met with ; the fluid so poured out as the result of active inflammation usually becoming absorbed as the part recover their normal condition. The true or primary hydrocele occurs as chronic disease, without any signs of inflammation of the testicle, or, at most with but slight tenderness of that organ. It is most frequently met with in individuals about the middle period of life, commonly without any evident exciting cause, either constitutional or local. It is very common in men who have lived long in warm climates, and Fayrer considers it in some cases to have a malarial origin. Hydrocele is also very frequently seen in infants when but a few days old, and may very possibly be present at the time of birth. The Symptoms of hydrocele are tolerably evident. The disease begins with a degree of swelling and weight about the testis ; the swelling may at first be soft, but after a while becomes hard and tense ; or it may be so from the commencement. There is no impulse in it when the patient coughs. What- ever its original condition, the tumour soon becomes oval or pyriform in shape, being narrowed above, rounded and broad below ; it is smooth and uniformly tense and hard; ic usually fluctuates, but may have merely a semi-elastic feel. It reaches upwards along the cord towards the external abdominal ring, which, however, is rarely invaded by it, and the cord is usually distinctly to be felt above the upper limit of the tumour. Most commonly the size varies from that of a goose's egg to a small cocoa-nut; but sometimes it may attain a considerably greater magnitude than this, and will then cause much inconvenience, as it reaches up close to the external ring, and drags over the penis, causing that organ to be buried in it, so as to interfere with micturition. Gibbon, the historian, had an enormous hydrocele^ which was tapped by Cline, who drew off six quarts of fluid. The most characteristic sign of hydrocele is its translucency. This may always be detected by the Surgeon grasping the posterior part of the tumour with one hand, so as to put the integuments of the fore part on the stretch,, then placing the edge of the other hand along the most prominent part of the swelling, and having a lighted candle held close behind. Another very simple and efficient method of determining the translucency is by putting the- end of a stethoscope against the tumour, and looking down the tube against the light. If the walls of the sac be thick, or the fluid dark, the transmission Fig. 943.—Double Hydrocele, extending through the external abdominal ring and simulating hernia.