DIFFICULTIES DURING LATERAL LITHOTOMY. 1059 into the loose areolar tissue between the rectum and the bladder. The urethra eng ope^^^^^^ escapes; and the burgeon introduces his fingeiwn^^^^^^^ d tinct cavit;, which he believes to be the interior of the bladder, but ^ h d ? n ttns, bui the recto-vesical space. The liability to the occ~ atal accident is materially lessened by injecting the bladder ^% .ith te^^^^ ,vater, by which it is steadied and brought bwer down, ^ut n younS bo^^^^ lithotomy is from this cause always an anxious operation. It falls to t e ot 0 but few Surgeons of experience in lithotomy to pass through an active tfesslTnallifewLut meeting with difficulty and -iety m opera m^^^^^ bovs • and when such an untoward accident occurs, those will be the most charitable in their judgment of others, who have themselves had the mos experience in the opemtion and have had most frequently to encounter its intrinsic difficulties. , . , i j.- i In order then, to obviate the special dangers that have ]ust been mentioned as likely to occur in lateral lithotomy in boys, the following pomts should be attended to :— , i? i. • i 1 The bladder should be injected with two or three ounces of tepid watei •> The knife should not be too narrow, as it has to make an opening ot sufficient size to admit the forefinger of the operator in the child as in the adult Its point, when it has entered the groove of the staff, should be kept very firmly pressed against its side, and carried somewhat upwards instead ot straight forwards. 3 ""When the knife is laid aside and the Surgeon proceeds to pass his faiiger into the bladder, he will find the following manoeuvre facilitate this step of the operation very greatly, and lessen materially the danger of pushing the neck of the bladder before him : Placing the nail of the left index finger in the crroove of the staff, he should not carry it along the convexity of this instru- ment but, sliding it over to the concave side, gently work his way along this into the bladder. In doing so, he passes the finger between the roof of the urethra, which is a fixed part of the canal, and the staff, instead of between this and the floor of the urethra, which is mobile and yielding. There is the additional advantage that, by pressing down the staff as the finger goes above it, the urethra and neck of the bladder are somewhat dilated. C. Heath recommends the following plan, which will be found most efficient : As soon as the knife is withdrawn he inserts a strong director with a handle like that of a staff set at a convenient angle. This is passed along the groove of the staff like the conductor in median lithotomy. The staff is then with- drawn and the finger passed above the director, which is at the same time pressed downwards. 4. As soon as the finger enters the bladder and the staff is withdrawn, the calculus should be fixed with its point against the floor of the bladder, where it may then be seized easily by the forceps. Difficulties during Lateral Lithotomy.—The difficulties before and during the operation are three-fold : 1, in T'inding the Stone ; 2, in Entering the Bladder ; and 3, in Seizing and Extracting the Calculus. 1. Difficulty in Finding the Stone, either by the staff or by the sound, may exist before commencing the operation ; and sometimes it is impossible to find the stone, although its presence may have been distinctly ascertained a few days previously. In these circumstances, the Surgeon must on no account be tempted to proceed with the operation ; but, after a carefully conducted 3 Y 2