TREATMENT OF FILES. 981 them to be bruised or otherwise injured. When it occurs in internal piles, it most commonly aifects those that are of a columnar or longitudinal shape, and least frequently the globular variety. ' Suppuration is not an uncommon termination, if acute inflammation have been set up in internal piles, more especially in those that have previously been coagulated. When the abscess is discharged, small coagula escape with its contents, the cavity granulates, and becomes obliterated, and the pile is cured. The pus in other cases may burrow in the submucous tissue, and, by bursting externally, give rise to a fistula in ano. Sphacelus.—In some cases, when there is much elongation of the mucous membrane from which the pile springs, prolapsus of that membrane and of the piles may take place ; and, this being grasped by the contraction of the sphincter, the same effect may be produced as if a ligature were applied. The j tumour becomes much swollen, hard, livid, and tense ; there are much constir I tutional disturbance and restlessness ; but after a few days the part that is constricted sloughs and drops off, and all the symptoms are relieved. Diagnosis.'—The diagnosis must be regarded from two points of view 1st, as concerns the HcemorrhoidaJ Tumours; and 2dly, with reference to the Hmnorrhoidal Flux. 1. Haemorrhoidal Tumours must be diagnosed from prolapsus recti, polypus of the rectum, epithelioma of the anus, and condylomata about the anus; From partial prolapsus the diagnosis is not always easy ; indeed, the two conditions are so generally associated, that it is of little moment to attempt it. In complete prolapsus examination will suffice to distinguish the membranous wall of the intestine, forming a smooth, rounded, and somewhat lobulated annular protuberance, from the isolated tumours of piles. In polypus the history of the. case, the pedunculated and solitary character of the tumour, its large size, aud comparatively slight tendency to haemorrhage, will enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. Epithelioma is easily recognized by its hardness and by I its deep infiltration of surrounding parts. In any case of doubt, a digital • examination of the rectum will make its nature evident. From condylomata the diagnosis is easy : the soft, flat, and wart-like character of these growths, , their history, and their occurrence at other points, as the perineum, scrotum! I vulva, and buttocks, will enable the Surgeon to distinguish them without any ' difficulty. 2. The Haemorrhoidal Flux must be distinguished from other intestinal haemorrhages.—This may be done by attention to the character of the blood, i which will generally indicate its source. When it comes from piles it is liquid', of a more or less florid colour ; not unfrequently it is quite bright, staining or coating the faeces rather than being mixed up with them. When, on the I contrary, the blood is poured out at some higher point in the intestinal canal ■ than the usual seat of hasmorrhoids, it is of a dark tarry character, mixed up ! with liquid fseces either in a diffused form or in small black coagula, and no fresh or bright blood will be visible. Digital exploration of the rectum in i cases of piles, and the presence of symptoms indicating the existence of mischief at a higher part of the intestine than the anus in cases of melsena will also serve to point to the source of the blood. ' _Treatment.—In conducting the treatment of a case of piles, that Surgeon will succeed best who looks upon the disease not as a local affection merely requiring manual interference, but as a symptom, or rather an effect, of remote