870 INGUINAL HERNIA. were urgent, this was cut down upon, the anterior wall of the canal was in cised, and the tunica vaginalis, much distended with fluid, was laid open when a small knuckle of intestine was found lying at its upper part, very tiehtlv constricted by the inner ring. But in some cases the diagnosis is not so easy the whole tumour lying in the canal feels smooth, elastic, and uniform, so that no examination can enable the Surgeon to say with certainty whether the tumour is an inflamed testis surrounded by a hydrocele, or whether there is a loop of intestine lying above an undescended testis. In such cases as these however, the Surgeon is guided in the course he should adopt by the symptoms' If these indicate strangulation of intestine, he should, without further delay! cut dowTi on the tumour and examine its nature. Encysted Hernia of the Tunica Vaginalis, or Infantile Hernia.— In this variety the hernia does not enter the tunica vaginalis, but forms a separate sac, which passes down behind the processus vaginalis; the latter, although its communication with the peritoneum is obliterated, remains open along the greater part of its length (Fig. 807). Should an operation be under- taken in such a case, the tunica vaginalis will be opened first, and altogether behind this will be found the hernial sac, three separate layers of peritoneum requiring division before the contents of the hernia are exposed (Fig, 807). In some instances the hernial sac bulges so prominently into the tunica vaginalis that it appears as if descending into it from above—a condition from which the name " encysted " has been derived. According to another view of the nature of encysted hernia, the funicular portion of the tunica vaginalis is partly obstructed by a septum, or by being converted into filamentous tissue, but in such a way as to leave a pouch above, which is Fig. SOT.—Infantile Hernia, protruded dowu iuto the tunica vaginalis by the hernia entering it. According to Lockwood there is no evidence to support such a view. In many cases it is possible to trace a distinct band which connects the lower end of the sac of an infantile hernia to the upper end of the testicle. Lockwood has shown that this band contains plain muscular tissue, which probably represents a remnant of the gubernaculum testis, and plays an important part in drawing down the hernial sac. The distinction between an infantile and an acquired hernia can hardly be made except during an operation undertaken for its cure or for the relief of strangulation. Interstitial Hernia.—In some cases of inguinal hernia there is, in addition to the sac which occupies the inguinal canal, a more or less extensive pouch lying between the layers of the abdominal wall. To such a hernia the term " interstitial " has been applied. In very rare instances the diverticulum of the sac has been situated immediately external to the parietal peritoneum. This variety has been called " properitoucal" by Kronlein, and the pouch of the hernial sac has been found in the iliac fossa, or in front of the bladder. Its existence may be quite unsuspected, and death has resulted from the strangulation of intestine in the deeply placed diverticulum of the sac. In the more common forms of interstitial hernia the sac extends either between the internal and external oblique muscles, or lies superficial to the latter. The hernia then causes a swellinc: of the abdominal wall above the inguinal canal.