f232 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND GOliD. latecl lieruia is obvious. Wheu, liowever, as rarely happens, the aff'ee testicle is in its normal position, the case is more likely to be mistaken for one of acute inflammation of the organ. Of 18 recorded cases in whicli the diagnosis made is stated, 11 were thought to be strangulated hernia, 2 inflaui- niation of the testicle, and in 5 only the true nature of the condition wa« suspected or definitely recognized. T3iyant and others have pointed out that the vomiting is rarely so severe or persistent as in hernia, whilst the geneul symptoms of strangulation of intestine are absent. The chief difficulty''woul therefore consist in distinguishing the case from one of strangulated hernia i which the sac contains omentum or in which the whole lumen of the bow is not obstructed. The rapid development of a swelling in these cases is due to the sudde engorgement of the testis with blood, the gland being described as havin the appearance of a ripe plum. There may also be an effusion of bloo stained fluid into the tunica vaginalis. Treatment.—In one case recorded by Gifford Xash the condition w diagnosed an hour and a half after the appearance of the first symptom and th half twist of the cord was undone by manipulation, the swelling of the testis an epididymis disappearing almost at once. As a general rule, however, the ca^ is not seen until such treatment is impossible, even if the diagnosis be clear An incision is therefore necessary, and removal of the aifected testicle isf probably always the best course to adopt. If the testicle be in the in- guinal canal the necessity of removal is obvious, but even if the testicle be in its normal position and the torsion can be relieved, atrophy will probably follow, as in Bryant's case, in which this treatment was adopted, or actual sloughing may take place. It is interesting to note that in Xash's case, mentioned above, the testicle subsequently became considerably smaller than the other. . Treatment of Misplaced Testis.—No treatment is required for a testicle retained in the inguinal canal if the patient is an infant and the condition is not complicated with hernia. When, however, the patient is ■older—preferably between eight and ten years—an operation may be under- taken with the object of transplanting the gland into the scrotum, and thus relieving the inconvenience of a testicle in the groin, and possibly preventing its subsequent atrophy. The difficulties of the operation are twofold. In the first place it may be found difficult or even impossible to free the testicle sufficiently to allow it to be drawn downwards into the scrotum ; the vas ■deferens is long and lax, but the vessels may be short, and firm adhesions present. Secondly, when the testicle has been brought down into the scrotum the difficulty is to keep it there. The operation consists in making an incision over the inguinal canal and extending it downwards to the scrotum. The testicle is exposed and carefully separated from the surrounding structures, great care being taken not to •damage the vas. As a rule the tunica vaginalis is found open into the peritoneum, and must be divided above the testicle. The testicle can, as a Tule, now be gently drawn into the scrotum, the tissues of which are separated ..to receive it. Various methods have been devised with the object to keeping the testicle in its new position. The simplest consists in passing a single silk suture through the tissues at the bottom of the scrotum and the tunica albuginea. This, however, often