DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 470 CHAPTER LI. DISEASES OF THE SPINE. SPINA BIFIDA. Spina Bifida is a congenital malformation of the vertebrae in which there is an incomplete development of a certain number of the nem'al arches. Through the cleft thus left the contents of the spinal canal protrude, forming a tumour of variable size projecting in the middle line of the back. In extremely rave cases a cleft condition of the bodies has been met with, the tumour then projecting forwards into the thorax, pelvis, or abdomen. Such cases are merely pathological curiosities, and cannot be recognized during life. Our knowledge of the pathology and treatment of spina bifida has been greatly increased by the report published in 1885 by a Committee of the Clinical Society of London. lb is by no means an uncommon malformation, for in 1882, 647 deaths occurred in consequence of it in England alone. Symptoms.—The tumour in spina bifida is usually oval, its long diameter corresponding to the axis of the spine. It is most often sessile, but occa- sionally, when the cleft implicates only a few neural arches, it is peduncu- lated. In size it commonly varies from that of a walnut to that of an orange, but in rare cases it may equal or even exceed that of a foetal head. Very irequently the tumour presents a longitudinal furrow, with a depression indicating the point at which the protruded cord is in contact with the sac. In some cases it is lobulated, having an imperfect septum stretching across it. In a few recorded cases more than one tumour has been present. The skin covering it is in rare cases normal throughout ; but far more commonly the natural integument surrounds the base only, the central parts of the tumour being covered by a thin glistening bluish-white membrane, presenting a certain degree of translucency. The central part usually becomes congested or inflamed from friction of the clothes and the irritation of urine, and as the tumour increases ulceration commonly takes place ; this may end in perfora- tion of the sac, which is almost inevitably followed by septic spinal meningitis and death. On examining the tumour it will be found to be tense though elastic when the child is held in the upright position, and to diminish when the child is laid flat on its face. It becomes more tense during forced expira- tion, as during crying, and less so during inspiration. Fluctuation is usually very evident, and in some cases the bulk of the tumour may be distmctly lessened by steady pressure, while at the same time increased tension may be recognized at the anterior foutanelle, thus demonstrating the connexion of the sac with tlie subarachnoid space. Manipulation is not usually painful unless the skin is ulcerated. Spina bifida may be met with in any portion of the vertebral column ; but by far the most frequent situation is the lumbo-sacral region, which is the part of the spinal canal which closes last in foetal life. Over 50 per cent, of