TUBERCULOUS PERITONITIS. 927 in the peritoneal cavity, providing a, free escape for any which may subsequently form, and in some instances remedying the cause of the inflammation, as by the closure of a perforation in the bowel. On account of the many varieties of acute peritonitis which are met with, and the diversity of its causes, it is impossible to speak of the results in general terms. Thus, whereas the treatment of a perfectly locahzed purulent peritonitis by drainage is ofien eminently satisfactory, the number of cases in which the diffuse septic form has been successfully dealt with is very small. Treves, who has recently brought the subject prominently before the profession, has pointed out the fallacy of general statistics in which cases of all varieties are grouped together. Thus of 119 cases of generalized purulent peritonitis recorded by Krecke only (58 died ; the greater number of the recoveries, however, occurred among the cases in which the cause of the peritonitis was unknown, or in which it started in the vermiform appendix ; all the cases associated with hernia or. with per- foration of the stomach died. It has already been stated in Yol. I. p. 87(!, that as a general rule operation should at once be undertaken in cases of peritonitis following injuries, and usually due to severe damage of one of the viscera. The same may be said of that form which occasionally results from operations on the abdomen, includ- ing those for hernia, although the hope of cure is very small. The results of operation for diffuse peritonitis following perforation of the stomach and intestines has been most unsatisfactory, but it gives the patient the only chance of life, and is therefore justifiable unless absolutely forbidden by the patient's condition. Those rare cases in which diffuse purulent peritonitis arises without any obvious cause, sometimes during the course of an acute specific disease, may be similarly treated. Laparotomy for perforative peritonitis in typhoid fever has been attended with almost uniformly fatal results. Louis, in 1890, was able to collect 11 cases, but in some of these the evidence upon which the diagnosis was made is by no means satisfactory. Two cases recovered : one in which Mikulicz closed a perforation of the ileum with sutures, and another treated by Escher, in which the disease was thought to be typhoid, and in which perforation of the appendix with general peritonitis was present. It cannot reasonably be hoped that this treatment will ever be attended with much success, and the only hopeful cases are those in which an unhealed ulcer perforates durino- convalescence. In dealing with a case of circumscribed purulent peritonitis free drainage must be established through a suitably placed incision, care being taken ntt to break down the adhesions by which the collection is shut off from the general cavity of the peritoneum. In cases of diffuse purulent peritonitis irrigation, as described at page 819, should be carried out, and then the cavitv having been dried with sponges, a drainage tube is inserted. In cases where adhesions have already formed shutting off various collections of pus or turbid serous fluid, these must be gently separated to allow the fluid to escape In no case should carbolic acid or perchloride of mercury lotions be introduced into the peritoneum, as they are dangerous if used in an efficient antiseptic strengoh. In some cases iodoform has been used with advantage e tht applied in the form of powder or as an emulsion (Vol I p 2G4) Tuberculons Peritonitis.-The first instances in which this disease wp,« successfully treated by laparotomy were cases in which the abdomen opened