"38 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. i CHAPTER LXX. —♦— DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. The prostate is subject to Acute and Chronic Inflammation, to Hypertrophy and occasionally to Atrophy, Malignant Disease, Tubercle, and the formatiou of Calculi. PROSTATITIS. Acute Inflammation of the Prostate, or Prostatitis, Tcry rarely occurs as an idiopathic affection. When met with, it is usually the result of gonorrhoea, or of the use of instruments, more especially in middle-aged men. The Symptoms are, deeply-seated dull pain, with heat and weight in the perinajum, a frequent desire to pass urine, and very great and spasmodic pain accompanying the act; in fact, the irritability of the neck of the bladder is perhaps the most distressing feature in the disease. These symptoms are, however, common to various inflammatory affections of the urinary organs, and they can be distinctly referred to the inflamed prostate only by rectal exploration. On introducing the finger into the gut, the prostate will be found much enlarged and exquisitely tender. The patient often suffers considerably from the pressure of the inflamed organ upon the rectum during defaecation. The Treatment should be directed to the prevention of suppuration. The perineum must be well leeched ; warm hip-baths and poppy fomentations assiduously employed ; and salines administered. In this way, the formation of abscess within or around the prostate may, in many cases, be prevenU^d. Morphia suppositories may be used to relieve pain. Prostatic Abscess may form as a consequence of acute inflam- mation, and in this way it is not very unfrequently a complication of gonorrhoea ; or it may occur with comparatively little antecedent inflamma- tion—as sometimes happens in pyaemia, or if the organ be accidentally bruised during lithotrity. In these cases, abscess perhaps as frequently forms in the areolar envelope as in the organ itself. Idiopathic suppuration of the prostate, irrespective of any of the above causes, is of rare occm'rence ; but it may occur in individuals of broken health, the matter then usually accumu- lating in large quantity, and discharging itself into the bladder. Symptoms.—When inflammation of the prostate terminates in abscess, rigors, with strangury, and perhaps retention of urine, occur. In many cases the perinseum becomes brawny ; in others, tenderness of the gland and deep fluctuation may be felt through the rectum. When left to itself, the abscess most usually gives' way into the urethra or neck of the bladder ; but it may, especially when occurring in the prostatic capsule, open externally into the perinEeum, or even into the rectum. In many cases, the abscess presenting on the urethral surface of the prostate is burst during the introduction of the