CLUB-FOOT. Deformities of the Bones of the Lower Limb from Rickets.—1 he distortions of the bones of the leg arising from rickets have already been alluded to in the chapter on diseases of bone (p. 303). The condition which usnally requires treatment is that in which the lower part of the tibia is strongly curved in a direction forwards and outwards, or less commonly directly forwards. In young children operation is very rarely required, and the local treatment should consist in preventing walking by the application of a well-padded thin wooden splint from the knee to below the foot and in daily douching and rubbing. By these means the increase of the deformity may be prevented and a most satisfactory result obtained, the curvature being gradually lessened by the moulding action of the muscles. If, however, the deformity be extreme, it may be safely treated by snapping through the soft rickety bone under chloroform and fixing the limb on a straight splint. This treatment is, however, rarely required. In older children osteotomy of the tibia may be required if the deformity is sufficient to cause disfigurement and interference with the use of the limb. In the majority of cases it is sufficient to divide the tibia at the point of greatest curvature with an osteotome or fine saw, through a short incision along its anterior border. The removal of a wedge-shaped piece of bone is a more formidable proceeding, and is rarely required except when the curvature is very marked. If necessary, the same bone may be divided in more than one place, either simultaneously, or the second operation may be deferred till the patient has recovered from the first. In complicated cases of knock-knee with rickety curves of the femur and tibia, Macewen has performed as many as ten osteotomies simultaneously on the same patient. If proper antiseptic pre- cautions are adopted, the danger of these operations is very slight, as may be seen from the result of Macewen's practice (p. 544). • Club-foot. Talipes.—The deformities classed together under the name of club-foot or talipes may be either congenital or acquired, and apart from their causation they are divided according to the position which the foot assumes. There are four primary varieties of club-foot, and two secondary ones. Of the four primary forms, in two the deformity is in the antero-posterior direc- tion, in the sense of flexion and of extension : Talipes Equinus, in w^hioh the heel is drawn up and the toes pointed downwards (Fig. 645) ; and its antithesis. Talipes Calcaneus, in which the heel is pointed downwards and the foot and toes drawn up (Fig. 646). In the remaining two forms the deformity is lateral, the foot being adducted and twisted inwards in Talipes Varus (Fig. 647), and abducted and twisted outwards in Talipes Valgus (Fig. 648). These ibur primary forms of club-foot correspond with and are dependent on a permanent condition of one or other of the four simple move- ments of which the foot is susceptible at the ankle-joint. Besides these four primary forms, there are two secondary varieties of club- foot : Talipes Equino-varus, in which the heel is raised and the foot drawn inwards ; and Talipes Calcaneo-valgus, in which the heel is drawn down and the foot turned out. The association of Talipes Equinus and Varus has been explained by supposing that it is due to contraction of the muscles supplied by the internal popliteal nerve, especially the gastrocnemius and soleus