I004 SJ^COSDAJiY OF THE URINARY ORGANS. be iucluded under the name of "catheter fpvf.i-" of^«,. fi.. r • ^- chronic .eptioa3,„ia and ppo„i,, and all le^o el, sut^.: ,1'; are unfavourable symptoms. Treatment.-Prevention is of course first to be aimed at. No patient should therefore be submitted to an operation on the urinary or.an excen in cases of necessity, without a careful examination of the whole'day's urin as to specific gravity, the presence and quantity of albumen, and the micro- scopic appearances. If possible, the temperature should be observed night and morning for two or three days. If any suspicion arise as to the conditL of the kidneys, that operation should be selected, when practicable, which gives rise to least irritation. Soft instruments should be employed instead of metal, and a sufficient interval allowed between their use. Above all any treatment calculated to cause cystitis, or to give rise to decomposition of the urine, should be avoided. As there can be no doubt that the causes of decomposition are often introduced into the bladder by catheters or other instruments, these should be kept scrupulously clean and be washed before and after use m carbolic lotion (1 in 40) ; they should be greased with carbolic acid and oil (1 to 10). If decomposition already exist in the urine, it should It possible be arrested by washing out the bladder with some antiseptic, for which purpose quinine and diluted sulphuric acid, in the proportion of gr. ij. and m. ij. to an ounce of water will be found very efficacious ; or, better still, 10 grains of iodoform to 4 ounces of water, and ^ss. of mucilage. If the cause of the renal mischief be stricture of the urethra or stone, some operation must of course be undertaken ; but if the temperature be elevated, or there be other signs of renal disease, it should be delayed until an attempt has been made by rest and other remedies to bring the kidneys into a healthy state. If after a few days no improvement be seen, and it seem probable that the disease is kept up by the presence of the stone or stricture, further delay is useless ; and, choosing the least severe and irritating procedure, the Surgeon must operate at once. The treatment of well-marked interstitial nephritis is extremely unsatisfac- tory. If there be any tenderness in the loins, dry cupping may be of service. The bowels should be well acted on by purgatives, and the skin by hot-air baths, to relieve the kidneys as much as possible. Heroic operations under- taken during acute nephritis in the hope of removing the cause, are almost always, if not invariably, fatal. Quinine and opium have been recommended for the prevention of the rigors that frequently follow catheterism or other operations on the urinary organs. Opium is probably of service, but must be given with great caution if any symptoms of ura3mic poisoning exist; but quinine has not, according to most who have tried it, proved of any use. A pure milk diet will usually be found the best in all cases if the patient can take it ; stimulation must be regulated on general principles. Pyaemia and Septicaemia in Diseases of the Urinary Organs.— These conditions are not uncommonly the cause of death after operations