TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE TESTICLE. 1253 ,f it be a source of much inconvenience to the patient, it must be removed If accompanied by hydrocele the tunica vaginalis must be tapped, but no ,rcount should injection of iodine be resorted to. If abscesses form, they must be opened. When a fungus has protruded, means must be taken to repress or remove this, lest it go on to complete destruction of the testis. If it be ot .mall size, the best plan will be to sprinkle it with iodoform, and to strap it t iohtly down with a piece of lint and strapping. If it be larger, it may be sheaved off, and the cut surface then dressed with some antiseptic application; rare being taken during cicatrization to repress the granulations below the level of the surrounding integument by strapping and pressure. Syme recom- mended that the pressure should be effected by the integument of the part ;_an elliptical incision being made round the fungus and the edges of the opemng m the skin through which it protrudes pared away, the scrotal integuments are freely separated by dissection from their subjacent connexions, and brought I .^crether over the protruding mass and secured by sutures. This operation I have practised with success. Should the fungus be of very large size, so as to include within itself the whole or greater part of the structure of the testis, it may not be possible to save any of that organ ; and in these circumstances it is better to remove the whole gland ; if left it could never be of any service, and would continue slowly to suppurate. Tuberculous Disease of the Testicle, although occasionally met with in individuals apparently strong and healthy, ' usually occurs in those of a feeble or cachectic constitution, most frequently in early manhood, l)Qt occasionally in advanced hfe or childhood, and, although often associated with phthisis, it may occur without any evidence of tubercle in other organs. It is very common to find both glands affected, but the disease is usually more advanced in one than in the other. In some cases it arises apparently as a sequence of gonorrhoeal epididymitis, or there may be a history of some injury to the testicle. The disease almost invariably commences in the epididymis, which becomes swollen, indurated, and slightly tender. The globus minor is generally affected before the globus major. As the disease progresses, it spreads upwards along the vas deferens until it may reach the prostate and vesiculse seminales, and forwards through the mediastinum testis into the body of the gland. In some rare cases, it is said to commence in the body of the gland. The progress of the disease is usually slow, but it may go on rapidly to almost complete destruction of the testis. In a well-marked case the following conditions will be found. The testicle is moderately enlarged, but on examination this enlargement will be found to be chiefly in the epididymis, which can be felt as an irregular, craggy, nodulated mass, half surrounding the body of the gland in the form of a crescent situated at its posterior aspect. In the hard mass, which often considerably exceeds the body Fig. 950.—Tuberculous Disease of Testicle. The epididymis is completely converted into a caseous mass. The disease has invaded the upper end of the body, in which a' few sei^arate tubercles are also seen.