'^66 DISEASES OF THE VRETURA. Complications of Gonorrhcea.-aonorrhoea, when acute or virulent seldom runs its course without local complications of some kind the result of the propagation of the inflammation to neighbouring parts, often of considerabl severity, and occasionally even hazardous to life :-such as chordee phimosifi sympathetic bubo, perimeal abscess, irritability of the bladder, retention of urine, ha3morrhagc from the urethra, &c. Many of these complications present no special features, but require to be treated on general principles, without reference to their specific cause. Others demand more special management and these we may briefly consider here. ' Inflammation of the Lymphatics of the Penis may occur, stretching along the sides and dorsum of the penis in the form of hard threadlike lines with much redness and oedema of the integuments, and general swelling of the organ, the glans in these cases often assuming a turgid aspect and a dull brick-rcd colour. This condition is a very serious one, as it may lead to one of two consequences, or both may ensue, viz., inflammation and suppuration of the inguinal glands, or blood-poisoning. It is the latter result that drives rise to the most serious constitutional effects in gonorrhoea, closely resembling the less severe forms of pyaemia. Chordee, or painful erection of the penis, with twist of the organ, coming on at night, is often a most distressing and troublesome symptom. It is usually best relieved by the application of cold to the part, and the administration at bedtime of a pill composed of gr. j. of opium with gr. v. of camphor. Kicord recommends a suppository of camphor and opium, gr. x. of camphor and gr. j. of the watery extract of opium, to be introduced into the rectum an hour before bedtime, as the best means of removing the tendency to chordee. Full •doses of bromide of potassium are sometimes of use. Acute Prostatitis, presenting all the symptoms described on p. 1138, and in rare cases terminating in abscess, is an occasional complication. It must be treated as there described. Chronic Prostatitis is rather a sequel of gonorrhoea than a complication. Its symptoms and treatment have already been described (p. 11.39). Inflammation of the Neck of the Bladder with Strangury and Dysuria is not an uncommon complication. It arises from exposure to cold or wet during a clap, and occasionally irom the use of too strong injections. The discharge may beconie less when the symptoms of the deeper inflammation set in. When the neck of the bladder only is inflamed, the urine remains acid, and contains but a slight excess of mucus. Frequency of micturition, often excessive, and accompanied by the most severe pain, forms the most prominent symptom. Pus and blood may escape with the last few drops of urine. It is distinguished from acute prostatitis by rectal examination, when absence of prostatic swelling and tenderness will be recognized. The inflammation in many cases is less acute, especially when it comes on in the third or fourth week of the clap. In the acute form leeches to the perinseum, hot baths and fomentations, and full doses of Dover's powder, or of hyoscyamus and potash, will afford much relief. If the pain is very severe, a morphia suppository must be inserted into the rectum. In more chronic cases the administration of the perchloride of iron, with belladonna suppositories, will be beneficial. Cystitis, of an acute character, may occur by the extension of the urethral inflammation. The urethral discharge diminishes as the symptoms of cystitis come on, or ceases, as in epididymitis ; the patient is seized with intolerable