MALKNANT DISEASE OF IHE LARYNX. 737 „„3 performed by Billroth in 1873. The patient snrvived the operation, but ;jir, «+W months from recurrence of the disease. K V^Te^o^ of the Larynx, usually consisting in the removal of , inJ^ ^yi™ ila^^^ *ith the corresponding arytenoid cartilage has been M Prl n case in which the extent and situation of the growth render f vPiTn nnnlcessary The operation must he carried out on the compM^ excision ; hut care must be tal^n to ;rsufficiently widely around the disease to give the patient a chance of "Sr-During recent years a considerable number of statistics have ,eeTpublished dealing with the results of complete -^.P-^- ^^Xch wer'e l,vvnx In 1890 Kraus collected 240 cases of excision, 160 of which were omplefce and 80 partial. Of the 160 complete excisions, 142 were undertaken oTcarcinoma. Of these 63 died without recurrence, 57 withm eight weeks nd 8 within a year ; 38 were known to have recurrence within one year, and at later periods ; 24 were free from recurrence after periods of more than one vear 13 being after more than two years, and one, a case of Gussenbauer s, after eight years; 10 had been operated, upon too recently to be °mhe 80 partial excisions, 66 were performed for carcinoma. Of these 25 died without recurrence, 23 within eight weeks, and 2 within a year ; 12 had recurrence within a year, and 2 later; 16 were free from recurrence after rieriods of at least one year ; 11 cases had not been under observation for a vear. Of 102 operations fur malignant disease of the larynx, collected by Buthn, thyrotomy was performed in 28, partial excision in 23, and complete excision in 51 cases. Of the 28 cases of thyrotomy 3 died from the operation and 3 were " cured," viz., free from recurrence after periods of more than three years. Ot the 23 cases of partial excision, 7 died from the operation and 4 were cured. Of the 51 cases of complete excision, 16 died from the operation and 8 were cured, ^ j +i. There seems every reason to believe that the operation performed upon the lines already described will largely replace the more formidable excisions hitherto frequently practised, and that in this way, without increasing the risk of recurrence, the immediate mortality will be much lessened and the subsequent condition of the patient much improved. Felix Semon has recently published the results of 12 operations performed ill his own practice, 10 for malignant disease and 2 for disease of doubtful malignancy. Partial extirpation Avas performed in three cases with 2 deaths ; thyrotomy with resection of portions of cartilage in 4 cases with no deaths ; thyrotomy with removal of soft parts only in 4 cases with 2 deaths ; subhyoid pharyngotomy in one case which ended fatally. Of the 5 fatal cases 2 died '»f septic pneumonia, 1 of bronchitis, 1 from the elfects of ether administered •y the rectum, and 1 from unexplained causes. Of the 5 cases which recovered, ;ind in which the disease was certainly malignant, 1 died from heart disease tftcr Of years ; 3 were well and free from recurrence after 5^, 3^, and 2|- ■ ears respectively ; in 1 there was probable recurrence 4 months after the 'peration. Of the 2 cases in which the malignant nature of the disease was doubtful, 1 was free from recurrence after nearly a year and a half and the 'jthcr after 7 months. VOL. II. 3 B