524 DEFORMITIES OF THE NECK AND LIMBS. has become perinuiient, the patient may derive great comfort from the use of the apparatus represented in Fig. 027. This takes its basis of support from a strong well-fitting pelvic band to which the weight of the upper part of tlie body is transmitted by lateral crutches. Sayre's plaster jacket has been used for lateral curvature, but is wow generally condemned, as it prevents movement completely, and thus increases the weakness of the muscles. A poro-plastic jacket, however, which can be removed for washing, rubbing and exercise may with advantage be used in the place of more costly and complicated apparatus. In cases of posterior excurvation or posterior incurvation of the spine, which we have seen occasionally results from causes similar to those which produce lateral curvature, the treatment must be carried out on the same lines as those above described, and all varieties of mechanical support should as far as possible be avoided. Secondary lateral curvature is met with chiefly in cases of contractioa of one side of the chest following empyema, and is a not unfrequent result of any condition which causes inequality in the length of the lower extremities. When the curvature results from the former condition, the spine is curved laterally so that its concavity is directed towards the contracted side of the thorax. The deformity is necessarily irremediable, being due to the falling together of the parietes resulting from imperfect expansion of the lung. The second variety, which is caused by unequal length of the lower limbs must, if possible, be prevented by the use of a high boot on the foot of the shorter limb. This must be remembered in the treatment of cases in which the shortening results from hip-joint disease or from the operation of excision of the upper end of the femur undertaken for that disease. The convexity of the lumbar curve is directed to the side of the shorter limb and the compensating curve in the dorsal region has the opposite direction. A certain amount of lateral curvature is seen not uncommonly in cases of angular deformity due to caries of the vertebra when the destruction of the bodies is greater on one side than the other. DEFORMITIES OP THE NECK AND LIMBS. Various deformities, such as squint, wry-neck, and club-foot, are due to a disturbance of the normal equilibrium that exists between antagonistic muscles, so that, by the paralysis of one set, or by the spasmodic action of the other, the proper balance of power is lost, and the limb or part deviates fi-om the position that is natural to it, being drawn aside by the more powerful set of muscles. These deformities may be congenital, or they may be acquired. The primary mischief is, in many cases, seated in the nervous system ; in others, but more rarely, in the muscular. The ligaments and bones become only secondarily altered in shape, being shortened or compressed on the side towards which the limb or part inclines or is drawn. Fasciee also become shortened and tense, and the disused muscles are apt to become wasted and flabby. The contracted muscle after a time may become permanently rigid and shortened. Causes.—The causes of these deformities are very various ; but they may be referred to the following heads , j j- , 1. Prolonged Abnormal Position of a limb, as in an unreduced disloca-