1 HYDROCELE. i testis in which I was obliged to have recourse to castration, the whole of the d of this rotum had sloughed away, leaving the testis exposed ani » 1 ing, in consequence of the tight strapping which had been employed befoie the I case came into my hands. i.„„ri..o-o After the swelling has subsided, the patient must wear a suspensory bandage for some months. . ,*;i^/qTT The Induratwn about the Epididymis, which usually remains after epididy- mitis, must be treated by prolonged counter-irritation with mature of iodine or by the application of the iodide of lead or iodine ointment So long as any induration is left it is doubtful whether the secretion is able to find its way through the thickened epididymis. AbScess of the Testicle as the result of orchitis is rare, but is less ex- ceptional after some forms of the disease than others. Clonorrhoeal epididy- mitis is foUowed by suppuration only in extremely rare instances. Marmaduke Sheild, who has recently investigated this subject, has collected a considerable number of cases in which suppuration has followed the passage of instruments. Thus, abscess of the testicle has been known to follow catheterization, and also lithotomy and Hthotrity. Traumatic orchitis rarely suppurates. With regard to the inflammation of the testicle which follows specific fevers, Ternllon and Monod state that orchitis after typhoid more frequently ends m suppuration than any other variety, whereas Sheild was unable to find a smgle^recorded . case in which abscess of the testicle had occurred after mumps. Wilks and i Moxon mention four cases in which they found abscess of the epididymis in pyemia. Simple abscess of the testicle must be carefully distinguished from those due to tuberculous or syphilitic disease, and also from suppuration m the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. . In true abscess of the testicle the pus forms under the tunica albuginea, adhesion takes place between the testis and the scrotum, the fibrous coat gives way, and the pus gets vent externally through the integuments. Into the aperture that necessarily results a portion of the secreting tissue of the gland sometimes projects, and, becoming inflamed, forms a red, granular, and fungous mass, protruding through and overlapping the edges of the aperture. The treatment consists in making an incision as soon as the presence of pus is suspected ; if a fungus testis forms, it must be treated as described at p. 1252. Inflammation and Abscess of the Cord.—In some cases the inflamma- tion of the testis may extend, or the disease may, from the first, be limited to the areolar tissue of the cord, giving rise to tumefaction, with a good deal of pain and tenderness, and eventually abscess, accompanied by the usual signs of suppuration. The Treatment of such a case must be conducted on ordinary j)rinciples, early discharge for the pus being secured. Chronic Orchitis of a persistent character constitutes a distinct disease of •.the testis, so closely aUied to some forms of tumour of this organ in its char- . iicter and pathology, that it will be more convenient to consider it with the .Sohd Enlargements of the Gland (p. 1251). HYDROCELE. By Hydrocele is meant an accumulation of serous fluid, formed in con- nexion with the testis or cord. In the most common form the fluid occupies