CHRONIC OSTEITIS AND PERIOSTITIS. 269 it is due to syphilis, rheumatism, or occurs in a scrofulous subject. Chronic periostitis is always accompanied sooner or later by the formation of new bone (Osteoplastic Periostitis, see p. 257). The symptoms consist of a hard elongated, but somewhat puffy swelling without cutaneous discoloration—a ^loje—xiot distinctly circumscribed, and attended with much pain in the part, especially at night, with tenderness on pressure. Treatment.—In the treatment of the acute form of the affection, the free applications of leeches, with hot fomentations, will arrest the disease, and give relief to the patient. Should pus form it must be let out by incision as soon as it is recognized, strict antiseptic precautions being observed in order to diminish the risk of necrosis. * In the more clironic form, the continued administration of the iodide of potassium will reduce the swelling, remove the nocturnal pains, and materi- ally improve the local condition of the part. In those cases of periostitis which are of syphilitic character, iodide of potassium may be looked upon almost as a specific. Added to this, repeated blistering will be of essential service. If there be much thickening, the parts suffer from the tension of the structures ; here considerable relief will be afforded by the free division of the periosteum down to the bone, either through the skin, or subcutaneously by means of a tenotome. CHRONIC OSTEITIS AND PERIOSTITIS. By Chronic Osteitis and Periostitis is meant an affection usually at- tacking long bones, leading to considerable enlargement, with alteration in structure. A section of the affected bone shows that the periosteum is thickened and new bone is being formed beneath it (Osteoplastic Periostitis, p. 257). The compact tissue has become more porous than natural, and from the simultaneous destruction of the old bone and formation of new, it often shows a pecuhar laminated expansion of its structure, so that a section of it presents an appearance of concentric parallel layers (Rarefying Osteitis and Expansion of Bone, pp. 261, 265). The cancellous tissue may at the same time become denser than natural, and new bone may form, filling the medullary canal (Osteoplastic Osteitis of the Cancellous tissue, p. 265). As the result of these changes in its various component parts, the whole bone may be con- verted into a uniform mass with but little distinction between the cancellous and compact tissue. When the process becomes extremely chronic, as it often does, the osteoplastic processes may be more pronounced, and the enlarged bone may become extremely dense and ivory-like in structure. Chronic osteitis and periostitis may occur alone, but it is more common to find them associated with necrosis of small portions of the cancellous or central layers of the com- pact tissue, or with the presence of a chronic abscess in the cancellous tissue. The disease may affect the whole length of a bone (Fig. 509), or may be Hmited to one end. When it occurs in young subjects it is often accompanied by early union of the epiphyses, which may cause shortening from want of growth. In other cases in which the middle part of the bone is chiefly affected, elongation may take place. I have seen, as the result of chronic osteitis, the tibia from one-and-a-half to two inches longer than its fellow. Causes.—Chronic osteitis may arise from various causes. In some cases It is met with in strumous children, and appears to arise from slight injury