MALFORMATIONS OF ANUS AND RECTUM. 95 ^ ODeninc of the bowel may be postponed for twenty-four hours if the child's rSn wUl allow. sLkl hunbar colotomy be -"^^^^f J-^rd' borne in mind that the kidney is relatively very large, extends far outwards m'y be enveloped in very little fat, aM may thus easdy be -uf Jl mortality after colotomy in these cases is necessarily high : ^^^^^ f ^ ^use^ collected by Ball, U recovered, 27 died, and in one the result was not kno^^n^ In 34 cases the inguinal operation was performed with 17 recoveries, 16 deaths and one doubtful result; in 17 cases the lumbar operation was performed with 7 recoveries and 10 deaths. In one fatal case the method was not stcitccl 5 Absence of Anus ; Opening of Rectum into Bladder, Urethra or Vagina.—This class includes a considerable proportion of all cases of malfor- mation of the rectum and anus, and necessarily presents much difficulty in treatment When the communication is with the bladder there is little hope of reachino- the bowel from the perineum. Colotomy is therefore required, and Ball has suggested that it might be advisable completely to divide the colon, suture the lower opening, and convert the upper one into the artihcial anus When the communication is with the urethra there is more hope of success by the perinteal incision ; and cases have occurred m which, although the whole of the meconium with flatus had escaped per urethram, yet, on openino- the rectum, the abnormal communication has gradually closed. When the rectum opens into the vagina the communication is in the posterior wall, usuaUy just above the vaginal orifice. The opening may be surrounded by a sphincter sufficiently developed to prevent the constant escape of fjBces, or it may consist only of a small track communicating with the rectum above its blind extremity. In the latter case the bowel should be opened in the peiin^um, and if necessary when the child is older steps must be taken to close the vaginal opening. When the opening into the vagina is represented by an anus provided with a sphincter, an attempt may be made to separate this from its abnormal connexions, and transplant it to the peringeum. Dermoids have occasionally been met with in connexion with the mucous membrane of the rectum, the most conspicuous symptom in some recorded cases having been the projection of a bunch of long hairs from the anus. The explanation of the occurrence of dermoids in this position is not clear, but according to Bland Sutton they illustrate the close affinity of mucous membrane and skin, and the readiness with which one merges into the other. The only treatment consists in the removal of the growth. Dermoid cysts are also sometimes found between the rectum and the sacrum, and are then supposed to arise from an unobhterated portion of the neurenteric canal. In a case of this kind operated on by Page, of Newcastle, the cyst was of very large size, and was successfully removed by an incision between the anus and the coccyx. After emptying the cyst of atheromatous matter and hairs, it was easily withdrawn by gently separating it with the fingers. It extended upwards above the brim of the pelvis, but did not implicate the peritoneum.