34 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. transverse incision should also be made just below the pinna. The anterior border of the process and the edge of the tendon of insertion of the sterno- mastoid are carefully cleaned, and the parotid turned forwards. The upper border of the digastric is next found, crossing the wound nearly transversely. The nerve is parallel to this, and according to Grodlee it will be found emerging from under the middle of that part of the mastoid process which is exposed in the wound. After the digastric is exposed, the dissection must be carried out with a director and forceps as -the deep parts of the wound approach the internal jugular vein. When the nerve is found and cleaned, it must be firmly stretched with two blunt hooks, ('omplete paralysis of the face should result if sufiicient force is used. TRAUMATIC PARALYSIS. Traumatic paralysis is referable to three distinct sets of causes. First, it may arise from Injury to, or Compression of the Brain giving rise to localized paralysis when the cortical motor centres are injured, or to hemiplegia or more general paralysis when the deep centres are implicated, or pressure is exerted on the brain substance generally. These conditions have already been fully described in the Chapter on the Injuries of the Head (Vol. I., pp. 744 and 753). Secondly, it may arise from Injury of the Sjmml Cord giving rise primarily or secondarily to lesion of the substance, either by laceration, com- pression, or ultimate disintegration. The eflFects produced will vary Avith the extent and seat of the injury, from complete paraplegia with loss of sensation in the paralysed parts, to irregular impairment of sensation and motion. (See Wounds of the Spinal Cord, Vol. L, p. 802, and Intraspinal Haemorrhage, p. 789.) Thirdly, Injury to the Nerves at any part of their course, from the roots to the terminal subdivisions of their trunks, may occasion paralysis of the parts supplied by them. The effect produced may be immediate, as from Section of a Nerve (see Vol. I., p. 492) ; or more gradual, from Pressure (see Vol. I., p. 491) ; or it may occur as the result of Chronic Neuritis following a strain, or other injury (see Vol. I., p. 497). These conditions having already been fully described, it only remains to notice here a form of paralysis that is occasionally confounded with the traumatic varieties ; viz., that arising from exposure to cold, or rheumatic paralysis. Rheumatic Paralysis, or Paralysis from Exposure to Cold (Du- chenne), is rare. Duchenne states that he has met with it in most of the nerves of the limbs, and it is far from uncommon in the facial nerve. It most frequently arises ft'om exposure of the affected part to a draught or prolonged chill while the body is sweating. It i« difficult to assign a distinct pathological cause for it ; that it is due to an actual inflammation of the nerve, a neuritis, may be assumed from the symptoms, and the paralysis is probably the result of compression of the fibres of the nerve from effusion into its sheath. The paralysis may arise in two ways. In the first variety there is prolonged evidence of neuritis before the loss of power appears. The first symptom when a compound nerve is affected is pain along its couree, gradu- ally increasing in severity, stabbing or violently aching in character. ^ With this there may be various modifications of sensation in the parts supplied by the nerve, as numbness, tingling, or hyperassthesia. These symptoms are