834 HERNIA. litmtion rapidly, but more commonly the chu., alteiatioii that takes place is m its character. It becomes reHfH«h m colour from transuded blood. Sometimes even pure blood ^^^^^^^^ sac. and I have seen the protruded intestine invested with a lave o cot ul'"'^ If gangrene of he g.t takes place, the fluid becomes turbid dark amf offi^ sive. Suppuration in the sac is very rare. I have onlyZ'ce m fc 'il^^ a woman .52 years of age, three months pregnant, who wrsX n Jf^m " acutely strangulated femoral hernia of s xty hours' duration Tn fw taxis had been freely used. Fluctuation CuTd be fe deep^ t^^^ djffused doughy infiltration of the groin, and on opekg thf sa it w^s o :i filled with dark thick pus-about half an ounce; at the bottom of vli lay a small deeply congested but not gangrenous knuckle of interne vh n.?n' ^« been established by the researches of Nepveo Clado and others that the fluid in the sac may contain micro-orgarm among which is the bacterium coli commune (p. 817), even when The gufcTs . neither gangrenous nor perforated. This fact may help to explain some casi m which peritonitis follows the reduction of the hernia by taxis or ope^tion Inflammation of the Gut after relief of Strangulation occurs in* a . large proportion of cases. It has already been pointed out in the chapter on . Inflammation (Vol. I., p. 175) that the arrest of circulation through a part of ' the living body produces different effects according to the length of time that It IS kept up If the arrest is complete and of sufficient duration, gangrene sets in, such blood as the vessels contain coagulates, and on relief of the strangulation the blood is unable to enter the dead tissues. If the arrest of the circulation has been maintained for a length of time sufficient to lower the I vitality of the part considerably but not to kill it, on the relief of strangula- I tion all the phenomena of inflammation manifest themselves. The vessels become engorged with blood, abundant exudation takes place causing great swelling by which the feeble circulation may be again arrested and gangrene may set in. In other cases the inflammation may fall short of this, but may, in the case of the intestine, be sufficient to suspend the functions of the affected part so that although the strangulation is relieved, the obstruction to the passage of fteces remains for some days, or even till death results. If the arrest of circulation has been less complete or of shorter duration, the rehef of strangulation is followed by temporary hyperjemia, which soon subsides. It is not uncommon in fatal cases to find the coil of intestine free from gangrene, but swollen, covered with a thick layer of inflammatory exudation fixing it to the neighbouring coils, and evidently incapable of performing its functions. This inflammation after reduction is a fact of great importance, as it shows the necessity of giving the gut rest as far as possible after the strangulation has been relieved by the avoidance of purgatives or irritating food. It was formerly assumed that in all cases of prolonged strangulation general peritonitis sets in. This assumption is not borne out by the results of the post-mortem examination of cases dying of unrelieved strangulation. In such cases, as a rule, local peritonitis is found at the neck of the sac, but the membrane generally is free from any signs of inflammation. Should in- flammation occur it is always slight, and seems to be secondary to acute inflammation of the mucous membrane of the intestine above the stricture.