STJWC TUBAL CHANGES IN J (ONE. architecture of the bone had been altered ; the structure appeared to have been ahnost entirely removed and laid down afresh on a different plan and in a larger mould." The enlarged Haversian canals contained a tissue closely resembling that found in ordinary rarefying osteitis, but more fibrillar and con- taining fewer cells. In some of the canals the process of destruction was evidently progressing, Howship's lacuna) with osteoclasts (p. 259) being seen, while in other parts new bone was being formed by osteoclasts. Sharkey found similar changes and noted an irregularity in the arrangement of the bone corpuscles and shrinking of the lacunaj. In three of Pagct's first cases sarcomata of bone appeared late in life ; and of a total of 19 deaths, collected by Thibierge, 10 occurred from malignant disease, affecting amongst other parts, the dura mater, lung, cerebellum, humerus and radius. No Treatment seems to be of any use. AOBOMEGALY. Acromegaly is a rare disease chiefly characterized by symmetrical enlarge- ment of certain parts of the skeleton, notably of the hands, the feet and the face. It was first described as a distinct affection by Pierre Marie in 1885, who founded his description on two typical cases in the Salpetriere Hospital. Cases presenting similar symptoms had previously been recorded, and since the publication of Marie's monograph a considerable number of cases have been met with in this country and elsewhere. In Souza-Leite's thesis, pubhshed in 1890, details of thirty-eight cases are given. The Causes of acromegaly are obscure. The disease affects both sexes, but women appear to be more liable to it than men. It usually commences between the ages of 20 and 26. There is no evidence to show that syphiHs stands in any causal relation to the affection, nor does it appear clear that the relation to gout and rheumatism is more than an accidental one. Symptoms.—The most obvious symptoms of acromegaly are the enlarge- ments of the hands and feet, and of the face. The enlargement of the hands takes place without appreciable alteration of form, except that the width and thickness are more increased than the length, so that the term " battledore hands " has been appHed to them by Marie. There is no swelling or oedema, the soft parts being merely increased in proportion to the bones, so that the hands come to resemble those of a giant. The arms and forearms are usually not enlarged, and in cases where some hypertrophy of these parts was noted it was not in proportion to that of the hands. The feet are affected similarly to the hands, the enlargement not extending above the ankles. The cranmm is rarely much aff-ected, but there may be some increase in its antero-posterior diameter. The alteration in the face is the most striking feature, and the patient may be quite unrecognizable by his friends. It becomes greatly in- creased in length and oval in form, the enlargement affecting chiefly the supraciliary ridges, the margins of the orbits, the nose, the malar bones and, more than all, the lower jaw. The soft parts of the face generally are thickened; the lower lip is much enlarged and the chin promiuent. There is marked curvature of the spine in the cervical and dorsal regions so that the head is thrown forwards. The sternum is prominent and the clavicles and ribs enlarged In a large number of recorded cases the thyroid gland has been diminished in size ; in some it appeared to be normal, and in a few instances