575 EXAMINATION OF THE EAR. surroimdiiios." The operation has been performed in 25 cases by Lannelongue a„d by Horsley, Keen, McClintock, and others. Of 83 cases collected by r.ourneville in 181)3, 15 died. Of Lannelongne's 25 cases 24 recovered ; the ages varied from eight months CO twelve and a half years ; the greater number showed evident improvement after the operation. In most cases the strip of bone has been removed from rhe left side, but in some a second strip has been removed from the right. I'he bone is exposed by a long antero-posterior incision reaching from the neighbourhood of the frontal eminence a varying distance backwards and an inch from the middle line ; the incision may be slightly curved, so that a flap can be reflected. A strip of periosteum corresponding to the bone to be removed is next cut away, and the bone itself, in a strip 4 to 6 inches long and half an inch broad, is. removed with Hofmann's or other bone forceps after cutting out a small circle of bone with the trephine. In one of Horsley's cases a second strip was removed transversely over the coronal suture in the hope of relieving the speech-centre. The operation is not without danger in young children, and two cases at least have died, of hyperpyrexia, not caused by septic processes in the wound, but probably due to disturbance of the heat regulating centres in the cortex. Even at some risk to life the operation is fully justified if it holds out even a small hope of improvement in these distressing cases, and certainly the results so far recorded seem to warrant its further trial, DISEASES OF THE EAR. Method of Examination.—In order to ascertain the patient's power of hearing, a watch or tuning-fork is most commonly used, and separate estima- tions must be made of the power of appreciating sounds conducted through the air and through the bones of the skull. In this way the cases of deafness due to some obstruction of the conducting apparatus can readily be dis- tinguished from those in which the essential part of the organ of hearing is at fault. In the former case all power of appreciating sounds conducted through the air maybe lost, whilst sounds transmitted directly to the auditory apparatus through the bone are still distinctly audible ; in the latter case the power of hearing is diminished or lost to both paths of conduction. The degree of hearing through the air may be roughly estimated by comparing the maximum distance from the ear at which the ticking of a watch is heard by the patient as compared with that of a person with normal hearing power, he patient's eyes should be closed, and a finger placed over the opposite ear ; the watch is then brought slowly nearer to the ear under examination until its sound is first heard, and the distance noted. In order to determine the power of hearing through the bone, a vibrating tuning-fork is firmly held against the upper part of the mastoid process. If \\ ith an ear deaf to sound through the air the tuning-fork is now heard, it is certain that the conducting channels, and not the auditory apparatus itself, are at fault. If the vibrating tuning-fork be pressed against the vertex, in health it is heard equally in the two ears ; if, however, one meatus or one Eustachian tube be blocked, the sound will be heard more loudly in the affected ear. For examining the membrana tympani or tympanum from the meatus, the ordinary silver ear speculum will be found as efficient as ttny of the more