TREATMENT OF ACUTE ORCHITIS. 1235 The pain is always very severe, with much tenderness and a sensation of wei-ht,and commonly extends up the cord into the grom and loin it is ..enej-ally greatest when the body of the testis is affected, owing probably to The enveloping fibrous tunic preventing the expansion of the organ Jience it is often spasmodic and paroxysmal, extending up the course of the cord There are usually considerable swelling and redness of the scrotum, witn turgescence of the scrotal veins, and a congested state of the cord, with sharp l)yrexia, nausea, and perhaps occasional vomiting. _ As the disease subsides, the body of the testis first resumes its normal cha- racter and shape, the epididymis often continuing hardened and enlarged tor a considerable period. In fact, the induration that forms m the epididymis may be permanent, implicating the whole or a portion of its convolutions Gosselin has shown that this indm-ation of the epididymis following inflam- mation frequently causes complete obstruction of the canal, and if occurring (m both sides, produces sterility. In 19 such cases he found spermatozoa absent from the semen, and the patients consequently incapable of procreation, although the appearance of the testes and of their secretion was scarcely altered, and the virile powers of the patients remained unimpaired. Curhng also mentions several such cases, and points out the necessity of continuing the treatment of epididymitis until the last trace of induration has disappeared. At a later period treatment is almost useless. Subacute Orchitis usually comes on with the same symptoms, though in a less marked form than in the acute variety. The swelling, however,_is con- siderable, though of a softer kind. Should it become chronic, the testis often remains permanently enlarged and hardened, assuming an oval shape, being smooth, heavy, and uniformly expanded, with a sensation of weight, dragging, and severe pain, and a good deal of tenderness on pressure. This form of orchitis occasionally occurs in did people. Orchitis may occur idiopathically, without any assignable cause in the way of external injury or local irritation in the urethra or prostate. This form of the disease is most common in middle-aged men, and more especially in those who are gouty. In fact, the disease is in all probability one of the many local forms of gouty inflammation. It is not very acute but lingering, liable to re- currence, and to be followed either by hydrocele or chronic induration of the epididymis. Atrophy of the Testis as a consequence of Inflammation is more liable to follow the orchitis of mumps in young men above the age of puberty than any other inflammatory affection of the organ. It is remarkable how rapid and how complete the wasting of the testis will be in these cases. A few weeks after the subsidence of the inflammation the testis may be found to form a small soft mass not larger than a filbert. Atrophy of the testis may sometimes gradually ensue also as a result (jf chronic epididymitis, and the consequent induration of this structure. Strangulation of the vascular supply to the testis occurs, and the whole organ at last wastes so as to leave nothing but a small hardened mass in the scrotum. Treatment of Acute Orchitis.—The patient should be kept in bed with the testis raised on a small pillow between the thighs, and hot fomentations diligently applied. At the same time the swollen gland may be painted with a mixture of equal parts of glycerine and extract of belladonna. This treat- 4 K 2