I "24 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. this, is commonly fatal. It is thus that chronic retention from atony of the bladder destroys life, not by ulceration of the organ or by extravasation of urine, winch does not occur in these cases as in other forms of more acute retention. Treatment.—Atony of the bladder, except in the few cases that arise from a single over-distension, is incurable. It is dependent upon senile changes in the viscus of ail organic character that may be relieved but cannot be remedied. The great danger in this state arises from the retained urine, even though retention be by no means complete. So long as this residual udue ig in small quantity no harm results. Even when it accumulates so as to amount to several ounces, it may give rise to no symptom beyond frequency of micturition. Sooner or later, however, the over-distension causes some irri- tation of the bladder, and the urine becomes cloudy from excess of mucus. Decomposition of the retained urine then fre(iuently takes place, either from extension of decomposition up the urethra or after the passage of instru- ments, as already described. It must not be supposed that mere retention of a small quantity of urine after each act of micturition is sufficient in itself to cause decomposition. Nothing is more common than to find patients who have not emptied their bladders for many months, and whose urine is yet perfectly normal in every respect. The statement sometimes made that de- composition never takes place till after an instrument has been passed, is, however, not accurate, although in the great majority of cases the urine be- comes ammoniacal only after surgical interference. When this takes place all the symptoms of chronic or subacute cystitis supervene. Febrile disturbance of the type of chronic septic poisoning sets in, and death may follow. This is more especially likely to happen when the kidneys are aifected by chronic interstitial nephritis, which, as already pointed out (p. 994), is a common result of prolonged over-distension of the bladder. The primary object of all treatment in ordinary uncomplicated senile atony of the bladder is to free the patient from the residual urine, which he is no longer able to expel. This can be done only by the use of the catheter, and it is the duty of the Surgeon to teach the patient how to use this instrument for himself, so that at all times he may be the master of his own situation, and relieve himself when necessary. The commencement of " catheter life," as it has been appropriately termed by Sir Andrew Clark, is an important period in a man's existence. For when once the use of the instrument has been begun, it can rarely be discontinued. Hence it is well not to begin it unnecessarily early. But it is of at least equal importance not to fall into the opposite error of delaying its use too long, lest the residual urine be allowed to accumulate to such an extent as to become a source of discomfort to the patient, of injury to his general health, and of danger by inducing septic cystitis and all its concomitant evils. The use of the catheter in cases of atony of the bladder for the removal of residual urine is very simple, and, if the kidneys be sound and the most ordinary precautions taken, is unattended with any danger. The safest catheter to use is a soft one. The simple soft red rubber catheter will often pass with ease, and is then by far the best instrument to use. Metallic instruments need not be used by the Surgeon, and should never be employed by the patient himself. The ordinary elbowed prostatic catheter, or the conical one with a bulbous end of medium size, will be found most convenient if the rubber