DISEASE OF THE HI I'-JOINT. 43° apparatus, but sometimes the joint may be conveniently fixed by means of a leather splint, the starched bandage, or the plaster of Paris bandage. Of these 1 prefer the starched bandage as being most easily applied. The liip part must be strengthened with a piece of pasteboard lined with calico, sutticiently long to extend down the whole of the back of the thigh t(j below the knee, so as to support that joint also, and the spica bandage must be applied in repeated turns, otherwise the apparatus will not fix the joint. In applying this or any other apparatus, it is often necessaiy, especially in children, to administer chloroform, as the pain occasioned by the necessary movements may be too severe to be borne without it. In young children a single Thomas's splint is not an efficient appliance, and it is very essential that the lower limbs be fixed so that tilting of the pelvis may be prevented, and in order that the child may be easily carried about without fear of moving the inflamed joint. For this purpose a double Thomas's splint should be employed. This consists of a vertical bar for each lower limb which is attached above to the circular band ; the leg pieces should be fixed in such a position that the limbs are slightly abducted. The above description includes the general plan of treatment required in the early stages of tuberculous disease of the hip, and, although different Surgeons may employ various methods for carrying out the treatment, their object is the same, viz., to bring about arrest of the disease by putting the joint at perfect rest, reheving muscular spasm by extension, and improving the condition of the general health. In spite of every precaution, however, suppuration occurs in a considerable proportion of cases, and unfortunately has often already taken place when the case is first brought for treatment. Under these circumstances a wide diff"erence of opinion exists amongst Surgeons at the present day as to the line of treatment which should be adopted. It is at once obvious that the success of the method adopted must be judged chiefly by the amount of danger which it involves to the Hfe of the patient, and by the ultimate utility of the limb. Preference must also be given to that method which, without sacrificing any of the advantages to be obtained in other ways, brings about the most speedy cure. The treatment must as far as possible be based upon general patho- logical principles, but theoretical considerations must not be allowed to out- weigh practical experience ; the perfection of the treatment must be judged by the perfection of the result. . Thus far all Surgeons will agree that when once suppuration has occurred in a case of tuberculous hip disease the sooner the abscess is opened with anti- septic precautions the better. But whilst some Surgeons consider this sufficient and maintain that the best ultimate result is obtained by opening fresh abscesses as they form, and keeping the joint at perfect rest, others believe that an attempt should be made to remove the diseased tissues as freely as possible, and for this purpose practise excision of the head of the femur at a comparatively early stage of the disease. Attempts have been made by Schede and others to extend the operation of arthrectomy to the hip-joint, and in cases of synovial disease to remove the tuberculous tissues as completely as possible without sacrificing the head of the bone. Such an operation must necessarily be extensive, and probably imperfect, and although in rare instances an extensive abscess in connexion with disease of the upper end of the femur or of the pelvic bones in the neighbourhood of the acetabulum may