DISEASES OF THE NOSE. 588 larynx (see Diseases of the Larynx), but the tongue is not drawn out. The uvula IS then drawn forwuvd with a small curved spatula, or the ])atient may be told to bend the head slightly forwards, breathe out through the nose and say " on " nasally as in French. The mirror is then inserted till it is clo'se to but not touching the posterior wall of the pharynx. The handle may be slightly bent with the concavity of the curve towards the tongue. The mirror should be of small size, and should be joined to the stem at a very obtuse angle. It should be passed first on one side and then on the other of the uvula, the shank being used to depress the tongue, or if that organ is difficult to control, a tongue-depressor should be used with the left hand, whilst the mirror is held in the right. The examination is much facilitated by rendering the parts insensible with a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine applied with a brush. The posterior nares can also be examined digitally by passing the finger behind the soft palate. Deviation of the Septum.—This may be the result of injury or a congenital malformation. It is seldom of any importance, but should it exist to such an extent as to obstruct one nostril it may be necessary to remedy the deformity by operation. This may be done by forcibly bending the septum into its proper position with some blunt instrument passed up the nostril. Should this be impossible, the part of the cartilage obstructing the nostril may be cut away, care being taken not to remove so much as to cause sinking in of the nose. Chronic Catarrh, in the form of a thin watery mucous discharge, lasting for many months, is occasionally met with, more particularly in young women, independently of any structural disease of the mucous membrane. The Treat- ment of this affection consists in the employment of tonics and means calculated to strengthen the system generally, and the local application of astringents, such as tannin, chloride of zinc, &c. But under any plan of treatment this affection is apt to prove rebellious. "Watery Discharge from the Nose.—Paget has recorded a case in which a clear watery fluid of a specific gravity of 10()4, containing a trace of albumen and a considerable quantity of chloride of sodium, flowed steadily at the rate of a drop every five or six seconds from the left nostril. The fluid exactly resembled cerebro-spinal fluid. Following the practice of Brodie in a similar case, Paget administered sulphate of zinc internally, and injected the nostril with a solution of the same substance, and under this treatment the discharge ceased. The flow commenced six months after a severe blow on the forehead. The patient subsequently died of meningitis, the inflammation being most marked about the under surface of the frontal lobes, but no com- munication was found between the nasal fossEe and the subarachnoid space. In the left antrum, however, were found two broad-based polypoid growths which Paget beheves to have been the cause of the discharge. Oz»na.—By the term Ozaena is meant a chronic muco-purulent discharge from the nose, having a peculiar and most offensive smell. It may arise in some cases without evident cause, and is then called simple; but more commonly it is due to syphilitic or strumous disease in the nasal fossae, accom- panied by ulceration of the mucous membrane or necrosis of the bones. The treatment necessarily varies with the cause of the disease, and will be discussed with the affections that give rise to it, but from whatever cause it may arise the nasal cavity must be thoroughly washed out twice a day at least to remove