TREATMENT OF LUPUS. 7 Complications.—BQjoTi& the deformity caused by the scars, the disease itself causes no serious consequences. As a rule it in no way affects the general health. Erysipelas not uncommonly attacks the diseased surface, and in some instances has been followed by marked improvement. Squamous carcinoma has been known to arise in a patch of lupus or in the resulting scar tissue. Causes.—Lupus is commonly said to occur in scrofulous subjects, but the great majority of cases present no other sign of the strumous diathesis. There is no evidence that it is ever directly or indirectly related to syphilis. We know practically nothing of the local conditions which predispose to the invasion of the cutis by the bacillus tuberculosis, beyond the fact that in rare cases lupus commences in a scar, and occasionally as the result of direct inoculation. It is very rarely associated with tubercle of the lungs, and shows practically no tendency to give rise to general tuberculosis. Prognosis.—Lupus is characterized by its slow course, and its tendency to relapse after apparent arrest; it is never, however, directly fatal. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis is not always easy, the disease being especially apt to be confounded with some forms of impetigo, with tertiary syphilitic ulcerations, with rodent ulcer and with cancer. From impetigo it may be distinguished by the absence of pustules, and of the thick gummy crusts ' characteristic of that affection, as well as by the smaller extent of surface im- plicated, and by its more chronic course. From tertiary syphilitic ulcerations, especially fi'om the ulcerating tubercular syphilide or softening cutaneous gummata, it is often very difficult to distinguish it. The history of the disease, the age of the patient at the time of invasion, and the more rapid progress of the syphilitic affection will usually enable the Surgeon to make a correct diagnosis. From squamous carcinoma it is distinguished with ease : in lupus the tubercles are numerous, and there are many centres of ulceration, , the glands are seldom enlarged, and the disease commences in early life ; in cancer the primary disease is single, the glands are early affected, the disease commences after middle life. In lupus the ulcer is flat, with sharply-cut edges ; in cancer it is rugged and irregular, with hard, elevated and everted edges. The diagnosis from rodent ulcer will be given with that disease. Treatment.—The constitutional treaiment of lupus was formerly considered of great importance. Cod-liver oil, the iodides of potassium, mercury, and arsenic, either alone or combined with various other drugs, have been credited with a curative, or at least a beneficial influence dti the disease. At the present time, however, when simple scrofulous sores and tertiary syphilitic ulcerations have been clearly distinguished from true lupus, the efficacy of drugs in the treatment of the disease has been found to be much less than was once supposed. Still, as lupus frequently occurs in patients who are in feeble health, anaemic or scrofulous, constitutional treatment must not be neglected ; for it is evident that by improving the general health healing will be promoted. The diet should be carefully regulated and nutritious, and general hygienic conditions must be attended to. We have already considered the remarkable effects produced by the subcutaneous injection of tuberculin in cases of lupus vulgaris. As a practical therapeutic agent, the drug is likely to prove of very limited use, but it is thought that injections may be used with advantage after the diseased tissue has been destroyed as completely as possible by any of the local measures now to be described.