549 TREATMENT OF CONTRACTED KNEE. semitendiuosLis next requires division, but it is rarely necessary to cut the semimembranosus. If subcutaneous tenotomy be practised the Surgeon should introduce the tenotome close to the side of the tendon to be divided, and cut in a direction from the poi3liteal space towards the skin. In dividing the biceps tendon great care must be taken not to injure the external popliteal nerve which lies to its inner side. This may be avoided by keeping the side of the tenotome well against the inner side of the tendon, then turning the edge outwards when passed deep enough. Any tense aponeurotic bands which are felt after the tendons have been cut should be left, as any attempt to divide them may bring the tenotome into undesirable proximity to the popliteal vessels, the anatomical relations of the parts often being considerably altered. Division of the tendons by the open method—that is, by making a short incision over them—has the advantages tliat the risk of injury to vessels or nerves is avoided, and the Surgeon may safely proceed to divide any tense fascial bands which become prominent after the tendons themselves have been cut through. After division of the hamstrings, the knee does not commonly come readily into the straight position, owing to the shortening of the ligament of Winslow and the anterior crucial ligament, and gradual extension, by means of proper apparatus, will be required to overcome this and to stretch the adhesions within and around the joint. In a large proportion of cases of contracted knee, flexion of the joint is associated with backward displacement of the head of the tibia and external rotation of the leg. Simple extension will then be insufficient to rectify the deformity, for although the flexion may be overcome the displacement of the tibia remains, and the limb is left in the condition represented in the accomipanying diagram (Fig. 644). Various mechanical contrivances have been suggested for drawing forward the tibia into its normal position on the end of the femur, but it is not surprising that little success follows their use, for, as we have seen, the movement forwards of the bone is strongly resisted by the shortened anterior crucial ligament. If, therefore, the contraction be sufficiently marked to interfere seriously with the use of the limb operative interference is necessary ihe operation will consist in carrying out the usual steps required in excision of the knee. The joint must be opened by freely dividing the contracted ligaments and hbrous adhesions, and then sufficient bone must be removed to mow the parts to be brought into a satisfactory position. In practice It ometimes happens that this operation is undertaken for contraction of the knee <iue to tuberculous disease which is not yet entirely quiescent. In such cases ;l'r'''T.'Tf v,moymg the diseased tissues and lemeaymg the deformity. an^otl'nH^ ''""pt^ % of the hue in a contracfed position is or^ f .1^^? P^il^d<^lphi^^ in 1835, proposed an operat on for lestormg the straight position of the limb in cases of complete^osseous Pig. 6^4. — Knee- joint after Extension : Head of Tibia thrown Backwards.