ACCIDENTS DURIFG CATHETERISM. 1185 u hcu it will be found that, however tightly grasped it had been orig-jnally, has become loosened; a slight discharge being at the f-^.^^time set up f,om the urethra. It may then be ^'^^dil/^^thdrawn and >^l^en the tion has subsided at the end of a couple of days, a considerably laigei one may '""'m^^^^^ of the size of the instrument should be very gradual. It iVLfy Sufficient to increase it by one number at each time o^n^o" Many urethra will not bear even this, and it becomes necessary to pass the ime i—nt on two or three successive occasions be 01. a larger s^^^^^^^^^^^^ be introduced. The size may be gradually increased until the largest s reached which the urethral ori6ce readily admits ; but as soon as No 1^ 01 16 can be introduced with ease, it should not be passed so frequently as before; may be passed every seven or ten days, and gradually with less f^^equency. But a patient who has once suffered from a tight stricture should pass an instrument at least once a month for the rest of his life. _ If the size of the instrument be increased too rapidly, irritation may be set up, and inflammation of the testicles, and abscess in the perinseum or prostate induced I have more than once had occasion to regret being in too great haste to increase the size of the instrument; and by augmenting it by two or three numbers at one sitting, I have seen the patient thrown back for weeks by the supervention of some of the affections just mentioned. Bv gradual dilatation, properly carried out, most strictures may be consider- ably re'lieved in the course of a few weeks ; and the majority may be brought to "the full size by continuing the treatment for a sufficient length of time. Some, however, cannot be cured in this way ; it would appear that the tissue of which they are composed is so rigid that, although they may be expanded up to a certain size—say up to No. 5 or 6—it is impossible to go beyond this. In other cases there is a great tendency to relapse, and to a return of the con- striction ; the stricture rapidly becoming tighter as soon as the introduction of the instruments is discontinued, even though it be dilated to the full size of the urethra, up to No. 16, for instance. In some instances the relapse is almost instantaneous, micturition being as difficult as before immediately the catheter is withdrawn. In these cases recourse must be had to other measures, which will be described. Accidents attending Catheterism.—The introduction of instruments occasionally gives rise to certain troublesome and even dangerous sequences. Amongst these, syncope and rigors, haemorrhage, and inflammatory irritation about the urethra or testes, are the most common. Nervous Symptoms, Rigors, and Urethral Fever.—The subject of urethral fever following the use of instruments on the urinary organs in ]:ersons affected with chronic or subacute interstitial nephritis has already been discussed at p. 1003. There is no condition in which this untoward com- plication is more apt to occur than in the treatment of stricture of the urethra, owing no doubt in a great degree to the frequent occurrence of chronic and possil)ly unsuspected kidney disease in old-standing cases. Various degrees of constitutional disturbance may be produced by the passage of an instrument through a stricture. In nervous and sensitive indi- viduals this operation is often attended with a sensation of faintness and chilli- ness as the instrument enters the bulb or membranous portion of the urethra. This sensation is not due either to pain or to fear. It is purely reflex, and VOL. II. 4 G