43 TREATMENT OF ELEPHANTIASIS ARABUM. successfully be pvacfcised. In performing tlie operation, two points demand attention. The first is the avoidance of hsemorrhage, M^iicli in so vascular a region might easily be fatal. The other is the preservation of the penis and testes. The avoidance of hsemorrhage may be effected by various methods, which may be employed singly or combined. The loss of blood may be greatly diminished by position, as originally advocated by O'FeiTall in 1844, the patient lying on his back and having the tumour raised above the level of the body for an hour before the operation. The tumour may at the same time be bandaged so as to compress its vessels, and thus empty them. This method does not affect the proximal haamorrhage, which may be prevented by one of the following methods :—1. The application of the aortic com- pressor ; 2. Esmarch's bandage ; 3. The application of a screw compressor to the root of the tumour. Either of these methods may be conjoined with position. The use of the compressor is especially advocated by Dr. Turner, a medical missionary at Samoa, who has removed no fewer than 138 of these tumours. The clamp used by Dr. Turner consists of two parallel bars of sufficient length, united by two long upright screws worked by nuts. After the tumour has been raised and emptied of its blood, the compressor is applied to the neck and screwed down tight, when the operation is proceeded with. The directions given by Dr. Turner for the safe performance of the operation are as follows :—The patient having been anesthetized, the clamp applied, and the tumour emptied of its blood by pressure, the clamp must be screwed home. The tumour, if small, may then be raised with the hands ; if large, two strong iiooks should be passed deeply into the leathery skin at the bottom, and being attached to a block and tackle fixed to the ceiling, the whole mass must be raised so that its posterior part is brought into view. A couple of skin flaps about 1| inch long are then made here at its neck. The tumour is then lowered and allowed to fall forward. Two or three skin flaps are now to be made from tbe front and sides of the tumour, the front flap being intended to cover in the penis when dissected out : one should be of sufficient size for this purpose. The lateral flaps are intended to cover in the testes. The penis must next be sought for. In small tumours where it lies super- ficially, it is easily found. In larger ones where deeply buried, it is best reached by slitting up the aperture through which the urine escapes, going m search of the glans penis, and then dissecting out the organ, which should be held up against the abdomen. The testes are next to be sought for by cutting diagonally, and with finger and knife they must be cleared and the cords followed up. By a few strokes of the knife the mass is then removed A large number of vessels—from 30 to 40—may require ligature in the stump • they are tied as the clamp is gradually loosened. The skin flaps are then brought together over the penis and testes, and the wound treated on ordinary principles. Some Surgeons object to the formation of skin flaps with the view of covering in the penis and testes, as tending to favour recurrence of the disease. But as Dr. Turner very truly remarks, the skin on the neck of the tumour is generally healthy, being merely dragged down from the parts above the scrotum.