LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. cartilages are usually flattened, with a lobulated irregular border, and fre- quently contain true bone in their central parts ; sometimes they may be partly calcified, but contain no true osseous tissue. They may attain a size of more than one inch in their greatest diameter. They are usually smgle, but occasionally four or five may be found in the same joint. There is strong reason to believe that these cartilaginous bodies may increase in size after becoming loose in the joint. 3. Numerous cases have been recorded in which the loose body was believed to be a piece of one of the articular cartilages broken off by mechanical violence. This variety presents the ordinary appearance of articular cartilage, and may usually be recognised by having one smooth surface, while the opposite side has small gritty fragments of bone attached to it, which have been torn from the cancellous tissue beneath. Humphry of Cambridge, whilst admitting the existence of this variety, points out that a loose cartilage formed in the synovial membrane, and containing a bony nucleus, may gradually come to resemble closely a piece of articular cartilage by the wearing away of its surface on one side and exposure of the bone within. The loose cartilage may gradually wear for itself a bed in one of the articular surfaces and thus still further resemble a portion removed by an injury. Loose cartilages of all kinds are most commonly met with in the knee, but not uncommonly occur in the elbow or the joint of the lower jaw, and occa- sionally in the shoulder. Symptoms.—The severity of the symptoms will to a great extent depend upon the mobility of the loose cartilage, and its consequent greater or less liability to be nipped between the opposite articular surfaces in the movements of the joint. When these bodies are tolerably firmly attached to the synovial membrane, they may merely cause weakness of the joint, with occasional synovial effusion. When loose they usually give rise to a very distinct train of symptoms. The most marked of these is the very severe pain which occurs in particular movements of the limb. This comes on suddenly, aiid is often so intense as to cause faintness or sickness. It is usually followed by a degree of synovial inflammation, and by relaxation of the ligaments. These attacks of sudden pain come on at varying intervals, as the result of movements of the joint: they commonly happen in the knee whilst the patient is walking. It is difficult to say to what this severe pain is due. Eichet thinks it may be owing to the synovial membrane being pinched between the foreign body and one of the articular surfaces. I think that it is most probably due to the foreign body being drawn in between the opposite surfaces of the joint, when these are separated anteriorly in the act of flexion of the knee, and then, when the limb is extended, acting as a wedge between these, tending to keep them separate and interfering with the complete straightening of the limb. In consequence of this wedge-like action of the loose cartilage the ligaments are violently stretched, and the sickening pain consequent on this is experienced, followed, us happens in a violent sprain, by rapid synovial effusion. Ligaments may be cut without much suffering, but, on account of the nature of the nerve endings in them, they cannot be stretched, either by accident or disease, with- out the most severe pain. In some cases the loose cartilage can be felt under the capsule, by cari7ing the finger over the joint, slipping back when pressure is exercised upon it, and often possessing great molDility, gliding from one side of the joint to the other, so as to be extremely difficult to fix.