1^42 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. ™col hv h T""' • instrument ha, Z The means adopted in the Curative Treatment of hydrocele are verv Tn nrrlm- fi.of fi , ' 3. Partial excision of the sac. la oidei that the radical cure, in whichever way undertaken, should be safe been allowed to attain a chronic condition, more particularly if the hydrocele ?t wm r 11 T\ "''^^ attaining too large a s t will be well to adopt palliative tapping once or twice before attempting the radical cure Care must also be taken to remove all inflammation and tender- ness abou the testis before having recourse to this mode of treatment. If attention be not paid to this, recurrence of the hydrocele will probably ensue The treatment by Injection is that which is commonly employed. It consists m tapping the tumour in the usual way, and then throwing a sufficient quantity of stimulating fluid into the tunica vaginalis through the cannula to excite a moderate degree of inflammation in it. Port-wine, or a solution of the sulphate of zinc of the strength of 51 to ^xij, was formerly employed, but their use has been entirely abandoned since the introduction of iodine and carbohc acid for the purpose. _ Injection of Iodine—The injection of tincture of iodine, originally introduced by Sir J. R. Martin, whilst practising at Calcutta, is commonly regarded as a more certain and safe mode of treatment than any other Many Surgeons prefer the liquor iodi to the tincture, believing it to be more certain in its effect. The operation is performed as follows : The hydrocele is tapped in the usual way and all the fluid withdrawn. If the patient dreads the pain, one drachm of a 5 per cent, solution of cocaine may be injected through the cannula and allowed a few minutes to render the part ansesthetic. The amount of the tincture of iodine injected should vary from two drachms to half an ounce, according to the size of the hydrocele. It is injected with a glass syringe, which must fit the cannula. After injection the Surgeon should rub the scrotum gently over the testis, so as to diffuse the injection equally throughout the sac. One half the quantity thrown in should then be allowed to escape, the cannula should be removed, and the puncture closed with a piece of strapping or wool and collodion. The cannula used for this purpose should be made of platinum and not of silver, which is apt to become corroded and made brittle by the iodine. A good deal of inflammation, with fresh effusion into the sac, will generally be set up, usually accompanied by subacute inflam- mation of the testicle. The patient should therefore keep in the recumbent position for a few days with the testicle raised. In favourable cases the effusion slowly and completely disappears, but for several weeks at least a suspender should be worn. Useful as the iodine injection is, it sometimes fails in producing a radical cure of the hydrocele. This is sometimes due to the injection failing to bring