3i6 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. I'OKM UK SAKCOMA. , NGIOH- BOURINO SOFT TJ A rnrj LYMI'llATIC GLANDH. REOI'RRKD LOCALLY AFTKR REMOVAL. INFECTKlj THE KYBTEM GENE- RALLY. Periostkal :— 1 or ecu u 1 er cent. Spindle-cellud ...... U 0 00 100- Round-celled 54 7-()9 50 6G-66 Ossifying iO 6-25 41 (;5-62 ENTBAL:— Round-celled 00 8'33 25 Spindle-celled 18 0 20 23-07 Myeloid 12 0 8 22-72 When internal organs become affected, the secondary growths will generally be found in the lung, and sometimes also in the liver and other viscera. The secondary tumours, as a rule, reproduce the special features of the primary, such as ossification, calcification, development of cartilage, &c. (Fig. 528). In Central Sarcoma of Bone the tumour springs from the cancellous tissue or the medullary canal. It is usually situated at or about one articular end, expanding the bone, until in many cases a thin shell only is left surround- ing the mass. The symptoms may at first closely resemble those of chronic periostitis and osteitis, or abscess of bone, the only means of diagnosis some- times being the application of a tre- phine. In most cases, however, the pain is not so severe as in chronic in- flammatory affections. However exten- sively the articular end of the bone may be destroyed by the tumour, the cartilage of the neighbouring joint never becomes implicated. The close proximity of the tumour to the joint may lead to the disease being mistaken for tuberculous disease of the articula- tion, as I have more than once seen happen in myeloid sarcoma of the lower end of the femur. The cartilage, how- ever, being undestroyed, there is in these cases usually a considerably greater degree of movement than is possible in tuberculous disease. Central sarcoma, so ong as the disease is confined within the walls of bone, develops but slowly nd shows but Httle tendency to infect the system, but when once it extends beyond andimpHcates the soft parts, the danger becomes greatly increased. Spontane- ous fracture is not uncommon. Central sarcomata are of four kinds, myeloid or giant-celled, spindle-celled, round-celled, and mixed spindle- and roand- celled These are further modified by the formation of cysts, calcification, ossification, and the development of cartilage. Eighty-one cases collected by Butlin showed the following structure : round-celled 22, of which 17 were Fig. 529,—Myeloid Sarcoma of Head of Tibia. The tumour is extensively cystic.