8 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. It is on the local treatment that we have chiefly to rely, and the only efficient means are those by which the morbid growth is completely destroyed. In the milder form, non-uicerative lupus, or lupus non exedens, an attempt may however be made to arrest the disease without actual destruction of the growth. For this purpose mercurial plaster, painting with tincture of iodine, or with a strong solution of nitrate of silver, and the a])plication of zinc or carbonate of lead ointment have sometimes been found efficacious. Lotions containing glycerine are especially useful as they prevent the surface from becoming dry and harsh. If the disease be situated on the face, care must be; taken to avoid exposure to cold winds, dust, &c. Volkmann recommends punctiform scarification by means of an instrument composed of several small blades set closely together. The object of this treatment is to obliterate the vessels and thus arrest the growth and promote absorption of the morbid pro- ducts. Should these methods fail, the only hope of arrest consists in destroy- ing the diseased tissue. If it be limited in extent, the patch may be excised, but not unfrequently the cicatrix becomes prominent and irregular from a fibroid growth resembling keloid. In lupus exedens destruction of the growth is the only treatment which holds out any prospect of success. In doing this the means adopted must be efficient. Feeble caustics only irritate the parts and aggravate the disease. The growth may be completely removed by excision, by scraping, by caustics, and by the actual cautery. Small isolated patches in the early stage of the disease may conveniently be treated by excision. This has also been practised recently in more extensive cases, the resulting raw surface being covered with skin grafts by Thiersch's method. Scraping gives, however, excellent results, and as a general plan of treatment can be strongly recommended. It is done by means of "sharp spoons" (Vol. I., Fig. 96, p. 265). The soft tissue of the growth is easily removed, and the sensation given by the denser healthy tissues beneath shows when the operation has been carried far enough. The bleeding is very free, but is easily arrested by pressure with dry cotton-wool. The small cavity may then be filled with a plug of wool soaked in a solution of perchloride of mercury (1 in 500) in order to destroy any bacilli that may have been left behind. In bad cases it is advisable to apply some caustic to the scraped surface to ensure the complete destruction of the growth. One of the best materials for this purpose is liquefied carbolic acid freely apphed with a small piece of sponge held in forceps. Solid nitrate of silver, chloride of zmc, acid nitrate of mercury, and fuming nitric acid have aU been recommended, and are all efficient. The actual cautery is easily controlled, and can often be used when other caustics are inapplicable. In most cases Paquelm's thermo-cautei-y is the best, but in deep cavities, as the mouth or nose, the galvanic cautery is more easily applied. . ^^ • a +• If when the case comes under observation there is considerable inflammation round the patch, it is better to subdue this by warm moist applications before adopting any of the above modes of treatment. _ After the growth has been destroyed healthy granulations spring up and the sore must be treated on ordinary principles. Vasehne and iodoform ointment often seems to promote the healthy heahng of the raw surface. However successful the treatment may appear at first relapses are very common but in a large number of cases as life advances the disease seems to become ess acute, and finally ceases to reappear. The cicatrix that forms