DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 494 (Fig. 611). This consists of two bars of soft iron pas8iii<r on each side of tin spine and accurately moulded to it, and united between the shoulders by a cr<i-^ bar, from the middle of which a vertical curved bar passes up behind the neck to above the middle of the head. At the end of this is a transverse arched bar of iron fixed on a pivot, so as to allow of rotation. To this the head - suspended by a padded collar passing beneath the jaw and occiput. The two upright bars are enclosed between the layers of the plaster jacket, and thus the weight of the head is transmitted directly to the pelvis. Jackets made of softened leather or " poroplastic " felt may be used instead of the plasty apparatus. They must be moulded to the patient, either while he is suspen( The ■jury or lying upon his back, with the arms well raised above the head mast" can be fitted to these if required For very young children a double Thomas's hip-splint, from the up] transverse bar of which a well padded head-rest extends upwards, will found a very efiicient means of ensuring rest. The child can be carried by the nurse or moved in bed without the least disturbance of the spine. Phelps of New York has introduced a wooden l^ox-splint for the treatment of spinal disease in young children, which is highly spoken of by Watson Cheyne, and has the advantage that, if necessary, extension can be used with it. The splint consists of a wooden trough in which the patient lies, and which at its lower end is con- tinued into two narrow troughs for the lower limbs. The box is about six inches deep, and must be broader than the patient, so as to allow room for padding. The sides are hollowed out for the arms, and opposite the buttocks the bottom of the box is cut away to allow defaecation. The patient lies on a mattress, pads are an-anged between the patient and the sides of the box, and a broad bandage carried around all. The feet are bandaged to vertical pieces of wood attached to the ends of the leg-troughs, and if necessary elastic extension can be carried from the head to the upper end of the splint. When it is necessary to remove the splint, this should be done by lifting it off the child in the prone position. Whatever apparatus may be used it is of the utmost importance that the patient should not be allowed to dispense with proper support for at least six months after all pain or other signs of active disease have disappeared, other- wise he is almost certain to suffer from a speedy relapse. As before stated, the mode of treatment adopted must vary with the seat of the disease, the age and the circumstances of the patient. Treatment by the recumbent position alone is almost impossible amongst the children of the poor, as it requires constant attention from a nurse and a properly constructed couch which can be wheeled into the open air whenever possible. Even amongst the rich it is well to combine the recumbent position with the applica- tion of a leather or poroplastic splint. For the great majority of cases Sayre's plaster jacket is the most efficient apparatus. It requires no materials that are not always at hand, and can be applied by the Surgeon without the Fig. Gil.—Apparatus for Disease of Cervical or Upper Dorsal Spine. Plaster Jaclcet witli " Jury Mast." (Sayre.) 1