720 DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. much may be done by the repeated passage of conical bougies, which the patient may be taught to use for himself. In this way he may succeed in keeping the canal patent ; but should he neglect the treatment a relapse s])eedily follows. In introducing bougies into the stricture there is often a good deal of difficulty, more particularly when the constriction commences suddenly and the a'sophagus is dilated above it. This may, however, be overcome in most cases by patience and care. Besides the simple dilatation by bougies, various other modes of treatment analogous to those adopted in stricture of the urethra have been tried with more or less success. I have in some cases seen temporary benefit result from the use of a catheter, surrounded by a tube of vulcanized india-rubber, which admitted of dilatation by the injection of water or air when introduced through the stricture ; or from the employment of a tubular instrument, by passing a long small-sized bougie through the constriction, and then slipping over it a gum elastic catheter with a rounded terminal aperture. It is needless to observe that, in the treatment of stricture of the oesophagus with bougies, no force should be used, lest the walls of the canal be perforated. Various instruments have also been invented for mechanical dilatation by separation of metal blades by a screw action, but the results obtained by their use have not as a rule been satisfactory. Internal division of the stricture by a concealed knife passed through it has also been attempted. Gross collected 18 cases in which this operation was performed. Of these 2 died of peritonitis, 2 from the effects of complete division of the oesophagus, 1 from hsemorrhage, and 1 from pleurisy ; and of the survivors only 3 seemed to be really benefited. In three cases of simple stricture at the cardiac orifice Loreta dilated the lower end from an opening made in the stomach, which was closed at once ; all recovered. Kendal Franks has collected 18 other cases, including one of his own, in which this so-called '•' retrograde dilata- tion "has been practised with very satisfactory results. If other means fail, as they most commonly do, the operation of gastrostomy must be performed as in malignant stricture ; there is a fair hope of thus restoring the patient to tolerable health, especially in cases of cicatricial strictures after swallowing caustics in children. In two such cases Glutton and Morgan were able subse- quently to dilate the stricture and allow the gastric fistula to close. In a case in which Eve performed oesophagotomy for the removal of a Symonds's tube which had become impacted in a fibrous stricture, the latter w-as freely divided with a most satisfactory result. In malignant siriciure a Symonds's tube has in some instances been used with success (p. 719), but in most cases the passage of a long oesophageal tube is required, and should be continued as long as plenty of nourishing food can be administered through it. Sooner or later this treatment generally becomes impossible on account of the contraction of the stricture, or the pain or hEemorrhage caused by the passage of the instrument. Under these circum- stances the choice lies between the use of nutritive enemata and the perform- ance of gastrostomy as proposed by Sedillot. By Gastrostomy is meant making a fistulous opening into the stomach by which food can be du-ectly introduced. If this operation is to take its place as a useful means of treatment, it should be pei-formed as soon as any real difficulty occurs m feeding the patient with a tube, and before he is reduced to a hopeless condition by prolonged starvation. By the use of enemata I have known