SYrillLITIC NECROSIS OF CRANIAL BONES 297 where by the excision of the dead bone, the end of the finger may be preserved ; also in necrosis of some of the metatarsal and tarsal bones, or those of the tore- arm, and the fibula. Subperiosteal resection in cases of acute necrosis has already been alluded to (p. 280). , It will be convenient to consider here the chief varieties of necrosis and caries as they affect the cranial bones, sternum and ribs, leaving the consideration of the bones of the extremities and of the spine for subsequent chapters. Cranial Bones.—Necrosis and septic osteomyelitis of the bones of the skull following injury have already been considered (Vol. I., p. 718). Necrosis and caries may also'arise as the result of syphilis or tubercle. SyphiHs.—In considering the syphilitic lesions of bones we have seen that the flat bones of the vault of the skull are frequently affected, and as the result of the breaking down of a subperiosteal gumma extensive caries or necrosis may occm\ The frontal bone is most frequently affected, and in the case of any of the bones of the vault, different degrees of necrosis may be met with. In one form, the outer table alone is affected ; this perishes, separates, and • exfoliates, granulations spring up from the outer surface of the inner table, and a process of repair is thus established. In the second form of the disease, the whole thickness of the skull necroses, separates from the dura mater and sun-ounding healthy bone in the usual way, and may be detached in large irregularly shaped pieces, sometimes of large size, occupying several square inches. In the third form, the necrosis is hard, dry, rough, and pitted and worm-eaten, penetrating through the diploe to the inner table, separating very slowly, and lasting an indefinite period. Syphilitic necrosis may also affect the bones of the base of the skull, especially the ethmoid and sphenoid. In the former case sequestra may sometimes be extracted through the nostrils, and in one extraordinary case under my care in University College Hospital, I removed through the mouth the whole body of the sphenoid bone. The patient, a man agod forty-three, had suffered from syphilis for fifteen years, and from disease of the bones of the nose and upper jaw for three years. The anterior part of the hard palate was destroyed, and it was through the fissure so formed that I removed the bone. The fragment included the sella Turcica, and the roots of the pterygoid processes, but the clinoid processes could not be recognised. The patient had suffered from no cerebral symptoms except occasional headache and some loss of memory. He made a good recovery. The Signs of syphilitic necrosis of the cranial bones are very obvious. When the vault or forehead is affected, there is tenderness, with some puffiness, and gradual elevation of the scalp into an abscess. When this is opened, the necrosed bone may be felt or seen lying bare, at the bottom of a sinus or unhealed ulcer. When the sphenoid or the ethmoid is affected, deep pains in the head, persistent oedema of the eyelids, and fetid discharge from the nose, will reveal the nature and seat of the mischief. The local Treatment of syphilitic necrosis and caries of the cranial bones will vary according to the nature and the seat of the disease. In the dry pitted variety, exposing and scraping the diseased osseous surface, or the appUcation of a strong solution of sulphuric acid will often bring about a healthy action, provided the disease have not penetrated too deeply. Should there be reason to think that the inner table has been perforated, it will probably be safer to leave the case to the reparative processes of nature than to