DISEASES OF JOINTS. 348 or inlilfci-atiDg form (see Vol. L, p. 1080). The most important conditions moi with are thus described by Watson Choyne. In the first and most comm<jn form the thickened membrane is composed of two layers: an inner one, soft, often cascating and consisting of tuberculous tissue; and an outer layer composed of swollen vascular fibrous tissue. In another Ibrm the tubercle is deposited in the substance of the membrane, which forms a single tough layer, in which caseation may occur and chronic abscesses be formed. Lastly, the s^movial membrane may be converted into a thick mass of swollen fibrous tissue, in which the tubercles are few in number, and in parts entirely absent. Cheyne finds that the first variety is usually due to secondary infection of synovial membrane from an osseous deposit. Here the tuberculous tissue is superficial and can be removed by scraping, but in the other forms the dense fibrous tissue can be removed completely only by dissection. Tuberculous joint diseases not unfrequently follow sprains and other slight injuries. In such cases it is probable that the damage to the tissues thus produced renders them favourable to the growth of the tubercle bacillus, which reaches them by the blood stream, in some cases no doubt from a pre-existing caseous focus elsewhere. Symptoms.—The disease in many cases supervenes slowly on some slight injury, but in others no definite cause can be assigned for its appearance, and the exact date of its commencement is often difficult to ascertain. It may commence as the chronic form of synovitis (see Chronic Synovitis, p. 328) in a strumous subject, assuming its peculiar characters at a later period. It is most frequently met with in children and females. The disease begins gradually with some pain and stiffness in the joint, causing a shght hmp in walking if a joint in the lower limb is affected. The pain is increased after any unusual exertion, and may then be severe enough to oblige the patient to rest for a day or two, when the symptoms usually subside. If the joint be examined during this stage, there will usually be found some slight limitation of movement, complete extension or flexion causing pain. If the joint be superficial, as the knee, elbow, or ankle, it will be seen to be swollen. The natural hollows are less clearly marked than in health, or even completely obHterated. The sweUing at this stage takes the form of the distended synovial cavity, as in synovitis with effusion, but it does not give the same sense of fluctuation, being semi-elastic and pulpy. Sometimes, however, it is so soft that it is readily mistaken for fluid, even by the practised hand. In the knee it may be distinguished by observing that, though the patella is raised, it cannot be pushed down with a distinct concussion on the femur, as in synovitis with eff"usion. As the disease advances the joint becomes more enlarged, and as the ligaments become implicated the swelling loses the outHne of the synovial membrane and assumes a more rounded or fusiform outline, the bony prominences being effaced by a uniform, doughy, semi-elastic or pulpy swelling. The integuments covering it preserve their white colour ; hence the name " white swelling " which has been applied to the disease. Usually but little pain is felt when the limb is at rest, but motion becomes more and more painful, till it is no longer possible to use the hmb. The posi- tion assumed by the limb at this time is that in which the patient has most ease, viz. that of semi-flexion, and with this there is a considerable degree of stiffness and rigidity. In this stage the inflammation commonly extends to the periosteum covering the articular ends, which become slightly