CYSTS. OF TEE BREAST. ^8l; It occasionally happens that if ,a glandular iorcliict cyst'projects prominently beneath the skin, the latter, together with the subjacent cyst wall, may give way and expose its interior. If the cyst contains an iiitracystic growth this may rapidly protrude through the opening and form a fungating mass, with an appearance of considerable malignancy. Mtiltiple Cysts arising in the breast are met with : 1. In connexion with chronic interstitial mastitis ; 2. During involution of the gland ; and 3. As a true cystic degeneration of the mamma. 1. The cysts which are so frequently met with in lobules of the breast affected by chronic interstitial inBammation seldom reach any large size. They have been described at page 775. 2. Involution Cysts are not uncommon in the indurated and atrophied breasts of old women. They are of no great practical importance, and doubtless result from consLriction of the gland tissue by the overgrowth of fibrous tissue around it. 3. Cystic Degeneration of the Mamma is characterized by a wide-spread tendency to the formation of cysts in the glandular tissue, which may, in advanced cases, reach such a degree that the whole breast is converted into a mass of cysts bound together by connective tissue. In the majority of cases the disease begins in a single lohule, but sooner or later it tends to affect other parts of the same breast, and often the opposite one. This remark- able disease has received considerable attention at the hands of French nathn In the eai y stages the cysts appear as hard rounded tumours in a lobule of the breast substance, and around these .a. coarsely granular sensation i produced by the minute cysts with which the gland is iklfcrated. "r^^^^^^^^^ other lobules undergo s.mdar changes, until the whole breast presentriS haracters, and may be considerably enlarged. Discharge from he nippT not uncommon ; this may be blood-stained, probably ft-om the pres ncc n? vascular mtracystic growths in some of the cysts ^ Nothmg definite is known concerning the causation of this disease but in As a good example of the disease the followiu- case mav be trivpn a l-cl n.t, could be felt scattered Wough bl'tf^b ^ Fig. 778.-puct PcapiUoma of Breast. An incision has been made into the deep surface of the gland.