ANEURISM. more or less speedily followed the operation ; in the remaining 13 cases the patien 8 survived the effect of the ligature of the artery, though^in veJ^ew Wnv ^ ^'-'^ '"^"'^ ^^'^ f^'' ^^J^'^l^ the operation C peifoimed Ihis operation will be considered more in detail in speaking ot the particular cases m which it has been practised (see Chap XLIV ) Indications and Contra-indications of Ligature.-Ligature of an artery for aneurism, by the Hunterian method, succeeds best in those cai5es in which the tumour is circumscribed, of moderate size, slow in its growth laving a tendency to consolidation, and unaccompanied by much oedema of tlie limb. When the aneurism is undergoing spontaneous cure, no surgical interference should be employed, but the case should be left to nature i, this way it occasionally happens, during the preparatory treatment of the disease, that the aneurism becomes consolidated. Before the Surgeon proceeds to cut down upon an artery with the view ^, tying it, he should, as far as practicable, ascertain by a careful examination oi« It, whether it appears to be in a healthy state at the point at which he is aboufe to tie It. He should feel along its course to ascertain if it be smooth, easib compressible, and natural to the feel ; if it be hard, incompressible, indicative of calcification ; if it feel broader than natural; if a bruit be heard in it oi^ applying the stethoscope. If there be evidence of degeneration or dilatation of its coats, great caution should be used in attempting to hgature it. Should the deligation of a diseased artery become unavoidable, the chromic catgut, oi the tendon ligature, would probably be the best material for the purpose. It has occasionally happened to Surgeons that they have cut down upon aq artery with the intention of tying it, and found it in so diseased a state that the application of the ligature was impracticable, and that it became necessary to close the wound without completing the operation. Listen and Aston Key have both had the candour to record such cases. In one case that happened to me in which it was thought necessary to tie the superficial femoral for popliteal aneurism, I found, on cutting down on the artery, that there was aJi small aneurismal dilatation just below the origin of the profunda, and a tubular dilatation of the artery below this, rendering the apphcation of a ligature utterly impracticable. I afterwards tied the external iHac, but unsuccessfully. It must also be remembered that, in such cases as these, the vein is usually adherent, and consequently liable to perforation in passing the aneurism needle between it and the artery. And even could deligation be practised, there would be considerable danger of secondary haemorrhage at an early period in an artery incapable of obliteration in the normal w'ay. No operation should be performed when there is any serious disease of the heart, or in cases of multiple aneurism where the second tumour is situated internally ; but it has happened that t-wo aneurisms in one limb, as of the popliteal and femoral arteries, have been cured by one hgature applied to the external iliac. Two aneurisms seated in corresponding parts of opposite^ limbs, affecting, for instance, the two popliteal arteries, may be successfully * operated upon. But, if two aneurisms be seated on different parts of the* body, as the axilla and groin for instance, at the same time, extensive disease off the arteries is usually indicated, and it certainly would not be expedient to operate. - In certain cases, the Hunterian operation seldom succeeds. This happens < in those instances in which it is necessary to apply the ligature very close to » the sac, so as indeed rather to perform Anel's operation, as here there is the ^ danger of wounding the sac or of inflammation subsequently occurriug around i i