LATERAL LITHOTOMY: EXTRACTION OF THE STONE. 1055 of the bladder. As the knife is withdrawn, the left index-finger_ is pushed forwards into the aperture in the prostate, which is then dilated by its pressure to a sufficient extent for the introduction of the forceps, which are slipped in as the finger is withdrawn, and for the extraction of the stone. This part of the operation may very conveniently be performed, as was usually done by Listen, at the moment when the Surgeon is stooping down, engaged in selectino- his forceps. The dilatation of the prostate is readily effected ; tor this structure, though dense, is friable, and breaks down easily under somewhat forcible pressure with the finger. In this way, by a moderate section of the apex of the prostate, followed by simple dilatation with the finger, sufficient space will be obtained for the extraction of all moderate-sized calculi, without the employment of any violence. But another obstacle exists which will prevent the dilatation of the neck of the bladder to any very material extent, without an amount of bruising, or laceration, or even rupture that would probably prove fatal to the patient. This obstacle consists of a firm resisting tissue, which has been described by Tyrrell as " an elastic ring," surrounding the neck of the bladder ; by Liston as " a fibrous or ligamentous band surrounding the orifice of the bladder, into which the muscular fibres of the organ are inserted." If this ring or band be ruptured, either by the finger or by the expansion of the forceps, fatal conse- quences will ensue ; but if it be divided, the other tissues, as Liston obsei-ves, will yield to an inconceivable extent, without injury to the recto-vesical fascia. The division of this ring must be practised only to a very hmited extent. I believe that it is always effected in the act of pushing the scalpel inwards into the bladder ; a mere notching of the fibres of the ring, indeed, is sufficient to allow the requisite expansion to take place when pressure is applied. In thus describing the mode of incising the prostate and neck of the bladder, I have generally used the term " dilatation ; " and I believe that, by a simple process of dilatation or expansion of these parts, and without any violence whatever, small calculi under an inch in diameter may be extracted. But in removing stones of greater magnitude than this, I believe that the process of expansion of the prostate and neck of the bladder, whether effected by the finger, by a blunt gorget, or by the opening up of the blades of the forceps, is a process of laceration rather than of dilatation, as I have frequently had occasion to observe in experiments made on the dead subject. If this lacera- tion be, however, confined to the substance of the prostate, and do not extend through the lateral ligament of the bladder, no harm results. It is difficult, with ordinary force, to lacerate the dense ligament. This structure, therefore, remains as a barrier between the pelvic areolar tissue and the external wound, preventing the possibility of the infiltration of urine into the subperitoneal areolar tissue, and lessening materially the chance of diffuse inflammation. But if, in the withdrawal of the stone, or by an undue expansion of the blades of the forceps, the Surgeon feel the sudden giving way of a tense annular structure, he may be sure that the lateral ligament has been torn, and fatal mischief will probably ensue. Extraction of the Stone.—A forceps of sufficient length, of a size pro- portioned to that of the calculus, and previously warmed by immersion in tepid water, must be slid along the index-finger, which is kept in the wound, and by which the neck of the bladder should be drawn somewhat down so as to meet the instrument. In this way, also, the stone may often be fixed by