DISEASES OF BURSyE. whom this bursa had suppurated ; and not only the bursa but also the integu- ments covermg it had slouyhed away, leaving a circular ulcer as large as tlx- palm of the hand, having a flabby surface, and undermined, purple edges. The patella was not exposed. Under ordinary treatment, the ulcer slowly healed. 2. Chronic Enlargements.—In the second variety of disease of tin bursa patellas there is eulargemeut of the bursa without evident signs of inflammation, owing to the accumulation within it of bursal fluid, or of this fluid mixed with solid bodies, or of solid fibroid deposits. Simple Enlargement, or Dropsy of the Bursa, is an accumulation of clear serous fluid within it. Repeated pressure, as in kneeling, is the common cause of this aflFcction ; hence it frequently occurs in housemaids, and con- stitutes the true "housemaid's knee." But it is also common in other people, whose vocation necessitates long-continued kneeling. One case of the affection m University College Hospital was that of a carpet-layer, a man aged thirty, who, in consequence of habitually kneeling upon the left knee in laying dowu carpets, had a tumour there as large as an orange, indolent, soft and fluctuating —evidently an enlai'ged bursa. The Treatment of these tumours is very simple. If the effusion has taken place somewhat rapidly, and distinctly in connexion with an injury, the applica- tion of tincture of iodine, or a blister, will induce the absorption of the fluid. When the disease is more chronic, these measures usually fail. The fluid may (hen be withdrawn by means of the aspirator and pressure applied with an india-rubber bandage. If this fail, antiseptic drainage should be tried. A small puncture is made, and a drainage-tube inserted with all antiseptic precautions. In many cases drainage for a week or ten days will suffice to correct the tendency to over-secretion without any inflammation or suppuration being set up. The result is, however, made more certain by exciting a slight degree of simple inflammation by injecting the cavity at the time the tube is inserted with carbolic acid lotion (1 in 20), or solution of chloride of zinc (20 gr. to ^j), or tincture of iodine. Should this also fail the sac should be dissected ouc in the same way as a solid bursa. Chronic Enlargement with Melon-seed bodies.—This affection is closely allied to the last, and appears to be an advanced degree of it. It consists in a chronic enlargement of the bursa, the coats of which are more or less thickened. The contents of the enlarged bursa consist of a dark fluid, in which float a number of smooth oval bodies, of the size and shape of melon- seeds. I have seen this condition both in the male and in the female. It may be distinguished from simple enlargement of the bursa, by the peculiar crackhng sensation which is communicated to the hand when the tumour is manipulated. This arises from the melon-seed bodies floating about and rubbing against each other. Most probably some of these cases are tuberculous as in the similar conditions in the sheaths of tendons, but tuberculous disease is certainly rare in the bursa patellas. The Treatment consists in making an incision free enough to allow the melon- seed bodies to pass out. The cavity may then be syringed out with carbolic or mercurial lotion, to ensure the removal of all the solid bodies ; a drainage-tube is then inserted and retained for a week or ten days, the wound being treated with some form of antiseptic dressing. If the wall be much thickened the whoK' bursa should be dissected out. Solid Tumours of the bursa patellae are by many supposed to be the