PHYSICAL CHARACTERS OF CALCULI. 1033 this way ; besides which, three others were loose in the bladder. AVhen two or more calculi occur they are often uniform in shape, size, and weight, one being the exact counterpart of the other. This symmetry is remarkable when the calculi are very numerous, dozens of small stones of exactly the same size, shape, and weight, being met with. One large calculus is veiy rarely, if ever, found associated with numerous small ones. When there are several calcali in the bladder, the friction of one against another usually causes the opposing surfaces to become smooth, thus consti- tuting " facets " (Fig. 845). In some cases, however, when the calculi are numerous, there are no signs of attrition. This is probably owing to the bladder being atonic, always containing urine, and thus not compressing and grinding the calculi against one another. In a patient of mine who had fifteen calculi in his bladder, all the stones were round, about the size and shape of marbles, without any facets. In other cases, again, there may be more facets on one calculus than companion calculi in the bladder. A second stone may occasion two or even three facets on the first, having rolled first to one and then to the other side of it. Spontaneous Fracture of a Calculus will sometimes occur within the bladder. This has been met with only in uric acid calculi, and may happen to a stone that is single, or to one among many. Civiale suggested that the I fracture might be due to the pressure of a hypertrophied bladder, and others have supposed that it might be caused by concussion of one stone against another, but neither of these theories has any evidence to support it. In the museum of University College is a calculus removed as it were in the act of disintegrating. Apparently by a process of shrinking of the older parts of the stone, fissures have formed concentrically round the nucleus, and the zones thus formed are divided transversely by other fissures. The urine has soaked into these and deposited a small quantity of soft white phosphatic matter, showing that the shrinking and fissuring had occurred before removal. The stone shows great tendency to break up into segments, and has in part done so. Where spontaneous fracture occurs great irritability of the bladder is set up. In some cases the fragments become agglomerated together by the deposit of a quantity of phosphatic matter upon and around them. In other cases, the different fragments may each form the nucleus of a fresh calculus, so that the bladder may afterwards contain numerous concretions. Physical Characters.—The Size of calculi varies from that of a hemp- seed or pin's head to a concretion of immense magnitude. One of the largest with which I am acquainted is a calculus removed by the suprapubic operation by Uytterhoeven of Brussels ; it is pyriforiu, and measures 19| inches in its longest circumference, and 12| inches round at its broadest part, being (5^ inches long and about 4 wide. In the celebrated case of Sir W. Ogilvie, Cline attempted, but failed, to extract a calculus measuring 16 inches round one axis and 14 round the other. These enormous concretions are happily seldom met with at the present day ; the usual size of stones removed by operation being from about one to two inches in the longest diameter, somewhat narrow, and perhaps flattened. The Weight of calculi varies from a few grains to several ounces ; the commonest weight is from three drachms to about one ounce, reaching occasionally from three to six ounces ; from this they may range upwards until several pounds are reached. Thus, in Cline's case the stone weio-hed I