'forcible expansion in stricture. operation bo done slowly, little if any bleeding --^^s and the™ evidence of deep laceration of the wall of. the urethra at the ^tnctuied spot. A aige gamiastic catheter may then be P-^^d, and the urine dm^^^^^^^^ usually necessary to leave the catheter in the bladder, though there can oe nu Ob el^^^^^^^ this for forty-eight hours, after which the patient may have one passed occasionally in order to maintain the dilatation. c The rupture or splitting of the stricture by an instrument acting on tl e DrincipL 0 a Wedge! was "recommended by Reybard, and very extensively Tp Id by Holt. The instrument used by him is represented - the accom- panvino- fioure (Fig. 921). It consists of two grooved metallic blades joined rthe^ex«.^ Between these a tube is slipped along a wn., which in its descent separates the blades at a considerable angle, and thus splits up the stricture In this way the contracted part of the urethra is at once enlarged to its normal diameter, so as to admit a full-sized catheter by which the urine is then drawn off. The introduction of the catheter should be had recourse to at first on alternate days, and afterwards at longer intervals, aoit believes that the effects of the dilatation are entirely confined to the morbid contrac- tion, the healthy portion of the urethra not being injuriously disturbed by tne expansion of the instrument. . . Berkeley Hill invented a modification of the dilators previously m use Fig. 921.—Holt's Instrument for Splitting Strictures. which presents several advantages. He thus describes it : "The instrument consists Of a split sound, which equals in calibre a No. 2 or 3 catheter. The halves of the split sound can be separated by passing between them a wedge fixed on a slender stem. The wedge is prevented, by two dovetail grooves at its hinder part, from leaving the sound which acts as a guide during the passage of the wedge down the urethra." " The advantages claimed for this instrument are : simplicity of construction ; the central guide of Holt's in- strument is not needed, hence the split sound can be passed through narrower strictures. Next and chiefly, diminution of resistance, and consequently the more immediate application of the rupturing force—the wedge—to the impedi- ment to be overcome. The force needed to push Holt's dilator is sometimes very great, and the attempt has been abandoned, or the instrument has broken, even in skilful hands, from this cause. Much of the force is expended on the continuous friction outside the tube along the split sound, and inside along the guide. In the wedge-dilator the friction-surface is reduced to two dovetail grooves, which together do not exceed half an inch. For this, the force required is so small that one hand suffices to overcome the resistance." The instrument can, if required, be adapted to a conducting sound, such as is described afterwards under Internal Urethrotomy. Another instrument of the same class has been devised by Bigelow (Fig. 922). It consists of a fihform conducting sound, which is first passed. The guiding rod is then screwed into this and passed into the bladder, pushing the conducting sound before it. The cup-shaped cap at the upper end of the guide rests on the gians, while the Surgeon's left hand grasps the body of the penis.