DISEASES OF JOINTS. 328 The presence of an abnormal quantity of fluid in the joint is always indicated by fluctuation and iinilutuiion, and by the peculiar sliape acquired by the part. Thus in the knee, which is the most common seat of the alfection, the patella will float, as it were, on the fluid. If the distension be not too great, by placing the finger on the knee-cap and pushing it sharply towards the femur it can be felt to sink through the fluid and strike on the bone beneath. This sign is of great importance, as it enables us to distinguish between simple synovitis with effusion, and distension of the joint by soft granulation tissue in the early stages of tuberculous disease. In order to elicit it the patient must be lying down with the muscles of the thigh perfectly relaxed. All the natural hollows about the knee are obliterated; the distended pouches of the synovial membrane project distinctly on each side above the patella, and the hollow on each side of the ligamentum patellas is obliterated by the infrapatellar fat which is pushed downwards by the pressure of the fluid in the joint. In the elbow there is a soft and fluctuating swelling extending above the olecranon on each side of the tendon of the triceps which forms a depression in the middle line; and in the shoulder there is a general roundness and distension of the articulation. Chronic Serous Synovitis is characterised by effusion of serous fluid into the cavity of the joint without any tendency to the formation of pus, and in fact without any of the ordinary signs of inflammation. The pressure of the fluid distending the capsule and causing swelling and weakness of the joint is the prominent symptom. There is little or no pain, tenderness or heat in the aff"ected joint. The term Hydrarthrosis or Dropsy of the Joint has been applied to cases in which the amount of fluid distending the joint is considerable, and the course of the disease extremely chronic. The fluid in these cases partakes in various degrees of the characters of serum and synovia. Hydrarthrosis may arise from at least three distinct pathological causes. First, the efl'usion may be preceded or accompanied by the ordinary evidence of synovial inflammation, the case apparently being merely one of simple synovitis with very excessive eff-Qsion. Secondly, great efl'usion into the jomt is not an uncommon occuiTence in Charcot's disease. In this form the effusion is painless or nearly so, and is soon followed by destructive changes in the cartilages and bones with looseness of the ligaments and unnatural mobility of the articulation. (See Charcot's Disease of Joints.) A third form has been described by Konig under the name of hydrops tuherculosus or tuUrculous dropsy of the joints. (See Tuberculous Disease of Joints.) In all forms of hydrarthrosis, if the distension is considerable, pouch-hke projections of the synovial membrane may push their way through the least supported parts of the capsule, and form cystic swelhngs m the neighbourhood of the joint. When a bursa communicates with the synovial membrane it becomes distended with the joint in hydrarthrosis as for example the bursa underthe inner head of the gastrocnemius and that beneath the deltoid. I is sa^ that, in some cases, the distension of the joint has been so great that ITynov^a membrane has been ruptured, and the fluid PO^fto the sur- rnnnXn J areolar tissue. In these cases, however, it is probable that some deXuctlve ch^^^^^^^^^^^ the synovial membrane preceded its rupture. In more " c^^^^^^^^^^ ligaments may become relaxed, and spontaneous dislocation may take place. (Vol. I. p. 655.)