TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF HIF: TREATMENT. 427 middle of the thigh, to ensure the adhesion of the plaster. A long splint is next applied to the sound limb ; without this, although by extension the pain luay be removed, adduction or abduction and some degree of flexion cannot be prevented, as the patient will turn on one side and avoid the direct pull of the weight. The long splint being fixed, the weight is applied to the rope attached to the spreader and passing over a pulley. The pulley should be ; fixed to some apparatus allowing of its being raised or lowered as circum- \ stances may require. If the proper apparatus, such as is used in hospitals, be not at hand, a pulley may be readily made from a cotton-reel with a piece of i wire passed through it, by which it can be slung to the back of a chair or a I clothes-horse. The weight of the body serves as the counter-extension, and if ) necessary the foot of the bed may be raised on blocks to prevent the patient :! slipping down. The most convenient form of weight is a tin can filled with 'I shot or water, till the degree of extension obtained is comfortable to the \ patient. The pulley and weight are to be adjusted in such a way that the t extension shall act on the limb directly in the line of its abnormal position. Fig. 56S.—Apparatus for Extension by Weights in Hip-joint Disease. To do this the diseased limb must be raised till the lumbar spine is in contact with the bed, and the degree of abduction or adduction must correspond to I that noted before the apparatus was applied. During the acute stage any forced attempt to drag the limb immediately into its normal position would only aggravate the pain, but by making the extension as above described, it will be found that the limb speedily falls into the proper position. At the end of each day the pulley must be readjusted so as gradually to bring the limb parallel to its fellow. In recent cases a few days will often suffice to I bring the limb into its normal position ; in more advanced cases some weeks may be required. If the treatment has to be continued for any length of time, the apparatus represented in Fig. 5G8 may be employed. In it the pelvis and body are fixed to the bed by means of broad felt straps and buckles. A leather ankle-strap is then placed round the foot and lower part of the leg, and a padded belt above the knee. From the sides of each of these, straps are carried to a point six or eight inches beyond the foot, where they are attached to a transverse iron rod, four inches long. From this the cord suspend- ing the weight passes over a pulley-frame fixed to the end of the bed. The weight applied should be from two to three pounds in children up to six years