DEFORMITIEH OF THE SPINE. 520 readiiio-, is a comnion cause of round shoulders, and in more extreme de<n-ces of kyphosis. " '' Mechanism and Pathology.—The proper tension of the ligaments and muscles of the spinal columns is necessary for it to maintain the weight of the upper part of the body. If from any of the above causes these structui-es are weak, and the spine is habitually held in a faulty position, a gradually in- creasing curvature will develop. The direction of the deviation is often an exaggeration of the normal curves : thus in kijphosis the excurvation takes place in the lower cervical and upper dorsal regions, which are naturally prominent; and, in lordosis, the incurvation is most marked in the lumbar region. In laiercd currature, the most marked deformity is in the dorsal region, where the convexity is usually directed to the right, and is indeed an exaggeration of the slight inclination of the spine in the same direction which is so frequently present. A second, or compensating, curve occurs in the lumbar region, and takes a direction opposite to that in the dorsal region (Fig. 621). In some instances there is a quadruple curve (Fig. 622). At the same time that these lateral curves take place, there is a tendency to rotation of the vertebrae in such a way that the body of each vertebra is directed towards the convexity of the curve, and the spinous process towards the con- cavity. Thus in most cases the body of a dorsal vertebra looks forwards and to the right, and the spinous process backwards and to the left (Fig. 625). This rotation is of much importance, as we shall see, in the production of the peculiar deformity of the chest which occurs in cases of lateral curvature. Many explanations have been suggested for the movement of rotation, but in lateral curvature produced in the way above described it seems probable that the rotation is due to the fact that the bodies of the vertebrae are more free to move than the posterior arches, which are bound firmly together by muscles and ligaments. Thus, when lateral curvature occurs, the bodies undergo dis- placement more readily than the arches, and rotation in the direction above indicated is the result. Arbuthnot Lane, who has paid much attention to this subject, has shown how lateral curvature may result from the constant assumption of positions of rest in standing. Supposing a feeble subject to stand habitually with the weight thrown on the right lower limb, the pelvis will be tilted so that the upper surface of the sacrum is directed somewhat to the left. A lumbar curve is thus produced having its convexity in the same direction, and a compen- sating curve with its convexity to the right forms in the dorsal region. In an erect column each vertebra is capable of rotation around an antero-posterior or a transverse axis, but in lateral curvature rotation takes place around an oblique axis directed forwards, outwards and downwards. This is readdy -Lateral Cur\-atiU'e and Fig. 625.- Kotation of Spine.