EXCISION OF JOINTS: CONDITIONS OF SUCCESS. 373 set in—a condition very apt to be followed by pyaemia. In the only fatal instances of resection of the elbow-joint that I have witnessed, death resulted from this cause ; the operation- having been performed whilst the articular affection was acute. ^ 3. The soft parts about the joint must he in a sufficiently healthy state. There are two morbid conditions connected with the soft parts that may interfere with the success of resection. First, they may be so thinned and permeated by sinuses, and so adherent to the bones, that an insufficient covering would be left. Or, secondly, the long-continued existence of tuberculous disease in joints and bones may give rise to great infiltration of the tissues around the articulation with chronic inflammatory products often in a state of fatty degeneration or containing tuberculous centres either caseating or softening. The tissues in this state are incapable of healthy repair. Chronic abscesses form, leaving sinuses when they discharge their contents, and the integuments become blue and doughy ; and the soft parts around the seat of operation fall into a state of disorganization that prevents alike the formation of a false joint, osseous ankylosis, or the healing of the wound, and thus leads inevitably to the ultimate amputation of the limb. Even though this exudation-matter do not exist in large quantity, if the joint be pecuharly loose, owing to softening and disorganization of ligamentous and tendinous structures, excision is not very likely to succeed, especially in the ankle or knee. 4. The state of the patknfS' constitution must necessarily influence the Surgeon materially in his determination whether to resect or to amputate. If the constitution be tolerably sound, or even if the general health have given way as the simple consequence of pain and continued discharge, resection will have a fair prospect of success. In fact, when there is hectic in con- sequence of continued suppuration, the removal of the joint or bone that maintains it may advantageously be practised. But if the patient is suffer- ing from septic fever in consequence of the absorption of the discharges from ill-drained cavities opening on the surface by narrow sinuses, the operation is likely to be followed by osteomyelitis and pyaemia, and is not a safe pro- ceeding until the constitutional disturbance has been relieved by making free incisions, and providing good drainage. These incisions should be so placed as not to interfere with subsequent excision. Again, if the constitution appear to be very much broken down, the patient being antemic, wasted or cachectic, especially if there be an evening elevation of temperature with no suppuration in the joint to account for it, excision of the larger joints, fis the knee and hip, is not desirable, as it is very probable that the patient is suBering from general tuberculosis. If the patient be very highly strumous, or decidedly phthisical, there will be little prospect of his being able to bear up through the long convalescence that often follows resection. The earlier stages of pulmonary phthisis, if unaccompanied by distinct elevation of temperature, need not be a bar to the operation. In such cases I have several times had occasion to observe that the general health improved rapidly after removal of the local disease. Extensive albumenoid degeneration of the liver and other viscera is always a serious obstacle to excision, although amputation may sometimes be safely practised. 5. The extremes of life are unfavouraUe to resections. In very early child- hood, these operations are seldom necessary ; the natural processes usually