PRIMARY TUBERCLE OF BONE. 347 When the cartilage is completely perforated the tuberculous tissue extends into the joint-cavity (see Fungating Caries, p. 267), and infection of the synovial membrane occurs, resulting in changes similar to those due to primary deposit in the membrane itself. The earliest stage of infection of the joint was well illustrated in a case recently treated in University College Hospital. The patella was the seat of an extensive caseous deposit, and on opening the knee-joint, the synovial membrane in its anterior part was found swollen and injected, whilst grey granulations could be recognized scattered over it. In some cases adhesions occur in the joint before the cartilage is actually perforated, so that only a limited part of the synovial membrane may become tuberculous. The exact position of the primary focus which serves as the starting-point of the disease varies in different cases. It may be deeply seated in the cancellous tissue of the articular extremity, immediately beneath the articular cartilage. In many cases, however, it is situated in the vascular growing bone between the epiphysis and the shaft; it may then infect the joint by perforating the cartilage, or it may extend to the surface of the bone at or within the line of the attachment of the capsule, and thus reach the joint by a different route. It occasionally happens, especially in the shoulder, that the disease of the bone assumes the form of dry caries (p. 257), and thus extensive destruction may occur without any evidences of suppuration, and the true nature of the case may consequently be obscure. The proportion of cases in which the synovial membrane is primarily affected has been differently estimated by different pathologists. Konig is of opinion that primary synovial disease does not form more than a quarter of all cases. The frequency with which it occurs varies in different joints : thus it is more common in the knee than in the hip or elbow. Clinically it is, as a rule, impossible to distinguish accurately one form of the disease from the other. On microscopic examination, the diseased structures present the following appearances : The ligaments show the ordinary changes observed in inflamed fibrous tissue. The fibres are separated from each other by inflammatory products, composed chiefly of small round cells. When the process is very chronic, new fibroid tissue may also be found. The cartilages show changes similar to those already described in acute arthritis. Before suppuration has taken place, ulceration both without and with evident proliferation may be present (see p. 335). The destructive changes may be observed on either surface, according as the disease commences in the synovial membrane or the bone. In the later stages, after perforation of the cartilage, both surfaces may be similarly affected. After suppuration has taken place, necrosis of cartilage with disintegration (p. 335) may also be met with. The bones present the appearances already described as being met with in tuber- culous caries (p. 282). The chief interest attaches, however, to the micro- scopical appearances of the pulpy granulation tissue which has replaced the synovial membrane and fills the cavity of the joint. The structure of this tissue has been made the subject of investigation by Kuster, Konig, Yolkmann, Hueter, and others in Germany, and by Croft, Greenfield, Cheyne and others in this country. The essential part of the pulpy granulation tissue is made up of the elements which are characteristic of tubercle elsewhere, and these may assume the nodular