DISEASES OF THE J I AND. 402 be removed by an incision on its palmar aspect. Disease of the phalangeal articulations usually leads to amputation of the affected finger. The rules for performing these various operations have already been laid down in Vol. I., pp. 93 et seq., to which I must refer the reader. Resection of the Metacarpal Bone, either of the thumb or index finger, without the removal oi' the corresponding digit, is occasionally required, more particularly in cases of in jury ; it may readily be done by making a longitudinal incision over the dorsal aspect of the bone to be removed, carefully detaching it from surrounding parts by keeping the edge of the knife close against the bone, avoiding the tendons, and then either disarticulating, or (what is pre- ferable) cutting across the neck of the carpal end of the bone, turning it out, and separating it from any distal attachments which it may retain. After the removal of the metacarpal bone of the index finger in this way. but little deformity results, and a very useful hand will be left, more particularly in children, on whom I have more than once practised this partial resection with success. If the periosteum be saved, the bone may be to some extent repro- duced, but in order to obtain this result it is necessary to keep the finger drawn forwards by an elastic extending apparatus, to prevent the first phalanx from being pulled back on to the carpus by the muscles attached to it. Tuberculous Dactylitis.—This affection, which is often spoken of as " strumous dactylitis " and constituted one condition termed Spina ventosa by the older writers, usually commences as a tuberculous osteomyelitis of a metacarpal bone or phalanx. It is very common in young children and several bones are often affected. It is characterized by a gradually increasing fusiform enlargement of the affected bone. The adjacent joints usually escape and in many cases spontaneous cure occurs with a shortened but useful finger. In the early stages the treatment should consist in attention to the general health and the administration of cod-liver oil; the affected finger should be fixed on a small splint. If a chronic abscess form this must be opened, and then by enlarging the track, which will usually be found leadmg mto the expanded bone, the tuberculous granulation tissue and any existing sequestrum can be thoroughly scraped out. A lasting dressing should then be_ applied and in the majority of cases a good result will follow. Amputation is rarely necessary unless a joint is involved.