RIIEVMA TO ID ARTHRITIS. 355 density bj the formation of new osseous tissue filling up the cancellous spaces. The new tissue may be true bone with lacunae, but in many cases it is excessively dense in structure, contains a great excess of lime salts, and appears to be formed rather by calcification than by ossification of the medullary tissue of the cancellous spaces. The bony surfaces thus exposed are worn away, and greatly altered in shape by constant friction ; at the same time they become highly polished, like ivory or porcelain—eburnated or porcelaneous as it is termed. In spite of the density of the structure thus formed, it is constantly being worn away as long as motion is left in the joint, the next layer of cancellous tissue then undergoing the same change. These destructive processes commence and advance most rapidly in the central parts of the articular surfaces, and while they are in progress outgrowth occurs at the circumference of the cartilage forming in the earlier stages a rounded lip or flange-like projection around the margins of the articular surfaces. Later on irregular cartilaginous outgrowths are formed which ossify, and thus form rounded irregular osteophytes, often reaching a very considerable size, and impeding or completely abolishing the movements of the joint. The osteo- phytes of rheumatoid arthritis differ essentially from those formed round a carious joint. In form and appearance they have very aptly been compared to the gutterings of a wax-candle, while the osteophytes round a carious joint have the jagged form of stalactites. The fact that the former are developed from cartilage and the latter from granulation tissue forms another distinc- tion between them. New bone may also be formed beneath the periosteum of the adjacent bone ; thus when the shoulder is affected the acromion may be irregularly enlarged by bony outgrowths. Occasionally isolated nodules of ossifying cartilage of a flattened form are found in the subserous tissue beneath the synovial membrane. In the early stages the ligaments and synovial mem- brane show but little change ; but as the disease advances, the capsule of the joint becomes greatly thickened. The synovial membrane becomes opaque, and its fringes increased in size. In some cases this enlargement of the fringes is very considerable, the separate papillge reaching a great size, sometimes even half an inch in length. When this condition is very marked the term Villous Synovial Membrane is apphed to it. In the free extremities of the enlarged papillje rounded or flattened nodules of cartilage may be formed. These sometimes become broken from their attachments, and form loose bodies in the joint. In the earlier stages of rheumatoid arthritis there may be a slight excess of synovia which is turbid, but effusion never forms a marked feature of the disease, and hence the term drij arthritis is often applied to it. A section of the bones entering into the affected joint shows that the cancellous tissue beneath the eburnated surface is more spongy than natural, the spaces being filled with yellow fat. In consequence of this atrophy of the bone, the shape often becomes considerably altered. This is most charac- teristically seen in the neck of the femur, which becomes shortened and set more at right angles with the shaft than natural. Suppuration rarely occurs in rheumatoid arthritis. I have seen it only when the disease was developed at an earlier period of life than usual, at from thirty to forty, or when an injury occurred to the affected joint. Symptoms.—The affected joint becomes partially ankylosed ; it is swollen tender, deformed, and useless. It is the seat of constant pain with occasional A A 2