78q JJISEASES OF THE BREAST. almost mucous iu character, and of a brownish-yellow or brown colour. It may indeed be assumed that abnormal secretion is an important factor in the production of the disease, associated no doubt in many instances with au obstruction to the ducts such as is caused by an overgrowth of connectivG tissue around them. The walls of these cysts are composed of a layer of condensed connective tissue of variable thickness, containing usually an abundant supply of capillary vessels. They are lined internally by a layer of epithelium, either cubical or spheroidal like that of the acini, or columnar like that of the ducts. In many instances the cysts merely contain fluid, but not nnfrequently the cavity is occupied by an intracystic growth sprouting into it from the wall. In such cases the cyst is called & proliferous cyst. Single Cysts of this class are of three varieties : 1, Galactocele. 2. True Glandular Cyst. 3. Duct Cyst, 1. Galactocele or Milk-Cyst has already been described at page 7G9. 2. The True Glandular Cyst is not uncommon, and may attain a considerable size. These cysts form rounded or slightly lobulated tumours, usually imperfectly defined and painless, or nearly so. They may be deeply seated in the substance of the breast, but often project on its surface or at one of its borders. The position of these cysts in the breast, and the fact that they are usually lined with a more or less perfect layer of cubical or spheroidal epithelium, make it almost certain that they arise in the glandular acini or small ducts. In some cases they contain intracystic growths covered with a similar epithelium, and containing spaces lined with the same. Sometimes their fluid contents can be partly squeezed out from the nipple, and the cyst is soft and Hnctuating. Should the duct become completely or partially blocked, either from inflammatory induration of the surrounding tissue, or, as in a case recorded by Eogeau, by a small papillary growth springing up in its interior, the cyst increases more rapidly in size, and becomes so tense as to be easily mistaken for a sohd tumour. The causes of these cysts are uncertam. ihey seem usually to arise from some injury or irritation of the breast. Butlm who has published some interesting observations on these cysts, states that they most commonly occur after thirty-five, in women who have borne children, and in several cases appear to have arisen as the result ot a blow. In some cases they may possibly be associated with some uterine aflection. 3 Duct Cyst.—This variety of cyst undoubtedly arises m distension ot one of the large ducts of the breast. It is situated towards the central pjn of the gland, often projecting prominently beneath the areola. In many instances the first symptom observed by the patient is the occasiona esc^P of a yellowish fluid from the nipple, and pressure on the cyst may gieatiy "The chSimportance of the duct cyst is that it is often the seat of adelica^ branching intracystic growth, the vascular papillae of which are coveied ^ b columnar epithelium sfmilar to that lining the cyst. Such a growth s known a Duct Papilloma. The vascularity of the growth is often so ^.at hemorrhage h'om the nipple may be a marked symptom In he ^as thich the^reast represented in Fig 778 was -^^^^^^^^^ ^ clear discharge from the nipple, which rap.dly became bloody ^^^^^ cyst was pressed upon. It is extremely probable that tl^^ papilloma may in some instances be the starting-point of a columnai cinoma (see p, 79'.)).