EXAMINATION OF THE NASAL CAVITIES. 587 patient operated on in University College Hospital. This maybe done readily enough by making an incision doAvn the mesial line to the alar cartilages, and then dissecting the hypertrophied tissue off these on each side ; especial care, however, being taken in doing this not to encroach upon the nostril. This is best avoided by directing an assistant to keep his finger in it while the dis- section is being carried out, so that he may warn the Surgeon of the too near approach of the knife. The surface is then left to granulate and cicatrize. Lnpns, Squamous Carcinoma, Rodent Ulcer, and Tertiary Syphilitic Ulceration are all common in the nose: Lupus especially may be looked upon as almost specially affecting this organ, destroying one or both alse, the columna, or perhaps the whole of the nose. • The consideration of the nature and treatment of tliese affections in this situation presents nothing special (see Chapter XXXYII., Y0I. I.) ; but the cure of the deformities induced by them, which is full of interest to the Surgeon, will be. considered in detail when we speak of the plastic operations that are practised on the face. Ulcers and Fissures, of a less serious character, though very painful and Fig. 0G7.—Nasal Speo.ulum. Pig. liOS. —Fniiikel's Nasal Speculum. chronic, often occur at the angle of the ala and septum, or between the ala and the tip. Their Treatment consists in touching them from time to time with nitrate of silver, or in the application every night of white precipitate or citrine ointment; at the same time that the general health is attended to, and the strength restored, by the administration of tonics. Affections of the Nasal Cavity.—Examination of the .Nasal Cavity.—The nasal cavity may be examined from the front by means of the nasal speculum. This is introduced so as to dilate the nostril, and a strono- light is then thrown in by means of the laryngoscopic mirror. The speculum shown in Fig. 668 will be found most convenient, as it does not require to be held, and thus leaves the Surgeon's hands free. The posterior nares can be examined by the laryngoscope, the mirror being held in the reversed position. The patient is placed in the same position as for examinino- the