7i6 DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. he existence of any serious disease. The diagnosis will be effected by caiefu attention to the symptoms described at p. 161 etseq. In such a cLe mud danger might be incurred by passing a bougie into the CBsophagus und" t ZoZV' '"^'"^^ '''' insti^m'ent mig pei^foiate the sac of the aneurism, and so give rise to instant death ^ o. Aneurism of the Aorta, whether of the fusiform or the sacculated jariety, may give rise to difficulty of deglutition by pressure on the gullet in this case, also, there is great danger of the aneurismal sac being pierced by an instrument passed down for the purpose of ascertaining the existence Jf stricture The presence of the symptoms of intrathoracic aneurism, described at p. 153 seq., will determine the diagnosis. 6 Intrathoracic Tumours, such as enlarged bronchial glands, or sarco- matous and other growths, projecting from the thoracic spine into the posterior mediastinum, may compress the oesophagus. In such cases the diagnosis is very difficult. It is difficult enough to determine the existence of a tumour but still more so to distinguish it from a consolidated aneurism ; but dulness on percussion, and dyspnoea with dysphagia, together with fixed pain in or to one side of the spine, with neuralgia down the arms or up the side of the head, and a dilated condition of the superficial veins of the chest, are the signs on which we chiefly rely in diagnosing the existence of a tumour. 7. Dislocation of the Sternal End of the Clavicle Backwards, whether traumatic, or produced in consequence of excessive lateral curvature of the spine, may give rise to difficulty of deglutition. Of the latter kind there is one case recorded by Astley Cooper, in which the sternal end of the clavicle so obstructed the passage of food, that the patient was brought into a condition of extreme danger. Davie, of Bungay, under whose care the woman was, sawed off the sternal end of the clavicle, and thus completely relieved her. 8. Impaction of a Foreign Body in the Gullet.—Although a foreign body, such as a piece of bone, or the setting of artificial teeth, generally lies across the gullet in such a manner as to be easily felt with a probang, there are cases in which it becomes so lodged in the canal as to escape detection. I once saw a man who was said to have swallowed a piece of gutta-percha, with which he had endeavoured to construct an artificial masticatory apparatus for himself. A Surgeon who examined him a few days afterwards failed to detect any foreign body. Inability to swallow solids came on, and when I saw him six months afterwards, the question was, whether the foreign body was still impacted in the oesophagus, or whether the symptoms arose