PROXIMAL LIGATURE, 121 of the sac, he cleans the vessel by dissecting away the part of the sac which overlaps it, and ties it on each side, immediately above and below the aperture. This operation, as performed by the older Surgeons on any of the larger arteries, as the popliteal, was not only so dii^icult in itself that they were seldom willing to undertake it, but was so fatal in its results, being commonly followed by secondary h£emorrhage, or by diffuse inflammation, suppuration, and gangrene that recovery after its performance was considered a marvel, and amputation was generally preferred. At the present time, however, the diffi- culties are much diminished by the bloodless method of operating, and the -subsequent dangers by the improved methods of treating wounds. The operation may, therefore, be undertaken with less hesitation as a last chance of saving a limb in which an aneurism has become diffused. Its ai)plicability will be further discussed with the special aneurisms in the treatment of which it has been employed. Recently the old operation has been modified by completely excising the sac and ligaturing the artery above and below it. Kuebler has collected 40 cases in which complete extirpation was practised. This Hst, however, includes 29 traumatic aneurisms. Only one case ended fatally; gangrene of the foot occurred in a case of femoral aneurism, but secondary haemorrhage was not recorded in any instance. The treat- ment is obviously impracticable in many situations, and although it has been successfully adopted in cases of femoral, popliteal, axillary and brachial aneurism, it is hardly likel on account of the difficulty of the operation, to be exten- sively practised. In certain cases it is an available method of treatment after others have failed ; of Kuebler's cases 11 had been unsuccessfully treated by compression, and five by proximal ligature. In those rare instances in which aneurisms are met with on the smaller arteries, such as those of the forearm, complete excision would probably prove the most efficient treatment. 2. The Ligature of the Artery on the Cardiac Side of the Aneurism without opening the sac, was first done by Anel, in the year 1710, in a case of brachial aneurism. This operation, though attended with the risk of wound or inflammation of the sac, which was in close proximity to the seat of ligature, constituted a considerable advance in the treatment of the disease, inasmuch as it did not necessarily lead to the opening up of the aneurismal tumour, and to the dangers inseparable from that mode of procedure As Anel, however, performed his operation as a mere matter of convenience m a particular case, and without the recognition of any new principle of treatment oeing involved in it, it attracted but little attention at the time and. does not appear to have been repeated by any of the Surgeons of his day ' It was reserved for John Hunter to make the great improvement of ligaturinq the artery at a disiame from iho sac. In this way the objections to Anel's operation were avoided : for though, hke Anel, Hunter tied the artery on the Fig. 454.—Anel's Fig. 455.—Hun- Fig. 456.—Dis- Operatioii. ter's Operation. tal Operation.