TUBERCULOUS ULCERATION OF THE TONGUE. 683 .ucnie was first noticed by Portal, and has since been accurately described by 1 '.u^aud and Nedopil and others. It is not common, but occurs with suthcient 'equency to justify a description here. It commences as a minute white spot, \ er which the mucous membrane gives way and a small quantity of puriform natter escapes, leaving an ulcer which gradually extends. Similar spots ippear round about, and the sores thus formed may coalesce, forming a larger rreo-ular ulcer, with a yellowish, uneven surface, and slightly indurated base. I'he"ulceration usually commences at the tip of the tongue and thence spreads ilong the borders and on to the under surface, but to a less extent on to the lorsum. Deep fissures are sometimes present. The ulcers are extremely lainful. They may occur in individuals who exhibit no signs of tubercle ■Isewhere, but far more commonly are associated with advanced pulmonary • laryng'eal phthisis. In such cases it is probable that the disease of the iigue results from the direct infection of an abrasion on its surface by the ...berculous sputum. Microscopic examination of the ulcer shows that it has ilie usual structure of tuberculous ulcers elsewhere (Fig. 741). The presence ii' til Fig. 741.—Tubercivlovis Ulcer of Tongue. Tubercles among muscle fibres ill base of Ulcer. (96 diams.) • if the tubercle bacillus has been demonstrated in several cases by Watson <'heyne, Hale White, Percy Kidd, and others ; but the bacilli are often few in number and difficult to detect. The prognosis of these cases is necessarily Lirave. The Treatment of tuberculous ulceration of the tongue depends upon the extent of the ulceration and the general condition of the patient. There can Ije no doubt that if there are no signs of tuberculous disease elsewhere, or ven if such disease be present but not advanced, the ulcerated part of the DQgue should, as recommended by Butlin, be freely excised. If the ulcer iippear to be primary the reason for this treatment is obvious, and even if -'^condary, much local relief may be afforded. In a case under the care of 1 iarker the anterior half of the tongue was excised successfully for extensive tuberculous disease, there beiug only evidence of slight consolidation at fhe apox of the right lung, and similar treatment was adopted in the case fVom which Fig. 741 was prepared. In cases too extensive for removal or associated with advanced tuberculous disease elsewhere, relief may sometimes 1)6 given by scraping the ulcer with a sharp spoon and applying iodoform. Any teeth which irritate the sore should be extracted. If the soreness be so