DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. chloride of zinc (gr. i to -].), or sulpho-carbolate of zinc (gr. ii to ^i ^ mav used. Cheyue states that by these means the inflammation is often cut sho t and a cure effected in a week or ten days or sooner. If it fails it does no harm. One-twentieth of a grain of perchloride of mercury added to each bougie IS said to increase the certainty of their action. In this stage also the use of strong injections of nitrate of silver has in some instances been followed by a rapid cure. Cotes, who gave this method of treatment a thorough trial at the- Lock Hospital, proceeded as follows : An endoscope was introduced a« tar as the inflammation of the mucous membrane extended, this bein^ often as much as four inches by the third day. The mucous membrane was then dried with wool mops. A wool mop soaked in a 10 grains to the ounce solution of silver nitrate was then passed down the tube with a stylet until it projected beyond the end. By withdrawing the endoscope and the stylet together the nitrate of silver was brought into contact with the whole of the inflamed mucous membrane. A hot bath was given at night, and the patient kept in bed during the following day. A saline aperient and an alkaline mixture were prescribed, and a simple injection, such as weak Condy's fluid, directed to be used several times daily. Cotes treated 42 cases in this way. In 40 in which the disease was of many days' duration, the average duration of the cure wag twelve days ; whilst 2 cases of only two days' duration were cured in two days. During the second, or in fact in all stages of gonorrhoea, much harm is often done by applying lint to the penis. This does not absorb the discharge, but rather shuts it in. It is better to put the penis in a macintosh gonorrhoea-bag, at the bottom of which a good-sized piece of salicylic wool may be placed to absorb the discharge. When the third stage of the disease has been reached, specific treatment may be employed with great advantage ; while, if recourse were had to it at an earlier period, it would certainly increase the inflammation and give the patient much distress. Even in this stage the specific remedies, such as copaiba and cubebs, must be cautiously given ; the Surgeon feeling his way with them, and being prepared to discontinue them if he find that they increase the irritation. Should the disease, however, from the commencement, have assumed a subacute character, the specific treatment may with safety be adopted at a much earlier period. Copaiba and cubebs are extensively used in this stage of gonorrhoea. Of these, copaiba is the less irritating, and consequently more generally to be preferred. It may be administered in a variety of ways : in capsule, pill, draught, or extract. The capsule is generally to be preferred, on account of the nauseous taste being thus more completely disguised ; but in many cases it acts with more certainty, and with better eifect, if given in either of the other forms. When the capsules are given, the patient may take from six to eight or ten in the day, and should at the same time have an alkahne mixture, which increases materially the eflFect of the drug. A y&yj excellent mode of administering copaiba is to rub it down into a mass with burnt magnesia, and to let the patient take about a drachm of this paste three times a day, in a bolus wrapped in wafer-paper ; or, if the taste be not much objected to, he may take it most advantageously in mucilage, with liquor potassge and tincture of hyoscyamus. In some relaxed constitutions, and'more particularly after fi'equent claps,