SPECIAL ANEURISMS. direct presmre to the sac itself; this can be done by means of a weight, or by a leaden or leathern cap moulded to the swelling. Compression on the cardiac side can be employed only when the artery rises high enough in the neck to admit of pressure being applied between the scalenus and the sac. Such a combination of irregular anatomical distribution with aneurism must of necessity be excessively rare ; but in one case in which it occurred, Poland succeeded in effecting a cure by digital compression kept up for ninety-six hours. The tumour was then smaller and harder, but still pulsated. The patient left the Hospital, and, at the end of a month, the tumour was found to have become solid, and had ceased to pulsate. The number of cases in which compression is possible may perhaps be increased by performing the operation under prolonged anassthesia. Compression on the distal side could be effected only when the artery crosses the first rib, and consequently would be available only in those rare cases in which the aneurism springs from the first part of the vessel. Manipidation, as recommended by Fergusson, deserves a further trial ; of the few instances in which it has been employed it was successful in Little's case and partially so in Fergusson's case. Galvano-puncture and Acupuncture are also available methods of treatment, and might be combined, when practicable, with distal compression. Galvano- puncture has been successfully employed by Abeille and acupuncture by Mace wen. Ligature of the innominate, and of the subclavian itself internal to, behind, and beyond the scalenus anticus, has been practised for the cure of this form of aneurism ; it has likewise been proposed to apply the distal operation to the treatment of this disease, and to amputate at the shoulder-joint. When an aneurism is situated on the right subclavian artery on the tracheal side of the scalenus, the flow of blood through it can be arrested only by the ligature of the innominate artery. When it is situated beyond the scalenus, or even behind it, ligature of the subclavian has been practised in the first part of its course before it reaches this muscle. For subclavian aneurism on the left side, in these situations, the proximal hgature would not be practicable. Let us now proceed to examine the results that have attended these operative procedures. Ligature of the Innominate.—The innominate artery, as may be seen by the accompanying table, has been ligatured at least twenty-two times. CASES OF LIGATURE OF INNOMINATE ARTERY. REMARKS. Tied an inch below bifurcation. Ligature separated in fourteen days. Hajmorrhage on 23rd day, stopped by pressure : recurred on 26th. Ligature separated in fourteen days. Hfemorrhage after sepa- ration of ligature airested by cold and pressure, and did not recur. Suppuration of sac : in- cision. Hicmoptysis and fever. Death without further ha:mor- rhage. Artery safely occluded. OPERATOR. AGE. NATURE OF DISEASE. 1. MOTT. Ul. 2. Gkafe. m. 57 Subclavian aneurism. abt. Subclavian 30 aneurism. Died on 26th day. Died on 68th day.