670 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE LIPS cedematous aud inverted at the edge, or the flow of saliva interfered with proper uniou, and it is not now practised. In those cases in which tlie gi-eater portion of tliu lower lip has been excised for cancerous disease aftectincr itg upper margin, a better procedure for the restoration of the deformity consists in a modification of the plan recommended by Serres ; and from this I have derived^ excellent results, as in the case which is here represented (Fig. 72G) The object of the operation is to raise the lower lip to a level with the^incisor teeth. An incision, about three-quarters of an inch in length, is made directly outwards from the angle of the mouth, on each side, into tlie cheek ; from the extremity of this a cut is carried obliquely downwards on to the upper margin Fig. 726.—Lines of Incision in Chelloplasty. Fig. 72".—Incisions and Sutures in Cheiloijlasty. of the lower lip, so as to excise the included triangular piece ; the lower lip is then dissected away from the jaw, from the inside of the mouth, and a V-shaped piece is taken out of its centre. By means of a hare-lip pin on each side, and a. point of suture, the incisions in the angle of the mouth are brought accu- rately together ; and in the same way the vertical one, in the centre, is united (Fig. 727). In this way the whole of the lower lip is raised, and "brought more forwards. If care have been taken in removing the cancer from the edge of the lip, to leave the mucous membrane rather long (which may always be done, when the skin is affected to a greater extent than it), a Fig. 728. Fig. "29. Fig. " Buchanan s Operation for the Restoration of the Lower Lip. good prolabium may be formed, and the restoration effected with but little deformity. Buchanan, of Glasgow, as far back as 1841, published an account of a method for restoring the lower lip, which gives very satisfactory results. The accompanying figures illustrate the kind of case in which Buchanan's operation is applicable, the lines of incision required, and the appearance presented by the chin and lip after the disease has been removed and the flaps l^rought into proper apposition. The steps of the operation are simple. The diseased part of the lower lip is first removed by an elliptical incision (Fig. 728, a b a). An incision, b c. is then carried downwards and outwards on each side of the chin ; and another