95 CALCIFICATION OF ARTERIES. in pei-sons apparently healthy in other respects, and gives rise to spontaneous ^ano-rene, usually of the foot. In one case in which the vessels were exa- mined after amputation of the limb, the obliteration was found to be the result of a great proliferation of the endothelium, with narrowing of the lumen of the vessel, the final obliteration being brought about by thrombosis. New vessels were found penetrating from the outer coat into the proliferating endothelium, which with the thrombus was found in the older parts to be undergoing changes similar to those already described as occurring in closure of an artery after ligature. Billroth states that the disease is preceded by feebleness of circulation, and obscure pain, often lasting for months or years. There is no definite treatment for these cases. PRIMAEY DEGENERATIONS OF ARTERIES. Fatty Degeneration.—Fatty degeneration, except as a part of chronic endarteritis, is not a particularly frequent or important change in arteries. In the aorta, even in young subjects, yellow patches of small size and irregular form, and very slightly if at all elevated above the normal surface of the intima, are common. If one of these be peeled off and examined microscopically it will be found to present stellate patches of fat granules in the most superficial layers of the intima, immediately beneath the endothelium. These are the result of fatty degeneration of the branched cells that are normally present in this part. The aflFection seems of no importance, and its cause is not known. In later life, fatty degeneratiou affecting the intima more deeply is some- times met with unaccompanied by any of the signs of atheroma. The degene- ration may extend to the endothelium, which then disintegrates and is cast off, leaving a rough surface exposed. This condition has been described as/«% &)-osion. It is most common in the arch of the aorta. Through such a surface the blood may force its way into the middle coat, and thus give rise to the condition to be subsequently described as "-dissecting aneurism^ ^ Fatty degeneration of the muscle-cells of the middle coat is described by Ziegler as an occasional antecedent of the annular form of calcification. Fatty granules are not uncommonly found in old age in the external coats of the smaller arteries, but they are of no pathological importance. Albunienoid or Amyloid Degeneration.—This has already been con- sidered in Vol. I., p. 251. The degeneration appears usually, if not always, to begin in the blood-vessels of the affected part, especially in the muscle-cells of the middle coat of the small arteries. In the larger arteries the inner coat may be affected. Some interference with the blood-supply of the part is caused in this way, and this may serve to explain the frequency with which fatty changes are found in association with albumenoid disease. Calcification or Calcareous Degeneration.—We have already seen that the calcareous plates so common in the aorta and its primary branches are the result of the calcification of the products of chronic endarteritis. In the smaller arteries, principally in those of the third and fourth magnitudes as the popliteal, the tibials, the brachial, radial and ulnar, primary calcification IS commonly met with. It commences by the deposit of lime salts, in a granular form, arranged in lines running transversely to the axis of the vessel- these lines gradually increase in breadth until they coalesce laterally the'