0ITERATION FOR UMBILICAL HERNIA. 885 adherent omentum. The coverings of an umbilical rupture are usually ex- rremely thin, consisting merely of the peritoneum, a layer of condensed fascia which'is often perforated at several points by circular openmgs through which rhe hernia protrudes, and the integuments which are expanded over the part, and in which the umbilical cicatrix is usually clearly perceptible. Ihe sac ..•enerally contains both intestine and omentum, but the stomach and other viscera have been included in it; and Murray has recorded a case m which the gravid uterus, at the eighth month of pregnancy, formed the contents of an umbilical hernia. In rare instances sloughing of the coverings of the hernia may occur, as the result of a spreading gangrenous inflammation usually beginning in the fold below the tumour, and due to accumulated secretion and dirt. I have known fatal peritonitis caused in this way, and have also seen recovery, with diminu- tion in the size of the hernia, after the separation of extensive sloughs and exposure of the sac. Large umbilical hernise with very thin coverings have been known to burst, with extensive escape of the bowels. Treatment.—The treatment consists, if the hernia be reducible, in. wearing a properly-constructed truss; if irreducible, in applying a hollow cup-shaped pad supported by a bandage over the part. It not unfrequently happens that, in consequence of an indigestible meal, an irreducible umbilical rupture in okl persons becomes obstructed, the symptoms consisting of tension of the protrusion, with nausea and constipation. In these cases, much discrimination will be required to avoid confounding this condition of the hernia with acute strangulation (p. 835). By fomentations, and enemata, rehef may usually be afforded. Should, however, the bowels not speedily act, and stercoraceous vomiting come on, the tumour continuing irreducible, it will be better to cut down upon it, and treat it as a strangulated hernia, dividing adhesions, and reducing the swelling ; for, if it be left obstructed and unreduced, the whole tumour may run into a state of gangrenous inflammation, and then operative interference will be of httle use. In such circumstances death usually results ; but I have known the patient to survive the gangrene, the whole of a coil of intestine, the sac, and much mesentery and omentum sloughing away, and an incurable artificial anus resulting. When an umbilical hernia becomes strangulated, as often happens in old irreducible tumours of this description, the symptoms are not usually very acute at first; but no time should be lost in effecting reduction, if possible, by taxis, as they speedily assume an active and urgent character. If taxis fail, a large umbilical hernia may sometimes be reduced by the application of the elastic bandage. This must be carefully applied round and over the tumour. The gentle and uniform pressure exerted by it may displace some flatus, and thus the contents of the hernia may gradually be emptied and the protrusion reduced. If this fail and the symptoms are not acute, small doses of opium may be given, and an ice-bladder applied, and kept on for a few hours. Taxis may then again be employed, when reduction of some portion of the swelling will usually follow. Should this not succeed, the operation must be proceeded with without further delay, lest gangrene set in. If the symptoms are from the first acute, the same rules apply to umbilical as to other herniae, not to waste time with inefficient means, but to try taxis under an anaesthetic, and if that fail, to operate immediately. Operation.—The nature of the operation undertaken for the relief of