STRUCTURAL CUANilEH IN HONE. 320 70 per cent, of the central tumours of the louj;- bones are of this nature. Myeloid tumours are often somewhat globular in form, and cysts are very common in them. They usually occur between 25 and 35, and y^vow slowly without affecting the constitution. When the central tumour affects the shaft of a bone it is probably one of the more malignant sarcomata, either round-celled, spindle-celled or mixed, myeloid being very rare in this situation. The peripheral sarcomata cannot be clearly distinguished from each other. Myeloid so rarely commences superficially, that it may practically be excluded. If* the lymphatic glands are affected, it is most probably a round-celled Fig. 537.—Bapidly growing malignant Tu- mour of the Head of the Humerus, with Spontaneous Fracture of the Shaft. Fig. 538.—Section of rapidly growing malignant Tumour of Head of Humerus : upper end and Head of Humerus destroyed, but Articular Cartilage un- affected. Tumour divided by white vertical lines— the Periosteum: inside which only were the Os- seous Spicula found. sarcoma, the spindle-celled form very rarely spreading in this way. All forms of peripheral sarcoma may equally implicate the surrounding soft parts. In distinguishing between the benign and the malignant tumours, Paget directs attention to the following points : 1. The age of the patient. If below puberty or past middle life the tumour is probably malignant, unless it be a common exostosis. 2. The age of the tumour. If of more than two years' duration, it is probably not malignant. 3. If a tumour of bone have doubled in size in six months, not being inflamed, it is probably malignant. . . „ tj? Treatment.—The only possible treatment is by operative interference. It the tumour be simple, it may be possible to remove it by gouging or cutting it out but if it be one of the malignant sarcomata, the only safe course is to remove the whole bone from which it springs. If from the localized nature of the growth, its origin at an articular end of a bone, and its central position,