REFLEX IRRITATION OF THE KIDNEY. 999 1 Tension.-It has been shown before how this is induced by any obstruc- tion tftL" entrance of urine into the bladder Every practical Su^^^^^^^ Tcouninted with the fact that tension is one of the most powerful irritants li::;;:'Ite ir;Lg tissues can be exposed In the others have shown that ligature of the bile-duct causes [^^terstitml hepaU In the kidney, no recorded case is to be found of suppuration occu ung as the es. U 0 Ip e tension ; but in all cases in which evidence of tension exists- ha s to say! dilated ureter or pelvis of the kidney, or some source o sudden b mctL,'as a more or less impacted calculus-subacute mterstLtial inflam- madon will be found. It seems ahnost as if the new cell-growth were a conservative change intended to strengthen the tubules to resist the increased pressure. However this may be, a kidney in this condition is m a s ate in which a little further irritation from any cause may hurry it on to fatal and acute inflammation. , . . • , j.u v •? Reflex Irritation of the Kidney.—Mechanical injuries to the neck of the bladder or posterior part of the urethra, and probably diseases of these parts in which constantly recurring irritation is present, re-act upon the kidney throuo-h the influence of the nervous system. It is needless here r,o attempt any explanation of the exact manner in which this takes place, as it would be merely a matter of speculation ; but a few facts may be given as proof of the assertion. It is well known that cases are on record, in which death has occurred from suppression of urine following the simple introduc- tion of a catheter, the post-fnortem examination showing a condition of intense congestion of the kidney. Again, patients with stone in the bladder occa- sionally die from acute inflammation of the kidney, often accompanied by suppuration, after the operation of lithotrity. Cases of this kind have occurred in which the cystitis was not increased by the operation, in which the decomposition of urine remained unchanged, and no altered circumstance existed, except the mechanical injury of the passage of the instrument, to account for the sudden supervention of acute nephritis. In these cases signs of chronic disease, which has been rendered acute by the additional irritation, are always present. Lastly, a few cases have been observed at University College Hospital after operations for stricture, with the view of ascertaining if any change could be found in the urine as the direct result of the operation. In three cases of Holt's dilatation, the urine was found to be free from blood, or to contain no more than could be accounted for by the operation, during the first hour or hour and a half after the operation, and then to become gradually more and more bloody for another hour or hour and a half, and after that to become gradually free from blood. In one case there was almost total suppression for the first hour and a half, followed by very bloody urine. In one case of internal urethrotomy, during the first hour the urine flowed away in great quanlities, and was almost free from blood. Por the next six hours it was passed in moderate quantity, and was very darkly tinged with blood. In all four cases, there was reason to believe that the blood came from the kidney. It occLirred after the haemorrhage from the wound would have ceased ; it was uniformly mixed with the urine, and free from clots. These cases are of course insufficient in number for any conclusions to be drawn from them ; but, as far as they go, they tend to show that, in all cases of operation on the urethra, there is a miniature representation of that intense congestion of the kidney which is found in cases of death from suppression of urine after simple