595 TREATMENT OF NASAL POLYPI. enable the Surgeon at once to recognize the nature of his patient's disease. Polypi occur chiefly in young adults after the age of puberty : but they are not unfrequcntly met with at later periods of life. Their Causes are very obscure. Most commonly they are referred either to a blow or to a prolonged catarrh. They are more common in women than in men. Diagnosis.—1. Mucous nasal polypi may be distinguished from chronic thickening of the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones, by the absence in the latter of any pedunculated growth around which a probe can be passed, by the florid red character of the thickened membrane, and by the fact that the subjects of this thickening are almost invariably strumous children. 2, In abscess of the sejjtimi, the history of the case, and the fact of a polypas never being attached to this part of the nose, will establish the diagnosis. 3. Devia- tion of the septum to one side may be at first a little puzzling ; but here the examination of both nostrils, and the discovery of a depression of one side of the septum corresponding to the projection on the other, will reveal the true nature of the case. 4. The fibrous and malignant tumours of the nostril will be found to diflFer sufficiently in consistence and appearance from the ordinary polypi to prevent their being confounded with them in many cases ; yet in . some instances much care will be required in coming to a definite opinion as to their true nature. 5. In one recorded case a meningocele projecting into the nasal cavity was mistaken for a polypus. Treatment.—The spontaneous separation and expulsion of nasal polypi is of rare occurrence, I have, however, seen one case in which, after the assiduous use of chloride of zinc injections, a very copious discharge of large sloughy polypoid masses took place from one nostril which had been blocked up by them for many months previously, and from which they had even descended into the pharynx. Nasal polypi may generally be most readily removed by avulsion with forceps ; occasionally, but rarely, when they are very large, with a broad base, and especially when they extend into the throat, they require the application of the ecraseur. In removing these growths by the forceps, instruments of good length but very slender construction should be used—those generally sold are too thick ; the interior of the blades should be properly serrated, and have a longitudinal groove, so that the root of the tumour may be tightly grasped. The mucous membrane should first be rendered insensible by the application of a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine by means of a camel's hair pencil. The patient should be made to sit on a rather low chair ; and, as there is generally a good deal of bleeding, a towel should be pinned over his clothes, and a basin placed before him to receive the blood. The Surgeon then, having ascertained by the introduction of a probe, or by means of the blades of the forceps, the situation of the pedicle of the polypus, grasps this firmly and removes it with a twisting movement of the hand. He proceeds in this manner, twisting off rather than pulling away polyp after polyp, until the whole of the nostril is cleared, which may be ascertained by examination, and by directing the patient to compress the sound, and to blow through the affected, side of the nose. The bleeding, which is often very free, stops on the application of cold water. It seems to be lessened by the use of cocaine. When the bleeding has ceased, the nose may be dried with cotton-wool, and the stump of the polypus, if it can be seen, may be touched with nitrate Q Q 2