CONTENTS. vii PAGE Chapter XLIV.—Aneurisms of the Thorax, Head and Neck, and Upper Extremity. Thoracic Aorta—Symptoms—Auscultatory Signs—Pressure-effects—Pulsation and Tumour—Treatment • • .153—161 Innominate Artery—Symptoms—Pressure-effects—Prognosis—Diagnosis—Treat- ment—Ligature of Subclavian only—Of Carotid only—Of Carotid and Sub- clavian—General Remarks on the Operation • Kil—168 Carotid Artery—Aneurismal Varix of Carotid Artery aiid Jugular Vein—Spon- taneous Aneurism of Carotid—Symptoms—Diagnosis—Treatment—Digital Com- pression—Ligature of Common Carotid—Effects on Brain—Table of Cases of Ligature of Carotid—Ligature of Carotid on Distal Side .... 168—178 External Carotid Artery—Ligature 178—179 Internal Carotid Artery—Extracranial Aneurism—Treatment, . . 179—180 Intracranial Aneurism — Causes — Pathology — Pressure-effects — Symptoms— Causes of Death—Treatment 180—185 Intraorbital Aneurism—Erroneous Opinion regarding—Causes—Symptoms- Pathology—Diagnosis—Prognosis—Treatment ...... 185—188 Subclavian Artery—Symptoms—Diagnosis—Results—Treatment—Ligature of the Innominate Artery—Table of Cases—Ligature of First Part of Right Subclavian —Table of Cases—Ligature of First Part of Left Subclavian—Of Third Pai-t of Subclavian—Distal Ligature of Subclavian beyond the Scaleni—Amputation at Shoulder-joint, and Distal Ligature—Ligature of Vertebral Artery . '. 188—199 Axillary Artery—Symptoms—Diagnosis^—Treatment—Ligature of Third Part of Subclavian—Accidents during Ligature of the Third Part of the Subclavian— Ligature behind the Scalenus anticus—Results of Ligature of the Subclavian— Suppuration of the Sac—Secondary HEemorrhage—Gangrene of Hand and Arm—Treatment of Inflamed Axillary Aneurism threatening Suppuration— Ligature of Axillary Artery .......... 199—215 Arm, Forearm, and Hand—Rarity of Spontaneous Aneurism—Treatment—Liga- ture of Brachial Artery—Ligature of Radial and Ulnar Arteries . . 215—219 Chapter XLV.—Aneurisms of the Abdomen and Lower Extremities. Abdominal Aorta and its Branches—Symptoms—Diagnosis—Treatment— Compression of Abdominal Aorta 220—223 Inguinal Aneurism—Symptoms—Diagnosis—^Treatment by Compression—Liga- ture of External Iliac Artery—Abernethy's Operation Modified—Cooper's Method —Results—Ligature of Common Iliac—Results—The Old Operation—Ligature of Aorta—Table of Cases—Aneurism of Internal Iliac and its Branches— Gluteal and Sciatic Aneurisms—Treatment—Ligatute of Internal Iliac . 223—236 Femoral and Popliteal Aneurisms—Aneurism of Deep Femoral Artery—Treat- ment—Aneurism of Superficial Femoral and Popliteal Arteries—Symptoms— Diagnosis—Treatment—Compression—Flexion—Ligature of Common Femoral —Of Superficial Femoral—Results—Accidents attending Operation—Wound of Femoral Vein—Secondary HiEmorrhage—Gangrene—Return of Pulsation in Sac —Secondary Aneurism—Ligature of Femoral Artery in Middle of Thigh—Liga- ture of External Iliac in Popliteal Aneurism—Double Popliteal Aneurism- Diffused Popliteal Aneurism—Treatment—Old Operation-Amputation . 236—250 Aneurism of the Tibial Arteries—Ligature of Popliteal /Vi-tery—Of Posterior Tibial—Of Anterior Tibial—Of Arteria Dorsalis Pedis—Of Peroneal Ai-tery 250—254