DISEASES OF THE TON(JUE. 686 Carcinoma of thio Tonguf.—Squamous carcinoma is the form of cancer met with in tlie tongue. Scirrhus was formerly described as beincr common, and we are not now in a position to deny that it may occur, if the growth commencos in the floor of tlio mouth, and arises possibly from the sub- lingual gland. It is however so rare that it need not be furfchei- considered in describing cancer of the tongue. Cancer almost always commences on the edge, usually at the middle third extending back to the anterior pillar of the fauces, but it may occur at the tip of the tongue, in the floor of the mouth, or, in rare cases, on the dorsum. It most usually occurs in persons between the ages of 40 and GO. It is more frequent in men than in women ; according to Barker in the propoi-tion of 247 to 4G. It may develop Avithout any evident cause in persons who are otherwise perfectly healthy, whose teeth are sound, and in whom there ha« been no pre-existing disease of the tongue; but it may also occur in conse- quence of local irritation, as from the abrasion produced by a broken tooth. In other cases, as before pointed out, it is preceded for some years by super- ficial glossitis or other chronic disease of the mucous membrane (p. 07'.)). It may arise in an old syphiHtic crack or unhealed fissure. If it appear in an otherwise healthy tongue, as a tubercle or warty growth, this is usually flat, indurated, and of a purplish-red colour, gradually running into ulceration; if as a fissure, this from the commencement has an indurated base, a foul surface, and a callous edge. As the ulceration extends, a chasm with everted edges and ragged sides, and a sloughy surface that cannot be cleansed, gradu- ally forms over a widely indurated base (Fig. 743) ; there is great foetor of the breath, with profuse salivation ; and, as the disease pro- gresses, implication of the mucous membrane and of the structures of the floor of the mouth, and of the glands under the jaw and in the neck, takes place. Sometimes the whole organ is infiltrated by the growth, becoming hard, nodulated, ulcerated, and in some parts covered by thin red cicatrices, and in others by foul putty-like accumulations of epithelium. The pain is very severe in most cases ; every movement of the organ in articulation, mastication, or deglutition causing great suti^ering. The friction or compression by the teeth, and the profuse salivation, all aggravate the patient's distress. The pain is not confined to the tongue, but runs through all the branches of the fifth nerve over the side and crown of the head to the face and the ear. The lymphatic glands under the jaw usually become involved at an early period ; though the disease may exist for a year or more without their being implicated. The fatal termination is brought about by four conditions, either singly or in conjunction : 1. The pain not only wears out the patient by depriving him of rest, but being greatly aggravated by mastication and deglutition, causes him to avoid these acts, and hence leads to a process of gradual starvation, either by his abstaining from food altogether, or taking a liquid and innutri- tions diet, because it is more easily swallowed than solid and more substantial Fig. 743.—Carcinoma of Tongue.