TUBERCULOUS CARIES. 283 extremity of a long bone is affected, the early symptoms may closely resemble those due to disease of the articulation itself. As the process of suppuration i extends to the surface the skin becomes oedematous and inflamed, and finally a I superficial abscess forms over the bone. When this has burst the character of i the disease will be recognized, as the bare and rough bone may be felt with a probe, which sinks into depressions upon its surface, which though rough, yields readily to the pressure of the instrument. The cavity of the abscess gradually contracts, leaving sinuses, which discharge pus in varying amount. The discharge readily decomposes, unless means be taken to prevent this. Granules of bone, the minute sequestra from necrotic caries, are often inter- mixed with the discharge, which has been shown to contain a considerable excess of phosphate of lime. The sinuses are generally surrounded or concealed by high spongy granulations, and the neigh- bouring skin is duskily inflamed. These sinuses are often long and tortuous. They wind along and around the muscles, the pus finding its way along the lines of least resistance in the intermuscular planes of areolar tissue, the external opening being often situated at a considerable distance, perhaps many inches, from the diseased bone. The difficulty of drain- ing these long sinuses often leads to the accumu- lation of septic pus, at a certain degree of pressure in the deeper parts, in consequence of which the suppuration may be maintained almost indefinitely, the patient finally dying of ex- haustion, chronic septic poisoning, or albume- noid degeneration of internal organs. In the earlier stages tuberculous disease of bone is not necessarily associated with any con- stitutional disturbance, although not Un- Fig. 513.—Tuberculous Disease of frequently the patient is already the subject of BacUus and of the index Finger, the characteristic symptoms of the strumous diathesis. In many instances, however, even though the local disease be very limited, a definite nocturnal elevation of temperature will be met with, and may be a valuable aid to the con-ect diagnosis of a doubtful case. On naked-eye examination of the bone from a case of tuberculous caries it will be found to be much more porous and fr-agile than natural, the cancelli being thinned and the spaces enlarged. Here and there cavities will be seen where the cancelli have been completely destroyed and the spaces have coalesced. In these cavities loose pieces of dead bone may be lying. A fresh specimen shows the following appearances proceeding from the circumference to the centre of the carious patch. The earliest morbid change is increased vascularity of the medullary tissue, which is redder than natural; the next change observed is that the normal fatty or dark red semifluid marrow has been replaced by pmk gelatinous granulation tissue, and that the cancelK are becoming thinned. Nearer the centre the bony cancelli entirely disappear, and the new tissue becomes opaque and pale yellow ft-om fatty degeneration. In the centre It may form a caseous mass, softening in parts into a thick, curdy, puriform fluid. Grey granulations are seldom to be recognized. If they are seen they