383 EXCISION OF SHOULDER-JOINT. necrosis of the upper part of the shaft of the humerus is common, an'd the appearance of the part when sinuses are present may closely resemble that of joint disease. In removing the sequestra care must be taken not to open the joint, and the incisions must be planned with due regard to the musculo- spiral nerve. In the majority of cases in which operation is necessary for tuberculous disease of the shoulder excision of the head of the humerus is required, but should the Surgeon on opening the joint find the bones healthy he will pro- bably be justified in removing the diseased synovial membrane as completely as possible, and making an endeavour to save the head of the bone. Cases also occur in which the latter is so little affected that a partial removal or division through the anatomical neck may be practised instead of complete removal below the tuberosities. Excision of the Shoulder-Joint for Disease.—In addition to tuber- culous disease the head of the humerus has been excised for sarcoma, but this operation is not usually advisable in such cases. Bickersteth has successfully removed the head of the humerus for exostosis. In cases of intracapsular fracture through the neck of the humerus, Avith detachment of the head of the bone, disorganization of the joint has resulted. The joint has been laid open, and the loose head of the bone removed in two instances by Brainard of Chicago ; the patients recovering with useful limbs. Operation.—Partial Excision of the head of the humerus in some cases of caries has been practised by slitting up sinuses and the application of the gouge or sharp spoon to the diseased osseous surface. Occasionally, as in cases reported by Fergusson and Sedillot, these operations have been attended with successful results. But not unfrequently they fail to effect a cure, the disease extending, and the sinuses not healing, so that eventually excision of the whole of the diseased head of the bone has been required. Complete Excision of the head of the humerus is the operation usually required. It may be practised in several different ways, the lines of incision through the soft parts being varied according to the conditions of the case. They are most commonly made on the front or outer side of the joint through the deltoid muscle, but in exceptional cases the head of the bone may be removed from behind. Excision may be performed by the single longitudinal, or its modifications the ~1 or J-shaped incision, or by a [J-shaped incision or flap-operation. The operation by the single longitudinal incision may be performed as follows. The patient lying on his back, with his shoulder slightly projecting over the edge of the table, the Surgeon enters the knife to the outside and above the coracoid process, about half an inch below the clavicle, and carries it directly downwards for from three to four inches, stopping immediately above the msertion of the pectoralis major. The first incision should divide the skin and fat, and pass through the anterior fibres of the deltoid, so that when the wound is held open the capsule of the shoulder-joint comes into view. This incisiou is immediately external to the cephalic vein, which should not be wounded, and divides no important artery or nerve. The wound being now held open with blunt hooks or copper spatulae (Pig. 548), the bicipital o-roove should be felt for between the great and small tuberosities of the humerus \ longitudmal incision is then made firmly on to the bone along the inner'side of the groove, dividing the periosteum covering the head of the bone and the