262 INFLAMMATION OF BONK AND Fl'^ EFFECTS. growth, while at the same time new bone is developed beneath the periosteunj. 'rims, even when the tumour greatly exceeds the normal bone in size, it is often Ibund to be still surrounded by a shell of osseous tissue. Syphilitic Osteitis has already been described (Vol. I., p. ]157). Necrosis of the Compact Tissue may be the result of direct injury, as a severe blow. A portion of bone may perish owing to its vascular supply being cut of by separation of the periosteum by injury or by the formation of pus Ijeueath the membrane ; and in like manner suppuration in the medullary canal may cause the death of the neighbouring compact tissue. When the com- pact tissue becomes involved in acute inflammation extending to it, either fi-om tlie medulla or from the periosteum, it is very apt to necrose from pressure upon the vessels in the liaversian canals by the inflammatory exudation within them. Chronic osteoplastic osteitis may also, in some cases, end in necrosis from gradual obliteration of the Haversian canals. It is quite possible that small fragments of bone may die and subsequently be absorbed ; but that this may take place it is necessary that the dead portion be of small size and free from irritating properties. If it have perished in consequence of some infective inflammation, or have been impregnated with decomposing matter, its absorption becomes impossible, for absorption of bone is carried out solely by the medium of the living cells before described, and these cannot exist in a healthy state in the presence of the virus of an infective process or the products of putrefaction. Larger fragments of dead bone are always separated from the living and cast olf. This is accomplished entirely at the expense of the living bone. The process by which it is carried out is merely one of rarefying osteitis carried to its highest stage, and ending in complete destruction of the osseous tissue where the living is in contact with the dead, its place being occupied by granulation tissue. The layers of this tissue touching the dead bone break down into pus, and thus complete separation is accomplished. The further details of the process will be given when treating of necrosis clinically. Inflammatory Processes in the Medulla of Long Bones. — The marrow of a long bone is composed of fat, supported by a delicate connective tissue and traversed by vessels. It contains numerous cells resembling white corpuscles. In contact with the solid bone the connective tissue assumes an imperfect membranous form and is more abundantly vascular, and this layer has received the name of the medullary membrane. It is unnecessary to enter into any great detail in describing the inflammatory processes that occur in the marrow of bone, as they are the same as in other soft structures. The forms of inflammation occurring in the medulla are the following :—(1) Simple acute osteomyehtis. (2) Diffuse acute osteomyelitis ; («) septic, {h) infective. (3) Chronic osteomyelitis ; («) simple, (&) tuberculous. Simple Acute Osteomyelitis is usually of ti'aumatic origui. The phenomena observed are the same as in other soft parts, viz., dilatation of the vessels, exudation and migration of the corpuscles, and gradual disappearance of the' normal tissues before the new cells. In compound fractures and nmputations it occasionally ends'in suppuration, a small collection of pus sometimes forming which discharges itself through the open end of the medullary canal. In simple fractures suppuration never takes place, but the products of the process are developed into bone, thus forming the internal callus (vide Repair of Fracture. Vol. I., p. 52!)).