LIGATURE OF THIRD PART OF SUBCLAVIAN. 203 the areolar tissue being picked up in small pieces with the forceps and scratched througli with the point of the scalpel or torn with a blunt probe or steel director. When the external jugular vein comes into view it must be treated according to its position : if at either end of the wound, it may be di-awn aside with a blunt hook ; if in the middle, a double ligature must be passed and the vein tied in two places and divided between them. Occasionally the transverse cervical and suprascapular veins form a plexus with the external jugular immediately above the clavicle, and the difficulty of exposing the artery is then greatly increased. The transverse cervical artery lies normally above the wound, and the suprascapular is concealed behind the clavicle, but in exceptional cases they may be found in the space exposed in the operation. They must then be drawn out of the way with blunt hooks. By carefully teasing through the areolar tissue, the external edge of the scalenus anticus is reached ; this is the " directing line" down which the finger is run until the tubercle of the first rib is felt. This is the guide to the artery, which will be found immediately above and a little behind it, covered, however, and bound down by a dense fascia. Immediately above the artery, and in close contact with it, is the lowest cord of the brachial plexus, that Fig. 486.—Diagram of Right Subclavian Artery in Third Part of its Coiirse, crossert by transversalis colli artery and vein. ,A. Subclavian artery, v. External jugular receiving transversalis colli veins, n. Bra- chial plexus of nerves, m. Onio-hyoid muscle. Fig. 487.—Diagram of the Relations of the Third part of the Subclavian Artery : t. trapezius ; o.h. onio-hyoid; s.n. scalenus anticus; s.m. sterno- mastoid; v. external jugular vein; n. brachial plexus; ft. artery. formed by the last cervical and first dorsal nerves ; beneath the artery is the first rib, upon which it can be felt rolling under the finger when firm pressure is made. At the same time pulsation will be felt, but this must not be taken as proof that the structure beneath the finger is the vessel, for the lowest cord of the brachial plexus lies so close to the subclavian artery that it receives a communicated impulse from it. On firm pressure the nerve still retains its round form, while the artery flattens out, and its surface becomes slightly concave. The thick fascia covering the artery having been carefully opened with the edge of the knife, the needle is passed from the nerve, as low down as possible, so as to avoid any risk of injuring the pleura by slipping over the inner border of the first rib. The subclavian vein is so far below the clavicle that there is no possibility of wounding it. In a considerable proportion of cases the posterior scapular artery will be found springing from the main trunk in this part of its course. In 296 arteries examined by Quain, it arose from the third part as a separate branch in 101, or as nearly as possible one in three cases. If this condition is met with, the liga- ture must be applied as far as possible to the proximal side of the branch. If necessity requires the ligature to be applied close to the branch, it is perhaps