DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. IOX2 in cases of culculous pyonephrosis if the other conditions are favourable. The operation is described at paj^^e 1020. Examination of the Kidney by Abdominal Section has been advocated by Ivnowsley Thornton, as appHcable to the majority of cases of calculus or other diseases of the kidney, on the following grounds: First, that by'ab- dominal exploration we can ascertain certainly whether there is another kidney, and if it is healthy ; secondly, the presence of a calculus, and its exact situation can be more accurately determined by manipulation from the peritoneal cavity than from a lumbar incision ; thirdly, if it be determined to remove a stone by lumbar nephrotomy, the operation is facilitated bysteadyinjr and manipulating the kidney from within the abdomen ; fourthly, if the stone happen to be lodged in the ureter, this condition can be recognized and dealt with from the abdorninal incision. Lastly, he maintains that the abdominal incision in no way adds to the danger of the operation. In Thornton's own hands the combined operation has given excellent results in several cases, but most Surgeons prefer reserving it for exceptional cases. In all cases in which there is but little enlargement, both sides of the kidney can be examined from the lumbar wound, and probably a stone is not more likely to be missed when searched for in this way than when the kidney is handled from the abdomen. Complete Suppression of Urine may result from the simultaneous obstruction of both ureters by calculi. It has also been known to occur after excision of one kidney from obstruction of the ureter of the remaining organ ; and, in a remarkable case recorded by G-odlee, complete suppression, which ended fatally, was due to obstruction by a calculus of the right ureter, with suppuration in and around the kidney, the left ureter being free and the kidney in a condition of chronic interstitial nephritis. The symptoms of this so-called " obstructive suppression " diflFer in many respects, as WilKam Roberts and others have pointed out, from those Avhich occur in " non-obstructive suppression " due to Bright's disease and other causes, including the reflex disturbances following the passage of instruments along the urethra (Chap. LXXI.) The duration of life is usually nine to eleven days, and for about a week no serious symptoms supervene. During the last two or three days of life the most important symptoms are muscular twitchings and gradually increasing weakness ; the pupils are contracted; the mind remains clear to the last, and convulsions and coma are rare ; the appetite is lost and the tongue dry, but there may be no vomiting; there is often profuse sweating. Death is preceded by increasing drowsiness, and sometimes by slight delirium. Frequently a small quantity of pale urine, of low specific gravity, is passed at irregular intervals. The successful treatment of cases of obstructive suppression by operation may justly be regarded as a triumph of renal surgery. Ralfe and G-odlee have recorded the case of a woman, aged twenty-six, in whom suppression of urine followed several attacks of bilateral renal colic. Operation was undertaken after the suppression had persisted for fifty-three hours. The urethra was first dilated and the orifices of the ureters explored for stone, with a negative result. The left kidney was then exposed in the loin, and a stone removed from the ureter about two inches below the kidney. The secretion of the kidney was re-established, but the attacks of colic on the right side recurred. A month later the right kidney and ureter were explored, but only some gravel and mucus were found in the pelvis. Eleven days after-