TREATMENT OF INTUSSUSCEPTION. 917 unfavourable to allow immediate reaction of the strictured portion, but this may be attempted as a secondary operation. Treatment of Intussusception.—There can be little doubt that spon- taneous reduction occurs in many of the slighter cases of intussusception, but when the disease is fully developed the only possible mode of natural cure is by gangrene of the intussusception and its subsequent separation and ex- pulsion. This mode of cure does not occur in more than a quarter of all cases. In children under 10 years of age, in whom 50 per cent, of all cases occur, recovery by separation of the intussusception is very rare, certainly not happening once in twenty cases. Under two years of age it occurs in less than 2 per cent. In these cases, therefore, unless the invagination be reduced by mechanical means, death is almost inevitable. In all cases, as soon as the diagnosis is made, small doses of opium should be given to arrest peristaltic movement and thus to prevent the increase of the invagination. Injection should then be tried without delay. In order to do this the patient must be put fully under the influence of chloroform to prevent straining and to relax spasm in the bowel. Air or water may be injected by means of a common Higginson's syringe, the anus being caulked around the tube with wet wool; or when fluid injections are used they may be allowed to flow in through a tube attached to a vessel which is raised about three feet above the level of the patient's body. Care must be taken not to use too much force or to carry the distension too far, as serious injury to the intestine has been known to result. At the same time the tumour should be grasped if possible through the relaxed abdominal walls and gently manipulated, as this seems in some cases to aid in reduction. In a case recently in University College Hospital, reduction was in fact effected by manipulation alone through the thin abdominal walls of a young child. As the inflation proceeds the tumour will be felt gradually to move in the direction of the caecum, and at last to disappear, leaving perhaps a sense of fulness behind it due to the swollen state of the gut. Injection has been successful in a large number of recorded cases, especially in infants. It can evidently be of use only in the ileo-caecal and colic varieties. In a case under my care in a child aged ten years, the patient not being anesthetized felt " as if a bone broke " in the abdomen as the reduction took place. If injection fails after a proper trial, little will be gained by repeating it. The changes of spontaneous cure are so small that, if injection has failed, laparotomy should be performed and an attempt made to reduce the invagina- tion. This operation was first suggested by Nuck, and has been successfully performed in a considerable number of cases. The usual median incision should be made and the intussusception drawn well up into view, so that its condition may be seen. Reduction must be attempted by a process of kneading and drawing down the sheath, rather than by forcibly attempting to drag out the entering tube If reduction is impossible, the Surgeon has three courses open to him : 1 To open the bowel above the intussusception and leave the latter untouched • 2. To excise the intussusception and stitch the ends of the bowel into the wound, thus making an artificial anus to be subsequently dealt with if recovery follow ; 8. To excise the intussusception and suture together the ends of the bowel. The first method is, as a rule, the only one available on account of the patient's condition and the extent of the invagination The