1049 LATERAL LITHOTOMY. be made a little smaller. A p'ohe-pointed motomy Imife of the size and shape here represented should also be at hand (Fig. 854). The should have a deep groove on its left side, occupying nearly one- third of tiie instrument; it should be well curved, of as large a size as the urethra will admit, and have a roughened handle (Fig. 860). . ,, The fmxeps must not be too heavy, but should be of a good length m the handles, and have the joint well set back ; the inside of the blades, as recom- mended by Liston, should be lined with linen, to prevent the stone from filippino- (Ficr. 856). Coxeter has made them with open blades, but lined with liSen as heretofore (Fig. 855) ; in this way, as there is less metal, the weight is diminished, and the diameter of the instrument with a stone m its grasp is materially lessened. The ordinary forceps are straight, but it is ad- vantageous to be provided with some that are curved (Fig. 857). The handles should be made with a loop on one side and a ring on the other ; the ring for Fig. 856.— Forceps. Fig. 85T.— Curved Forceps. Fig. 858.— Scoop in HancUe. Fig. 859.- Scoop. Fig. 860. —Staft-. Fig. 861.- Searclier. the thumb should be placed somewhat obliquely. The scoops of different sizes, and curved, can be used most conveniently when fixed in roughened handles (Figs. 858 and 859). The hole should be of gum-elastic, well rounded at the end, and provided with silver rings, and may be petticoated. The searchet- is a shghtly curved sound, having a bulbous extremity (Fig. 861). The syringe should be provided with Gross's ball nozzle, which propels a reversed current. In describing the operation of lateral lithotomy, we shall first of all examine seriatim the different steps of an operation that presents no unusual complication or difficulty ; we shall then consider the difficulties that may be met with, the accidents that may occur during the operation, and the principal sources of danger and the causes of death after its performance. Operation.^—The patient should be kept as quiet as possible for about a week or ten days preceding the operation ; his diet should be properly regu- lated, and the bowels properly relieved. On. the day preceding the operation, a dose of castor-oil or some other aperient should be administered; and on the