URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTRITY. I094 many disfcinguishcd Surgeons, more especially by Malgaigne, under the name ot Lithotnpbic Lithotomy," the operation was first performed on definite lines by Dolbeau of Paris in 1802. He opened the membranous urethra on a grooved staff, dilated the neck of the bladder with a six-bladed dilator crushed the stone with a powerful " lithoclast," and extracted the fragmen'te with small forceps and a scoop. The operation found little favour with Surgeons, for it has generally been considered that, when lithotrity is not available on account of the large size of the stone, suprapubic lithotomy is the proper treatment. Reginald Harrison has, however, recently advocated the revival of the operation in certain cases. He opens the membranous urethra and paf^seg the finger along a AVheelhouse's small gorget into the bladdei-. The stone IS crushed with forceps shaped somewhat like the blades of a lithotrite, the larger ones being provided with a screw in the handles. The fragments are removed with an aspirator or forceps. Among the advantages claimed for perinfeal lithotomy by Harrison, are, the rapidity with which a large stone can be removed, the opportunity which it allows of introducing the finger into the bladder, the possibility of dealing with some forms of prostatic enlarge- ment, and the benefit of the temporary drainage when there is cystitis. Harrison has performed the operation fourteen times. CHOICE OF OPERATION FOR STONE. The various methods by which a calculus may be extracted from the bladder have now been described, together with the dangers attending the diflFerent operations and the mortahty following them. It now remains to consider the relative merits of the available methods, in such a way as may help the Surgeon to decide in any given case by which operation he may most safely proceed to remove the stone. Both lithotomy and lithotrity have been reduced to great simplicity and certainty ; but neither can be exclusively practised. It is undoubtedly the duty of the Surgeon to make himself familiar with the practice of both, and to adopt that which promises best in the particular instance with which he has to do. In dealing with this important subject it will be convenient to consider children and adults separately, for the circumstances which determine the decision of the Surgeon are somewhat different m the two cases. In Boys under Puberty a stone in the bladder may be removed by lithotrity, by lateral lithotomy, or by the suprapubic operation. Median lithotomy should never be undertaken in children, for reasons already given at p. 1073. Until recently the routine treatment was lateral lithotomy, and the operation was attended with great success. Thus, of 35 children under 10, operated on by Cheselden, only 1 died ; of 58 children cut for stone at St. Thomas's, but 1 case proved fatal ; and the average mortality in children is not more than about 1 in 14. Of 48 cases recently performed in hospital practice in this country only 2 died. Since suprapubic lithotomy has been revived, however, and lithotrity in young children has been proved by Keegan and others to be a highly successful operation, the lateral operation has to a considerable extent been abandoned, some Surgeons regarding the suprapubic operation as the best method for routine adoption, and others practising lithotrity as the operation of choice and reserving suprapubic lithotomy for