679 GLOSSITIS—LEUCOFLAKIA. Acute Inflammation of the Tongue or Glossitis is not a common affection The most frequent form is thcat which arises from immoderate and injndicious administration of mercury. In this the tongue becomes greatly swollen : it may hang from the mouth, with profuse salivation and inability to swallow or speak. The sides are marked by deep impressions of the teeth, in which after a time foul ulcers may form. Acute glossitis with great swell- ing of the organ occasionally occurs after fevers, and more rarely without any apparent exciting cause, when it is thought by some to be catarrhal, and to result from exposure to cold. In this form there is acute pain, with consider- able febrile disturbance. The tongue swells rapidly, so that in a few hours it may reach such a size as to threaten suffocation. The dyspnoea may be due to the obstruction caused by the swollen tongue, or to extension of the oedema to the aryt^eno-epiglottidean folds. The inflammation may end in resolution or lead rapidly to the formation of pus. The Treatment of glossitis varies with the cause and the degree of swelling. If of mercurial origin, the removal of the cause, and the administration of saline purgatives and a chlorate of potash gargle, will usually arrest the progress of the inflammation. If the swelHng be very great, more especially in the idiopathic form of the disease, the only efficient treatment consists in making a free incision along the dorsum of the tongue on each side of the raphe, which gives free and immediate relief by the escape of blood and infiltrated fluids. I have seen a patient, who was nearly suffocated by the size of his tongue, relieved at once by such incisions, and nearly well in the course of a few hours. Chronic Abscess of the Tongue, though rare, occasionally occurs. I have seen several instances of it. The abscess forms a small deeply seated elastic but firm tumour, which sometimes feels slightly movable. There is no discoloration or other change in the mucous membrane or epithelium of the tongue. The walls of these abscesses are very thick and dense ; hence they may easily be mistaken for solid tumours. The abscess is always very chronic;, hence the hability to error in diagnosis is increased. It is commonly seated at the edge and towards the anterior part, but it may occupy the middle of the tongue. It is probable that in some cases at least the abscess is tuberculous. A boy was once brought to me with an elastic tumour of slow growth, and of about the size of a small plum, situated deeply in the centre of the tongue : on puncturing it, about half an ounce of healthy pus was let out, after which the cavity speedily closed. The Treatment consists in making a longitudinal incision into the abscess. In all cases of doubt in diagnosis, this should be done before any other operation is undertaken. Chronic Superficial Glossitis — Psoriasis or Ichthyosis of the Tongue—Leucoplakia.—Under these names a diseased condition of the tongue has been described which is far from uncommon in this country and in France, but is said to be much less frequent in Germany. The disease consists essentially of a chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane of the tongue. In the earliest stages there is hyperaemia of the papilte, Avith some swelling. If seen at this period the mucous membrane presents red patches, usually limited to the dorsum of the tongue, but occasionally appearing simultaneously on the cheeks, and passing through the same stages there as on the tongue. It can be recognized clearly only after the mucous membrane has been thoroughly dried with a towel. This must never be omitted, for unless the surface is well dried it is impossible to observe accurately the condition of the