^°^4 DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. mobility of which depends upon the presence of a more or less perfect mesonephron. CInucally the two varieties ar'e usually indistinguishable although the existence of a very wide range of mobility in all directions I suggestive ot the floating variety. True floating kidney is rare, and probably always congenital. Movable kidney is very much more common in females than males, and the right kidney is more often affected than the left Amonc thp causes which are supposed to act in the production of the affection are a relaxed condition of the abdominal walls following pregnancy, rapid absorn- tion of the periuephritic fat due to general wasting, and falls or other injuries Symptoms.—An extremely movable kidney may be discovered accidentally on abdominal examination, and be altogether unproductive of discomfort The most common symptom is a heavy dragging pain in the loins, which is liable to exacerbations, and may be attended with nausea. The affection is not uncommon in neurotic subjects; it may be attended with gastric disturbances, and the pain is apt to be increased at the menstrual periods Intermittent hydronephrosis is an occasional complication, and is doubtless due to twists and kinks of the ureter; the periodical disappearance of the swelhng will be observed to be followed by an increased flow of urine. Hematuria and albuminuria have also been known to occur, apparently from transient disturbances of the circulation in the kidney. Abnormal mobility of the kidney may be associated with disease of the organ, such as calculus—a fact which must be borne in mind when prominent renal symptoms are present. The Diagnosis of movable kidney is usually easy. Among the manv conditions with which it has been confounded are ovarian cysts, tumours of the mesentery and omentum, and distended gall-bladder. The latter affection has not unfi'equently been mistaken for movable kidney, and it is an interest- ing fact that the two conditions may be present together, each being possibly the result, as Morris suggests, of tight lacing. Treatment.—In some cases all the symptoms due to a movable kidney are relieved by the use of a padded elastic belt, which should always be tried before other means are suggested. Operation is justified if the pain is extreme or if there are evidences of obstruction of the ureter or renal vessels. Nephrectomy has repeatedly been performed for this condition, but it is a severe measure in a disease attended with so little danger to life, and should be reserved for the exceptional cases in which the kidney is extensively diseased, or in which the operation described below has failed and the symptoms are extremely severe. Newman of Glasgow has collected 30 cases of nephrectomy for movable kidney of which 9 died. In 17 cases the excised kidney was normal. A simpler method of treatment, which consists in suturing the kidney or the periuephritic tissue to the parietes, was first adopted by Hahu of Berhn in 1881. This operation, w^hich is known as nephrorrhaphy,'''' has since frequently been performed with considerable success. Nephrorrhaphy.—The kidney is exposed by the lumbar incision described at p. 102l'. The method of fixing the kidney originally adopted consisted in suturing the periuephritic areolar tissue to the divided muscles of the abdominal wall, but a more certain result is obtained by passing two or three sutures through the kidney substance itself. Silkworm gut, silk, or kangaroo tendon ■