ATaJS^-Y OF TEE BLADDER: RESULTS. 1123 retention is not by any means so common as in men, but the bladder will ,oraetimes attain an enormous size, rising as high as the umbihcus ; and such larcre bladders have been tapped under the supposition that the tumour was an ovarian cyst, or some similar growth. I once witnessed such a case m which rLie Surgeon, to his surprise, on tapping the tumour, drew off a quantity ot •leai- and healthy urine, instead of ovarian fluid ; fortunately no bad ettects followed. This retention with dribbling occurs in consequence of the bladder, ■IS it rises out of the pelvis, elongating its neck; and as the body becomes bent lorward over the pubes a sharp curve or angle is formed at the junction of the neck and body of the viscus, through which a small stream of urine continues to dribble away, and escapes rather by its own gravity than by any expulsive effort on the part of the patient. Diagnosis.—Retention from Atony can easily be distinguished from reten- rion from Obstruction. In the former, on introducing the catheter when the patient is lying on his back, the instrument will not only readily enter, but the urine will simply flow out in a slow uniform stream, not being projected in a jet by the contraction of the walls of the organ, but rising and falling in obedience to the respiratory movements, or to the contractions of the abdo- minal muscles. In retention from obstruction, some difficulty will be ex- perienced in passing the instrument at some one point, either in the urethra or It the prostate ; and when once it is introduced into the bladder, the urine will ■scape in a fr-ee and far projected stream. Results.—The habitual retention of a small quantity of urine in an atonic bladder which is incapable of discharging completely the whole of its contents occurs much more frequently than is suspected. The quantity thus retained will vary from an ounce to half a pint—the patient believing that he has emptied his bladder. The existence of this residual urine is readily determined by the introduction of a catheter after the patient thinks he has emptied his bladder. In consequence of the bladder never being completely emptied, there will be frequent, sudden, and almost irresistible calls to pass urine, so as to simulate irritabihty of the bladder. The retained urine becomes offensive, ammoniacal or fishy in odour, and mixed with mucus or muco-pus. The con- stituents of the urine become re-absorbed or are not excreted, derange the health, give rise to impaired nutrition, and, being eliminated by the skin, irritate it and occasion intractable forms of skin disease. I have seen chronic eczema of the most inveterate character produced in this way, and yield to treatment only on care being taken to keep the bladder clear and free from residual urine. The effects of the presence of retained urine and of retention with dribbling- are not identical. When retained urine is constantly present the general health suffers, the patient becoming slowly poisoned by the inability to get rid of an excretion. In retention with dribbling the danger is more immediate, and directly dependent on the liability to secondary disease of the bladder and kidneys. Subacute cystitis occurs as the result of the continued over- distension of the bladder. The symptoms are such as are described at p. 1003 as being indicative of urinary fever. The patient suffers from chills or slight rigors followed by depression and low spirits. Fever of a typhoid type comes on, with brown tongue, occasional retchings, mild delirium, and great prostra- tion. This condition occurring in an aged man long suffering from atony of the bladder, with most probably an unsound state of the kidneys secondary to 4 c 2