RESULTS OF LIGATURE OF SUJiCLAVLAN, 209 second month. The recoveries, likewise, took place at all periods after the lio-atiire of the vessel, between a few days, as in Porter's, and six weeks, as in Halton's, case. An axillary aneurism that has suppurated may burst either externally, or into the lungs or pleura, or both. It usually bursts externally : the tumour enlarges, with much pain and tension ; a part of the skin covering it becomes iuflamed ; fluctuation can be here felt, and, if an incision be not made, the tumour will give way, discharging dark-coloured pus, mixed with broken-down and disintegrated coagulura, perhaps sooner or later followed by a stream of arterial blood. Occasionally, but more rarely, the sac, extending inwards, perforates the cavity of the chest and becomes adherent to the pleui-a, and may give way into its cavity; or, by pressing upon the lungs, may become incorporated with them. Of this remarkable termination two instances are recorded, in one of which recovery took place. The first case is one in which BuUen ligatured the subclavian artery for axillary aneurism. Eighteen days after the operation the tumour began to increase, and symptoms of suppuration developed. On the twenty-sixth day six or eight ounces of bloody pus w-ere expectorated during a paroxysm of coughing, and the tumour suddenly diminished to half its size ; it was now punctured, and five ounces of the same kind of matter were let out with great relief. When the patient coughed, air passed into and distended the sac thTough an aperture between th-^. first and second ribs, through which the contents of the tumour had escaped into the lung. The discharge from the external aperture greatly decreased ; the cough le'ssened ; and finally, three months after the operation, the patient was quite well. Gross tied the subclavian artery for axillary aneurism on the 18th of February. After the performance of the operation the contents of the tumour solidified, and its volume progressively diminished. On the 15th of March the patient suliered from fever, and slight tenderness on the apex of the tumour was perceptible. On the 16th he was suddenly seized with intense pam in the chest, which was most severe at the base of the rio-ht luno- and extended up towards the axilla. Eespiration throughout the right lun^' was bronchial, and there was dulness on percussion over the lower ribs*^ the axillary swelling had suddenly disappeared at the time of the attack, o'n the 18th the patient experienced a sensation as if a fluid were passin- from the pleural cavity into that of the aneurism ; and a splashing sound was heard at every mspiration, the noise resembhng that produced by shaking water in a closed vessel. On the 20th he died. The aneurism was found to communicate in*^l^^'^^-q"^^ters in length and an inch and a half in width, with the pleural cavity ; this opening was situated between the first causJbv ' ^^^^bviously the result of ulceration and absorption, Snni ^ the pressure of the tumour. Both ribs were denuded of thei periosteum. The nght side of the chest contained nearly three quarts of bloody serum, mixed with laminated clots and flakes of lymph Besides these cases, a somewhat similar one has been recorded by Neret of Nancy. A patient was admitted into the hospital, suffering from llnoptysis and on examination he was found to have an aneurism of the leftrbcWn artery 1 ^ admissTon and T :h~ ^^""^ ^—"^^'^ ^ 1-^e'cavity in the^P^r" VOL. II. L