DIFFUSED POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 247 needle passed from the outer side, the same precautions being taken as in the higher operation to avoid wounding the vein. The Hgature should, if possible, be placed about one inch above the origin of the anastomotic branch. The eiTors that have to be guarded against in this operation, are, first, operating too low down. It must be remembered that Hunter's canal is situated midway between the groin and the knee. Secondly, if the wound be made too far out—in the guiding-line of the artery instead of a finger's breadth internal to it—the outer border of the sartorius may be missed, and the vastus internus exposed instead. At this point there is usually an interval in the muscular fibres of the muscle that may be mistaken for the edge of the sartorius. The error is, as a rule, easily recognized by observing the direction of the muscular fibres, those of the vastus internus being directed down- wards and outwards, while those of the sartorius are nearly vertical, slanting a little inwards. It is important that the fascia closing the canal should be opened freely, otherwise should pus form it may burrow along the artery into the ham. The External Iliac Artery may require to be tied in cases of popliteal aneurism, when the superficial and common femorals are so diseased as not to admit ligature. This occurred once to me. A gentleman who had lost the left foot and leg from spontaneous gangrene, two years afterwards became the subject of a large popliteal aneurism in the other leg. As compression failed, it was decided to tie the superficial femoral. On cutting down on the vessel the coats were found so diseased, the artery itself being dilated and slightly aneurismal, that the operation was abandoned; and, as the common femoral felt dilated and almost incompressible from calcification of its coats, it was decided to tie the external iliac. This I did with the able assistance of Sir W. Fergusson, at a rather high point, the vessel being somewhat dilated and calcified lower down. Pulsation recurred in the tumour a few hours after the operation, the collateral circulation being very free, and the patient died of secondary haemorrhage on the fifteenth day. Double Popliteal Aneurism.—In cases of this kind the artery has occa- sionally been hgatured with advantage on both sides, either simultaneously, or, with more safety, consecutively. But these cases appear to me especially adapted for the employment of pressure, so as to avoid that disturbance of the balance of the circulation which is certain to ensue when one vessel is ligatured, and which may act injuriously upon the opposite aneurism. When the popliteal aneurism is conjoined with a similar disease in the groin, ligature of the external iliac is the proper course to pursue, and will effect a cure of both. Diffused Popliteal Aneurism.—When a circumscribed popliteal aneurism suddenly becomes diffused, the patient is seized with faintness or sickness, with pain, numbness, and a hot trickling sensation in the limb, the temperature of which falls at the same time that its bulk increases, whilst the integument assumes a white, shining, mottled appearance with more or less purplish dis- coloration. After a time as the tension increases inflammation is set up, and the skin becomes red, hot, and oedematous, and the whole swelling may resemble in appearance a large abscess. Diffusion usually occurs after a circumscribed aneurism has existed in the ham for some weeks or mouths, and after some sudden exertion. In some cases, however, the disease appears to have been diffused fi'om the very first, the coats having given way, and extravasation having taken place into the areolar tissue of the