r>lSEASES OF THE TONGUE. ^^JTVr^ "-^-rr' f" occurrence of the disease. Chronic dyspepsia and habitual spu-,t-dr,nk.no. are also supposed to act as predisposing caJ That dyspepsia should take a part in its causation is not surprising, as it «' ^ye 1 known to every smoker that the tongue becomes sore more readily whon the stomach is out of order." ^ The Prognosis is always bad as to cure. Of the 110 cases recorded by Barker the disease ended in epithelioma in 43. The average duration of the disease before this took place was 14 years. Such cases must be carefully watched for the earlier signs of the invasion of epithelioma, as by early removal the disease might possibly be cured. The Treatment is not usually very satisfactory. If there is any evidence of syphilis, the patient must be treated for that disease. Smoking, the use of hot spirits and hot condiments must be prohibited. In some cases, where there is a tendency to scaliness, arsenic is of use. Locally, before ulceratioa has taken place, Barker recommends frequent washing of the mouth with a s^olution of bicarbonate of soda (gr. xx. to Bj). In a more advanced stage Joseph states that he has found daily rubbing of the surface with a concen- trated solution of lactic acid of great use. A weak solution of chromic acid IS a useful application. Butlin recommends a solution of one or two grains to the ounce for use as a mouthwash, or a stronger solution (5 to 10 grs. to ounce) to be painted on the patches and ulcers. When the surface tends to become warty, Ingals of Chicago recommends the application of the galvanic cautery. Strong chemical caustics usually aggravate the disease. If simple ulceration has taken place, a solution of bichloride of mercury (gr. ij. to 1].) applied to the dried tongue with a camel's-hair pencil twice a day will often be found extremely useful. Its chief value is as an antiseptic, as the surface of the ulcer is apt to become very foul. Other Superficial Affections of the Tongue.—Various other superficial affections of the tongue are commonly met with. The small tender whitish patches or aphthae and aphthous ulcers, met with so commonly as the result of dyspepsia and thrush, belong rather to medicine than to surgery, and need not be described here. A peculiar wandering rash which has been described under the name of " lichenoid of the tongue " by Gubler, has been called attention to by Barker in this country, who suggested for it the name of " annulus migrans." It is characterized by the appearance on the tongue of small circlets or crescentic bands of light-coloured rash, which rapidly spread centrifugally over the tongue. It causes some salivation and itching. It is not apparently due to the presence of a parasite. The disease runs a chronic course, and no treatment seems to have any effect upon it. Simple Ulceration is not uncommonly met with as a result of dyspepsia, but the most important form is that which occurs upon the side of the tongue usually opposite the molar teeth, and is dependent on the irritation of sharp projecting stumps. These ulcers cause considerable pain in eating and speaking ; they are red on the surface, with slightly raised but not everted edges, and the base may be slightly indurated from inflammatory thickening. As a rule they readily heal if the offending tooth is filed, stopped, or removed. They form the most common starting point of epithehoma, and in any doubt- ful case in which simple treatment fails to effect a cure it is wiser to excise the ulcer than to wait until certain signs of malignancy have shown themselves. Tuberculous Ulcer of the Tongue.—Tuberculous ulceration of the