DISEASES OF JOINTS. 342 applied, is singularly useful in restoring the mobility of stiffened joints. Passive movement must be undertaken with great caution, and not until every trace of active inflammation has passed away. It is better to keep the limb fixed a mouth or more longer than is absolutely necessary than to begin passive movements a day too soon. The chances of ankylosis are only increased and the chronic inflammation prolonged by abandoning the treatment by per- lect rest before the proper time. Should the treatment fail to prevent suppuration, the prognosis becomes far more unfavourable, especially when large joints, such as the knee or hip, are affected ; so, likewise, when the articular ends of the long bones are diseased, it is seldom that the joint can recover itself, as caries or necrosis is complicating the arthritis and keeping it up. When the articulation is very sinuous, as in the carpus, or when a number of small joints communicate with one another, if not directly by synovial membrane, at all events indirectly through the medium of ligament and of fibrous tissue, as in the tarsus, a cure can rarely be obtained. As soon as the presence of pus is recognized, steps must be taken to let it out completelj', and to drain ttie cavity thoroughly. It is important that this should be done if possible before the capsule gives way and the pus becomes diffused in the surrounding parts. When distinct fluctuation is felt and the cavity of the articulation is evidently full of fluid, if there be any doubt as to its nature, the joint should be punctured with the aspirator. If the fluid removed is thin serous pus mixed^ with synovia, the fomentations and other local means of treatment may be continued, and aspiration repeated if the joint fills again. If thick pus is withdi-awn, an opening should be made at once and the cavity drained. If the skin is reddened at one part, under which fluctuation is very distinct, the presence of pus is certain, and aspiration will be of little use. An abscess in a joint should be freely opened by one or two lateral incisions, extending fairly into the synovial cavity, so as to alford a free exit for the pus. The practice of making free incisions into a suppurating joint, as advocated by G-ay, was a great improvement on the former method of merely puncturing it. The small aperture that was formerly made without any antiseptic precautions adtnitted air, in consequence of which the pus became offensive and irritating, and, being unable to escape freely, gave rise not only to much local mischief, but to severe septic fever. By laymg the joint open freely, even when no special antiseptic treatment was adopted, much of this was prevented ; exit was given freely to the pus through one or two incisions extending the whole length of the articulation ; the septic poisoning from pent-up and putrid matter was prevented, and in many cases healthy granulations sprang up in the cavity and recovery took place with an ankylosed joint. The chances of this successful termination are very greatly increased by the adoption of some efficient method of antiseptic dressing. The irregular cavity of a joint is difficult to drain perfectly even with the freest incisions, and consequently it is of great importance that such fluid as remains behind should not be allowed to decompose By the combined use of antiseptic drainage and rest most excellent results are obtained, and excision of the joint or amputation of the limb is usually avoided. It is more especially in the knee, elbow, and hip, that this practice has yielded such good results. In some cases, even when the joint has been perfectly loose and grating, by perseverance in proper treatment a good and useful limb may be left. Should decomposition take