663 HARE-LIF. passes between the central and lateral incisors, in the line, which, according to Albrecht, marks the division between the two centres of ossification for each ' half of the premaxilla. Sometimes also the lateral incisor is absent or an additional tooth may exist on the outer side of the cleft. In exceedingly rare cases the fissure of the hare-lip has been seen extending upwards on one side of the nose towards the eye. Macrostoma or congenital transverse fissure ot the cheeks results from arrested union of the superior and inferior maxillary plates. . J . Single Hare-lip is by far the most common deformity (J^ig. 116). m it the mesial side of the gap is usually rounded ; the outer edge is flattened ; and the fr^num at the angle is long and subcutaneous The hare-hp may be incom- plete or complete, according as the Hp is merely notched or divided up into the nose. In the latter form the corresponding ala nasi is usually much flat- tened. When double (Figs. 714, 715), the fissure is often deeper on one side than on the other, and usually extends into the nostril, and is associated with cleft palate; though sometimes it stops short of this. In these cases the nose is usually flattened and expanded, and between the fissures there is always a central lobule, consisting of the intermaxillary bones in a rudimentary I condition ; to this a triangular labial nodule is commonly attached. In many cases this is tilted on its base, so that the alveolar Pig. 713.—Incomplete Single Hare-lip. Pig. 714.—Ordinary Double Hare-lip. Fig. 715.—Ordinary Doable Hare-lip. Side View. border projects forwards. Sometimes the projection is so considerable that it is attached to the tip of the nose. The fissure, when single, may be confined to the lip ; but in the majority of cases it extends to the alveolus of the upper jaw, giving rise to a deep notch between the lateral incisor and the canine tooth. When it is double, the four incisors, usually imperfectly and irregularly developed, are included in the central intermaxillary tubercle. Meckel and Nicati have described a rare form of hare-lip, in which the fissure corresponds to the line of junction between the central and lateral incisors. In many cases the fissure extends back into the palate ; this more frequently happens when the hare-lip is double, and in these cases every variety of palatal deformity is met with (Fig. 716). Median Hare-lip is so rare that there are very few authentic cases of it in the records of surgery. In a specimen dissected by Bland Sutton the pre- maxilla was absent, whilst in other cases the condition appears to have been due to want of union of the two globular processes. In Pitts's case the median cleft in the lip extended half way to the nose, and with the exception of a