35 NEUROMA. increased by movement. After lasting some time, even for weeks or months, the pains cease, and the muscles supplied by the nerve become paralysed, and after a time waste, and then electrical irritability becomes impaired. In the second variety the preliminary symptoms of neuritis are wanting, the paralysis appearing immediately after exposure to cold. This is com- monly observed in the facial nerve, or in the musculo-spiral and occa- sionally in other nerves. Duchenne collected over 100 cases of sudden paralysis of the latter nerve occurring after exposure to cold, usually from sleeping with the arms exposed to a draught. The symptoms of paralysis of the musculo-spiral have already been described (Vol. I., p. 593). Duchenne states that in paralysis from exposure to cold the whole of the parts supj)lied by the nerve in the forearm are paralysed, whereas in wrist-drop from lead- palsy the supinator longus escapes. In paralysis occurring in this sudden way from cold the electrical irritability of the muscle remains normal, the muscles supplied by the facial nerve alone forming au exception to this rule. This is explained by supposing that this nerve is exposed to more severe pressure when it swells in consequence of its course being through a long canal. It is important to distinguish these forms of paralysis from that arising from other causes—more particularly from the traumatic forms. This may usually be done by attending to the preliminary history of neuritis in the first form, in which there is also fi-equently a co-existent or antecedent rheumatic affection of the joints or muscles, and in the second form by the maintenance of the normal irritability of the muscles, remembering, however, that facial paralysis from cold forms an exception to the rule. The Treatment in the early stages is that of neuritis, free counter-irritation and rest, with the administration of saHcylate of soda if there are any general signs of rheumatism. When paralysis is clearly developed, faradization must be employed to prevent wasting of the muscles. By these means a cure is ahvays effected, although the recovery is often very slow. NEUEOMA. By Neuroma is meant clinically a tumour connected with a nerve. The common neuroma is a fibroma springing from the perineurium. (See, also Vol. I., p. 1028.) It IS composed of dense white fibrous tissue, and as a rule the fibres of the nerve are stretched over it or pass along one side, seldom oemg mvolved in the mass. This tumour may vary from the size of a millet-seed to that of an orano-e • It IS usually solid, but when it attains a large bulk, a cavity may form in it contammg a yellowisli or brownish serous-looking fluid, apparently owinj? to dismtegration of the central portions of the mass. In shape it is usually oval or oblong, the long axis corresponding to the course of the nerve (Fio- ^n) • It grows slowly, and is movable transversely, but not in the direction of the nerve-trunk on which it is seated when that is put upon the stretch by position ; it has no appearance of malignancy, and, however large it becomes lb never contracts adhesions to the integument nor involves its structure' xWoma commonly affects only the nerves of the cerebro-spinal system bub Berard met with one case of the disease on a ganglionic nerve The nerves of special sense are very rarely the seat of th.^ diseas iXd t D 2