740 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE however, as Jen.iei' has justly observed we save the mM™?X? T death as that fro,,, asphyxia/a„d even ■rC^^:}T^::ZTi^uf:'. occurs m a less distressing manner. un^imacciy mtal, death The necessity of the operation then being recognized it remains r-nn the indications for performing it. Trousselu strongiradtocaZ arH^ otomy before collapse of the lung had taken place t? Ly eltt oniUaH^' had become exhausted by the struggle for breath- Ld nn'i certain than that the opLtion is rtrelytccersf 'if;^^^^^^^^ It may be taken as a rule that when the voice is lost or near y lol and IS evident laryngeal obstruction gradually increasing, the sooLr tmhl IS performed the better. The degree'of obstruSioTis st nl^d^^^^^^^^^^ recession of the chest walls during inspiration. If the 1 ^ 'i f operation. Jenner pointed out that implication of the larynx in diphtheria rarely occurs after the end of the first week. P^ineua Even when performed early, tracheotomy for diphtheria frequently fails to save life. In the Hospital for Sick Children in Paris it appears that he operation was performed in 215 cases during a period of five years, and of these only 47 recovered. Unless we assume that the disease, as occurrincr in Pans is different from that we meet with here, it may fairly be doubted whether an operation which is in itself dangerous could have been necessary in many of these instances, and whether a large proportion of the children might not have recovered under ordinary medical treatment. The prospect of saving life after opening the windpipe in cases of diphtheria will greatly depend upon the age of the patient. Under two or even three years of age, recovery is extremely rare ; as age advances, the chance of life proportionately increases, and in adults the prospect of recovery is considerable. In many cases the patient will get great temporary benefit from the operation, and will appear to be doing well for several days, perhaps for eight, ten, or fourteen ; and then, to the great disappointment of the Surgeon, he will die, not from the effects of the operation, but from blood-poisoning or from extension of the disease to the bronchi and lungs. In other forms of laryngeal obstruction not dependent on membranous laryngitis, there can be no question as to the propriety of the operation. No patient ought ever to be allowed to die from simple laryngeal obstruction, whether it be spasmodic or dependent on organic disease, without an attempt being made to save life by opening the wandpipe. It is as unpermissible for a Surgeon to allow^ a patient to die of laryngeal asphyxia without an attempt at relief by opening the windpipe, even though lite appear to be extinct, as it would be to let him die of htemorrhage without attempting to control the bleeding vessel. Necessity for Promptitude.—When it lias been determined to open the windpipe for acute disease, more especially supervening on chronic laryngitis, the less delay there is in having recourse to operation, the better; as the patient may at any moment be seized with fatal laryngeal spasm. The opera- tion ought always to be completed, even though the patient have apparently