DISEASES OF VEINS. 58 a septic condition, and the plugged vein is exposed to the direct contact .1 putrid matter, the thrombus may become infected. It then softens and decomposes, and thus excites inflammation in the coats of the vein, spreading beyond the part originally injured. Fresh clot, which in its turn decomposes, forms in the vein as far as the inflammation extends ; and so the process may spread until some part is reached at which a large vein joins the affected trunk, when fragments of the softening clot are washed on, giving rise to the dissemination of septic emboli and pyaemia. It is this form of spreading phlebitis that was formerly so common in hospital practice. The eai'lier pathologists regarded the spreading inflammation of the vein as the primary cause of the mischief, whereas it is evident that it is really due to the changes taking place in the thrombus. Spreading phlebitis may arise also without an injury in the veins leading from many infective inflammations. Either the trunk may be involved in the inflamed area or thrombosis may extend into it from the smaller veins and venules. In either case the clot becomes impregnated with the infective material, and undergoes changes of the same character as those just described. In some cases of pyaemia or septicajraia, thrombosis may occur, as has already been pointed out, in parts distant from the seat of infection, and in these cases the clot softens and causes inflammation of the coats of the vessel. A possible explanation of this phenomenon is that the blood contains before coagu- lation some noxious material, which causes the subsequent softening and dis- integration. In support of this theory is the fact that micrococci are found abundantly in the debris of the broken down clot. Diffuse inflammation spreading from an unhealthy wound along the areolar tissue surrounding a vein may, in some cases, give rise to inflammation of its coats and thrombosis. In addition to the above forms of the disease, phlebitis is frequently met with without our being able definitely to explain its mode of origin, and it has therefore been said to be " idiopathic." This form almost invariably affects one of the large veins of the lower extremity, usually the saphena, but occa- sionally the popliteal, femoral, or iliac. Most commonly the vein attacked has long suffered from varix. It seems to be most frequent when erysipelas is epidemic, but the relation between the two affections is not proved. The inflammation extends to the surrounding areolar tissue, and may occasionally end in suppuration. The clot then disintegrates, the walls of the vein give way, and the debris mix with the surrounding pus ; but even when this happens, there is but little tendency to extension of the mischief, the disintegrating clot being shut off" on each side by an adherent unsoftened thrombus. When suppuration does not follow, the risk of disintegration and embolism is very slight, but it does sometimes occur and causes death. Paget has pointed out that " idiopathic " phlebitis commonly affecting the long saphenous, but occasionally the deeper veins, is not uncommon in gouty subjects. It may occur in different parts of the same vein at the same time, and is very liable to relapses. He has termed the affection " gouty phlebitis," and believes that it commences as a gouty mflammation of the coats of the vein. Pathological Anatomy.—The coats of an inflamed vem are swollen and rigid, and of a redder tint than natural from injection of the vessels of the