TUBERCULOUS HIP DISEASE: EXCISIOF. 435 clean out any foci of disease which may be present in the bone. Pollard has found it useful finally to examine the depths of the cavity with a strong hght thrown into it from a forehead mirror. All hsemorrhage must be arrested as thoroughly as possible. The whole cavity is now thoroughly treated with iodoform emulsion (Vol. L, p. 204), and plugged with one or more sponges. The sutures having been inserted, the limb is held in an abducted position, and the sponges removed ; the sutures are then tied. Barker does not as a rule use a drainage tube, but the introduction of a small tube for forty-eight hours as advised by Pollard does not materially delay the healing and prevents any risk of the wound becoming distended with blood. Firm elastic pressure should be secured by a wool dressing and spica bandage. The limb should be kept in a slightly abducted position on a double Thomas's ^ splint. In the majority of S\ cases primary union can be ob- tained under a single dressing. The objection which has been raised to the anterior opera- tion that the drainage of the wound is imperfect is thus not a serious one. External Incision.— Langenbeck recommends ex- cision by a straight incision over the great trochanter in the long axis of the limb ; it is about four and a half inches in length, and is so placed that the summit of the tro- chanter is at the junction of its middle and lower thirds. The incision having been car- ried down to the bone the joint is opened ; the muscles are detached from the great trochanter with the knife which cuts close on to the bone. Finally, tihe head is turned backwards out of the acetabulum, and the saw appHed either through the neck of the bone or below the trochanter. In some cases this operation may be performed subperiosteally. Posterior Incision.—In cases in which the situa- tion and extent of the sinuses leave the Surgeon situation of his incision, the plan recommended by to give excellent results. A semilunar incision is Fig. 574.—Adams's Saw. Fig. 573.—Barker's Flushing Curette. a free choice for the Sayre will be found made with its concavity forwards, commencing above the great trochanter midway between it and the crest of the ilium and carried downwards behind the bone. The first mcision must go directly down to the bone through the periosteum. The soft parts are then pulled forwards, and the periosteum F P 2