64 DISEASES OF VEINS. Treatment.—This must be conducted on two principles—to palliate find to cure. Tlic Palliative Treatment consists in moderate compression exer- cised upon the vessel, so as to support its weakened and dilated coats, and thus prevent its further distension and the pain occasioned by this, as well as the other consequences—such as oedema, induration and ulceration. The pressure must be applied very smoothly and evenly, lest it irritate the skin and cause ulceration, or produce distension of the vein below the part com- pressed. For the purpose of compression, bandages and elastic stockings are commonly employed. The soft "stocking bandage " is one of the most com- fortable. If an elastic stocking be used, care must be taken that it really fits evenly. They are often made too tight at the upper pai-t. Martin's india- rubber bandage applied in the same way as in the treatment of the chronic ulcer (Vol. I., p. 280) is a most efficient and. comfortable mode of treatment if the patient can wear it without its causing eczema. Elastic j^ressure by means of an india-rubber band around the limb, and the application of a truss to the upper part of the saphena vein as advised by Colles, are modes of treatment which aggravate rather than relieve the symptoms. If a vein burst, the haemorrhage is easily arrested by placing the patient on his back with the leg elevated and applying a compress and bandage. When a patient is in danger of haemorrhage, he should be advised to have the vein at once obliterated ; and if this cannot be done, it should be explained to him that if bleeding comes on he has nothing to fear, if he lies on his back and elevates his leg against some convenient object nearly to a right angle with his body, till assistance can be obtained. The apphcation of a finger to the bleeding spot would immediately arrest the haemorrhage. When death takes place, it is while the patient is foolishly running about to seek assistance. In certain circumstances, it becomes necessary to change the palliative for a Curative plan. This is especially requisite if the varix be so large as to cause much inconvenience, or to give rise to severe pain by its pressure on the nerves in its neighbourhood ; or if a varicose vein have burst, or be on the point of giving way. Whatever method of curative treatment is adopted a simple traumatic inflammation of the vein is caused, and, as the result of this, thrombosis occurs in the vein as far as the next branch on each side of the part obliterated. Finally, the thrombus is gradually replaced by connective tissue and thus the vein is reduced to a soHd fibrous cord. If septic inflammation occurs in the wound around the vein there is considerable risk that the localized traumatic phlebitis may. be converted into a spreading septic form. Softening of the clot is then a likely danger and may lead to pyaemia. By these means the trunk of a varicose vein and the larger masses of varix may be occluded. But can the disease be cured by the local obliteration of the vein ? This question I have no hesitation in answering in the negative. Though the trunk be obliterated, a collateral venous circulation is set up, which is very apt in the course of a few months to take on a varicose condition, and thus to cause a return of the disease. But, though the cure be not radical, much benefit may often be effected by removing varicose knots that occasion pain or inconvenience, or by occluding a vein from which hemorrhage has occurred or is threatening to occur. -, j i . i Various plans for obliterating the veins have been recommended, but by