ISCHIO-RECTAL ABSCESS. 9^9 which, as already stated, he looks upon as a torn down anal valve. ^^^11 com- pares this treatment with that by which a so-called " torment at the side ot the finger-nail is cured by shaving olf the little tag of skin. _ . -.x. Spasmodic Contraction of the Sphincter Ani is usually associated witn fissure or ulcer of the anus, or inflammatory irritation of some neighbouring organ ; but occasionally it occurs without this complication, and m all cases it may be connected with a neuralgic condition of the part. In hysterical women neuralgia and spasm are especially apt to occur ; though it is not improbable that, in many of the so-called cases of neuralgia of the anus, some positive disease, such as a small ulcer or fissure, may be detected on close examination, as I have several times been able to verify. The Treatment of contraction of the sphincter, whether associated with neuralgia or not, consists in the employment of local sedatives, especially the extract of belladonna, gr. j. to gr. ij., as a suppository ; the bowels being kept relieved by enemata and confection of senna. Should these means fail, the patient must be i auEesthetized, and the sphincter forcibly dilated with the fingers. Atony of the Rectum is common in middle age, in those who lead seden- tary lives, and especially in women. It is a consequence of habitual constipa- tion, and in its turn aggravates that condition, the walls of the rectum becoming expanded and pouch-like. It may occasion the retention and impaction of hardened faeces. A mass of clayey consistence, and as large as the fcetal head, forming in the rectum and interfering seriously with defeca- tion, becomes a source not only of great discomfort but of serious ill-health. Like all retained excreta it slowly poisons the system, giving rise to foul breath, dirty greyish complexion, and mental depression. The Treatment of atony of the rectum consists in scrupulous care in emptying the bowels by the administration of cold enemata. If impaction of faeces have occurred, this is to be remedied only by putting the patient under chloroform, forcibly dilating the sphincter with the hand, and breaking down the hardened mass with a lithotomy scoop or spoon, washing it away with enemata, and thus clearing out the bowel. ABSCESS AND FISTULA. Abscess not unfrequently occurs in the vicinity of the rectum and anus. It may either be superficial, being confined to the muco-cutaneous structures, and presenting the ordinary characters of acute subcutaneous abscess ; or it may be deeply seated, forming in the ischio-rectal fossa. It is these ischio-rectal abscesses that are of most practical importance. They are of two kinds— Acute aud Chronic. Acute Ischio-rectal Abscess forms deeply in the fossa, with throbbing, shooting, and stabbing pains through the anus, rectum, and perinseum ; on examination, a hard brawny substance may be felt in the areolar tissue by the side of the gut, either by examination from without, or by exploration through the rectum. It speedily softens, and will, unless an outlet be made for it, burst either externally, or into the cavity of the gut, or both ways. (See Vol. I., p. 1)58.) Chronic Ischio-rectal Absciess occurs insidiously in persons of a broken or strumous constitution. Without much pain or local inconvenience, a col- lection of pus forms, which is usually hmited to one side of the ischio-rectal fossa, but in other cases acquires considerable magnitude, extensively denuding the rectum and then spreading widely on the nates. This kind of purulen