624 mSIJASES OF THE GUMS AND ALVEOLAR PJWCESSKs. from the pcriodontol iTiembranc ; ifc sr.mcfciraes contains spicula of bone I f covered by a thin hiyer of mucous membrane. ^ The Treatment of fibrous epulis consists in the removal of the whole of th mass If It be very small and superficial the growth alone may b rtn and the surface rom which it springs scraped with a gouge. By this Z7m fc may occasionally be cured, but more commonly it manifests a great tendenc^ to reproduction. The portion of the alveolar border from which it spr n^l must then be removed as well. If it grows from the periodontal membiai ' can be removed by extracting the tooth. In all ordinary cases of epulis th removal may be effected from the inside of the mouth without the necessi^v of making any incisions through the cheek. In very large masses of epulis extending towards the ramus, it may be necessary either to carry an incision from the angle of the mouth downwards and outwards, or to dissect up the cheek from the bone, and thus expose the disease fully. In performing the operation, the first thing to be done is to extract a tooth on each side of the tumour ; a cut must then be made with a saw through the alveoli of the teeth that have been removed, down to a level with the base of the growth. In doing this care must be taken not to cut too near the remaining teeth lest the alveoli be opened and their support lost. If the tumour be large it'may be necessary to saw deeply ; but the base of the lower jaw should, whenever practicable, be left intact, the whole of the substance not being sawn through, so that, though a considerable portion of bone be removed, yet the length^'of the jaw may be preserved. For this purpose Hey's saw should not be used, as it is a niggling instrument, difficult to manage in this situation ; but a straight and stiff-backed saw, with as deep a blade as the mouth will conveniently admit, will be found most useful (Fig. 692). The epulis, included between two vertical cuts, may now, if small, be removed with cross- cutting forceps, and the bleeding stopped by placing a plug in the wound and cf)mpressing it against the teeth of the upper jaw by means of a bandage passed under the chin. If the epulis be large, a horizontal cut should be made along the bone about midway between the alveolus and the base, by means of Hey's saw ; and, after the bone has been penetrated to a sufficient depth, the blade of the cross-cutting forceps may be fixed in this cut, and the diseased part then removed. Should the dental artery spout it should be touched with the fine point of Paquelin's cautery. The cut surface will speedily granulate ; and the cavity fills up with fibrous tissue. The operation for the removal of epulis is a very safe one. Of 28 cases collected by Hutchinson from different London hospitals, only one was fatal, from pyaemia. Myeloid Sarcoma of the Alveolar Border forms a soft purplish, very vascular tumour, growing rapidly and speedily recurring after removal, unless the incisions are carried widely beyond the growth. It is sometimes spoken of as " myeloid epulis." It occurs principally, so far as my observation goes, in males advanced in life. These tumours require the same operation as the fibrous epulis ; and, as much haemorrhage usually follows their removal, a cautery must be applied to the bleeding surface. If the tumour be very large, it may be necessary to remove a portion of the whole thickness of the bone, through an external incision, as will be described in the section on Excision of the Lower Jaw (p. 646). Epithelioma of the Gum is not uncommon. It presents the ordinary