PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE LIPS. 662 then pushing long steel-pointed silver needles across from cheek to cheek, and twisting their ends over perforated pieces of sole-leather, through whieh'they had previously been passed, thus bringing the whole organ bodily forwards. The columna is next fashioned in the way which has already been described • and the nose is completed. PLASTIC BUEGERY OF THE LIPS. Hare-Lip.—By hare-lip is meant a congenital perpendicular fissure or fissures through the upper lip, the result of an arrest of development. Witliout going into the details of the development of the face, the mode of origin of hare-lip, cleft palate, and congenital transverse fissure of the cheeks, or macro- stoma, may be made clear by recalling the main features of the process. The prominent part of the nose and part of the septum nasi are developed from a central process, the fronto-nasal plate, descending from the front of the cranium between the ocular vesicles. On either side of this the olfactory area appears as a depression in the epiblast, bounded by prominent lips, the mesial and lateral nasal processes. The former, which are united with the fronto-nasal process, end below in the globular processes of His, which coalesce in the middle line to form the intermaxillary bone with the incisor teeth, the central part of the upper lip, the columna nasi and the lower part of the septum. The lateral nasal processes form the alae nasi. The remainder of the face above the line of the lower jaw is developed from a lateral process on each side—the superior maxillary plate—which gradually grows forwards till it coalesces with the nasal processes. From the superior maxillary plates are developed the cheeks and the whole of the upper jaws, except the central inter- maxillary bone, which, as already stated, is formed separately. The lower jaw, and the soft parts covering it, are formed from similar processes, the in- ferior maxillary plates advancing from each side and coalescing in the middle line". The superior and inferior maxillary plates coalesce at each side, leaving the open space of the mouth in the middle line. The hues in which these various processes unite are roughly indicated in the diagram on p. 355, Vol. 1. The mode of origin of the various deformities of the face is therefore evident. If one maxillary plate fails to unite with the globular process in front, a cleft will be left through the upper lip on one side of the middle line, forming a single hare-lip. If both plates fail to unite with the globular processes a double hare-lip results, and the intermaxillary bone may be left adherent to the tip of the nose and septum nasi. If at the same time the development of the globular processes is arrested, we get the rare condition of a wide gap in the middle line with absence of the incisor portion of the superior maxilla, whilst still more rarely a median hare-lip may result fi-om failure of the globular processes of the opposite sides to unite in the middle line. If the anterior parts unite while development is arrested posteriorly, cleft palate results, the fissure being single, and in the middle line as far as the posterior part of the premaxillary bone. If the arrest of development is more complete, the fissure may extend to the lip, deviating in front from the middle line as it passes between the main part of the superior maxillary and premaxillary bone. If both sides fail to unite completely the fissure is single behind and double in front, passing on each side of the intermaxillary bone. In some instances the cleft, instead of running forwards between the lateral incisor and canme teetii,