DISEASES OF THE JSLADDER. used, and then greased with -Lund's oil." composed of absolute phenol, 1 part castor oiU parts, and olive oil, 15 parts ; or with the following, which ha^ the advantage of not crystallizing in winter : absohite phenol, 1 part ; ciistor on, / paits ; and almond oil, 8 parts. The penis should also be washed with boric acid or carbolic acid lotion after micturition and covered with lint soaked in glycerine of carbolic acid or a piece of salicylic wool. If the urine has once become foul it becomes necessary to adopt local means to correct it. No ^^ood can be expected from medicines so loug as the bladder is full of putrid mucus'and urine, i he bladder must therefore be washed out with some antiseptic solution once, or, if necessary, twice daily. This is done as follows : a soft catheter is passed and the urine drawn off ; about two ounces of fluid arc then tlirown in from an india-rubber bottle fitted with a brass nozzle and stop-cock. The fluid is then allowed to run out again, and this is repeated till that which comes back IS quite clean. Nothing is gained by injecting larger quantities, which only cause needless pain and irritation. There is another method of washing out the bladder which will often be found useful. It consists in attaching an india-rubber tube, about three feet long, to the catheter. At the other end of the tube is a glass funnel. By raising the funnel about two feet above the patient's body and pouring the fluid into it, sufficient force will be obtained to lill the bladder. When sufficient fluid has entered, the funnel may be allowed to hang over the side of the bed over a vessel, when the fluid will be withdrawn from the bladder, the tube acting as a siphon. Amongst the most useful of all antiseptic injections is permanganate of potash ; the solution may be injected repeatedly till it comes back purple. Its effect is, however, very temporary, and it is well after the bladder has been cleaned by Condy's fluid and water to throw in a small quantity of some more powerful antiseptic. Perhaps the best of these is quinine, in the strength of two to three grains to the ounce of water, with a minim of dilute sulphuric acid added for each grain ; of this about one drachm may be left in after the catheter is withdrawn. Other antiseptics are also useful, as boric acid (a concentrated solution); perchloride of mercury (gr. ^ to sj.) ; a concentrated solution of thymol ; dilute nitric acid (m. ij, to ^j.), &c. One of the most efficient of all antiseptics I have found to be iodoform, in the proportion of from two to four grains to the ounce of water, with a little mucilage to suspend it. Various drugs may be administered internally with the object of arresting the decomposition of the urine. The best known of these is benzoic acid, • ^ which is discharged with the urine in the form of hippuric acid ; it may be ^ given in ten-grain doses three or four times a day, either in a pill or in a mixture containing mucilage to suspend it. ' Betol, the salicylate of /3 naphthol ether, may be given in three to eight- grain doses in cachets or pills. Saccharin in one-grain doses has also been Ibund useful, if the urine is foul. Salol is somewhat extensively used, although Mansel Sympson has pointed out that the drug is dangerous if there is advanced kidney disease ; five grains may be given three times a day or oftener, either in pills or suspended with mucilage. Boric acid is sometimes useful; ten grains should be given three times a day. When by these means the urine has been brought into a tolerably healthy condition, so far as putrefaction is concerned, there still may continue a considerable excess of mucus which renders it prone to decompose, and unless constant care is exercised the patient may speedily relapse. To check this