DISEASE OF BURSA PATELL.E. times it will point, and the pus discharge itself externally in the usual manner ; but verj generally it gives Avay subcutaneously, invariably to^ the outer side of the sac, and its contents speedily diffuse themselves widely around the joint beneath the fascia lata. The history of the case affords the means of diagnosis. In suppuration of the bursa patellae, the abscess commences by a superficial swelling and inflam- mation in front of the knee, which, after a time, extends laterally, enveloping the joint, the fluid gravitating on each side, but more especially externally, nearly as far, perhaps, as the ham-strings. There will have been none of the signs indicative of acute arthritis, no startings of the limb, no laxity or pain in moving the articulation, no grating of the articular ends ; and little con- stitutional disturbance. The movements of flexion and extension of the joint are fi-ee up to a certain point, where they are checked by the mechanical obstacleof the purulent accumulation. But the most important diagnostic sign is the relation of the abscess to the patella. In a suppurating bursa, the patella is invisible, being covered by the fluctuating swelling ; in effusion, whether serous or purulent, into the joint, the patella is above, floating upon the fluid. In the Treatment of this condition the pus must be let out by a free incision, if possible before the abscess has extended beyond the limits of the bursa. The incision is usually made in the middle line, but better drainage is obtained, and the scar over the patella avoided if the incision be made at the outer side. To do this, a very small puncture may be made in front, and a probe intro- duced, the point of which may be made to project at the outer limit of the cavity. The probe may then be cut down upon, the cavity well flushed out with 1 in ] 000 solution of perchloride of mercury, and a drainage-tube intro- duced, the anterior puncture being allowed to close. If the abscess be of considerable size, an incision must be made on each side, care being taken not to cut so deeply as to injure the capsule of the joint. If antiseptic precautions are taken, it is necessary only to make an opening of sufficient size to admit a drainage-tube, but under other circumstances, the incision must be much more free. The burrowing beneath the fascia lata that not unfrequently follows abscess of the bursa patellse, is due first, to not opening early enough ; secondly, to insuificient drainage ; and thirdly, to decomposition of the discharges, and cannot be regarded as an unavoidable accident. Disease of the Patella.—Sometimes, but very rarely, abscess of the bursa patellae will give rise to caries of the patella, but so far as my experience goes this is exceedingly rare. I had one case under my care in the Hospital. The patient was a woman, and when admitted, she had several sinuses on the fore part of the knee-joint, through which the probe led down to a rough and carious patella. It was ascertained that she had had "housemaid's knee," which had run on to suppuration, but that the abscess had never been freely laid open. The joint itself was unaffected. I laid open the sinuses, and, finding the anterior surface of the patella soft and carious, removed the diseased part of the bone with the gouge. About three weeks after this, the joint became suddenly swollen, and evidently filled with pus, so that it was necessary to remove the limb above the knee. After amputation, it was found that the disease had perforated the patellar cartilage, by a small aperture, and had thus given rise to suppuration within the joint. Sloughing of the Bursa Patellaa occasionally occurs as the result of its inflammation and suppuration. A woman was admitted into the Hospital, in