956 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM ANU ANUS and are mLd with Wood ul m, T.r, ' i'^, ^Tf"^ 1'^'". Treatment.-The patient must be put under the usual constitutional treatment for syphilis. If ulceration is still present the best treatment consists in passing bougies of cocoa-nut butter, each containing about four to five grains of iodoform, into the rectum once a day. Jf this do not succeed, similar bougies, containing a small quantity of bichloride of mercury, not ex- ceeding 1^ of a grain, may be used instead. Iq many cases nothing succeeds so long as the diseased surface is irritated by the passage of faces, and then colotomy must be performed as the only means of giving relief. Should the ulcers heal without necessitating colotomy, the cicatricial con- traction resulting from them may be treated in the same way as a simple stricture. The extent of the disease usually, however, makes this form of stric- ture extremely intractable. Carcinoma of the Rectum — Malignant Stricture.—The form of cancer met with in the rectum is almost invariably the Columnar Carci- noma. Its structure has been fully described in the Chapter on Tumours (Vol. I., p. 1074). In the rectum it varies somewhat in structure in different cases. In some the epithelial structure is very abundant, the growth being composed of a closely- packed mass of tubes resembling enlarged crypts of Lieberkiihn, between which lie the vessels, sup- ported by a delicate connective tissue closely infiltrated with small round cells. In others the glandular element is much less developed, the fibrous stroma being more fully developed, and showing in some cases a tendency to contract like that of a scirrhus. All degrees may be met with between these two extremes. The clinical features vary with the structure. The softer varieties grow more rapidly, implicate surrounding structures more widely, and tend to infect the lymphatic glands and internal organs, but lead to a less complete stricture of the gut. The firmer varieties grow slowly, and often ■ exist a long time without giving rise to secondary growths, while from their tendency to contract they cause great narrowing of the gut. The softer forms usually appear us flat cauliflower growths springing from the inner surface of the gut, and tending in most cases to spread circularly round it. They are usually extremely painful, and bleed readily when examined. They slough early, and cause extensive destruction of the bowel. The firmer varieties form hard, Fig. S20.—Syphilitic Ulceration and Stricture of Rectum, a. Edge of ulcer; 6. opening of fistula.