ANKYLOSIS OF THE JAW. 649 or cat. Should the artery be divided, it must be ligatured, or if it be cut veiy close to the main trunk it may be necessary to tie that immediately below the point at which it divides into the temporal and internal maxillary. In de- pressing the bone to reach the temporal muscle and the joint, care^ must be taken not to use too much force, lest the ramus give way, having been weakened by the disease. This accident causes a good deal of dii^ioulty in disarticulation, which can be accomplished only by seizing the fragment left behind in necrosis-forceps, dragging it forwards and then dividing the muscle and capsule. When the operation is completed the raw surface should be sponged Avith a solution of chloride of zinc and sprinkled with iodoform. The flap is then brought down and secured with sutures, a drainage-tube being inserted in the most dependent angle of the wound. If the symphysis have been removed the root of the tongue must be stitched forwards and the ligature through its tip must be retained for a few days till all danger of its falling backwards into the pharynx is past, so that it may be drawn forward if necessity arises. When cicatrization is complete a dense mass of fibrous tissue is formed in the place of the jaw, and comparatively little deformity results. Diseases of the Temporo-Maxillary Articulation.—The articulation of the jaw, though less frequently diseased than most other joints, is liable to the same aflections as similar parts elsewhere. Chronic Rheumatic Arthri- tis of the temporo-maxillary articulation has already been described (p. 649). Acute Arthritis, terminating in destruction of the joint and fibrous or osseous ankylosis, most commonly occurs in consequence of disease of the middle ear in scarlet fever. According to A. E. Barker, who has specially called attention to this form of disease, it is met with almost exclusively in children, and is due to the persistence of a hiatus in that part of the tympanic plate forming the floor of the meatus and the roof of the articulation. This hiatus is always present in infancy, and may remain in adult life. The disease may result also from necrosis of .the bone in chronic suppurative inflammation of the middle ear after fevers. The symptoms are those met with in other joints—acute pain, redness, swelling, and the formation of abscesses discharg- ing either on the cheek or by the ear. The treatment consists in rest and opening the abscesses. Ankylosis of the Jaw may be fibrous or osseous. It necessarily, even if affecting one side only, prevents mastication. If fibrous, it may be treated by forcibly opening the mouth under chloroform by means of a screw-gag, or of an apparatus specially constructed for the purpose, after which a wedge may be placed between the teeth to keep them apart. This treatment is painful, and has to be repeated at intervals for some time, lest the articulation again become stiffened. It is not usually very satisfactory. Span ton has succeeded in producing a better result by dividing the fibrous bands in the articulation by means of a tenotome passed into it. In firm fibrous ankylosis in which other means have failed, or in osseous ankylosis, the only treatment likely to be followed by good results is excision of the condyle of the jaw. This is best done by an incision carried along the lower border of the zygoma from immediately in fronc of the ear, avoiding the temporal artery, to the malar bone. From the middle of this a short vertical incision may be carried down- wards, for about three-quarters of an inch, dividing the skin and fat only. The masseter is then separated from the zygomatic arch, as far as it is exposed, by the scalpel and periosteal elevator. The neck of the bone is thus fully ex-