DISEASES OF THE EAR. astringent applications may be used to hasten its cessation. The removal of the purulent secretion is eHected chiefly by freouent svrin..int nf m ^' w. h some antiseptic solution, and by blowing. tluLu"h h Sylit1 Pohtzer's apparatus, the catheter, or simple Ibrced expiration TlJ « • ^ must not be nsed forcibly, especially if the opening in ^rmbrli^e i Hm on recommended that an india-rubber ball syringe w th rnlnnl fv^ nozzle con.pletely hlling the external meatus should be used, byTa 's'^ should t do '"""^.^^rt fl"- the ear into the phaiynT Thl should be done with steady gentle pressure. If too much fLe be usedTt fluid that enters the pharynx may pass out at the nose. Decomposition ig prevented by the use of antiseptic solutions, the best being chloride of "inc p- J to_ 3j) or a concentrated solution of boric acid. After the ear ha» been syringed the meatus should be carefully dried with cotton-wool In many cases great benefit is obtained from blowing into it a small quantity of iodoform. When the opening in the membrana tympani is of sufficient si2« the cavity of the tympanum may be cleaned out bv means of a fine probe with some cotton-wool wrapped round. Under this treatment the discharge in most cases gradually ceases, and unless it be too large, the opening in the membrane heals. In cases in which there is msufficient exit for the discharge it may be necessary to enlarge the opening m the tympanic membrane to allow of more perfect cleaning of the cavity, whilst if prominent granulations are present these may be touched with a probe coated with nitrate of silver, or with a small wool mop moistened with the strong solution of perchloride of iron. Complications of Chronic Suppuration in the Middle Ear.—Chronic suppuration in the middle ear derives its chief surgical interest from the serious nature of the complications which are liable to occur, among which may be mentioned mastoid abscess, suppuration between the dura mater and the bone, meningitis, abscess of the brain, septic phlebitis of the lateral sinus, and pyasmia. Mastoid Abscess results from the direct extension of the suppuration from the cavity of the tympanum into the mastoid antrum and cells. Here the discharges accumulate and decompose, and finding an imperfect escape on account of the irregularity of the cavities, the pus gradually perforates the bone and appears beneath the skin. The mastoid antrum may be regarded as the most anterior of the mastoid cells, communicating in front with the cavity of the tympanum and behind with the other cells. It may correctly be regarded as a recess of the tympanum and differs from the other cells in being present at birth, and thus it serves as the sole starting-point of mastoid abscess in children. The collection of pus is but imperfectly drained by the opening into the tympanum, for as Macewen points out, this is above the level of the floor of the antrum. The symptoms of mastoid abscess are fever with occasionally rigors, pain behind the ear and radiating over the side of the head, and not rarely vomiting. The discharge from the meatus often ceases or is diminished in amount ; local tenderness, often with oedema and redness, is present over the mastoid process, and there may be enlargement of the mastoid lymphatic gland and of those lying below the ear. In some cases the severity of the symptoms suggests more serious intra- cranial complications, and the diagnosis is often obscured by the absence of