COMPARISON OF INGUINAL AND LUMBAR OPERATIONS. 923 which it enters on the other side. A similar thread is then passed in the same way, inchiding the posterior part of the gut exposed. Care must be taken not to puncture the peritoneum with the anterior thread. An incision is then made into the gut between the two sutures, the finger introduced, the loops pulled out and divided and tied. Thus the gut is rapidly secured by four sutures immediately after being opened, and the faecal matter is prevented from running into the wound. More sutures may be put in afterwards, if necessary. Before the bowel is opened, the wound should be thoroughly sponged with chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to gj) and well dusted with iodoform, and the posterior part over which the fsecal matter will flow may be smeared with iodo-vaseline ointment or carbolic oil. The gut should be brought as far back in the wound as can conveniently be done. After the operation the anterior part of the wound may be closed with sutures, but the posterior should be left partly open, and, if necessary, a drainage-tube introduced to prevent any burrowing of pus in the loose subperitoneal areolar tissue. A pad of carded oakum, or some other absorbent material, is then applied and changed frequently. A piece of lint soaked in carbolic oil (1 in 10) may be applied next the skin, a hole being cut through it opposite the gut. Wound of the Peritoneum is the most serious accident during the operation, as it may be followed by peritonitis, but it is by no means necessarily so. It may occur in three stages of the operation :—1, while dividing the fascia lumborum, from too free use of the knife ; 2, the posterior reflection may be torn with the finger by using it as a hook to drag the gut up into the wound ; 3, it may be punctured by the needles, or wounded by the knife in opening the gut. In rare cases free gas is met with in the peritoneal cavity, and this may lead to the peritoneum being mistaken for the gut. In some cases a complete meso-colon is met with, so that it is impossible to open the gut without wounding the serous membrane. In fat subjects the depth of the wound increases the difficulty of the operation, in some cases necessitating a crucial incision to give more space. Different Surgeons have variously modified the operation by making the incision vertical or semilunar instead of transverse, but the method above described is that usually preferred. The patient will derive much comfort after the operation from taking powdered charcoal. It not only deodorizes, but also tends to harden, the faeces. When recovery has taken place, the aperture in the lumbar region may be kept supported and closed by means of a truss with a large pad. After recovery two complications are not uncommonly met with—contraction of the artificial anus and prolapse of the gut. The first is best prevented by drawing the gut well up in the wound at the time of the operation. If there is a tendency to contraction it may be prevented by introducing a conical vulcanite plug, which must be constantly worn. Prolapsus is best prevented by a properly constructed pad, secured by an elastic belt. The causes of death after colotoray are usually exhaustion, septica3mia, peri- tonitis from wound of the membrane, and occasionally secondary peritonitis from burrowing of pus in the subperitoneal fat towards the iliac fossa. Cololomy on the right side is done in the same way as on the left and presents no difference requiring notice. Comparison of the Inguinal and Lumbar Operations.—Although there has been a strong wave of opinion in favour of inguinal colotomy during recent years, the relative advantages of the two methods are pretty evenly balanced