r "40 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. dischar5.e from the urethra ; fine threads of mucus the rh r»«ll^ri threadsr may often be seen floatiuf. in the ur nresneda^^ v n fh fi r'^"^ and in last few drops expel.ed I, straining; ^:^t:^ Ihe discharge of ghury mucus from the urethra after micturkionl,: def^catiou may be so niarked as to constitute a true ^prosMorrha^' Zl and fZ thT 1I' "^'"''^ confounded with spermaton-ht and from the depressing effect consequently produced upon the patieS mind. Frequency of micturition and some pain during and afL he act nl' be present Constipation is almost invariable. Examination by he c^u^ shows that the pi^state is slightly tender, hard, and enlarged, sometimes mo^ on one side than the other. A chronic abscess may slowly fom withou gre t increase m the intensity of the symptoms. This complication, whicl i fortunately rare, is recognized by examination from the rectum Should Z abscess burst into the urethra, the cavity in the indurated gland tissue may be very slow in healing. I have known a case in Avhich, after many years the prostate remained hard and enlarged, and on pressing firmly on it from the rectum, pus could be made to flow from the urethra. The patient was obliged to draw ofi" his water with a catheter, but sufiPered very little in his general health. J•3^1^^^^"'°^^^ ^^^^ condition from tuberculous disease is often extremely difficult. Its extremely chronic nature, the absence of any disease of the testicles or vesicul^ seminales, the more uniform enlargement of the gland and the history of the case will usually determine its nature. The distinction between prostatorrhoea and spermatorrhoea may be made by microscopic ♦examination of the discharges. The Treatment consists in attention to the general health. Tonics, especially iron and nux vomica, and aperients are usually required. Moderate exercise, change of air, and sea-bathing may be of use. Locally, the application of cold has proved most useful. The cold sitz bath or perineal douche may be prescribed once or twice a day. Berkeley Hill advised that the bath should be commenced at a temperature of 50° F. and gradually prolonged and lowered in temperature until ten minutes at 35° F. is reached. Small rectal injections of cold water may also be used. A belladonna suppository sometimes relieves the uncomfortable sensations. Blistering the perinaeum is a recognized method of treatment, but often fails. In obstinate cases in which simpler means have failed injections of nitrate of silver may be made into the prostatic urethra. Berkeley Hill, who regarded this treat- r - ment highly, advised that the injection should be made with a Gruyon's catheter • and syringe, the strength of the solution at the first application being not more than 5 or 10 grains to the ouuce and the amount not more than 10 to 20 minims. Ten minims of a 10 per cent, solution of cocaine should be previously injected, and ten minutes after the silver solution has been used the patient is directed to pass his water. If severe pain follows, it may be relieved by a hot hip-bath and belladonna suppositories. Three or four injections are usually required at intervals of one or two weeks, the strength of the solution being increased to 20 or even 50 grains to the ouuce. The subsequent passage of a large steel sound may be useful. In the rare cases in which suppuration occurs, the abscess must be opened in the peringeum. A deep-seated and very Chronic Abscess sometimes forms in the