SPECIAL AISEUJilSMS. ^'1 °^^^"«^i"^PO^-tance that cannot be ignored in considering the opuat on of hgature ot tlie carotid and subclavian arteries is the undoubtedly very slow progress and prolonged duration of many of these aneurisms, and the possibility of a spontaneous cure in some. Patients with aortic aneurisms frequently live for several years after the disease has been recognized. Under proper constitutional treatment the severity of the symptoms may be greatly mit.ga ed, and in all probability the chances of cure would be about equal under the two modes of treatment-the strictly surgical and the medical- whils speedy or sudden death would be more likely to occur to those sub- jected to the operation. Attempts to obtain consolidation of the tumour by the introduction of coils of iron wire catgut, or horsehaii-, have not as yet been attended with any marked benefit to the patient (see p. 1.50). The mode of treatment which has been more frequently adopted than any other IS galvano-puncture ; and it seems probable that in well-selected cases this may be productive of good, or may even occasionally lead to a cure. In 27 cases of aortic aneurism thus treated, which have been collected by John Duncan, 5 were cured, 10 relieved, 9 unrelieved, and 3 died. Experience has shown that with well insulated needles and a suitable battery there is scarcely any danger to life, and that the operation, even when it does no good, does no harm. It has been applied in all stages of the disease, from the time, when the tumour becomes sufficiently superficial to allow the safe introduction' of the needles, to the time when it has perforated the chest-wall, and is on the, point of bursting. In one of Duncan's cases, the life of the patient wal undoubtedly prolonged for nearly three months after the time at which, if left to itself, the aneurism would have burst externally. The cases best suited for galvano-puncture, and in which even a cure may occasionally be hoped for/ are those in which the tumour is of slow growth, has not yet perforated the chest-wall, and in which it can be diagnosed as sacculated and communicatmg with the aorta by a comparatively small opening. It is important also that the patient's health should not be too much broken by suffering or visceral disease. When the tumour projects through the parietes of the thorax! forming a secondary sac outside, the prospect of cure is infinitesimally small ;j but even then, progress may be delayed, and much relief given to the patient.] If the tumour have become diffused, as may occur when it points in the back,! galvano-puncture can only do harm by increasing the tendency to inflam- : mation and suppuration already existing. For the details of the operation, see page 147. i There is one point in the treatment of some forms of aortic aneurism,i that falls more within the province of the Surgeon, and on which his opinion may be sought. I mean the advisability of opening the windpipe, to reheve the patient from the distress occasioned by the laryngeal spasm or paralysis that commonly attends many of these cases. The decision of this question is always an anxious one ; for it must be borne in mind that, as the disease which occasions the spasm of the larynx is inevitably fatal, 1 the operation can be expected to give only temporary relief. In determining this question, the Surgeon must bear in mind that simple laryngeal spasm is rarely, if ever, the direct cause of death in aortic aneurism ; that, although the patient may suffer greatly from this complication, he does MM