xiii CONTENTS. PAdE Uvula—Tonsillitis or Quinsy—Treatment—Chronic Enlargement of the. Tonsijs —Treatment—Excision of Tonsils—Malignant Tumours .... 7U2—708 Pharynx—Catarrhal Pharyngitis—Follicular or Granular Pharyngitis—Adenoid \''egetations — Erj'sipelatous Pharyngitis— Phlegmonous Pharyngitis— Acute Eetropharyngeal Abscess—Treatment—Syphilitic Affections—Tumours . 708—712 OESOPHAGUS — Congenital Malformations — Inflammatory Aifections — Varices — Ulceration — Diverticula — Simple Tumours—Sarcoma—Carcinoma—Stricture and Dysphagia—Conditions .producing Dysphagia without Stricture—Diagnosis of Stricture—Hysterical or Spasmodic—Organic—Diagnosis of Organic Stricture —Treatment-—Gastrostomy—(Esophagostomy—(Esophagectomy . . 712—723 Larynx—The Laryngoscope—Laryngitis—Varieties—Acute Catarrhal Laryngitis— Symptoms—Treatment—Acute QSdematous Laryngitis—Diagnosis—Treatment— Chronic Laryngitis—Varieties—Simple Chronic—Treatment—Local Medication of Larynx—Syphilitic Laryngitis—Diagnosis—Treatment—Tuberculous Laryn- gitis—Diagnosis—Treatment—Complications of Chronic Laryngitis—Nervous Affections of Larynx—In Children—In Adults—Paralysis of Larynx—^Tumours of Larynx—Treatment—Thyrotomy—Malignant Tumours of Larynx—Com- plete Excision of Larynx—Operation—Partial Excision of Larynx—Kesults— Polypus of the Trachea ........... 723 738 Chapter LVIII.—Operations on the Air-Tube and on the Chest. Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy—Conditions requiring Operation—Opening the Windpipe in Membranous Laryngitis—In other Forms of Laryngeal Obstruction —Necessity for Promptitude—Operations—Conditions requiring Operation— Laryngotomy—Tracheotomy—Difficulties and Accidents—Exposing the Trachea -Hasmorrhage—Opening the Trachea—Introduction of Tube—Trachea-Tubes— Tracheotomy in Children—Comparison of Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy— After-treatment of Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy—Difficulty in Establishing Natural Respiration after Tracheotomy—Intubation of the Larynx . . 739 755 Surgical Operations on the Chest—Tapping the Pleural Cavity—Surgical Treatment of Empyema—Best Point for Opening—Method of Operating—The Tube—Dressing and After-Treatment—Removal of Tube—Results—Estlander's Operation—Pneumothorax 755—761 Tapping Pulmonary Cavities—Operation—Hydatids of the Lung—Tapping the Pericardium—Drainage of the Pericardium 761_764 Chapter LIX.—Diseases of the Breast. Diseases op the Breast—Ages at which they occur .... 765 Anomalies op Development—Absence of Breasi^Supernumerary Breasts "and Nipples 765_76g Neuralgia-Symptoms—Treatment * . ' . " ' 766—767 HYPERTROPHY-True-Causation~Symptoms-Diagnosis—Prognosis-Treatment 737 7gci ABNORMALITIES OF SECRETION-Agalactia-Excessive Secretion-Galactocele 768-770 Acute Inflammation op the BREAST-Of Nipple and Areola-Treatment- Abscess of Areola-True Eczema of Nipple-Puerperal Mastitis-Mastitis Neona- torum—Mastitis of Puberty—Non-puerperal Mastitis of Adults—Acute Sub- mammary Abscess—Treatment . . . 770—774 Chronic Inflammation op the BREAST-Chronic Lobular'interstitial Mastitis- rathological Appearances-Symptoms-Diagnosis-Treatment-Calcification-