994 SECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. itself vary considerably. They may be divided as follows: 1. Changes rcBulfc. ing from pressure by obstruction to the entrance of urine into the bladder 2. Acute interstitial inflammation ; 3. Acute interstitial inflammation with scattered abscesses • 4. The results of former acute or subacute attacks from which the patient has recovered. 1. The Results of Pressure—A case once occurred at University College Hospital, which aflorded an opportunity of examining the uncomplicated effects of pressure with great advantage. The ureters had bee.i pressed upon by two enormous sacculi, which projected from the bladder immediately behiiid the trigone. The bladder was much dilated and hypertrophied, but the cause of this was uncertain. There were no signs of old or recent cystitis, and no instrument had been passed during life. In this case both ureters were greatly, dilated, and the pelvis on each side was expanded so as to contain many oun( of fluid. The kidneys were somewhat increased in size, and before beii opened felt like great thick-walled bags of fluid giving all over a distinct sen, of fluctuation. On being cut open, each presented the following appearance* The capsule was tough and opaque, and separated with difficulty from th kidney substance, slightly tearing it in so doing, and leaving the surface coars^ and irregular. The surface was uniformly pale, and whitish in colour. No trace of the pyramids was to be seen, but where each should have been was a deep hollow lined with a smooth membrane continuous with that lining the peh'is of the kidney. The cortex was of about normal thickness, but in some parts thinner than natural; it was somewhat tough in consistence, and pre- sented a uniform opaque whitish tint. The whole kidney was thus converted into a great sacculated bag, composed on one side of the dilated and thickened pelvis, and on the other of the expanded cortex. There were no signs of past or present acute inflammation. On microscopic examination of a section of the cortex, the chief change noticeable was an abundant small round-celled infiltration of the intertubular tissue of the kidney. Every tubule was separated from its neighbours by rapidly growing young connective tissue, crowded with small round cells, and this, by pressing on the vessels, had given rise to the pale colour above noted. The new growth was most abundant round the Malpighian bodies, the capsules of which were greatly thickened; so much so, that in many the vessels had been strangled and obliterated. The amount of change was not uniform, the new growth being more abundant in some parts than in others. The tubules themselves showed no great signs of change. They were slightly dilated in some parts, and the epithelium looked as if flattened by pressure, but in other respects it was perfectly healthy. This case . shows that uncomplicated tension from partial obstruction of the ureter gives rise to a gradual absorption of the pyramids, and to a condition of interstitial inflammation of the kidney, probably varying in severity with the degree and acuteness of the obstruction. In more extreme cases than that above de- scribed, the atrophy of the cortex becomes much more advanced, till nothing may be left but a layer of kidney substance no thicker than a shilling. It is interesting to note, that in the case above described the secretion of urine was abundant, its specific gravity was 1009, and it was free from albumen and casts. It is also evident that, if such a kidney as this were exposed to any additional source of irritation, more acute inflammation incompatible with life would readily be set up. 2. Acute Biifuse Interstitial Inflammation.—In this condition the