57 PHLEBITIS. o-cneral infection known as embolic pyeemia. The pathological effects of simple and infective embolism have already been described (see Pysemia, Vol. I., p. 981). A softening thrombus does not necessarily give rise to embolism. In the common form of so-called idiopathic phlebitis, suppuration not unfrequently takes place round the thrombosed vein, the middle part of the thrombus is softened, the walls of the vein give way, and the debris of the clot are dis- charged with the pus of the abscess. In these cases a portion of the thrombus on each side remains unsoftened, and undergoes the ordinary changes observed in the closure of a divided vessel. The Symptoms of thrombosis are merely those of obstruction of the vein. If superficial, the vein can be felt as a hard cord, with knot-like projections at the situations of the valves. If a deep vein is affected, there is oedema of the part from which it comes, often with dilatation of the superficial veins. The swollen parts are white, and pit deeply on pressure. When the coats of the vein are inflamed, the symptoms of phlebitis presently to be described will be manifest. The Treatment of venous thrombosis depends entirely on the cause. When it is a part of the pyasmic process, no special treatment is of much service ; when associated with phlebitis, it must be treated as described under that disease. CEdema must be treated by elevation of the limb and careful bandaging with an elastic or stocking bandage. In all cases perfect rest of the part must be maintained in order to obviate as far as possible the risk of embolism. PHLEBITIS. Inflammation of the Yeins, originally studied by Hunter, has in later years attracted the attention of many distinguished Continental and British pathologists, amongst whom may be specially mentioned Breschet, Yelpeau, Cruveilhier, Arnott, Henry Lee, Tessier, and Virchow. Causes.—Phlebitis may arise from injury of the coats of the vein, from inflammation of the tissue surrounding it (periphlebitis) or from the formation of an unhealthy thrombus within it. Each of these causes may occur separately, but frequently more than one are concerned in the process. In other cases phlebitis is said to be idiopathic, which means that the cause cannot be accurately ascertained. Traumatic phlebitis may be simple and localized, or septic and spreading. The coats of a vein, in the same way as any other tissue, become inflamed if subjected to any injury of sufficient intensity, whether it be the application of a ligature in a surgical operation, accidental mechanical violence, or the action of caustics. As the result of the injury, a clot forms within the vein, adherent to the damaged spot. If this completely occludes the vessel, it extends upwards and downwards as far as the blood in the vein is stagnant. The inflammation is however limited to the injured spot, and shows no tendency to extend. Ultimately the clot may be absorbed, and the channel of the vein restored, or the vessel may be permanently obliterated by the processes already described as occurring in arteries under similar circumstances. Traumatic phlebitis does not however always run this simple course. When the discharges of the wound through which the vein has been injured are in