154 LARYNGOTOMY AND TRACHEOTOMY. being plugged aronud the tube with a spontre In the fnnvHn n.. : .ntonded to use the catheter during a simkr'^peraLn aud i duc^ had been successfully practised beforehand, but the patient died dunt ? administration of the chloroform. pdi^itni aica ciuiing the A short tube which could be left in the larynx, with its larj^Pr .n.n.. a resting on the cords, was first employed by BouchuJ h 18 8 b t' he c?:dit of devising- the method of " intubation of the larynx " as at present nrac lt passed into the larynx is represented in Fig. 772. The expanded uppe end of the tube rests upon the ventricular bands, and the constricted paTbe 1^ lies between the vocal cords. The tubes are made in different sizes. The other instruments required are an efficient gag, a specially constructed " intio ducer for placing the tube in the larynx, and an " exh-actor " for removin, It. Ihe introducer is screwed on to a steel obturator which accurately fits the tube. If the patient be a child it should be seated on the nurse's lap with the head against her left shoulder. An assistant standing behind steadies the head and holds the gag. The Surgeon, sitting in front of the patient, passes his left index finger to the upper aperture of the larynx, and with this as a guide, inserts the tube by means of the " introducer," which is then at once removed. A loop of thread attached to the head of the tube serves as a safeguard against leaving the tube in the oesophagus ; it may be cut and withdrawn as soon as it is certain that the tube is in its right position. This is shown by an attack of coughing and the relief aflForded to the breathing. After a short time the larynx becomes very tolerant of the presence of the tube and in some cases it has been worn for long periods. The interference with the act of swallowing caused by the tube varies considerably ; soft solids are usually taken more easily than fluids, and it has been found that often degluti- tion is most easy when the child is lying on its back with the head slightly dependent. The operation of intubation is not easy. It is far easier to pass the tube into the pharynx than into the larynx, and it is very necessary that the Surgeon should gain the required skill by practice on the cadaver. Indications.—Speaking generally it may be said that intubation should be tried as a substitute for tracheotomy in cases of obstruction due to simple oedematous laryngitis or to oedema of the glottis such as follows scalds of the larynx. It has also been employed successfully in the treatment of chronic forms of laryngeal obstruction, sometimes after division of cicatricial bands, and reference has already been made to its use in cases in which difl!iculty is met with in establishing natural respiration after tracheotomy. In connexion with membranous laryngitis it is impossible at the present time to speak positively of the relative merits of intubation and tracheotomy. It seems probable, however, that if the hopes entertained of the treatment of diphtheria with the antitoxin are realized, and the false membrane can be rapidly loosened and detached, intubation may be found more successful than hitherto. A large number of statistics have been brought forward to show the Fig. 772.—O'Dwyer's Intubation Tube— size for children of from five to seven years of age.