1172 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. tion terminates in suppuration, with complete destruction of the articulation In these cases abscesses are not uncommonly met with in other parts of the body, especially in the subcutaneous tissue. Visceral abscesses are of very rare occurrence. The symptoms are those of chronic pyemia (Vol. I., p. 985) Cutaneous Eruptions, chiefly consisting of roseola, with slight'pityriasis and perhaps a few patches of psoriasis, have been described as occurring occa^ sionally in severe eases of gonorrhoea. The description given by Travers of these eruptions makes them correspond so closely to the early manifestations of syphilis that it is probable that they really resulted from an intra-urethral chancre, mistaken for gonorrhoea. If these cases and those in which the rash arises from copaiba or cubebs be excluded, it is doubtful if any true gonorrhocal skin eruptions exist. Gonorrhoea in the Female differs from the same affection in the male in being less severe in its initial manifestations but usually more extensive, of longer duration, and more apt to be followed by dangerous or even fata! sequelte. The severity is less, on account of the shortness of the female urethra preventing the occurrence of the retention of urine as in the male, and also from the absence of such parts as the prostate, testes, &c., the implication of which constitutes the principal source of difficulty in men. Gonorrhea in the female may affect the parts to very different degrees : thus, the vulva alone may be implicated, or, as most commonly happens, the inflammation may spread to the whole of the mucous membrane of the vagina. Bartholin's glands are frequently affected and may suppurate. The urethra is less com- monly the seat of disease, though occasionally implicated with other parts; and, lastly, the interior of the uterus may become affected by the specific in- flammation. In some cases it will even spread along the Fallopian tubes to the ovaries ; and ovaritis, purulent salpingitis, and fatal peritonitis may thus be induced. In other cases dilatation of the tube and the formation of a pyosalpinx may occur ; this is attended with the danger of rupture and the production of peritonitis. The Symptoms of gonorrhoea in women are sufficiently well marked in the early stages, when there is an abundant muco-puruleut discharge from the parts affected, with a good deal of inflammatory irritation, accompanied by pain in micturition, and a frequent desire to pass urine. As the disease becomes chronic, however, it is more difficult to determine its true character; it being apt to be confounded with some of those accidental and leucoirhoeal discharges to which females of all ages are subject. Diagnosis.—In the majority of cases, gonorrhoea may be distinguished from all other muco-purulejit discharges of the female organs, by the presence of inflammation about the external parts, and the mucous membrane of the vagina and urethra. In these cases it will be found, on introducing a speculum (which, however, occasions considerable pain, and is firmly grasped by the con- traction of the vagina), that the discharge comes from the vaginal wall, and that the uterine orifice is free from it, or nearly so ; whereas in leucorrhoea the discharge proceeds in a great measure from the interior of the uterus, the OS and cervix of which will probably also present signs of disease. It must, however, be borne in mind that the discharge in gonorrhoea may occa- sionally be in a great degree uterine ; and that that of leucorrhoea may be an exudation from the mucous membrane of the vagina. In such circumstances, when the disease is chronic, it is almost impossible to arrive at a cori'cct con- clusion as to the natm-e of the case from simple inspection ; and in these cases