/^-^ DISEASES OF THE TONUUE. great that the patient cannot take food, the surface mast be painted hef<nv each meal with a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine, or the ulcer may be du! d several times a day with the following powder recommended by Budin • v powdered iodoform, one grain; morphia, one-sixth to one-half of a erain borax, three grains. ^ ' Affections of the ToNGUE.-The following are tlie r.hief syphilitic aftections met with in the tongue: Primary sores (Vol I p ll->8)-- these are very rare and present nothing peculiar ; in the early secondary'stL papules are not uncommon ; later on small superficml ulcers may occur • aS'd later still^'s^m with thickened epithelium around them may be met with • mucous tubercles are more rare. In the tertiary stage the patient may sufft,' from fissures and superficial ulcers similar to those already mentioned from chrome superftcal glossitis with leucoplakia, from diffuse induration of the organ, and from gummata. These have already been described in the chapter on Syphilis (Vol. I., p. 1152), and the gummata alone need be further referred to here. Syphilitic Gummata are not uncommon in the tongue. A gumma forms an irregular indurated mass imperfectly circumscribed, and of rounded shape situated in the substance of the organ. It may occur at any part of the tongue, but it is perhaps most frequently met with near the dorsum, some- times in the middle line, a situation in which epithelioma is very rarely found. It commences distinctly beneath the surface, the mucous membrane covering it being at first unaltered. As it approaches the surface the mucous membrane becomes adherent to it, and dusky red in colour. Under proper treatment the growth may disappear, but frequently it softens ; the mucous membrane over it then gives way and a ragged cavity is exposed, in which the remains of the gumma are seen as an adherent slough, resembling wet wash-leather in appearance. If the gumma is watched from the beginning, and presents the typical course and appearances above described, there can be little difficulty in its diagnosis. If, however, it be seen for the first time after the characteristic slough has separated, the foul cavity that is left may closely resemble an epithelioma. If there is any doubt a piece of the floor or edge of the ulcer may be removed and examined microscopically, when the true nature of the disease can usually be determined. The Treatment consists in the administra- tion of large doses of iodide of potassium, and if that produces no effect mercury may be given. If the gumma softens and ulcerates, the same con- stitutional treatment must be continued and the sore dressed with iodoform. Tumours of the Tongue.—Papillomata.—Small waits are sometimes formed on the tongue and are easily removed with scissors. "Warty growths of larger size are occasionally met with, composed of large, papillae covering the end or side of the tongue. These must always be regarded with suspicion, for epithelioma may assume this form, or if the growth is at first simple it tends soon to become malignant. Such patches should therefore be excised. Adenomata or Glandular Tumours of the tongue are rare, and for oar knowledge of their characters we are chiefly indebted to Butlin and Bland Sutton, Of eight recorded cases Butlin finds that, with the exception of one which affected the under surface of the tongue, all were situated immediately in front of the epiglottis, in or near the middle line. All the cases were females, the ages varying from extreme inftincy to thirty-two years. The