^34 ANEURISM. of flesh-like fibi-in from the sac, the patient made an excellent recovery IheBe cases would certainly justify the Surgeon in adopting such a course wl.c'ii tbc danger of gangrene is imminent, and dependent on the size and pressure oi the tumour. Should, however, the gangrene show any disposition to exteud or should there be ha3morrliage from the sac after it has thus been laid opeu" the Surgeon must hold himself in readiness to amputate without delay. When gangrene has once fairly set in, thure is no reasonable prospect of savinj. the hmb ; and the sooner amputation is done the better. The limb muf^' ahvays be removed high up above the sac, and if possible, not only at sonic distance from the parts that have mortified, but also above the part to which the serous infiltration that precedes mortification has extended. The upper extremity must generally be removed at the shoulder-joint ; tlie lower above the middle of the thigh. In these cases there will generally be a considerable amount of hEeraorrhage, and many vessels will require to be tied in the stump, in consequence of the enlargement of the collateral circulation. Compression by Instruments.—In consequence of the danger and difficulties attending the use of the ligature. Surgeons have endeavoured to treat aneurism by compression. The employment of direct pressure on the aneurism was almost naturally suggested as a means of counteracting its exten- sion by the pressure of the blood from within, and has consequently been applied from a very eariy period. This plan was first employed by Bourdelot at the close of the seventeenth century ; afterwards by G-enga, Heistei-, Guattaiii and others. These Surgeons made the pressure directly upon the sac ; and ' Guattani and Flajani relate several cures which they effected in this way; but the method was so uncertain in its results, and so dangerous from its tendency to cause inflammation of the sac, that it fell into disuse. The French Surgeons introduced a modiflcation of the pressure plan, by laying open the sac, clearing out its contents, and applying the pressure directly over the opening into the vessel. Deschamps exposed the artery leading to the sac, and compressed this with an instrument which he termed the ^'p-esse-artere." These barbarous • modes of treatment, however, were entirely set aside by the facility and com- ■ paracive success of the Hunterian operation ; and compression in aneurism i was rarely practised by Surgeons after the great step made by John Hunter in the treatment of this disease. Yet we find that Hunter himself, Blizard, and ; Freer attempted, though without success, to cure this disease by pressure on ; the artery leading to the sac. Pelletan and Dubois appear to have been the first who successfully applied pressure to the artery above the sac, instead i of to the aneurism itself; this was in 1810. After this period, various • attempts were made methodically to treat aneurisms in this way ; but the merit of having introduced the practice of compression in the treat- • ment of aneurism into modern surgery, and of having established the true principles on which it acts, incontestably belongs to the Dublin Surgeons; amongst whom the names of Hutton, Belhngham, Tufnell, and Carte deserve especial mention. Principle of Compression.—In the early trials of the cure of aneurism : by compressing the artery on the cardiac side of the tumour, the Surgeons ■ who employed this method acted on an erroneous theory ; and, the principle not being understood, the practice was bad. It was supposed to be necessary, in order that a cure might take place, that the tvhole flow of blood through the