EPULIS. 623 in all recorded cases were deficient iu intellect. In a case of this kind under my care I fully removed the growth with the scalpel and scissors. It was found to consist of the ordinary structure of the gums, with fine fibrous stroma containing much gland tissue ; the papillte on the surface were very large, and covered by unusually thick epithelium. At the time of the opera- tion 'the child was 2^ years of age. Five years afterwards the late John Murray exhibited this patient and his younger brother and sister at the Medico-Chirurgical Society (Trans. Vol. LVI.). The growth had returned and the two younger children were similarly affected. They were all the sub- jects of tumours of the skin of the nature of molluscnm fibrosum and peculiar enlargements of the fingers and toes, and were all of weak intellect. No cause could be found for the disease beyond the fact that the parents were first cousins. Heath recommends in such cases that the alveolar border should be removed with the growth. Epulis is a tumour springing from the periosteum and edge of the alveolus, Fig. 6S4.—Epulis of U]ii)er Jaw, hanging clown so as to overlap the Lower Jaw. and implicating the osseous walls of the sockets ; it grows up between and loosens the neighbouring teeth, which it displaces and envelopes in its struc- ture. It is of two kinds : simple and malignant. The Simple Epulis is a fibrous tumour ; the term Malignant Epulis is applied to a myeloid sarcoma springing from the alveolar border of the jaw, and it is sometimes extended ta epithelioma of the gum. Pibrotis Epulis is most frequently met with in the lower jaw (Fig. 683). I have, however, seen several instances of its springing from the alveolar border of the upper jaw (Fig. 684). It appears to be occasioned chiefly by the irritation of decayed stumps, and hence occurs more frequently in con- nexion with the molar than with the incisor teeth. Although this disease has occasionally been seen in children, it seldom occurs before the adult age, and may be developed even up to an advanced period of life. It is seen as often among females as males. A fibrous epulis appears as a red, smooth, and lobu- lated tumour, at first hard and semi-elastic, hke the ordinary structure of the gum, but after a time ulcerating on the surface, with a purulent or sanious discharge. The fibrous epulis springs fi-om the periosteum of the alveolus or