4 L 2 CHRONIC ORCHITIS. ^251 lyouno- men of the more highly educated classes are very subject to varicocele, especially those who habitually lead a sedentary and studious lite, as, tor instance, young clergymen and lawyers. In these persons a peculiarly hypochondriacal state is brought on by the tendency of the mind to dwell on the condition of the genital organs, and the patient is constantly hdgetmg about the local and tangible disease he observes in them. Since the introduction of the antiseptic treatment of wounds the various methods which were at one time adopted for the subcutaneous ligature or strangulation of the enlarged veins have been superseded by the more certain plan of ligature and excision. The operation is thus performed : An incision, from one and a half to two inches in length, is made over the spermatic cord, commencing above just below the external abdominal ring. The skm and superficial fascia are then dissected carefully through until the cord is exposed. An assistant then feels for the vas deferens, and holding this back with the thumb and index finger of the two hands he makes the mass of veins project prominently into the wound. These are readily isolated en masse from the vas behind, and secured above and below with silk. The part of the veins which lies between the ligatures is then excised, and by tying the two ligatures together, as suggested by W. H. Bennett, the cord is correspondingly shortened. Another method consists in isolating the individual veins and ligaturing and excising them separately. This necessarily increases the length of the operation, and in separating the veins it may be difficult to avoid wounding them. It has, however, been claimed as an advantage of this method that the spermatic artery is not occluded, whereas, when the veins are tied en masse, it seems certain that the spermatic artery is also included. It does not, however, appear that there is any risk of atrophy of the testicle as the result of this. The small wound may safely be completely sutured without drainage, and the first dressing may be left unchanged for a week, at the end of which time the wound will usually be found to have united by the first intention. SOLID ENLARGEMENTS OF THE TESTIS. All solid enlargements of the testicle were formerly classed together under the term Sarcocele; and when they were conjoined with fluid accumulations in the tunica vaginalis, they were termed Hydro-sarcocele. There seems, however, no advantage in the continued use of these terms. Solid enlarge- ments of the testicle may be divided into Chronic Orchitis, Syphilitic and Tuberculous Disease, and the true Ihmiours. Chronic Orchitis.—In this a chronic enlargement of the testis results from inflammatory mischief in the organ not arising from syphilis or tubercle. Such cases are undoubtedly rare. Our increased knowledge of both tubercle and syphilis has taught us that the great majority of cases formerly classed as simple orchitis are really due to one of these two causes. Still, excluding all such cases, a residue is left to which the name of simple orchitis may be applied. Causes.—Chronic orchitis may be a consequence of acute inflammation from any cause. It also arises from blows or squeezes in old people. Most com- monly it is associated with some disease of the urinary organs, such as stricture or chronic enlargement of the prostate. In other cases it may be associated with rheumatism or gout.