ACUTE ARTHRITIS: PATHOLOGY, 335 As soon as perforation takes place, the suppuration extends between the cartilage and the bone, the pus being formed from the vascular medullary tissue of the cancellous spaces. The cartilage thus becomes loosened, and is bathed by pus on each side. Its nutrition being cut off it perishes, becomes yellow in colour, and tough and leathery in consistence. _ Microscopic ex- amination shows that the process is one of sloughing and disintegration. The matrix is opaque and granular, and the cells show no signs of proliferation, but on the contrary have broken down into a mass of fat granules. At the margins of the cartilages in those parts not exposed to pressure, and in those cases of acute arthritis which terminate without suppuration, tbe destruction of the cartilages takes place by a process of true ulceration. The cartilages are overlapped at their margins by the granulation tissue formed from the inflamed synovial membrane. On removing this the surface of the cartilage will be seen to be marked by irregular hollows filled with a similar tissue, and in a later stage the cartilaginous tissue will be found to have been destroyed to a greater or less extent. In other parts of the cartilage similar changes may be observed, but they are always most marked in the neighbourhood of the vascular fringes of the synovial membrane. So much is this the case that Aston Key was led to believe that the destruction of the cartilage was directly effected by the development of a fimbriated or fringed vascular network or tissue from the synovial membrane, by which the process of absorption was carried out. The true nature of the changes occurring in ulceration of cartilage was first described by Goodsir, and his observations were confirmed and extended by Eedfern and Rainey, who pointed out the fact that cartilage, like other vascular tissues, may undergo changes independent of the prolonga- tion of vessels into it. If a vertical section be made of a piece of articular cartilage in process of ulceration, the changes observed will vary with the acuteness of the process. In some cases the appearances will closely resemble those already described as being met with in ulceration of bone. The surface of the cartilage is seen to be irregularly hollowed out, the hollows being filled with small round cells, having the ordinary appearance of the migrating leucocytes observed in acute inflammations elsewhere ; immediately beneath these, the matrix of the unaltered cartilage is cloudy, and the cartilage-cells may be granular, but there is no evidence of proliferation. There is, in fact, nothing to prove that the new cells are derived from the pre-existing ceUs of the cartilage, and that the process is not exactly analogous to the destruction of bone by cells derived from the vascular medullary tissue, probably by migration from its vessels. In less acute processes, on the other hand, the destruction of the cartilage is undoubtedly due to changes commencing in its own cells. In a vertical section proceeding from the healthy cartilage to the diseased surface, the following appearances are observed. In from the fifth to the twelfth layer fi'om the surface the cells are seen to be undergoing proliferation ; in each capsule two or four cells are found ; proceeding towards the diseased surface, the number of cells in each space increases, and they gradually lose the character- istic appearance of cartilage-cells and become indistinguishable from the round cells of granulation tissue. As the cells multiply the spaces containing them necessarily increase at the expense of the surrounding matrix, and at the same time the capsules become more and more indistinct and at last disappear altogether. The matrix near the surface becomes cloudy and granular, and at