1226 DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. it. Ulceration soon sets in, with abundant foul disclmr^^e \t first tho .n? t.nction from a simple growth is not easy to make, but the Va Lid infiltrating the glans will usually indicate its nature Cancer of the penis occurring under a long foreskin soon leads to s,uk enlargement 0 the glans that the prepuce cannot be drawn b ck It ! causes a globular enlargement over which the skin of the prc^ut is t! stretched, and a foul serous discharge, often tinged with blood es'aLst L^ the orifice. Finally the distended foreskin may'give way a^d tl u' t caircerous growth project through an ulcerating, apertm/ia it. Thr^al m the groin are early affected. -Lnc giaiid), Causes-It has been supposed, and with some show of reason that con genital phimosis predisposes to the affection; probably by coi fin ng secretions, and bus keeping up irritation of the part. Hey found that of 2 patients with this disease who came under his observation, D had ongenita tZTrT VT' f ''■'^^ circum'cised, are seldom subject to this affection. But as they are a limited community in this country and as the disease is rare, we cannot draw any conclusive inference from this Observation. It is, however, very probable that the papillary form of the disease often arises from the local irritation resulting from the accumulatioa of the secretion under along foreskin. Chronic balano-posthitis of ten occasions a condition of the mucous membrane of the glans and prepuce closely resembling that seen in chronic superficial glossitis, and this undoubtedly pre- disposes the part to the development of carcinoma. The nodular form of the affection, however, may occur frequently in individuals who have not suffered froni any source of irritation ; of this I have seen several instances. Diagnosis.—Carcinoma of the penis requires to be diagnosed from^Mpi/lo- matcL This may usually be done by comparing the indurated state of the malignant with the soft and lax condition of the non-malignant aflfection. From an indurated chancre, of the glans, the history of the case and the way in which it is influenced by treatment will enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. The Treatment of cancer of the penis will vary according to the nature and extent of the affection. If the growth have originated in the prepuce, it may be possible, if the case be seen early, to remove the disease completely Ijy circumcision. Should the growth involve the glans or body of the penis, the treatment must be conducted on the principles that guide us in the manage- ment of malignant affections elsewhere, viz., to remove the diseased organ ai as early a stage as possible, whilst the affection is confined to it. In the penis this may readily be done by a simple operation that is nearly devoid of danger. I believe that amputation of the penis for cancer is more successful in its results than is the extirpation of malignant growths from most other situations. In some of Hey's cases, which continued under his observation, there was no recurrence of the disease for several years. I have seen several patients who, after a lapse of six or eight years, have continued free from recurrence : and I have also seen a gentlemali in whom no return had taken place after more than twenty-five years. The fact is, that we hear of those cases in which a recurrence takes place ; but those patients who remain free from a return of the afiFection do not divulge their infirmity ; and it is exceedingly rare in hospital practice to find a patient come back with recurrent cancer in the stump of the penis, which he would certainly do if relapse took