TREATMENT OF BRONCHOCELE. 615 Fibrous Broncliocele.-This form commences as simple hypertrophy bnf ?s the tumour increases in size it loses its soft elastic feel and becomes d„rindurated; at the same time its form often ch-ges bec^^^^^^^^^ more irregular and lobulated. Calcification is not uncommon. The pie ure effects of the fibrous bronchocele are more severe than those « form, owing to the greater density of its structure. Respiration may be o eatly imp^eded, at fiSt only during exertion, but, when the growth readies a considerable size, during rest also. Occasionally the tumour may extend below under the sternum, and the pressure-signs then become more serious. In other cases the recurrent laryngeal nerve may be compressed, giving rise to the symptoms already described at page 155. Deglutition is seldom seriously interfered with. „ Cystic Bronchocele is due to the development of cysts m the substance of the enlarged gland. These cysts may be single or multiple. When single or of large size, as in Fig. 682, they usually contain clear serous fluid. When multiple, they are filled with colloid substance, or with a fluid that presents the ordinary characters of altered blood, being dark, grumous, or like cotfee-grounds. Cauliflower-like excrescences pro- jecting into the interior are sometimes met with, and calcification of the cyst wall may occur. Pulsating Bronchocele is occasionally met with. The pulsation which is excentric and distensile, is synchronous with the heart's action, and evidently due to the vascular character of the tumour itself. This form of bronchocele is sometimes conjoined with the cystic. When it is con- fined to one lobe only, care must be taken not to confound the beatings with those of carotid aneurism ; a mistake TiSiS^'^rSSing which I have known to occur. The diagnosis of the two clear serous Fluid, affections has been adverted to at p. 171. Treatment.—The treatment of bronchocele must vary according to the size and character of the tumour, and the constitutional condition associated with it. When small, and associated with anemia, and of comparatively recent formation, it is best treated by improving the general condition of the patient. This may be done in various ways : by the administration of good food; by change of air from a low and damp to an elevated and dry and healthy situation. This has been much insisted on by those who have studied the disease in those valleys of Switzerland in which it is endemic ; and escab- lishments have been erected several thousand feet above the level of the sea, for the cure of patients thus affected. G-uggenbiihl has been particularly successful in this respect. In towns, the patient, if living on the basement floor, should be moved to the upper storey, and should be encouraged in habits of outdoor occupations. Besides these hygienic measures the disease may be treated medically by the administration of iron, especially the iodide, and the external application of iodine or of iodide of lead ointment. Indeed, in the solt bronchocele occurring to anaemic females iron is of the utmost service, and acts almost as a specific. In bronchoceles of large size, and unconnected with aneemia, the chief reliance is to be placed on the free and continuous use of iodine internally as well as externally. Tne iodide of potassium is the best form in which to give