SPEC IA L A NEURISMS. 234 aorta. The sao burst during the manipulation necessary to roach the aorta, and about a pint of blood was lost. The patient died in eleven hours. Stokes compressed the aorta with a silver wire passed round it in the way of a ligature. He made a crescentic incision live-and-a-half inches in length in tlie left side of the abdomen, extending from an inch below the tenth rib to the middle of Poupart's ligament. The abdominal muscles and fascia transversalis were then incised, and the peritoneum exposed and drawn out of the iliac fossa. It was accidentally, but only slightly wounded. The patient being turned on his right side, the arteries and the aneurism were exposed, and the wire passed by means of an aneurism needle round the aorta immediately above its bifurcation. The patient died in twelve hours. Perhaps the most interesting point in this remarkable case is the fact of the pulsation having returned in the left (sound) femoral artery nine hours after the operation ; shewing how rapidly the collateral circulation can be established. The following cases scarcely belong to the present category, but may be mentioned here. One was a French soldier, the upper part of whose thigh had been shattered by a ball at Weissenburg during the Franco-German war. Secondary htemorrhage occurring, Czerny, then Billroth's assistant, tied the common femoral, and also the superficial femoral below the origin of the profunda. This arrested the liEemorrhage for a time ; but in six days it recurred. Czerny then tied the common iliac ; but, as the haemorrhage con- tinued, he thought that he had tied the external iliac, and proceeded to apply another ligature—which he placed by mistake on the aorta. The patient survived twenty-six hours. In this case too, twenty-two hours after the operation, the injured limb was cold and as if dead, while the opposite limb was warm, and retained sensation and motion. In another case Heron Watson tied the abdominal aorta by the transperitoneal method for secondary hsemor- rhage following ligature of the common iliac ; the patient died of exhaustion in sixty-three hours. Lastly, the aorta was unsuccessfully tied by Czerny for the arrest of hsemorrhage during the excision of a tumour of the kidney ; the patient died in ten hours. At the present day peritonitis can almost certainly be prevented, and the use of more suitable ligatures may add to the chance of success ; but it appears to me that a patient suffering from an inguinal aneurism large enough to justify ligature of the aorta would have a better chance of recovery, or rather of pro- longation of life, by the adoption of proper constitutional treatment, together with pressure upon the tumour and the distal ligature or compression of the artery. Lister's aortic compressor might be appUed in such cases, so as to moderate the flow of blood. Should the operation be attempted again, there is little doubt that the incision adopted by Astley Cooper would be the safest, as the danger of peritonitis is much less under the present modes of treatment. Aneurism of the Internal Iliac and its Branches.—Aneurism of the Trunlc of fM Internal Iliac Artery is extremely rare. The only case with which I am acquainted is one related by Sandifort. The three principal branches of this artery—the Gluteal, the Sciatic, and the Pw^^ic—have all occasionally, though rarely, been found affected by this disease. Of these branches the gluteal has most frequently been found aneurismal, the sciatic next, and the pudic least frequently; indeed, I am acquainted with only one instance of aneurism of this vessel. It is the preparation 1701 in the Museum of the