272 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. ration and inliammatoiy hyperbropliy, removed by amputation from a woman who liad suffered foi- twenty-three years from the disease. The Causes of Chronic Abscess of Bone are often somewhat doubtful. It occurs ahoost exchisively in scrofulous subjects, and there can be no doubt that the immediate cause in a very large proportion of cases is the deposit of tubercle in the medulhi of the cancellous tissue. This sets up inflammation around it, and finally softens in the same way as in other parts. In some cases the disease arises apparently from injury. The Symptoms of chronic abscess of Ijone are usually of the following character. The patient, perhaps after the receipt of an injury, has noticed that at one spot the affected bone has become swollen and painful ; the skin covering- it preserves its natural colour in the majority of cases, but in some instances becomes red, glazed, and cedematous ; the pain, which is of a lan- cinating and aching character, is usually remittent, often ceasing for days, weeks, or months, and then returning, under the influence of very trivial causes, with its original severity. It is especially troublesome at night, and is always associated with a degree of tenderness of the part ; and, indeed, in the intervals of its accession, it will be found on careful examination that there is always one tender spot in the enlarged and indurated bone. The long persistence, for years perhaps, of these signs will usually point to the existence of a small circumscribed abscess under the thickened wall of the bone. It must be borne in mind, however, that the same local symptoms may be induced by four conditions : 1. By a chronic abscess without necrosis. 2. By the inclusion of a small piece of dead bone surrounded by pus within a dense and impervious casing. 3. By simple or syphilitic osteitis and periostitis (p. 269, and Vol. I., p. 1157), without suppuration or necrosis ; and, 4. By the growth of a tumour within the bone. For all practical purposes the diagnosis is of little consequence, as the operative procedure is the same, whether the symptoms arise from the confinement of a few drops of pus or from the inclusion of necrosed bone, and the diagnosis of the presence of a tumour can often be made only by a similar operation. The danger of chronic abscess of the end of a long bone will greatly depend on its proximity to the articular surface. If near this, it will probably lead to perforation of the cartilage, so that the pus enters the joint, which then becomes acutely inflamed and often destroyed. If the abscess is due to the presence of softening tubercle the synovial membrane may become infected, and chronic tuberculous disease of the joint may thus be set up. If the chronic abscess be situated in the diaphysis near the junction of the epiphysis with the shaft, this event is not so likely to occur. The surrounding bone simply becomes thickened ; and though the health may suffer from the constant wearing pain, the joint is not in peril, and relief may readily be given by operation. Treatment.—As a circumscribed abscess in bone cannot perforate the dense osseous structure overlying it by any process analogous to the pointing and discharge of an abscess in the soft parts, it becomes necessary for the Surgeon ■ to open up a vent for the pus. In some cases simple linear osteotomy, as described at p. 270, may be practised ; but should the bone be much thickened and the osseous structures greatly indurated, an efficient aperture can only be made bv means of the trephine or gouge. Before performing this operation the point of greatest tenderness should be accurately marked on the skin.