2IO SPECIAL ANEURISMS. The cause of death in Gross's case was probably the fact of the sac opening and discharging its contents into the pleural cavity. This does not appear to have occurred in Bullen's, in which a communication was established directly with the lung, the contents of the abscess finding exit through the air-tubes. The process here was analogous to what occasionally occurs in hepatic abscess when this opens through the lungs, adhesion having previously taken place between the opposed surfaces of the pleura. In Turner's case of aneurism of both axillary arteries, the two subclavians were tied in the third part of their course at an interval of about fifteen months. The patient, a stone mason by trade, made an excellent recovery fron\ the first operation. After the second operation he progressed favourably for twelve weeks, by which time the tumour had diminished so much as to be not more than a third of its original size. Without obvious reason febrile disturbance set in, the tumour enlarged again, and showed signs of suppura- tion. Furner now made a free incision into it through the pectoral muscle, and let out 18 or 20 ounces of very offensive pus and broken-down coagulum. The patient speedily recovered and the tumour entirely disappeared. The principal danger, and the most frequent cause of death after the suppuration of the sac, is the supervention of profuse arterial haemorrhage. This may occur either from the distal extremity of the artery opening into the sac, or from one of the large branches which serve to support the collateral circulation round the shoulder, such as the subscapular or posterior circumflex coming off either immediately above or below the sac, or fi-om the sac itself. When hsemorrhage does not take place after suppuration of the sac, it must be owing to the fortunate circumstance that the main trunk is occluded where it opens into the tumour. It can scarcely be from the occlusion of the principal collateral branches, as there would, in that event, be a difficulty in the preser- vation of the vitality of the limb. It is easy to understand that, if the sac sprang from the axillary, at a little distance above the orifices of the subscapu- lar and circumflex arteries, all that portion of the main trunk which intervenes between the tumour and these vessels might be occluded, and thus haemorrhage be prevented on suppuration taking place ; whilst the collateral circulation would take place uninterruptedly through these vessels. If this portion of the artery have not been occluded by inflammation, the safety of the patient must depend upon the accident of a coagulum or piece of laminated fibrin being fixed or entangled in the mouth of the sac. This may prevent for a time the escape of arterial blood, which, on the plug being loosened, may again occur, and either at once, or by its recurrence prove fatal. Another danger may be superadded in these cases to the suppuration of the sac and the supervention of hgemorrhage-namely, the extension of inflam- mation to the pleura, lung, and pericardium from the sac. Secondary hcemorrhage does not frequently occur m cases of hgature ot the subclavian artery in the third part of its course, except as a consequence of suppuration of the sac. I myself have seen but two cases in winch death occurred from hgemorrhage taking place from this artery at the part l,gatui-ed. One of these happened to Listen, and the preparation is preserved m tlie Museum of the College of Surgeons (No. 1695). In this case it may be seen that the artery was diseased at the point ligatured, and that the blee hng c urred, as usual, from the distal side of '^Y^^T-^ "^Z l^Z Koch's table of 79 cases, and adding to it 11 collected by hnnself, finds that