LIGA'lVJiE OF INTERNAL ILIAC. 235 College of Surgeons : and it exhibits an aneurism of the trunk of the pudic nearly an inch in diameter, full of laminated clot. Aneurisms of the Gluteal and Sciatic Arteries may be either traumatic or spontaneous. Fischer of Hanover has published with comments, in the Arohiv fur Idinische Chirurgie, the records of thirty-tive cases of gluteal and sciatic aueurism ; to which must be added a case of gluteal aneurism described by G-allozzi of Naples, one by Bickersteth of Liverpool, and three by Dennis. In twenty- seven of Fischer's cases the aneurism was gluteal, in six sciatic, and in two the origin was uncertain. Thirteen of the gluteal aneurisms, and two of the sciatic, were of traumatic origin ; fourteen gluteal and four sciatic aneurisms were spontaneous. The gluteal aneurism has generally been found situated on the upper part of the great sciatic notch ; but it may extend over a large portion of the buttock. Sciatic aneurism lies more deeply ; and a portion of the sac may be within the pelvis. The size of these aneurisms varies from a slight swelling to a tumour as large as a child's head. In almost all the recorded cases there has been strong pulsation, with whirring and buzzing murmurs heard on auscultation. There is almost always pain in the tumour itself and in the course of the scialic nerve, which maybe followed by paralysis of the parts supplied by it. The affections with which these aneurisms are most likely to be confounded are abscesses, soft sarcomata, cysts, and sciatic hernia. The diagnosis is sometimes difficult : thus Gruthrie ligatured the common iliac artery for a large pulsating tumour in the gluteal region, which presented all the characters of aneurism, but which proved, on the death of the patient eight months after the operation, to be a sarcoma. The diagnosis may be facilitated by examina- tion through the rectum, as the sac may lie partly in the pelvis. Gluteal aneurisms have on several occasions been opened by mistake foi- abscesses. According to Holmes, this accident has most frequently happened when the aneurism has been more or less diffused, and in such cases he suggests that the aspirator should be used to render the diagnosis certain. In the Treatment, various methods have been employed. The sac has tern laid open and the gluteal artery tied in five cases, all of which recovered. In another instance, after laying open the sac, the aneurism (gluteal) was found to extend into the pelvis ; and the internal iliac artery was tied, with a fatal result. Ligature of the internal iliac arterghn.s been performed in fourteen cases, eight of which recovered. The common iliac artery has been tied in three cases, all of which proved fatal. Injection of the perchloride of iron has been used in six cases ; four recovered, one died, apd in one the result is not known. Ligature of the sciatic artenj without opening the sac has been performed in two cases, one of which recovered. Spontaneous recovery is reported to have occurred in one case. _ Ligature of the Internal Iliac—This vessel was ligatured for the first time in 1812. The operation was performed by Stevens of Ste. Croix, on a negress who suffered from an aneurism of the nates, supposed to be of the gluteal artery, but found after death three years subsequently to 'take its origm from the sciatic. Stevens in this case made an incision five inches long on the left side of the abdomen, carefully dissected through the parietes, separating the peritoneum fi'om the iliac fossa, turned it on one side, together with the ureter, and passed a ligature round the artery without much diffi