353 TUBERCULOUS JOIST DISEASE: TREATMENT. applied with moderate firmuess. The splint necessary to fix the joint immovably is then applied, the patient is replaced in bed with the limb elevated at a right angle to the body, and the tourniquet is removed. At the end of twenty-four hours, when all fear of oozing is past, the limb may be brought down to the level of the body. If all goes well, the discharge soaks into the wool and dries, and the dressing may often be left untouched for a month or six weeks, at the end of which time the incisions will in most cases have healed. The indications for changing the dressing are pain, eleva- tion of temperature, or the appearance of discharge from under it. Arthrectomy or Erasion was first recommended by Volkmann as a sub- stitute for excision, and was first described in this country by Wright of Manchester, who practised it for tuberculous disease of the knee. In per- forming arthrectomy the Surgeon aims at the complete removal of the diseased tissues with the least possible damage to the healthy parts. The diseased joint is laid freely open, and the tuberculous synovial membrane is dissected away as completely as possible with a scalpel or scissors and forceps. At the same time carious cavities may be scraped with a sharp spoon. After the operation the same treatment may be adopted as after incision. Excision or Resection consists in the removal of iihe articular extremity of one or both the bones entering into the formation of the joint. A general consideration of the subject of the excision of joints will be found at the end of this chapter, and the operations will be described in connexion with the individual joints. Amputation is occasionally required as a last resource ; but the cases in which it is necessary have greatly diminished in number owing to the im- provements in conservative surgery dependent upon the antiseptic treatment of wounds. Simple incision of tuberculous joints has been largely replaced by partial or complete arthrectomy. The good effect of incision is probably due to a great extent to the relief of tension, as the diseased tissue is not extensively removed. In cases of tuberculous dropsy of a joint with evident thickening of the synovial membrane, Konig recommends a free incision with removal of a slice of the diseased membrane on each side. The operation in his hands has been attended with satisfactory results, a movable joint being obtained. It must, of course, be performed with the strictest antiseptic precautions. Amputation on the other hand is likely to be required only when there is extensive disease of the bones and surrounding parts, or when extensive recurrence has followed other operative measures ; when albumenoid degenera- tion of viscera is present ; or when the general condition of the patient necessitates removal of the diseased part in such a way as shall require the least amount of reparative power to recover from the operation. In the majority of cases therefore the choice lies between arthrectomy and excision, the relative merits of which, when both are available, will be considered in connexion with the individual joints. In any case the success of the operation must be judged not only by the completeness of the cure of the disease but also by the subsequent utility of the limb. _ In cases that recover without operation much thiclenijig and stiffness of the joint are left, and measures may be adopted for removing these' conditions and restoring the flexibility of the articulation by frictions with somewhat stimulating and counter-irritant embrocations, and eventually its strength by VOL. II, . A A