FISTULA IN ANO. 971' attracted a o-ood deal of attention from the frequency of its occurrence, and. from the diffioalty of caring it without having recourse to opera ion Extent-^^^^ following an anal abscess the fistula is very hmited being mereh the sinus left in the submucous areolar tissue of the anus after the Wm! of superficial collection of pus in this situation, extending to a. S dl anc u7the gut inside the sphincter. This constitutes the mo ■ clmon w^^^^ the disease. In a fistula resulting from an ischio-rectal.. aW the t2k passes outside the sphincter in the surrounding aijolar tissue eteTlg liys as high as the upper margin of that muscle an fr jen^^ stretching to a considerable distance up the side of the gut. Most irequentiy the low^^^ aperture of the fistula is single, and is situated by the- ide f the anus m the ischio-rectal fossa, just beyond the f--^er; bu n^^^^ ■nnfrequently the aperture is in the perinseum, or postenorly m the cocoygea •reo-ion Occasionally there is a fistulous opening on each side of the gut; or e? ra openings may exist, and then sinuses extend from these upwards and Outwards'to I considerable distance, undermining the -teguments of he perineum about the buttocks, even stretching away towards the trochanters and opening at a great distance from the bowel. These extensive fistute and Onuses are frequently connected with stricture of the gut; but they may occur without this in old and neglected cases of the simple disease. . The fistute are usually oblique, but straight in their direction from a point half an inch or an inch from the anal aperture, running upwards to above the sphincter In some cases they are tortuous ; and, occasionally, when opening at a distance from the gut, and extensively undermining the integuments, ther are angular, having, as it were, an elbow at that point where the superficial sinus meets the deep fistula. This pecuharity will prevent the passage of a probe through their whole length until the external sinus has been sht up, and the commencement of the deep track reached, and may lead to the supposition of the fistula being more superficial than it really is. Varieties.—Fistula in ano is said to be Complete when it communicates- by one end with the rectum, and opens by the other upon the external surface. It is said to be Incomplete when it has only one aperture, whether that be: external or internal. Complete Fistula is the most common form. It probably arises m the- majority of cases from some source of irritation seated within the bowel, by which the mucous membrane of the rectum has been perforated, and an abscess has formed in the submucous areolar tissue or outside the gut. The external opening in this form of fistula is usually from half an inch to an inch from the margin of the anus ; though it may be seated at a greater distance than this,, as upon the hip. It is commonly small, and has a vascular granulation projecting from or occluding it; and a thin purulent discharge usually drains away from it in small quantities, moistening the surrounding integuments.. The internal opening is usually situated just above the sphincter, where the- rectum begins to expand. But the fistula does not terminate at this internal aperture ; for in the majority of cases it runs up a considerable distance further into a kind of cul-de-sac. The internal aperture may readily be detected by introducing a blunt curved probe into the fistula ; when, by a little management, it may be carried through the inner opening. In some- cases, the existence of this may be ascertained by examining the interior of the bowel with a speculum, and by injecting water into the external opening. Incomplete or Blind Fistulse may be of two kinds. When there is no