6 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. cellular mass,which then softens; the cuticle covering it is thrown oif and the disintegrated caseous matter is discharged, leaving an ulcer which may slowly extend. The disease is then known as ulcerative lupus, lupus exedens or lupus exulcerans. These two forms are therefore mere modifications of one process ; the fate of the new growth, whether it is absorbed without ulceration or whether it softens and is discharged, being due to local or constitutional conditions, of the nature of which we have no definite knowledge. Symptoms.—Lupus commences in the form of small nodules, buried in the skin. They are separate from each other, and arranged in gi'oups, or some- times in irregular circles. At first they form red or reddish-brown patches, from a line to a quarter of an inch in diameter, which are not raised above the surface. The nodules continue slowly to develop, till after some weeks they become slightly elevated, and covered by a fine branny epidermic desqua- mation. Seen through the epidermis the nodules have a semi-translucent appearance, compared by Hutchinson to that of " apple-jelly." Several patches may coalesce, forming larger tubercles, and at the same time new patches appear, so that all stages of development may be observed at once in the same case. At this point the two forms of the disease diverge. In Lupus non exedens, the tubercle becomes paler in colour and gradually shrinks and disappears. The integument which has been afi'ected by the disease may be in one of two states: it may either continue red, irritable, and branny, having the appearance of a thin cicatricial tissue, and in this way the greater part or the whole of the face may be affected ; or it may leave a firm, white, smooth, and depressed cicatrix, exactly resembling that produced by a burn, along the margin of which the disease slowly spreads, in the form of an elevated ridge composed of soft bluish-white or reddish tubercles. In Lupus exedens, instead of disappearing, the tubercles become pale in colour and softened ; the epithelial covering separates, and the disintegrated cheesy mass mixed with some pus is discharged, and drying on the surface forms a scab. This process may be accompanied by considerable inflammation of the skin surrounding the lupoid patches, with heat, swelHng, and pain. When the scab separates, an ulcer is seen beneath. It is sharply defined, with slightly raised edges, and usually a smooth red surface which bleeds readily. This sore may gradually extend both superficially and in depth, and when seated on the nose often leads to destruction of the al^ and columna. Lupus vulcraris seldom, however, spreads very deeply, although large areas of skin may be affected, and the most frightM deformity may result. Caseation and suppuration occasionally occur in the nearest lymphatic glands. Situation.—iM^v.^ may occur on any part of the body, but it is far more commonly met with on the face than elsewhere, the nose and cheeks being the parts usually attacked. It may commence on mucous membranes, but most commonly reaches them by extension from the skin. lb is, however occasionally met with as a primary disease in the pharynx and larynx It then usually assumes the ulcerative form, and may lead to extensive destruc- tion of the mucous membrane. , . . i ..v. Sex and ^^e.-Lupus vulgaris occurs much more commonly in females than in males. It usually begins in early life,-according to Kaposi rarely before the third year and almost never after puberty." Cases do, however, occasion- ally occur in which the disease begins much later than this, but they are rare.