489 CARIES OF SPINE: DIAGNOSIS. from femoral hernia with fluid in the sac. These various collections rany, however, with a little caution be readily distinguished from the ordinary form of spinal abscess that descends along the psoas muscle. In the first place, m all these cases there is an absence of that dorsal pain and tenderness, with more or less excurvation, which, though not invariably present, is commonly met with in psoas abscess. Then, again, if the collection he perinephnhc, there will have been previous, or there are co-existing symptoms of renal disease. I have, however, seen an abscess dependent on caries of the vertebra not only assume the perinephritic form, but open into the pelvis of the kidney, thus simulating chronic pyelitis. In this case the diagnosis was made by a careful examina- tion of the pus, in which molecular masses of carious bone were found. The chemical and microscopic examination of the pus in all cases of doubt should never be omitted. If there be caries, it may present unmistakable evidence of the presence of disintegrated bone. If it occur in the areolar tissue around the accum, the pus will be peculiarly offensive, will present itself in a less distinct manner, and will probably be associated with symptoms of intestinal irritation. Moreover, perinephritic or pericsecal abscesses being superficial to the iliac fascia, do not extend below Poupart's ligament except in some rare cases, in which the abscess is acute and forces its way irrespectively of the attachments of the fasciae. Thus I have seen the pus in a pericecal abscess pass under Poupart's ligament, and present as a large sloughy abscess at the upper and outer part of the thigh. In those rare cases in which an empyema has found its way between the layers of the abdominal muscles, and presented in the groin, the examination of the chest will point out the nature of the affection. In abscess connected ivith disease oj the hip-joint, there will be special local evidences of the source of the pus. The only real difficulty con- sists in diagnosing a psoas abscess dependent on disease of the vertebral column, before it reaches the thigh, from iliac abscess, whether it take its origin in the loose areolar tissue of the iliac fossa, or be connected with disease of the corresponding bone ; and in the latter cases the difiiculty is often not a little increased in consequence of the iliac abscess finding its way into the sheath of the psoas muscle. If the iliac abscess be superficial to the fascia iliaca, it very rarely passes beneath Poupart's ligament, owing to the firm attachment of these two structures to each other. In very rare cases such abscesses find their way along tlie spermatic cord or down the femoral sheath, and thus leave the abdomen, but these could not be confounded with psoas abscesses. When the collection of pus forms beneath the fascia iliaca, there is nothing to prevent its extending to the psoas or passing down under Poupart's ligament, and the determination of its origin whether from disease of the ilium, or vertebrae, or from a strain, can be made only by the presence or absence of the symptoms of disease of the spine. Whenever the abscess is beneath the fascia, there are some signs of irritation of the ilio-psoas muscle, which are usually wanting when the pus is in the subperitoneal tissue. These signs are most marked when the abscess extends along the whole length of the psoas. There is then an inability to stand upright, to extend the leg, and pain is complained of in walking. Psoas abscess also, in many cases, appears on the thigh suddenly, the patient finding, on washing himself in the morning, that he has a large soft tumour in the groin ; whereas iliac abscess comes on more gradually, and presents in a more diffused and less circumscribed manner.