1129 TUMOURS OF THE BLADDER. SACCULI OF THE BLADDER. Sacculi have akeady been mentioned at pp 992, 1041, and 1114 as arising in connexion with over-distension of the bladder or obstruction to the escape of urine rom it. These are of small size, not usually exceeding a pigeon s egg Thrarise,as already described, in the bladders of elder^ -n have suffered from severe mechanical obstacle to the passage of .the ™e 1^ the shape of stricture or enlarged prostate; they are associated wth a generally thickened fasciculated state of the organ, and appear to be the result of pressure on the contained urine during efforts at expulsion, causmg extrusion of the mucous and serous coats, and perhaps of the thinned muscular coat at some points of least resistance. , , Sacs connected with the bladder are, however, occasionally met with, the ori-in of which can hardly be explained in this way. These may be single or multiple, and may attain an enormous size. The largest I have seen occurred in a man 35 years of age, otherwise perfectly healthy. There was a tense elastic tumour, smooth and rounded, occupying the whole abdomen ana extending into the pelvis, so as to be felt through the rectum. Had it occurred in a woman, the disease would probably have been pronounced to be ovarian. The tumour had existed for six months, had gradually increased, but occasioned no uneasiness except by its pressure-effects. There had been no difficulty in passing urine or in defecation. The tumour was aspirated at its most prominent part, and seven pints of clear urine were drawn off. Ihe patient suddenly became faint, and died of syncope. On examination after death, two enormous sacs were found connected with the bladder, one on each side, by a rounded opening that would admit the httle finger. These orifices were equidistant from the mesial line, and about an inch and a half above each ureter. The sacs were thin-walled, composed chiefly of mucous mem- brane and peritoneum, possibly having scattered muscular fibres m their composition ; both were emptied through the bladder by the one puncture. The ureter on each side was adherent to the wall of the sacculus and consider- ably pressed upon, and as the result of this the pelves of the kidneys were dilated ; the pyramidal portion of the kidney was absorbed and the cortex greatly thickened and indurated by chronic interstitial inflammation. The bladder was greatly dilated and hyperfcrophied, its mucous membrane was opaque and white, and showed no signs of old or recent cystitis. The prostate and urethra were healthy, and no source of mechanical obstruction was detected. The cause of the condition is extremely obscure. There is a similar specimen, but somewhat less marked, in the museum of University College ; the sacculus springs from the same spot, which indeed, from compari- son with other specimens, seems to be the common point of origin of all sacculi of the bladder which reach any considerable size. TUMOURS OF THE BLADDER. Simple Tumours.—The most common simple growth is the Villous Tumour or Fapilloma. It consists of delicate branched processes, which, when the growth is immersed in water, float out, so that it somewhat resembles a sea anemone. These may spring from a narrow base forming a peduncu-