484 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. forwards behind the pharynx, and may occasionally extend under the stemo- mastoid muscle to the side of the neck, where it opens ; sometimes, though very rarely, it passes into the chest, and in otlier cases into the axilla. When the disease is seated in the upper or middle doi'sal spine, the abscess most commonly passes backwards between the posterior ends of the ribs, forming a dorsal abscess. In some cases, however, in which the middle dorsal vertebrfE are diseased the abscess may extend downwards. When it takes this direction it most commonly passes under the ligamentum arcuatum internum, and thus enters the sheath of the psoas muscle and takes the course to be described immediately. In rare cases it may pass between the pillars of the diaphragm with the aorta and follow the large vessels in the subperitoneal tissue superficial to the fascia of the psoas and iliacus, forming an accumulation filling the ihac fossa and pointing above Poupart's ligament, or it may extend downwards into the pelvis and escape with the gluteal artery through the great sciatic notch, giving rise to a large abscess in the gluteal region. It is remarkable that in caries of the dorsal vertebrae the pus does not tend to encroach on the chest or the pleural cavity. When the lower dorsal or upper lumbar vertebras are diseased the pus enters the sheath of the psoas or the substance of the muscle, thus constituting the common affection termed Psoas Abscess. A psoas abscess follows the course of the muscle from which it derives its name. It is firmly bound down in front by the fascia covering that muscle and the iliacus, which is usually considerably thickened and is never perforated by the pus. The psoas muscle is usually extensively destroyed. The pus is prevented from extending downwards into the pelvis by the attach- ment of the iUo-psoas fascia to the brim ; there is nothing to limit its extension outwards over the whole surface of the ihacus, though the attachment of the fascia to the crest of the ilium prevents its passing beyond that point. Thus we find that a psoas abscess usually extends outwards, forming a large fluctuating swelling filling the iliac fossa. As the accumulation increases it passes beneath Poupart's ligament most commonly by a somewhat narrow neck situated in the line of the anterior crural nerve. It is thus at this part situated to the outer side of the femoral vessels. Fluctuation can readily be felt between the swelling on the thigh and that in the ihac fossa. There is very distinct impulse communicated to the part outside the abdomen on coughing, and this, combined with the somewhat sudden appearance of the swelling^'on the thigh, may make it in some respects resemble a hernia. After reachino- the thigh the abscess extends downwards to the outer side of tfie vessels for a short distance till it meets the profunda, and following that vessel it passes behind the femoral artery, which can be felt stretchmg across it in front It then continues its course under the adductor longus, and forms a large cavity at the inner side of the thigh having the gracihs ^ stretched over it internally, the adductor magnus behind it, and the adductor lono-us in front. Processes frequently extend from the mam cavity along the branches of the profunda. The most common of these prolongations is one winding round the neck of the femur with the branches of the internal cu- ^ cumflex, and passing through the interval between the f d^ict^^ m^^^^^^^^^ and the quadratus femoris, becoming superficial immediately behmd tl g^^;^^ tr chanter, between it and the tuberosity of the ischium. The abscess sddo u extends beyond the upper part of the thigh, but it may contmue ts com e downwards, until it reaches the popliteal space, and may even pass some