TUBERCULOUS JOINT DISEASE: TREATMENT. 351 maintained for at least six months, and in a very large proportion it must be prolonc^ed for a year or more. The period of rest must not be shortened, for fear of^'causing stiffness of the joint. Imperfect rest from defective apparatus, by prolonging the disease, is a much more frequent cause of permanent impair- ment of function than perfect rest however long maintained. So long hs there is any tenderness, pain, or marked swelling, rest must be continued. It is hetter to err, if at all, on the side of too prolonged rest, as premature removal of the apparatus will certainly be followed by a relapse of the disease. As in most cases it is uncertain what degree of stiffness will be left after recovery, the joint must be fixed in that position which will leave the most useful limb should ankylosis occur. Thus the knee and hip must be fixed in the extended position, and the elbow flexed to a right angle. The apparatus used will necessarily vary with the joint affected. If it be the hip or knee that is diseased, the best splints are those invented by H. 0. Thomas, of Liverpool, which will be described in a subsequent chapter. If the ankle is diseased, the joint should be fixed in a plaster-of-Paris bandage, and the patient may be allowed to move about, kneeling on a " pin leg," with a trough to support the Kmb below the knee. In the upper limb the affected joint may be fixed by leather or gutta-percha splints or by the plaster or starched bandage. Under certain circumstances the " extension treatment''' may advantageously be combined with fixation of the joint. The object of the extension is to overcome the tonic contraction of the muscles by which the articular surfaces are kept constantly pressing against each other, and not, as some have sup- posed, to cause actual separation of the surfaces. Cheyne believes that the muscular contractions are most marked when the bones are affected, and that therefore in these cases extension is most useful. As soon as the muscles have become relaxed further extension is useless, and may indeed be harmful by stretching the inflamed ligaments. The extension is best carried out by attaching a weight to the limb on the distal side of the diseased joint by means of a cord running over a pulley. It is most useful in the hip and knee, and a weight of four pounds or less is usually sufficient. When the patient is suffering from an exacerbation of the disease, with acute suffering on the slightest movement and starting pains at night, nothing Avill give such immediate relief as a well-applied weight extension apparatus. It is especially useful when the joint has become flexed or otherwise displaced, so as to make the immediate apphcation of a rigid apparatus unadvisable. Under the ex- tension treatment the acute symptoms usually subside before long, when an ordinary fixing apparatus may be applied. As accessories to the essential treatment by rest, Compression and Counter- irritation have frequently been employed. Compression may be carried out by means of bandages, strapping or splints, but it is very doubtful if it produces any real effect in the early stages of the disease. Counter-irritation by means of repeated blisters was formerly much employed, but the good it does, if any, is not enough to compensate for the pain it occasions. In some cases the actual cautery does seem to be of essential service. The indications for its use are severe starting pains, especially at night, occurring in a case of chronic disease in the adult, without any evidence of suppuration having taken place in the joint. It must be applied as described at p. 341, and is often followed by immediate relief of the symptoms. Leeches are occasionally useful in relievino- pain during an acute exacerbation of the disease from want of rest, but thev