640 DISEASES OF THE ANTRUM AND UPPER J A W. to cut it through vei'Lically. II" at this stayo the superior maxillary nerve is seen, it must be cut through. The parts of the pterygoid muscles attached to the portions of the pterygoid plates that are removed can be toru through with a little help from the scalpel or scissors. If the bone is too much broken up by the tumour to be held by tiie lion-forceps, it can usually be drawn forwards with the fingers. As soon as the bone comes out, a dry sponge mw&i be forced into the cavity to arrest hemorrhage, while the mouth and fauces are cleared of blood, and the patient, who at this stage has often parcly regained consciousness, is again brought under the iufluence of the anassthetic. HEemorrhage from the terminal branches of the internal maxillary must then be arrested by the actual cautery, or, if possible, by ligature. When all bleeding has ceased, the whole cavity must be carefully examined, and any remaining fragments of the growth must be removed either with scissors or with Paquelin's cautery. If the whole growth is undoubtedly removed, the cavity is then touched with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to care being taken that none of the fluid passes down the throat. It should then be sprinkled Avith iodoform in crystals, and the cheek flap laid down. If there is any doubt about the complete removal of the growth, Heath recommends that some strips of lint spread with chloride of zinc paste should be laid in the cavity. Some pieces of dry lint may be placed over these to prevent any of the paste'finding its way into the throat. The flap must be retained in situ by strong metallic sutures or hare-lip pins through the lip, and by finer sutures of catgut, horse-hair, or silk, along the other lines of incision. However much the skin may have been scratched and thinned, none should be removed unless it has been actually infiltrated by the tumour. The after-treatment consists in syringing the cavity out daily with Condy's fluid or sanitas aud water, and sprinkling the raw surface with a little iodoform by means of a camel's-hair pencil. There is nothing so efficient as iodoform in the prevention of decomposition in these cases, and by its use the danger of septic poisoning or septic pneumonia is greatly diminished. After cicatrization is complete, the patient is fitted with a proper obturator, and the deformity resulting is far less than might have been anticipated. Results.—The result of operations for the removal of the upper jaw is very satisfactory, so far as the operation itself is concerned. Though most serious, the operation is not very dangerous. Of 17 consecutive cases collected by Hutchinson as having been practised in the London hospitals, it was successful in 14 ; and of 16 cases (10 of total and 6 of partial removal) done by Esmarcb, 13 were successful (viz., 8 of the former and 5 of the latter). So far as recur- rence of the disease is concerned, all will depend on the nature of the tumour, and the extent of the operation. If the disease be malignant, speedy recurrence will certainly ensue if partial excision or scooping be practised. Notlnng, indeed, can be more disastrous than the result of partial operations m these cases. Even though the whole maxilla be excised, the incisions bemg earned wide of the disease, recurrence is the almost invariable rule, though the more complete operation secures longer immunity. The liability to recurrence is remarkable in these cases, when we consider how isolated the upper jaw is, being bounded on three sides by the cavities of the mouth, nose, and orbit, and how completely it can be excised. It is, I beheve, mainly due to two causes-early implication of the soft parts, and extension of the misciiier through the fissures and sinuses behind the bone. These recurrent malignant