STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. 304 of the epiphyses, by which the whole body is stunted. Muscular develop- ment is, however, often good, and the patient may eventually become sufficiently powerful, tlie previously soft bones becoming unusually dense. Rickets infinitely rarely causes death directly, but by impairing the power of coughing it indirectly causes the fatal result in a considerable proportion of cases of bronchitis in children. Pathology.—Beyond the fact that the red corpuscles have been found deficient in number, examination of the blood has thrown but little light on the disease. The nature of the enlargements of the liver and spleen is somewhat doubtful and requires further investigation. In the bones the essential features of the morbid process are, first, an exaggeration of the processes immediately preparatory to the development of true bone ; secondly, an imperfect conversion of this preparatory tissue into true bone ; and thirdly, a great irregu- larity of the whole process. In rickets there is a growth of soft bone, but no softening of healthy bone. Such osseous tissue as has been developed before the disease commenced remains unchanged, unless absorbed in the process of the formation of the medullary canal. The pathological appearances are best studied in a longitudinal section of a long bone. In normal ossification a thin bluish line is seen between the unaltered cartilage and the newly-formed bone ; in this the proHfera- tion of the cartilage-corpuscles is taking place preliminary to the formation of bone. In rickets this line is much thicker than natural, and irregular processes project from it into the cartilage of the epiphyses. The process is wanting in the regularity observed in normal ossification. The proliferating cartilage-cells are heaped irregularly together, and patches in which calcification of the matrix is taking place, are met with, scattered here and there. The vascular medullary spaces also which normally penetrate in an even line into the proliferating layer of cartilage show the same want of regularity in their development. Some win be found projecting an eighth of an inch or more in advance of the others into the unaltered cartilage. These spaces are lined, as in normal bone, with osteoblasts and bone is foimed f?om them, but ihe osseous tissue thus produced is softer than natural and cartilage-cdls unaltered, or merely calcified, may be ^o-d embe^^^^^^^^ Beneath the periosteum, especially at the line of junction o the epiphy es with the shaft a thick layer of reddish, vascular, spongy bone is found, r croscop c^^^^^^^^^ sl^ows that the osteoblastic layer beneath the p^- el is g^-eatly increased in thickness ; the osteoblasts are "umerou but tli^ osteogeic fibres between them are imperfectly developed, and hme salte Fig. 524.—Longitudinal section of a rickety femur. A tliin layer of solid bone formed before the disease began, is seen surrounding the medulla. This has fractured about the middle of the shaft as the soft new bone has bent.