DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 74. the nooses, and tyin^^- together the contiguous ends of the ligatures until the whole of the growth is encircled and strangled by them. In doing this, a few precautions are necessary : thus, tlie first nasvus needle should be passed'across the tumour unarmed (Pig. 428), and used to raise up the growth somewhat from the subjacent parts. The second needle, armed as represented in the diagram (Fig. 428), carrying the whip-cord ligature by means of a piece of suture silk, should be passed across the tumour in the opposite direction to, but underneath, the first needle ; the armed needle being withdrawn, the ligature is carried across ; and the first one, having been armed in the same way, carries its noose through the tumour as it is drawn out. The two nooses having then been cut, an assistant must seize, but not draw upon, six of the ligature ends ; the Surgeon next, having divided the intervening bridge of skin, ties rather tightly, in a reef-knot, the two ends that are left hanging Fig. 428.—Diagram of the Application of Na;vus neeclle.s. out; as soon as he has done this, he proceeds to the next two, and so on to the last (^Fig. 429). When he ties these, he must do so with all his force, especially if the tumour be large, as by drawing on them he tightens all the other nooses, and drags the knots towards the centre of the growth, which is thus eflfectually strangled. He then cuts ofP the tails of the ligature. After the tumour has sloughed away, which happens in a few days, if it be properly and tightly strangled, the wound is treated on ordinary principles. If the nsevus be altogether subcutaneous, the skin covering it should not be sacrificed, but, being divided by a crucial incision, may be turned down in four flaps, and the hgature then tied as directed. In some cases, the nsevus is so flat and elongated that the application of the quadruple ligature, as above described, cannot include the whole of it. In these circumstances, I have successfully employed the foUowing method in a great number of instances. A long triangular needle is threaded on the middle of a piece of whip-cord about three yards in length ; one half of this is stained black with ink, the other half is left uncoloured. The needle is