92 DISEASES OF ARTERIES. a doubt that It causes considerable obstruction to the circulation, a fact which IS proved by the hypertrophy of the heart that accorapanieB the disease and the evidence of increased arterial tension as indicated Ijv the sphygmogi-aph.—The granular contracted kidney and the general va^cula,' changes assocuited with it are very commonly the result of (jout, so much so that this form of Bright's disease is often termed the "gouty kidney" Gout IS usually the result of an abuse of alcoholic stimulants, and thus hdhitmil alcoholic excess comes indirectly to be an important cause of chroiii<- endarteritis. The influence of syphilis in the causation of atheroma is a more doubtful point. Aitken attaches great importance to it. The effect of syphilis in causing disease of the smaller arteries, and fibroid induration of organs and tissues has already been pointed out (see Syphilis, Vol. I.), and it is evident that these changes would tend to obstruct the circulation and thus caui-e increased arterial tension. Whether it acts more directly as a cause of atheroma is uncertain. The most important predisposing cause of chronic endarteritis is old r/f/, . After a certain period of life the arteries in common with other tissues bc( impaired in structure. The impairment manifests itself chiefly by a diminution in the normal elasticity of the coats, so that they become less capable of with- standing any strain to which they may be subjected. So frequent, and indeeil constant, are these transformations of the arterial coats during the dechne of life, that they may be considered the natural result of the diminution of the nutrient activity consequent upon advance in years. Gmelin found that there is a progressive increase in the earthy matters contained in the coats of healthy arteries as the individual advances in life. Thus he ascertained that the ash of the arteries of a newly-born child yields 0'86 per cent, of phosphate of lime : the healthy arteries of an adult 1-25 ; and those of an old man 2'77 of the same salt ; whilst the calcified arteries of an aged man contain 4'01. There is no precise period of life at which these changes set in ; old age is a relative term, and, as soon as the system has passed its full maturity, in what- ever year of life this may happen, there is a tendency for these degenerative changes to take place. The tendency to early degeneration of arteries is frequently hereditary. Effects of Chronic Endarteritis.—As a consequence of the loss of elas- ticity resulting from the chronic inflammatory and degenerative changes in the coats of the artery, it usually yields more or less before the distending force of the heart. This change is most marked in the aorta and its primary divisions, but is occasionally seen in the femoral and brachial arteries. The dilatation may be regular, or pouch-like projections may form here and there. At the same time the vessel is often somewhat elongated so as to assume a tortuous form. It is in consequence of these changes that the name arteritis deformans was given to this disease by Yirchow. The interior of the dilated vessel is rough and irregular in consequence of the projection of the athero- matous patches ; when softening has taken place, *' atheromatous ulcers " may be scattered here and there over the surface, and in other cases it may be paved with closely-set calcareous plates. When the dilatation reaches a certain degree and is limited to a definite area, the condition is described as a fusi- form aneurism, the distinction between that and simple dilatation being only one of degree (see Aneurism).