296 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. its interior. Should this haemorrhage be at all troublesome, elevation of the limb and pressure will always arrest it without difficulty. In the subsequent treatment the chief trouble arises from the accumulation of discharges in the cavity from which the bone has been removed, where they are prone to become excessively foul. To prevent this the cavity should be washed out with chloride of zinc solution (gr. xl. to ^j.) immediately after the operation, and some crystalline iodoform sprinkled in it. It may then be dressed with salicylic or iodoform wool. In this way it can often very soon be brought into a condition to require dressing only about once a week. If these dressings are not at hand, carbolic oil, terebene and oil, or glycerine and carbolic axiid, may be applied, and the wound well syringed with Condy's fluid. If the se- questrum have been a long one, and have involved the greater part of the shaft of the bone, it may happen that the new case has not sufficient strength to maintain the limb of its proper length and shape, and that it will bend or break under the action of the forces and weight to which it is subjected. In order to prevent this accident, it will be necessaiy to put it up in light splints, or in a starched bandage. After the removal of the dead bone, the sinuses will speedily close, and the hmb eventually regain its normal size and shape. Amputation.—If the necrosed bone be so situated that it cannot be removed, occupying too great an extent and continuing to be firmly fixed ; and if at the same time the patient's health have been lowered by constant discharge, and symptoms of hectic come on ; or if the limb have generally been greatly disorganized by the morbid processes going on in it, recourse must be had to amputation as a last resource. It is especially in the lower third of the thigh- bone that these severe forms of necrosis necessitating amputation of the limb occur. When necrosis affects the flat posterior surface of this bone above the condyles, a special source of danger occurs in the possibility of the sequestrum causing ulceration or wound of the popliteal artery. In cases of this kmd, suddenly fatal haemorrhage might occur. Should the hemorrhage, though abundant, not be fatal, what course should the Surgeon adopt in such cases ? Should he attempt to hgature the vessel, or should he amputate the hmb ? _The line of practice must, I think, be detemined by the condition of the limb itself and by the state of the patient's health. If both these be tolerably good, the limb not too much disorganized, and the powers of the system not too much reduced by hectic, an attempt might be made, by shtting up the smuses, to expose and secure the popliteal artery at the seat of injury m it, and, by liga- turing it, to save hfe and limb. But should this attempt fail, as I have known happen, or should it not bethought prudent to make it, owing to the low stat^ of the patient's strength, or the disorganized condition of the limb, amputation must be done without delay. Necrosis of the tibia requiring amputation is rarely met with, except as the result of bad compound fractures or of other serious injuries. In acute necrosis of the lower end of the thigh, or of the shaft of the tibia involving the contiguous joints, and attended witu deep ana extensive abscess of the limb, amputation is imperative. Resection of the whole of the necrosed bone may advantageously be per- formed in such cases as those of the metacarpal and metatarsal bones or in those of the forearm or leg, where sufficient stability of hmb is secured bj the remaining bone or bones to leave a useful member. The diseased bone may be thus removed in necrosis of the ungual phalanx occurring from whitlow,