77° DISEASES OF THE BREAST ACUTE INFLAMMATION OP THE BREAST. hnf^l.?^ Inflammation of the Breast may take place at any time oflif. but the most common periods are within a few days of birth at pul ertv \ cWg lactation in the adult especially in feeble aid an.mic w m " I. fl^^^^ m. tion may affect any one of the parts of which the breast is compo^d a^H may be limi ed to this : thus, it may take place in the nipple • iHhe s'l n taneous areolar tissue lying between the skin and the gEd^ in the i Itself ; or in that extensive plane of areolar tissue upon which th ,1 nd • s and which intervenes between it and the pectoral muscle. But, althou.i i ' flammation commonly affects these different parts, in many case the vhde J he breast appeai-s to be involved, and no distinct implication of any specia tissue can be made out. P Inflammation of the Nipple and Areola.-When the nipple and areola are inflamed these parts become conical, red, and swollen, v^-ith much rZ owing to the density of the subcutaneous tissue in this situation. This atfec tion, "the cracked nipple" of nurses, usually occurs at an early period of lactation m dehcate women, and especially with the iirst child. It commences m the follicles of the part, being accompanied by superficial ulceration abrasion, and fissures, with oozing of a small quantity of thin sero-puriform fluid. There is great pam during suckling, and usually a good deal of con- stitutional irritation. In wet-nurses the possibility of the occurrence of a primary syphilitic sore communicated by an infant sufl'ering from the con- genital form of the disease must always be borne in mind. The Treatmmit of sore nipple should in the first instance consist in strict attention to cleanliness. After each suckling the nipple should be sponcred with boric acid lotion and carefully dried, and during the act protected ^ith an mdia-rubber shield. If the nipple be actually fissured or ulcerated, the child must be taken from the affected breast and the milk drawn off with a breast pump. Locally, the part may be painted once or twice a day with carbolic acid lotion (1 in 20), or a solution of nitrate of silver (one grain to the ounce), and then dried and covered with flexible collodion. A weak lead and spirit lotion is often useful, and in the earliest stages a dusting powder of oxide of zinc and starch may be used. If actual ulceration be present, or deep fissures have formed, the application of the solid nitrate of silver, although painful, will be found the most effectual treatment. The immediate treatment of a sore nii3ple is most important, for if neglected it is not unfrequently followed by abscess of the breast. Abscess of the Areola not unfrequently occurs in nursing women, and is not uncommonly the result of a sore nipple. The abscess is usually very circumscribed, and shows little tendency to spread. The Treatment should consist in endeavouring to prevent suppuration by the application of glycerine of belladonna and hot fomentations. As soon as fluctuation is detected the abscess must be opened, care being taken that the cut be made from the centre of the nipple towards the circumference of the areola, so as not to divide the lacteal ducts.