NJECHOSI^ OF THE JAW. 625 hnracters of squamous carcinoma. It is distinguished from myeloid sarcoma rUst^t st a^ts early ulceration, the everted edge of the ulcei", and its : Xou n lymphatic glands become enlarged. In the lower jaw, when the ":wt^pen:trLs the compact bone, it extends widely m the cancellous [issue In the upper jaw it may invade the antrum, and completely fill that cavity. The treatment is to remove the oTOwth freely with a considerable portion of the bone on each side of it. In the upper jaw, if the growth fills the antrum, it may be necessary to remove the whole or a o-reat part of the upper maxilla. Necrosis of the Jaw may result from many different causes It is frequently due to alveolar abscess, when all deorees are met with, from separation of a small sequestrum from the wall of an alveolus to extensive necrosis of the body of the jaw. It may also be the result of different varieties of ulceration in the mouth, salivation by mercury, syphilis, exposure to the fumes of phosphorus, or injury. A ^^^^-^^ variety, spoken of as " exanthematous necrosis is not very Gum. uncommon in the course of the acute specific fevers, having been seen after scarlet fever, measles, typhoid fever, and small-pox. Necrosis sometimes occurs without any assignable cause. In this way I have seen the whole of the alveolar process of the upper jaw exfoliate in a young lady, other- wise perfectly healthy ; and I have several times had occasion to remove large portions of the lower jaw—in one case more than half of the bone—lor necrosis that could not be referred to any of the causes mentioned above. The disease begins with deeply seated pain resembling severe toothache, which nothing will allay ; the gums become swollen ; the teeth are loosened, and eventually drop out. Before they do so, however, pus usually wells up through the alveoli. Abscesses form inside the mouth, and under the angles of the jaw, having sinuses through which bare bone is reached by the probe. The general health suff'ers greatly, doubtless in consequence of the patient swallowing some of the pus from the dead bone. Necrosis of the jaws, arising from inhalation of the fumes of phosphorus during.the manufacture of lucifer matches, first noticed by Lorinser of Yienna, has been especially described by Von Bibra and Qeist, who had abundant opportunities of observing the disease at the large manufactories at Nuremberg. This Lucifer Match disease was some years ago very frequent, but, in con- sequence of the adoption of precautionary measures, is now much more rarely met with. It consists in necrosis of the jaws, and is attended with the symptoms above described, but in a more severe degree and an acute form. The affected bone undergoes a remarkable change, assuming the porous aspect and grey colour of dirty pumice-stone. Both jaws are equally liable to be aff'ected, but commonly one only at a time is diseased ; the whole of the bone may die and be separated. Thus of 51 cases observed by Yon Bibra, both jaws were affected in five instances only—the upper alone in 21 cases, the lower in 25. According to Langenbeck, the local disease is preceded in many instances by general symptoms of phosphorus poisoning ; and there is a con- siderable amount of bony deposit from periostitis, enclosing the necrosed bone. It has been believed that workmen having sound teeth arc not easily if at all VOL. II. S S