DISEASES- OF THE NECK. respiration. The largest I have seen was of the size of an orange. The skin 6 [o 0 mucous flaid A fine probe, can usually be passed a considerable distance upwards towards tbe byoid bone, and, in rare cases, can be made to enter the pharynx. Sometimes the external orifice is marked by a "cervical auricle" which consists of a small prominence of skin containing cartik.re in its centre. As these fiBtuhi3 cause no inconveuience they are better lef^alone as It IS usually impossible to close the whole track; obliteration of the orifice would probably be followed by the dilatation of the remainder into a cyst Meduin cerriral/iMe are very rare. Their mode of origin probably differs but the two structures in connexion with which they appear to arise are the • sinus precervicahs," a blind recess from the front of the pharynx connected with the development of the thymus gland, and the " thyreo-glossal duct" or " canal of His " which leads downwards from the foramen cscum^of the tongue behind the hyoid bone and is concerned with the development of the thyroid body. These fistula3 are not necessarily present at birth but may arise secondarily as the result of suppuration around the blind extremity of the unobliterated duct. In several cases the lower part of a persistent thyreo- hyoid duct has been dissected up to the hyoid bone and the part above this destroyed with the galvano-cautery. Cystic Tumours in the Neck.—Six varieties of cysts are met with in the neck : 1, the congenital multilocular cysts or cystic hygroma ; 2, unilocular serous cysts or hydrocele of the neck ; 3, blood-cysts; 4, dermoid cysts ; 5, bursal cysts ; and 6, true hydatid cysts. 1. The Congenital Multilocular Cysts or Cystic Hygromata are often situated in the middle line in the subcutaneous tissue in front of the trachea, where they may attain a good size. Their supposed origin and their structure have already been described (Vol. I., p. 1029). If not too large or too deeply attached they may be removed. In many cases, however, no operative inter- ference is possible, as in the case represented in Fig. 681, but not uncommonly the tumour gradually diminishes in size, sometimes after repeated attacks of inflammation. 2. The Unilocular Serous Cyst or Hydrocele of the Neck is of some- what doubtful origin, but it is usually supposed to arise in a space left by the imperfect closure of a branchial cleft. These tumours were accurately described by Maunoir and B. Phillips. They may be congenital, but more commonly appear in children or in early adult life. The cyst is usually situated in the posterior inferior triangle, but has also been met with in front of the sterno-mastoid between that muscle and the jaw, forming a rounded tumour, smooth, tense, and elastic, and filled with a yellow or chocolate-coloured serous fluid. It may attain so large a size as to interfere with deglutition and covering this tumour is not discoloured, and is in some cases of natural thick- ness, in others thin and expanded, so as to give a bladder-like appearance to the growth. The Treatment of this tumour consists in tapping, when complete collapse Fig. 681.—Cystic Hygroma of Neck.