I202 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. fully, is that, althouf>h a patient can be put into a position in which his stricture need never be a source of danger to him if he occasionally passes an instrument he cannot be really cured—that is to say, by no means of treatment can a strictured urethra be restored to its normal condition. Every patient, there- fore, who has once suffered from a definite organic stricture, should continue for the rest of his life to pass a full-sized instrument not less often than once a month ; otherwise, gradual contraction is almost certain to take place, and the whole treatment will have to be commenced again. COMPLICATIONS AND RESULTS OF STRICTURE. Retention of Urine has already been several times described as arising from different causes. Thus, in boys, it arises from the impaction of a calculus in the urethra ; in girls it is usually hysterical; in old men it is almost invariably the consequence of atony of the bladder or enlarged prostate, alone or combined. In those of middle age, stricture of the urethra is the cause in the vast majority of cases. Ketention of urine has a tendency to occur in all tight strictures from the gradual and progressive contraction of the canal. It most usually, however, takes place in consequence of a congestive and spasmodic condition being superadded to the organic constriction. It commonly happens that a patient having a moderately tight organic stricture commits an excess, or becomes exposed to cold and wet, and thus gets such a congested condition superadded, that the urine will not pass at all, or only in such small quantity, ) and with so much pain and straining, that the bladder cannot be completely | emptied. In these cases the retention always eventually becomes complete ; • the bladder speedily fills, and rises above the pubes; there is much distress and constitutional disturbance ; and, if relief be not afforded, the distended portion of the urethra behind the stricture will ultimately give way, and extravasation of urine ensue. In these circumstances it becomes imperatively necessary to empty the patient's bladder as speedily as possible. The Treatment varies with the severity of the symptoms and irritabihty of the patient. If the retention have not continued very long, and if the patient be not very irritable, an endeavour may be made at once to give relief ; by passing a small catheter into the bladder. In this the Surgeon may often . succeed more readily than might have been expected, the stricture frequently \ yielding before an instrument more easily when there is retention, than when this condition does not exist. Even if the catheter do not enter the bladdtT. its point or that of a catgut bougie merely being introduced well into the stricture, it will generally happen, as Brodie has pointed out, that, on the withdrawal of the instrument, the urine will follow in a full stream ; but if a sufficiently small catheter be used (in many cases not larger than Xo. \ is admissible), the instrument may usually be made fairly to enter the bladder.-f If the patient be very irritable it is better, before attempting the introduction of the instrument, to give him an enema of a drachm of laudanum in about two ounces of starch, and to put him in a warm hip-bath, Avhen perhaps he may pass water, but if he does not the introduction of the catheter may be ! attempted, and will generally succeed. Should it still fail, the effect of an ansBsthetic should be tried, when it almost invariably may be made to pass without the employment of any great or dangerous degree of force. There are no cases in surgery in which anaesthesia is of more value than in these;