DISJUSBS OF THE PROSTATE. 1144 by p ojectmg auainst he entrance to this winding channel, and falling over it Ike a valve whenever the patient attempts to pass nrine, Is in Fig. lu ll this condition no unne is passed until by accumulation within the bladder the neck has become so stre ched that the valve-like obstruction no longer c ole the orifice. Then a small quantity of urine is expelled ; the neck of the bladdt CO lapses, and befoi^^ cavity is completely emptied, the orifice is bloeS bj the projecting middle lobe, and the flow ceases. Thus a certain amount of uiine IS always retained, which is commonly termed the " residual urine," and none escapes till the bladder is in'a state of considerable tension. As the middle lobe increases in size, a greater degree of stretching is necessary before urine can escape. Under this constant tension the bladder slowly yields and be- comes dilated, its walls are thickened by fibroid tissue, and it gradually becomes completely "atonic," losing all active power of contraction. At last a condi- tion is reached in which urine flows only when the bladder is greatly distended, and the escape of a few drops is sufficient tq render the obstruction complete, and thus a condition of almost constant dribbling is established. This forms the most typical variety of prostatic obstruction. Less commonly, the obstacle to the pas- sage of urine is of such a nature that it can be forced by increased pressure, and we then find the muscular coat of the bladder hypertrophied, as in stricture o the urethra. In still more rare cases the middle lobe lies between the enlarged lateral lobes, thus propping the neck of the bladder open, and then true incon- tinence may occur with constant dribbling of urine. The effect on the kidney will vary according to circumstances. If the bladder is in a constant state of over-distension, a similar increased tension will occur ill the ureters, as it is evident that increased force will be required to drive the urine through their orifices. We consequently find all the signs of increased tension already described (p. 994) ; dilated ureters and pelves, absorption of the pyramids, chronic interstitial nephritis, itc. (Fig. 004). Finally, should decomposition occur in the urine retained in the bladdei'. it may extend through the orifice of the ureter to the kidney; and in this way a large proportion of patients suffering from prostatic disease die of septic suppurative nephritis. Moral Effects of Enlarged Prostate.—The irritation of a congei and enlarged prostate will excite libidinous ideas in the aged, which may lead to the perpetration of acts of indecency—such as exposure of the person, indecent assaults on children, or to a general deterioration of the moral tone. Pig. 004.—Results of oiihiiged Prostate: Bladder enlarged; Ureters dilated; Chronic Disease of Kidneys. e