DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. "34 phatic deposit, and sometimes a phosphatic calculus may form in the diseased bladder, and thus add greatly to the intense pain that usually attends this affection. Symptoms.—Sarcoma of the bladder is so rare that in speakinj? of the symptoms of malignant tumours the remarks will have reference chiefly |. carcinoma. Sarcoma has been met with in childhood ; it is then usually (/, rapid growth, and quickly proves fatal. Carcinoma is rarely met with befoK forty, and is more common in men than in women. The symptoms it gives r'm to are intense dysuria, with discharge of blood and viscid mucus, in whidi fragments of the tumour may be found. No conclusion of any kind can h- drawn from single cells ; it is only when a distinct group of cells is found, possibly attached to a portion of stroma, that any opinion can be formed as b, their source. In a case under the care of Berkeley Hill, the nest-like arrange - ment of the epithelial cells was recognized in some fragments passed in the urine. Thompson states that the diagnosis of cancer from simple tumoui's may be made by the age of the patient, and by the fact that pain and frequenc\ of micturition appear early, often before the blood. In simple tumours, blood is the first symptom, preceding pain, often by many months. The rapid pro- gress of the disease, and the intensity of the patient's suflFerings, usually differ widely from the slow progress and slight discomfort caused by simple tumours during the early period of their development. The symptoms will, however, be found to differ according to the varying tendency of the tumour to infiltrate the wall of the bladder. Fenwick has shown that in the case of the more superficial slowly-growing varieties of carcinoma the early symptoms may closely resemble those of a papilloma ; the bleeding being unaccompanied by pain, but usually being more profuse than that due to a simple growth. Cancer of the bladder frequently causes a tumour which can be felt from the rectum : simple tumours practically never do, and for this reason Thompson lays down the law that if the tumour can be felt from the rectum it is not a case to operate on except for the purpose of relieving suffering by periuEeal drainage. Death usually occurs from exhaustion and the spread of septic inflammation to the kidneys. When secondary to rectal cancer, a communication will usually have been established between the two cavities, through which flatus and fseces pass into the bladder, and thus greatly aggravate the patient's sufferings. The Treatment of cancer of the bladder must necessarily be merely palliative in all but exceptional cases. Morphia hypodermically administered, the frequent use of antiseptic injections, possibly drainage of the bladder through a median periuEeal section, and, in those cases that are secondary to rectal cancer, colotomy, constitute the main elements of the treatment. In some cases of superficial papillary carcinoma long freedom from recurrence has followed operation ; the surface of the growth being removed with forceps and the base with scissors or a lance-pointed knife. The possibility of remov- ing a portion of the wall of the bladder has been demonstrated by numerou" experiments on animals, and by operations on the human subject. In 188 Sonnenburg, of Berlin, removed two-thirds of the bladder wall, opening th peritoneum in so doing. He sutured the peritoneum accurately, but was unable to close the walls of the bladder, and yet the woman survived one month, dying of exhaustion. In the same year, Antal, of Buda Pesth, success- fully removed about one-third of the bladder without wounding the peritoneum.