io6o URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. exploration has failed to elicit the actual presence of the stone, all further proceedings must be deferred to another opportunity. The stone may escane detection m three ways : 1. It may have been passed by the urethra, between the first examination and the time fixed for the operation. A small calcuiug especially if spindle-shaped, may give a very distinct click against the sound' and yet be not too large to pass through the urethra. 2. The stone may have become encysted. 3. It may have become enveloped in folds of the mucous membrane of the collapsed bladder, and so may escape contact with the sound' All these events, except the presence of an encysted calculus, are more likely to happen in children than in the adult, and it is in them that, for want of attention to these precautions, the unfortunate accident of cutting into the bladder and finding no stone has most frequently occurred. 2. Difficulty in Entering the Bladder.—This is rarely experienced in adults. It may, however, arise in consequence of the Surgeon neglecting to keep the point of the knife well lodged in the groove of the staff, and thus letting it slip between the rectum and the bladder ; the tissue of which, being broken up, leaves a kind of cavity that he mistakes for the interior of the bladder. If the perineum be very deep and the prostate enlarged, he may also experience some diffi- culty in reaching the bladder ; but he can scarcely fail to do so if he push the knife well on the groove of the staflf", and dilate the incision in the prostate with a blunt gorget, if his finger fail to reach the cavity beyond it. Perhaps the most serious obstacle to entering the bladder consists in the presence ^ , „ of large tumours in the prostate. The com- Fig. 870.—Tumour of Prostate, natural U^„„f,-^„ ^4? j • size.removed during Lateral Lithotomy oiuation ot a deep pennffium, an enlarged from a man aged 64. ' prostate, and a tumour, certainly constitutes a formidable series of obstacles. In these cases, the finger when slipped along the staff does not enter the bladder, but becomes involved in the smooth and irregular sinuosities that wind between the prostatic tumours (Fig. 870). In such cases it is well to practise the ma,noeuvre that has already been described : viz., of using the staff as a guide into the bladder, slipping the forceps along the side and concavity of this instrument before it is withdrawn. In loys, great and sometimes insuperable diflEiculty has been experienced in reaching the bladder. This difliculty arises in consequence of the small size of the urethra, the mobility of the bladder, and the ready lacerabihty of the tissues. If, after the groove in the staff has been exposed, care be not taken to insinuate, as it were, the nail into the opening in the urethra thus made, the membranous portion may be torn across; and the neck of tli« bladder, receding before the finger, may easily be pushed away from the surface, so that the Surgeon may fail to reach the cavity of the organ. When the road is once lost in this way, there is the very greatest difficulty in finding it again. The course that should be pursued is, I think, as follows : If the staff have not been withdrawn, the Surgeon must again place the knife in its groove, and carefully push it on towards the neck of the bladder,