RECTO-VESIGAL FISTUL.E. 963 Papilloma or Villous Tumour.-Large papillomata, the papilla of which branch repeatedly, and are covered by columnar epithehum, are occasionally m Uvith in the rectum. They closely resemble carcinoma but are recognized by their slow growth and by their being pedunculated. They cause hsemoi- rhage and some obstruction of the bowel. They can readily be removed by the ecraseur or by ligature, and seldom return. The accompanying figure /Fio- 823) represents a pedunculated mass which was removed from tne rectum of a man by Marshall. Fig. 822 is taken from a portion of the same Adenoma.—This is most commonly met with as the simple polypus of the rectum in young children. The adenomatous polypus is usually single and is attached to the lower part of the rectum by a slender pedicle. Its surface is usually smooth, but it may be lobulated (Fig. 824) or papillary, and may contain cysts. Its structure is that of a tubular adenoma, the glandular spaces, which exactly resemble the crypts of Lieberkiihn, lymg m a fibrous stroma, which may compose the bulk of the growth. In children haemorrhage is the most common symptom, and to this may be added tenesmus and pro- lapse of the bowel. It may give rise to some irritabihty of the bladder and thus simulate stone. Polypi are easily removed by the application of a lio-ature, or by twisting through the pedicle if it be long. Fibroma.—This occurs as the simple fibrous polypus, which is occasionally met with in adults. Ball beheves that these usually arise by gradual changes in an internal pile. They are most common near the anus, and in some cases •are found associated with a small intractable ulcer at the point at which the free end touches the gut. They are best removed by ligature of the pedicle._ Angioma.—A specimen of extensive nsevus of the rectum is preserved m the Museum of University College. The patient, a man aged forty-five, was under the care of A. E. Barker. He had suffered from occasional rectal bleeding since boyhood, and died of copious haemorrhage. BECTAL FISTUL.ffi3. Tistulous openings occasionally occur between the rectum and the bladder in men ; or between this gut and the vagina in women. Recto-Vesical Fistulas are not common, and usually result either from cancerous ulceration, establishing a communication between the rectum and the bladder ; or from a wound of the gut during the operation of lateral lithotomy. In rare cases they arise from tuberculous abscesses in the vesiculse seminales or prostate, opening into the rectum and bladder simultaneously. In these cases the urine escapes per anum in greater or less quantity, occasioning constant irritation or excoriation, with a sort of spurious diarrhoea ; and the wet state in which the patient is kept by the dribbling of urine gives rise to an offensive ammoniacal odour about him. If the communication between the rectum and bladder be cancerous, fseculent matter and flatus pass through the opening, and escape ft-om time to time by the urethra ; perhaps even more abundantly than the urine does per anum. There is this difference, therefore, between the traumatic and cancerous fistulas, viz., that when traumatic the chief escape is from the bladder into the rectum ; when cancerous, of the contents of the rectum into the bladder. It is remarkable how little irrita- tion is often set up by this admixture of fasces with urine in the bladder, 3 Q 2