DIA(;2iOSlS OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 9^1 oach side fills out the flanks, giving the abdomen a barrel-shape. In some cases of strangulation by a band or internal hernia, the abdomen may be irregularly distended, one side or region being more prominent than the rest. Too much importance must not be attached, however, to the form of the abdomen, as it is often deceptive, and especially when the distension is great. In women who have borne children there is always great prominence in the umbilical and hypogastric regions, whatever the cause of the distension may be. Coils of Intestine visible through the abdominal walls may be observed, when the patient is thin, in all forms of obstruction if there is much distension. In Internal strangulation this symptom occurs late if at all. In I 'olvulus of the sigmoid flexure the enormous size of the distended gut does not suggest a coil of intestine. In Impacted gall-stone and Acute intussusception, no coils are visible as a rule. In Stricture of the small intestine, as the gut is already dilated and hypertrophied, the coils readily become visible should obstruction occur. It is in Chronic obstruction from stricture of the great intestine, and in chronic intussusception, that the distended coils of small intestine are usually most distinctly visible. Peristalsis of visible coils is most marked in Chronic ohstructions in the great intestine. It may be taken as evidence that the gut is not paralysed by acute peritonitis ; but beyond this it is of no great value. (b.) Percussion.—By percussion we try to ascertain the condition of the <_;olon. In the normal condition the different notes given by the stomach, colon, and small intestine, usually enable us to determine their positions, but in the distended abdomen the evidence thus obtained is often fallacious. The stomach is always concealed by the distended intestines. If the small intes- tines are much distended their note becomes indistinguishable from that of the colon. Extreme superficial tympanitic resonance, uniform in note and con- cealing the liver dulness, with a very pointed abdomen, indicates free gas in the peritoneal cavity either from actual or impending perforation. Hyper- resonance in each flank is usually a sign of a distended colon. Dulness in the flanks, disappearing on turning the patient on one side, is usually evidence of fluid, and may indicate that peritonitis is commencing. In a case in University (Jollege Hospital a few years ago, this sign was, however, found to be dependent on a loaded colon with a long meso-colon, which moved out of the flank when the patient was turned to the opposite side. (c.) Manipulation.—By manipulation we estimate the degree of tension and the presence or absence of tenderness or tumour. In Int&rnal strangu- lation it is very rarely that localized swelling or tenderness can be recognised. In Volvulus of the sigmoid flexure tenderness from peritonitis is an early symptom. In Impacted gall-stone an ill-defined hardness may occasionally be recognised, probably below and to the right of the umbilicus. lii fntussusceptio?i, whether acute or chronic, the characteristic sausage-like tumour is usually to be found. In Chronic obstruction from stricture of the great intestine a tumour may be felt in exceptional cases, but much more commonly the results of manipulation are purely negative. In Foical Accumulation the mass can be felt and its putty-like consistence recognised. In all cases as soon as the distension becomes excessive, manipulation is useless. It may in the earlier stages be much facilitated by relaxing the abdominal walls by means of an anaesthetic.