ATHEROMA. 89 to the term " atheroma" being applied to the disease, the products of the softening- of the patch resembling the contents of an atheromatous cyst of the skin. The term is now often incorrectly extended to all stages of chronic endarteritis. When the process reaches the more advanced stages the middle coat is affected, first by chronic inflammation, and subsequently by softening. At the same time considerable thickening of the external coat takes place by the formation of dense fibroid tissue which is not prone to fatty degeneration and softening. Up to this point the fatty patch is covered by the most internal layers of the intima and the endothelium, which are not affected by the chronic inflammatory process, but after complete softening these give way, and the atheromatous fluid is discharged into the circulation, leaving the remains of the patch exposed to the blood-stream. The raw surface thus formed is the so-called ''atheromatous ulcer" (Fig. 437). The delris which enter the circulation are carried on and lodge in the capillaries, but not possessing any irritating properties they give rise to no evil consequences. Although during this process a considerable part of the inner and middle coats is lost, perforation or rupture of the artery rarely takes place, and it is only in exceptional cases that the blood forces its way amongst the coats of the diseased vessel. This is due to the fact that at the margins of the patch the chronic inflammatory process has led to firm matting together of the coats of the artery. At the same time the thickening and induration of the external coat prevent perforation. It is especially opposite the deeper and more eroded atheromatous patches that this consolidation of the external coat takes place. The change, although described as a chronic inflammation, is strictly conservative in character. The new growth of fibroid tissue is not confined to the external coat, but extends to the sheath 0 Lhe vessel, and, by soldering it to the contained artery, greatly adds to the strength of the vascular wall. Although perforation is thus prevented, the new tissue but imperfectly represents the normal structures of the coats of an artery, as it is entirely wanting in elasticity. Consequently it is very apt to yield slowly to the pressure of the blood, and thus lead to the formation of a sacculated aneurism, the mouth of which will correspond to the damaged portion of the wall of the vessel. Complete softening, with the formation of an atheromatous ulcer, is not by any means a necessary consequence of fatty degeneration of the patches resulting from chronic endarteritis. In many cases the new tissue, after degenerating, remains as a firm, yellow, opaque mass, and may undergo no farther change, but most commonly lime salts are deposited in it, and it gradually becomes converted into a hard calcareous plate, over which the superficial layers of the inner coat with the endothelium may remain un- broken. Sometimes, however, these seem to wear away and the calcareous plate comes m direct contact with the blood-stream. This change was tormerly described as " ossification of the arteries;' but it need not be said that no true bone is formed. From the arrangement of the calcareous matter in plates correspondmg to the atheromatous patches in which the lime salts have been deposited, this change has received the name of laminar calczficatton. Microscopic examination of an atheromatous artery in the early stage of the