TREATMENT OF ANKYLOSIS. 363 . any attempt to move the joint by force is usually accompanied by severe pain I with involuntary contraction of the neighbouring muscles, whilst in osseous ankylosis such attempts, unless extremely forcible, are painless. Cases not unli-equently occur in which the rigidity of the structures, muscular and capsular, outside the joint, is so great in the fibrous, and the mobihty of the neighbouring bones and joints so free in the osseous, that it becomes very difficult to decide to what degree the joint is stiflFened. Here the diagnosis may be made by putting the patient under an auEesthetic, when if the ankylosis be fibrous, the joint will be found to yield. Treatment.—The treatment of ankylosis is, in the first instance, of a pre- cautionary natm-e : that is to say, when the Surgeon finds that the establisli- i ment of ankylosis is, as it were, the natural means of cure adopted by Nature in a deeply diseased joint, his. efforts should be directed to taking care that the joint shall become fixed in such a position as will leave the most useful limb to the j)atient. Thus, if it be the hip or knee, the ankylosed joint should be in a straight position ; if it be the elbow, it should be placed at a right angle, and the hand in the mid-state between pronation and supination. When once ankylosis has occurred, the treatment to be adopted will depend partly on the degree of stiffness, whether it be fibrous or osseous ; and partly I on the object to be attained, whether this be merely the restoration of mobility in a part ankylosed in a good position, or the remedying of the deformity occasioned by faulty ankylosis, 1. In attempting to restore the mobility of a joint ankylosed in a good position, as of a straight but stiff knee, the Surgeon may usually succeed, if the ankylosis be only fibrous, (when some degree of movement will always be perceptible in the part) by the employment of passive motion, frictions, and douches, more particularly with warm salt water or the sulphurous mineral springs. In the more obstinate cases, and where the immobility appears to depend, in some degree at least, on fibrous bands stretching across the joint, an attempt might be made to rupture these by forced movement« under an ansesthetic. 2. When fibrous ankylosis has taken place in a faulty position—if, for in- stance, the knee be bent, or the elbow straight—the first thing to be done is to place the limb in such a position that it will be useful. This may most readily be done by putting the patient under the influence of chloroform, and then forcibly flexing or extending the limb as the case may require, when with loud snaps and cracks it will usually come into proper position. Should any of the tendons or bands of fascia near the joint appear to be particularly tense, they may be divided subcutaneously some days before the extension is attempted, or else, if it have been carried as far as the rigid state of the tendons will permit, tenotomy may then be practised, and, an interval of a few days having been allowed to elapse, extension may be completed. The muscular contraction will, however, in many cases, yield to gradual extension by means of weights, and thus render tenotomy unnecessary. Sayre states that when the contracted tendon is stretched to the utmost, if a reflex contraction of the muscle can be felt by the finger pressed upon it, it is better to divide it. If no reflex contraction ensue, stretching alone is sufiicient. The inflam- mation that follows this forcible extension or flexion of the limb, is usually but very trivial ; an evaporating lotion and rest will speedily subdue it. Indeed, it is surprising what an amount of violence may be inflicted on aii