PLASTIC SURCERY OF THE UPS. 664 central groove in the premaxilla the bones were normal. In Clutton's case the median hare-lip was associated with a complete cleft of the palate ; the frajuiim of the lip was divided, one half jjassing to each side of the cleft in tiie premaxilla. Delahaye has recorded a case of mesial iissure of the upper lip with two lateral fissures. Median fissure of the lower lip has been recorded by Nicati and Wolfler. Age for Operation.—The cure of hare-lip can be eft'ected only by a pro- perly conducted operation. In the performance of this, the first point that has to be determined is the age at which it should be done. On this there has been a good deal of difl'erence of opinion. It is now, however, agreed by all Surgeons that the operation should be performed early, before dentitioii commences. During dentition, I think, it is better not to perform the opera- tion ; at all events not during the cutting of the incisor teeth, when there is much local excitement and general irritability of the nervous system. There is no danger in operating in early infancy; on the contrary, very young children, those but a few weeks or months old, bear operations remark- ably well. I have repeatedly operated at these tender ages, not only for hare-lip, but for hernia, the removal of tumours and nsevi, the division of tendons, &c., and have never seen any bad result i'ollow. Besides this, the performance of the opera- tion is easier at a very early age than when the child has reached its first or second year ; when, its intelligence being more developed, it knows Fig. 71(1.—Skeleton of Jaw in what it has to suffcr, and scrcams and struggles Double Hare-lip, and Cleft Palate, ^q^q than a Very youug infant does, whenever it sees the Surgeon, or when he makes an attempt to examine the wound or dressings. After the operation, also, the child will, when young, take the breast without difiiculty. At very early ages, union of the wound takes place with great readiness and solidity; and, as no time has been given for the rest of the features to become distorted, there will not be that permanent flattening and deformity of the face which are apt to continue after the hare-lip is cured, if the operation be deferred to a more advanced age. For these various reasons I agree with Fergusson and Butcher, that the operation had best be performed, if possible, at about the sixth week after birth, or from that to the third month, which may, I think, be con- sidered the time of election. At this time the vitality of the child is good, and the tissues are not so lacerable as at an earlier age. The operation may safely be performed at a much earlier period in single than in double hare- lip ; and the greater the deformity, the more marked the intermaxillary pro- jection, the wiser will it be to defer operation, which becomes increasingly severe with the extent of the deformity. Even in these cases, however, it should not be delayed beyond the third month, as the early removal of the intermaxillary bone, and the pressure of the united lip, tend to narrow the cleft in the palate. Should circumstances require it, however, the oiieration might be done at a much earlier period than that advised above. Thus, at the urgent solicitation of the parents, I have performed it within the fii^t twenty-four hours after birth, and several times during the first week. But in these very early days of life the operation is not without danger ; the vitality