286 INFLAMMATION OF HONE Ai\D ITS' EFFECTS. plains of pain, or snflers from febrile disturbance. A considerable number of ^7,-^^? t" ^''f^^"'^ ''^^ University College Hospital with the ho 1 d w H 1\ P^'^P^^-*^^"'^ the wound has been found completely healed when the second dressing was removed. If the cavity be of very lar^^e ^Z'^T f^7^^^t/l^:«««"'g« ^^^y be necessary. If the materials for this dre£- mg a e not at hand the wound may be dressed with carbolic oil, glycerine and carbolic acid, terebene and oil, or any other efficient antiseptic application. In cases treated in this way the cavity in the bone fills with aseptic blood- clot into which granulation tissue sprouts from the surrounding bone. It has been recommended to pack the cavity with some firmer material wliich may take the place of the blood-clot : for this purpose, Hamilton of Aberdeen has einployed aseptic sponge, and Senn of Chicago has used decalcified bone which has been kept in a 1 in 500 solution of corrosive sublimate in alcohol. It is doubtful, however, whether these materials have any real advantage over aseptic blood-clot. ° Instead of removing the affected bone by means of instruments, Pollock has recommended that it should be dissolved by the application of a strong solu- tion of sulphuric acid. The treatment is carried out as follows : the carious surface or cavity being exposed as before described, a solution of equal parts of strong sulphuric acid and water is applied by means of a glass brush or rod and this may be repeated daily till the whole surface is quite free from diseased bone. In deep cavities a piece of lint soaked in a weaker solution (one part of the acid to five or six of water) may be stufi'ed in and left for two or three days. The slough resulting may in a day or two more be peeled off with forceps and the application repeated if any diseased bone can still be seen. The treatment is said to be eflicacious, and the pain accompanying it is not severe. When tuberculous disease affects the articular ends of the bones, as those that enter into the formation of the elbow or shoulder-joints, it may be so situated as not to admit of removal in the way just indicated, but to require Excision of the diseased articulation ; this operation will be considered in a subsequent Chapter. When a bone is so extensively diseased that neither of the preceding plans can be carried out successfully, it becomes necessary to perform either the Resection of the whole of the bone, if it be of small size, or Amputation of the limb, if of greater magnitude or if the neigh- bouring joints be extensively affected. Thus, for instance, resection of the OS calcis may be required for caries of that bone ; while, if the whole of the tarsus be affected, amputation is the only resource. NECROSIS. Necrosis is not a disease but may be the result of any pathological condition of a bone by which the vitality of a more or less extensive portion is destroyed. Caries may be regarded as a condition closely analogous to ulceration of the soft tissues ; whilst necrosis must be looked upon as identical with gangrene. Whilst caries, however, chiefly affects the cancellous structure, necrosis is met with in the compact tissue of bone, and occurs far more frequently in the shafts than in the articular ends of the long bones. It is, however, an error to suppose that the cancellous structure is exempt from necrosis: thus in the head of the tibia, or in the os calcis, small masses of necrosed bone are not