SPECIAL ANEURISMS, 208 this occurs, adhesion may take place between the sac and tiie pleura, or even the tissue of the adjacent lung ; and the contents of the suppui-ating'sac may be discharged into the pleural cavity or air-tubes, and so coughed up. Of this there are at least two cases on record : one by Bullen, in which the patient recovered ; the other by Gross, in which the patient died from the escape of the contents of the sac into the cavity of the pleura. 3. Division of the phrenic nerve would necessarily, by interfering with tlie respiratory movements, induce a tendency to congestion and inflammation of the lungs ; and, although such an accident must be a very rare one in cases of ligature of the subclavian for axillary aneurism, yet it undoubtedly has occurred, as I have myself witnessed in one case. Suppuration of the Sac is the most common, though not the most fatal, accident after hgature of the subclavian for spontaneous axillary aneurism It was the immediate cause of death in six cases, and occurred in two of the patients that died of inflammation of the chest; it took place in six cases also that recovered : in all, fourteen cases out of forty-five, or nearly one in three,—a much higher proportion than is generally observed in cases of ligature for aneurism. What occasions this greater frequency of suppuration of the sac in axillary aneurisms than in those in other situations ? One important cause ajjpears to be the great laxity of the areolar tissue in the axilla, which allows the tumour, in almost all cases, to increase so rapidly in size as to excite subacute inflammation in the surrounding structures. This may readily become acute and reach the stage of suppuration owing to external violence, to rapid extension of the sac, or to some constitutional affection on the part of the patient. Thus suppuration of the sac is not an uncommon complication of axillary aneurism even when no operation has been performed. When a ligature is applied to the subclavian it is in most cases in close proximity to the sac as the aneurism is commonly seated high in the axilla, and as the loose areolar tissue opened up during the operation in the root of the neck is continuous with that of the axilla, it is evident that should septic suppuration occur in the wound it will readily extend to the already inflamed tissues surrounding the sac. In some cases possibly the sac itself may be damaged during the operation. The statistics collected by Koch show a much greater mortahty in those cases in which the subclavian artery has been tied for spontaneous aneurisms extending above the upper border of the pectoralis minor, than in those below that point. Of 17 of the former 13 were fatal ; of 22 of the latter only 10 died. The period at which suppuration of the sac may be expected to occur in cases of axillary aneurism, after the ligature of the subclavian, must necessarily in a great measure be dependent on the state of the sac at the time of the operation. If inflammation have already been set up around it, it may happen a few days after the artery has been tied ; otherwise the period at which suppuration may most probably be expected is between the first and second month. The period at which suppuration and rupture of the sac take place does not influence the probable termination of the case to any material extent, as, in the cases that proved fatal, death occurred at various periods between the seventh day and the second month : in Aston Key's case, on the ninth day ; in Mayo's, on the twelfth ; in Belardini's and Grfife's, at the end of the first month ; in Eigaud's, at the sixth week ; in B. Cooper's, in the