148 ANEURISM. effect has been produced the needles may be withdrawn, and the small punctures closed with lint and collodion. The negative needle will be found unaltered, while the positive will be corroded in direct proportion to the amount of electrolytic action that has taken place. In order to prevent this corrosion of the positive needle, it has been suggested by John Duncan of Edinburgh that platinum should be used instead of steel. There is no evidence, however, that the salts of iron produced give rise to any particular danger ; in fact, it is probable that they aid considerably in the formation of fehe lirm coagulum surrounding the needle. The battery used in the operation is of considerable importance. It has been pointed out by Ciniselli that a current of high tension and somewhat low intensity is less likely to cause the production of undue heat during the operation, and is consequently less prone to lead to inflammation and suppuration of the sac. A battery composed of a large number of small elements is tlierefore superior to one of a few large elements. Some operators, and especially Bastian, have advocated the introduction of the positive pole only, the negative being attached to a sponge or metal plate laid on the skin near the aneurism. The only objection to this mode of treatment is the excessively small effect produced. The electrolytic action which takes place is directly proportional to the intensity of the current ; and by the inclusion of a considerable mass of the tissues of the patient in the circuit, the resistance is so greatly increased that electrolysis is reduced to a scarcely appreciable amount, the positive needle appearing almost unchanged after the operation. Others, again, have introduced the negative needle only ; as, however, the coagulum formed at the negative pole is soft and frothy, but little good can be expected from this mode of operating. Julius Althaus, who has superintended the operation in five cases, is strongly of opinion that " the most effective application of the current is that where both poles are inserted into the sac." Ciniselli operated in this way, and Duncan and Fraser, to whom we are indebted for many important observations on galvano-puncture and for the invention of reliable insulated needles, support the same view. The operation is accompanied by but little pain, and it is only occasionally that chloroform is needed. The effect of a single operation is seldom sufficient to cause any marked improvement in the condition of the patient, and it usually requires to be repeated several times. The clot formed as the result of galvano-puncture is somewhat soft and yielding, and unless supported by a moderately firm sac soon flattens out or disappears, and the condition of the aneurism becomes much the same as it was before the operation. Little more than the most transient relief can for this reason be expected in many cases ; and whenever the aneurism has become diffused, the operation can only be productive of mischief by hastening the inflammatory changes occurring round the sac. It might be supposed that so soft a clot would readily break up, and that there would consequently be great danger of embolism ; but no such accident has happened in any ot the recorded cases. Suppuration of the sac has occasionally taken place, but its occurrence has been much less frequent since the principles of the operation have been more fully understood. The formation of sloughs round the needle punctures, and consequent hasmorrhage, have not been noticed except when the needles have been imperfectly insulated. In fact, it may be said that in almost every case, even when the operation has failed to give relief, it has at any rate done no harm.