443 DISEASES OF THE KNEE. equally caffected; but in a case that I saw with Tyson, of Folkestone, the left was crossed over the right, the latter being nearly straight. Should it be thought desirable to attempt to correct this deformity, an aneesthetic should be given, and if the ankylosis is not perfect, the adhesions must be broken down and the limbs straightened, if the ankylosis is osseous, the neck of the femur on either side must be cut across with saw or osteotome, and the limbs brought into position. DISEASES OF THE FEMUR. In connexion with the various diseases of the femur little need be added to what has been said already in describing the affections of the bones in general. Acute necrosis of the bone is not uncommon, and shows a special predilection for its lower extremity, causing the separation of a sequestrum fi'om the pop- liteal surface. Chronic osteitis and periostitis of the shaft are also not unfrequently met with. Many special points relating to sarcoma of the femur have already been considered. Tuberculous disease of the articular extremities is chiefly important in its relations to the similar affections of the hip and knee, but may occur independently of joint disease. Tuberculous Disease of the Great Trochanter occasionally affects the bone primarily, or may have its starting-point in one of the overlying bursse. The resulting abscess in the upper and outer parb of the thigh may closely resemble that due to hip disease ; but careful examination will usually show that the joint is unaffected, .and that the disease is limited to the trochanter. It is more com- mon in children than in adults, and results in central or superficial caries, which is often associated with necrosis. In these cases the limb should be made bloodless, and the trochanter fully exposed by a curved incision (Fig. 582). The disease must then be treated on general principles, but great care must be taken not to open the joint. Tuberculous Disease of the Neck of the Femtir is a common ante- cedent of hip disease, but may sometimes 2:ive rise to an extra-articular abscess by the early treatment of which the joint may be saved. Two cases of this kind have been recorded by Charters Symonds. In both cases a large abscess was present in the upper and outer part of the thigh, from which a minute sinus led to a sequestrum in the neck of the femur. The removal of the seques- trum was followed by recovery in both instances, in one with a perfect joint. Pig. 5S2, Incision exposing the Great Trochanter for the removal of diseased bone : Esniarch's bandage applied to render the operation bloodless. ,