I '^76 DISEASES OF THE V RET LIRA. potash, and the saline aperient mineral waters, as those of Carlsbad uv riedrichshall. If there be much tenderness or weight about the perinseum the application of leeches, togetlier with the use of the warm hip-bath will \1 serviceable. ^ ' Congestive stricture, though more influenced by constitutional than hy local means m many cases, yet is often greatly relieved by the occasional mtroduction of bougies. In some instances a soft instrument, in others a steel one, will be found to answer best. Whatever is used, care should be taken to introduce it slowly and with every possible gentleness. With all care some haemorrhage usually follows the passage of the instrument; not from' deep laceration, but simply as the result of compression of the mucous membrane • and the discharge of blood appears to be beneficial rather than otherwise. Organic Stricture.—This, the true form of stricture, is the result of the formation of dense fibroid tissue in the mucous membrane and submucous tissue of a portion of the urethra, in many cases extending to the neighbouring spongy tissue, or even further. This is produced as the result of chronic inflammation or of the healing of ulcers or wounds, and differs in no respect fi-om the cicatricial fibroid tissue formed in other parts under similar circum- stances. In its development it shows the tendency to contraction which forms the characteristic feature of all fibrous tissue produced as a consequence of inflammation, and thus leads to a narrowing of the canal it surrounds. The causes of organic stricture are : 1. Chronic inflammation of the mucous mem- brane, resulting from gonorrhoea. Repeated claps and long-continued gleets are by far the most fertile causes of this disease. The long continuance of the inflammation is more to be dreaded than its intensity in occasioning this mischief ; hence it is of great importance not to allow gleets to run on indefinitely, as they will almost to a certainty be followed by constriction of some portion of the urethra. 2. The heahng of an intra-urethral chancre always gives rise to a stricture. This is met with within an inch of the orifice, and is a comparatively rare form of the disease. 3. The most inveterate form of stricture arises from transverse laceration of the m-ethra from blows or kicks in the perinteum healing by a contracted scar. Severe contusions of other parts of the canal may in the same way cause narrowing of its calibre. A more rare cause is the injury done to the urethra of a child by the lodgment of a calculus, or in the effort to extract it. 4. S. Gross states that it may be caused by habitual masturbation. Age.—Stricture of the urethra may be met with at any age after puberty. The causes that usually give rise to it seldom come into operation, however, before the adult age ; hence strictures are not very common before 25 years of age. Between that period and the age of 40 they most commonly originate, and may then continue for an indefinite period. The earhest age at which I have seen true organic stricture of the urethra has been in a boy 14 years old, when it had already existed for more than 12 months ; it was situated one and a half inch from the meatus, and was so tight as only to admit of No. 1 catheter. It had given rise to a perinseal fistula, through which the greater part of the urine escaped. The boy could give no explanation of its occurrence, but it was probably traumatic. His attention was first directed to it by a sudden attack of retention. The stricture was hard and gristly, about half an inch long, and required urethrotomy for its relief. There was no calculus. Seat.—The seat of organic stricture varies considerably ; indeed, any