SPEC I A L A NEURISMS. 220 CHAPTER XLV. ANEUKLSMS OF TPIE ABDOMEN AND LOWER EXTREMITIES. ANEURISM OP THE ABDOMINAL AORTA AND ITS BRANCHES. Aneurism of the Abdominal Aorta is a rare affection, and is met with almost exclusively in men. It may occur at any part of its course, but the niost common situation is near the origin of the coeliac axis; and here the disease is often not confined to the main trunk, but one or more of the branches are also affected. The situation next in order of frequency is at or near the bifurcation. Aneurisms may also form in connexion with any of the main branches of the abdominal aorta, most frequently on the superior mesenteric, splenic, and inferior mesenteric. The aneurism may be sacculated or tubular. When growing from the main trunk, it is usually sacculated. Symptoms.—The chief sign of the disease is the existence of a pulsating tumour, situated in or near the middle line, somewhere between the costal margin and the umbilicus. The pulsation of the tumour is expansile, and Dhere is frequently a distinct bruit. Walshe mentions a single systolic murmur, a dull muflBed systolic sound convertible into a murmur by a little pressure, a sharp, abrupt, short systolic murmur on the left side of the lumbar spine, a systolic murmur audible below the sac, but not over it, and occasionally a dull second sound, as having been heard in various cases of abdominal aneurism. The exact shape and size of the tumour and the nature of its pulsation can in many cases be ascertained only by fully relaxing the abdominal muscles by an anaesthetic. The sensation of pulsation in the epigastrium may be very perceptible to the patient, or may be entirely absent. Constant aching lumbar pain is a very frequent symptom. The pressure-signs are not usually very marked till late in the disease. Pressure on the vena cava to such an extent as to cause oedema of the lower extremities is almost unknown. The sac may press on the lumbar plexus, and give rise to signs of irritation in the course of its branches. The most marked of these are pains in the groin and testicle from irritation of the genito-crural, and occasionally shooting pains down the thigh, in the course of the anterior crural or externa cutaneous nerve. When the bodies of the vertebrEe are eroded, constant lumbar pain will frequently be present, of the same burning, boring character as that felt in thoracic aneurism under similar circumstances. In some cases the pressure may affect the great intestine, causing incomplete obstruction of the bowels. _ Occasionally the tumour may attain an enormous size before death, half filling the cavity of the abdomen. The fatal termination may be due to gradual exhaustion irom pain and interference with the functions of the abdominal viscera, to sudden rupture of the sac into the peritoneum or subperitoneal tissue, or into some part of the alimentary canal, or, more rarely, into the pleural cavity through the diaphragm.