DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 422 points at Poupart's ligament; it may .sometimes be recognized by the thicken- ing felt on rectal examination. Enlarged glands are often felt in Scarpa's triangle, or on deep pressure above Poupart's ligament. It is about this period that the change from the abducted to the adducted position usually (p. 417) takes places, followed by true shortening of the limb. The shortening of the limb arises in ciironic cases partly from want of growth consequent upon disuse, but it is chiefly due in most cases to destruction of the brim of the acetabulum and slow displacement upwards of the femur on to the dorsum ilii. Finally, the abscesses point and burst through the skin, leaving Binusep which may continue to discharge for indefinite periods (Fig. 507). The constitutional disturbance which accompanies the progress of the disease varies much in different cases. In the early stages the health often suffers very little except from want of exercise, and possibly from the interference with Fig. 567.—Tuberculous Disease of Hip-joint. Sinuses on outer side of Thigh. Bleep caused by starting pains. A slight but constant nocturnal elevation of temperature will often be noted. An increase in the fever often, but not invariably, occurs when suppuration takes place. If the abscesses be allowed to open spontaneously, and decom- position to occur in the discharges, the patient will steadily waste, and eventually die from/hectic and albumenoid disease. Occasionally the fatal result is preceded by tuberculous meningitis or general tuberculosis. It must be clearly understood, however, that the course of the disease as abov( briefly sketched is subject to many variations. Spontaneous cure may occui' at any stage—in some cases with a more or less ankylosed hip, but wit1i little other alteration of the limb ; in more advanced cases, with ankylosis, wasting and deformity. Moreover, if the disease assume the form of dry caries, "considerable destruction may slowly occur with such a remarkable freedom from pain and other symptoms, that the serious nature of the case mny easily escape detection.