^74 INGUINAL HERNIA. this object he recommeuded that the conjoined tendon should be stitoho.l f the aponenros.s of the external oblique in the outer side of the rinf By a slight but important modification of this method, Bassini of Padua ha devised an operation which must be regarded as a nearer approa^^ perfection than any of those above described pproacn to Bassini's operation is carried out as follows :-An incision is commenced at the pubic spme, and is carried upwards and outwards along the line of til inguinal canal to a point about two inches internal to the anterior superior ^lac spine. The external abdominal ring and the part of the external obi u which lies in front of the inguinal canal having been freely exposed, the 1 ?te : opened in its whole length by slitting up the aponeurosis of the extern oblique. By reflecting the divided aponeurosis upwards and downwards the border of the internal oblique and the conjoined tendon are defined above and the inner aspect of Poupart's ligament below. The sac of the hernia is now carefully separated, and after its contents have been reduced, the neck is lica- tui-ed high up with silk. If the sac is small it may be completely removed but it it descends into the scrotum it should be left in situ. The spermatic cord is next lifted out of the canal and held by an assistant in a blunt hook Ihe arched border of the internal oblique and conjoined tendon is now drawn down hehmd the cord, and secured to Poupart's ligament by a series of silk sutures of which five or six will usually be sufficient. Interrupted stitches are generally to be preferred to the continuous suture recommended by Bassini. The cord is now allowed to drop back into its place, and finally the divided edges of the external oblique and the pillars of the external ring are brought together with fine silk sutures. By this operation the inguinal canal is more nearly restored to its natural condition than by any of the other methods, and it differs from Macewen's plan of suturing in that the conjoined tendon is drawn down hehind the sper- matic cord, and not in front of it. For the cure of inguinal hernia in adults Bassini's operation can be strongly recommended, but in children such an extensive procedure is by no means always required. In them excellent results are obtained by simply isolating the neck of the sac and applying a silk liga- ture to it as high up as possible. In children inguinal hernia is doubtless due in many cases to the existence of an open funicular process, and nothing more than the closure of this is required. If, however, the ring is large, this should be partly closed by one or two stitches, and if the whole inguinal canal is dilated, Bassini's operation may be performed. The difficulty of the operation in children, especially when the hernia is congenital, is increased by the extreme thinness of the sac and its intimate connexion with the structures of the spermatic cord. When an inguinal hernia is associated with a retained testis, a cure may sometimes be obtained by the use of a truss, the pad of which is applied above the testis. If operation is required, the testis should, if possible, be brought down into the scrotum ; but should this be impossible, and the testis imper- fectly developed, its removal may be advisable. After-TreatmPMt.—As a rule the use of a drainage-tube is unnecessary, and the dressing may be left unchanged for a week or ten days, when primary union will usually have occurred and the sutures may be removed. No opium need, as a rule, be given unless the gut has been freely handled in the separa- tion of adhesions. Fluid diet should be given until the bowels have acted,