TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF lilV: EXCISION. 431 be thoroughly treated without interfering with the joint itself, yet in the large majority of suppurating cases the choice must lie between merely opening the abscess and proceeding at once to excise the head of the femur. Indications for Excision.—In endeavouring to arrive at a conclusion as to the practical indications for the operation of excision in tuberculous hip disease, it will be gathered from what has been said above that we have to consider the relative merits of two very different lines of practice, and to answer if possible the question " Is excision to be regarded as the treatment to be more or less generally adopted in suppurating cases, or is it to be reserved for exceptional cases which have resisted all other methods ? " Those Surgeons who regard excision as a practice to be avoided if possible, base their opinion chiefly upon the utility of the limb which is obtained. Thus, Howard Marsh, who has most ably supported the expectant treatment, is strongly of opinion that the final result thus secured is better than in cases treated by excision in the earlier stages of suppuration. Marsh recommends that the abscess should be freely opened and a drainage tube inserted for two or three days, antiseptic precautions being of course rigidly observed. Absolute fixation of the joint is maintained throughout the treatment, and any fresh abscesses which may subsequently form are similarly opened. The results obtained by this method of treatment have already been given both as regards the mortality and the subsequent condition of the limb in the cases which recover (p. 425). Among the most ardent advocates of early excision—that is, excision practised as an operation of choice in suppurating cases, as opposed to excision reserved for exceptionally severe and unfavourable cases—may be mentioned Annandale, Croft, Barker, and Wright. In this mode of treatment the abscess is, in the first place, freely opened, and the track by which the abscess has escaped from the joint is sufficiently enlarged to allow examination of the head of the bone. If, as is almost invariably the case, this is found diseased, with separation of the cartilage and caries of the surface, it is removed by saw- ing the bone through the neck. In this way not only is the diseased head itself removed, but free access is obtained to the joint, so that an endeavour may be made thoroughly to remove tuberculous synovial membrane, to treat any acetabular disease which may exist, and in some instances to afi'ord free drainage to an intrapelvic abscess. The methods of trentiug the wound and obtaining primary union will be subsequently considered, but it may here be stated that after the adoption of this hne of treatment a Thomas's splint should be worn for at least a year. In comxparing these two methods it certainly appears that on theoretical grounds excision may be supported as being the only practical means of removing the diseased tissues. As regards the mortality attending the two methods, it is probable that the diflPerence is inconsiderable, for the immediate fatality of excision in the early stages of suppuration is small, and the subsequent mortahty is probably little affected, although the patient escapes those dangers which are inseparable from the presence of discharging sinuses. Again, the duration of the treatment will not be found to be shortened by early excision to the extent that was at first anticipated. In the most favour- able cases at least a year must elapse before the patient is allowed to use the limb, and in the majority of instances one or more secondary operations for sinuses will be required before a cure is obtained. So far, therefore, it is