441 OPERATION FOR OSSEOUS ANKYLOSIS. (luence of an injury, had osseous ankylosis of the hip in a nearly rectangular position. Barton, according to Gross, made a crucial incision over the gi-eat trochanter. The muscles were detached and turned aside, and the great trochanter "and part of the neck of the femur were sawn transversely. Whether a simple section of the bone was made, or, in conformity with Barton's usual practice in ankylosis, a V'shaped piece of bone was removed, I know not; for on this point American authorities differ. But the limb was brought into a straight position, and put up in a fracture apparatus for twenty days. Passive motion was then commenced, and at the end of four months the patient had a movable false joint, so that he could rotate the limb, abduct it for twenty inches, and carry it backwards and forwards to a still greater extent. The case was therefore eminently successful. The operation appears, however, to have attracted but little notice, and to have been but rarely performed by others. It is true that Barton himself operated a second time ; and that Kogers of New York, in 1830, did so successfully on a man 47 years old. The example of these American Surgeons was followed in Europe, by Textor in 1841, and by Maisonneuve in 1847, on a girl of 18, successfully. Ross (U.S.A.) operated in 1857 on a woman of 23. In the two latter cases no false joint was made; but the bone, after being straightened, united again by callus. In March, 18G!), I performed a similar operation at University College Hospital, on a girl of 16, who had rectangular osseous ankylosis of the right hip-joint. The patient made a slow but good recovery with a straight and useful limb. There was no attempt at the formation of a ftilse joint, but consolidation took place at the line of section. In 18f)2 Sayre recommended division of the femur above the small trochanter so as to retain the attachment of the psoas and iliacus to the shaft, and he aimed at the production of a false joint by cutting out a semicircular piece of