■ 1296 DISEASES OF THE -FEMALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. tion-as indicated by the occurrence of repeated chills combined with • characteristic temperature chart-depends upon the direction in vhilh h abscess ,s pomfng-. If a distinct fluctnatinj. swelling be detected in m,.nal rami an exploratory puncture with a full-sized VpLt;;^^^^^^ be made in it after thorough cleansing and disinfection of the vagina ; shou the pus be readily reached, the abscess sac is to be opened with scisso s or t caa^tery knife to an extent sufficient to allow of the introduction of a dou self-i-etannng rubber tube, through which irrigation can subsequently be pru tised, m order to ensure efficient drainage of the cavity. A parametHc abscess rising into the^r.^. should be opened by an incision pari^lel To andTbo half an inch above Poupart's ligament, so as to avoid injury to the peritoneum • the cavity should be drained with antiseptic precautions. A perimetric abscess is an encysted inlraperitoneal collection of pu^ originating in connexion with suppurative (septic, or more rarely tuber- culous) disease of one or both uterine appendages. The gradual formation of the abscess, due to repeated escape of small quantities of puriform matter froui the imperfectly sealed ostium of an inflamed Fallopian tube (pyosalpvnx) or to the presence of a small suppurating ovarian or tubo-ovarian cyst, accounts for the matting together of the pelvic viscera, which usually protects the general peritoneal cavity from infection. The proper treatment for such cases is abdominal section, in the performance of which great care must be taken at once to sponge away any purulent fluid which may be set free durino- the separation of pelvic adhesions. The diseased appendage should be cautfously enucleated from its pelvic attachments—if possible without being ruptured— until its uterine connexion can be defined, and ligatured previously to divi- sion. If the case be complicated by the existence of a rectal or vesical fistula, the subsequent use of a drainage-tube may be advisable for a few days. Operations for the arrest of hgemorrhage in cases of Ruptured Tubal Gestation, by the removal of the damaged tube and ovary, usually present no special difficulty. After the broad ligament has been secured, the peritoneal cavity should be cleared of blood and clots by a thorough flushing out with a warm solution of common salt (1 drachm to the pint), and a drainage-tube be then inserted and retained for forty-eight hours. Hernia of the Ovary.—It may happen that the ovary, on one or both sides, becomes displaced, and escapes from the pelvis through one of the openings which give passage to intestinal hernia. In three-fourths of the recorded cases (twenty-seven out of thirty-eight, according to Englisch of Vienna) the displacement has been inguinal. In nearly one-half of the cases it was congenital ; all these were instances of inguinal displacement; and all the instances of double ovarian hernia were inguinal and congenital. The Causes of the displacement in the adult are not easily ascertained. In the congenital cases it would seem as if an abnormal descent of the ovary took place, analogous to the descent of the testis in the male. Symptoms.—Congenital ovarian hernia is nearly always irreducible ; while in most cases of acquired displacement of the ovary, it has been possible to return the tumour into the abdomen. The swelling is generally pyriform in the inguinal region, rounder in the femoral. There is no constant diagnostic symptom ; but in several instances it has been noticed that the hernia became more tender on pressure, and larger during menstruation. At this time, also, inflammation of the ovary may take place ; and, being attended with vomiting.