CHRONIC ABSCESS IN BONE. 271 of any new bone beneath the cartilage, while it readily takes place under the periosteum In young subjects before the union of the epiphyses, the pus commonly finds its wav to the surface through the soft tissue be- tween the epiphysis and the diaphysis. Very frequently, however, the disease becomes excessively chronic. The abscess is then of small size and deeply seated in the cancellous tissue. The inflammation in the bone immediately Fi: 508. — Abscess in Head of the Tihia. mm surrounding the cavity in these cases often assumes the osteoplastic form, and the collection of pus becomes surrounded by a wall of excessively dense hard bone, and in this state it may remain unchanged for many months or even years. The irritation caused by the presence of the pus usually gives rise to chronic inflammatory changes in the neighbouring compact tissue and periosteum. These assume the form described in the previous page as "chronic osteitis and periostitis," and produce consider- able enlargement of the affected end of the bone. Chronic abscesses have occasionally, but more rarely, been met with in the medullary canal. The quantity of pus contained in a chronic abscess of bone is usually very small, amounting to one or two drachms, but Stanley has recorded cases in which an ounce or more was found. It may happen that degeneration of the inflammatory products or suppuration may take place before the rarefying process has advanced far enough to cause complete destruction of the cancellous tissue. The undestroyed bone then perishes, becomes separated from the surrounding parts, and lies loose in the cavity of the abscess. In some cases abscess of bone is associated with chronic osteitis of a con- siderable portion or the whole of the shaft, the bone becoming greatlv enlarged, thickened, and generally diseased from end to end. Y\2. 509 is a representation of a section of the tibia in such a state of combined suppu- Fig. 500. — Section of Tibia, sliowing Clim- nic Osteitis and Cir- cumscribed Abscesses of many years' dura- tion.