CANCER OF RECTUM: SYMPTOMS. 957 nodulated growths projecting- into the gut, greatly narrowing its calibre. They ulcerate slowly and bleed less readily. True scirrhus, that is to say, glandular carcinoma, with firm fibrous stroma, is said to have been met with in the rectum. If such be the case it is certainly very rare. Colloid cancer also, arising apparently from colloid degeneration of a columnar carcinoma, has been met with, but is exceedingly rare. The tumours described as Encephaloid have probably been soft malignant sarcomata commencing in the gut or in its coats, but these cases are so rare that it is impossible to speak with certainty as to their structure. • Carcinoma is usually seated from three to five inches above the anus, and may implicate a considerable portion of the bowel, extending upwards rather than downwards, giving rise to considerable contraction, ending in some cases in complete occlusion of the gut. Symptoms.—Cancer of the rectum is met with chiefly in middle life, but sometimes does not occur until advanced age. Both sexes are equally liable to it; if anything, it is more frequent in women than in men. It is very insidious in most cases in its early manifestations. A sense: of Fig. 821.—Cancer of Upper Part of Rectum. At X perforation leading to fatal Peritonitis took place, during administration of an Enema. uneasiness, a tendency to diarrhoea, a shght discharge of blood or mucus, a feeling as if the patient had piles, are usually the only early evidences of the development of this distressing disease. After a time the rectal pain becomes very severe. There is now a constant feehng of pain and weight in the gut, with a sensation as if the bowels had not been completely relieved, together with the discharge of mucus, blood, or pus, and some flattening of the fseces. The patient experiences most intense suffering during defsecation, in conse- quence of the passage of fseces over the raw and ulcerated surface. This pain is not confined merely to the diseased part, where the sensation is of a burning character, but usually radiates round the loins and down the thighs, and is so severe that the patient looks forward to each action of the bowels with the greatest dread, and restrains it as long as possible. The whole nervous system at last participates in this continually recurring suff'ering ; the countenance becomes anxious ; the spirits are depressed ; sleep and digestion are destroyed. The patient's condition is indeed truly miserable, between the dread of exces- sive suffering when the bowels act, on the one hand, and the fear of impending obstruction on the other. In many instances he is worn out by this suffering, occasionally combined with the cachexia induced by the contamination of the