io62 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. to perform the lateral operation in cases of encysted calculus that are known ■ to be such. If, however, the Surgeon liave been unfortunate enough to do go he must be guided in the course he adopts by the condition in which he finds the stone. If the aperture leading into the cyst be very small, as in Fig. 847 the better plan will be to proceed no furtlier with the operation, as it will be' clearly impossible to remove the stone. If, on the other hand, the aperture into the cyst be large, he might feel disposed to make an effort to extract the i calculus. With this view he might adopt the plan pursued by Bi-odie, and ' endeavour cautiously to enlarge the orifice of the cyst by means of a probe- pointed bistoury, and then finish the extraction by means of a scoop. Such a proceeding, however, is in the highest degree hazardous, on account of the i readiness with which the incision may extend into the peritoneal cavity ; as well as difficult in execution, from the depth at which the parts are lying.' If a calculus be known to be encysted the suprapubic operation should be performed. I believe that a calculus may occasionally become encysted, or rather encap- snled, in another way,—by being covered in by a kind of false membrane whilst lying on the floor of the bladder. This condition I found in a boy on whom I operated for stone some years ago. After removing a calculus of about the size of a pea, I felt, with the end of the finger, a hard irregular body, covered apparently by mucous membrane, lying at the inferior fundus of the bladder. On scraping through the membrane covering this with the point of ' my nail and a curved scoop, I exposed the calculus (Fig. 844), and removed it, with a cyst attached to it. On examining the structure of this cyst, which was of about the thickness of ordinary writing paper, of a reddish colour, and ] esembling a piece of mucous membrane, it was found to be a false membrane, composed of organized fibro-cellular tissue. The patient made a good recovery, with the exception of a slight attack of secondary haemorrhage, which occurred on the eighth day after the operation. Fibroid Tumours in the Prostate constitute sometimes rather a serious difficulty in lateral lithotomy. They may do this in two ways : first, by elongating the prostatic part of the urethra to such an extent as to carry the neck of the bladder far from the surface ; and, secondly, by being in the way during extraction of the stone. A tumour of this kind, an inch or more in diameter, necessarily fills up to a very serious extent the space in the wound through which the stone has to pass ; it jams up the orifice and prevents the free play of the forceps. These tumours, however, when caught between the blades of the forceps, soon shell out, and allow the easy exit of the calculus (Fig. 870). Deformity of the Pelvis from Rickets may constitute a serious or even insuperable obstacle to the extraction of a calculus. This condition may act in two ways. It may narrow the brim of the pelvis in its antero-posterior diameter, to so great an extent as to prevent the passage of the stone down- wards after it has been seized by the forceps. This condition is more to be feared in children, in whom the bladder, being an abdominal organ and lying high, is altogether above the brim of the pelvis in these cases. Or there may bo difficulty in the extraction of the stone through the inferior outlet, owing to the approximation of the rami on each side. The first cause of difficulty once occurred to me, in operating on a very rickety boy four years and a half old. Of the second I have had no experience. The rickety condition of the