DISEASES OF THE LOWER JAW. !T'^ ^r'f border of the temporal muscle ito the spheno-maxillary fossa, which was dilated by tiie tumiur into S Tno. th'"/ ^b^rPb--P^l^^t'- f-amen. A narrow saw was niw pVe^ a o g the finger-its point being protected by the forefinger of the left S ntruduced into the no.tril-and a cut was made direct^^ forwards thr u^J the ascending process of the palate bone and the body of the supS maxillary bone across the cavity of the antrum, parallel to the hard palate and immediately above it, terminating at the anterior naris. The upper incisioa was now deepened, and the soft parts were raised from the floor of the orbit and Irom the angle between the zygoma and the malar bone ; and, the saw being again introduced, a cut was made tlirough the malar bone into the spheno-maxillary fissure, and thence across the floor of the orbit as far as the lachryma bone. The wedge-shaped piece of the superior maxillary bone included between these cuts was now attached only by its connexions with the nasal and frontal bones, and by the soft parts covering it, which were un- touched. By introducing an elevator into the cut in the malar bone the whole piece was lifted up, bending upon its attachment to the nasal and frontal bones as upon a hinge, until it was completely turned inwards and upwards over the opposite side of the face. The tumour, which was found to have extensive connexions in the pterygo-maxillary region, was now > removed. The bone was then replaced, and the wound closed. On the sixth day, the greater part of the wound was healed ; on the sixteenth the wound had completely healed, and no mobility could be felt in the bone. Oliier's and Lawrence's operations, which are adapted specially to tumours • of the nasal fossae, have already been described (see p. 597). DISEASES OF THE LOWEB JAW. Abscess in the Lower Jaw.—Chronic abscesses, causing "expansion of r" the bone," have been met with in the lower jaw. They may arise in "connexion : with the fang of a diseased tooth, or from suppuration of a cyst. If the shell of bone surrounding the pus be very dense they may resemble solid tumours. Their treatment presents nothing peculiar. Acute Suppurative Periostitis is occasionally met with in the lower jaw. It is dependent probably on carious teeth, but the immediate cause seems usually to be exposure to cold, such as riding in a train facing an open window. The disease is characterized by rapid swelling, with tension i and redness of the skin. A large abscess quickly forms, surrounding the bone, . usually limited to one side, about the angle. The sweUiug extends downwards • into the neck, and tends to point externally. On opening the abscess a large part of the bone can be felt bare and denuded of its periosteum. If the pus • be let out early, free drainage provided, and decomposition prevented, no ■ necrosis may take place. It is usually necessary to make the incision externally, as the pus extends too far in the neck to allow of sufficient drainage being provided from within the mouth. Necrosis of the Lower Jaw has already been described (p. 625). Tumours of the Lower Jaw.—The lower jaw is a common seat of tumours. Fibrous Epulis, Myeloid Sarcoma of the alveolar border, and Epithelioma of the Gum implicating the bone, have already been described