SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 194 discouraging ; for of all the cases in which it has been done, only three have recovered from the operation. Of the cases recorded in the table nine died from secondaiy haemorrhage ; two from inflammation of the lungs or pleura ; one from pericarditis ; one from diseased kidney ; one from phlebitis and suppuration ; three from cerebral symptoms, and two from causes that are not mentioned. Of the three cases which recovered from the operation the most remarkable was that in which Smyth of New Orleans was the operator, bnt it alfordsno real evidence as to the possibility of safely ligaturing the innominate. For in this case the carotid was also tied so as to stop the regurgitant flow of blood ; yet, notwithstanding this precaution, on the fourteenth day haemorrhage to syncope occurred. This hiernorrhage recurred at intervals for a period of thirty-seven clays, and was temporarily arrested by filling the wound with shot, till, on the fifty-first day after the operation, a "terrific " haemorrhage took place, stopped by syncope. As this bleeding came from the distal side and from the subcla- vian artery, the vertebral was tied, with perfect success—no bleeding recurring. This fact is of the utmost surgical value ; it shows that the secondary hemor- rhage, which may be looked upon almost as the necessary sequence of the ligature of the innominate artery, may be arrested and the patient's life saved by the hgature of the principal arterial branch that communicates with and that carries regurgitant blood into the distal end of the artery which was originally ligatured. I am indebted to Smyth for the further history of this case. After ten years of good health, in which the patient was able to follow his employment as a ship's steward, the pulsation returned and the aneurism reached a size larger than before. Thinking it might be fed by the internal mammary, Smyth ligatured that vessel, but without result. About six months later an abscess formed over the sac, and the aneurism became diffused into it, and as a last effort to save the patient's life, the sac was laid open. The hgemorrhage was profuse, and the openings of the vessels into the sac could not be seen, so that the operator had to content himself with plugging the wound. The patient died a few days after. The post-mortem examination showed that the circulation had been carried on chiefly by means of the aortic intercostals and branches of the axillary artery. In Banks's case, recorded by Jacobson, the patient recovered from the operation, and was able to leave the Liverpool Royal Infirmary on the twentieth day with the wound soundly healed. Eecurrence of pulsation and rapid increase of the aneurism soon occurred, and on the sixty-seventh day after the ligature of the mnomi- nate the first part of the subclavian was tied with a double catgut ligature. 1 few days after the operation the patient became much exhausted by an attack of broncho-pneumonia. Death occurred after repeated attacks of secondary hajmorrhage on the thirty-seventh day. . , , ,i . Coppinger's remarkably successful case is quite unique, m that the patient recovered fi-om the operation without any complication, the aneurism being cured The operation was performed on January 9th, 1893, m the Mater MisericordiEB Hospital, Dublin, and I am indebted to Coppinger for the fact that in July, 1894, the patient was in perfect health and the ^-'g^^ ™ normal in size and strength. At this time the radial artery could be felt dis- tended with blood, but without pulsation. Ligature of the First Part of the Right Subclavian has been performed for aneurisms situated behind or beyond the scalenus. ^; hen we considei th ana omical relations of that portion of the subclavian which intervenes between