DISEASES OF AWSCLES. 5f4 occurs chiefly in males, and there is some reason for thinking that it is rheumatic in nature. The muscles chiefly affected are the latissimus dorsi, trapezius, and rliomboids. These become converted into flat bony sheets, and the disease ^slowly extends to the neck muscles, the shoulder muscles and pectorals. The upper limbs are more extensively affected than the lower, la some cases the tendency to bone formation has been further shown by ossifica- tion of ligaments aud the formation of exostoses on the bones. The abdominal muscles and the diaphragm usually escape. The general health is unaffected, and the patient may live for many years, becoming gradually more and more crippled by the fixation of the limbs, and dying eventually from interference with the breathing and resulting chest complications, or from the effects of extensive bed-sores. No treatment is of any avail. Although the widespread ossification of muscles above described is veiy rare, small bony deposits are not very unfrequently met with in muscles or their tendons as the result of repeated injury. As examples of this may be mentioned the " rider's bone," which forms in the upper part of the adductor muscles of the thigh, and the " drill bone" of the old Prussian soldiers, which formed in the lower part of the deltoid from repeated sharp blows in musket exercise. Syphilitic Disease of Muscles has already been described (Vol. I., p. 1161). It occurs as diffuse sclerosis of the muscle or as gummata. Gummata have been met with in the triceps, vastus externus, sterno-mastoid, gastro- cnemius, and many other muscles, but especially in those of the tongue. They grow slowly, infiltrate surrounding parts, and soften if not relieved by treat- ment. They are not unfrequently multiple. They are accompanied by aching pain, and stiffness of the affected muscle. They derive their importance chiefly from their resemblance to some of the tumours to be immediately described, which has occasionally led to their being cut out. The diagnosis is effected by the history of syphilis, the slow growth and hardness of the tumour, its subsequent softening, and the pain at night. They disappear or diminish rapidly under iodide of potassium. Tumours of Muscle.—Primary tumours of muscle are not common. The growths met with are the various forms of sarcoma, sometimes containing much fibrous tissue (fibro-sarcoma), sometimes soft (round-celled or spindle- celled sarcoma), chondromata, myxomata, fibromata, nsevoid growths, and parasitic cysts. Primary carcinoma of muscle never occurs. Teevan collected with much industry the particulars of G2 cases of tumours of muscles of all kinds : about one-third of these were soft sarcomata, 16 were described as fibrous, 8 cystic, 5 hydatid, and 5 nsevoid. Malignant sarcomata are most common, according to my experience, in the lower limb. When the upper limbs are affected, the muscles that have, according to Teevan, been most frequently attacked are the pectoralis major, deltoid, and biceps. The muscles of the trunk and neck are seldom diseased, with the exception of the rectus abdominis, which appears to be very liable to tumours. By far the most common parasitic cyst found in muscle is the ordinary hydatid, of which three cases are recorded below. The cysticercus cellulosaj, or hydatid form of the tsenia solium, has occasionally been met with, and forms a small transparent bladder situated among the muscle fibres. A specimen of this nature, which was examined by Cobbold, is preserved in the Museum of University College. Lastly, the muscles are occasionally infested by the