1" OPERATION FOR HARE-LIP 665 of the child is often feeble, it suffers greatly from the loss of even a very small (iiiantity of blood, and the tissues are so lacerable that there is great danger .If the pins or stitches cutting out. I would therefore not advise its perform- unce then. n , ■ l l- It is scarcely necessary to observe that, as union by the first intention is •limed at, the operation should not be undertaken unless the health be good ; and certainly not if the child, at whatever age, have but recently recovered from measles, scarlet fever, or other infantile disease. Operation for Hare-lip.—In the treatment of hare-lip, there are three main objects to be kept in view : 1. The procuring of union by first inten- tion of the cut edges of the fissure; 2. The prevention, as far as possible, of deformity during the process of union; and, 3. The avoidance of all traction on the line of incision that may interfere with these results. The operation for single hare-lip is performed in the following way : The child is placed on a table facing a good light, the head and shoulders being raised on a small pillow and the arms fixed with a towel pinned around them. Chloroform should be administered. Before proceeding to pare the edges of the •left the Surgeon should thoroughly free the lip from the ijone on either side of the cleft, so that it may subsequently be more readily drawn into apposition. Bleeding from the coronary artery of the lip may be prevented, either by an assistant or the Surgeon grasping the lip between his finger and thumb, or by compressing the lip with the little contrivance here figured, which consists of ordinary ring-forceps converted into a compressor by having an india-rubber ring slipped over the handles (Fig. 717). Putting the lip on the stretch by seizing the extreme edge of the cleft with a pair of artery-forceps, the Surgeon pares the edges of the cleft by transfixion with a fine scalpel, from above downwards, first on one side, then on the other; taking care that the incisions unite neatly above the upper angle of the fissure, which must be well cut out; and that they extend sufficiently far outwards to cut away the rounded portion of the prolabium which forms the side of the base of the fissure. The incision on each side must be curved with the concavity towards the fissure (Fig. 723), so that by bringing the two curves into a straight line a slight projection of the prolabium at the point of union shall be produced. If this be not done a notch will be left when the lip is healed. Care should be taken that enough is cut away ; there is more danger usually of taking too little than too much. The edges of the cleft are now adjusted with hare-lip pins or simple sutures ; of these the latter are generally to be preferred. In either case two points require special attention : first, that the whole thickness of the pared surface, and not the skin only, be drawn together ; and secondly, that the line of the red edge of the lip be accurately adjusted. If pins are used, two, or sometimes three, are required. Each should be entered about a third of an inch from the pared edge on one side, and brought out at a corresponding point on the other, the whole thickness of the lip except the mucous membrane being included. Fig. Vl7.—Elastic Coin- pressov applied over Coronary Artery.