PYEMIA AND SEPTICEMIA IN URINARY DISEASE. 1005 on the iirinaiy passages. Their general symptoms and pathology have already been fully described ; but a few words on the peculiarities they manitest when secondary to affections of the urinary organs may not be out of place here. Pyjemia may assume the ordinary rapid course of embolic pyasmia, with secondary abscesses in the viscera ; but this is not of very frequent occur- rence. Should it occur, softening thrombi will usually be found in the prostatic plexus or in the vesical branches of the internal iliac vein. More commonly visceral abscesses are wanting, the secondary seats of suppuration being most frequently the joints and subcutaneous tissue. In such cases the prognosis, though bad, is not hopeless, as the disease may assume a chronic form, and the patieut may recover after long suffering, possibly, with one or more joints stiffened. Septicemia may appear under the forms of septic poisoning and septic infection. Poisoning from the absorption of the chemical products of putre- faction is probably the immediate cause of death in many of those cases in which the bladder, ureters, and pelves of the kidneys are filled with foul decomposing urine and mucus. The symptoms present nothing peculiar. Septic infection may be assumed to be the cause of death in those cases in which there is febrile disturbance of varying severity, preceded or not by a rigor, and ending in death from exhaustion in a period of from a few days to a "fortnight or three weeks, and in which at the post-mortem examination a definite source of infection can be found, without the presence of such an accumulation of putrid matter in the urinary tract as to render mere septic poisoning probable, and without evident fatal disease of the kidney. Such cases are not uncommonly met with, especially after operations on the urethra, and less frequently after those affecting the bladder. In one case in University College Hospital the source of infection was a slight injury from the point of a catheter to a prominent ridge of a fasciculated bladder. In these cases the wound is found to be covered with an adherent grey layer, closely resembling the false membrane of diphtheria. A section carried through this, and the parts beneath, shows that the membranous layer is composed of a coagulated fibrinous exudation, everywhere crowded Avith micrococci. The submucous tissue and the parts beyond, show the ordinary appearances of inflammation, and in many cases the micrococci can be recognized invading the affected tissues. In some cases further investigation shows the nearest lymphatic glands to be swollen, and micrococci may be found forming colonies in their substance. Under these circumstances there is strong reason to believe that the diseased spot has been the source of the mischief, and that some infective material has found admission from it, and by infecting the whole system has been the cause of death. The relation of these cases to the chronic form of pyaemia is very close ; possibly, the two conditions are identical, the presence or absence of secondary abscesses being merely an accidental variation. The chief peculiarity of the condition is that, although there seems good evidence of a general infective process, it tends to run a somewhat chronic course, sometimes lasting for weeks before terminating fatally, and, probably, in many cases ending in recovery.