1 730 DISEASES OF THE LARYNX. laryngitis, witli nnico-purulent expectoration and gradual loss of voice Gradually increasing dyspnoea is not uncommon from contraction of Ui' opening of the glottis. /)%ms7-..-Syphilitic ulceration of the larynx is recognized by the history of syphihs and the presence of other manifestations of the disease, by thl rigidity of the affected tissues, by the early affection of the epiglottic, the fou grey surfaxie 0 the ulcers, or the presence of adherent yellow slough^, and by he fact hat the ulceration commences in the peripheral parts, and spreads owards the central. The rapidity with which the destruction ^f tissue may take place serves to distinguish it from carcinoma. Treatment~Th(, usual constitutional treatment'of syphihs must be axjtively adopted. Locally a solution of perchloride of mercury (gr. ij. to Sj) may be applied with a sponge or brush, or a preparation of half that strength used as a spray. Iodoform mixed with twice its bulk of starch may be blown into the larynx by means of an ordinary laryngeal insufflator. When healinf. is taking place nitrate of silver may be of use, but it is not so efficacious as in simple chronic laryngitis. Should the dyspnoea become a marked symptom tracheotomy must be performed, unless intubation be tried and found successful. Tuberculous Laryngitis is usually met with only in advanced disease of the lungs, but occasionally it is the earliest sign of phthisis, and the disease may run its course and terminate fatally without the lungs being extensively affected. This variety is sometimes spoken of as Laripigeal Phthisis. The earliest symptoms are merely those of chronic laryngitis. As it advances the voice is lost, there is constant cough, with frothy muco-purulent expectoration and great pain. Deglutition becomes more and more painful, till at last the patient can scarcely be induced to swallow, and death takes place gradually from exhaustion. Laryngoscopic examination may at first show nothing more than marked anaemia of the whole of the larynx without any definite lesion. This should always be looked upon as a suspicious sign, and proper precautionary measures should be taken without delay. Before long, however, a peculiar swelling is observed in the mucous rnembrane cover- ing the arytenoid cartilages and the neighbouring parts of the aryteno- epiglottidean folds. This gives rise to two pyriform swellings of sufficient size to meet in the middle line posteriorly. It is this swollen mass projecting backwards that causes the pain and difficulty in swallowing. Numerous small ulcers then appear, first in the central parts, and subsequently extending to the peripheral. The under surface of the epiglottis may be early affected. These ulcers gradually coalesce and extend, forming crenulated sores, destroying the vocal cords and neighbouring parts. At any stage of the disease dyspnoea may supervene as the result of oedematous swelling. In the later stages, if the patient survive sufficiently long, necrosis of the cartilages may take place. The Diagnosis is made by the presence of disease of the lungs, the peculiar swelling over the arytenoid cartilages, by the multiplicity of the ulcers and their comparatively superficial character, and by the fact that they appear tir.«t in the central parts of the larynx and spread towards the peripheral. One very characteristic mark in pronounced cases is that the whole of the inside of the larynx seems bathed in an abundant creamy secretion. In a doubtful case, the presence of tubercle bacilli in the sputum will confirm the diagnosis. The Treatment of this affection belongs rather to the Physician than the