1262 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. John Marshall The diseased organ, which was about the size of an ostrich s egg, and felt partly solid and partly fluid, was found after remo to be composed of a large cyst filled with an oily fluid, like melted butter which sohdihed on cooling. After removal Marshall found that the ^ contained some foetal cUlms, and it was doubtless of an embryonic charactcT Ihe patient, who was about thirty years of age, had been affected with tlK^ tumour from early infancy. Malignant TuMouiis.-Sarcoma of the testicle without the presence of the cysts just described is not very common. It is indistingm'shable fro,,, cancer before removal, presenting the same rapid growth, and softness of structure, giving rise to a smooth elastic globular or oval enlargement of the testicle. It IS usually met with in younger subjects than cancer, sometime even in young children. Its microscopic structure varies. Small round-celled sarcoma is by far the most common variety, and often runs a very malignant course. Myxo-sarcoma with large spindle cells intermixed with it, has been described. In very rare cases tumours containing striated muscular fibres mixed with spindle cells have been found in the testicle. They exactly resemble the congenital tumours of the same stracture met with in connexion with the kidney. The Treatment consists in early removal of the gland by castration. Carcinoma of the Testicle not unfrequently occurs, and is invariably of the soft glandular variety. Characters.—Cancer of the testicle most commonly occurs in the first instance in the body of that organ, rarely, if ever, aflFecting the epididymis primarily. The ordinary characters of encephaloid are always well marked in this affection ; and the tumour eventually fungates, becoming softened and pulpy. The mass on section is soft, pink in colour, with large yellow patches of fatty degeneration scattered through it. Its substance is often broken down in parts by hgemorrhage. It is impossible to distinguish it from a soft sarcoma without microscopic examination. The microscopic structure is that of a soft glandular carcinoma. The stroma is small in amount but extremely vascular, and encloses spaces of great size filled with large cells of irregular form. A carcinoma of the testicle may rapidly attain a very considerable magni- tude, becoming as large as a cocoa-nut in a few Aveeks or months. When of this size it is, of course, abundantly supphed with blood-vessels ; consequently the spermatic artery and accompanying veins will be found a good deal dilated. The lymphatic glands in the neighbourhood speedily become enlarged, as may be ascertained by deep pressure in the flank. The inguinal glands do not in general become afiected until the skin has become implicated by the process of the disease. It is then also that the cancerous cachexia rapidly develops itself. The Symptoms of carcinoma of the testicle are usually somewhat obscure in the early stages, although they become clearly and distinctly developed as the disease progresses. It is most commonly met with after middle life. The patient first complains of some degree of dragging pain and weight in one of the testes, which on examination will be found to be indurated and enlarged, though preserving its normal shape. The enlargement continues until the testicle attains about the size and shape of a duck's egg, being somewhat tense and elastic, but smooth and heavy. As it increases in size, which it usually does with rapidity, it becomes rounded and somewhat doughy or pulpy