HERNIA. tlon takes place, the first essential condition beine abs^r ™/'='="»r«i. exudation be in excess of that which can be af .f e atold an ^^^^^^^^^^ "'^ ^^"'^adS-irt inS^Iw ' w\errL"; tTnT tZ tre""? T'""^ f „ffv> i- Ai.xi and thus the whole peritoneum ber/imM affected. At the same time there is intense poisoning from the absorprn the chemical products of the process. In fact, in a large proportion o " / this IS he immediate cause of death, and may prove faL Ur the 2 signs of peritonitis become very marked. The 'symptoms are tta of acut septic poisoning, already described (Vol. I, p 971) ^ It does not always happen that diffuse peritonitis occurs when the openiu. m the membrane communicates with a foul wound. Thus congested omentum m the operation for strangulated hernia was formerly ligatured wi h a piece of whipcord, the mass being cut off and the stump and ligature left lying in an open wound to which a poultice was applied. Under these cir- cumstances septic suppuration necessarily occurred, but diffuse peritonitis by no means alvvays followed. In those cases there was a free exit for the discharge from the wound and the opening into the peritoneal cavity became sealed by firm inflammatory exudation in the first few hours before decomposi- tion commenced in the discharges, and thus the danger was averted. This is however, an uncertain barrier, and these exceptional cases do not justify us in neglectmg any precaution by which the contact of septic pus with the peritoneum can be avoided. The prevention of septic peritonitis and its consequences is carried out on two principles : first, by the use of antiseptics in such a way as to exclude any living orgamsms from the cavity ; and secondly, by draining the cavity in all those cases m which an amount of exudation is expected beyond that which will immediately be re-absorbed. Considerable difference of opinion exists as to the relative value of these methods, some Surgeons maintaining that if antiseptics are properly used drainage is scarcely ever required ; and others that, if the peritoneal cavity be thoroughly cleansed before closing the wound, and drainage be efficiently employed if necessary, antiseptic applications are scarcely required. This is not the place to discuss this disputed point. It must, however, be insisted upon that the thorough removal of blood and other putrescible matter by sponging and irrigation is of primary importance. The great value of antiseptics in abdominal operations cannot be doubted, but the introduction of powerful chemical irritants into the peritoneal cavity must be avoided. The irritation produced by them necessarily causes an increased amount of exudation, and brings about just the condition which it is the object of the Surgeon to avoid. Antiseptics are of the greatest value in pre- venting the introduction of septic matter during the operation, but all fluids introduced into the abdomen for purposes of irrigation, should be as little irritating as possible. Drainage, which, to say the least, is an inconvenience, can safely be dispensed with in the majority of cases. The introduction of a drainage tube is, however, a wise precaution in any case where further effusion of blood or inflammatory exudation is likely to occur after the operation.