ANEURISM. 138 up without much pain or inconvenience. If possible, the patieut should be taught how to manage the instrument himself, and will often find occupation and amusement in doing so. If, however, it excite much pain or irritation, it may be necessary to give opiates or chloral hydrate. The pressure should, if possible, be continued during sleep ; but if it prevent the patient from taking liis natural rest, the suggestion made by Tufnell, of unscrewing the instrument slightly, and, when the patient is asleep, gently tightening it again without awakening him, may advantageously be adopted ; it is indeed surprising how very little unscrewing will relieve the pain of the compression. A large cradle should be placed over the patient's body, so that the weight of the bed-clothes may be taken off the apparatus, and that the patient may manage it without risk of disturbance. Should there still be much uneasiness, the instrument might be taken off for a few hours, and compression kept up in an inter- mittent manner. Even in such circumstances as these, consolidation of the sac may ensue. The employment of a iveight may sometimes ad- vantageously be substituted for the clamp, and often occasions less distress to the patient. For this pur- pose the apparatus shown in Fig. 464 will be found very useful, h. very simple instrument is Tufnell's compressor, I'epresented in Figs. 465, 466. It consists of little more than a trnss-spring, with a pad to compress the artery, and straps to fix it in its place, and increase, by being tightened, the force of the compression. Compression under Anaesthetics.—In some cases, in which, from the situation of the aneurism, deep and severe pressure is required to control the circulation, the pain becomes so unendurable that the patient cannot submit to the treatment suffi- ciently long for a good effect to be produced. Opium or chloral hydrate may then possibly enable him to bear the pressure, but more complete narcotism is often necessary. In these circum- stances chloroform becomes a most useful adjunct: and by prolonging the anaesthesia for several hours, the amount and duration of pressure requisite to effect a rapid cure may be maintained. In this way W. Murray of K'ewcastle—to whom is due the merit of first employing prolonged ansesthesia as an adjunct to compres- sion—cured an aneurism of the abdominal aorta by keeping up pressure on that vessel for five hours under chloroform. Heath of Newcastle cured an aneurism of the external iliac by compressing the abdominal aorta for seven hours under chloroform ; Mapother of Dublin treated an ilio-femoral aneurism successfully by compressing the common iliac artery for four and a half hours: and Lawson cured an inguinal aneurism by pressure on the abdominal aorta for four hours. In two cases of popliteal aneurism I kept up completely obstructing pressure on the common femoral artery, under chloroform, for twelve hours. By these means the only serious objection to the employment of pressure, and the most common cause of its failure, may be prevented ; and it is clear that, under chloroform, pressure may be applied to arteries, Fig. 464.—P. H. Watson's Weight Compressor. Tlie ciroular dotted Une shows the position of the linib.