TREATMENT OF HYPOSPADIAS. 1217 the labia majova which covev the vascular ''"'^^ "^P^St but a small spongiosum of tbo male. T'-^. mX it form ftht gil of the r the r^ld^ l'rt.rr;^^'a. ape..;^e uuk fo^-mio. oi^usr n'^ osu^ in the clitoris, the glans being an isolated nodule :? Se tilsne In the male the erectile tissue is continuous around the in proTo? to the degree of the malformation the male organs come more cLe y to resemble the female in appearance. Hypospadias appears .n th e 1'r es In the simplest form the glans is cleft along its under surface, the n emce also showino- a corresponding gap. In the second degree the corpora aml gians are well developed, but the urethra is cleft to the roo of 'rpenT and thus resembles a large clitoris. The under surface shows a fur- row in he line of the urethra, usually covered by a moist mucous membrane. Between the glans penis and the point at which the urethra terminates a hrm den e bai^ of" fibrous tissue is often present, somewhat resembling m hardness and tension the cicatrix of a burn. In these cases when erection takes place the organ assumes a crescentic shape, with the convexity upwards, the ense hard cord that has just been mentioned stretching across its arc like the string of a bow, thus rendering connexion impossible, and the sufferer practically impotent. The third and most extreme form of hypospadias is when the scrotum also is cleft and the urethra opens in the perineum. This is usually accompanied by imperfect development of the penis, and by retained testicles. It is this malformation that has erroneously been considered to be an example of hermaphroditism. The cleft empty scrotum resembles the labia of the female and the diminutive penis may readily be taken for a large clitoris. Hypospadias affects only the parts in front of the membranous portion ot the urethra, and consequently never leads to incontinence of urine. Treatment.—The first degree of hypospadias requires no treatment, the cleft glans being not even an inconvenience. Intermediate degrees between the first and second require treatment only if the urethra is so short that the semen cannot enter the vagina during connexion, or if there is a tight band beneath. . ,. ^ In the second degree of hypospadias, the first step is to dissect away the firm fibrous band which prevents complete erection. Some months after this " has been successfully accomplished, and when the scars have become supple, the attempt may be made to close the urethra. In order to do this success- fully, it is necessary to provide an epithelium-covered lining for the new urethra. Many methods have been suggested for doing this, but by far the best is that of Anger, which is an adaptation to hypospadias of Thiersch's operation for epispadias. It is thus performed : An incision is made parallel 4 I VOL. II. t J.