CANCER OF THE SCROTUM. 1229 ise to -reat effusion into and swelling of the areolar tissue of this part and of e p ni with a tendency to rapid sloughing, by which the in egument may ^ P «....„^ ...1. ovf.r,f n.« to lav bare the testes. This disease usually ,eeome affected to such an extent as to lay bare the testes. . iginates from some local source of irritation, as hssures, ^ff^^'^^^v xtmvasation (Vol. L, p. 957). There is a peculiar form of - mflamma oiy .denia" of the scrotum and penis, which is apt to occur as a sequela ot .uall-pox and scarlet fever ; rapid and extensive infiltration of the parts occurs ,vith a tendency to speedy gangrenous disorganization of the areolar tissue and '^The Treatment consists in elevating the scrotum, fomenting it well, and making early and free incisions into it, particularly at the posterior and lependent parts of the scrotum and penis, with the vip.w of rehevmg he tension and thus preventing the liability to slough. Should this occur the > ase must be treated on ordinary principles, when cicatrization will speedily ensue, however extensive the denudation of parts may be. The constitutiona nmnagement must be conducted with special attention to the maintenance of the patient's strength. -i j 4- Elephantiasis of the Scrotum has already been described at p. 42. Squamous Carcinoma occasionally affects the scrotum ; and as it occurs principally in chimney-sweeps, it has appropriately enough been termed ( Umneij-s'weeps' Cancer. The disease appears to arise from the irritation of ihe soot lodging in the folds of the scrotum (Vol. I., p. 1054). It may also occur in workers in tar and paraffin. Butlin, who recently lectured on this subject before the Royal College of Surgeons, does not think that there is . sufficient evidence to show that the generally accepted opinion that chimney- sweeps' cancer is much rarer now than formerly is founded on fact. He concludes that the rarity of the disease on the Continent is due to the adoption of a special costume by foreign sweeps which protects them from the soot.^ The disease commonly commences as a tubercle or wart, which after a time ci-acks and ulcerates, and assumes the ordinary characters of a carcinomatous ulcer. It gradually spreads, and may at last involve the greater part of the scrotum, and even invade the testis. After a time the inguinal and pelvic glands may be affected ; and the patient, if deprived of his covering of soot, will be found to be cachectic-looking. Butlin has made the interesting suggestion that certain rare instances, in which a carcinomatous growth in the inguinal glands has occurred without any evidence of the existence of a primary tumour, may be explained by supposing that the primary growth has failed to develop although it has caused infection i)f the lymphatics. The Treatme7it consists in excising widely the diseased portion of the scrotum, provided the inguinal glands be not involved to such an extent as to render any attempt to remove them inadvisable. The disease has a great tendency 10 recur, and the recurrent growth may arise, not in the position of the original tumour, but in some other part of the scrotum, the skin of which is usually thickened and warty. Recurrence in the glands is not uncommon.