ACUTE ARTHRITIS: DIAGNOSIS AND PATHOLOGY. 333 severe cases chronic thickening of the synovial membrane and other parts occurs, perhaps with sinuses leading down to the diseased structures ; and hi some of the more favourable instances the patient may recover, with a per- manently rigid joint. , The muscles in the neighbourhood of an inflamed jomt often rapidly atrophy and become more or less paralysed. These changes, which have been carefully studied by Le Fort, Charcot and others, are evidently not merely the result of disuse. It is indeed generally believed that the paralysis is induced reflexlyas the result of the disease of the joint. That disuse alone is not the sole cause of the paialysis and wasting is suggested by the fact that only certain of the inactive muscles are usually affected. Thus, in disease of the knee, the extensor muscles chiefly suffer ; in affections of the shoulder the deltoid alone may waste ; whilst in disease of the hip the gluteal muscles are chiefly affected. The electrical reactions of the muscles undergo a marked change so that httle or no contraction is produced by either the galvanic or the faradic current. In this there is a marked difference from true atrophic paralysis in which the galvanic excitability is increased. In a case of paralysis of the extensors following an injury of the knee Charcot found that the patellar teudon reflex was not abolished. The paralysis is extremely chronic. It will last for many months after the joint affection, from which it starts, has been cured, and it may lead to permanent atrophy of the paralyzed muscles. The ti'eatment consists in stimulation of the affected muscles, by sea-douches, electricity, and frictions, combined with methodical movements of the limb. Strychnine may be given with advantage when the lower limbs are affected. I have seen this reflex arthritic paralysis chiefly in persons suffering from spinal exhaustion, in neurotic women and in men addicted to sexual excesses. Diagnosis.—Abscess may form external to, but iu immediate contact with the capsule of a joint, and closely simulate disease of the articulation. In these cases the absence of serious constitutional disturbance, the irregularity of the swelling, greater on one side than on the other, its extension over bony points, as the patella or olecranon, the superficial character of the fluctuation, the absence of all rigidity about the joint or of that preternatural mobility in a horizontal direction which arises from softening of the ligaments, and of other severe local symptoms, such as pain, starting, looseness, or grating, will enable the Surgeon to make a correct diagnosis. Pathology.—It is very rarely that the opportunity arises of examining a joint affected with acute arthritis before it has reached the stage of suppura- tion. In that stage all the component parts of the joint will be found to present marked changes, varying somewhat with the cause and the degree of acuteness of the inflammatory process. The following may be taken as the appearances in a typical case. The synovial memlrane is thickened and intensely injected ; if the disease has advanced beyond the earliest stage, the membrane is no longer recognizable as such, being converted into a layer of granulation tissue, the site of the fringes being marked by fleshy vascular projections of the same tissue. The granulations are seldom healthy ; most commonly they present the same appearance as those on the surface of an inflamed ulcer of the leg, being covered by a dirty yellowish layer composed of degenerated granulation-cells held together by coagulated inflammatory exudation. If the joint has been