DISEASE OF THE SACRO-ILIAC JOINT. 4o8 5. Disease of the pelvic lones may of course occur independently of any affec- tion of the sacro-iliac articulation ; and, when so occurring, it most commonly commences at a distance from the joint—the crest of the ilium, the tuberosity of the ischium, or the acetabulum, being the usual seats of the disease. When it occurs in the first of these two situations, the resulting abscess seldom attains a very large size, and is altogether above or below the articulation, the outline of which can be clearly felt and is unobscured by swelling. When the abscesses are opened, the sinuses that result will lead directly down to tlio rough and carious bone, examination of which will leave no doubt as to the nature of the case. In these cases, also, no change takes place in the length of the limb, or in the position of the side of the ilium. When the acetabulum is affected, the difficulty of diagnosis may be greater, in consequence of the large size and often intrapelvic nature of the abscesses. But here the same circumstances that enable the Surgeon to make a diagnosis in ordinary hip disease—viz., the pain in movement influencing the hip-joint merely, and the alteration in length of limb, as determined on measuring from the anterior superior spines—will prevent his falling into error as to the true nature of this disease. In doubtful cases of intrapelvic abscess rectal examination may be useful. The Prognosis of sacro-iliac disease is more unfavourable than that of tuber- culous joint aifections in general, and this can no doubt partly be accounted for by the fact that it tends to occur in adults, and further that the anatomical relations of the joint render thorough operative treatment difficult. The more favourable prognosis when the disease occurs in children is doubtless partly due, as Makins suggests, to the light weight of the trunk. Of recent years considerable success has followed the treatment of sacro-iliac disease upon the same principles as are applied to tuberculous joint disease elsewhere. The prognosis is necessarily much better if the formation of an abscess can be avoided. I have seen a case cured, in which, from the history of the symp- toms, the thickening over the sacro-iliac articulations, and the permanent displacement of the side of the pelvis, there was every reason to believe that this disease had existed. The Treatment must as far as possible be conducted on the same general principles as are adopted in tuberculous diseases of other joints. In the early stages complete rest is essential, and if a cure be fortunately accompHshed, the patient will probably recover with a limb that, though weakened, is but little impaired in utility ; for the sacro-iliac junction being naturally a fixed joint, it matters little if, in the adult, it become ankylosed by disease. Long con- tinued rest in the prone position ; fixing the pelvis, hip-joint, and thigh by means of a large leather cap and splint, or a plaster of Paris bandage, which should embrace the whole of the limb from above the crest of the ihum to the sole of the foot; counter-irritation ; the administration of cod-liver oil, iron, and suitable tonics, are the means to be employed. In children a double Thomas's' splint should be applied to which the pelvis may be fixed by a plaster of Paris bandage. If an abscess forms this must be freely opened and the cavity thoroughly scraped and flushed. The edges of the incision being held apart, careful search must be made with a probe for a track leading towards the joint. If this enter it directly on the inner side of the posterior superior iliac spine the track should be enlarged and the articulation thoroughly scraped, special