DERMOID CYSTS OF THE TESTICLE. 1261 I any considerable size. They are firm and elastic, and ^-f^^^^^f^^^tZ J nncommonly be detected in them. The cord is unaffected t, 1 a late per od unless they become malignant. The epididymis is early flattened out by the giwth and cannot be recognized. If not removed they may attain a ve y , Ireat size, and at last the skin covering them may give way and the growth I may f ungate and bleed. . -i. iiagnosis.-The tumour is distinguished from hydrocele by its want of translucency, its more globular form and its weight. All doubt may be cleared up by an exploratory puncture. Treatment.—The only treatment is early removal, always preceded by an incision into the mass to make sure that it is not a hsematocele or a hydrocele. . Enchondroma of the Testicle—Cartilage, as before stated, is almost always present in the adenoma of the testis. It may, however, appear alone, in larger or smaller nodules, or infiltrating the gland. It usually commences in the body, and may invade the epididymis. According to Cornil and Eanvier, whenever it reaches any considerable size it is no longer purely cartilaginous, but is mixed with sarcoma tissue and complicated with cysts, so that both clinically and pathologically it merges into the disease just described as cystic sarcoma. Fibroma has been recorded, but is of extremely rare occurrence. Dermoid Cysts are occasionally met with in the testicle, usually in the body of the gland, causing atrophy of the tubular substance by their pressure. They are of course congenital, but are of very slow growth, and may not be noticed till adult hfe. They usually contain turbid fluid or an atheromatous pulp, often mixed with hairs. In other cases they may lie outside the gland in contact with the epididymis. A case of this kind occurred in University College Hospital lately in which the cyst, which was about the size of the normal gland, lay in contact with the globus minor. It was dissected away without injuring the gland, and was probably a scrotal dermoid which had become adherent to the epididymis. In other cases fcetal remains may be found in the cyst. One of the most remarkable of these tumours that I have seen was under the care of the late