722 DISEASES OF THE aJSOPIIAGUS inuous stitch is inserted ia such a way as lo approxi'atate L s^e'rouf he stomach to the skin, leaving exposed an arerof tl fo iner to a sh.lhno, In the centre of this two silk sutures about irirdTf an ino, apart are inserted ; the ends of these, which are left long a^d not knoS serve as guides to the stomach when it is subsequently opened T s m hoi 0 sutunng, winch differs only slightly from that recommended by KoTtt been variously modified. Thus Greig Smith passes a continuous c rl ar uture, which is le t projecting in loops at short intervals. Each oop hi^aded on a needle, brought out through the abrlominal wall, and Swn tight over a piece of indiarubber tube slipped through it. Some operators rw';rAf T^^' ^'.^ ^^^^ P^^^^"^ two^.are-lip pinsThltgh tne wall of the stomach, transversely to the direction of the wound After the operation a small quantity of beef-tea may be introduced into the stomach with the finest aspirator-needle if the patient is very exhausted, and this may be repeated daily, but if the strength is fairly good he should be nourished for the next four or, if possible, five days by nutritive enemata tJy that time the stomach will have formed firm adhesions, and may safely be opened. This is done by gently drawing forward the two silk sutures already m position and puncturing the stomach between them with a sharp tenotome ihe opening should be large enough to admit a l^o. 10 india-rubber catheter' which may be secured by twisting the silk stitches round it. At first only milk or pancreatized food should be introduced, but, as the stomach becomes stronger, minced meat, bread, and other food may be used. The risk of peritonitis has been very greatly diminished, first by the adoption of the method of operating in two stages, and secondly by the use of antiseptics. The advantage of delaying the opening till firm adhesions have formed is clearly shown by the statistics published by C. L. Vitringa, who has collected altogether the records of 155 cases of gastrostomy. From these he shows that before the introduction of antiseptic treatment 55 per cent, of the patients died directly from the operation, but since that period the death-rate has been reduced to 27 per cent. If the antiseptic cases are divided into those in which the opening was made into the stomach at the time of the operation and those in which it was delayed till adhesions had formed, we find the death-rate was 53 per cent, in the former and only 17-5 per cent, in the latter. In many cases, although the patient does not die directly from the operation, life is but little prolonged by it, as the stomach seems unable to resume its functions. This most commonly has happened in cases of malignant stricture, in which the operation has been deferred till the patient was in the last stage of exhaustion. Thi s is clearly shown by the statistics collected by Gross of 167 cases in Avhich the operation was performed for malignant stricture. Of these 117 died within the first month, 49 directly from the operation, 28 more died under ten months, and only 1 survived a year. In such cases the advantages and the dangers of the operation must be laid fairly before the patient, but it is not the duty of the Surgeon to urge him to submit to it. In cicatricial strictures, on the other hand, when death from starvation is otherwise inevitable, the Surgeon is justified in advising the operation. Gross has collected 37 cases of this kind. Of these 20 died within a month, 11 directly fi-om the operation. Of the remaining 17, 9 survived to the fourth