I048 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. M from 24 ounces to 10 grains in weight, and in the children from t\ ounces to 35 grains. The bhidder was sutui-ed in 18 children, with 8 successes, and in 8 adults with only 2. In one case tlie operation had to be abandoned owing to the peritoneum covering the bladder as low as the pubes. Lastly, Gilbert Barling has collected IC.) operations performed in thirteen Hospitals in this country during the years 1888 to ]8!)2 inclusive. Of these 26 died, or 1 in 6-5, giving a mortahty of 15-4 per cent. Four of the deatlis can hardly be attributed to the operation, as in 8 lithotrity and in 1 lateral Fig. 853.—Lithotomy Scalpel. lithotomy had been attempted before it was undertaken. Of the remaining 22 deaths, 7 were due to disease of the kidneys, 3 to peritonitis, 2 to shock, 2 to septicasmia, 1 each to cellulitis, bronchitis, pneumonia, scarlet fever, secondary hasmorrhage, exhaustion ; in 2 no cause was given. Lateral Lithotomy,—The removal of a stone from the bladder through an incision in the left side of the perinseum was first performed by Frere Pig. 854.—Probe-pointed Lithotomy Knife. Jacques, who demonstrated his operation in Paris in 1697. The operation was first performed on definite anatomical and surgical principles by Cheselden of St. Thomas's Hospital, and his method, modified by Listen, is that now generally adopted. Instruments, &c.—The table for operating must be of convenient height, so that when the Surgeon sits on a rather low stool the patient's nates will be on a level with his breast; a few blankets doubled should be laid upon the Fig. 855.—Open-bladed Lithotomy-forceps, lined with linen. table, and covered by a piece of mackintosh cloth hanging over the end : and a tray of sawdust placed under it on the floor. The instruments necessary are the following :—a pair of lithotomy-tapes, a sharp and probe-pointed scalpel, a staff, forceps, and scoops of various sizes, and a tube. To these may be added a searcher, and a brass injecting syringe. The tapes should be of coarse flannel, about three yards long.by three inches broad. The scalpel should be broad-bladed and straight-backed. For the adult it may be of the size and the shape represented (Fig. 853) ; for children it may