TREATMENT OF LATERAL CURVATURE. 523 \vi s;une in th the naked hand, or with a slightly stimulating embrocation. At the ._. time, if the patient's strength will permit it, the use of the hand-swing ay be al'lowed. A simple plan consists in hanging a cross-bar from two 1 looks in the top of a doorway at such a height that the patient can just [•each it by raising herself on her toes. Whilst the spine is extended in this way the douching and massage may be practised. Bernard Eoth, who has paid particular attention to the treatment of lateral curvature by the employment of regular muscular exercises, has formulated a series which will be found most valuable. Without describing each exercise in detail, it may be useful to indicate some of the chief ones. Whilst the patient lies flat on the back four slow deep inspirations are taken, with the arms by the side and afterwards extended over the head ; rotation and lateral flexion of the head are then slowly repeated four times ; circumduction of both shoulders with the elbows extended, and then of each hip separately, is next performed ten or twelve times. The circumduction of the hips is also practised while the patient lies in the prone position. Another exercise consists in the patient lying prone on a flat table with the head and shoulders projecting over the end and slowly flexing and extending the spine. No exercises must be suffi- ciently prolonged to cause actual fatigue, and after them the patient should vest awhile on a couch or chair. Eoth has insisted upon the importance of I ascertaining in what position the deformity of the spine is best relieved—as by extending one arm above the head and holding the other at right angles with the trunk—and making the daily assumption of this position for a variable time part of the treatment. The recumbent position in the treatment of lateral curvature of the spine, though a valuable means as an adjunct to other measures, has been greatly abused. In some cases of great weakness the patient must be kept lying during the greater part of the day, but in the majority of cases pro- longed rest on the back is harmful by increasing the muscular weakness, and should only be prescribed for resting the patient after walking or the per- formance of muscular exercises. Mechanical contrivances of all kinds should, as far as possible, be avoided. Great evil may be occasioned and the deformity increased by the unnecessary employment of cumber- some machinery. The heavy apparatus that is often applied to growing girls overpowers and compresses, rather than -supports and directs, the imperfectly •leveloped and still yielding skeleton. By the use of complicated machines the muscles of the back become weakened and atrophied from disuse ; the pelvis IS compressed and contracted ; and those very evils are produced by the iQcchanician which it is the object of the Surgeon to avert or correct. In some long-standing and severe cases however, in which the deformity Fig. 027 -Spinal Support for Advanced Lateral Curvature.