240 ^VECIAL ANEURISMS. convenient situation for the apiolication of the ligature ; but experience has shown that deligation of the vessel here is by no means a successful operation, especially when undertaken for aneurism. This arises from the shortness of the trunk rendering it necessary to tie the artery in close proximity to the collateral branch that will constitute the most direct and immediate agent in the anastomosing supply,—viz., the deep femoral, so that the internal coagulum would not readily form. In addition to this, a number of small inguinal branches, the superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac, the superior and inferior external pudic, and very commonly one of the circumflex arteries of the thigh, more especially the internal, arise from the common trunk in its short course ; and these vessels, though small in size, constitute a source of great embarrassment to the Surgeon during the operation ; for, if wounded near their origin, they bleed furiously, and are a cause of subsequent danger, by interfering with the proper plugging of the vessel. The ligature of the common femoral has, however, had several advocates, more particularly in Ireland, where the operation has been done nine times, for wound and aneurism, with six recoveries and three deaths. The successful cases were oi^ follows : Porter, sen., three ; Gr. H. Porter, one ; Smyly, one ; Macnamara, one. In the American War, however, the operation is reported to have been performed in eighteen cases with only four recoveries ; and Barwell states that out of thirty-one cases in which the artery was tied for aneurism, h^moiThage occurred in eighteen, and of these twelve died. The vessel may be reached by a vertical or a transverse incision ; of these the former is preferable. The incision commences at Poupart's ligament, at a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior ihac spine, and is carried downwards in the Hne of the artery for about two inches ; the skin, fat, and superficial fascia are divided, and the lymphatic glands removed or turned on one side. The fascia lata is then divided, and the crural sheath exposed. This must carefully be opened over the artery, and the needle passed from the inner side. The femoral vein lies to the inner side, and the anterior crural nerve a short distance away on the other side. The origin of the branches is very uncertain ; the Surgeon must select that part of the vessel for ligature which is most distant from any branch. The statistics of this operation are so unfavourable, especially when per- formed for aneurism, and secondary htemorrhage has heeu so frequent and fatal an occurrence, that I do not think it advisable to have recourse to this operation in preference to ligature of the external ihac ; and it may be laid down as a rule in surgery, that in all those cases of aneurism that are situated above the middle of the thigh, in which compression has failed and sufficient space does not intervene between the origin of the deep femoral and the upper part of the sac for the application of a hgature to the superficial femoral, the external iliac should be tied. Ligature of the Superficial Femoral.—The superficial femoral artery, in its course from the origin of the profunda to the aperture in the tendon of the adductor magnus, is divided by the sartorius into two portions of unequal length, which have different relations to neighbouring structures. The upper division of the artery, Avhich lies above the inner margin of the muscle, is of most interest to the Surgeon, as it is in this part of its course that it is invariably ligatured in cases of aneurism. It is true that John Hunter, in the operation which he introduced for popliteal aneurism, exposed