SARCOMA OF THE BREAST. 79i • bvthe tact that in the former the cysts occupy the substance of an encapsuled tumour and in the latter case occupy the substance of the breast itself. From a cystic' sarcoma the distinction may be difficult, and will depend chiefly on the perfect circumscription of the cysto-adenoma, and often the long duration of the growth. . , . , i Treatment.—The probable explanation of recorded cases in which supposed fibro-adenomata have been cured by the application of counter-irritants, ab- sorbents, or pressure, is that the tumour was in reality an indurated lobule of the breast, and the same may probably be true of tumours which have dis- appeared after marriage or during pregnancy. Kemoval of the tumour is the only efficient treatment, and this should, as a general rule, be recommended even though the growth be small and stationary, on the ground that at any time it may rapidly increase in size and assume serious proportions. The tumour must be exposed by a single incision radiating from the nipple, so as to injure the mammary tissue as little as possible. The loose capsule of areolar tissue surrounding it should be thoroughly opened, after which it can often be shelled out without further use of the knife. There are usually lew vessels to tie. In exceptional cases the growth may be adherent to the breast by a pedicle, necessitating the removal of a small lobe of the gland. As these tumours usually lie at the margin of the breast, or sometimes deeply beneath it, the loose submammary areolar tissue is ol'ten opened up. When the tumour is seated more superficially this may possibly be avoided by keeping the knife close to it in dissecting it out. When the submammary tissue is opened up it is very important to prevent extravasation of blood into it, or the occurrence of suppuration. These accidents are avoided by the strictest attention to antiseptic precautions during the operation, by the perfect arrest of all bleeding before closing the wound, and by the application of an absorbent antiseptic dressing exerting uniform elastic pressure on the part. Soft fibro-adenomata and cysto-adenomata can, as a rule, be removed with ease, even though they have reached some pounds in weight. In some cases, especially when a cysto-adenoma has burst through the skin, it is found neces- sary to remove the whole breast with the tumour. The operation should be carried out in the same way as for malignant tumours, except that only such skin as is actually attached to the growth need be sacrificed. MALIGNANT TUMOURS Or THE BREAST. Sarcoma of the Breast.—The mammary gland or its immediate neigh- i bourhood is a not unfrequent seat of sarcoma. By far the most common form f is the spindle-celled sarcoma, usually of the large-celled variety. Sometimes I the firmer form of spindle-celled sarcoma, with small cells and a varying i amount of fibrous stroma—the old " recurrent fibroid "—is met with in this > region. Small round-celled sarcoma, alveolar sarcoma, and giant-celled sar- ! coma may also occur, but are all rare. The structure of these various forms ■ of sarcoma has already been fully described in the Chapter on Tumours (Vol. I., p. 1035 et seq.). Most sarcomata of the breast are distinctly encapsuled by a layer of fibrous tissue in the early stages of their growth, but later on they tend to spread ■ beyond this, and infiltrate the surrounding structures. They usually develop in women after thirty, and form soft, elastic tumoui-s,