466 DISEASES OF THE FOOT. thus torn through, or if these have beeu disorganized and softened by disease, it may readily enough be removed as just described ; but if the osseous tissue itself be softened, and the ligamentous connexions tolerably sound, then the operation becomes extremely troublesome. The result of this operation is very satisfactoiy ; a good and movable articu- lation may be left between the malleoli and the calcaneum, and the limb is but little shortened. According to Hancock, of 109 cases in which the astragalus was removed, 76 recovered with good and useful limbs ; secondary amputa- tion was performed in two, with one death ; 10 others died ; and in 14 the results are not known. The operation was performed in 64 cases for com- pound dislocation, with 50 complete recoveries ; in 20 of simple dislocation, with 14 complete recoveries ; and in 10 for caries, perfect recovery taking place in 6. 2. When the disease has extended from the astragalus into the ankle-joint, the operative treatment must be carried out on the lines already considered at p. 457. 3. When the disease has extended from the astragalus upivards into the malleolar arch, and doivnwards into the calcaneum, the line of practice will depend on the extent to which the os calcis is implicated. If this be only partly involved, its upper surface only being affected, a great deal may be done by conservative surgery. The treatment in such cases consists, generally, in removing the astragalus from its bed, and gouging away any diseased bone which may exist either on the upper surface of the calcaneum or on the under surface of the malleolar arch. Very large portions of bone may be removed from this situation. I have taken away the whole of the malleolar arch and astragalus, and gouged out the upper surface of the os calcis very freely ; and yet the patient has recovered with a strong and movable foot, but very little deformed. The accompanying cuts (Fig. 597) were taken from a young man on whom I performed the operation just described. The foot was perfectly useful and strong, and the false joint at the ankle movable. When extensive disease of the os calcis is associated with disease of the astragalus and ankle-joint, Syme's amputation is usually required, but if from the extensive destruction of the skin this operation is impracticable the only alternative to amputation in the leg is the osteoplastic resection described below. 4. If the disease have extended from the astragalus to the scaphoid, and thence into the anterior range of tarsal joints, the foot will have become so extensively disorganized, that partial resection will be of Httle or no service ; and disarticu- lation at the ankle-joint should be practised. Osteoplastic Resection of the Foot.—This operation, which was first performed by Wladimiroff of Kasan, and MikuHcz of Prague, has been prac- tised and especially advocated in this country by MacCormac. It is available for cases of disease of the ankle, astragalus, and calcaneum m which the soft parts in the neighbourhood of the heel are extensively destroyed, as well as for cases of severe injury of the same parts. The operation is thus described by MacCormac. The patient being placed in the prone position, a transverse incision is made across the sole of the foot from a point just in front of the tubercle of the scaphoid to a point behind the tuberosity of the fifth metatarsal bone From each extremity of this incision another is carried obliquely upwards and backwards over the corresponding malleolus, and these are joined