CYSTIC TUMOURS OF BONE. 313 the tibia, and the upper end of the humerus. Their structure has been described and figured with Tumours (Vol. I., p. 1025). The Symptoms of exostosis are simply those produced by a hard and I slowly growing tumour, connected with a bone and pushing forwards the soft parfs covering it. In many'cases it produces serious inconvenience by its pressure, either upon neighbouring organs or mucous canals ; or it may occa- sion ulceration of the skin lying above it. In some cases, the presence of an i exostosis ma be connected with an arrest of development of the bone from which it springs. Thus I have seen the lower, third of the ulna completely arrested in its development by the formation of an exostosis at the lower part of the middle third, the bone being permanently shortened and dwarfed below this point. Treatment.—If an exostosis be so situated as to occasion inconvenience or deformity, it will be necessary to remove it; and as it is a local disease, there is no fear of its return, provided this be fully done. If, however, the whole of it be not taken away, it may grow again. The removal of these tumours is best effected with a Hey's saw, or cutting forceps, or a chisel and maUet. In some situations, as when close upon joints, or springing from the cervical vertebrse, they cannot be interfered with ; and in other cases, as occasionally happens in the neighbourhood of the orbit, their density and hardness may be such that the saw can scarcely work its way through them. The Spongy Exostosis of the Ungual Phalanx of the Great Toe is of such frequent occurrence as to deserve special attention. It springs from the upper surface of the phalanx, near its anterior extremity,, pushing the nail upwards and backwards. It may reach the size of half a cherry and project beyond the nail, giving rise to great pain and inconvenience in walking. The only treatment is complete removal of the growth with the cartilage covering it from which it grows, as if any of this be left behind, the tumour will recur. The removal is thus effected. The toe must be made bloodless by Esmarch's method. The nail is then removed in order to expose the growth thoroughly. A circular incision is then made round the tumour to the bone, and the base is cut through with a gouge or chisel. The tumour should then be carefully examined, and if it appears that any of the cartilage covering it has been lefc behind, this should be cut away with a gouge. Chondromata or Cartilaginous Tumours of Bone are often met with. These have already been described when speaking of enchondroma and its pathology (Vol. I. p. 1022,), and need not, consequently, be more than alluded to here. They usually require resection or amputation of the affected bone, accordmg to the attachment and size of the growth. Fibroma of Bone.—Fibromata are not common in bone ; when they do occur they spring from the periosteum. The situation in which they are most frequently met with is the base of the skull, from which they project down- wards into the pharynx and posterior nares, forming the disease known as tibrous polypus of the nose (see Diseases of the Nose). They are also occa- sionally met with in connexion with the jaws. Cystic Tumours of Bone are extremely rare, if we exclude those met with m the jaws, which arise in connexion with the teeth, and those in which the cysts are merely an accidental formation in a solid tumour. The cvstic umours described by the older writers under the name oi Spina Ventosa ^x^ always sarcomatous growths in which cysts have developed.