1068 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. solutions Should it prove serious, however, the actual cautery may bP employed. In a case that occurred to me, the bleeding on the ninth da/w^ stopped by applying the actual cautery. *^ ^ Cystitis is, in my experience, a rare sequence of lateral lithotomy I hav. however, seen it occui-, attended by the secretion of large quantities of viscid ropy mucus from the bladder, coming away two or three days after the opera tion, with tenderness in the suprapubic region. It may exist before the operation, or may be produced by long-continued or rough manipulations with the forceps in searching for the stone, or by the irritation of the tube It i« more commonly caused by accumulation of putrid urine in a pouch behind the prostate. The symptoms are apt to simulate those of pelvic peritonitis The Ireahnent consists of fomentations above the pubes, abundant diluents and washing out the bladder through the wound with Condy's fluid diluted'with tepid water. Diffuse Inflammation of the Areolar Tissue of the Pelvis, especially of the layers around the neck of the bladder, between it and the rectum, which extend thence under the peritoneum, is the most frequent cause of death after lateral lithotomy. This inflammation, which is always diffuse, followed by rapid sloughing of the textures that it invades, may arise from two causes : 1. From the urine being infiltrated into the areolar tissue, in consequence of the incision extending beyond the limits of the prostate, into the loose layers of tissue that lie behind the recto-vesical fascia and around the bladder ; 2. In consequence of the bruising and laceration to which the neck of the bladder, the prostate, and the textures between it and the rectum, are subjected, in prolonged attempts to extract a large calculus through too small an incision. 1. The danger of Gutting begond the Lateral Ligament of the Bladder in the adult, and thus opening up the loose areolar tissue beyond it, has already been referred to at p. 1054. The urine, as it escapes through the wound, soaks into the meshes of the loose tissue over which it flows, and thus gives rise to infiltration, followed by rapidly extending inflammation and sloughing, which speedily involve the whole of the neighbouring textures. This mischief generally occurs withia the first forty-eight hours ; indeed, I have never seen it come on after the third day. It is indicated by the patient being seized with rigors, followed by dry heat of skin, a quick pulse, which, after a time, may become intermittent, and a dry and brown tongue. At the same time he will complain of some tenderness about the lower part of the abdomen, and in the groins ; the belly becomes tympanitic, the body is covered with a profuse sweat; hiccough comes on, the pulse becomes fluttering, and death usually occurs about the fourth or fifth day after the operation. In some cases, there are more decided signs of peritonitis ; but, as Brodie very truly remarks, this is only induced secondarily by the inflammation of the areolar tissue of the pelvis spreading to the peritoneum. The Treatment of such cases must be conducted on the ordinary principles that guide us in the management of diffuse inflammations. It is only by ad- ministering ammonia, with such a quantity of wine or brandy as the state of the system may indicate, together with such nourishment as the patient can take, that life can be preserved. Brodie recommended that a free incision should be made through the sloughy tissues about the wound into the rectum. In one case he saved the patient by passing a curved probe-pointed bistoury