CARIES OF SPINE: SPINAL MENINGITIS. 487 ankle clonus is also readily obtained, and in many cases there is rigidity of the limbs in the extended position. Sometimes if the extended limb be slightly bent, it will suddenly flex completely, apparently as soon as that point of flexion is reached which gives the flexors an advantage over the extensors. This condition has been termed " clasp-knife rigidity." In the later stages the limbs may become permanently flexed. There is no marked wasting of the paralysed muscles, nor are the electrical reactions of degeneration present. If the pressure affects the lumbar region the bladder may be paralysed, and retention, followed by dribbling, may result ; but if it be above that point the bladder commonly empties itself periodically without the patient being able to influence the act by his will. The sensation of distension may, how- ever, warn the patient in time to prevent his wetting his bed. In a case lately in University College Hospital the bladder acted purely automatically, but with such regularity that the child could be kept dry by being placed upon a bed-pan at fixed times. The rectum is much more rarely affected. In the great majority of cases of slow compression of the cord the symptoms are bilateral, but in very rare cases one lateral half of the cord only is affected. The symptoms due to pressure on the nerve-roots are common, and often precede those due to compression of the cord. Pressure on the posterior roots causes at first uneasy sensations referred to the terminal branches of the affected nerve. Thus in cervical disease the referred pains may be expe- rienced in the scalp, neck, or shoulders, or they may extend down the upper limbs. Dorsal caries may occasion pain along the distribution of the inter- costal nerves when the upper part of the region is affected, or at the pit of the stomach or umbihcal region when the disease involves the lower dorsal nerve roots. Pressure on the lumbar and sacral nerves is evidenced by pain referred along the course of the ilio-inguinal, external cutaneous, sciatic or other branches. The part supplied by the nerve may be hypergesthetic. When the pressure becomes sufficient to block the root the part supplied by it becomes aneesthetic, but at the same time there may be intense neuralgic pain still referred to the terminal branches connected with the compressed root. This condition of " ancBsthesia doloo'osa " as it has been termed is characteristic of compression of the posterior root. Pressure on the anterior roots causes weakness followed by complete paralysis of the muscles connected with them. The distribution of the paralysis may in some instances be sufficiently definite to indicate exactly which roots are chiefly affected (see Yol. I., pp. 791, 792). The paralysis may be preceded by spasm or twitching. When the pressure is sufficient completely to block the root and thus to cut off the muscles connected with it from all connexion with the cord, rapid wasting ensues and the electrical reactions of degeneration will be observed. The course of cases of this nature varies greatly, but on the whole the prognosis is favourable, and even after long periods of complete paraplegia gradual recovery often ensues. In cases in which there is incontinence of urine the patient is exposed to the risks of cystitis and its compHcations. Of 218 cases of paraplegia due to caries of the spine collected by Myers, 55 per cent, were known to have recovered and 3*5 per cent, died ; the results in the remaining cases were not known. Acute Spinal Meningitis is a very rare and fatal complication of caries