ANEURISM. restlessness, a feeling of general uneasiness, and of constitutional disturbance which IS best quieted by opiates. As the pressure is continued, and the tumour begins to harden, the anastomosing vessels enlarge, with a good deal ot burning pain in the limb generally, and arterial pulsation in situations where usually none is naturally felt. The abnormal pulsation is always found to occur in much the same situations, the same vessels appearing, to undei^-o dilatation. Thus I have had more than one opportunity of confirm- ing lufnells remark that in the treatment'of popliteal aneurism by com- pression, three arteries will be found to be enlarged, one of which passes over tlie centre of the tumour, another over the head of the fibula, and the third along the inuer edge of the patella. Tufnell also states that the severe burning paiu which IS felt in these cases is owing to the artery accompanyin-'- the communicans peronei nerve being enlarged. After complete solidificatron of the tumour has taken place, the compression ought to be continued for at least forty-eight hours, so as to guard against a relapse. The Duration of the Treatment varies very greatly. In some cases, as above stated, the tumour has become solidified in a few hours or in two or three days. In other instances, the treatment has required to be protracted for more than three months before a cure has resulted. In 26 cases of femoral or popliteal aneurism cured by compression in the London hospitals, the average time, according to Hutchinson, was nineteen days. Barwell has collected from American, British, and Continental journals all the recorded cases of popliteal aneurism cured by compression in the ten years 1870 to 1879 inclusive, and he gives the following statistics of the duration of the treatment. For instrumental compression the longest period was 7 weeks, the shortest 24 hours, the mean of 19 cases in which the time was recorded, 12 days ; for digital compression, the longest period was 21 days, the shortest 4J hours, and the mean of 13 cases 5^ days ; for combined instrumental and digital com- pression the longest period was six months, the shortest 44 hours, and the mean of 12 cases 44^ days. Much, of course, will depend, in this respect, on che constitution of the patient, and on the condition of the tumour ; those circum- stances which are most favourable to the spontaneous cure of the aneurism will also influence the rapidity of the cure by compression. There are, un- doubtedly, certain conditions of the blood in which it is little disposed to coagulate, and in these cases the duration of the treatment will necessarily be prolonged. So also, when the aneurism is tubular, we must expect that the blood which passes freely through it in the direct current of the circulation will be slower in depositing layers of fibrin than when the disease is saccu- lated, and thus contains a residuum of blood that is not so directly influenced by the current through the sac. In the early days of this treatment there was an indisposition on the part of Surgeons to apply compression very firmly, and a longer time was expended over it than is now generally the case ; and the example set by Murray, with regard to abdominal aneurism, has been followed with success in respect to the femoral, popliteal, and other forms of the disease, the compressor being screwed down tight on the artery so as completely to arrest for the time all circulation through the sac, the patient being kept under chloroform, and the cure effected in a few hours. Applicability.—Of the great value of compression in the treatment of aneurism, there can be no doubt; more especially when the tumour is situated