941 OPERATIONS ON THE GALL-BLADDER. have formed between the liver aud the parietal peritoneum, when the cyst is opened and treated as above described. Other Surgeons have sutured the surface of the Hver to the parietal peritoneum in order to ensure the forma- tion of adhesions. The stitches may be inserted in the manner described at page 939. The experience of those Surgeons who have extensively employed Linde- manu's operation suggests that the performance of the operation in two stages is as a rule unnecessary. In some instances, hydatid cysts of the upper convex surface of the liver have been treated through a thoracic incision after removal of portions of one or more ribs. The same precautions against infec- tion of the pleura should be adopted as in the treatment of an abscess (p. !)38). A suppurating hydatid cyst must be treated in the same way as a liver abscess. Resection of the Liver.—The removal of a diseased portion of the liver has been practised in very rare instances. Tansini of Modena successfully excised part of the left lobe together with a hydatid cyst which was buried in its substance. The profuse haemorrhage was arrested by ligatures and temporary plugging, and the wound was closed with catgut sutures. Terrillon successfully removed part of the right lobe, which contained several small hydatid cysts^ by surrounding its base with an elastic ligature and leaving it to slough out- side the abdominal wound. Liicke adopted similar treatment in a case of carcinoma of the left lobe of the liver, the removal of the lobe being completed with the cautery. The patient recovered, and the wound was healed in four weeks. Keen has successfully removed a cystic tumour attached to the border of the right lobe. Operations on the Gall-Bladder.—Great advance has been made during recent years in the surgical treatment of the various conditions which may arise from the presence of gall-stones in the gall-bladder and its duct, as well as in the common bile-duct. It is obvious, however, that only a certain proportion of cases of cholelithiasis require operative interference. Mayo Robson considers the following to be the most important conditions in which operation is indicated :—1. Repeated attacks of biliary colic apparently due to gall-stones, which, not yielding to medical treatment, are wearing out the patient's strength ; 2. When there is evidence of suppuration in the neigh- bourhood of the gall-bladder set up by gall-stones ; 3. Empyema of the gall- bladder ; 4. Dropsy of the gall-bladder ; 5. Obstructive jaundice due to occlusion of the common duct by gall-stones ; G. Acute or perforative peritonitis starting in the region of the gall-bladder. The most favourable cases for operation are those in which dilatation of the gall-bladder results from the impaction of a gall-stone in the cystic duct; as the common duct is not obstructed there is no jaundice, and the fluid distend- ing the cyst is not coloured with bile. In some cases the distended gall- bladder has been known to inflame, suppurate, and discharge externally, leaving a fistulous opening through which gall-stones have been discharged! The diagnosis of distended gall-bladder is not always possible ; it is usually freely movable except at its upper attachment, and may resemble a renal tumour, or a hydatid cyst. The condition is infinitely more serious when the common duct is blocked by a calculus ; obstructive jaundice results, and if unrelieved, is likely to prove fatal before any great dilatation of the gall-bladder takes place. The not unfrequent association of gall-stones and malignant