I290 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE UENERATIVE ORGANS. led to a revival of the operation. In Spencer Wells's Imnds, ovarioto,.. as8unied a new shape; its perlbrmanee was guided by defin te ru s operative details were carefully worked out and systematized, and th aft treatment much improved. The results obtaine^d showed 1 grad ally creasing success, the proportion of recoveries rising from 6(5 to 89 per cen " in the cases operated on between 1807 and 1881. These results, adrairahi;. as hey are, have been still inrther improved upon during late years by oti r well-known workers in this field of Surgery ; and the procedun^ formerly s^ fatal as to be pronounced unjustifiable, is now the most successful of all great surgical operations. The wonderful improvement shown of late years in the death-rate of ovari- otomy IS in great measure to be explained by the very notable reduction in the number of deaths now recorded from septicaemia, a cause of mortality which lormei ly figured so largely in ovariotomy statistics. The attainment of this result, apart from the employment of antiseptics which have so greatly influenced the progress of all surgical work during the past twenty years, is attributable to several causes, among which may be noted : 1. The gradual abandonment of the former practice of tapnin<r ovarian cysts; 2. The general adoption of the intra-peritoneal method ot dea mg with the ovarian pedicle, in place of the extra-peritoneal treat- ment by means of the clamp, which was formerly used to a large extent • 3. The introduction of the plan of flushing out the abdominal cavity with wami sterilized water, as a substitute for the practice of cleansing the peritoneum by the use of sponges, followed or not by the employment of a drainage-tube. In the days when the results of ovariotomy were much less good than they now are, the opinion generally held was in favour of postponing any surgical interference so long as the patient was tolerably free from pain and able to move about. Of late years, however, the increasing success of the operation, together with the fuller recognition of the serious risks entailed by delay in such cases, has led to the belief that an ovarian tumour should be removed as soon as its nature and connexions can be cleatly ascertained, and its presence is beginning in any way to atfeot the patient's well-being. Preparation of the Patient.—No special medical treatment is as a rule necessary, beyond attending to the state of the bowels. In the case, how- ever, of a very large tumour of long standing, when the urine is scanty and highly concentrated, depositing quantities of mixed urates, benefit will be derived from the administration of full doses of citrate of potash or lithia during the forty-eight hours preceding operation, combined with the employ- ment of a hot bath, should the skin be habitually dry and disinclined to act. Finally, a full dose of castor-oil or some equivalent aperient should be given the evening before, to be followed by an enema administered on the morning of the operation, to ensure thorough evacuation of the lower bowel. The room selected for the operation and for subsequent occupation by the patient, must be thoroughly clean, airy, and well ventilated, if possible with an open fireplace. A trustworthy and competent nurse, accustomed to the use of the female catheter, and to the giving of nutrient enemata, should be chosen to take sole charge of the case ; she, as well as all concerned in the operation, ought to be completely free from any taint of recent septic contamination. All sponges and instruments, previously well cleansed, must be immersed in