INTRAORBITAL ANEURISM. 1^5 stethoscope to the mastoid process, and should symptoms of cerebral compression begin to manifest themselves, ligature of the carotid artery on the affected side may with propriety be practised. This was done successfully in a most interesting and instructive case of intracranial aneurism by Coe of Bristol ; and unsuccessfully by Berkeley Hill, in one at University College Hospital, in which death took place from haemorrhage from the seat of ligature. INTKAORBITAL ANEURISM. " Intraorbital aneurisms " were for a long time considered by Surgeons to be of the nature of erectile tumours ; but the erroneousness of this opinion was pointed out by Busk, and subsequently by Nunneley, who showed that, except in those very rare cases in which a pulsating tumour of the orbit is congenital, or has appeared shortly after birth, oris associated with uEevoid tissue developed in the eyelids, it must be looked upon as being due in the vast majority of cases to the presence of an aneurism or aneurismal varix at the back of the orbit. These views have been fully confirmed by Rivington in his exhaustive paper founded on 73 recorded cases of pulsating tumour of the orbit collected from various sources, and including one very interesting case of his own. The vessel affected seems to be in some instances the ophthalmic artery itself; in other instances it would appear that the tumour is developed within the cranium, springing from the carotid artery, the ophthalmic being but second- arily affected. Delens of Paris has recorded three oases verified hj post-mortem examination, in which the symp|ioms arose from an arterio-venous aneurism affecting the carotid artery in the cavernous sinus. Causes.—The causes of intraorbital aneurism are in some cases very obscure ; in others, the condition evidently has originated from a blow upon the head. In the first class of cases, where the disease has been of spontaneous origin, the patient has suddenly felt a crack or snap in the orbit, like the " crack of a whip," or the "snap of a gun," and the disease has then developed gradually. In the traumatic cases, the blow upon the head has usually been severe, attended in some instances with symptoms of fracture of the anterior part of the base of the skull. In several cases it has arisen from penetrating wounds of the orbit caused by sticks or small shot. Of the 73 cases collected by Eivington, 32 were idiopathic and 41 traumatic. Of the idiopathic cases two were congenital, probably genuine specimens of cirsoid aneurism ; the mean age of the rest was 43, the oldest being 69. The mean age of the traumatic cases was between 30 and 31, the extremes being 11 and 72. The spontaneous cases were most commonly in women : thus, of 30 cases in which the sex is recorded, 21 were females. The traumatic form is most common in men, the number being 31 males to 10 females. Amongst the idiopathic cases 15 occurred on the right side, 13 on the left, and 2 on both sides ; of 40 traumatic cases, 10 were on the right, 27 on the left, and 3 on both. Symptoms.—The first sensation experienced is, in spontaneous cases, that of a loud snap or crack in the orbit or head. This is followed by congestion of the conjunctiva, difficulty in opening the eyelids, a feeling of tension, and in some instances severe pain in and around the orbit. Loud whizzing bewilder- mg noises are experienced in the head, and are much increased on stooping or lymg down. In traumatic cases, a persistence of congestion of the conjunctiva