CASTER OF THE BREAST: TREATMENT. 803 When in doubt the Surgeon should not hesitate to lay the state of the case he re the p^^^^^ and stro'ngly urge the necessity of -kmg - ex^^^^^^^^^^^^^ incision. Consent should, if possible, be obtained to remove the wbo e breas f the doubtful tumour prove malignant. An incision is far more useful than .1ml puncture, and the only one of the four conditions which may possibly no be distinguished with certainty in this way is chronic interstitial mast tis If this be sot a small slice should be excised, and only a few minutes will be necessary, if the materials be at hand, to cut a section with a freezing micio- tome and examine it under the microscope. i,, ^i^Hn A soft glandular carcinoma or encephaloid must, if possible, be distm- o-uished from a soft fibro-adenoma (adeno-sarcoma) and from a sarcoma. Ihe "loft fih-o-adenoma differs essentially in its perfectly circumscribed outline and often the history shows that the tumour has somewhat rapidly developed from a smaller and harder one, perhaps of several years' duration. The distinction l,etween soft carcinoma and sarcoma may be impossible until a microscopic examination has been made, and from the point of view of the treatment is of no -reat moment, as in either case excision of the whole breast is required. The sarcoma is more clearly defined than the carcinoma; it imphcates the skin less early, and is not associated with glandular enlargement. Although the nipple is not retracted in cases of soft carcinoma, yet it is sometimes buried by the projection of the tumour around it. In some instances m which a soft carcinoma is of unusually rapid growth, and the skm at an early staae is red and oedematous, the resemblance to an abscess may be close. The diagnosis between custic sarcoma and some forms of cijskc carcinoma of the breast is not always easy, and may be impossible without microscopic examination. In a case under my care, a woman fifty-nine years of age, a hard tumour, as large as half an orange, had existed in the breast for fave years. It was freely movable, unconnected in any way with the skm, and there was no retraction of the nipple. On its upper side several large cysts could be felt, and seen through the skin. On examination after removal, it was found to be a cystic scirrhus, with large cysts of the size of cherries, containing bloody and yellow fluid. The only very suspicious circumstances here were the age of the patient, and the existence of one small indurated gland in the axilla. The true nature of a carcinoma of the breast which has ulcerated through the skin is usually easily recognized ; the deep foul ulcer, the infiltrated con- dition of the surrounding skin, and, in almost all cases, the presence of enlarged glands, producing a very characteristic appearance. A sarcoma . projecting through the skin forms a prominent vascular mass, with usually little invasion of the skin around and no glandular enlargement. As a rule no difficulty will be met with in recognizing the nature of a case m which an intracystic growth in a cysto-adenoma or in a cyst of the breast has burst through the overlying skin. Treatment.—In the consideration of the important subject of the treat- ment of cancer of the breast the only method which needs our attention here is removal of the disease by the knife. The palliative measures which may be adopted in cases unfit for operative interference have already been considered in Vol. I., pp. 1077 et snq., and in the same place mention has been made of the treatment by compression, which was at one time recommended. It has there been pointed out that cases of supposed cancer of the breast cured by compression were probably in reahty simple inflammatory indurations, the 3 F 2