PULSATING TUMOURS OF BOFE: TREATMENT. 325 he will be further assisted by its having on compression a soft, doughy, or spongy feel, or appearing as a depression surrounded by an osseous margin. In many cases also, the less impulsive character of the beat of the tumour, the peculiar shrill and tremulous whiz in the pulsation and bruit, will throw light on the nature of the disease. But it cannot be doubted that when tumours of this kind occur in some of the ordinary situations of aneurism, as about the brim of the pelvis, and in the popliteal space, the diagnosis is surrounded with difficulties which no amount of surgical skill may be able to overcome. From ordinary tumours of hone, the existence of pulsation and bruit will always suffice to distinguish the growths under consideration. Treatment.—In the majority of cases the first step in the treatment will consist in rendering the limb bloodless, and making a free exploratory incision into the tumour. If it be found to consist of soft sarcomatous tissue exten- sively broken down by hasmorrhage, the case must be treated in exactly the same way as a sarcoma which does not pulsate. The favourable result obtained in Langton's case by opening the cavity in the bone and allowing it to granulate from the bottom would justify the adoption of similar measures in any case in which the blood cyst contains little or no soft solid tissue. The result in this instance may seem difficult to reconcile with the fact that the bone around the cavity was found to contain myeloid sarcoma tissue. It must, however, be remembered that the malignancy of a myeloid tumour is veiy low' and in the case of the jaw, cure has been obtained by freely scraping the growth from the cavity in the expanded bone. Ligature of the main artery has been practised in several supposed cases of " true aneurism of bone," but in the majority of these the disease turned out to be a soft sarcoma, and consequently no benefit resulted. The growth of the tumour was not even retarded. Eoux, however, has recorded^ case m which he cured a pulsating swelhng in the lower end of the radius by hgature of the brachial artery. Lallemand cured a so-called aneurism of bone by the same procedure. In a patient of Dupuytren's no return of the disease took place for six years, when it recurred, and amputation became necessary.