I 2 I O DISEASES OF THE URETIIR, Urethroplastic operabions may be varied according to the seat and extent of the fistulous opening. If the fistula be in the perinmum the narts m, [ be.ng thickened and indurated, its closure may often be fnduced T^rS deeply paring the edges, and then bringing them together with deep Biher wire sutures. ^-^i^ ^5lnel When the fistula is scrotal, the edges should be freely pared, and the partg around widely dissected up so as to form large and thick flaps of cellulo-S neous tissue, which may be brought and held together by metallic sutur^ In this way, it umon be not obtained throughout the whole length of the hstula. It may be to a partial extent ; and, after a time, a second or a third operation will complete the cure. » When the fistula is pemle, the difficulties in effecting closure become^ immensely increased. This is owing to the thinness of the integumental ' structures and the absence of subcutaneous areolar tissue in this region h,, Fig. 927.—Urethroplasty. Nelaton's Operation : First Method. Fig. 92S.—Urethroplasty. Nelaton's 0])eration: Second Method. that there is not sufficient thickness of the parts for ready plastic union. Ii these cases, the Surgeon has a choice of four operations :— 1. Iselaton has recommended the following procedure : The edges of the fistula having been pared, the skin around, to the extent of about an inch, should be dissected up subcutaneously through an opening made below the fistula, the edges of which must then be brought together by a few points of suture. The displacement of the skin covers in the aperture in the urethra and causes granulations to spring up, by which the fistula is closed (Fig. 927). 2. The edges of the fistula having been pared and the skin separated widely, lateral incisions may be made so as to take ofl' all tension, and a strip of india-rubber may then be passed underneath the flaps of skin, in order to prevent contact with urine from disturbing the adhesions (Fig. 928). 3. Ricord, recognizing the fact that the occasional intrusion of a drop of