ACCIDEJTS DURING LIGATURE OF SUBCLAVIAN. 205 ported on a supernumerary cervical rib, the anatomical relations being thus seriously disturbed. And again, if this supernumerary cervical rib be unusually short, the vessel may be found to lie between it and the first dorsal. Another abnormality of great rarity is the passage of the subclavian vein behind the scalenus anticus with the artery. This would add greatly to the difficulty of the operation. The Collateral Circulation after ligature of the third part of the subclavian is carried on by the anastomoses of the posterior scapular and suprascapular branches of the subclavian with the subscapular and acromio-thoracic branches of the axillary, and by the anastomoses of the aortic intercostals, superior intercostal, and internal mammary with the thoracic branches of the axillary. Accidents diiring Ligature of the Third Part of the Subclavian.— Wound of the Exterjial Jugular Vein is a most serious complicatiou, as entrance of air is very likely to take place, and may cause immediate death. This accident is avoided by careful dissection, and if the vein is so situated as to be .exposed to the risk of injury, it must be divided between a couple of ligatures. Profuse venous Immorrhage from wound of some of the numerous veins in the neighbourhood has more than once prevented the completion of the operation. Should this accident happen the wound must be plugged and the operation attempted again at some later period. Wound of the Sac is a somewhat rare accident. In some cases, when the sac passes upwards beneath the clavicle into the posterior triangle of the neck, the Surgeon incurs the risk of puncturing it from its close proximity to the artery. This accident happened to Casack while ligaturing the subclavian in the third part of its course, for a diifused aneurism of the axillary artery. An alarming gush of blood took place, which was arrested by plugging the wound : but the haemorrhage recurred on the tenth day, and the patient died. In a .case related by Travers, in which the sac was punctured as the needle was being passed round the artery, the blood did not flow per saltum, but in a continuous stream. " The hsemorrhage," Travers says, " was more terrific and uncontrollable than I have ever witnessed," and was not commanded by tightening the ligature. It was so great that it was doubtful whether the patient would leave the theatre alive, and it was arrested only by plugging the wound with sponge-tents. The patient died of inflammation of the pleura. On examination, it was found that a pouch-like enlargement of the aneurism overlying the artery had been punctured. Inclusion of the lowest cord of Ihe brachicd plexus in the noose of the ligature is a more common accident; indeed the mistake has more than once been committed of tying this nerve-trunk instead of the vessel. Thus, Listen, in the first successful case of ligature of the subclavian in this country, passed the thread round the lower cord ; but immediately perceiving his error, turned it to account by drawing aside the included nerve, and thus more readily exposing the artery. Dupuytren, in a case of aneurism of some years' dura- tion, succeeded, after an operation that lasted one hour and forty-eight minutes, and which he describes as the most tedious and difficult he ever attempted, in passing a ligature round the vessel, as he believed. After the death of the patient from hfemorrhage on the ninth day, the artery was found to have been perforated by the needle, and one half of the vessel and the lower cord of the brachial plexus included in the noose. In a case related by Porter,