DISTAL LIGATURE. 123 ,l)serve that the proper consolidation of the aneurismal tumour, by the deposit ,f laminated fibrin, will occur even though a very considerable quantity of Mood continue to flow through it. In the Museum of University College , here is an exceedingly interesting preparation that is frequently referred to m , onncxion with this point. It is one in which Charles Bell ligatured the femoral rtery for popliteal aneurism. The patient died a week after the operation, [• erysipelas ; on examination, it was found, that the femoral artery wus ,uble, and that, though only one portion of the vessel had been ligatured, the tumour, which continued to be supplied by the other branch, was completely consolidated. It is doubtful, however, in this case whether the consolidation was due so much to the diminished influx of blood to the tumour consequent upon ligature of artery as to the feebleness of the heart's action before death and possibly to some blood-change induced by the septic disease of which the patient died. After the aneurismal sac has been thus occluded, it progressively diminishes in size, and is at last converted into a small mass of fibroid tissue. The artery that has been ligatured becomes closed at two points—at the part deligated (Fig. 457, a), and where it com- municates with the sac (Fig. 457, h). In both these situations, it will be found to be converted into fibroid tissue ; whilst between them there is an open space, through the medium of which the collateral circulation is freely carried on. Savory has collected 17 complete specimens from the London Museums illustrating the ligature of the femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle for pophteal aneurism. In 13 specimens the artery below the point hgatured is pervious thi'oughout, and in 11 of these the aneurism was cured ; in 4 speci- mens the vessel was to a greater or less extent pervious, the aneurism in all being consolidated. 3. Distal Ligature.—In some cases in which the ligature cannot, for anatomical reasons, be applied on the proximal side of the aneurism, as in the arteries about the root of the neck, it was recommended by Brasdor, a French Surgeon about the middle of the last century, that the vessel should be tied on its distal side. This operation, originally proposed by Brasdor, was first performed by Deschamps in 1799 at La Charite in Paris in a case of femoral aneurism. In principle, it resembles the Hunterian operation, the object being to arrest so much of the flow of blood through the sac that the consoli- dation of this may take place in the usual way, by the deposit of laminated fibrin. In the Hunterian operation,, this is effected by deposit from the lessened quantity of blood that flows through the sac; in the distal operation, it is sought to be accomplished in the same way, and the success of the operation must necessarily depend, in a great measure, upon the extent to which the flow of blood through the sac is interfered with. This operation, however, is rarely successful; for, independently of the ordinary dangers resulting from the application of the ligature to a large vessel, the sac will continue to receive the direct impulse of, the blood that is driven into it. The natural result of the ligature would be to increase the general arterial tension and with it that of the sac ; but, as Hohnes points out, the enlargement of the collateral circulation opens, as it were, " side-sluices " to relieve this pressure, and consequently after a few hours or days the sac is usually found to be less tense than before the operation. Hence the progress of the aneurism may be arrested for a time, but it will often speedily increase again, and may perhaps eventually destroy the patient by suppuration and sloughing. Of 38 cases in which this operation was practised on the carotid artery, in 25 a fatal result