LIGATURE OF THE LINGUAL ARTERY. 689 coronoid process. By entering the point of a knife, therefore, into the mucous membrane of the mouth, three-quarters of an inch behind and below the last molar tooth, and cutting down to the bone, the nerve must be divided. Moore used a curved bistoury as the projection of the alveolar ridge would protect the nerve from a straight blade. If the floor of the mouth is too deeply invaded the nerve may be reached from the outside by enlarging the sigmoid notch (see p. 31). The good effect of the operation is instanta- neous : pain ceases in the tongue, ear, face, and head, and the flow of saliva is diminished ; and the relief is continuous, for it does not appear that the nerve re-unites. Ligature of the Lingual Artery may be required to restrain profuse haemorrhage from an ulcerated cancer of the tongue. This operation has been practised also with the view of starving the morbid growth and thus retarding its development. That it does so for a short period is undoubtedly the case, Fig. 744.—Ligature of Lingual Artery. but that it does so permanently is a fallacy. The operation is also sometimes done as a preliminary step in excision of the tongue. The artery is reached with most certainty in the digastric triangle of the neck, where it lies.beneath the hyo-glossus muscle. A curved incision carried from about one finger's breadth external to the symphysis menti downwards to the great cornu of the hyoid bone and prolonged upwards and backwards to near the angle of the jaw will expose the lower border of the submaxillary gland. In fat subjects, or when the parts are swollen, the incision must be -of the full length above mentioned, but under ordinary circumstances it may be curtailed by about half an inch at each end. The first incision divides the 8km, superficial fascia, and platysma, exposing the deep fascia coverino- the submaxillary gland. This fascia must now be opened, and in doing so care most be taken not to carry the incision too far back lest the facial vein be wounded The lower edge of the submaxillary gland is raised and drawn upwards towards the jaw. The tendon of the digastric then comes into view and a space is exposed bounded below and externally by the curved tendon of VOL. II.