DURATION OF ANEURISIf. T09 owing to the pressure of the tumour on the venous trunks in its vicinity. The consequent obstruction to the venous circulation may also give rise to a distended or varicose condition of the subcutaneous vessels, and in some instances it may even go on to the production of gangrene. The pressure of the sac, also, on neighbouring arteries, or even on the upper part of the very vessel from which it springs, and its interference with the general capillary circulation of a part, are commonly associated with compression of the veiuK, and may considerably increase the ill consequences resulting from it. The pressure upon a neighbouring artery may go on to perforation of the vessel by the sac, and so a communication between the two may be set up : thus aneurism of the aorta has been known to perforate and communicate with the pulmonary artery. Pressure upon neighbouring nerves may give rise either to great pain in the part supplied by them, or to disturb- ance of their function ; the nerves themselves becoming in some cases flattened out, and ribbon-like (Fig. 449), and in other instances considerably elongated. The pain in the nerves is often one of the earliest signs of the existence of an aneurism. The pain is usually of two kinds : it is either lancinating and radiating along the course of the nerve that is compressed ; or, when the tumour presses severely upon neighbouring parts and tissues, more especially if it give rise to erosion of the bones (as in Fig. 448), an aching, burning, tearing, or boring sensation is often experienced in the part sub- jected to the pressure. In other cases, again, important modifications in the function of parts take place, in consequence of the pressure that is exercised upon their nerves, as in the affection of the larynx caused by pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerve. On the i)07ies an aneurism may produce very important effects by its pressure, often deeply eroding the osseous tissue. If the bone be a flat one, as the sternum, the aneurism may perforate it by making as smooth and round a hole in it as if this had been worked by the trephine. ■Glandular organs and their duels in the neighbourhood of aneurisms suffer the most injurious effects from the pressure of these tumours, their functions being arrested and the passage of their secretions interfered with ; so, also, by the pressure exercised on the irachea and (Esophagus, respiration and deglutition may be seriously impeded Number—Aneurisms, though usually single, are not very unfrequentlv multiple. There may be more than one in the same limb : thus the iliac and femoral arteries on the same side may be affected. In other cases, correspond- ing arteries are affected : thus the two popliteals are occasionally the seat of this •disease, and an external aneurism may co-exist with one in the thorax or abdomen JSumerous aneurismal tumours are at times met with in the same person • • thus, Pelletan records a case in which no fewer than sixty-five were observed ' Duration—The duration of an aneurism varies very greatly. In youu<- ful-blooded persons it often makes progress with great rapidity; whereas in Tiff °/ constitution, in whom it is accompanied by more or Jess feebleness of the heart's action, it may assume a very chronic form. Thus Fif;. 4-lft. — Flattening of Posterior Tibial Nerve by pressure of an Aneurism of the Calf.