HEMATOCELE OF THE TUNICA VAGINALIS. 1247 of a cocoa-nut. It is seldom that it becomes larger than this; but cases are recorded in which the tumour has attained an enormous magnitude. I once operated on a case in which a spontaneous hematocele had existed tor six years ; it was as large as a melon, and contained, besides about a quart ot dark thin blood, a handful of partially decolorized and tough fibrm, the greater portion of which was firmly adherent to the inside of the greatly thickened tunica vaginalis in filamentary and laminated masses, with here and there nodules interspersed. The whole of the interior of the tunica vaginalis closely resembled an aneurismal sac. ^ The fluid contained in the htematocele, when the disease is recent, consists of pure blood The blood so effused will continue fluid for years ; but at last it may decompose and set up fatal inflammatory mischief ; in some rare instances the tumour becomes partly solidified by the deposit of masses of fibrin lining the interior of the tunica vaginalis, which are sometimes decolorized and arranged as in the case just referred to and in one recorded by Bowman. When the heematocele is of old standing, changes take place both in the eflPused blood and in the sac. The blood becomes at first dark and treacly. As chemical changes advance further it becomes converted into a dirty-brownish fluid, full of shreds of partly decolorized fibrin and crystals of cholesterine. The tunica vaginahs becomes thickened and indurated, and may undergo calcification. This change I found in a patient whose disorganized testis I removed for a hsematocele of nearly forty years' standing. The Symptoms are generally sufiiciently obvious. The occurrence of the tumour subsequently to a blow, strain, or injury, its gradual increase in size, its heavy but semi-elastic or obscurely fluctuating feel, and the absence of translucency, form the most important signs. Its shape is somewhat uncertain. When recent it may have the pyriform shape of a hydrocele, but an old hsematocele is always more or less oval or rounded in form and smooth on the surface, and thus comes closely to resemble a solid tumour. Except in very old cases, in which atrophy of the testicle from pressure has occurred, the peculiar " testicular sensation" will be perceived by the patient if the gland is pressed upon. Diagnosis.—Hsematocele may be mistaken for hydrocele, hernia, and other scrotal swelHngs. The mode of distinguishing it will be described at the end of this chapter, with the diagnosis of scrotal tumours in general. It is most frequently confounded with solid tumours of the testicle ; and upon this fact is founded the excellent rule of practice never to remove a doubtful tumour of the testis without first ascertaining, by an incision into its substance, that it is not a hsematocele. Treatment.—When the effusion of blood is only moderate in amount, and of quite recent occurrence, further hgemorrhage may be prevented by keeping the patient lying flat oti his back with the scrotum raised on a small pillow, and an ice bag or evaporating lotion applied. If the blood shows no signs of undergoing absorption, the Surgeon may evacuate it with a trochar and cannula while it is still fluid. Every care must be taken to avoid setting up suppuration by the use of an imperfectly cleaned instrument. In a case under my care, although the hsematocele had existed for three years, a complete cure followed the operation of tapping. Such simple treatment as this, however, cannot be depended upon, and it usually becomes necessary to lay open the