GAL VANO-PUNGTURE. M7 method of treatment. There is another danger also especially attendant on this procedure, when applied to aneurisms about the neck : viz., that the detached coagulum may be carried by the circulation into the cerebral arteries, and by obstructing them occasion the same kind of cerebral disturbance that occurs \Yhen these vessels become occluded by fibrinous plugs—embola.^ That this danger is a real and a great one, is evident from the fact that, in some cases in which manipulation of subclavian and carotid aneurisms has been tried, the patient has been suddenly seized with syncope and hemiplegia. Teale has successfully conjoined manipulation with compression in a case of popliteal aneurism, in which the pressure on the artery was slow in consolidating the tumour ; the detachment of a portion of the coagulum almost at once led to the consolidation of the tumour. Somewhat analogous to this method is one recommended in 1842 by Blake, who proposed, by the introduction^ of a cataract-needle into the sac, to detach some of the laminated fibrin, which might then be washed against the aperture of the exit and occlude it, Galvano-puncture.—The attempt to bring about the consolidation of an aneurismal sac by the employment of electricity is of comparatively recent date. It appears to have been first practised by B. Phillips, about the year 1832. Little attention, however, was given to the mode of treatment until a few years back, when it was revived by some of the French and Italian Surgeons, especially Petrequin, Burci, and Ciniselli. The object aimed at by this operation is the production of coagulation in the aneurismal sac by decomposition of the blood contained in it by means of the galvanic current. "When two needles connected with the poles of a galvanic battery are intro- duced into a mass of fluid blood, a firm solid coagulum is rapidly formed round that connected with the positive pole, while at the same time a large soft, spongy clot mixed with bubbles of gas is seen at the negative needle, and a dark, tar-like fluid also makes its appearance. If the needle used be made of steel, further changes occur at the positive pole due to the production of salts of iron with the acids liberated from the blood. These changes are spoken of as secondary electrolysis. The clot formed by electrolysis is, there- fore, not composed simply of the fibrin of the blood, but also contains a large proportion of albumen coagulated by the chemical action of the current, and must be looked upon as a foreign body around which it is hoped that ordinary coagulation will occur. The operation of galvano-puncture is best performed as follows. Two steel needles, well insulated with vulcanite or gum elastic, are inserted into the sac of the aneurism and connected with the opposite poles of the battery. The needles should be about one inch apart, parallel to each other, and so inserted that no part of the uninsulated portion of the needle shall touch the sac. The best battery for the purpose is one of the ordinary medical batteries with small Leclanche cells, of which from ten to twenty may be used for a time varying from twenty minutes to half an hour or more, according to the effect produced. If the tumour be sufiiciently near the surface to be clearly observed, as has been the case in several of the aneurisms in which this treat- ment has been employed, it will be seen to become more tense and firm, and the expansile nature of the pulsation will become diminished as the operation progresses. Sometimes bubbles of gas escape by the side of the negative needle, arid a little thick brown fluid oozes up. Occasionally the tumour has been found to swell and become resonant on percussion. When a distinct L 2