TREATMENT OF CAROTID ANEURISM. iji holds good ; and an aneurism may be mistaken for abscess—a far more fatal error. And there is one variety of false aneurism, to which Listoii specially invited attention, against which the Surgeon must be on Ins guard on account of the many points of resemblance between it anfl aneurism : I mean the case in which an artery has given way into the sac of an abscess. In this case, fluctuation and pulsation will exist, although not perhaps of a dis- tending kind. An important diagnostic mark, however, will be that the out- line of an aneurism is distinctly defined and limited, while that of an abscess never is. Aneurism of the internal carotid has been found by Syme to simulate very closely abscess of the tonsil. Tumours of various kinds—sarcomatous, fatty, and fibrous—may occur in the neck, and cause some little embarrassment in the diagnosis from aneurism ; thusLisfranc, OTteilly, and Kerr of Aberdeen have recorded instances in which the artery has been ligatured in such cases by mistake for aneurism. The diagnosis of such tumours as these must be made on ordinary principles. I have in several instances met with a small, hard, distinctly circumscribed tumour lying directly upon the carotid artery, and apparently connected with it, and receiving pulsation from it, usually produced by a fit of coughing or laughing. This tumour, with the true nature of which I am unacquainted, remains stationary, and does not require any operative interference. The thyroid body is not unfrequently the seat of enlargements which have been mistaken for aneurism. These consist chiefly in a circumscribed enlargement of one lobe of the gland, which extends laterally over the common carotid, and receives pulsation from it. This kind of bronchocele may be diagnosed from aneurism by the communicated pulsation in it ceasing when it is raised from the artery. The most puzzling cases, and those in which mistakes may most easily be made, are instances of imlsatwg bronchocele in which these tumours have an active and independent pulsation or thrill. In these instances, however, there are three points that will almost invariably enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. Thus the tumour, although principally confined to one lateral lobe, always afi'ects the isthmus more or less. Then again, in bronchocele, that portion of the tumour is most firmly fixed which stretches towards the mesial line ; whilst in carotid aneurism the firmest attachment is under the sterno-mastoid muscle. The third point of difiference is that, on the patient's making an efibrt at deglutition, the enlarged thyroid body moves with the larynx and trachea. Cysts in the thyroid body are more common than pul- sating bronchoceles, and sometimes equally difficult of diagnosis. Dupuytren has pointed out that, when these cysts are tapped, the pulsation often becomes stronger, and the fluid, which on first flowing is serous, may at last become pure arterial blood, so that the Surgeon may suspect that he has punctured an aneurism. Treatment.—Digital Compression has been successfully employed for the treatment of carotid aneurism. A case of aneurism of the common carotid artery, cured by intermittent digital compression, has been recorded by Eouge of Lausanne. The patient was a man, aged 68. Compression was made by placing the thumb against the anterior edge of the sterno- mastoid and the next three fingers under the posterior edge of the muscle ; the artery was thus seized and compressed. This avoided any pressure on the pneumogastric nerve, which was supposed to be the cause of the pain