DISEASES OF JOINTS. 356 exacerbations, often very severe and prolonged. The general health may con- tinue ftiirly good, though life is rendered miserable by pain and decrepitude. One of the most marked features of the disease is the crackling felt on movin^i the joint. In the early stages this is soft, but as the cartilages are de- stroyed and the bones exposed, it becomes gradually liarsher till it may almost resemble the crepitus of a broken bone. When the synovial mem- brane is villous, there is considerable fulness of the joint with a very fine sofi crepitation in movement. The Causes of rheumatoid arthritis are for the most part very obscure. Long continued exposure to damp cold, as prolonged residence in a damp house, or on a wet and clayey soil, undoubtedly predisposes to the disease, and in many cases appears to be the direct occasioning cause. The sprain of a joint will in many cases appear to be the local determining cause. It must, however, be remembered that extensive changes may be present in several joints, whilst pain and stiffness are complained of only in one of them which has recently been injured ; the injury merely Causing an exacerbation of the pre-existing disease. On the other hand there is some reason to think that a series of chronic destructive changes may sometimes be induced in a joint by a slight injury—a true " chronic traumatic arthritis," which has no real relation with rheumatic arthritis. The essential cause of the disease is indeed unknown. It appears to have no connexion with tubercle, gout, or true rheumatism except in so far as these act as depressing agents. As Garrod truly observes, it is much easier to prove what rheumatoid arthritis is not, than to give the sHghtest clue to Avhat it is. It is generally supposed to be dependent upon some form of malnutrition of the system, and to be predisposed to by depressing influences, physical or mental. That deficient or perverted innerva- tion may in some manner lead to rheumatoid arthritis is not improbable, the more so when we consider that a somewhat analogous form of joint affection has been described by Charcot as one of the characteristic phenomena of locomotor ataxy. The Diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis, especially of the polyarticular variety, is usually easy. This may, however, be confounded with gout and chronic rheumatism. As a rule, the absence of effusion or its small amount, the character of the grating and the presence of bony outgrowths, will show the nature of the affection. The monarticular variety must also be distinguished from Charcot's disease, gonorrhoeal rheumatism and senile tuberculous disease. The diagnosis from Charcot's disease will be considered subsequently. Gonorrhoeal rheumatism can usually be distinguished by the age of the patient, the rapid effusion in the early stage, and the tendency to fibrous ankylosis. Tubercle of joints is rare at the age when rheumatoid arthritis is common, and it is only in the unusual form of the latter disease in which the synovial mem- brane is thickened and there is considerable effusion that any difficulty is likely Treatment.—Little can be done to cure, but much to relieve and retard. Rest and strapping the joint in iodine or stimulating plasters will afford relief • and, in many instances, the administration of the iodide of potassmm wiU lessen the nocturnal pain. Smith recommends an electuary composed ot guaiacum, sulphur, the bitartrate and carbonate of potash, and gmger, with a small quantity of rhubarb ; and I have certainly seen benefit i;esult from the administration of this remedy in some cases. Ammoniacum and cod-liver oil