DISEASES OF nURS.K. matiou and snp]iuration are liable to occur, and often an indolent sinus discharging thin unliealLiiy pus is left. Treatment.—The first thing to be done is to relieve the pressure on the part by wearing properly shaped boots, made with the inner side of the sole straight from the toe to the heel. If accidental inflammation be excited in the part, it must be allayed by the use of warm foot-baths, and fomentations; the cutaneous irritation tiiat is left may best be removed by painting the surface with a strong solution of nitrate of silver. An attempt may be made to rectify the faulty direction of the toe by using a contrivance (Fig. Clo), the action of which consists in drawing the toe inwards by means of a slender steel spring, or by moulding a leather or gutta-percha splint to the inner side of the foot. Should these means fail, the position of the toe may be remedied by the division of the external lateral ligament of the metatarso- phalangeal articulation, or of the tendon of the adductor hallucis, and of the inner head of the flexor brevis hallucis ; the toe, when restored to its position, being for a time kept fixed upon an under-splint. As these methods of treatment are, however, seldom successful, it was suggested by C. Hoar to perform antiseptic osteotomy of the metatarsal bone of the great toe through the neck of the bone. This operation has been most successfully performed by A. E. Barker. A small wedge-shaped piece was removed from the inner side of the metatarsal bone, and by fi-acturing the remainder, the toe was brought at once into good position. Occasionally suppuration extends from the bursa to the metatarso-phalangeal joint, which becomes more or less extensively disorganized. In elderly feeble patients this condition is very serious as a sloughing inflammation may be set up in the foot which may terminate fatally. If the patient's condition admit of it, amputation should be performed, after which the ulcerated head of the metatarsal bone will usually heal without difficulty. In younger persons the toe may sometimes be saved by excision of the joint, the enlarged and suppu- rating bursa being removed at the same time.