DISEASES OF THE NEIiVOVS SYSTEM. 36 only recorded case with which I am acquainted of a neuroma connected with one of those nerves, is one described by Lidell of New York, of a neuroma of the optic nerve filling up the orbit, flattening and protruding the eye ; it was extirpated together with the contents of the orbit. Most commonly the tumour is single, and is usually painless. As it in- creases in size it may become the seat of severe lancinating or neuralgic pain, which extends, however, only to the parts below the tumour, and is commonly paroxysmal. The motor function of the nerve is very seldom affected. The pain is evidently due to the stretching of the nerve fibres as they pass over the tumour. Single neuromata are sometimes not only painful iDut acutely tender when touched ; but when many tumours are present it is a singular fact that they are always painless and unattended with any inconvenience except such as arises from their numbers and bulk. The number of such tumours is sometimes amazingly great: thus, in one of R. W. Smith's cases, described in a monograph which contains a full and accurate account of this disease, he counted in the two lower extremities alone more than 250 of these growths, besides those in other parts of the body. In another case related by him, there were upwards of 200 small neuromata scattered over the sides of the chest and abdomen, 450 on the right lower extremity, and upwards of 300 on the left; altogether probably no fewer than 2000 of these growths in " this unprecedented case." Multiple neuromata are often congenital, and occur in young subjects. Other tumours besides fibromata are occasionally met with in connexion with nerves. Myxomata are perhaps the most frequent. In 1870 I amputated the leg for a spindle- celled sarcoma of considerable size, which was found on dissection to have sprung from the posterior tibial nerve.- Under the name of plexiforni neuroma, Yerneuil has • described a very rare form of tumour met with in the sub- • cutaneous tissue, especially in the neck and upper part of the face. It is composed of a group of nervous twigs,, thickened by a fibrous growth in the epineurium. The- convoluted, twisted in all directions, and nodular, and are heldl together by loose areolar tissue. It is probably always of congenital origin.. -Vccordino- to Gowers about twentv cases have been recorded. ^ The painful subcutaneous tubercle (see Yol. I., p. 1022) is probably, also a fibroma connected with a nervous twig. . Traumatic Neuromata may arise from the wound or partial division of a nerve The central end of every divided nerve becomes more or less bulbous, the enlargement being composed partly of dense fibrous tissue and partly of newly fonned nerve fibres. As a rule this condition, which must be regard.,! as normal, is unattended with any pain or discomfort. Occasionally, however, the enlargement reaches the size of a nut or pigeon's egg, and then the growth must be ?egarded as a true tumour. It may be acutely tender and give rise to the most intense neuralgic pain. Treatment.—neuroma should be interfered with unless it is causing in- convenience by the pain it gives rise to or by its bulk. Pig. 421. — Neuroma witli Nervous Filaments spread out overTuniour. twigs are If it becomes neces-