INGUINAL HERNIA. 863 CHAPTER LXI. SPECIAL HERISriiE. INGUINAL HEBNIA. By Inguinal Hernia is meant that protrusion which occupies the whole or a portion of the inguinal canal, and when fully formed, passes out of the external abdominal ring into the scrotum. An inguinal hernia is said to be Incomplete or a Bubonocele, so long as it is contained withm the canal; 60m- plete, when it passes out of the external ring ; Scrotal, when it distends the scrotum ; Ohlique, when it occupies the whole course of the canal ; Direct, when it passes forwards through a limited extent of it; Congemtal, when it descends through an unobliterated processus vaginalis and lies in the sac of the tunica vaginalis ; and Encysted, or Infantile, when it lies behind this. Inguinal hernifs constitute the commonest species of rupture, and would be much more frequent than they are, were it not for the obliquity of the canal, and the manner in which its sides are applied to one another, and closely over- lap the spermatic cord. They occur with greatest readiness in those cases in which the canal is short and the apertures wide. Although these herniae are commonly incomplete in their early stages, it is seldom that they come under observation of the Surgeon until the protrusion has passed beyond the external abdominal ring. Oblique Inguinal Hernia, often called External, on account of its relation to the epigastric artery, passes through the whole length of the canal, from one ring to the other. Coverings of Oblique Hernia.—As the hernia passes along the canal, it necessarily receives the same investments as the spermatic cord, although these are often greatly modified by being elongated, hypertrophied, and other- wise altered in appearance. If we regard the inguinal canal as consisting of a series of protrusions of the different layers of the abdominal parietes, the outermost being the skin, and the innermost the fascia transversalis with the peritoneum applied to this, it is easy to understand how the hernia in its descent has these prolongations drawn over it, thus becoming successively invested with the same coverings as the spermatic cord. Thus it first pushes . before it that portion of the peritoneum which lies in the fossa just external to the epigastric vessels ; it next receives an investment from the subperitoneal fat, which, uniting with the fascia transversalis, constitutes the fascia propria of the sac ; as it passes under the internal oblique, it receives some of the fibres of this muscle, in the shape of the cremasteric fascia ; and, lastly, when • it reaches the external abdominal ring, which it greatly distends and renders round and open, it becomes covered by the intercolumnar fascia, receiving also a partial investment around its neck from some of the expanded and thickened fibrous bands that lie near the ring, and which are always most marked upon its outer side.