TREATMENT OF ENLARGED PROSTATE. i H7 4 In Chronic C^jsUtis, without complication, the absence of the physical sigts 0? enlarged p'ostate, as ascertained by examination by the rectum and ni-ethra, will establish the diagnosis. „;„f^ri wi't-li TAtom, of IM Bladder is, as before stated, very commonly assocated ^.th ento^d p ostate. Its absence would be shown by the unne flowing flom tit catheter in a steady stream, not influenced by the respiratory movements, indicating an active contraction of the bladder. „«v,,f^nTi of (;. True Farcdi/sis of the bladder, accompanied by a similar affection of other parts, is recognized by its concomitant conditions, and by the absence of physS signs ofenlarged prostate, and, as in atony, by the passive nature of the flow of urine through the catheter. i j v Treatment.-In the treatment of enlarged prostate, little can be done by medical means : though the patient's condition may be somewhat ameliorated by remedies calculated to lessen irritation about the urinary organs and to improve the condition of the urine. If it be very acid, alkalies with hyoscya- mus should be given. If the symptoms of chronic ^y^^itis make heir appearance, the various remedies recommended in the treatment of that disease may be given. If h^Bmorrhage occurs, tincture of perchloride of iron, infusion of uva ursi, or gallic acid, wil be useful. Counter-irritation, the apphcation Fi". 905.—Elbowed Catlieter. of iodine, and other measures intended to promote absorption of the enlarged gland, are not of the slightest service. In the great majority of cases the sole treatment of enlarged prostate consists in the regular use of the catheter, in order to draw off rettiined urine; and when once this treatment has been commenced, it must be continued for the remainder of life, the patient being taught to use the instrument for himself. In almost all cases a Jaques's flexible india-rubber catheter can be passed into the bladder. Its use is so perfectly painless and free from danger, that it should always be tried before adopting more severe measures. If from any cause it be necessary to retain such an instrument, Hutchinson uses a nozzle with rings passed into the orifice of the india-rubber catheter, and fitted with a "styletted plug." The nozzle is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and is fitted accurately by the plug. The stylet reaches about two inches down the catheter so as to stiffen it. With such an instrument in use, the patient need not be confined to bed. If the soft rubber catheter will not pass, by far the most convenient instrument in the majority of cases is the soft French " elbowed" catheter—the catheter a coude, of the size and shape here represented (Fig. 905). The stem is soft and pliable, but the angle and eyed point are made oF firm gum-catheter material. By keeping the point well up against the urethra, it will often slip in very easily and smoothly in cases of enlai'ged prostate. These catheters are made with their points bent at different angles or wath double elbows, instead of single, and very often when one will not pass, another of a slightly different form will slip in readily.