371 EXCISION OF JOINTS: INDICATIONS. strongly advocated excision for disease of joints, and satisfied himself by ex- periments on the dead body that it was practicable in the hip as well as in the shoulder. Although the head of the humerus was not removed by White, it certainly was three years later by J. Bent of Newcastle, who in illl excised by a formal and pre-arranged operation the carious head of the humerus with complete success. His example was followed in 1778 by Orred of Chester, who also operated successfully in a similar case. About the same time, 1775, Justamond, Surgeon to the Westminster Hospital, removed, in a case of disease of the elbow-joint, the olecranon and two inches of the ulna. In 1762, Filkin of Northwich removed the articular ends of the femur and tibia, together with the patella, in a man afPected with disease of the knee- joint, the result of a fall from a horse. Filkin was led to this operation, in consequence of having experimentally practised it on a dead subject, as a substitute for amputation of the limb, to which the patient refused to submit. The patient recovered rapidly, had a useful limb on which he was able to walk long distances, and was certainly alive nearly thirty years after the operation. This remarkable case seems to have attracted little, if any, attention, and indeed was not published until 1790, after Park of Liverpool brought before the Profession his second successful case of excision of the knee-joint, which occurred in 1789. That Surgeon had performed his first operation of this kind most successfully, as regarded utihty of limb, in 1781, apparently without any knowledge of the operation that had been done by Filkin. The example thus set by the English Surgeons was speedily followed by the Moreaus in France, who, between the years 1786 and 1789, presented various memoirs to the French Academy on this subject. The operation, however, was violently opposed by the great body of Surgeons, and, with the exception of the occasional removal of the head of the humerus, fell into almost complete neglect both in this country and abroad for a period of nearly forty years, during which time the records of Surgery do not contain as many cases in which the articular ends of bones were excised for disease. It continued in this languid state until 1821, when it received anew and vigorous impulse, as far as its application to diseases of the elbow was concerned, by the publica- tion of Syme's essay on that subject, and by the practice of Liston some years subsequently at University College Hospital. In 1845 these operations were again prominently brought before the Profession by the performance of excision of the head of the femur by Fergusson ; and although excision of the knee-joint had occasionally been practised by Syme, Crampton, Textor, Demme, Heyfelder, and others, it was not until its revival in 1850 by the same accomplished Surgeon, that it came to be extensively practised. Since that period, the operation of excision has been applied to almost every joint within reach of the Surgeon's knife. In considering the subject of the excision of joints, we must endeavour to lay down some general rules for the performance of the operations in those cases in which alone they are admissible. Indications for Excision.—The excision of an articulation may be practised for the following reasons :— 1. As a substitute for amputation in cases in which the joint is so extensively diseased that the patient will be worn out by the discharge or pain, unless it be removed. Here a useful limb may be secured by the sacrifice of the diseased part. 2. In some cases of articular disease in which amputation would not he n B 2