ORGANIC STRICTURE: SYMPTOMS. "79 anon it, are dilated, often to a considerable size. This o/^7^ ^^.^ rfloor of the pi'ostatio urethra. These small pits and hollows often cau^ considerable embarrassment in treatment, the instrunient lodg ng m them Xr having safely passed the stricture. The cause of these f f t me tension to'which this part of the ui-ethra is -posed dun^^^^^ carition, owing to the obstruction in front and the powerful hypertropbiea T'M'adder in all well-marked cases of stricture «bows evidence of chronic cystitis. Its mucous membrane is thickened, rigid, and of an ash- .rey colour. If from any cause the condition has been aggravated befo e deih d^rk-red and purple patches will be found upon it. As a -le the c^^^^^^^ of the bladder is diminished, and its muscular coat greatly hypertrophied o-ivino- rise to marked fasciculation of its inner surface. In exceptional cases especfally in old men, it may be dilated as well as thickened ; saccuh are veiy '™The Ureters are often more or less dilated. This is not, as was formerly supposed, due to regurgitation of urine, but to obstruction to the orifice of the ureter by the chronic inflammation of the mucous membrane and the hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the bladder ; the force that dilates the ureter being the force of secretion from the kidney. The further changes that occur in the pelvis and in the kidneys are fully described in Chapter LXV. , Symptoms.—The amount of constitutional disturTjance set up by a stricture will vary greatly in different cases. In most instances it is not very great. The extent to which the constitution is influenced will generally be in proportion to the tightness and duration of the stricture ; but it is surprising how much constitutional irritation is set up m some systems by a stricture, even though it be not very tight. The interference with the free flow of urine ultimately causes secondary mischief in the kidneys, the nature and the symptoms of which have been described m Chapter LXV., to which I must refer the reader. In some cases the consti- tutional symptoms are rather of a nervous character ; the patient suffering not only great pain in micturition, but being seized with rigors, followed by prostration, each time the urine flows over the tender and irritable surface. The Local Signs of stricture are always well marked, and are dependent simply on the mechanical obstacle presented by the contracted urethra to the free escape of the urine. The disease usually commences with the retention in the urethra of a few drops of urine after evacuation of the contents of the bladder ; these escape and wet the clothes. The patient finds that he has to pass urine more frequently than usual, both by night and by day ; there is some straining, perhaps a slight gleety discharge, and a feeling of weakness about the genital organs. The stream of urine becomes gradually smaller, as the part of the urethra anterior to the stricture is not distended as is normally the case during the act of micturition. Alterations in the shape of the stream, such as forking, twisting, and scattering, are often mentioned as symptoms of stricture, but are rarely observed ; indeed, it seems hardly conceivable that a constriction in the bulbous portion of the urethra can determine the shape of the stream which flows from the meatus. As the disease advances, these signs