3 I 2 MCIDENTSOFHEBNIOTOUY: PERITONITIS-ElfTEBmS. 85, ,it is evident that these can have no influence when the source of infection .ffiomes from within the gut. «„mpHmos all the ordinary >1 The Symptoms vary much m different cases. Sometimes au j signs of acute inflammation of the peritoneum are presen . ^'^^ ^ rwerr;3y^=pe« ^ r=rs:^;&-1 syn. toms abov mZoneA are little marked, and the patient dies rap.dly of acute rt c PoTsoub™. Two or three days after the operation, the pat,ent becomes :;e';rd with a quick and weak pulse, an -xious countenance a tnmrd a^^^^ tvimanitic abdomen, and rapid sinking of strength. In the majority 01 Z however, some of the ordinary local signs of pentomtis are present mer del h, the abdominal cavity will be found to contain a quan ity of ruib d serous fluid mixed with flakes of lymph ; m many instances n such quandty as to give it a puriform appearance, and not unfrequently matfcino- toffebher the coils of intestine. ^ • ■ l ^ ' Thematment of this complication is best conducted by the admimstration of opium. A pill containing gr. j of opium may be given every fourth or skth hour, and hot fomentations should be applied to the abdomen. The p^Lt must be confined to barley-water, milk and ice. If ^^^^f;-^-;^^^^ subsides, the constipation which is occasioned by it will be relieved without purgatives. The tympanites may be removed in some cases by the passage ot a long tube up the rectum. If there be any reason to suppose that the peri- tonitis is due to perforation of the gut or the supervention of gangrene, arid i the patient's general condition allow of it, laparotomy may perhaps hold out slight hope in an otherwise hopeless case. , • j Localized Peritonitis is of common occurrence. It is not characterized by any very evident symptoms beyond pain and tenderness at some point ot the abdomen near the seat of the hernia. It is most commonly due to the condition of the gut when reduced, and is often conservative m character. Thus in a case in University College Hospital, in which the patient died six days after the operation from bronchitis and emphysema, the part of the intestine which had been nipped was found to be firmly adherent to the surrounding coils by recent inflammatory exudation. Opposite the seat ot stricture was a small slough, about half an inch in diameter, affecting the whole thickness of the coats. It was already partly separated, and had the patient not died from other causes, would probably have been thrown off into the intestine, without fascal extravasation, owing to the firmness of the surrounding adhesions. The presence of the signs of local peritonitis are of importance only as indicating the necessity of avoiding purgatives or even enemata, until they have passed off. The patient must be kept slightly under the influence of opium to maintain rest of the inflamed bowel till all tenderness has disappeared. Acute Catarrhal Inflammation of the Mucous Membrane of the intestine or Acute Enteritis occasionally follows reduction of a strangulated hernia whether by taxis or by operation, and may prove fatal. In this condi- tion the vomiting continues, but becomes altered in character, being no longer