593 POLYPUS OF THE NOSE. necessary for the preservation of life. Plugs in the posterior nares behind the soft palate are a source of very great distress to most people, and in old persons will rapidly cause exhaustion by interference with the breathing and sleep. I believe that by attention to proper constitutional and by per- severance in milder local treatment plugging of the posterior nares may commonly be avoided. When absolutely required it is best done by carrying a long piece of strong whip-cord along the floor of the nose through the posterior nares into the pharynx, by means of Bellocq's sound (Fig. 669), or, if this be not at hand, by threading the cord through an elastic catheter, and carrying this into the pharynx, then seizing the cord as it appears behind the soft palate, and drawing it forwards into the mouth, at the same time thac the catheter is taken out of the nostril. In this way the string will pass through the nose, round the back of the soft palate, and out of the mouth (Fig. 670). To the middle of the piece of string that hangs out between the '• Sound. Fig. 070.-Dia^raia of Plugging the No-stril by means of Bellocq's Sound. hps, a plug of hnt, about the size of the first joint of the thumb, or better still a piece of compressed sponge, should be firmly tied ; this is then drawn up into the posterior nares by pulling on the end of the ligature that hangs from the nose, being guided in its passage behind the palate by the fingers introduced into the mouth. When the bleeding has ceased, it may readily be withdrawn l^y means of the string that hangs out of the mouth. As the epistaxis is very iipt to recur, it is a wise precaution, when the plug is removed from behind tl.e palate, to leave a loop of string in the nose and mouth, which maybe knotted and fixed by a shp of plaster behind the ear. In this way the plug ■nay, if necessary, be readily replaced without the necessity of re-introducino- tlie sound or catheter through the nose. TUMOURS OF THE NASAL FOSSiE. wif^'"^''!,^''~TT°'''' f ^^'^ ^'^^'^""^ Structure and composition are met with m the nostrils : and to all of those which possess the common characters of being pendulous and blocking up these passages, the term Polypus is given VOL. II. •^'^ = Q Q