RESULTS OF EXCISION OF KNEE. 453 osseous ankylosis will ensue, and a good and useful straight limb will be obtained. Results of Excision.—These have to be considered from two points of view : 1. The danger attending the operation, and 2. The utility of the limb left after it. 1. Statistics have been published in great abundance relative to excision of the knee, with the object partly of showing the absolute mortality and partly of contrasting excision with amputation. The general result of the older records was to show that about 30 per cent, of all excisions of the knee were fatal chiefly from septicEemia, pysemia and exhaustion from prolonged suppuration, and that the mortality after amputation for disease of the knee was about the same. This heavy death-rate has, however, been greatly reduced, partly by the operation being undertaken at an earlier period, and not only as a last resource in order to save life, and partly by the modern improve- ments in the treatment of wounds. The following may be given as examples of later results. Kocher, an advocate of early antiseptic excision, in 1881, recorded 64 cases with 6 deaths, 3 from septic poisoning in the early days of the antiseptic treatment, 1 from haemorrhage, 1 from carbolic acid poisoning, and 1 from acute tuberculosis. Messing, in order to illustrate the eflFects of the mode of dressing, collected 92 cases from the hospital at Kiel: 21 were performed before the introduction of tlie antiseptic treatment—of these, 7 died directly from the operation ; 23 were treated by antiseptic methods involving frequent change of dressing, and of these 2 died ; the remaining 48 cases were treated by the lasting antiseptic dressing, and of these only 1 died, from haemophiKa. Of the 92 cases, 14 underwent subsequent amputation. Sack of Dorpat, in 1880 published the results of 144 cases treated antiseptically by various Surgeons : of these, 25 or 17-3 per cent, died ; 4 from infective processes in the wound, 13 from tuberculosis and other general diseases existing before the operation, 1 from chloroform, and 1 from carbolic acid poisoning, 2 from causes unconnected with the operation, and 4 from causes not stated. Of the 119 who survived, 11 underwent subsequent amputation, making exactly 75 per cent, of successes and 25 per cent, of failures. Howse published in 1892 the results of 130 excisions of the knee performed by him at Guy's Hospital and at the Evelina Hospital for Sick Children during the years 1873 to 1884. Of these cases only G.2 per cent, died within six months after the operation, and of these only 4 deaths occurred during the first month and could be considered in any way directly due to the excision. As in the present day amputation is performed only in those cases in which from visceral disease, extensive implication of the soft parts and bones or advanced age, excision is no longer practicable, no fair comparison can be made between the two operations as regards mortality. 2. The second point that has to be determined is as to the Utility of the Limb after the Operation. On this point, the result of recorded cases is in favour of the operation. In one of Park's cases, operated on in 1783, that Surgeon states that the patient (a sailor), seven years after the operation, " was able to go aloft with consider- able agility, and to perform all the duties of a seaman." In some of the later • cases the result has been equally good. A boy, operated upon by Jones of Jersey, " could run and walk quickly without any aid of a stick, could stand