TREATMENT OF SUPPURATING SAC. 131 ac has suppurated have had a fatal termination, and in almost all of these Tath LsXd f om heemorrhage. The patients in a few remaining mstan e ^a^l been arried off by some special accidents, such as the pressure of the sac on he pharynx or oesophagus, or the discharge of the conten s of the tumour Lto tL pTeura or bronchia! tubes. Haemorrhage is more likely to occur when uppur t^^^^^^^^^ place a few weeks after the ligature of the artery, than when a longer interval has elapsed. That hemorrhage does not happen moie frequen ly after suppuration of the sac is very remarkable, and must be owing r to the arter/being plugged with coaguhim above and below the cn.^ of the aneurism, or, if the artery be. pervious, to the closure of the mouth of the sac by coagulum. It is owing to this plugging also, that m many cases the fatal bleeding does not occur at the moment of rupture, but only after a lapse of some days, or even weeks, and then, as a rule, owing to some incautious movement of the patient by which the coagulum is suddenly disturbed. Those cases are most dangerous in which pulsation has returned m the sac after the hgature of the vessel but before the supervention of suppuration ; as m these the tumour is so freely supplied with blood that, if it burst, fatal hemorrhage will with certainty occur. This accident is more likely to occur in aneurisms of the axilla or grom than in those of the ham or of the neck. The proximity of the hgature and the necessary interference with the sac in its application, especially m arge axillary or inguinal aneurisms, is undoubtedly a fi-equent cause of it. The large size which these tumours rapidly attain, in consequence of the laxity of their areolar connections, also favours it. Until recently it was believed that the occurrence of simple coagulation, instead of gradual deposit of laminated fibrin, was an important factor in the production of suppuration of the sac ; but our late experience of the treatment of aneurism by rapid compression clearly shows that the danger has been greatly exaggerated. In other cases it is probable that the suppuration of the sac is a consequence of pyemic infec- tion from the wound, corresponding to those cases in which we find the for- mation of pus occurring in injured or diseased tissues at a distance from the septic wound. Besides this, it has been very justly remarked by Porter,^ that the excessive handling and frequent examination to which an aneurismal tumour is usually subjected in a hospital may induce inflammation and predispose to suppuration. The 'period at which suppuration of the sac may occur after the ligature, varies from a few days to as many months. In the majority of instances, it would appear to take place between the third and eighth weeks ; later than this it seldom happens, though it may do so after the lapse of sevei-al months, as in a case recorded by Astley Cooper, in which a carotid aneurism suppurated at the eighth month. Treatment.—When an aneurism is suppurating, and is on the point of giving way, it will be better to make an incision into it with antiseptic precautions, so as to let out the broken down contents at once. It must