396 DISEASES OF THE WRIST-JOINT. useful arm, of which the iuinexed figure is a good representation, was left (Fig. 55G). After a time the hand gradually inclines towards the radial side of the arm ; but, although the articulation between it and the forearm is but a slender one through the medium of the ulna, a very useful membei- will be left. These operations do not require any specific rules for their performance ; the bone is exposed by a long incision in the direction of, and made by slitting up, the sinuses that burrow amongst the muscles, and is then carefully dissected out from the parts amongst which it lies ; especial care being taken to preserve the periosteum and any new bony deposits that may already have been formed. In one case in which the elbow-joint was involved, and the radius diseased, instead of amputating the limb I obtained an excellent result by excision of the articulation as well as of the affected bone. The patient, a builder about thirty years of age, was able, four years after the operation, to use his hand not only for all the ordinary purposes of life, but also in his trade. The Olecrauon has been successfully removed in some instances ; for dis- ease by Birkett of Guy's Hospital; and on account of non-union after fracture by Newman of Stamford. In each case a useful arm was retained. DISEASES OF THE WBIST-JOINT. Tuberculous disease of the wrist is more common in adults than in children. Watson Cheyne believes that the disease is often primarily synovial and that when it commences as an osseous deposit, this is usually in the lower end of the radius or in the base of one of the metacarpal bones, especially the second and third. Although the disease rarely begins in the carpus, this is usually secondarily affected through its synovial cavities. It is an important fact that in tuberculous- disease of the wrist the surrounding tendon sheaths may become extensively affected, whilst in other cases the primary disease seems to be a tuberculous teno-synovitis, the joint being involved secondarily. In some instances also the joint disease has followed chronic effusion into the sheath of the flexor tendons, the so-called " compound ganglion." ^ In these cases the distended sheath has contained melon-seed bodies, a condition which is itself in all probability often tuberculous. In cases of tuberculous disease of the wrist requiring operative interference excision has given good results in adults. In children, as we have seen, the disease is rare and should be treated as far as possible by partial operations. Amputation will sometimes be found necessary when the disease is very exten- sive or when recurrence has occurred after excision. Excision of the Wrist formerly found less favour with Surgeons than the removal of other joints. The objections raised to it were, first, that in caries of the carpus the disease very often extends rapidly, with great consti- tutional disturbance, to all the small bones that enter into its formation, and consequently partial operations rarely succeeded in curing the disease ; and secondly, that owing to the superficial character of the articulation, and its close connexion with the flexor and extensor tendons, methodical operations by the older methods were almost invariably followed by a stiff and useless hand. Further experience has, however, shown that complete excision of the carpus with the lower ends of the bones of the forearm, and the bases of the meta- carpal bones, may in suitable cases be undertaken with a good prospect ot preserving a useful hand. I had a case in 1858, in the person of a middle-aged