I076 URINARY CALCULUS AND LLTHOTRITY. CHAPTER LXVIII. URINARY CALCULUS {continued). LITHOTRITY. The operation of Lithotrity, by which the stone is crushed in the bladder and the fragments expelled or extracted through the urethra, is of 117 beir^^d ™^ '^^^ "^^^ d'ff^r^it times h been made with this view, it was not until about the year 1818 or 1820 tha the subjec began to attract serious attention ; and to the French .Surgeons i undoubtedly due the great merit of having introduced this operation. Abou this time Civiale, followed by Amussat, Leroy, and others, began constructing instruments, which, though very imperfect, yet were sufficient to break down a calculus in the bladder. This was publicly done by Civiale in 1822. From this period hthotrity made rapid progress; and the successive improvements made by the Surgeons whose names have just been mentioned, together with the ingenious mechanical adaptations introduced by Charriere and Weiss enabled Surgeons to attack the stone with certainty and eflFect. The importance of lithotrity was urged upon the profession by Civiale Amussat and Heurteloup in France and Brodie and Costello in this country' The practice thus established by these Surgeons has from time to time been improved by the ingenuity of others, amongst whom Fergusson, Coulson and Thompson are conspicuous. Up to the year 1878 the operation of lithotrity . was practised on the lines originally laid down by Civiale and Brodie, the mam features of which were to crush the stone by repeated operations, each limited to a few minutes, and to allow the fragments to be passed by the natural efforts of the patient. In 1878, however, Bigelow of Boston demonstrated 1 that it was possible to break the stone up at one prolonged operation, andf completely to wash out the fragments at the same time through a large catheter or evacuator. To this method of operating he gave the name of " Litholapaxy," but its enormous advantage over the older methods was so - quickly recognized, and it so speedily became universally adopted, that the > distinctive name is now unnecessary, and when we speak of lithotrity we ^ mean crushing the stone and removing the fragments at the same time by Bigelow's method. By this great improvement Bigelow not only reduced the sufferings of the patient and the dangers of the operation, but made it applicable to much larger stones than could possibly be removed by the older method. Instruments.—The instruments required for lithotrity are the following : An ordinary sound with a short beak is required to examine the condition of the bladder. The steel sound should be hollow, so that the bladder may, il necessary, be injected through it after or during sounding, without the neces- sity of changing the instrument (Fig. 872). This will be found of much service in the later stages of the operation for detecting small fragments.