456 DISEASES OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. order to obviate the tendency to varus which will ensue. In the case from which the annexed drawings are taken, very considerable repair took place from the periosteum and soft tissues along the line of bone that had been removed ; and the child, when examined two years after the operation, had an excellent, well-nourished, and useful limb. The foot, however, had a tendency to be drawn inwards, apparently owing to the flexors having overcome the antagonism of the peronei. This deviation inwards was counteracted by a properly constructed boot, with which walking was perfectly easy. The commonest form of sarcoma of the tibia is a central myeloid sarcoma of the upper extremity ; subperiosteal sarcoma is alfeo more common in the"upper part of the bone than the lower. Sarcoma of the fibula is rare, and usually attacks the upper end of the bone. DISEASES OP THE ANKLE-JOINT. The ouly affection of the ankle which needs special consideration here is tuberculous disease. In a cousideral^le number of cases this begins after an injury and it has already been mentioned as an occasional sequela of a sprained ankle. The disease may be primarily synovial, or it may begin as a bone deposit, which, according to Watson Cheyne, is probably most common in the astragalus, but may occur in the upjjer part of either malleolus. The swelling, which is usually the earliest and most marked symptom of the disease, is generally most evident between the malleoli and the teudo Achillis ; it fills the natural hollows around the joint and obscures the various tendons which pass in front of it. As in the case of the wrist, the tendon sheaths themselves may be diseased in association with, or independently of, disease of the joint itself. Should suppuration occur the position of the abscesses varies much, but very frequently they come to the surface behind one or both malleoli. It is a point of great practical importance that neither the position of the swelling or abscess, nor the character of the impaired movement, may be sufficient to differentiate with certainty disease of the ankle-joint from disease of the tarsus not implicating the joint. In cases in which operation becomes necessary, the Surgeon should, therefore, make it his first endeavour to clear up this doubt by a careful exploratory incision and thus avoid the serious error of opening a healthy joint. The Treatment of tuberculous disease of the ankle in its early stages should consist in fixing the joint at right angles with plaster of Paris, or with a leather or poroplastic splint. The patient may then be allowed to get about with the limb supported on a knee-rest. Operative interference is called for if the pulpy swelling increases and chronic abscess forms. In some cases good results have been obtained by freely opening and draining the abscesses anti- septically, stiU maintaining the joint at perfect rest. In cases in which this simple treatment has failed, or in which from the extent of the disease it is not practicable, the question arises : Can the Surgeon hope, by any conserva- tive operation, to obtain a limb which will be more serviceable to the patient than the stump left by a Syme's amputation ? , • i-, ■, Formal excision of the ankle-joint has not, on the whole, yielded satis- factoiy results, and accordingly, considering the excellent results obtained by Syme's amputation, this has been extensively practised in stages ot tue