ACUTE NECROSIS: SYMPTOMS. 277 pya3mia. The treatment certainly deserves a trial when amputation is for any reason unadvisable. ACUTE NEOKOBIS. Acute Necrosis is an acute infective inflammation almost exclusively met with before the growth of the skeleton is complete. The affection is known by many other names, such as acute diffuse periostitis, phlegmonous periostitis, infective periostitis, infective periostitis and osteomyelitis, acute infective osteomyelitis, acute suppurative epiphysitis, necrosial fever and bone- typhus ; but the term " acute necrosis " is perhaps the best in the present state of our knowledge, as it does not imply any theory as to the exact nature of the disease and starting-point of the inflammation. Symptoms.—A typical case of acute necrosis presents the following symp- toms. The patient is usually a child below the age of puberty, and most com- monly a male. He is often strumous and usually in somewhat feeble health, possibly the result of a recent attack of some acute specific disease, as scarlet fever or measles. There is in most cases a history of some slight injury, but this is by no means constant. The attack begins with a sudden invasion like that of a specific fever. There is high temperature, often reaching 105° F. or even higher, occasionally with a rigor or convulsion. Headache, loss of appetite, thirst, and sometimes vomiting or diarrhoea are present. At first the local affection may escape observation, and such cases are not unfrequently mistaken at the commencement for one of the acute specific diseases. By the second or third day, however, the local symptoms become manifest. The parts covering one of the long bones, most commonly the tibia, femur or humerus, are found to be swollen and acutely tender. At first the skin is pale, but it soon becomes reddened. By the fourth or fifth day, or sometimes not till the end of a week, distinct fluctuation is recognized, often extending over the whole of the shaft of the affected bone. At this time on moving the limb, distinct, though somewhat soft crepitus may be felt, and it will then be found that one or sometimes both the epiphyses may be loosened from the diaphysis. As a rule the joints escape, but occasionally one or both of the articulations into which the bone enters become distended with flnid. If at this stage an incision be made into the swollen parts down to the bone, a large quantity of pus escapes, and on inserting the finger the greater part of the diaphysis may be felt to be denuded of its periosteum. All'this time the febrile disturbance persists, and by the end of a week may assume the ordinary characters of pyaemia. Symptoms of pneumonia, pleurisy and pericarditis and endocarditis may supervene and death take place before the abscess has been opened. The disease does not, however, always run this typical course. The following are the chief modifications met with. The threatened suppuration in some very rare cases does not take place. The inflammation of the periosteum gradually subsides in intensity, and assumes the osteoplastic form. A case of this kind occurred lately in University College Hospital in a youth aged about 19. No suppuration took place, the acute symptoms rapidly subsided, and the femur became gradually enlarged to more than double its natural size through- out the whole shaft, from formation of new bone under the periosteum. In other cases, although pus forms early, the extent to which the periosteum is raised from the bone is more limited, being confined to one end or the middle