GENERAL DIAGNOSIS OF SCROTAL TUMOURS. 1265 from the other constituents of the cord and w divide it separately. If it be ftnd diseased it maybe drawn down and a further piece removed m the hnrip of o-ettins: above the disease. , A te number of vessels usually require ligature m the sci-otum. Al bleed n'^from this source must be very thoroughly arrested, otherwise the loose tissues of the scrotum may become distended with extravasated blood 1st be accurately closed with sutures and a drainage-tube inserted at its Therfis one danger that may occur in castration in children. It is that in younrsuSect tt F^^^^^^^ testis may not be obUtei-ated and th^ Ihus the peritoneum' may be opened up into the wound on dmdmg the cord. En one case I have known this condition lead to fatal peritonitis. In some cases considerable induration and tenderness persist m the position of the stump of the divided cord, and occasionally the ligatures se up Citation, and may lead to a small abscess, which refuses to heal until the ligatures have come away. After castration for tubercubus disease a chiwc abscess may form around the cord, probably as the result of the vas deferens having been diseased above the point of division. GENERAL DIAGNOSIS OF SCROa?AL TUMOURS. The diao-nosis of scrotal tumours is not only of considerable importance, but is often attended with very great difficulty ; the more so, as they are frequently associated with one another, so that much tact and care are required to discriminate their true nature. Thus, it is not uncommon to find a hydrocele and a hernia ; a hydrocele and a varicocele ; or these affections co-existing with a solid tumour of the testicle. In other cases, again, as in Fig. 957, a carcinomatous tumour may co-exist with a hydro- cele of the tunica vaginalis, and with an encysted hydrocele of the cord ; and the different forms of hydrocele may occur together. Tumours of the scrotum may, from a diagnostic point of view, be divided into two distinct classes:— 1, the Reducible ; and 2, the Irreducible. 1. Reducible Tumours.—These are Hernia, Congeuital Hydrocele, Diffuse Hydrocele of the Cord, and Varicocele ; in all of which the swelling can be made to disappear more or less completely by pressure and by the patient lying down; re- appearing on the removal of the pressure, or on his assuming the erect posture. The mode in which the tumour disappears tends greatly to estabhsh its diagnosis ; though the general character of the swelling, and the histoiy of the case, afford important collateral evidence on this point. a. In Hernia there are the ordinary signs of this affection, such as impulse on coughing, &c. On reducing the tumour, it will be found that its return into the abdomen is accompanied by a gurgling noise, and by the sudden slip upwards of an evidentiy solid body. In the other reducible tumours, tiie Pig. 957.—Carciuoma of the Tes- ticle with Hydroceles of the Tunica Vaginalis and of the Cord. VOL. II. 4 M