ACQUIRED CLUB-FOOT. 559 .rooves in the under surface of the director. It is most convenient to divide the distal side first. The soft parts are then cleaned from the under surface of the wedge of bone by means of a blunt knife or elevator, and the wedge removed in one piece. If the heel is much drawn up the tendo Achillis can be divided after the operation. Davies-Co ley found the most convenient apparatus during the early P^^t of the after- treatment, to be " a back-splint extending from the middle of the thigh to within four inches of the heel. To the distal end of this was fastened a transverse bar of wood, terminating on either side m short upright bars, to which the fore part of the foot was attached by means of strapping." R. Davy uses a splint made of two iron rods iixed to the lower part of the thigh and upper part of the leg by a plaster of Paris bandage. The lower end of each rod is cut into a screw. A foot-piece fixed on a transverse iron bar with a rincr at each end slides over the two rods and is fixed by a washer and thumb- piece on each side. The foot-piece is fixed by a pivot and screw to the trans- verse bar and can be rotated so as to evert the anterior part of the foot. ^ The results of these operations have been very satisfactory. In Davies-Colley's case the patient could jump and hop six months after the operation. ^ Davy has performed the operation in twenty cases with only one death. It is evident, however, that such an operation can be justifiable only when all other means have failed, and can very rarely be required in young children. H. P. Symonds instead of removing any bone merely divides the tarsus transversely at the level of the transverse articulation by means of a chain saw passed close to the bones. In this way he has obtained excellent results. All other varieties of congenital club-foot are comparatively rare. Tamplin stated that congenital talipes equinus was unknown, but a few undoubted cases have been recorded. Talipes calcaneus is much less rare and is sometimes associated with spina bifida. The deformity can usually be corrected by manipulation and the application of a metal splint to the front of the leg and the dorsum of the foot. In some cases it may be necessary to divide one or more of the tendons which pass across the front of the ankle. Pure Talipes Valgus is rarely present at birth although a varying degree of inversion is often present in association with calcaneus, forming the variety known as Calcaneo-valgus. The treatment must be carried out upon the same lines as in other forms. Acquired Club-foot may develop at any age but it is most commonly met with in young children, as the result of paralysis of certain muscles or groups of muscles, the foot then being drawn out of position by the uncontrolled action of their opponents. In later life displacement may be the result of the gradual shortening or " contracture^' of the muscles that is not uncommonly met with in hemiplegia. These causes are central, but similar deformities fre- quently result from wounds or other injuries of the nerves supplying the muscles, or from diseases or injuries of the muscles themselves, accompanied by loss of substance and consequent shortening. The changes which take place in the foot consist chiefly in the shortening of those tendons and ligaments which are relaxed by the abnormal position. The bones are normal (Fig. G49), except in extreme cases in which gradual alterations in their shape may occur. In paralytic cases the affected muscles show the ordinary appearance of atrophy and degeneration. The most common forms of acquired club-foot are talipes equinus and