(ESOPHAGEAL DIVERTICULA. 7^3 recorded. Perforation of the oesophagus, as the result of ulceration, very seldom'occurs except in malignant disease. All forms of ulceration tend to cause narrowing of the canal. In the malignant form this is the result of the cancerous growth surrounding the tube ; in the other varieties it is due to cicatricial contraction as healing takes place. The symptoms of ulceration of Lhe oesophagus are pain and difficulty in swallowing, usually refen-ed to some definite spot. The patient may occasionally bring up blood. The diagnosis of one form of ulceration from another must always be uncertain. Little can be done in the way of treatment beyond supporting the patient's strength by the administration of fluid nourishment. If there is any reason to suspect ulceration great caution should be exercised in passing a bougie, lest the diseased coats be perforated. If the ulceration be not malignant the signs of stricture of the oesophagus manifest themselves as the sore heals. Diverticula from the (Esophagus are occasionally met with. According to Zenker and Von Ziemssen they are of two kinds, one being due to pressure from within, and the other to traction from without. The former are not common : they are formed by a protrusion of the mucous membrane through the muscular coat, usually rather in the lower end of the pharynx than in the oesophagus. The pouch thus formed has varied in the recorded cases from Dhe size of a hazel-nut to that of a child's head. It is always situated behind, lying between the vertebree and the oesophagus, and extending downwards along the spine, in some cases reaching even to the bifurcation of the trachea. The development of the sac is very slow, some of the recorded cases having lasted for ten or even twenty years before giving rise to serious symptoms. The symptoms produced by these diverticula are due to the distension of the sac with food, by which the oesophagus is pressed upon and deglutition inter- fered with to such an extent as even to cause death. When the sac is dis- tended with food it forms a swelling on each side of the neck, in which a gurgling may he felt on manipulation. By firm pressure the food, sometimes in a more or less advanced stage of putrefaction, may be forced back into the pharynx. In some cases the patients have learned to do this for themselves, and by repeatedly emptying the sac and attempting to swallow again, have managed to get down sufficient food to maintain life. A bougie passed down the throat commonly enters the pouch, and can be moved about in it; great care must, however, be used if a diverticulum is suspected, lest the instrument be forced through its wall. The causes of these diverticula are very uncertain. They have been met with most commonly after the age of 30. They are not connected with narrowing of the gullet below. It is probable that they are due to some congenital weakness or malformation of the part. Until recently the treatment of this rare condition was most unsatisfactory. Owing to the difficulty of avoiding the entrance to the pouch, it is almost impossible to feed the patient by means of a tube, and therefore gastrostomy has been performed in cases in which starvation was imminent. During the last few years, how- ever, the suggestion of Konig—to remove the pouch and close the opening— has been successfully put into practice by Von Bergmann, Kocher and Buthn. liutlin's patient was a man, forty-seven years of age, who presented the characteristic symptoms of an oesophageal pouch. The operation was carried out on the lines adopted by Von Bergmann. An incision was made along the anterior border of the left sterno-mastoid from the hyoid bone nearly to the sternum. The omo-hyoid and superior thyroid artery were then divided