SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 214 clavicle as possible, well above the orijj;iu of the acromio-thoracic. If it is necessary to tie it in close proximity to this branch, it would be safer to apply a ligature to the branch also. In practising the operation on the dead body, the vein often is Tiot seen, and it is customary to find the artery by following the acromio-thoracic to its origin. There is little risk of including a cord of the brachial plexus, as the nerves lie well to the coracoid side, separated by a slight interval from the artery. It is frequently found in the dead body that the ligature has been applied above the outer border of the first rib, tiie end of the subclavian being actually the vessel tied. This operation is a very difficult one, on account of the depth of the wound and the numerous venous and arterial branches which ramify across the space in which the vessel lies. Ligature of the third part of the subclavian is to be preferred whenever it is practicable. If it is necessary to tie the axillary, as in the case of a punctured wound, the operation recommended by Guthrie is probably safer and simpler than that just described. It consists in making an incision from the centre of the clavicle directly downwards, in the course of the vessels, to the middle of the anterior fold of the axilla. In this way the skin, superficial fascia, and greater pectoral muscle, must be successively divided. The lesser pectoral will then be exposed ; and the artery may be ligatured above or below this, without further division of muscular substance, or if it be thought desirable to tie it under this, the muscle must be cautiously cut through. When this is done, a very distinct and firm fascia will come into view ; this must be picked up and carefully opened, when the artery and vein will be seen lying parallel to one another, the artery being to the outer side. The vein having been drawn inwards, the aneurism needle must be carried between it and the artery. The second part of the artery has the three cords of the brachial plexus in close contact with it, the inner lying between it and the vein. At the lower border of the pectorahs minor the inner head of the median crosses the artery. Care must be taken not to include these nerves in the hgature. The great advantage of this operation is, that the wound is open and free, and that, consequently, the artery can be more readily reached in any part of its course. The disadvantage is the great division of muscular substance that it entails. This, however, need not leave any permanent weakness of the limb, as by' the use of "sutures and by proper position union may readily be ^^The^'axillary arterv may also be ligatured at any point below the lower border of the pectoralis minor, by making an incision parallel to its course m the axilla The guidinff-hne for the vessel in this situation is obtained by dividino- the space between the anterior and posterior folds of the axilla into three equal parts, when the artery will be found to lie at the junction of the anterior with the middle third. The arm being held at an obtuse angle with the trunk so as to make the skin tense, an incision is made, commencing at the thoracic border of the axilla and extending for a distance of about three inches mrallel to the course of the artery. The incision must be made so as to divide Se skin only. The fascia, being exposed, must be carefully opened when the Ix iCvein will come into view, and must be drawn to one side with a blun hook The artery will now be seen surrounded by the nerves of the brachia Blexiis In front of it or to its inner side is the internal cu aneous. To i fnne side between it and the vein is the ulnar ; the nerve of Wrisberg is still