512 DISEASES OF SllEATlJS OF TENDONS. bones. In a case in University College Hospital, the " compound ganglion " which contained melon-seed bodies was apparently cured by antisenti,. drainage. Some months later caries of the carpus manifested itself, necessi- tating excision of the wrist-joint. The fungating form of tuberculous disease gives rise to an elongated pulpy swelling in the position of the affected sheath, followed by the IVjrmation of a chronic abscess. The Treatment of chronic teno-synovitis should consist in the first pin..- in perfect rest of the affected part, and counter-irritation by blisters or iodiu<-. I have sometimes succeeded in curing this disease at the wrist by the injection of a small quantity of tincture of iodine through a small opening in the palm. The most efficient method, however, consists in antiseptic drainage, a small tube being inserted above and below the annular ligament. If the sheath contain melon-seed bodies and is lined with a pulpy layer, or if it is com- pletely filled with tuberculous granulation-tissue, a free incision must be made into the sheath and the diseased tissue removed by scraping and dissecting. In the case of the common flexor sheath at the wrist, this procedure may necessitate division of the annular ligament, which should aftenvards be sutured. After the operation the hand must be fixed on a splint with the fingers slightly flexed so that any resulting adhesions may be broken down. Simple Ganglion.—This consists of a cyst varying in size from a cherry- stone to a large marble, and containing sometimes a clear transparent fluid of a yellowish colour, but more commonly a pinkish or yellowish gelatinous sub- stance. It occurs as a smooth, globular, elastic, and tense tumour, usually situated on the back of the wrist, where it forms a distinct round projection; it may occur also on the dorsum of the foot. In both situations it is often distinctly connected with the sheaths of the extensor tendons. As the ganglion increases in size, it often gives rise to painful sensations in the parts below it, by pressing upon the neighbouring nerves : thus, a ganglion at the back of the wrist often produces pain and weakness in the hand, by compressing some of the branches of the radial or ulnar nerve which are stretched over it. Ganglion is by far the most common of all the tumours that occur on the hand. In all cases of oval or rounded, smooth, elastic tumour on the hand or finders, whether painful or not, ganglion should always be suspected. A small, hard, and painful ganglion, varying in size from a pin's head to a cherry-stone, is met with in connexion with the flexor tendons of the fingers, usually on the proximal phalanx. If it interferes seriously with the use of the fingers, it may be dissected out. The mode of origin of a simple ganglion is very doubtful. Paget looks upon it as a cystic transformation of the cells enclosed in the fringe-like processes of the synovial membrane lining the sheath of the tendon. Billroth believes it commences as a pouch-like protrusion from the sheath, the neck of which becomes gradually narrowed till at last a separate cyst is formed lying on the sheath, but not communicating with it. It is often impossible by dissection to prove that a simple ganglion at the wrist has had its origin in u tendon sheath, and indeed there is reason to believe that in some instances the cyst has arisen in connexion with the synovial membrane of the wrist or one of the carpal articulations, probably as a protrusion through the capsule. Ganclia are more common in females than males, and in some instances appear to arise after a strain or other slight injury.