3 T 2 1 NEPHROTOMY. ion out not enter it. The urine will probably flow from the wound for some days or weeks, but in several of the recorded cases rapid healing has taken place One of the most extraordinary is that recorded by Bennett May, in which he removed a stone weighing one ounce, and of extremely irregular torm, the wound completely healing in five weeks. The dressmg should be strictly antiseptic, and while the urine is escaping, it must be changed twice a day. , It has already been said that the profuse hemorrhage which as a rule follows incision of the kidney, usually quickly ceases with pressure. In some instances, however, it has been found necessary to plug the wound with strips of gauze, or to pass a ligature deeply through the kidney substance, as suggested by Arbuthnot Lane, and thus close the part of the wound con- taining the bleeding vessel. Nephrectomy is a last resource. Godlee has recorded a case in which the hgemorrhage which occurred during the extraction of a large calculus, and had been arrested by plugging, recurred and proved fatal about an hour after the operation. No better proof can be given of the difficulties attending the diagnosis of l enal calculus than a consideration of the large number of cases in which the kidney has been explored for stone unsuccessfully by operators skilled in this department of Surgery. Morris has recorded no fewer than 28 cases occurring m his own practice. " He classifies the conditions actually present as follows : Tuberculous pyonephritis in 2 cases ; abscess of the kidney in 5 cases; effects of former perinephritis due to injury in 4 cases ; movable kidney in 2 cases ; abscess of prostate in 1 case ; calculus in lower end of ureter in 2 cases ; effects of former passage of a calculus in 2 cases ; disease in neighbouring organs, such as caecum and stomach, in 2 cases ; spinal disease with perinephritic suppuration in 1 case ; undetected renal calculus in 2 cases; no sufficient cause detected in 2 cases. Of the whole series of 28 cases there was disease in the kidney or around it in 21 ; complete recovery followed operation in 14 cases. When the presence of a renal calculus has led to the production of hydro- nephrosis or pyonephrosis, medical treatment is useless, and early surgical interference gives the only chance of cure. The treatment consists in nephro- tomy—simple incision of a kidney distended with pus or urine. The removal of a stone under these circumstances is, as Morris points out, a very different operation from nephro-lithotomy, and should certainly be distinguished by another name, otherwise great confusion must arise in our statistical records. Nephrotomy is performed through an incision in the same position as that employed in nephro-lithotomy, but it need not be so extensive, as no exploration of the surface of the kidney is required. The surface of the enlarged kidney being exposed, it must be punctured with a broad-bladed scalpel, and the finger inserted at the puncture before the fluid escapes. In this way the dilated calyces are easily examined, and should a stone be present it may be removed. After the operation a large drainage- tube is inserted, reaching well into the pelvis of the kidney ; this must gradually be shortened as the cavity closes. Nephrectomy, or excision of the kidney, has frequently been performed with success for calculous pyonephrosis, most commonly for the cure of a fistula resulting from nephrotomy and drainage. Indeed, these simpler means so frequently fail that some Surgeons are of opinion that it is, as a rule, advisable to resort at once to nephrectomy