n TREATMENT OF NJSVUS. Bat, if the naBVus be Large, if it be subcutaneous, if it increase in size, or if it be so situated as to occasion disfigurement, means must be adopted for its removal by operative procedure. Operatiom for the removal of uebvI may be conducted on six principles :— 1, to excite inflammation in them, and so to produce plugging and obliteration of the vascular tissue of which they are composed ; 2, to destroy the growth by . caustics ; 3, to remove it by the cautery ; 4, to consolidate it by electrolysis ; 5, to remove it with the knife ; or, G, to remove it by ligature. Each of these different plans of treatment is applicable when the disease assumes certain forms, and affects certain situations. It will be convenient to consider separately the treatment of the cutaneous, and the subcutaneous or mixed, varieties. Cutaneous Naevus.—A very minute cutaneous neevus can sometimes be obliterated by painting it repeatedly with contractile collodion. Vaccination has been extensively practised, but a ngevus suitable for this treatment can be much more conveniently destroyed by other methods. A cutaneous nasvus of moderate size in such a position that the presence of a linear scar is unimpor- tant, is best treated by excision. An elliptical incision is made around the growth, and the edges of the wound are accurately brought together with horse-hair sutures. If excision is not practicable the nsevus may be destroyed by the use of the cauterij or by caustics. Paquelin's cautery is very con- venient for this purpose ; the fine point may be drawn in lines across the surface of the growth, or numerous punctures may be made into it, especially around the margin. After the operation boric acid ointment or some other simple dressing must be applied. Care must be taken in ax^plying the cautery to large navi not to use it too freely, otherwise troublesome ulceration may be caused by the sloughing of the skin. The galvanic cautery may be used in the same way. Caustics may very conveniently be used when the nasvus is small, very super- ficial, of the capillary character, with an exceedingly thin covering of cuticle, and so. situated, as upon the arm, neck, or back, that a moderate amount of scarrino- is of little consequence. Nitric acid is perhaps the most useful. It should be well rubbed on by means of a piece of stick. The skin round the nsevus may be greased to prevent its being accidentally touched by the acid ; and as soon as the caustic has been sufficiently rubbed in, it must be neutralized with some carbonate of soda. After the separation of the slough, the application must be repeated as often as there is any appearance of prominent granulations sprino-- ing up, which occasionally happens at one angle of the wound, and indicates^'a recurrence of the vascular growth. Acid nitrate of mercury and ethylate of sodium may also be used for destroy- ing small cutaneous n^vi. The ethylate of sodium, which was introduced bv B. W. Eichardson, is employed in the form 'of the official alcoholic solution It IS applied with a small glass rod, and causes the separation of a very super- ficial slough which leaves little scarring. The treatment of extensive " port-wine stains" on the face is very unsatis- factory. Linear scarification has been recommended by Balmanno Squire with the object of causing obliteration of the dilated capillaries, and electro- lysis has been tried for the same purpose, but neither method seems to be of much service. Subcutaneous and Mixed TSl^vi.—Excision when practicable is the best