OSTEOPLASTIC SECTION OF UPPER JAW. 641 o-rowths, after reaioval of the primary taraoiir, do not admit of extirpation. When the tumour is benign, the result is most satisfactory, and the cure usually complete. Tumours that spring from behind the Superior Maxilla have already been referred to in speaking of naso-pharyngeal tumours (p. 596), and in discussing the diagnosis of tumours of the upper jaw (p. 632), They may i^row from the sphenoid bone, or from some of the deep cavities lying between it, the palate bones, and the ethmoid, constituting various forms of naso- pharyngeal, palatine, or naso-palatine polypi. Formerly these tumours were either left untouched, or were extirpated together with the superior maxilla or after its removal. Of late years various operations have been devised without the necessity of removing that bone, which is either turned up, down, or on oue side. The best operation on the whole for their removal is Langenbeck's Osteoplastic Section of the Superior Maxilla, with displacement of that bone. The first operation was performed in 1859. Up to 1877, Langenbeck had performed it 13 times, with 10 complete cures and 3 deaths. It has been performed in Germany also by Esmarch, Wagner, Simon, Nussbaum, and Billroth. The last two performed it for removal of the superior maxillary uerve for neuralgia. In America it has been performed twice by Cheever. In one case, it was done for removal of a tumour growing from the body of [he sphenoid bone ; the tumour recurred, and the operation was repeated at the end of eleven months, with perfect success. In the other case, both bones were displaced at the same operation ; but the patient died on the fifth day of "prostration with excitement." In Langenbeck's first operation, the incision was made from the middle of the nasal eminence of the fe-ontal bone towards the right, over the nasal process of the superior maxilla and down- wards to the ala of the nose. The edges of the wound were dissected up so as to expose the whole nasal process and the nasal bone, the periosteum remaining untouched. The cartilaginous portion of the nose was separated from its bony attachments. The nasal bone was then cut through with bone- forceps, close to the septum, and upwards as far as the frontal bone ; by a second cut the nasal process of the superior maxillary was divided into the antrum. The cut ended where the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone forms the lower border of the orbit. The upper part of the nasal process of the superior "maxillary and the nasal bone were then prised up and were turned on to the forehead, being still attached by periosteum and mucous membrane. The nose was next fully opened, and the polypus was removed. The bones were then replaced and supported in position by a plug of charpie. The wound healed readily, and there was no exfoliation of bone. Langenbeck's second operation was undertaken for a tumour |pnngmg from behind the superior maxillary bone in the pterygo-maxillary fossa. Two incisions were made : the first began at the insertion of the ala nasi and ran along the lower border of the malar bone, describing an arch Mth the convexity downwards and terminating at the middle of the zygoma • lie second began at the nasal notch of the frontal bone, and, followin<r the ower margin of the orbit, crossed the frontal process of the superior maxniary oone, and joined the lower incision at its outer extremity. The soft parts ^;ere not dissected up. The lower incision was then carried to the bone and he masscter dissected from its attachment to the malar bone. By depressin-' uie lower jaw so as to remove the coronoid process out of the way, the finge^