HYDRONEPHROSIS AND PYONEPHROSIS. 1017 HYDRONEPHROSIS AND PYONEPHROSIS. Hydronephrosis consists in the distension of the kidney with its secretion, more or less altered in character. The early stages have already been described as the result of increased urinary tension (p. 1006, et seq.) ; only in exceptional cases does the dilatation continue to increase till a large tumour is formed. The essential element in the causation of advanced hvdronephrosis is an incomplete obstruction of the ureter; when the obstruction is complete, atrophy of the kidney occurs before much dilatation has taken place. Hydronephrosis may be due to congenital malformations of the ureter, and may be present at birth. The most frequent cause of the atfection is pressure on the ureter by malignant disease in the pelvis, especially carcinoma of the uterus, whilst from a surgical point of view the most interesting cause is impaction of a calculus in the ureter. Hydronephrosis s an occasional result of movable kidney has been mentioned at p. 1014, and the traumatic form has been considered in Vol. I., p. 874. The symptoms are those of a renal tumour, fluctuating distinctly, and accompanied by little pain and no hgematuria. Whatever the cause may be the tumour is apt to vary in size, and occasional complete disappearance of the swelling may 1)6 accompanied by an abundant flow of urine of low specific gravity. The diagnosis may be confirmed by aspiration and examination of the fluid withdrawn, which wiU be found to contain urea and uric acid. Treatment.—AsY)ivsition. has occasionally been followed by a cure, but usually only after it has been several times repeated. The spot selected for aspiration must vary with the case, but care should be taken to avoid any risk of puncturing either the colon or the peritoneum. In all enlargements of the Iddney these are carried forwards. If, therefore, the normal line of the colon —that is to say, a line drawn vertically upwards from midway between the anterior and posterior superior iliac spines—be taken, the needle is certain to pass behind the gut if there be any distinct enlargement of the kidney. If any part of the tumour be particularly prominent this may be punctured, but if it be in front of the line just mentioned a careful search for the colon by [)alpation and percussion should be made. Aspiration, if carefully performed with a clean instrument, is perfectly free from danger. If aspiration fails, nephrotomy with drainage should be performed, but is frequently followed by an incurable renal fistula. Nephrectomy by the abdominal incision has been practised successfully, but probably the best treatment is antiseptic drainage and subsequent lumbar nephrectomy. Fyonephrosis may result from suppuration occurring in a kidney already 'listended in any of the ways above mentioned. It most commonly occurs as a late stage of calculous or tuberculous pyelitis. Pyonephrosis is an occa- sional sequel of gonorrhoea. In a case of this kind in University College Hospital the patient was completely cured by two aspirations, nearly a pint of pus being removed on each occasion. He died some years afterwards, and the k idney was found reduced to a mere shrivelled mass of fibrous tissue. Treatment.—Aspiration is of service rather as a means of diagnosis than of treatment, but has occasionally been followed by cure. Nephrotomy with drainage should be tried, and if this fails, lumbar nephrectomy may be practised in suitable cases. In opening a pyonephrosis of doubtful cause a careful search must be made for calculi in the dilated kidney and in the upper end of the ureter.