546 DEFORMITIES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. as being that in which there is least tension exercised on the structures th enter into the joint. This position, which is immediately assumed on t occurrence of acute and active inflammation in the joint, comes on mor gradually in cases of subacute inflammation ; and liere the symptoms o disease in the joint may be so slight that the contraction may be consider the chief ailment, and engross the Surgeon's attention too exclusively. The inalment of this variety of contraction consists in the treatment of th inflammatory condition of which it is the result. It is of the utmost im portance that an inflamed knee should not be allowed to remain in position of flexion, or the condition will readily pass into one of chroni contraction. Hysterical Contraction is usually associated with other manifestations o hysteria, of which it is but a local symptom, and commonly occurs in gir' and young women. In this form of contraction there is no evidence o disease within the joint; no redness, swelling, or other sign of inflam mation ; but there is great pain and tenderness about it. This pain, usual in hysterical cases, is superficial and cutaneous. It is not confined the articulation, but radiates to some distance beyond it. Any attempt straightening the limb not only greatly increases the pain, but also calls the adjoining muscles into such forcible action that it is impossible to improve the position. These local symptoms are connected with the ordinary signs of a hysterical temperament, with spinal irritation, and often with uteriue derangement. The treatment of these cases of hysterical contraction of the knee is simple. The first thing to be done is to straighten the limb. This can be effected only by putting the patient under the influence of an angesthetic, when, all sensibility being suspended, the muscular opposition, which is partly voluntary, and do doubt in some measure reflex, is no longer called into action, and the limb falls of its own accord almost into the straight position, in which it must be retained by means of a back splint, lest the retraction recui- with returning consciousness ; and then, the hysterical condition being removed by treatment directed to the improvement of the general health, the tendency to the return of the deformity will be obviated. In some long-standing cases of hysterical contraction the deformity is not altogether reheved by relaxing the muscles with an ansesthetic. This results from the gradual shortening of the hamstring and of the fibrous structm-es about the back of the joint caused by the persistent flexion. Under these circumstances division of the tense hamstring tendons may be neces- sary (p. 548). Chronic Contraction.—Under this heading are included those important cases in which the knee is permanently flexed and otherwise displaced as the result of structural changes in and around the joint. In severe cases the patient cannot put the foot to the ground, and the limb becomes useless for the purpose of progression. But a leg with a badly contracted knee is worse than useless—it is a positive incumbrance ; the limb projects behind in a most awkward manner, swaying as the body moves round, constantly in the way and liable to injury. From want of use, the nutrition of the Hmb becomes impaired, the foot is cold, the circulation in it is- languid, and the toes become liable to chilblains and troublesome ulceration. In the less severe forms of contracted knee, the inconvenience, though not so great as that just