URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. I032 constitutional causes. The phosphatic laminaj, whether interposed between the uric acid or encrusting the calculus, are dependent on vesical irritatiou and decomposition of the urine, consequent on the presence in the bladder of the uric acid or oxalate of lime nucleus which has previously been formed. Origin.—Calculi may be formed either in the kidneys or in the bladder. Those that contain nuclei of the urates or oxalates are probably renal in their origin ; whilst those that have a phosphatic nucleus are usually vesical, renal nuclei of this composition being rarely met with. All renal calculi, all those vesical calculi that have a renal origin, and some of those even that appear to be formed primarily in the bladder, have a con- stitutional source ; they arise from a morbid state of the urine, which in its turn probably depends upon mal-assimilation, the particular form of which determines the chemical composition of the stone. Those calculi that are formed by deposit from the urine upon and around some foreign body, as a pin or straw accidentally introduced into the bladder, and some soft phosphatic concretions that appear to be the result of an unhealthy state of its mucous membrane, may be looked upon as being local in their origin. The symptoms arising from a stone in the kidney and during its passage to the bladder have already been described (p. 1007). Though a vesica ther. Pig. 845.—Calculi with Facets. calculus often owes its origin to the descent of a stone from the kidney, yet frequently there is no evidence of its coming from such a source, but every appearance of its being deposited in the bladder ; a nucleus being originally formed in the viscus by the aggregation of some sabulous matters, upon whict' fresh deposits take place, until a true calculus is formed. In some instances, vesical calcuh have been found deposited upon and encrusting foreign bodies, accidentally introduced into the bladder, such as a piece of straw, a pin, bit of bougie, fragment of bone, &c. NumTjer.—The number of calculi in the bladder varies considerably : most commonly only one is encountered ; but in about one-fifth or one-sixth of the cases operated upon several will be found ; from two to six or eight are by no means uncommonly met with. Occasionally, several dozens have been de- tected ; and there are instances on record in which even some hundreds of distinct and separate calcuH have been found in one bladder. The most re- markable case of this kind is one in which Physick removed from a J udge m the United States upwards of a thousand calculi, varing in size from a partridge-shot to a bean, and each marked with a black spot. Several calculi may become matted together in one large concretion, as in the annexed repre- sentation of a calculus (Fig. 844) which I removed from a child four years old ; it was formed of eleven distinct uric acid calculi soldered together in