EXCISION OF THE SCAPULA. incision, and the body of the bone sawn through transversely below its neck and spine. A sarcoma of the inferior angle of the scapula,, which was removed in this way by Marcus Beck, is preserved in the Museum of University College ; the growth involves the origin of the teres major. In such cases the haemorr- hage need not be very great, as the main trunk of the subscapular artery, or even the dorsal artery of the scapula, is not necessarily divided. If the tumour spring from and be comiected with the spine and acromion, only projecting forwards over the shoulder and leaving the rest of the bone sound and the joint unaffected, it may be freely exposed, the spine of the scapula sawn or cut across with bone-forceps, and the mass turned off from the point of the shoulder, without injury to the articulation or the implication of vessels of any importance. When the tumour occupies the upper half of the scapula, the case is much more formidable, and the line of practice to be adopted must depend upon the parts involved. If the disease involve the body of the bone, encroaching upon the supra- or infra-spinous fossa, extending forwards into the axilla below the neck of the scapula, and thus coming into relation with the subscapular artery, it would be wiser to remove the whole bone, than to attempt the resec- tion of the upper half, leaving only the lower angle, which would be useless to the patient. When the body of the scapula is involved in a morbid growth, extending over the greater part or the whole of the subscapular or infraspinous region, and stretching forwards under the latissimus dorsi muscle into the axilla, the case bi comes infinitely more serious, as not only must the whole of the scapula be removed, but the subscapular artery must be divided, and the axillary nerves and vessels brought into the field of operation. In these cases, also, the question as to the preservation or removal of the arm has to be considered. Whenever the joint is sound, and the upper part of the limb free from disease, it should be preserved ; and, as these conditions usually exist where the disease originates in the scapula, the contemporaneous or antecedent amputation of the arm is seldom required. Operation.—Excision of the scapula may be performed by exposing the bone freely by V-shaped, T-shaped or crucial incisions. The method most commonly adopted has been by the T-shaped incision. A long incision is made extending from the acromial end of the clavicle downwards along the axillary herder of the scapula to the lower angle ; from the middle or upper third of this a second incision is ca ried at right angles reaching to the posterior border of the bone, near the root of the spine. The flaps thus formed are dissected up and turned back, the trapezius being raised in the upper flap if it is not implicated in the tumour. The acromio-clavicular articulation, the outer end of the clavicle, or the base of the acromion is then cut through according to the extent of the disease. By feeling for the notch in the upper border of the scapula the situation of the suprascapular artery can be ascertained, and unless it is overlapped by the tumour it may at once be tied and divided. The posterior scapular may be now sought for by carefully dividing the levator angnli scapula, beneath which the main trunk will be found, and may be secured. An assistant can then force his finger forwards in the upper and outer angle of the wound, and compress the subclavian artery against the first nb. The muscles attached to the posterior border may then be divided the serratus magnus being cut as close as possible to its insertion, and the hand