OPEHATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE. 748 iiicision in tl.c windpipe in consequence of which one of them is apt to doubled in under the end of the instrument. This mav be avoidll v ducng the sharp hook in the manner described abo^x"" byt e ' fl^S bivalve tube introduced closed (Fig. 7G7), and then expanded W s pn ' cannula into It (F.g. 708). If the rings of the trachea b v ry g d Ll nyielding, the silver tube m.y most conveniently be introduced by c^p nd ^ he incision by means of the tracliea-dilator (Fig. 70!)), and then paS^ between or under their blades. ^ Trachea-tubes should be of such a calibre throughout as to admit of respirat.on being carried on through them, without an/effort on the r a t o he patient. Many of those that are to be met with in the instrumen -ma W shops, though very wide at the mouth, are far too narrow and contracted at the bwer aperture to allow a free and unimpeded passage for the air o respiration, being made very conical in order to admit of easy introduction Fig. T67. —Bivalve Tube closed. Fig. 708.—Bivalve Tube with Cannula introduced. Fig. 709.—Trachea-dilator. and to occlude the opening in the windpipe completely, so as to prevent the entry of any blood by the side of the tube. It is most important after the operation to keep the tube from being clogged by mucus. The frothy mucus whicli the patient constantly brings up after the operation is easily removed by wiping it away with a sponge during the expiratory efforts of coughing, and by the occasional introduction of a feather moistened with a solution of carbonate of soda. It will be found, however, that after a few hours the lumen of the tube becomes narrowed by an adherent layer of dried mucus on which the feather makes no impression. This accumulates in the largest quantity at the inferior aperture and at the curve of the tube, and may seriously block up its calibre while the external opening appears quite free. Obre devised a very simple means to remedy this incon- venience. It consists in the trachea-tube being made of uniform calibre throughout, and having an interior tube accurately fitted to it, and projecting about one-eighth of an inch beyond the lower extremity of the outer tube. It is in the projection of the internal tube beyond the lower end of the external one that the great utility of this contrivance consists. If the two tubes be of the same length, or still more, if the innermost tube be the shorter, a plug of mucus may be left at the end of the outer cannula, on the withdrawal of the 11