1 TRACHEOTOMY. 743 „,,. .*i.»5 .'1. ■».•■■■-''■ fcti',-2 ,he inferior thyroid plexus of veins, t° rar3 cases an in size, Decome i„ .^„pheotomY wound. The carotid arteries also are greatly increased when the veins of the neck have become turgid in conse- quence of the laryngeal obstruction. It will be seen also that the trachea is less covered, and may consequently be much more readily reaobed above, than below, the isthmus of the thyroid gland. Though some Surgeons, as Velpeau, for instance, have recom- mended the opening to be made in the lower part of -, , i • vi i- n.o the tube in all cases, no advantage whatever is gained by so doing, whilst tlie diificulties of the operation are very seriously increased ; and m practice it is almost invariably opened at its upper part, usually through the hrst ana second rings. i r v,*. x,-. The patient should, if possible, be placed on a table in a good light, in operating on an adult, it will be found sufficient in most cases to support the patient's shoulders with pillows, while the head is thrown as much back as practicable. In children, a small firm pillow must be placed under the neck so as to throw the trachea as much forwards as possible. A stocking stuffed tightly with towels will usually be found to answer the purpose admirably. An assistant should be seated above the head of the patient; it is his duty to hold the head steady with his wrists, while with a blunt hook in each hand he draws the wound open during the operation. At the same time he must keep the chin exactly in the middle line to serve as a guide to the Surgeon. The hooks must never be entrusted to two assistants, as they would certainly displace the wound from the middle line. If another assistant is present, he may administer the chloroform and sponge the wound. The Surgeon stands to the right side of the patient. During the operation every vessel that bleeds must immediately be seized in forcipressure forceps, which Fig. 703.—Operation ot Tracheotomy. i