TREATMENT OF ANEURISM BY COMPRESSION. 135 arfcery should be arrested ; that inflammation of the vessel at the point com- pressed should be set up ; and that the consolidation of the aneurism depended upon the obstruction of the vessel consequent upon this inflammation, ihis led to the employment of such forcible compression, with the view,of exciting inflammation in the artery, that the patient could seldom bear it for a sutticient length of time to effect a cure ; sloughing of the skin commonly resulted from the^severity of the pressure to which it was subjected. The Dublin Surgeons however pointed out the error of this doctrine, and laid down as the principle of the practice, that, in the majority of cases, the cure is brought about when the artery is compressed, in pi-ecisely the same way as when it occurs spon- taneously, or when the Hunterian operation is performed—viz., by the deposit of stratified fibrin, and by the consequent consolidation of the aneurism (Fig. 45'.)), aided by the contraction of the walls of the sac. It was furthei shown that, as in the case ol" hgature of the vessel, it was not necessary that the whole of the circulation through the aneurism should be permanently arrested, but merely that it should be lessened to such an extent as to induce the deposit of laminated fibrin in the sac, and that, if the pressure were properly conducted, the artery was in no way injured or occluded at the part compressed. The recognition of the true principles on which compression of the artery leading to the sac cures the aneurism has led to important results ; for as the severe pressure that was formerly considered necessary is now known not only to be unnecessary, but to be absolutely injurious, no amount of compression is exer- cised beyond what is requisite to moderate the flow of blood into the sac ; no attempt being made to compress the artery so severely as to lead to its obliteration by inflam- mation. But, although, where the pressure is moderate or the anastomosing circulation free, the consolidation of the con- tents of the sac takes place in the way that has just been described, it would be an error to suppose that this is the process by which the aneurism becomes cured in all cases in which recourse is had to compression. There can be no doubt that in some cases, in which consolidation has taken place in a few hours after the employment of pressure, coagulation of the contents of the sac has suddenly occurred ; and this sudden coagulation, which at one time was dreaded by Surgeons, has been found by increased experience to be in the highest degree advantageous, as leading to a more rapid cure. In the tubular form of aneurism, which is far less frequent than the saccu- lated in the extremities, the cure appears to take place, if it occurs at all, rather by the gradual contraction of the partially emptied sac than either by the slow deposit of laminated fibrin, or by the rapid and almost sudden coagulation of its contents. The sac gradually shrinks, and shreds of fibrin only are found adherent to its sides. But although I believe that the condition of the aneurism, whether sacculated or tubular, has a considerable influence upon the mode in which compression acts in effecting a cure, and also upon the time that is occupied in the treatment, this being much shorter in the sacculated than in the tubular ibrm of the disease ; yet there can be no doubt that this Fig. 450.—Sac of Aneurism cured by Compression : De- posit of Laminated Fibrin.