I200 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. and along this a female catheter, or an instrument of that shape fitted with rings by which it can be securely tied in, is guided into the bladder. The essential points of the operation are to keep accurately to the middle line and to open the urethra as it emerges from the prostate gland. Should the pro- state itself be notched no harm will result. The instrument having been passed as above described is tied in and retained for some days or weeks as may be required. In a very large proportion of cases after the irritation of the pnssage of urine through the narrow stricture has been removed, a certain degree of relaxation will take place, and a few days after the operation it frequently happens that a catheter will pass through the stricture which was formerly " impermeable." If this does not take place, an effort may subsequently be made by some further operative procedure to open up a way in the natural line of the urethra, and should this fail the patient may pass his urine per- manently through the fistulous opening in the perineum. This can readily be kept open by the occasional passage of a flexible bougie, which must be left in situ for a few hours. Cock records cases in which the patient passed his water in this way for twenty years or more. The opening being well in front of the prostate the control over the escape of urine is perfect, and the patient's mode of micturition is assimilated to that of the other sex. This operation is best adapted to those cases in which the patient is suffering from actual retention at the time the Surgeon is called upon to operate. The objection to it is that it does nothing to relieve the stricture unless this should happen to yield after the irritation of the passage of urine is cut off. 2. Opening the Urethra behind the Stricture and catting forwards. This operation may be regarded as an extension of the preceding method. It is thus performed : A No. 8 silver catheter is passed down to the stricture; the patient is then tied up as if for lithotomy; and the Surgeon, sitting in front, pushes a bistoury with the back turned towards the rectum into the raphe of the peringeum as far as the apex of the prostate, so as, if possible, to open the dilated urethra behind the stricture. He then cnts forwards through the stricture on to the point of the catheter, and, having thus opened a passage, endeavours to pass that instrument on into the bladder. This operation, I have no hesitation in saying, is one of the most troublesome in surgery, and I have more than once seen the most skilful operators foiled in their endeavours to accomplish it. The difficulty consists in finding the posterior part of the urethra. When the tissues of the perina;um are hard and gristly from repeated attacks of inflammation and the presence of fistula, it is a most difficult matter to dissect through such an altered mass and hit the urethra beyond it, and the difliculty is still further increased by the bleeding, which is often very profuse. Moreover, should the Surgeon find the posterior part of the urethra and cut forwards from it to the catheter in the urethra the chances are that his incision will not foUow the line of the urethra, and the fistulous track he establishes between the part of the urethra, in front of the stricture and that behind it, will almost to a certainty contract, as the wound heals, to such an extent as to leave the patient little better for the operation. 3 Opening the Urethra in Front of the Stricture and dividing from behind backwards.—This operation, though difficult of performance in some cases, gives better results than any other. Wheelhouse has invented some ino-enious instruments which greatly facilitate its performance. The cooperation is thus performed : The patient having been secured ui the