Ill SYMPTOMS OF ANEURISM. as a pvoof that it is not au aneurism. The sound is usually best heard in aneurisms that are not too fully distended with blood ; indeed, it is usually most distinct when the sac is partially emptied. Thus, for instance, it not un-; IVequently happens that, in an aneurism of the ham or thigh, no bruit, or but a very faint one, is audible so long as the patient is standing ; but if he lie down, and elevate the limb so as partly to empty the sac, then it may be heard distinctly. Many of the symptoms that have just been described are peculiar to, and their combination is characteristic of, aneurism, being dependent on the com- munication that exists between the artery and the sac. Those that result from the pressure of the sac upon neighbouring parts are common to aneurism and to any other kind of tumour ; but, though not of so special a character as those that have just been described, they are of considerable importance in determining the nature of the disease when taken in conjunction with the other symptoms. Symptoms of Dijffused Aneurism.—When a sacculated circumscribed aneurism becomes diffused, the sac having given way, but the blood being still bounded by the tissues of the limb, the patient experiences a sudden intense throbbing pain in the part, and usually becomes pale, cold, and faint. On examination, it will be found that the tumour has suddenly and greatly in- creased in size, at the same time that it has lost its circumscribed outline. The pulsation and bruit become materially diminished in force and in distinct- ness, and may disappear altogether. The limb may also become oedematouF, or may suffer in other ways from the diffused effects of the pressure of the aneurisraal swelling upon the neighbouring veins and tissues. At the same time, the circulation in it being greatly obstructed, the limb may become cold and hvid, and a sensation of weight and general inutility will be experienced in it. In these circumstances the aneurismal swelling usually becomes harder, in consequence of the coagulation of the blood in the areolar tissue around the sac ; by which indeed the further extension of the disease is arrested, and a fresh boundary is often formed, so as to limit the extravasated blood. If it be left to itself, the tumour will now usually increase rapidly in size, sometimes Avithout, sometimes with much pulsation, so that at last it may so obstruct the circulation through the limb as to occasion gangrene. The tension caused by the rapid increase of the tumour excites more or less acute inflammation in the surrounding structures. As it advances towards the surface, the skin covering it becomes thinned and reddened, the tumour becomes soft and semi- fluctuating, owing to the coagulum breaking down, and eventually external rupture will ensue. In some cases it happens that, when rupture of the sac takes place, the effused blood, instead of being limited by the surrounding areolar tissue, be- comes suddenly and widely extravasated into the substance of the limb. When this untoward accident happens, the shock and local disturbance are very great, and the patient is suddenly seized with very severe lancinating and numbino' pam in the part. The pain is most severe in those cases in which the rupture takes place under the deep fasciae, by which the effused blood is tightly bound down ; and it may be so intense as to occasion syncope. In other instances faintness occurs from the sudden escape of blood from the current of the cir- cuktion into the substance of the part, being most marked in those cases in which the blood is suddenly and largely effused into the areolar tissue If the