DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. 688 tion of suiToundino- parts, nor inusfc he waste time in trying the effect of treatment by merciuy or iodide of potassium. By so doing he may rob his patient ot his only chance of cure. A portion of the ulcer should at once be removed by means of a sharp spoon or a pair of scissors, and submitted to microscopic examination. This may be done painlessly by applyi„e a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine for a few minutes. If there should still be any doubt, the ulcer should be cut out, for the removal of a small and superficial portion of the tongue is a most simple operation, and practicallv free from danger. Treatment.—In the treatment of cancer of the tongue, medicines are ntterly useless, except as palliatives of pain. No measures hold out any chance of cure, or even of prolongation of life, except the complete removal of the diseased structures, and this it is not always easy to accomplish, as the cancerous infiltration often extends much farther than at first appears, passing deeply between the muscular fasciculi and planes into the root of the tongue! In these, deep cancerous affections there is usually great enlargement of the glands under the jaw, with infiltration of the floor of the mouth and neigh- bouring soft parts to such an extent as to render it impossible to excise or in any other way remove the whole of the disease. Two operations are occasionally practised, having for their object to palliate the suffering or to retard the progress of the disease in advanced cases : viz.. Division of the Lingual Nerve, and Ligature of the Lingual Artery. Division of the Lingual Nerve.—Section of the gustatory branch of the fifth nerve was first proposed by Hilton, with the view of relieving the pain of the cancer, retarding its progress, lessening the profuse saHvation, and enabling the Surgeon to apply ligatures painlessly for the removal of the growth. This operation undoubtedly accomplished the objects for which Hilton originally practised it; more especially so far as relief of pain and diminution of salivation are concerned ; and it may be considered one of ihe most efficient modes of relief in cases in which removal of the disease is not practicable. Division of the gustatory nerve may be done in two ways. In both operations the nerve is divided in that part of its course which extends froui its emergence between the internal pterygoid muscle and the jaw to the point where it enters the tongue. Opposite to the second molar tooth, the nerve lies under the mucous membrane of the fioor of the mouth. There it can easily be reached by the division of the mucous membrane covering it, when it will be found close behind the sublingual gland. It may be raised by a blunt hook, seen, and divided. The advantage of this method is, that the nerve can be seen and its division rendered certain. The disadvantages are, that the guides to the spot are not quite certain ; that the cut is apt to be obscured by hgemorrhage ; and that, when the disease ha,s extended to the floor of the mouth, the operation is inapplicable. Moore consequently recommended section of the nerve further back. The guide to it in this situation is the last molar tooth ; and a line drawn from the middle of the crown of the tooth to the angle of the jaw will cross the nerve in the exact place where it should be cut. The nerve lies about half an inch from the tooth, between it and the anterior pillar of the fauces, parallel to but behind and below the bulging alveolar ridge, which can be felt in the lower jaw ascending towards the thm