MALIGNANT DISEASE OF THE LARYNX. 735 much more malignant, growing rapidly and often causing early glandular enlargement. All malignant growths in this region tend to assume a papillary form (Fig. 7G1), though they are rarely polypoid. They are most commonly single. The symptoms they give rise to are those of interference with speech ;ind respiration, with some cough and expectoration, often mixed with blood. The situation of the tumour and its size are usually determined without difficulty by the laryngoscope, but it is not easy in many cases to determine the nature of the growth. For this purpose a piece of the growth can sometimes be re- moved with the laryngeal forceps, and submitted to microscopic examination. If the fragment so i-emoved presents undoubted evidence of cancer, the diagnosis is made, but if not, great doubt will still exist as to the nature of the disease, for it not uncommonly happens that a malignant growth in this region is surrounded by a warty fringe present- Fig. rei.—Epithelioma iu ing the structure of a simple papilloma. Death, in cancer of the larynx, is inevitable, either by asphyxia or by constitutional infection, if the disease be left to run its course. Treatment.—Until a comparatively recent period the Surgeon had no other means of prolonging life in cases of malignant disease of the larynx thati by performing tracheotomy. During recent years, however, operation has been undertaken in a large number of cases, with the object of removing the diseased tissues from the larynx or of excising, partially or completely, the larynx itself. Eemoval of the growth can be of advantage to the patient only in well selected cases in which the diagnosis has been made early. When the disease is extrinsic and is invading the epiglottis and possibly the rooc of the tongue, or when, having originally been intrinsic, it has spread beyond the limits of the larynx, no good can be expected from the operation. Even if the patient survive, recurrence will certainly take place, and it is probable that life would be equally prolonged and gi'eater comfort secured by the simple operation of tracheotomy. Butlin urges " that the smallest operation consistent with the widest excision of the disease, and the removal of a wide area of the surrounding tissues, should be adopted." The intralaryngeal method of removal has been per- formed in certain cases of malignant disease ; but this can very seldom be practicable. Operation.—As a general rule it may be stated that the first steps in any operation undertaken for malignant disease of the larynx should consist in the performance of a preliminary tracheotomy and an exploratory thyrotomy. Hahn and many other Surgeons prefer to perform the tracheotomy some days before the operation for removal of the growth is undertaken, especially if the patient is exhausted by previous dyspnoea or from imperfect nutrition. At the time of the operation the trachea may be plugged with Trendelenburg's tube (Fig. 695) or with Halm's cannula, the outer tube of which is sur- rounded by compressed sponge, which rapidly swells and completely plugs the air tube. The tracheotomy wound is then prolonged upwards to the body of the hyoid bone, and, all bleeding having been arrested, the thyroid cartilage