284 INFLAMMATION OF HONE AND ITS EFFECTS. are more likely to bo found near the circumference where they have not yet been concealed by the further inflammatory changes around them. Caries necrotica presents tlie same appearances, with the addition of fragments of dead bone, mixed with the degenerating inflammatory products. If these are decomposing they will be black or grey in colour; if not, they are white. If the process have been very chronic, small patches of opaque white bone may be found, in which calcification has taken place in the inflammatory products filling the cancelli. Treatment.—The constitutional treatment of cases of tuberculous bone disease is often of the first importance. In many cases, especially in young subjects, perfect rest of the diseased part, combined with means calculated to improve the general health, will be sufficient to effect a cure. Hence it is well not to be in too great a hurry to interfere, by operative means, especially in the case of the small bones of children. I have often seen cases, especially of caries of the bones of the hands and feet, in which an operation for the removal of the diseased bone was apparently in- dispensable, recover spontaneously on change of air and attention to the general health of the child ; the disintegrated particles of the diseased bone being eliminated piecemeal. In the earlier stages of caries, should there be any acute inflammatory symptoms, measures should be taken, by means of appropriate local and con- stitutional antiphlogisties, to subdue the activity and limit the extension of the disease ; and when this has fallen into a chronic state, constitutional alteratives should be employed. Amongst these, cod-liver oil, the iodides, and change of air, more especially to the sea-side when the patient is young, should hold the first place. Counter-irritation is of httle avail in these cases in arresting the progress of the disease. By means of bhsters or iodine, thickening of the periosteum and of the soft structures covering the diseased patch of bone may be lessened, and pain subdued ; but the real progress of the osseous disease cannot, I think, be influenced by such means when once it has passed the earliest stage. In the majority of cases, however, operative interference sooner or later becomes necessary, and should in no case be delayed when definite signs of a chronic abscess are present. Earlier than this it may often be necessary to explore the bone when there is marked painful enlargement which is not relieved by other treatment. Operations.—In all cases the part should, if possible, be rendered bloodless by Esmarch's method, as the operator will then be able to see what he is doing, instead of working in a deep hole filled with blood. In the case of a tuber- culous abscess under the periosteum, a free incision should be made and the pus and granulation tissue cleanly removed with a sharp spoon. The surface of the bone is often carious and will require scraping. The superficial wound may be closed with sutures or left freely open and a lasting gauze and wool dressing applied. In tuberculous osteomyelitis good results will often follow a thorough scraping away of the diseased medulla ; in some cases, however excision of the affected bone or amputation will be required. In the treatment of tuberculous disease of cancehous bone the operations practised are of four kinds: Removal of the Diseased Portion of Bone ; Excision of the Carious Articular End ; Resection of the whole of the Bone affected ; or Amputation of the Whole Limb.