974 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS •fistula, especially in tuberculous cases, should be scraped away with a «i ■^^ncTr f-^^ ^ «po".e moist^.ed:;;s^::^ t£z •of nc Cur. 40 to ,0 care bemg taken that this does not touch the hea tt - km of the anus Jodoforni should then be freely applied to the raw suS and a narrow str.p of bono lint inserted, after the intriduction of a halH ah •morphia suppository. A pad of wool is then put on and a J-bandaoe apn ij This dressing may be left unchanged for three days. The wool can th^ it removed without difficulty or fear of bleeding. The bowels should be ke oonhned for three or four days by small doses of opium. After the fir dressing the wound may be dusted daily with iodoform and a fresh piece o hn appl.ed to it. It should be well washed at each dressing with a concen •trated solution of boric acid or some other antiseptic. If there is any swellinsr and pain, lint soaked in a warm solution of boric acid may be applied ^xternallv and covered with oiled silk. Care must be taken to prevent the bridging over of granulations, if necessary by the occasional introduction of a probe If the wound is slow m healing, red wash must be applied. After the wound has -completely united, a notch will usually be left bv the side of the anus whir-h may give rise to some inconvenience for a time by the occasional involuntary discharge of a little intestinal mucus, and some flatus. This happens especially m those cases in which the incision has been made anteriorly to the anus into -the perineum. Should an inconvenient or dangerous amount of htemorrhacre ■occur at the time of the operation, the wound should be plugged with iodoform ■wool, and a firm pad applied by means of a J-bandage. Should profuse bleeding, in consequence of the division of some of the hsemorrhoidal vessels, •come on a few hours after the operation, all coagula should be cleared away| the gut washed out with ice-cold water, and then securely plugged either with :a piece of compressed sponge, or with a lithotomy or oesophagus tube, surrounded by lint soaked in a solution of perchloride of iron, and pushed into the bottom ■ of the sinuses that have been laid open. H^MOEEHOIDS R PILES. By Haemorrhoids or Piles is meant a morbid condition of the blood- vessels of the anus and lower part of the rectum, especially of the veins of the submucous or subcutaneous areolar tissue, giving rise to greater or less intumescence of the part, w^hich may or may not be attended with a discharge of blood. Surgeons are commonly in the habit of classifying piles, according •as they bleed or not, into Open or Blind; or, according as they spring from •above or below the verge of the anus, into Internal or External; the internal ■being always within the gut, the external habitually protruding out of or around the anal aperture. The first may either bleed or not; the latter are always blind. To this division into external and internal, B. Cooper added an inter- mediate variety, the Intero-External, which is partly within and partly without the anus. These divisions are of great practical importance, as the treatment is very materially modified according as the haemorrhoid is situated above or below the anal verge. Predisposing Causes.—"We must look to the peculiar arrangemmi of the veins of the rectum as directly predisposing to the occurrence of piles. The lower part of the rectum and the margin of the anus are composed of a plane -of muscular fibre and a muco-cutaneous surface, with an intervening stratum