996 SECONDAIiY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. iwthT'''.^"^ M ""f"'' "^"'^^'^ ^'"fl^^^^ '^"d filled wit), foul m e, while in tlie other ,t was free from disease, and the urine it contained la ged. 1 he fa surroundnio- ,t ,s usually abnormally adherent to the capsul cl ar v on th^ ! opaque, and marked by ramiform vessels, showing cleaily on the surface. It separates easily, but in so doing tears the kidney anc^. Ihc chief tint is tlie same as in the diffuse form just described, and ig m fact, due to the existence of the same condition ; but scattered here and there, usually in groups, are bright yellow spots, surrounded by a dark red areola, and varying in size from a pin's head to a split pea (Pig. 833) On cutting into these yellow spots, each is found to contain a drop of pus These minute abscesses are usually grouped in areas corresponding to that part of he cortex which belongs to a single pyramid. If now a section be made of the fadney the points of suppuration will not be found to be limited to the surface. Often they are continued down towards a pyramid, and are con- Fig. 831.—Acute Interstitial Nephritis : Scattered Absces.ses. Murgiu of Abscess to the ri-'ht Malpighiau body in the middle. Comparatively healtliy tubules with intertubular ° cell-inflltration, to the left. nected with a yellow streak running parallel to the straight tubules as far as the papilla, or, if that have been partly destroyed by pressure, as far as the point at. which the tubules open into the pelvis. This condition is not. invariable, as sometimes the abscesses are perfectly isolated, and show no con- nexion whatever with the pyramidal portion of the kidney. Occasionally one or more of the abscesses may burst beneath the capsule, separating it from the kidney, and, giving rise to further suppuration, may include the whole organ in a large collection of pus. This form of kidney, which is perhaps that most frequently met with in the fosi-morlem room, is often conjoined with the signs of pressure, absorption of the pyramids, and dilatation of the pelvis. The microscope shows that in this form the appearances are essentially the same as in the last; the chief change being the accumulation of crowds of small round cells in the intertubular substance, the degree of cell-infiltration varying in almost every field of the microscope. At the point at which an abscess is forming, or at the margin of one already formed, the crowds of small round cells are seen to press upon the tubules, separating them widely, and gqueczing their walls together (Fig. 831). Then the wall becomes indistinct; next only a few epithehum-cells can be recognized in the crowd of leucocytes; lastly, nothing but leucocytes can be seen, and a little nearer the centre the