13 TREATMENT OF RODENT ULCER. tissue stroma. The epithelial cells show generally no tendency to become squamous or to form globes. Moore, Hulke and Warren have, however, observed that under certain conditions, especially when invading the diploe of the bones of the skull, the cells may become grouped in imperfect globes, but these never have the hard corneous centre so commonly observed in true squamous carcinoma. The cell-masses are usually larger than those of squamous carcinoma (Fig. 419) ; the cells are mostly small and rounded or angular in shape, except the outermost cells of a cell-mass, which are often somewhat elongated (Fig. 420). The stroma is always infiltrated with small round cells, sometimes to such an extent as to resemble ordinary granulation tissue. In other cases numerous spindle-shaped or oat-shaped cells may be present. The growth is therefore properly classed with the carcinomata, being- composed of cells of an epi- thelial type advancing in pro- cesses or columns, in spaces formed by a vascular stroma. It infiltrates and destroys the orio'inal tissues of the aifected part, and by degenerating and disintegrating produces a slowly advancing loss of sub- stance. It infects adjoining parts, so that when removed by an incision carried through apparently healthy skin, a re- currence of the disease may follow. On these grounds Moore sugg-ested for it the ^iililVOV'^lKv^^v"*—^ -^ name of Rodent Cancer. '>i^!^^fvi:^^C^^^^?i^^^ It dilfers from other cancerous growths in infecting merely by continuity of tissue, never -P'S- 420.—Rodent Ulcer. a cnll-mass more highly niaguified 1 ,1 1 1 -Li 1 (1S8 diams.). The individual epithelium cells are small Dy tne lympliatlCS or blood and the peripheral cells tend to assume an elongated stream, thus presenting a lower degree of malignancy than any other variety of carcinoma. Considerable dilBPerence of opinion still exists as to the point of origin of the growth. That it does not spring from the superficial epithelium is almost certain, as the cells show little or no tendency to assume the squamous form. Thin is of opinion that it arises from the spheroidal epithelium of the sweat-glands, Thiersch and Butlin from the sebaceous glands, while Fox believes it springs from the outer root-sheath of the hair-follicles. Treatment.—In the treatment, constitutional remedies are of no use, and local means alone are to be relied on. These consist: 1, in excision of the diseased part; 2, in the application of caustics ; 3, in a combination of these two methods. 1. Excision of the whole ulcer with a wide margin of apparently healthy skin is by far the best treatment whenever it is practicable, especially when the sore has not attained too great a size, and when it is situated on the cheek eyehd, or forehead. The gap left may be filled in by one of the plastic