STRUCTURE OF TUBERCULOUS TESTIS. 1255 mrent growing margin. Still nearer the mediastinum these yellow spots c oalesce, and form a solid cheesy substance, continuous with a still larger mass of the same kind, which represents the epididymis, and half surrounds the body of the gland in the shape of a crescent. In this larger mass patches softening are found, forming the tuberculous abscesses above described, and these may extend into the body of the gland. On making transverse sections of the vas deferens, its walls will be seen to be thickened, and its centre hi led up with a yellow cheesy material. If the disease be further advanced, the whole gland may be converted into a single cheesy mass, in which softening may be taking place at various parts. The exact nature of the change that takes place in the production of the condition above described, has given rise to much diflference of opinion ; some authors maintaining that the primary change consists in an overgrowth of the epithehum of the tubuli seminiferi and epididymis, which afterwards Fig. 951.—Tuberculous Testis, a. TuMli seminiferi: 6. Giant-cells (40 diam.). ■undergoes fatty degeneration ; and others asserting that the primary growth takes place between the tubules, and that the changes in the epithelium are secondary. The accompanying drawing (Fig. 951) represents a section of one of the small outlying nodules in the body of the gland. It will be seen that the change consists in an accumulation of small round cells in a more or less perfect reticulate stroma between the tubules, separating them from each other. At the same time the walls of the tubules have undergone a change, being infiltrated with cells in the same way. The tubules also are choked with epithelium, which in some parts of the same testicle was found to be under- going fatty degeneration. Towards the centre of the nodule the intertubular growth also becomes caseous. Scattered through the new growth are many large masses of protoplasm containing many nuclei, the tuberculous giant- cells. It is most probable, therefore, that the change commences in the vascular tissue between the tubuli seminiferi, and gives rise to secondary