SAGRO-ILIAC DISEASE: SYMPTOMS. 405 were falling -asunder. The pain is increased bj any effort that calls the respiratory muscles into action, such as coughing, sneezing, or laughing, and is greatly aggravated by straining at stool. As the disease advances, the pain becomes more continuous, and of a gnawing or rheumatic character. Its intensity varies greatly : in some instances it is throughout shght, except on movement; in others it is excruciating, the patient shrieking with agony, and being unable to obtain rest in any position. The pain in the gluteal region may in some cases he due to irritation of the lumbo-sacral cord, which lies in close contact with the articulation. The pain is usually confined to the gluteal region and groin, but may extend down the thigh. When the patient is lying on his back or side, the limb on the affected side may be abducted or adducted, or the head of the thigh-bone may be pressed up against the acetabulum, without any increase of pain, provided the pelvis be fixed by the pressure of the hands. If this be not done, considerable, even intolerable, pain will be experienced on moving the hmb. So, also, if the Surgeon seize the sides of the pelvis in his hands, and move them to and fro, or press them together transversely, or separate them by pressing the anterior superior spines asunder, pain will be elicited, the affected joint being then influenced by the movement. There is often diffused tenderness on pressure over the gluteal region ; but this is less about the hip-joint than in coxalgia, and gradually increases as the finger is pressed backwards upon the sacro-iliac articulation, so that it may at last be localized in a smah spot. 2. Swelling.—A puffy swelling may be perceptible early in the disease, over the affected articulation. It assumes a somewhat elongated appearance from above downwards, and does not extend to any distance outwards under ,the gluteal muscles, nor does it invade the natural hollow behind the trochanter As the disease advances, and suppuration takes place, the swelling increases materially, and assumes different and peculiar characters. 3. Lameness is an early symptom. The patient walks insecurely ; has a feeling of want of proper support to the body; leans forward, and uses a stick. _ He puts the foot of the affected side to the ground, but does not tread upon It so firmly as upon the other ; he cannot stand on it, or twist himself suddenly round. As the disease advances, the powers of support and progres- sion dimmish, and at last the patient becomes unable to assume the erect position, lying in bed usually on the sound side. 4. Alterations in the Shape of the Hip and Length of the Limb are early and marked symptoms. From the very commencement of the disease the limb on _ the affected side will seem to be longer than the sound one ; the tip of the inner malleolus being usually, as the patient lies on his back, half an inch below the level of the same point of bone on the opposite side. But on close exammation, it will be found that the measurement from the anterior superior spine to the inner malleolus gives the same result on both sides : hence the elongation cannot be owing to any change that has taken p ace in the bones or in the three large joints' of the lower extremity, but nS s, ine'of th T ''"^^ ""^^ situated beyond the anterio; superS spine of he ilmm. On closer investigation, this point of bone is found to be at a lower level, and at the same time more prominent, than its fellow on the opposite side : the displacement is thus produced, not by any obi nuitv b i b?H T ' '''''' ^""^^^^ «P^"^'-« in hip-llt E bat by the tilting forwards and rotation downwards of the whole sideTf the