TREATMENT OF ANEURISM: CONSTITUTIONAL. 117 the sac being plugg-ed up by a mass of coagulum, as happeued in the case repre- sented in Fig. 452 ; on the gradual detachment of the deeper portions of this coaguhiin the bleeding may recur in small quantities at intervals, and more or less speedily carry off the patient. On the mucous surfaces, as of the oeso- phagus or trachea, rupture occurs in a similar manner (Fig. 452). On the serous surfaces, as into the pleura or pericardium, the aneurism may burst by a fissure or by a stellate opening (Fig. 453) forming in the membrane. An aneurism has been known to give way and discharge blood for some weeks before it proved fatal ; and it may even happen that, after the rupture has occurred, no haemorrhage may take place, but death may result from the pressure of the tumour. Thus, in the case of Liston, the sac of the aneurism which caused the death of that great Surgeon had actually given way, a mass of coagulum projecting from it into the trachea ; yet death resulted from pressure upon the inferior laryngeal nerve, and not from hgemorrhage. The Treatment of aneurism is constitutional and local. In many cases, as in the various forms of internal aneurism constitutional treatment can alone be employed ; and in all cases of external aneurism it should be had recourse to as an adjunct to any local measures that are adopted. In the Constitutional or Medical Treatment of aneurism, the object is to bring about a condition similar to that in which spontaneous cure of the disease takes place, and, indeed, to put the patient and the part in the most favourable state for nature to consolidate the tumour ; and, though it may not be possible in most cases to eifect a cure in this way, the disease may at all events be palliated, and its progress retarded. The sacculated is the only fom of aneurism that can ever be cured by constitutional means • in the fusiform variety, all that can be done is to retard the progress of the disease The principal objects to be kept in view are, first to lessen the force of the heart, so as to diminish the pressure upon the arterial coats ; and, secondly so to modify the condition of the blood as to dispose it to the deposit of its fibrin In carrymg out these indications, it should be borne in mind that there are two opposite conditions of the system in which aneurism occurs : in one there 18 a plethoric, and in the other an anaemic tendency. The plethoric and irritable state of system occurs chiefly in young subjects, in whom the proo-ress