ANEURISM OF THE CAROTID. 169 , anication was established between these vessels as the result of disease ; Tarn not acquainted with any case of Varicose f-^-^^f^^^^^ laying been recorded. The Signs of aneunsmal vanx ^« " m-esent nothino- peculiar; and the Treatment muBt be entirely of a hygienic irrcter, no o^eJ^ being likely to wM a fatal result. It is the more desirable not to interfere m these cases, as the disease does not appear to shorten life. Spontaneous Aneurism of the Carotid is not of very unfrequent occui- rence : in Crisp's table of 551 aneurisms, 25 were of the carotid ; and it ranks 1.1 order of frequency between those of the abdominal aorta and of the sub- clavian. It occurs more frequently in the female than any other external aneurism : thus, of the 25 cases alluded to, 12 were m women, ihis is owing probably to its seldom being the result of violence, but generally arising from disease of the coats of the vessel. In Holmes's table of 337 aneurisms, 11 were of the common carotid, 10 being spontaneous, and 1 traumatic. Three of the former were in women. This aneurism is also remarkable as uccurring at earlier ages than most others : thus, Hodgson has seen it m a o-irl of ten ; Sykes, of Philadelphia, in one of eighteen; Heath m a woman ao^ed twenty-three (external carotid), who was suffering from extensive disease of the cardiac valves. The right carotid is much more commonly affected than the left, and the upper portion of the vessel than the lower ; the bifur- cation being the most common seat of the disease. The root of the right < arotid not uncommonly is dilated ; but I have never heard of a case m which the left carotid has been affected in the chest. Symptoms.—A carotid aneurism in the early stage forms a small, ovoid, smooth tumour, with distinct pulsation and bruit, and a well-circumscribed outline. It is commonly soft and compressible, diminishing in size on pressure, and expanding again with the usual aneurismal dilatation. As it increases in size, it becomes more solid, occasions shooting pains in the head and neck, and, by its pressure on the pharynx, oesophagus, and larynx, causes difficulty in deglutition and respiration ; sometimes the salivary glands are inuch irritated. After a time, the cerebral circulation is interfered with, giving rise to giddiness, impaired vision of the corresponding eye, noises in ear, and a tendency to stupor. These symptoms may be owing to compression of the jugular, to difficulty in the transmission of the blood through the t umour, or to irritation of the cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. The size which these aneurisms may attain varies greatly : usually they are confined to the space under the angle of the jaw, but not unfrequently they occupy the oreater part of the side of the neck. If they be allowed to increase without iuterference, death may happen, either by rupture externally, or into the pharynx or oesophagus ; by asphyxia, from pressure on the larynx or recurrent nerve ; or by starvation, from compression of the oesophagus. Aneurisms of the carotid are usually of slow growth, and may sometimes exist for years without giving rise to any special inconvenience ; this is more particularly the case when they are seated, at the bifurcation of the artery. 1 have, however, seen an aneurism in this situation attain the size of a small orange in a few weeks. When at the root of the neck, they are more likely to be attended with injurious pressure-effects at an early period. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of carotid aneurism is more difficult than that of any other external aneurism, and the best proof of this is, that the carotid