TREATMENT OF PHIMOSIS. i2i9 stream throuo-h the narrowed preputial orifice ; and irritability of the bladdei^ often presenting symptoms simulatino- calculus, may thus be set up in veiy rare instances a fatal result has ultimately followed as the result of changes m the kidneys caused by the persistent obstruction. Calculous concretions may toim between the glans and the prepuce in such cases as these. Whishaw ot yza- bad, removed no fewer than 426 calculi, varying in size from a pin s head to a small bean, from this situation in a native of India, GO years of age, who came under treatment for what appeared to be a large tumour of the end of the penis, the true nature of which was not detected until in removing it theknite grated against the contained calculi. Various affections of the genito-urinary organs in children, such as incontinence, intermittent flow of urine, hfBmaturia, priapism, &c., have been shown by Bryant to be caused bv congenital phimosis. The straining in micturition may give rise also to hernia and prolapse of the rectum. Hydrocele of young children will also be found to be very frequently associated with phimosis. Sayre has pointed out the important fact that reflex paralysis and various forms of spastic contractions, chiefly of the lower limbs, are due to the same cause, being readily curable by circumcision. In addition to these I have seen general spasmodic affections in children resembhng chorea, resulting from congenital phimosis. At more advanced periods of life I have known it to be a cause of Fig.j)3&^-irntated sterility, the semen being retained under the tight prepuce mosfs. until erection had completely subsided. Congenital phimosis especially becomes a source of inconvenience in after-life if any gonorrhoea! or venereal disease be contracted, as it renders exposure of the diseased part difficult or impossible, and interferes with the necessary treatment. In the opinion of some Surgeons, cancer of the penis, if not directly occasioned, is at all events predisposed to, by congenital phimosis. . Acquired Phimosis usually results from repeated attacks of inflammation, or of specific disease in the part, giving rise to soHd oedema, or to false hyper- trophy of the prepuce. In elderly men, phimosis will sometimes slowly come on as a consequence of the irritation set up by cracks, fissures, or superficial ulcerations round the preputial orifice, which becomes narrowed, so as to prevent the glans from being uncovered. It may occur iu gouty or diabetic subjects as the result of repeated attacks of balano-posthitis (p. 1223). The preputial mucous mem- brane becomes thickened, and can be felt like a broad band under the loose and possibly slightly oedematous integument of the prepuce. This condition is a source of much irritation and annoyance, and requires relief by dilatation or by circumcision. Treatment.—Every child who has a congenital phimosis ought to be circum- cised ; and even those who, without having phimosis, have an abnormally long and lax prepuce, would be improved greatly in cleanliness, health, and morals by the same operation. It would be well indeed if the custom of Eastern nations, whether it be regarded as a religious rite or only as a time-honoured observance, were introduced amongst us. Phimosis, when not congenital, must be treated in accordance with its cause : thus, if it have resulted from inflammation, that must be subdued ; if from venereal disease, that must be remedied, when perhaps the contraction and elongation will gradually subside. 4 r 2