LIGATURE OF POPLITEAL AND POSTERIOR TIBIAL. 251 Hospital under my care for an aneurism of the anterior tibial at the lower part of the upper third of the right leg. The signs were well marked—pulsation forcible and excentric, bruit loud. Compression was used without avail; and as he was anasarcous, no other surgical treatment could be adopted. He left the hospital uncured. The popliteal and tibial arteries sometimes require ligature for injury, but very rarely for disease. The operation may be briefly described here. Ligature of the Popliteal Artery.—The popHteal artery may be tied at any part of its course. In the lower tiuo-thirds it can be reached only by an incision in the line of the vessel. The external saphenous vein will be found in the subcutaneous tissue, and must be avoided. After dividing the deep fascia the internal popliteal nerve must be found and drawn to the outer side. The vein then comes into view and must be drawn out of the way, when the artery will be exposed lying deeply on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint. This operation is never undertaken except for a wound, and consequently must always be more or less of an informal character. In its upper third the vessel is reached most easily from the inner side. The guiding line for the incision is the posterior border of the tendon of the adductor magnus. The knee is flexed and the limb placed on its outer side, and an incision is made from three to four inches in length parallel to the tendon of the adductor magnus and immediately behind it. Its upper extremity should correspond to the junction of the lower and middle thirds of the thigh. The skin and super- ficial fascia are divided, avoiding the long saphenous nerve if possible, and the deep fascia opened. The edge of the tendon of the adductor magnus, which forms the first rallying point in the operation, is then sought for. Some branches of the anastomotica magna are divided at this stage of the operation and requii-e ligature. When the adductor tendon is found, the sartorius and gracilis and inner hamstring muscles are pushed backwards with the finger and held with a copper spatula. Care must be taken not to pass the spatula between the bone and the artery, which is surrounded in this situation by a considerable amount of loose fat. This fat being torn through, the artery is exposed without much difficulty. The vein and the internal popliteal nerve he to the outer side and are not seen. The ligature should not be applied too near the superior articular branches. Ligature of the Posterior Tibial Artery.—The line of the posterior tibial artery is from a point about one inch below the knee, and equidistant from the two sides of the limb, to a point one finger's breadth behind the inner malleolus. The vessel may be tied at any part of its course, but the procedure has rarely been undertaken as a formal operation except about the middle of the calf or behind the inner malleolus. In the middle of the leg the posterior tibial artery should be tied only for a wound, and in such circumstances, as a rule, no regular operation can be per- formed ; but an incision of sufficient length, taking the wound for its centre, should be made through the gastrocnemius and soleus parallel to their fibres, when, after these have been cut through, the deep fascia will be exposed, ihis must next be opened, when the artery will be found accompanied by its vems and havmg the nerve to the outer side. From the depth at which the vessel is situated, and the free incisions that it is necessary to make throuo-h muscular parts, it is extremely difficult to apply the hgature in this situation.