228 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. safer to have recourse to Abernetliy's plan, modified as above described, for in this way we shall be able to lif^-atui'c the vessel at any pai't of its course ; whilst in cases of hiemorrhage after amputation, or of traumatic femoral aneurism, in which the artery is not likely to be diseased, recourse should be liad to Cooper's operation, more particularly if the patient be thin, and the abdomen flat. At the present day, however, the Surgeon may resort to ligature of the vessel through the peritoneum in those cases in which Astley Cooper's operation is impracticable. This plan is certainly to be recommended when it is doubtful whether it may not be found necessary to apply the ligature to the common trunk, for although Abernethy's incision may be extended for this purpose the procedure is a difficult one. Mitchell Banks, Coppinger, Makins, and Brown of Leeds have adopted the transperitoneal method successfully in cases of inguinal aneurism. In Banks's case the external iliac was tied through an incision in the right linea semilunaris. In Brown's case the aneurism extended so far above the groin that a median incision was employed ; the patient was very fat, and thus the operation was diificult. In connexion with the ligature of the external iliac artery, there are some practical points that deserve mention. Before the operation the colon should be emptied by means of an enema, and the pubes shaved. The incision in the abdominal wall must be sufficiently extensive. In Abernethy's method, modified as above described, there is no fear of wounding the epigastric unless the incision be carried too far at its lower end. The artery may roughly be said to run in a line drawn from the point at which the femoral artery crosses the brim of the pelvis to the umbihcus. In neither method of operating should the incision implicate the external ring, lest it give rise to a tendency to hernial protrusion. Care should be taken not to wound the peritoneum ; for, although with efficient antiseptic treatment there is little danger in so doing, yet it is better, if possible, to avoid it. The peritoneum must not be torn up more than is absolutely necessary, lest haemorrhage or subsequent peritonitis occur. In raising the peritoneum, care must be taken not to displace the artery which lies loosely in the subperitoneal tissue, and can easily be raised in the spatula, or pushed over the brim of the pelvis. The separation of the peritoneum is much facilitated by the Surgeon holding the outer cut edge of the transversalis fascia tightly in his forceps with one hand, whilst with the other he gently raises the serous membrane out of the iliac fossa, and separates its areolar connections there. All this must be done with the utmost gentleness and care. Before attempting to pass a ligature round the vessel, the thin fascia covering it must be scratched through" and the areolar connexions with the vein, which are very thni and loose, must be separated by means of a director, or the end of the aneurism needle. The artery must be well cleared, and especial care taken that the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve is not included m the noose. It is better not to use the knife deep in the wound. Lastly, the sac, if it extend high, must not be weakened by having its peritoneal covering stripped off. • j i * i u Results.—Ligature of the external ihac was first practised by Abernetby in 1796. During the following fifty years there were 100 recorded cases ot the operation for inguinal aneurism (Xorris) ; of these 73 were cured and 2/