45 L YMPHADENITIS. of the normal lymphoid cells, or have been brought to the gland with the lymph from the inflamed area, or have migrated from the vessels. The capsule and trabeculse are similarly infiltrated with small cells. The formation of pus takes place in the same way as in other parts. In the less acute forms larger cells are found, formed by proliferation of the flattened corpuscles that cover the trabeculte and the inner aspect of the capsule. In the more acute forms the surrounding tissues are early implicated in the inflammation. Symptoms.—In Acute Lymphadenitis there are pain, swelling, and cenderness, and stifihess about the affected glands, with a dull heavy sensa- tion in them. The outline of the swollen gland is at first clearly defined, but soon becomes concealed by the inflammation extending to the contiguous areolar tissue. Before long redness, oedema, and the other signs of acute abscess make their appearance. In Subacute Lymphadenitis the glands become swollen, enlarged, and tender, and are matted together by inflamma- tory exudation into the surrounding tissues. If an abscess form, it frequently commences in the structures around the glands ; and those are perhaps eventually exposed at the bottom of the cavity that results. This is especially apt to happen in cachectic and strumous persons from slight sources of irrita- tion. Yery commonly in such subjects the inflammation of the glands runs into a chronic state. Treatment.—The local treatment of inflamed lymphatic glands varies according to the nature of the process. In all forms the local irritation to which the inflammation is due must if possible be removed. In acute lymph- adenitis the application of glycerine and extract of belladonna in equal parts, and hot fomentations may prevent suppuration. In the subacute condition, spirit lotions containing iodide of potassium will sometimes subdue the inflam- mation and take down the swelling. If an abscess form, it must be freely opened and the part dressed with some antiseptic application. The sinuses which are often left when the abscess is imperfectly opened, or allowed to dis- charge by itself, require to be treated by stimulating applications, especially the nitrate of silver ; but very commonly they will not heal unless they are laid open, scraped, and dressed from the bottom. Chronic Lymphadenitis. Tuberculous Disease.—Chronic inflamma- tion of the lymphatic glands may arise as a sequence of subacute inflammation, but more commonly the glands gradually enlarge without marked pain or tenderness in consequence of chronic irritation of some kind. It is often impossible to make any accurate distinction clinically between simple chronic inflammation, strumous enlargement, and tuberculous disease. Chronic inflammation of the glands is commonly looked upon as the most marked characteristic of the strumous diathesis, and the relation of the process to tubercle has already been sufiiciently discussed. In an otherwise healthy individual prolonged local irritation of the skin or mucous membrane will cause a chronic inflammatory enlargement of the neighbouring lymphatic glands. In a strumous subject the amount of glandular enlargement may be out of all proportion to the local irritation causing it. Such strumous glands are not necessarily tuberculous, but are already rendered favourable sites for the growth of the tubercle bacillus, should the latter reach them through the lymphatics, to which it probably gains an entrance by way of the unhealthy mucous suface which first caused the glandular enlargement. In many cases, however, no source of infection can be detected. Tuberculous disease of