NEFHRO-LITHOTOMY. 1009 f Treatment.-During the descent of a renal calculus, which always occupies , many hours, and perhaps some days, the patient should have full doses 0 opium, drink bland diluents freely, be put into a warm hip-bath and have hot , fomentations or mustard poultices applied to the loin ; the bowels should also be thorouo-hly emptied by enemata. Should the pain be very intense the administration of chloroform may be necessary, and whilst the patient is under rhe influence of the auc^sthetic the abdomen may be thoroughly manipulated^ alono- the course of the ureter. It is well to bear in mind that a tram of symptoms somewhat similar to that induced by the descent of the calculus may be excited by some forms of irritation or flatulent distension of the (■tecum and descending colon, which will require appropriate treatment. Should the stone fail to descend, and give rise to the train of symptoms just described, medical treatment may be of much use. An attempt may be made to dissolve the stone by the administration of doses of potash or lithia sufficient to keep the urine persistently alkaline. At the same time the diet must be strictly regulated on the principles laid down in the Chapter on Urinary Galculi. The patient must use distilled water only for drinking purposes. By this treatment the stone appears in some cases to have been dissolved suffi- ciently to allow of its passage by the ureter. If the patient's circumstances allow of it, several months' rest in the recumbent position may be tried, as I under this treatment the calculus may become encysted and fixed in one calyx, and cease to cause trouble. If these means fail, the question ai-ises of per- forming the operation to which the term "nephro-lithotomy " has been applied by H. Morris, who was the first to undertake it. This operation, which consists in the removal of a stone from an otherwise healthy kidney, must be clearly distinguished from simple incision of the kidney or " nephrotomy," undertaken in the later stages when the kidney is distended with pus or urine. It must not be assumed, however, that every case of renal calculus is one suitable for operation. The conditions justifying surgical interference are the following :— 1. The disease must have lasted sufficiently long to make it certain that there is no hope of natural cure by spontaneous expulsion. 2. The inconvenience caused must be such thac it seriously interferes with the patient's enjoyment of life. 3. Medical treatment must have been fairly tried and have failed. 4. The patient must not be passing gravel habitually, as it is evident that under these conditions a fresh stone would probably form in the injured kidney, and lodge there after the operation. 5. The symptoms must be distinctly unilateral. 6. The patient must be otherwise in good health, not too old, and especiall}' not too fat. 7. Lastly, if in spite of treatment the symptoms of pyehtis come on, especially a steadily increasing amount of pus in the urine, the operation may be undertaken in the hope of saving the kidney and of preventing the occun'ence of pyonephrosis, provided that other conditions are favourable. Nephro-lithotomy was first performed by Henry Morris in 1880. Three incisions have been recommended for exposing the kidney in the loin : a ver- tical incision immediately external to the edge of the quadratus lumborum; a long oblique; and a transverse, or nearly transverse, incision. Of these the last is preferable, as being accompanied by less haemorrhage, and more fully exposing the kidney. It is best made slightly obliquely, commencing imme- diately below the free extremity of the last rib, and passing backwards to the edge of the erector spinte. It must not be made parallel to the rib, but VOL. II. ;} X