DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. chief complications of gonorrhoea, such as suppurating bubo, are due to the associated organisms of suppuration and not to the gonococcus itself. Tiie suppurative inflammation of gonorrhoea has these peculiarities : ] It has a distinct and lengthened period of incubation ; 2. It rapidly propagates itself along the mucous tracts that it affects; 3. It is contagious in the highes' degree not only when the pus is applied to, and, as it were, rubbed into the mucous surfaces of the generative organs during coitus, but when it simply touches other mucous surfaces ; and, 4. It is sometimes attended with remote constitutional phenomena partaking of a pyasmic character. Character.—Gonorrhoea is usually looked upon as a purely local affection of the genital organs; but although in the early stages it is doubtless a strictly » local affection, yet it is occasionally followed by a train of very characteristic phenomena, that can scarcely be looked upon in any other light than as the result of constitutional infection ; the more so, as some individuals never have gonorrhoea without the disease being followed by these sequences, whilst others are altogether exempt from them. The parts that are secondarily affected are chiefly the fibrous tissues, and the mucous and cutaneous surfaces. The affec- tions of the fibrous tissues give rise to so-called rheumatism and to peculiar forms of inflammation of the testicle and of the sclerotic. The affection of • the mucous membranes displays itself in specific inflammation of the eyes. The occurrence of these various affections, assuming as they do a specific type: so distinctly marked that they can at once be characterized as gonorrhoeal, . certainly tends to show that the disease impresses the constitution in some l peculiar manner, somewhat analogous to syphilis or pysemia; though in a far • minor degree, and with much less certainty, than these diseases. The Symptoms of gonorrhoea in the male may be divided into three stages :—1. The Incubative Stage, or the period of Irritation ; 2. The Acute Inflammatory Stage ; and 8. The Chronic Stage. 1. Incubative Stage.—The first stage, that of irritation, usually comes on i from two to three days after connexion, when the patient begins to experience e some degree of heat, itching, and general irritation about the penis. The lips < of the urethra are somewhat red and swollen ; its orifice gapes ; and, on i squeezing it, some mucus exudes. This stage usually continues for three orr four days from the time of infection, but sometimes for six or eight, when it' terminates in the second, which is one of active inflammation. 2. Acute or Inflammatory Stage.—The discharge now becomes abun- - dant, thick, and of a greenish-yellow colour ; there is great pain in making : water, with considerable heat and smarting, and the urine, which flows in a i diminished stream, is passed with increased frequency. The urethra is swollen,. firm, and cord-like to the touch ; the whole penis, indeed, looks red and turge- scent. As the disease advances, and the bulbous portion of the urethra becomes • affected, weight and tension in the perinseum will be complained of. If the • prostatic portion be the seat of disease, there will be heat and weight about; the anus, with frequency of micturition and some strangury. During the whole of this period there is generally a good deal of constitutional disturbance, restlessness, and fever. One of the most troublesome symptoms in this stage is the occurrence of: Chordee, which consists in painful erections at night, with a twist in the body of the penis, which is usually curved downwards. 3. Chronic Stage.—The acute symptoms usually continue for about a fort-