ri52 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. datmo- itself to the shape of the parts, and not being so liable to imtat<; tho mucous membrane with its point, which, dipping down into the pouch behind the prostate, acts as a siphon, and empties this part of the bladder far betb i than a sih er catheter could do. When the bladder has been relieved, the patient must be freely purged Belladonna suppositories are often of use, but if there be much pain, opium morphia will be preferable. ln»a few days the congestion of the prostate passes off, and the patient may again be able to pass water unaided. In many cas<-. however, the bladder of an old man which has, perhaps, not been completely emptied for some time, becomes permanently atonic after a single attack of retention, and he is never able again to dispense with the catheter. It becomes an important question what course should be pursued in those rare cases in which the Surgeon fails to pass any instrummt into tha bladder. Aspiration of the bladder above the pubes may perhaps be tried as a first resource, and after some hours, during which the patient has been kept in bed, another attempt made to pass a soft catheter. The hope of such a successful result is small, and aspiration in prostatic retention cannot be regarded with much favour. In these cases three lines of practice may be adopted : tapping thr bladder above the pubes, tajjpincj from the perimmm, and suprapubic cysiotomij. Puncture of the bladder through the rectum is not a safe procedure, whilst " tunnelling the prostate," that is to say, pushing a silver catheter forcibly through the obstruction into the bladder, may be regarded as a method of treatment belonging to a past age of Urinary Surgery, ruder than the present. Tapping the Bladder above the Pubes consists in making a small incision about half an inch in length through the integuments, exactly in the mesial line, immediately above the pubes, and then pushing a specially constructed curved trochar, with its concavity downwards and backward.^, into the bladder behind that bone, and consequently below the reflection of the peritoneum. After the bladder has been emptied, the cannula or a gum-elastic tube must be left in for the escape of the urine, whilst the con- tinuity of the natural passage is being restored. When the bladder is greatly distended, in consequence of retention from enlargement of the prostate or any other cause, the peritoneal reflection is carried up with it, and a con- siderable portion of the anterior wall of the organ uncovered by peritoneum is left above the pubes. In a case of unrelieved retention from stricture, in which the patient died suddenly during the administration of chloroform, and which I had an opportunity of dissecting, I found that the summit of the bladder reached to five inches above the symphysis pubis, and was only two inches below the umbilicus ; that the line of reflection of the peritoneum was 3| inches above the bone; and that the space uncovered by serous membrane was ^\ inches wide. The bladder contained nearly forty ounces of urine, the retention having lasted forty-eight hours. Tapping the Bladder from the Perinaeum has especially been advo- cated by Eeginald Harrison. The patient being fixed in the lithotomy position, the Surgeon passes his left index finger into the rectum to serve as a guide. A straight trochar and cannula is introduced in the middle hue of the peri- naeum three-quarters of an inch in front of the anus, and is pushed straight into the bladder through the middle of the prostate. The trochar is with- drawn and the cannula fixed with tapes. Harrison allows the patient to leave his bed at the end of a week or ten days, a tube passing to an india-rubber