STRICTURE OF Till': (ESOPHAGUS: TREATMENT. 719 I stricture the disease occurs after 30, and in men more often than in women. It develops rapidly, the history seldom extending beyond six months when the case is first seen. Blood and pus may be brought up with the regurgitated matter. The mass formed by the tumour may sometimes be felt m the neck, and enlargement of the lymphatic glands is commonly present. The diagnosis will, however, of ten be uncertain, especially when it is remembered that epithe- lioma may commence in a scar in the oesophagus as in other parts of the body. The electric ccsophacjoscope does not appear to be of much practical utility. The Treatment of a stricture of the oesophagus will depend upon its nature. In the hysterical variety, the occasional introduction of a full-sized bougie, the application of belladonna to the neck, and anti-hysterical treatment generally, iron, aloetics, assafoetida in large doses, douches, and diverting the patient's mind, are the means to be employed. In the treatment of oryanic stricture care must be taken to maintain the patient's strength by proper feeding. Finely minced meat, strong soups, raw eggs, and soft puddings should be given so long as the patient can swallow them. As the difficulty becomes greater, so that even liquids can be taken only slowly and in small quantities, it becomes necessary to feed the patient through a gum elastic tube passed beyond the stricture. When feeding by a tube becomes necessary, it has been recommended to tie it permanently in position. This, however, prevents the swallowing of the saliva and causes considerable irritation where it lies against the larynx. To obviate this, Charters Symonds has successfully used a gum elastic tube, about six inches in length and the size of a No. 10 or 12 catheter, the upper end of which is funnel-shaped, so as to rest upon the stricture. To the edges of the funnel two silk threads are attached and brought out at the mouth by which the tube can easily be removed when necessary. It is passed by means of a common bougie inserted into the funnel. In one of Symonds's cases the man wore the tube for eight months after natural deglutition had become impossi- ble, swallowing easily through it. It was changed about once in two weeks unless it became choked. Although the stricture was malignant the presence of the tube did not seem to aggravate the disease. When feeding by a tube is impossible, the patient may still be kept alive for some weeks by nutritive enemata, but unless relieved by operation in- • •vitably dies before long of starvation. In the treatment of the stricture much will depend upon its degree and nature. In simple cicatricial strictures, if not very extensive or very narrow, Fi.a 54.—Epithelioma of Pharynxaiul (Esophagus causing Stricture.