DEFORMITIES OF THE SPINE. 522 becomes tilted downwards on the left side ; the left loin is prominent and convex, whde the right is hollow, and the right iliac crest is more prominent than the left. Very commonly there is a good deal of neuralgic tenderness about tl,. spine, constituting the ordinary irritable or hysterical spine, and at this early statje there may be aiiasmia and symptoms of impaired nutrition. In the more advanced stages, general debility, emaciation, and pallor coiue on ; the mal-nutritiou of the body, which was the primary cause of the curvature, being increased by the compression to which the thoracic and abdominal organs are subjected. During the early period of the case, the spine preserves its flexibility ; and whilst the curve is still recent, and the patient young, if the weight of the head and shoulders be taken off, it will at once resume its straight direction. Thus, if the patient be hfted off the ground by raising her up with the hands under the axilife, or if she be laid down on her face on a flat couch, the back will fall into a straight position, or may readily be made to do so by slight traction. After the affection has existed for some time, or if the patient have passed that age at which consolidation of the bones and ligaments is completed, the distortion will continue permanently, in whatever position she may be placed. This is not only owing to the deformity of the spine, but to the ribs, and the ligamentous and muscular structures generally of the trunk, having become distorted, shortened, and fixed in their abnormal positiou. Treatment.—The treatment of lateral curvature of the spine should be conducted on rational principles ; and, when divested of the mystery with which some interested specialists have surrounded it, becomes simple enough. There are three principles of treatment that require to be carried out in these cases. The first is the improvement of the general health,—unless this be effected, nothing can be done ; the second is, to strengthen the muscles of the spine ; and the third, to avoid all faulty attitudes of rest by which the curved position of the spine is maintained. The administration of some of the milder preparations of iron, with a course of aloetics for the regulation of the uterine function, is of great moment ; at the same time, a nourishing diet of animal food should be allowed, and the patient encouraged to take exercise in the open air. By these means the nutrition of the system will be improved, and the tone of the muscles restored. The greatest attention must be paid to the position which the patient assumes when sitting. She must sit quite squarely at the table and should write or draw upon a sloping desk so that the tendency to lean forward is corrected. The chair should have a high back which slopes slightly backwards, and against this the patient's shoulders must rest. Should there be any error in the accommodative power of the eyes, this must be corrected by the use of proper glasses. If the girl rides, she should learn to sit alternately on the off and near sides. Standing still must be avoided, and the patient particularly cautioned against lolling about with the weight of the body resting more on one leg than the other. The patient should sleep on a firm mattress, with the head on a low pillow. Amongst the most valuable means of strengthening the spinal muscles are douching and massage and the regular performance of suitable exercises. The back should be well douched with cold or tepid salt water every morninsr and evening, and the muscles methodically rubbed from top to bottom, either