948 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. CHAPTER LXIV. DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. CONaENITAL MALFORMATIONS. Before passing to the consideration of the more important Congenital Malformations to which the rectum and anus are liable, it may be to ecaU very briefly certam stages in the development of these pam U a certam stage he rudimentary genito-nrinary apparatus opens into the h nd gut by means of the uro-genital sinus, and thus a true cloaca exists. Over ''"^^/^ "^^'^ '^'^'^ " invagination of the epiblast occurs formmg the proc od^nm, and by the absorption of the thin septum betwe u the two, a cloacal orifice is produced. In the fifth or sixth week the ^eniral eminence from which the penis or clitoris develops, makes its appearanc withm the anterior margin of the cloacal orifice. A little later the orifice becomes divided into two parts by the gradual formation of a septum which extends downwards and separates the posterior, or anal, orifice from the anterior, or uro-genital. Thus the rectum and anus are completely separated Irom the genito-urinary apparatus, the further stages in the development of which need not be considered. The following are the most important abnormal conditions of the rectum and anus:—]. Narrowing and partial closure of the anus. 2. Complete closure of the anus. 3. Anus present, but rectum wanting to a variable degree. 4. Anus and rectum wanting. 5. Anus present or absent; rectum opening into bladder, vagina, or urethra. In extremely rare cases absence of the rectum has been associated with want of development of the rest of the large intestine, or the anus has been found in an abnormal situation. Reference to the mode of development of the part shows that the ordinary malformations cannot be explained by any simple arrest of the process. Thus, failure of the proctodeum to open into the hind-gut will not serve to ex- plain those cases in which the anus is present but does not communicate with the rectum, for the proctodjeum opens into the common cloaca of the hind-gut and uro-genital sinus. Hence the error of development must be looked for at a later stage, and probably consists in a secondary closure of the rectal part of the cloaca at the time when the latter becomes subdivided into its two portions. Doubtless an explanation of these cases in which the rectum communicates with some part of the genito-urinary apparatus must be sought for in the original communication between the uro-genital sinus aud the hind-gut. 1. Narrowing and Partial Closure of tlie Anus.—The canal contiuues pervious, but not sufficiently to allow of the bowels being completely emptied, the anus usually merely admitting a full-sized probe. In some cases the