TAPPING THE PERICARDIUM. 763 ,,ace incised with a long- straight scalpel, passed along the aspirator needle which serves as a guide to the cavity. Should it be necessary to open up the limg substance more freely, this may best be done by means of dressing forcepp, as in Hilton's plan of opening deep abscesses. Free drainage must be secured hy introducing a flanged drainage-tube well into the cavity. The Surgeon must be prepared for somewhat profuse heemorrhage, the blood escaping from the wound or through the mouth. As a rule the bleeding quickly ceases, but sometimes it is necessary to arrest it by gently plugging the cavity with strips of gauze. If, after the pleura has been exposed, the Surgeon be doubtful as to the existence of adhesions, there is grave danger in proceeding at once to incise the lung. In the absence of adhesions the lung will at once retract when the parietal pleura is divided, and all further attempts to draw up the lung and open the abscess will fail or be attended with almost certain infection of the pleural cavity. Under these circumstances the Surgeon should follow Godlee's advice and endeavour to stitch up the lung' to the parietal pleura without opening the latter, and postpone incising the lung for at least a week. No antiseptics are needed when the contents of the cavity are already .lecomposing ; free drainage is all that is required ; and all antiseptics, if injected, irritate the bronchi and lung. If there is any reason to think that the abscess is the result of the presence of a foreign body in the lung it may be advisable to keep the wound open with a tube for a considerable period in the hope that the foreign body may work its way out. In a case of pulmonary abscess recently under the care of Godlee in University College Hospital, the iron peg of a top escaped from the wound many months after it had entered the air-passages. Hydatids of the Lung.—Hydatid disease of the chest, affecting chiefly the lung substance or the pleura, is so rare in this country that for our know- ledge of the subject we are largely indebted to Austrahan writers, among whom may be mentioned Dougau Bird of Melbourne, and Thomas and Gardner of Adelaide. Although, in some instances, successful results have followed the simple operation of tapping or aspiration, the dangers attending this treatment are so great that it should not be practised in a case in which hydatid disease of the lung is suspected. The danger consists in suffocation, due to the sudden flooding of the lung tissue with fluid from the cyst. A case in which a fatal result was thus caused has recently been recorded in this country by Bristowe. The safer plan to adopt is to expose the lung after the removal of a portion of one or more ribs in the way recommended for the treatment of abscess in the lung. The cyst should then be exposed and opened by incising the lung-substance and the cavity •h-ahied, or if possible, the parasitic cyst completely removed, as advocated l)y Gardner and others. Tapping the Pericardium.—In hydrops pericardii, attended with immi- nent danger of death from pressure, it will be necessary to tap the pericar- dinm. The operation is most safely done with the aspirator. From experi- nents made on the dead body, Dieulafoy concludes that it may be performed in the fourth or fifth left interspace, the fifth being perhaps preferable, as it is nearer the apex of the heart and is a more dependent situation. The puncture may be made ft-om 2 to 2^ inches from the left margin of the sternum. The