3o6 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN HONE. in Germany, to a disease occnrring in young children which is characterized by the following symptoms : after a few days' illness, somewhat sudden swell- ing takes place, evidently in connexion with the l)ones, usually in the lower extremities, but sometimes also in the upper limbs. Of all bones the femora are most frequently affected, but most commonly the swelling is not limited to one bone. There is subcutaneous oedema, varying in amount. Acute tender- ness forms a most prominent symptom, and the slightest movement evidently causes severe pain. The limbs consequently lie motionless, a condition which has been termed " pseudo-paralysis." The swelling of the bones is usually most marked near the ends of the shafts, and in extreme cases the epiphyses are found to be separated. Other bones often become affected subsequently to the first appearance of the disease. There is usually some elevation of temperature, but it seldom exceeds 101-5° F. Bpongy gums are met with in about half the cases ; purpura, hgematuria, and subconjunctival hajmorrhage have also been noted. The child soon becomes extremely anasmic, and, if not properly treated, rapidly emaciates and dies. The fatal cases, when examined after death, have shown that the pain and swelling are due to a copious extravasation of blood beneath the periosteum stripping it widely from the bone. The disease has been described by German writers as "acute rickets," but Barlow, who has carefully analysed 22 cases, states that in three the signs of rickets were very pronounced, in seven moderately well marked, in nine slight, and in three absolutely wanting. He therefore concludes that the scurvy is the essential part of the disease, the rickets being more or less accidental, and at most favouring the occurrence of the subperiosteal haemorrhages. In every case the disease seems to have been the result of improper feeding, chiefly an insufficient supply of milk in infants, and want of vegetables in older children. Barlow therefore suggests the name of " infantile scurvy " for the disease. The treatment is usually successful if the disease be recognized in time. Milk, lime-juice, and fresh vegetables, with plenty of fresh air, soon relieve the symptoms. MOLLITIES OSSIUM. OSTEOMALACIA. MoUities Ossium is a somewhat rare disease characterized by softening : of the bones. It has been studied with much attention ^y Curling, Solly, . Stanley, Maclntyre, and Litzmann ; and it is principally from their labours ^ that we are acquainted with the chief facts relating to it. _ In this disease the bones are bent, or their shafts broken m various parts ot ' the body. Occasionally, though very rarely, only one is fractured; but m other ■ cases, as in Tyrrell's, there may be as many as twenty-two fractures, or, as m Arnott's thirty-one. These fractures are unattended with any attempt at the formation of callus. The body becomes singularly and distressingly distort^ed. On examining the bones after death the periosteum is seen to be usually reddei and more vascular than natural. A section of the bone can readily be mad with a knife, the osseous tissue feeling soft and gritty as it is cut. The medullary canal of a long bone is increased in diameter, the spaces of the cancellous Tsue are enlarged by coalescence, after destruction of the bony ^^^^^^ the compact tissue is more spongy than natural, from widening of J Haveismii canals. However advanced these changes may be there is always a thm una tered layer of compact bone immediately beneath the periosteum. The