SFIiYA BIFIDA: VARIETIES. 471 all cases are met with in this part. Next in frequency stands the sacral region, with about 17 per cent. The remaining 33 per cent, are scattered about equally over the other portions of the spinal column. Spina bifida is not uncommonly associated with other deformities, especially club-foot, talipes calcaneus being a common form. Hydrocephalus is also a frequent complication, and paralysis of the parts below the tumour is often met with. In 245 cases collected by the Committee of the Clinical Society, paralysis was recorded as being present in 53, talipes in 42, and hydrocephalus in 30. Ulceration of the lower limbs, apparently trophic in nature, has also been observed. The malformation is slightly more frequent in females than in males. Pathological Anatomy.—The tumour in spina bifida is described as being composed of a sac with its coverings and contents. The sac consists of the membranes of the cord protruding through a gap left by the want of union of some of the neural arches ; the coverings are the integuments of the back, and the contents are cerebro-spinal fluid in all cases, and in a large proportion a portion of the cord and the nerves proceeding from it. The cerebro-spinal fluid is clear and limpid in appearance, and of a specific gravity of from 1003 to 1006. It contains merely a trace of albumen, a considerable amount of chloride of sodium, and a trace of a substance which, like sugar, reduces copper salts. In some forms the sac, its coverings and its nervous contents, are quite distinct ; but more commonly the integuments, the protruded membranes and the projecting portion of the cord, are blended together at the most prominent part of the tumour. There are three chief forms of spina bifida :— 1. Spinal Meningocele.—In this form the membranes only are pro- truded, the cord and nerves retaining their normal position. Of the 125 cases examined by the Committee of the Clinical Society, 10 were of this variety. The tumour is commonly pedunculated, and escapes by a small cleft left by the want of union of one or two neural arches at the most. It has even been known to protrude between two normal neural arches. The skin covering it may be normal, but more commonly it is scar-like in the central part. Simple meningocele may occur at any part of the spinal column. It may protrude from the natural cleft at the lower end of the sacrum, forming one variety of the so-called congenital sacral tumours." Patients affected with this form may live to adult life, the tumour ceasing to increase at a compara- tively early period, and possibly undergoing spontaneous cure, but this fortunate result is exceptional. In the museum of University College is a specimen obtained from a woman aged 32, who died from other causes. The tumour is covered by healthy skin and a dense fascia. It is composed of three sacs, separated from one another by membranous septa, and only one of these, and that the smallest, communicates with the spinal canal. 2. Meningo-myelocele—In this form a portion of the cord and the nerves coming from it are protruded with the membranes. Seventy-six of the 125 cases examined by the Committee were of this kind. The tumour is very commonly sessile, and corresponds to a cleft formed by the want of union of several neural arches. The wall of the protrusion, except in its central part, will be found to be composed of normal skin, dura mater, and arachnoid, each of which can be recognized. The central part is scar-like in appearance, and composed of a layer of epithelium covering a thin layer of