i 368 DISEASES OF JOnVTS. 4 disease of the radio-cavpal articulation. lu this form melon-seed bodies an; often present. j The incautious puncture of these cysts without efficient antiseptic pr(-- cautions, under the impression that they had no connexion with tli' neighbouring joint, has in several recorded cases been followed by septic arthritis and destruction of the articulation. Mere puncture or aspiration cannot from the nature of the case be productive of much benefit. Thesi cysts may, however, safely be incised and drained if proper antiseptic pr(r- cautions are taken. In some cases, in spite of treatment by incision or otherwise, the tuberculous nature of the affection becomes manifest after atiim by progressive disease in the articulation. In two cases of compound ganglion | of the wrist in University College Hospital, incision and drainage apparently cured the patients, but some months afterwards tuberculous disease developed ' in the radio-carpal and carpal articulations, necessitating excision of the wrist in both cases. NEUBALGIA OF JOINTS. Pain of a severe character is often experienced in or around a joint, closely simulating, but not dependent upon, inflammation or other structural disease. This pain"^ which is purely neuralgic, may have its origin either in some local irritation of a nerve leading to the sensitive part, or in constitutional disorder of a hysterical character. Neuralgia of the Joints, to which attention was directed principally by Benjamin Brodie, occurs chiefly in young women who are either the subjects of hysteria, or are of a highly nervous tem- perament. This is not, however, invariably the case, for a similar condition may occur in men who exhibit none of the emotional symptoms of hysteria. Symptoms.—It is generally found that the hip, knee, ankle, or shoulder is the joint affected—the hip and the knee more especially. The neuralgia is usually localized in a particular joint by some slight injury that the part has sustained. But it is important to observe that in these cases the pain'often does not develop for some days, or even weeks, after the injury that is the alleo-ed cause of it. Severe pain in the joint is complained of ; and the limb is rendered comparatively useless, often with a good deal of distortion or contraction. On examination, it will be found that the pain, which is commonly very severe, is superflcial and cutaneous, not existing in the interior of the articulation, nor increased by pressure of the articular surfaces against one another ; and that it is not strictly confined to the joint, but radiates for some distance around it. This pain is often intermittent in its character, and is frequently associated with neuralgia elsewhere, as in the spine ; and not unfrequently with uterine irritation or disease. The patient sometimes acQuires the trick of producing loud snappings of some muscle or tendon which are distinctly audible all over the room whenever she walks or moves. At the same time, it will be observed that all the signs that ought to accora- T^anv a severe attack of inflammation in a joint, such as w^ould be attended L a corresponding amount of pain, are absent: there being no painful «tartings of the limb at night, no heat, redness or swelling, no elevation of temperature ; and the suffering being increased by causes, such as mental and emotional disturbance, that do not influence organic disease. Attention to these various circumstances will usually enable the Surgeon to recognise the