DIGITAL DILATATION OF THE PYLORUS. 937 of Chicago 53 recovered. The earlier steps of the operation are the same as in pjlorecto'my. The stomach being exposed, a loop of small intestine is drawn up from below its cardiac end. Various methods have been employed for attaching the jejunum to the stomach. Senn's Uone plates have been successfully employed in a considerable number of cases. The plates are used in the manner already described and. ligured at page 924. Murphy's " button," which is available for all varieties of intestinal anastomosis, has also been employed in this operation ; the method of using it will be described in the operation of oholecystenterostomy at page 943. Murphy has recorded seven cases in which this method has been employed by himself and others with only one death. If gastro-enterostomy is performed with simple sutures, the best method is Barker's modification of Wolfler's operation. The omentum having been pushed over to the left, the first part of the jejunum and the middle of the anterior surface of the stomach are drawn out of the incision. The intestine should be emptied of its contents and occluded at two points in the way already described by means of two india-rubber tubes. A fold of the stomach is then pinched up and the empty gut applied to it, the two being held firmly together between the finger and thumb of the left hand. A longitudinal incision about one inch in length is then made in each, dividing the serous and muscular coats only. A line of interrupted sutures is then inserted uniting the posterior edges of the divided muscular and serous coats of the small intestine and stomach. The stitches must be continued at each end for about one inch beyond the incisions, passing through the muscular and serous coats, so as to fix the intestine firmly to the stomach. The mucous membrane may now be divided, and the rest of the operation finished in the usual way, a second row of sutures being afterwards inserted on both sides to give greater security. Castro-enterostomy has given much relief in several cases, but it should not be undertaken if the patient can be kept in tolerable comfort by daily washing out. the stomach. Although it is only a palliative measure it is doubtful whether pylorectomy should ever be adopted in preference to it in the treatment of malignant stricture of the pylorus. Jejuuostomy, or the formation of a fistulous opening in the upper part of the jejunum after attaching it to the abdominal wall, has been performed amongst others by Golding-Bird, Pearce Grould, Ogston, and Mayo Robson. It seems in every way inferior to gastro-enterostomy, except that, as it can be very quickly performed, it may sometimes be available when gastro-enterostomy is not. Digital dilatation of the Pylorus for Simple Stricture, or Loreta's Operation.—This operation was first performed by Loreta, of Bologna, in .1882. He exposed the stomach as if for pylorectomy, and opened it by a transverse incision between 5 and 6 cm. long near the pyloric end. He then inserted first the forefinger of the right hand, and, by a drilling movement passed it through the narrowed pyloric orifice. He then inserted the left fore- finger also, and stretched with some degree of force. The opening in the stomach was immediately closed by Czerny's suture, the abdominal wound brought together, and an antiseptic dressing applied. The operation lasted considerably under an hour. The patient was fed by enemata till the fourth day, when a little food was given by the mouth. Loreta is said to have per-