II04 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITIIOTRITY. fing-ens of an assistant. It is well not to dilate the uretl.ra before the intiv. duction of the instrument, as this difficulty is thereby increased The ordinary male lithotrite is not a very convenient instrument to use in the female bladdeis the handle bein^^ awkwardly long. This is especially Z case in female children. Hence I have found it convenient to have a shorter instrument constructed, with which it is far more easy to work in the fe.nale bladder, ihe stone should be completely pulverized, as in the male, and the fragments removed in the same way with an evacuator and large catheter This plan is much better than that sometimes recommended of dilatin<r the urethra and extracting the pieces with forceps, as in this proceeding the sharn fragments are very likely to lacerate the mucous membrane. The whole stonfi must be removed at one sitting. For all calculi in the female bladder, except those of the very largest size this operation is the most applicable. I have in this way crushed and ex' tracted at one sitting, from the bladder of a lady about 50 years of age, a phosphatic calculus fully as large as a lien's egg. Lithotrity may be had recourse to at all ages, in the very young as well as the old. I have crushed and successfully removed a large calculus from a child three and a half yeare of age, the youngest patient on whom I have operated by this method. Although the urethra of so young a female child cannot, without danger of incontinence, be much dilated, yet it may safely and easily be enlarged sufficiently to admit a moderate-sized lithotrite. 3. Lithotomy should as a general rule be reserved for cases in which the calculus is of large size, or has formed around a foreign body, or in which very severe cystitis exists. The bladder may be opened above the pubes or through the anterior vaginal wall. The former operation is to be preferred, especially if, as is usually the case, the stone is large, or if cystitis is present. The vaginal operation is very easy, but is open to the objection of possibly leaving a permanent urinary fistula—a danger, however, which is probably not great if the lips of the incision have not been bruised by the forceps or by the extraction of the stone. Suprapubic Lithotomy in women differs in no very material respect from the same procedure in men; except that it requires additional care in consequence of the difficulty there is in causing the female bladder to retain enough urine or water to make the viscus rise sufficiently above the pubes. The extraction of the stone is easy, as it can be raised into the grasp of the forceps by being pushed up from the vagina. Vaginal Lithotomy is performed as follows : A short straight gi-ooved staff is passed into the bladder and pressed downwards against the vesico-vaginal septum. A scalpel is then pushed through the anterior wall of the vagina and inferior fundus of the bladder into the groove in the staff, which it is made to enter just behind the neck of the bladder. The incision is continued back- wards for 1| inch, and through the opening the forceps is passed and the stone extracted. Unless there be severe cystitis the incision may be closed with silver wire sutures, after thoroughly washing out the bladder with boric acid lotion. Vaginal lithotomy may, in some cases, be the only alternative. I extracted, by this operation, a calculus measuring eight inches by six in circumference, from the bladder of a woman twenty-three years of age, who had suffered from symptoms of stone from childhood. The stone by its size offered so serious an «