DISEASES OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. and resp.ra ,on. The so-called fibrou>, polgpm pvojeoting fr m the h2 „ t the pharynx has occasionally heen met with (Fig. 753). This form DISEASES OP THE CESOPHAGUS. to consider first the diseases that may affect that canal, most of which cause narrowing of its lumen and consequent dysphagia, and subsequently to describe the symptoms and treatment of stricture of the oesophagus in general Congenital Malformations are very rare, the most common being a communication between the esophagus and the trachea which is incompatible Wltn lite. Congenital fistula and diverticula have also been met with and cases have been recorded of difficulty in swallowing existing from an early a^e to adult life, and proved after death to have been due to narrowing of the upper end of the oesophagus. Complete atresia may also occur, and may be associated with a fistulous communication between the oesophagus below the occlusion and some part of the air passages, usually the trachea. Inflammatory Affections of the (Esophagus are not common, except as the result of injury or the swallowing of corrosive fluids. Chronic catarrh, with enlargement of the mucous glands, is said to occur in spirit-drinkers. Superficial ulceration may then take place, and has been known to give rise to somewhat profuse haemorrhage. Chronic catarrh is usuaUy accompanied by some muscular hypertrophy. The symptoms of this condition are too indefinite to allow of accurate diagnosis, and the pathological appearances have been observed in patients who died from other causes. It is possible, however, that long-continued catarrh may be a cause of simple stricture. Varices of the oesophageal veins in cases of chronic alcoholism, usually with well-marked cirrhosis of the liver, have occasionally been described. The veins of the lower end of the oesophagus have been chiefly affected. The symptom produced by such a condition is htematemesis, which has been known to prove fatal. Ulceration of the (Esophagus may be simple, syphilitic, tuberculous, or malignant, all of which are rare except the last. Simple ulceration is most commonly traumatic, arising from the impaction of a foreign body or from swallowing a corrosive fluid. It may in rare cases arise as a consequence of chronic catarrh. Chronic ulceration of the same nature as that occurring in the stomach is said to occur in the oesophagus at the cardiac end, but this is somewhat doubtful. The oesophagus may, however, be implicated in a gastric ulcer, and the cardiac orifice thus narrowed. Syphilitic and tuberculous ulceration are both decidedly uncommon, though several such cases have been