CONTRACTION OF THE ARM. 533 Campbell de Morgan, who first excised a portion of the spinal accessory in 1862, exposed the nerve at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid. This method is not suited for cases in which the sterno-mastoid is affected. The immediate result of the operation is to paralyze, more or less completely, the sterno-mastoid and trapezius and relieve the spasm. In a considerable number of cases the relief has been permanent, although the paralysis has improved. In other cases the spasm has returned after a variable interval, and sometimes has spread to other muscles. Petit in 1891 collected 26 cases of neurectomy of the spinal accessory for spasmodic torticollis: in 13 the result was successful; 7 were improved, 2 were slightly better, 3 had temporary relief, and 1 died of erysipelas. Southam has performed the operation in 10 cases ; four of these were known to be completely relieved after periods varying from two to eight years. In a case of severe spasm affecting the posterior muscles of the neck in which no relief followed other measures. Keen excised parts of the posterior primary divisions of the first, second, and third cervical nerves. The opera- tion afforded marked, but not complete, relief. Similar treatment has been adopted by Noble Smith and others, but the cases in which such severe measures are justified are necessarily extremely rare. In those cases in which the wry-neck appears to be dependent rather on paralysis of one sterno-mastoid than on spasm of the other, electricity will be found most useful. DEFOEMITIES OF THE ARM AND HAND. Contraction of the Arm is not of very common occurrence, except as the result of burns. I have, however, met with four distinct forms of contraction of the forearm. 1. There may be ankylosis of the elbow-joint, the forearm being bent at a right angle with the arm, the result of disease in or around the articulation. If the ankylosis be fibrous, and the muscles strong and firm, a very useful limb may be restored by breaking -down adhesions, under chloroform; by forcible flexion and extension, followed by the use of passive motion, friction, and douches. Should the muscles be very flaccid and wasted, forcible extension may leave a permanently weakened limb, over which the patient has lost the power of flexion. In such cases I have found gradual extension, made by means of an angular splint acted upon by a racket-apparatus, the safest means of restoring the utility of the arm. If the ankylosis be osseous, the bones should be resected, a wedge-shaped piece being sawn out, and a false joint allowed to form. 2. The biceps may, by its contraction, occasion a permanent flexion of the arm. This contraction of the biceps may be hysterical, rheumatic, or syphilitic. The syphilitic form may be due to gummatous infiltration of the muscle. When it is hysterical, occurring in young women, it requires the ordinary constitutional treatment of hysteria; should this fail in removing it, extension may be made, under chloroform, and the arm keep in a straight position for a time. When it is syphihtic the ordinary treatment of syphilis may produce a cure. When of organic character, and permanent, section of the tendon and its aponeurosis may be practised, due care being taken of the brachial artery and median nerve. This operation is most safely done by