HERNIA. 820 may be used, but simple water or 0-6 per cent, salt solution sterilized by boil and then cooled to about 100° F. is probably preferable. Cleaning tht peritoneum is a most important part of the operation, and success in many cases depends to a great extent upon the thoroughness with which it is done 10. In closing the wound, the deep stitches, which should be of carbolized silk, must include the peritoneum, so that the serous surfaces shall be brought i closely in contact. The importance of this in securing primary union wass first demonstrated experimentally by Spencer Wells. Deep stitches may . be passed through the whole thickness of the abdominal wall about three- quarters of an inch from the edge of the wound ; both ends of the deep stitches being passed from within the abdomen to avoid any risk of puncturing ■ the intestine. All the deep stitches must be passed before any are tightened,' and care must be taken while this is being done not accidentally to include a i knuckle of intestine between the edges of the wound or under a stitch. After r the wound has been brought together, finer stitches may be put in to bring ; the edge of the skin accurately in contact. Some Surgeons prefer to suture i separately the peritoneum, the muscles, and the skin. Treves sutures the peritoneum with a continuous stitch of fine silk and then brings together thee other layers with interrupted sutures of silkworm gut. 11. If it be thought necessary to drain the abdomen, this is done by a tubet of india-rubber or glass passed into the most dependent part of the cavity and \ brought out at the lowest angle of the wound. The tube must be of such size that all fluid shall escape readily from it. Inefficient drainage is woi-se than none at all. 12. The dressing should be composed of some efficient antiseptic material.. If the wound is completely closed, a thin layer of dressing is sufficient. If it i be drained, a thicker mass must be applied to absorb the discharge. In 3 operations involving the anterior wall of the abdomen, the dressing is most; conveniently kept in place by a broad band of strapping, which at the samee time supports the abdomen. 13. Aftermost abdominal operations the patient should be kept withoutt food for from twenty-four to forty-eight hours, or in some cases even longer. •. A small quantity of iced soda-water or barley-water may be given to allay.T thirst. If the condition of the patient makes it necessary to give food,- chicken-broth or iced milk and soda-water is the best, given in small quantities 6 at intervals of about two hours. Small nutritive enemata are often useful. In operations involving the intestine, opium ig often necessary to prevent peristaltic movement, but it should be avoided as far as possible. If the abdomen become distended with flatus small doses of cajeput and peppermint: may be given ; and much relief can often be afibrded by passing a rectal tube, •. and thus allowing the gas to escape. In all abdominal operations success will greatly depend on minute attention to details. The operation must be carefully considered and planned before- - hand, and everything that can possibly be required must be at hand. At the» end of a severe operation in this region, the patient is often suffering gi-eatly «■ from shock, perhaps hovering between life and death, and a little needless - delay from not having everything ready the moment it is wanted, an unnecessary exposure of the intestines for want of a proper flat sponge to retain them, or a failure in some other minor detail, may just turn the scale against him.