290 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. thick walls, coiitaiuing a sequestrum about the size of a split pea which had been separated from the ilium. She had recently recovered from typhoid fever. Separation of the Dead Bone and Formation of Provisional New Bone.—The separation of the dead bone, or its Exfoliation, is carried out by a process precisely similar to the mode in which a slough in soft tissues is throAvn off, the only diiference being the time required. Rarefying osteitis is set up in the living tissue where it meets the dead. The details of this process have already been described (Vol. I., p. 271). As the result of it a narrow zone of the living bone is destroyed, and its place occupied by soft vascular granulation tissue. This process goes on most rapidly in the most vascular parts : thus we see the granulation layer first completely formed near the periosteum and medullary canal, and gradually advancing from these points till the dead bone is completely separated from the living. If a bone in which a sequestrum is partly separated be macerated so as to destroy the granulation tissue, a groove about one-twentieth to a quarter of an inch wide will be seen. On the living side of this the bone is porous and its Haversian canals enlarged and gradually coalescing. On the dead side the bone retains its normal compact structure. The line between the dead and the living tissue is always extremely irregular. The granulation tissue in contact with the dead bone yields a more or less abundant supply of pus, which, according to B. Cooper, may contain as much as 2| per cent, of phosphate of lime. When the separa- tion is complete the dead bone lies closely surrounded by vascular granulation tissue, and bathed in a certain quantity of pus. If decomposition occur the pus will be increased in quantity in consequence of the initation of the granulation tissue by the septic products. When once the dead bone has been detached by the formation of this hne ot separation, nature takes steps for its ultimate removal from the body. There is no evidence that it, in any circumstances, undergoes absorption to any appreciable extent ; although, as Paget and Billroth remark, that portion which remains in contact with proHferating granulations may undergo a certain amount of diminution. That this may be so is rendered more pro- bable by the fact that the ivory pegs used in the treatment of ununited frac- ture have been found to be partly absorbed after some weeks. The absorption of the margin of the living bone, in the formation of the line of separation, explains the fact that the sequestrum will always be found to be of much smaller size than the cavity in which it is lodged. The ultimate expulsion of the loosened sequestrum is effected by the growth of the granulations below it pushing it off the surface, or out of the cavity m which it hes. When the necrosed bone is perivheral, it will be readily thrown off in this way, although it may for a time be fixed and entangled amongst the granulations When the sequestrum is invagimted within new or old bone, the process 0 elimination is necessarily very slow, and may be difficult or impossiole without '""ThTi^ required for the separation of dead bone varies greatly. When it is supernal and small in size, a few weeks may suffice ; but when he long o flnt bones as the femur, the scapula, or the ihum, are affected, the piocess "ove^^^^^^^^^^ and ma'y terminate in the death of the patient from exhausti^ before it 1' concluded ; the constitution being worn ^^^^ induced by profuse suppuration. Or the disease may fall into a chiomc state,