87 ENDARTERITIS—PERIARTERITIS. next four months. On laying this open a cavity was exposed containing more than a pound of dark clotted blood, and the anterior interosseous artery was found to communicate with it by an opening a quarter of an inch in length. The vessel was successfully ligatured above and below the opening, and the boy recovered. At the time of the operation there was a loud double aortic murmur. Langton and Bowl by have recorded a case in which as a conse- quence of the lodgment of emboli from the valves of the heart in ulcerative endocarditis, aneurisms formed at the bend of the elbow and in the popliteal space, necessitating the ligature of the brachial and femoral arteries. The patient died eight weeks afterwards from the effects of an embolus lodged in the brain. Acute Endarteritis.—Cornil and Eanvier describe under this name an affection of the inner coat, met with chiefly in the aorta, but occasionally also in smaller vessels, especially near wounds. It is characterized, to the naked eye, by prominent patches formed by a swelling of the intima. They are circular or oval in outline, and seldom exceed half an inch in diameter, though both their form and their size may be altered by the coalescence of neighbouring patches. They are pale pink in colour, and semi-transparent or opalescent; in consistence, they are soft and elastic, almost gelatinous. The internal surface has often lost its polish, in consequence of the irregularity of the swelling, but its endothelial covering is usually intact. The middle coat beneath the patch appears usually to be somewhat swollen, and this condi- tion is more marked in the adventitia. Microscopic examination shows that the swelling is due to an accumulation of small cells, either round or slightly irregular in outline, between the fibres of the sub-endothelial connective tissue and the elastic layers of the inner coat. These cells have a distinct nucleus surrounded by a small quantity of protoplasm, and show signs of active growth. Oornil and Eanvier believe they are produced by proliferation of the original cells of the part. The swelling of the external coat is found to be due to the presence of numerous cells of new formation separating the fibres of the connective tissue. The conditions under which acute endarteritis occurs are not clearly deter- mined, but as every intermediate condition between it and the chronic form immediately to be described, is to be met with, sometimes even in the same vessel, it seems to be nothing more than the same process increased in intensity. Periarteritis.—By periarteritis is meant an inflammation commencing in the outer coat or sheath of the artery. If we exclude arteritis by exten- sion from surrounding tissues and traumatic arteritis, periarteritis is a rare disease. Charcot and Bouchard have described such an affection in the vessels of the brain, commencing as an accumulation of small round cells in the perivascular sheaths ; these penetrate the coats from without and lead to softening, frequently followed by the formation of minute aneurisms and final rupture. It is a senile disease, and according to Charcot a common cause of apoplexy. An affection of the arteries of an uncertain nature not causing obliteration has been observed, which, from its giving rise to acute pain and tenderness with some swelHng in the line of the vessel, must be supposed to be in- flammatory. A case of this kind was recorded by J. H. Morgan, in the Transactions of the Clinical Society for 1881. The patient, a man aged 46