982 DISEASES OF THE liECTUM AND ANUS yiscml obstruction and disease, the removal of which may alone be suffir-i, . to ettoct the cure, without the necessity of any local interL-enc Tor^S lb be thought necessary to have recourse to operation, this mu t be secondary to the removal of those conditions that have primaX ocl2 the congestion and dilatation of the ha^morrhoidal vessels. The treat^^ of piles, therefore, must be considered, 1st, as regards the Removal oiZl Constitutional Conditions or Visceral Obstructions that occasion the diseal together with any Local Applications that may be considered necessary aTci 2ndly, with reference to the Operative Procedures that may be required t the removal of the affection. ^ 1. The Constitutional Management of piles necessarily varies consider ably according to the condition of the patient in whom they occur, and tl^ visceral obstruction to which they may be referable. Thus, when they occur m debihtated persons most benefit will be derived from a mild tonic and nutritious plan, at the same time that the bowels are kept regular by some of the aperients that will immediately be mentioned. A small cold water iniec tion after each motion is of the greatest possible service in these cases In the great majority of instances, however, more particularly when occmrin? about the middle period of life, piles are connected with a plethoric state of the system, and congestion of the abdominal viscera. In these circumstances careful attention must be given to the diet, the use of stimulants beiiir^ prohibited, and the quantity of animal food lessened. When piles arise from the pressure of a gravid uterus or other abdominal tumour, little can be done, except, by local palliatives and mild aperients, to moderate the inconvenience attending them. In all cases of piles, but more particularly in those arising from hepatic obstruction, mild aperients are of essential service ; by removing fseculent accu-' mulations, and establishing a free secretion from the intestinal surface tbey tend materially to prevent congestion of the portal system. At the same time, drastic purgatives of all kinds should carefully be avoided. The most useful aperients are the electuaries of senna, sulphur, and castor-oil; one or other of which should be taken regularly twice or thrice a week at bed-time, in as small a quantity as will suflBce to keep the bowels free. In many cases, the confec- tion of senna may advantageously be given in combination with precipitated sulphur and the bitartrate of potash, equal parts of each of these being made into a mass with twice their quantity of the confection and a little syrup; of this electuary a dessert-spoonful may be taken every night or every second night. In many cases the laxative mineral waters, such as Friedrichshall, Hunyadi Janos, or ^sculap, taken on rising in the morning, will be found of great use. Cascara sagrada is often useful ; 20 to 60 drops of the tincture or liquid extract should be given at night, or a corresponding dose in capsules or tabloids. If there be a relaxed condition of the rectum and anus conjoined with the piles, as not unfrequently happens in old as well as in young people, the administration of an electuary composed of equal parts of the confectious . of senna and of black pepper, or of cubebs, will be found very useful. When the liver is much obstructed, the treatment should be specially directed to the relief of this organ ; with this view, a course of Plummer's pill, followed by taraxacum, and, in relaxed constitutions, the mineral acids, will be found especially serviceable, at the same time that the bowels are kept free by gentle aperients.