SUliaiCAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. be situated on a limb, amputation must be performed. In such circiirastancos the hmb may be removed at no great distance above tlie disease ; it not being necessary, as in cases of malignant tumours of the bones, to allow a joint to intervene between the seat of operation and the growth. SlMl'LE TUMOUllS OF THE HkIN. Fibroma.—Circumscribed fibrous tumours are occasionally met with in the skin, but are not common. True Keloid is a fibroid growth not encapsuled, but fusing with the healthy skin at its edges. It usually occurs on the trunk, especially on the front of the chest over the sternum. It forms a flat tumour, raised about a line above the surrounding healthy skin. It is oval, rounded or irregular, and branching or radiating in form. The surface is smooth, and white or pink in tint. It is (irm and elastic in consistence. It arises without known cause and most frequently upon the trunk or extremities in persons otherwise healthy. It is seldom painful, but may give rise to itching and burning sensations. It extends slowly, and although covering a wide area sometimes seems to have undergone a process of contraction like a scar, the surrounding skin being drawn in and wrinkled or puckered. After reaching a certain size it ceases to grow. It has no tendency to ulceration or to degenerative changes. The treat- ment is merely to allay uneasy sensations by sedative applications. If excised, it almost certainly returns in the scar. Closely allied to true keloid are those fibroid growths that have a tendency to sprout up in scars, constituting False Keloid. It was described also by Ca3sar Hawkins under "Warty Tumours of Cicatrices. This morbid condition appears to be simply an abnormal increase in the activity of the development of the cicatricial tissue, which springs up with great luxuriance. These growths are especially apt to foUow the irregular cicatrization of burns, more particularly in children. I have, however, seen them in the adult, occasioned both in this way and by the irritation of a blister, and they have been known to form in the scars of leech-bites as well as in the lesions of acne and other skin eruptions. The warty cicatricial tissue develops chiefly on the chest and neck, and is commonly attended with much itching and tingling, often of a most distressing character. It is very vascular, bleeding freely when incised. The Treatment of these growths is not satisfactory. As a rule, they may safely be left alone. If they cause any annoyance the only treatment is to remove them with the knife if they are so situated as to make this possible, but most commonly the new scar assumes the same unhealthy condition. Morphoea or Circumscribed Scleroderma is another condition in some respects resembling keloid. It is sometimes spoken of as Addison's Keloid. In this disease the skin is thickened and indurated in patches or bands, most commonly upon the trunk, as between the breasts. The patches are usually slightly raised above the surface, smooth, and sometimes of ivory-like white- ness. Atrophic changes may occur in the diseased skin, causing some contrac- tion. The disease is apparently of a chronic inflammatory character; its cause is doubtful, although in some cases it has probably resulted from local irritation. Treatment can do little, if anything, for it, but spontaneous recovery may occur. The disease known as MoUuscum Fibrosum, in which enormous pendulous tumours but tool s composed of hypertrophied skin and subcutaneous tissue form on the ks, thighs, or other parts, has already been described (Vol. I., p. 1019)