1038 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. Screaming after micturition is common ; the irritation of the stone often leads to incontinence at niglit, and frequent wetting of the clotlies during tiie day often causing cxcoi'iation of the thighs. Constant handling of the penis, aiid pulling of the foreskin till it seems in some cases to be actually lengthened, are also important signs. AVith these, straining, with prolapse of the rectum during micturition, is usually present, and sudden stoppage of the stream during micturition is not uncommon. Whenever a child presents these syrap- toms, he should at once be sounded. If no stone be found, the child must be examined for worms, the irritation of which may give rise to symptoms closely resembling those of stone. A tight phimosis will also cause symptoms distin- guishable from stone only by sounding. Encysted Calculus.—When a stone is PMcysted, those symptoms that depend upon its being loose and rolling about in the bladder are necessarily absent: thus there is no stoppage of the urine, this fluid is seldom bloody, and the pain is not materially increased by jolts and rough movement; though there are weight and pain in the usual situations, and increased frequency of micturition from the pressure and irritation of the calculus. Physical Diagnosis op Stone.—The existence of stone is finally deter- mined by Sounding the Bladder. A Sound is a solid steel instrument shaped like a catheter, but shorter in the curve (Fig. 848), so that it may thoroughly explore all parts of the Fig. 84S.—Sound for Examining Bladder. bladder, especially those behind the prostate. It should have a wide and smooth steel handle, and be slightly bulbous. Thompson prefers a hollow sound with a round handle, and a short beak bent at a sharp curve like a lithotrite. The operation of sounding is conducted as follows : The patient lies upon his back with his buttocks well raised on a pillow ; a full-sized sound, well-oiled and warmed, is then passed into the bladder, which should, if the patient can retain it, be allowed to contain three or four ounces of urine. The Surgeon then, using his left hand or crossing over to the patient's right side, whichever he finds most convenient, carefully directs the beak of the instrument towards the neck of the bladder, turning it from right to left over the whole of that region ; he next draws it forward on one side as far as the neck, tapping, as it were, gently with its beak ; he repeats the same manoeuvre on the other side ; and, lastly, by raising the handle directs the end of the instrument into the lower fundus, which he carefully explores. Usually the stone is readily detected by these manoeuvres, and its position in the bladder will often be dependent upon, and may to a certain extent be taken as an approximative indication of, its size. Thus, when moderately laro-e, it will usually be found lying to one side, most generally the right, of the"neck of the bladder ; when small, it will be placed towards the fundus, near the orifice of one or other ureter. These then are the situations m which the Surgeon should first seek for a stone, and in which he will generally find it when present. Should it not be met with there, the chances are,