256 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. ordinary appeararico of the cells always found immediately preceding the formation of new bone, the so-called osteoblasts ; they are granular and somewhat angular in outline. In adult bone these are represented by flattened cells, but they readily resume the form of osteoblasts under slight degrees of stimuhition. The periosteum is extremely vascular, the vessels breaking up in it and entering the Haversian canals of the bone beneath, and numerous nerves may be traced in its structure. The effects of this structure in modifying the process of inflammation are obvious. The extreme vascu- larity of the membrane favours exudation, ,and the inflammatory products accumulate most abundantly in the deeper layers, and between them and the bone, beneath the denser fibrous layer. They penetrate also along the vessels into the Plaversian canals. Owing to the abundant nervous supply and to the tension caused by the unyielding nature of the superficial layers of the periosteum, inflammatory exudation is often accompanied by very severe pain. Should the inflammation terminate in suppuration the vessels passing from the periosteum to the bone are destroyed, and death of a portion of the compact tissue may result. This is, however, by no means a necessary consequence, especially if the periosteum be separated only to a small extent, as the blood supply from the medulla is sufficient to maintain the vitality of the denuded bone. Sloughing of the periosteum as a result of inflammation is a somewhat rare occurrence owing to the abundant vascularity of that structm*e. Lastly, new bone is formed with great readiness in all chronic inflammatory processes in the periosteum, the mode in which it is developed being the same as in jshysiological growth, though wanting in regularity. The following are the names given to the various inflammatory processes occurring in the periosteum :—(1.) Simple Acute Periostitis ; (2.) Suppura- tive Periostitis, a. Simple and Locahzed, l. Infective and Diffuse ; (3.) Chronic Periostitis, a. Osteoplastic, J). Gummatous, c. Tuberculous. 1. Simple Acute Periostitis.—This is most commonly the result of injury. The membrane is redder and thicker than natural. It separates easily, and as it is stripped off tine threads are sen passing from it into the bone ; these are the vessels wh ch are loosened by the exudation into the Haversian canals, and consequently draw out more readily. On section the swollen membrane presents a somewhat gelatinous appearance, due to the infiltration of its structure with the inflammatory exudation ; this is most marked in the deeper layers next the bone. Microscopic examination shows only the ordinary appearances of inflammation—dilatation of the vessels and infiltration of the fibrous tissue, especially its deeper layers with small round cells. Simple acute periostitis may end in resolution with a perfect return to the normal condition, or it may pass on to suppuration, but more commonly it becomes chronic and assumes the osteoplastic form. Suppurative Periostitis, (a) Simple Acute Periostitis, resulting from injury occasionally terminates in suppuration. The pus forms between the membrane and the bone, and slowly perforates the fibrous layer. It shows but httle tendency to extend beneath the periosteum or to separate it widely from the bone. It may be followed by death of the exposed portion of the compact tissue, but, as before stated, this is by no means necessary. {!)) Infective Inflammation of the Periosteum is a much more serious affection. It occurs chiefly, if not exclusively, in young subjects. It termi- nates very early in suppuration and the pus difluses itself widely, stripping