439 ANKYLOSIS OF THE HIP. The result of my own experience is, that the mortality directly referable to the operation itself is but small. 2. The Utility of the Limb after excision has already been partly considered (see p. 425). After a successful operation performed in the late stages the shortening- usually amounts to two or three inches. The limb is well- nourished, straight, firm, and allows easy and rapid progression. The anky- losis is fibrous, not osseous. The patient is thus enabled to flex the thigh on the pelvis, and to adduct it; but, just as in cases that have undergone a natural cure, the power of external rotation and of abduction is lost, the mobility of the lumbar spine compensating for the loss of these movements. The best available evidence as to the utility of the limb after excision in the earlier stages of suppuration is afforded by a study of sixteen completed cases in Pollard's list already referred to. Of these, two may be excluded as both hips were excised, and another which was not seen later than a year after the operation. In four cases three years or more had passed before excision was per- formed ; the real shortening varied from 1^ to 3| inches ; three walked well, and one " not well." In the remaining nine eases the average time which had elapsed between the onset of the disease and the operation was 15i months ; the shortening, after periods varying between twenty-two months and five years and a half after the operation was from 1 to 2^ inches (average 1| inch) ; in 6 there was more or less movement, and in 3 ankylosis ; and in 2 there was permanent flexion ; 3 walked well on the sole, 3 walked well on the toes, 1 walked fairly well, 1 walked well with a stick, and 1 preferred to use a stick but could walk well without it. More evidence of this kind is required before the question of the expediency of performing excision as an operation of choice in suppurating cases can be definitively decided. ANKYLOSIS OF THE HIP. • Ankylosis of the Hip-joint, following inflammation, diflPers in its com- pleteness and in the position of the limb. Thus, it may be fibrous or osseous : or the Hmb in either of these cases may be extended, flexed or adducted. The most important point is the direction of the limb. When the joint is completely ankylosed with the limb fully extended and straight, nothing can be done to improve the patient's condition. The lumbar spine will acquire in- creased mobility, especially in a rotatory direction, and the patient will stand and walk with ease. The chief difficulty arising from the position of the limb will occur in going up stairs and in sitting. If, however, the ankylosis be fibrous, even though the limb be straight, the freedom of movement may be much increased, and any faulty direction as to abduction or adduction may be in a great measure remedied, by douches, friction, pressure, or even forcible movement, and occasionally by the sub- cutaneous section of tense bands of fascia, or of tendinous and muscular structures about the anterior superior spine of the ilium. If, unfortunately, the limb have become ankylosed in the flexed position, means must be adopted to straighten it ; and this must be done whether the anyklosis be fibrous or osseous. For here the deformity and inutility of the limb are always considerable ; and increasingly so, the more the ankylosis approaches to a right angle.