CARIES OF THE SPINE. 481 of the loss of substance and the part of the spine afiFected. In the cervical and lumbar regions the natural curve having its convexity forwards is at first straightened out, angular projection of the spines occurring only in very extreme cases. The greater the number of vertebrae affected the more obtuse will the angle be. When one vertebra is alone or chiefly diseased, three spinous processes will project to form the angle, that of the diseased vertebra being the apex. If two or three be diseased, five spinous processes usually enter into the formation of the angle of excurvation, and then the whole of this portion of the column will be displaced backwards, giving a thickened and broadened base to the excurvation in the lateral direction. In the dorsal region, if a single vertebra is diseased, the projection is usually very marked and sharp as the bending forward of the vertebra turns the long oblique spine almost directly backwards, forming a sharp prominence. In the lumbar Fig. 604.—Natural Curve of Spine. Pig. 605.—First early Cliange of Curve in Angular Curva- ture. Fig. 606.—Change of Curve of Spine in Advanced Stage of Angular Curva- ture. region, where the spines are short and point directly backwards, the projection is more rounded. That the weight of the upper part of the body is not the sole element concerned in the production of the angular deformity is sufficiently proved by the fact that it is not altogether prevented by keeping, the patient throughout in the recumbent position. Under these circumstances, curvature is still produced by the tonic contraction of the various muscles which pass longitu- dinally from one part of the spine to another. The part played by the muscles m this respect has been insisted upon by Lannelongue and Cheyne, and, as we shall see, has an important bearing upon the mode of treatment adopted in the early stages of spinal disease. It very rarely happens that the cord is pressed upon by the displaced bones, though it may be affected secondarily by disease of the membranes, or by the pressure of inflammatory products outside them (see Slow Compression of the Cord, p. 48.5). ^ The most common seat of caries of the spine is the lower dorsal or the junctuni of the dorsal and lumbar regions. It is not uncommon in the middle VOL. II,