^^"^ I'BMORAL HERNIA. usually be effected by ascertaining the relation that the neck of the sa. h . this cord. When, however, a small femoral hernia in a fat man ris f so as to lie over Poupart's ligament, it resembles v it clo Xa Tnr ^'"'7^'' ujgamal hernia ; but its characters may be determS by tt « J finger up the inguinal canal, which will be found to be free and Jhr. t ' can be felt only through its posterior and inferior wdl L tl' emal Th' fnlf H?rh '''' hernia V dt^^? mto the labium and may thus be distinguished from the femoral, which m t^ie upper and inner part of the thigh. In both sexes the rela ion o l o neck of the sac_ to the spine of the pubes, which can always be fdt L attest subjects, is most _ important. In femoral hernia the spine to inner, in inguinal hernia to the outer side of the protrusion; and L ^ a patient happen to be the subject of both inguiial and femora he n on the same side, the spine would be. felt between the two. After reduZ a femoral hernia, the finger can sometimes be pushed into the inf^H^' aper ure of the crura canal, when the situation and sharp outline of falciform process will determine the nature of the opening through which the protrusion has occurred. o t, oi. uie The diseases occurring in the groin, with which femoral hernia may most readily be confounded are-1. Enlarged Lymphatic Glands in this situation From these It may be distinguished by the absence of impulse in the glandular tumour and by the simultaneous enlargement of several glands A small strangulated hernia may, however, co-exist with these ; beincr covered in bv them. When this is the case, and the local signs of hernia are obscure whilst the symptoms of strangulation continue, an incision should be made into the part, and the dissection carefully carried through and undsrneath the glands with the view of determining whether the hernia exist or not. 2 4 small Fatty Growth has been met with in the crural canal, closely simulating a hernia. The want (/f impulse on coughing, together with the doughy character of the tumour, will enable the Surgeon to distinguish it from hernia. Such a fatty mass may, however, consist of the thickened subserous tissue surrounding a small hernial sac. ' .8. Psoas Abscess, as it leaves the abdomen external to the vessels, can rarely be confounded with hernia. It may be further distinguished by its fluctuating feel, by its soft yet semi-el'asfcio characi^er, and by the general history of the case. The impulse on coughing, which is very distinct in the abscess, is commonly more forcible and direct than that of a hernia ; and although the purulent collection may in many cases be squeezed back into the abdomen when the patient lies down, yet it returns without a gurgle, and without that distinct slip which accompanies the reduction of a hernia. 4. Varix of the .Sapliena Vein is in some danger of being confounded with hernia. It may, however, be distinguished from this by the impulse in it being less distinct than in hernia, and by the enlargement of the lower part of the vein being marked in the varix, but not existing in the rupture. Femoral hernia most commonly occurs in women, and very seldom under the age of twenty ; differing in both these respects from the inguinal rupture. Astley Cooper states that he had seen only three cases under the above age. It very seldom becomes strangulated at an early period of life. I have had under my care a girl of nineteen with femoral hernia, in whom strangulation