DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. 6g2 time the means of gagging the mouth and of arresting the haemorrhage during the operation being more perfect, the ecraseur is rarely used, the tongue being much more frequently removed with scissors in the way first recommended by Whitehead. Excision by the Ecraseur has been carried out in various ways, but the following method, advocated by Morrant IJaker, is the only one likely to bo employed at the present day. The gag having been introduced, a stout thread is passed through each side of the tongue about one inch behind the tip. The Surgeon holding one thread and an assistant the other, tlie mucous membrane and part of the muscular substance of the tongue are divided exactly in the middle line with a probe-pointed bistoury. This incision extends well back beyond the level of the growth, and in front it completely divides the tip. If made accurately in the middle line this incision is almost bloodless. The separation of the two halves is completed with the forefingers. Next, draw- ing forward the diseased half of the tongue with the thread, the operator snips through with scissors its attachments to the lower jaw and also the mucous membrane along the floor of the mouth, keeping close to the jaw. With the finger the tongue can be separated freely from the floor of the mouth to a level at least an inch behind the growth where the tongue is transfixed with two Fig. 747.—Wire Ecraseur for Ecmoval of Tongue. blunt needles. The loop of the ecraseur is now passed around the separated half of the tongue behind the needles. By gradually tightening the ecraseur the division is completed, the tendency of the loop to shp forwards being prevented by the needles. The last strand of tissue left in the ecraseur usually includes the lingual artery, and this, Baker suggests, should be ligatured. If necessary the other half of the tongue may now be removed in the same way. In removing the tongue with the ecraseur the wire instrument (Fig. 747) is far preferable to that which divides with a chain. The form of wii-e best suited to the instrument is strong piano-wire. It will be found better to attach one end only to the movable part of the instrument, the other being twisted round the handle, as in the figure. It then cuts by a slow sawing movement and divides the vessels more surely. Morrant Baker prefers an ecraseur with a loop of thick whipcord. In any case the instrument should be worked very slowly. In this as in all other methods of removing the tongue, it must be remem- bered that if the attachments of the genio-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossus muscles have been completely divided there is a tendency for the stump of the tongue to fall backwards into the pharynx, and thus, if it be of sufficient size, to cause asphyxia. This must be guarded against by passing a thread through it and drawing it forwards. If necessary the thread must be attached to the teetu or dravvn forwards and fixed to the cheek by plaster. Middeldorpf's galvanic cautery was much used a few years ago in operations