496 DISEASES OF THE SPIKE. with water sterilized by boiling and scraped with a Volkmann's spoon or Barker's Hushing curette. In the case of a psoas abscess care must be taken in treatin • those parts of the cavity which lie close to the periosteum. Small sponges uu long holders are also useful for the removal of the tuberculous material. Finally, after drying the cavity as thoroughly as possible, an ounce of 10 p< r cent, iodoform emulsion is introduced and the incision closed by suture . including any muscular layers which have been divided. A wool dressiii: should be so arranged as to obliterate the cavity of the abscess as thorouglih as possible. After this treatment, more or less serous exudation necessarily occurs inf-. the remaining cavity, but in many cases it is quickly absorbed. If, howevei. the fluid increase, it should be withdrawn by an aspirator, and often it will n(.i reaccumulate. Incases in which suppuration continues the same treatment may sometimes be repeated with success, but drainage will usually l;.,- required. Drainage of these large abscesses should, as far as possible, be avoided, for it is attended with many risks and inconveniences. Although excellent results have been obtained by aseptic drainage, the treatment involves repeated dressings, and a long period of confinement to the recumbent position. The difficulty of ensuring asepsis is, however, great, for the patients are often children, the discharge profuse, and the opening in many cases necessarily in an inconvenient position. The patient is thus exposed to the risk of septic poisoning and hectic, with persistent and profuse suppuration kept up hx putrefactive changes occurring in the pus. In certain cases, however, drainage is unavoidable, and should be resorted to if the abscess is already on the-point of bursting, or if other methods have been tried without success. The drainage must be free, and the opening should be made in a dependent position, and as far as possible from sources of contamination. In draining a psoas abscess the point usually selected is above the outer part of Poupart's ligament; an opening at the inner side of the thigh is rarely efficient, owing to the narrowness of the sac of the abscess where it passes beneath the femoral vessels, and is very unfavourably placed for maintaining asepsis. If the drainage ii'om the anterior opening into a psoas abscess is imperfect a counter-opening behind is often most useful. This may be made at the outer edge of the erector spinas, or, if the abscess occupies the iliac fossa just above the iliac crest opposite the interval between the external oblique and the latissimus dorsi. In some cases of caries of the lower dorsal or lumbar vertebrae with psoas abscess, the incision may conveniently be made in the loin, as suggested by F. Treves, and then in addition to obtaining very direct drainage it may be possible to examine the diseased vertebrje with the finger. A vertical incision is made in the space between the last rib and the ilium immediately internal to the outer edge of the erector spinas; this muscle is exposed and drawn towards the middle line, and the quadratus lumborum may then be cut through close to the transverse processes. The finger may now be thrust inwards along the anterior surface of a transverse process, so as to avoid the situation of the lumbar arteries. The tense sac of the abscess may then be felt. It is best opened by thrusting a pair of polypus forceps through its wall and expanding the blades. As soon as the pus flows, the finger may follow the forceps and fed for sequestra. This mode of opening has now been frequently adopted