7o6 DISEASES OF THE TONSILS vulsellum, and indeed, in some guillotines a hook is attached, which draws forwards the tonsil before it is sliced off. In operating on a child t ! patient should be held on the knees of an assistant, who controls the legs'wiih his own, steadies the head and presses the left tonsil inwards wliilst the sur geon IS removing it. It is quicker and easier to use a separate guillotine for each tonsil. Should a guillotine not be at hand, the tonsil mav be removed by seizing it with a vulsellum, drawing it inwards, and then taking off a slice with a probe-pointed bistoury, tlie base of the blade of which should be wrapped I'ound with a piece of plaster, to prevent its wounding the tongue In excising the tonsil in this way, care must be taken to cut from below upwards and inwards towards the mesial line, and on no account to turn the edge of tlie knife outwards, lest serious bleeding occur. In some cases the tonsil, although considerably enlarged, projects little into the fauces, and ig thus difficult to remove with the guillotine or bistoury. Under these circum- stances Bilton Pollard has shown that enucleation may be practised; the mucous membrane is torn through with the finger-nail between the tonsil and the posterior pillar of the fauces, and then the tonsil itself is peeled off the wall of the pharynx. For three days after the operation the food should be soft and not too hot. The hgemorrhage that follows excision of the tonsil is usually very trifling, but it has been known to prove fatal. In the event of severe bleeding pressure should at once be applied by one finger in the mouth and another externally below the angle of the jaw. This is often the only treatment required, but if on removing the pressure the haemorrhage continues and is seen by the aid of a good light to proceed from a definite spot, an attempt must be made to seize this in forcipressure forceps and apply a ligature. If there be only free oozing which pressure fails to arrest, styptics may be tried. A small pledget of lint soaked in the strong solution of perchloride of iron may be firmly pressed on the bleeding surface, or a styptic paste recommended by Mark Hovell may be used (gallic acid, one part; tannic acid, three parts ; sufficient water to form a stiff paste). In desperate cases in which all other means have failed, ligature of the external carotid artery is a last resource. There is no reason to expose the patient to the additional risks of ligaturing the common trunk, for the hsemorrhage occurs from tonsillar branches and probably never fi'om the internal carotid. Malignant Tumours of the Tonsil.—Squamous carcinoma, lympho- sarcoma, and round-celled sarcoma are the malignant growths most commonly met with in the tonsil and its immediate neighbourhood. Squamous Car-