DEAINING THE VENTRICLES. 57^ Buro-icd interference should be attempted. Pressure may be applied if the tnmom- is small In one instance Paget used injection of lodme with " . In a^lei case, where sloughing of a portion of the tumoi. was Lking place, Annandale applied a ligature to the peduncle and removed he tumonrf the child recovering completely in spite of an attack of measle. Horsley has recorded a case which he cured by electrolysis. Simple anenino-oceles have been successfully excised, and in recent years the operation .has been extended, in several cases with success, to encephalocele. ' Tapping and Draining the Ventricles of the Brain.-The operation of tapping the ventricles has occasionally been performed m chronic hydro- cephalus but so far without much benefit. It is sometimes conjoined with pressure by means of an elastic bandage. It is applicable only to those cases in which, from the early age of the child, or the imperfect ossification of the j distended skull, it is possible to compress the head by a moderate degree of i! pressure. The operation is best performed by means of the aspirator. A «fine needle may be pushed through the anterior fontanelle or the coronal ' suture, avoiding the middle line for fear of wounding the longitudinal smus. The instrument should be directed away from the middle line so as to penetrate the lateral ventricle, and thus to evacuate a portion of the contained fluid. There should be no vacuum in the needle when it is introduced, but when it has penetrated deeply enough to reach the ventricle, the piston of the aspirator may be slowly raised, so as to withdraw the fluid gradually, and not , to disturb the circulation through the brain. After a moderate quantity of fluid has been withdrawn, the small aperture should be closed with a strip of plaster, and an elastic bandage should be applied round the head so as to compress and to confine the bones. . In 1881 Wernicke suggested that in cases of hydrocephalus better results might be obtained by draining the lateral ventricles by a tube introduced through a trephine opening. This suggestion has been put into practice by Keen, Broca, Mayo Robson, and others. In Keen's first case, a boy four years of age, the hydrocephalus proved to be secondary to a tumour of the cerebellum. The trephine was applied at a point an inch and a quarter above, I and the same distance behind the left external auditory meatus ; the ventricle \ was reached with a hollow needle and a horse-hair drain inserted. Subse- quently the operation was repeated on the opposite side. Death occurred on the forty-fifth day, and the autopsy revealed a sarcomatous tumour in the cerebellum. In Broca's case, a hydrocephalic idiot aged four years, the operation was followed by recovery with considerable improvement in the mental condition. In cases in which hydrocephalus develops after the occurrence of symptoms of basic meningitis, attempts have been made to relieve the condition by draining the subarachnoid space in the occipital region—either in the middle line between the external occipital protuberance and the foramen magnum or through the cerebellar fossa. The results, however, appear to have been uniformly unfavourable. Lastly, it may be mentioned that during the last few years several attempts have been made to bring tuberculous meningitis within the range of surgical interference. The hope has indeed been expressed that by applying drainnge to these cases, not only might the immediate effects of the increased intra- cranial pressure be relieved, but also that the disease might be arrested in a