NEURALGIA OF THE TESTICLE. 1233 lails to prevent the testicle being gradually drawn upwards again. Another plan consists in attaching a silk suture to the testicle, passing the two ends out through the bottom of the scrotum, and knotting them over a pad ot -auze mcluded in the dressing, or, as Watson Cheyne has suggested, to a light \vire frame which fits round the scrotum. After about ten days the projecting part of the silk is cut off. Horsley has obtained good results by loosely fixing I he upper end of the testicle by means of a silk suture to the periosteum rovering the ramus of the pubes. The silk is passed with a curved needle on a handle, care being taken not to wound the crus penis. In any case the external abdominal-ring must be sufiiciently closed with sutures. If the testicle lies in the perinteum it can usually be transplanted into the scrotum without great difficulty. It must be dissected out, and left attached hy the cord only. An incision is then made into the scrotum, the testicle placed in its proper position, and secured by a fine stitch. The treatment of retained testis complicated with inguinal hernia has already been considered at p. 87-4. Retroversion of the Testicle is not very uncommon. The organ is completely turned round, so that the epididymis is placed in front. In a case of this kind which I had an opportunity of examining after death the epididymis and vas deferens were considerably larger than natural. If a hydrocele form in such a case, it will be seated behind the testis. NEUBALGIA OF THE TESTIS. A painful or irritable condition of the testicle may occur without any actual disease of the organ ; the pain being seated either in the epididymis, which is the part naturally the most tender, in the body of the testis, or extending along the cord to the loins and groins. It is usually paroxysmal, and is accompanied by great tenderness, and commonly by some fulness of the organ, which feels soft and flaccid; but it is difficult to make a proper examination, on account of the agony that is induced, by touching the part. This disease occurs chiefly in young men of a nervous temperament, and is frequently associated with great mental despondency, sometimes amounting to a suicidal tendency. The Causes are obscure : in many cases the disease appears to be connected with a neuralgic temperament, but in others it is associated with some dyspeptic disorder, or may be dependent upon local irritation; thus, external piles, or the pressure of a varicocele, will often give rise to it. In middle-aged or elderly men it is often gouty, most commonly affecting the left testicle. The disease is usually of a very chronic character. In some instances, however, it ceases spontaneously, after having lasted for weeks or months. Treatment.—When the neuralgia is dependent upon constitutional causes the treatment is extremely unsatisfactory. The administration of tonics, such as iron, zinc, or quinine, the local application of sedatives, as of atropire •jintment or the tincture of aconite, may be of service. In other cases, cold l)athing or douching will be beneficial; and, in all, keeping the part supported with a suspensory bandage will be advantageous. When it is due to gout the patient must be treated for that condition. In the event of there being any lf)cal irritation, that should be removed : thus, I have known the disease to VOL. II. 4 K