CAUSES 01 ANEURISM. 101 CHAPTEE XLIII. ANEURISM. - An Aneurism is a tumour, resulting from dilatation of the whole or a portion of the coats of an artery caused by the pressure of the contained blood, and communicating with the interior of the vessel. Traumatic aneurisms have already been described (Yol. I., p. 464). Spontaneous aneurisms are alone considered in the j)resent chapter. Causes.—The causes of aneurism are divisible into predisposing and exciting. Aneurism is Predisposed to by any affection of the arterial coats that lessens their elasticity and resisting power. "When an artery has under- gone any of the degenerative or chronic inflammatory changes described in the last chapter, it becomes less able to recover during the diastole from the dis- tension occurring during the systolic impulse, and thus either complete or partial dilatation takes place. Calcification prevents rather than favours dilatation of the artery, by hardening the coats and converting them into rigid inelastic tubes ; but atheroma softens them, and causes yielding of that portion of the vessel affected by it. I have frequently observed that the whole of an artery might be healthy except at one part, where there was an athero- matous patch, and there the vessel was dilated; or that the whole of its coats might be calcified, except at one spot, where softening had taken place, and where consequently they had yielded under the outward pressure of the contained blood. As anenrism, therefore, may be looked upon as one of the sequences of chronic endarteritis, the predisposing causes of the one condition must neces- sarily be the same as those of the other. Hence we find that age, gout, and syphilis influence the occurrence of the aneurismal disease by laying its founda- tions in the development of atheroma. _ Age.—Aneurisms are most frequently met with during the middle period of life—at that age, indeed, when the arteries have already commenced to lose their elasticity, in consequence of degenerative changes," whilst, at the same time, the heart has not lost any of its force, or the general muscular svstem its vigour. This disease is excessively rare before puberty, yet is occasionaUy met with at early periods of life : thus Syme mentions a case of popliteal aneurism in a boy of seven, Hodgson had a preparation of a carotid aneurism in a girl of ten, and Schmidt records a case of spontaneous aneurism of the radial artery m an infant eight weeks old. R. W. Parker, in a most valuable paper on aneurisms m young subjects read before the Medico-Chirurgical Society in 1883, states that, after a careful search in medical literature, he has found only fifteen cases of spontaneous aneurism recorded as occurring under the ao-e of twenty, including a case of his own of inguinal aneurism in a boy aged twelve years and eight months. In eight of the fifteen cases there was disease of the va ves of the heart, in five the state of the heart was not recorded, and in two only was it stated to be healthy.