CARIES OF SPINE: COMPRESSION PARAPLEGIA. 485 distance downwards between the deep and superficial muscles of the calf following the main vessels. I have seen an abscess, which took its origin in disease of the dorsal vertebrae, opened by the side of the tendo Achillis (Fig. 93, Vol. I.). A psoas abscess when fully developed usually consists of four parts : a narrow track in the upper part of the psoas muscle, a wide expansion in the iliac fossa, a second narrow part extending under Poupart's ligament and the femoral vessels, and a large cavity on the inner side of the thigh. The difficulty of properly draining such a cavity by an opening in the thigh only is evident. In some cases the abscess may follow both psoas muscles, and project in each groin at the same time. As in the dorsal region, the abscess may pass backwards instead of down- wards, and point in the loin, forming a lutnbar abscess. More rarely it may . burrow amongst the layers of the abdominal muscles and point in front. In disease of the lower lumbar vertebrae and upper part of the sacrum the pus may get beneath the fascia covering the pyriformis, and then following the nerves, may point in the buttock beneath the gluteus maximus, or it may extend downwards to the ischio-rectal fossa. In all spinal abscesses small sequestra derived from the diseased vertebras are not uncommonly found in the pus. In the patient from whom Fig. 607 was taken several fragments of bone thus came away from an abscess that was opened in the fore part of the thigh. Much curdy matter is usually present, making it impossible in many cases to empty the sac by aspiration. The true source of origin of these abscesses may usually be determined by an examination of the spine, and by feeling an impulse on coughing communicated to their extreme points of pre- sentation. In psoas abscess the attitude of the patient is often characteristic. He stands leaning a little forwards with the thigh of the aflFected side slightly flexed and adducted in order to relax the affected muscle. Forced extension is accompanied by pain and aching of the back. The attitude and pain may thus resemble that of disease of the hip-joint. General oedema of the limb may occasionally arise from a psoas abscess after it has reached the inner side of the thigh. In rare cases after opening, if septic inflammation follows, the abscess cavity may ulcerate into the hip-joint, causing acute and rapidly destructive arthritis. Slow Compression of the Cord in Spinal Disease.—Compression Paraplegia.—As before stated, pressure upon the spinal cord is very rarely the direct result of displacement of the vertebrae in caries of the spine. In fact it may occur in cases in which there is no deformity, and again recovery very commonly takes place while the angular curvature remains unchanged or 18 even increasing. The true pathology of this complication was first pointed out by Michaud, and his observations have been fully confirmed by Charcot and others. In rare cases the pressure may be due to the formation of a chrome abscess pushing back the posterior common ligament against the cord. Such an abscess may gradually reach the surface, and rapid relief of pressure wiU follow, when it is opened externally. Far more commonly, however, tho ligament itself is invaded by tuberculous granulation-tissue, and at last per- forated, or the abscess projects backwards on one or both sides of the ligament The external surface of the dura mater is then affected, and a fungating t)utton-like mass of tuberculous granulation-tissue forms upon it by which the cord is compressed (Fig. 608). The condition was described by Charcot as a kind of external caseous pachymeningitis." The inner surface of the dura