303 RICKETS: PliOGRESS AND PROGNOSIS. an excess of phosphate of lime, but this is not the result of softening of the bones, but evidence of imperfect assimilation. The changes olsei-ved in the bones appear early in the disease. They consist of enlargement of the articular ends, most marked at the points of junction of the shaft with the epiphyses ; in consequence of which the joints appear to be swollen. The enlargement is also especially marked at the junction of the ribs with their cartilages, which form prominent rounded swellings, felt and sometimes clearly seen through the skin, giving rise to the appearance which has been termed the " rickety rosary." At a later period, owing to the softness of their structure, the bones bend, giving rise to various charac- teristic deformities. Humphry and Langenbeck have called attention to the want of gi'owth in length often observed in rickets. Humphry says that the humerus and femur are about one-fourth shorter in rickety subjects than in healthy individuals of the same age. The most important deformities arising in different parts are the following :—The head early appears large, the fore- head being especially protuberant, and the face small. The fontanelles, especially the anterior, are very slow in closing ; the bones of the skull may be thickened, forming prominent ridges on each side of the sutures, though occasionally in the occipital region they are unduly thin. The sjjine in young children usually presents one long curve backwards from the lower cervical region to the coccyx, with a compensating curve forwards in the neck. In older children there may be merely exaggeration of the normal curves. The chest presents very characteristic deformities : the sternum projects somewhat for- wards, with a deep depression on each side caused by the sinking-in of the soft newly-formed part of the ribs at their anterior extremities. The deformity is commonly termed " pigeon-breast." The depression is less on the left side, as the ribs are supported by the heart. The lower ribs are pushed outwards by the abdominal viscera. The angles of the ribs are less obtuse than natural. The clavicles show merely an increase of the normal curves. The humerus is usually bent outwards at the insertion of the deltoid ; the bones of the forearm are bent outwards in the lower third. The pelvis is narrowed from before backwards, more especially if the deformity commences before the child has learned to walk. The femur presents a single long curve forwards. The tibia and fbula are bent forwards and outwards or forwards only in their lower thirds. The deformities here mentioned are the most common, but other varieties may be met with. As the child grows older it frequently becomes knock-kneed or bow-le^ffed. Dentition is usually much delayed. This is an important symptom, and it is, therefore, necessary to remember the dates at which the teeth should appear. This may be easily done by the following formula, which is accurate enough for clinical purposes. Taking the teeth in anatomical order, commencing with the central incisor, they appear at the following dates in months • 7 9 18, 12, 24. ^ , > Progress and Prognosis.—Under proper treatment rickets can usually be cured. The bones then rapidly become solid and firm, and remain per- manently fixed in their abnormal shape. The concavities of the curves become partly filled up to give the bone the necessary strength, while absorption takes place laterally to preserve lightness. This is often very marked m the femur, the antero-posterior diameter of which may be double the transverse. After recovery from rickets there is frequently early union