168 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. snbc avian, dilated beyond their normal size in consequence of the task of supplying the right side of the neck, face, head, and brain being principally thrown upon them. This current through the proximal end of the sub- claviau increased as it will have been by the whole of that blood which is destined to supply the place of that which should pass by the carotid, will place the sac in nearly the same condition as it was before the ligature ; and will consequently, for the reason that has already been given, be too powerful for a cure to take place in the course of its stream. It now only remains ibr us to consider the simultaneous ligature of both vessels. In reasoning upon the simultaneous ligature of the two vessels, we must consider two points : 1. In what condition do we place the sac? 2. Is the danger of the patient much increased ? So far as the sac is concerned, it is impossible to place it in a better condition for the deposit of laminated fibrin ; two-thirds of the blood flowing through It being arrested, and only that traversing it which is destined for the supply of_ the branches of the subclavian. It is by no means improbable that even this stream may be too large and forcible to allow the process of occlusion to take place, yet it is impossible further to diminish it; and if the aneurism be sacculated, and project from one side of the innominate artery, particularly to its mternal or mesial aspect, it ie by no means impossible that it may be sufficiently removed from the stream to allow consolidation of its contents. Does it add to the danger of the patient to hgature these two vessels simultaneously rather than separately ? I think not. If the risk of a double operation is to be incurred, I cannot think that it would be positively increased by the two being performed at once, instead of with an interval between them ; the whole of the vessels that serve to maintain the collateral circulation in the head and upper extremity being left without interference. And the result that has followed the limited number of these operations confirms this opinion, for we find that the patients recovered from the operations in twenty- two out of thirty-four cases. The result of these twenty-two cases, so far as the aneurism itself was con- cerned, was not altogether unsatisfactory when the otherwise hopeless nature of the disease is taken into consideration. In twelve the patient derived great and unmistakeable benefit, and in the remaining ten there is no reason to believe that the operation hastened death. So far, then, as actual results go, it is evident that the chances are decidedly against the patient's deriving any benefit from the operation, and at the same time it must not be forgotten that aneurisms of the innominate artery have been cured by palliative and constitu- tional treatment. It does not seem justifiable, therefore, to resort to the distal ligature till these means have had a fair trial. If, however, rest, diet, and medical treatment fail to arrest the progress of the disease, the amount of success obtained from simultaneous ligature of the carotid and subclavian has been quite sufficient to encourage a repetition of it in well-selected cases. ANEURISM OF THE CAROTID ARTERY. Aneurismal Varix of the Carotid Artery and of the Jtigular Vein, as the result of punctures and stabs in the neck, has been met with in a sufficient number of instances to establish the signs and treatment of such a condition ; and an instance is related by Mackmurdo, in which a com-