91 NATURE AND CAUSES OF ATHEROMA. that when extensive atheroma is met with in women, it will usually be found that they have been engaged in hard manual labour. In men, the most marked examples are met with in those whose occupations have involved violent physical exertion. In wasting diseases, in which the quantity of blood is diminislied and the arterial tension reduced, atheroma is seldom met with, and in the pulmonary arteries, in which the pressure is much less than in the systemic vessels, chronic endarteritis is rare, being observed only in those cases in which the right heart is hypertrophied in consequence of chronic bronchitis and emphysema, or obstruction at the mitral orifice. The disease first shows itself, moreover, in those parts which are exposed to the greatest strain, as in the arch of the aorta, and at the points at Avhich large branches are given off or a trunk bifurcates. It is common also to find the disease Fig. 439.-Atheroma of Aorta, e, Elastic lamina; m, middle coat; I, internal coat; /, the new -rowth umlergomg fatty degeneration. ° more advanced in those situations in which the artery is placed in close proximity to a bone, as in the femoral at the brim of the pelvis The tact that chronic endarteritis is always more marked in the vessels of the lower limb than m those of the upper may also be explained by the pressure being greater m the most dependent parts while the body is in the erect position. Among the constitutional affections which predispose most powerfally to the deTelopment of atheroma is chronm Bright', disease, with the granular conlracted kidney. Gull and Sntton demonstrated that this disease i assocated with a general change in the smaller arteries and capillaries, to which flhrfr^ 0 ^^>*rio-capilUra fitrosi.. It is oharact rized by di«a^ *;»kem„g of the external coat of the smaller arteries. In the diseased hdney, .Johnson has described a thickening of the walls of the .mailer arteries, which he believes to be due chiefly to the hypertrop y of he dispute ; but whatever the emt pathological change may be, it is beyond