136 ANEURISM. IS matenally influenced also by two other circumstances-viz.. the condition of the blood within the sac, and the completeness of the compression _ V\ hen the sac is filled with fluid blood, and the compression is not nn- in erniptedly complete, the sac appears to empty itself to a consideral)le extent, and eventually to consolidate by the deposit of laminated fibrin But It the sac already contain some solidified layers, and the compression be con- tinuous and complete, the coagulation of the remaining fluid part of its blood is apt to take place rather suddenly. But in all cases the contraction of the sac, consequent upon the arrest or restraint of the current of blood into it, i. an important element in the cure. There is a preparation in the Museum'of University College (Fig. 4G0), illustrative of this mode of cure. It would thus appear that the cure of an aneurism may take place in three different ways : 1, by the slow deposit of laminated fibrin ; 2, by rapid coagulation of the contents of the sac ; 3, by contraction of the sac. The particular mode of cure will depend upon the completeness of the compression and the more or less perfect arrest of the blood in the sac, the coagulability of that blood, and the shape of the aneurism. Circumstances Influencing Success. — The success of compression depends greatly upon a scrupulous attention to a number of minor circum- stances, which, though each be trifling in itself, become of importance when taken together. During the whole time, also, the patient's general health should be attended to in accordance with those principles that have already been laid down in speaking of the con- stitutional treatment of the disease. The irritability of the system must also be lessened, if necessary, by the use of opiates or of chloral ; and the patient should' be put into a comfortable bed, with firm and Avell-secured pillows and mattresses, so that his position may not be changed. As it is principally in aneurism of the lower extremity that compression can be employed, we shall proceed to describe the method of its application here. Application of the Compressor.—The thigh should, if necessary, be shaved. The skin should then be powdered, and' the limb bandaged with a soft roller ; a pad being laid on the tumour. Pillows must then be comfort- ably arranged under it, the knee being semi-flexed. Much of the success of the treatment will depend upon the kind of instrument used. The ordinary horse-shoe, or Signorini's tourniquet, was the one first employed, and this will, in many cases, answer the purpose perfectly well ; but, as it is somewhat difficult to regulate the pressure with this instrument, and as it is not unfre- quently exercised too powerfully, it has generally given place at the present day to the very ingenious apparatus of Carte, which, as it substitutes an elastic force derived from vulcanized india-rubber bands for the unyielding pressure of the screw, accommodates itself better to the limb, and is less likely to produce injurious compression. This instrument as well as the other contriv- ances which have at various times been invented for the treatment of aneurism by compression, are described by Bellingham and Tufnell, in their Pig. 4G0.—Sac of Tubular Aneurism cured by Compres- sion : Contraction of Sac, and irregular Deposit of Fibrin.