965 ENTERO-VESICAL FISTULM. When the fistula is low down and complicated with a ruptured perinseum, an incision should be made vertically downwards from the opening, completely dividing all the tissue between the rectum and vagina. The case is then treated°as one of complete rupture of the perintKum. (See Yol. I., p. 899.) If, although the fistula is low down, the perinyeum is intact, it is not advisable to divide it in the way above described. The opening may then be closed by turning up a vaginal flap and applying sutures in the manner described in Yol. I."^, p. 900. The preparation of the patient for operation and the after- treatment must be carried out on the same lines as in the ordinary operation for ruptured perinseum. When the recto-vaginal fistula is of syphilitic origin, there is usually some degree of stricture of the rectum associated with it, and an extensively excoriated and diseased state of the vaginal mucous membrane. In these cases the sufferings of the patient are often very great, and the only means of relief open to the Surgeon is the performance of colotomy. Entero-vesical Fistula.—A fistulous communication may be established between the intestine at some point above the rectum and the bladder. The fistula usually forms between the sigmoid flexure of the colon and the upper and left lateral part of the bladder. Less commonly the small intestine is involved, and very rarely a communication exists with more than one portion of the bowel. Harrison Cripps, who has collected 63 cases of recto-vesical and entero- vesical fistulas, finds that the fistula is far more frequently the result of some simple inflammatory aifection than of malignant disease. Indeed, in no less than 45 cases the fistula was due to simple causes, among which the most frequent was an abscess, probably due in the majority of cases to perforation of, the bowel by fragments of bone or other foreign bodies. The symptoms preceding the formation of the fistula vary with its cause. Thus, if it result from an abscess, there may be an acute onset with abdominal pain, fever, and possibly a rigor. A localized tender swelling may then develop in the lower part of the abdomen, and suddenly the urine is found to contain stinking pus, followed after a day or two by the passage of fsecal matter and flatus by the urethra. In other cases, when the fistula results from malignant disease or other chronic aff'ection of the bowels there may be a long antecedent history of intestinal symptoms, followed by irritability of the bladder. In endeavouring to decide whether the communication is with the lower part of the large intestine or with the small intestine, the exact character of the fsecai matter entering the bladder must be carefully examined. If the opening is low down in the large bowel, milk injected into the rectum may be found to enter the bladder, or if injected into the bladder may be found unchanged in the rectum. The treatment in the early stages should consist in clearing out the bowels with castor-oil, and then locking them up for 10 or 14 days with opium, so as to give the fistula a chance of closing, if it be not due to malignant disease. Should this fail, the bladder must be washed out twice daily, and if the patient's sufferings increase so as to render life a burden, colotomy may be resorted to if it is the great intestine that communicates with the bladder, or cystotomy may be done, and thus a wider outlet for fasces, urine, and flatus afforded through the perinaeum than the urethra permits. Cripps has suggested that in favourable cases it might be possible to close the opening into the bladder by suprapubic cystotomy.