EFFECTS OF THROMBOSIS. 55 however, is effected by the clot becoming infiltrated by. new cells proceeding from the wall of the vessel, as iu the permanent closure oi'a divided vein. New vessels afterwards penetrate amongst these cells, and by means of these a communication is established between the permeable portions of the vein above and below the clot. The channel, at first small, gradually enlarges by absorption of the tissue through which it passes, and thus, at last, the full calibre of the vein is restored. Softening and Disintegration are common changes when the thrombus has been formed iu consequence of inflammation of the vein, or as a result of those altered conditions of the blood which accompany septicferaia or malignant fevers. It is a very frequent occurrence when the affected vein leads fi'om a wound the discharges of which are in a septic state, or from an area affected with some infective inflammation, as in acute necrosis of bone. Softening most commonly takes 23lace in white or mixed thrombi. It com- mences in the centre of the clot at the part furthest removed from the walls of the vein. The clot if mixed becomes completely decolorized, and gradually breaks down into a creamy fluid resembling pus in appearance. Microscopic examination, however, shows that it is not pure pus. In some cases it is composed merely of granular debris, no corpuscles of any kind being recog- nizable; in others a certain liumber of pus cells may be mixed with the debris. These are white corpuscles, which were either contained in the clot and have escaped disintegration, or have wandered into it from the surrounding parts. In most cases in which softening takes place, micrococci are found in abund- ance in the puriform liquid. The effects of the process of softening will be discussed immediately. Calcification of a Thrombus is of rare occurrence. It occurs chiefly in the small clots that form in varicose veins in the pouches behind the valves. These calcified clots form small rounded bodies, varying in size from a mustard seed to a pea, and are known by the name of phleboliths. Effects of Thrombosis.—The first effect of thrombosis when not arising from obstruction is necessarily to arrest the flow of blood through the vein. If a single superficial vein be obstructed, this may cause no marked symp- toms ; but when the clot is situated in a main trunk, as in the femoral at the groin, it causes great cedema of the parts below. This is commonly seen in the so-called "white leg," which occurs after labour. If the vein remain permanently obstructed, the oedema may subside after some weeks or months, the collateral veins gradually dilating, and the free return of blood thus being re-established. In other cases the oedema diminishes, but does not completely disappear, the limb swelhng considerably when in a dependent position. When this occurs, the areolar tissue is indurated, the cedema becoming more "solid" as time goes on. The nutrition of the parts is interfered with, and chronic eczema or ulceration of the skin from slight causes is not uncommon. The relation of thrombosis to inflammation of the vein is a subject on which there has been considerable difference of opinion. Pathologists in the early part of the century regarded the presence of a thrombus in a vein, except when obviously due to mechanical causes arresting the flow of blood, as evi- dence of previous inflammation of the coats of the vessel. Some later patho- logists on the other hand have maintained that when thrombosis is found associated with inflammation of the coats of a vein, the latter condition is