DISEASES OF THE LII'S. into the mouth ; the escape of a few drops of sah'va through the fistulous opening rendering the attempt to close it completely nugatory. The plan o treatment which I have found to answer best is a modification of DeSt'/ It consists in passing a small hydrocele trochar into the fistula in the cheek pushing this obhquely forwards and inwards into the mouth, as nearly possible 111 the direction of the parotid duct, withdrawing the trochar, andthc^ passing a horsehair seton through the cannula, so as to bring one end out of he mouth and the other through the fistula in the cheek. The cannula is then withdrawn, and the seton tied loosely. It should be left in for about three weeks, so as to establish a sinus into the mouth. It is then to be cut and withdrawn, and the sinus in the mouth kept patent by the daily introduc- tion of a probe, by leaving a small piece of gum catheter in it, or, if it show much disposition to close, by the introduction of a laminaria tent. In this way the saliva is diverted from the external opening and made to flow into the mouth. The external aperture in the cheek may now be closed by touching Its edges with a pointed stick of nitrate of silver or the galvanic cautery ; or if large, they may be pared and stitched together. DISEASES OP THE LIPS. Congenital Malformation of the Lips is of common occurrence. Coji- fienital contractim, or even complete closure of the orifice of the mouth, has been naet with at birth ; such a conditiou must be remedied, according to cir- cumstances, by the skill of the Surgeon. The opposite condition is also occa- sionally observed, the opening of the mouth extending on one side too far into the cheek, constituting the condition known as Macrostoma. It must be remedied by a plastic operation. By far the most common malformation, however, is the condition termed Hare-lip, which will be noticed in detail in the chapter on the Plastic Surgery of the Face and Mouth. Hypertrophy to a great extent occasionally occurs in either or in both lips. It is especially common in the upper lip in scrofulous children, forming the condition known as "strumous lip." It is often of an oedematous character, being kept up by the irritation of fissures or cracks ; if so, these must be cured, when the size of the lip will gradually diminish. Sometimes, however, it becomes permanent, continuing after the cure of the fissure ; in these circumstances it may be necessary to excise an elliptical portion of the mucous membrane of the lip in a horizontal direction, and then to bring the edges together by means of sutures. Ulceration is not unfrequently met with on the prolabium, frequently of a simple character, though chronic. It is often dependent on a disordered state of the digestive organs. It will commonly yield Lo the application of nitrate of silver, to proper constitutional treatment having for its object the improve- ment of the digestion, and in very chronic cases to the administration of the l^reparations of arsenic. Primary Syphilitic Sores, communicated by kissing, are by no means uncommon on the lips. Their peculiar character has already been described (Vol. I., p. 1128). Cysts and Nsevi.—The lips may be the seat of cysts and erectile tumours, requiring extirpation by the knife or ligature. In dealing with these, the Surgeon must be guided by the circumstances of the individual case : but he