650 DISEASES OF THE LOWER JAW. posed, and must be carefully cleaned with a narrow elevator keenin. .1. . he bone so as to avoid injuring the facial nerve or \ZZ\^Zl!-f"^ " Ihe neck of the bone is then divided with a narrow cS X h ' f 2' ankylosis ,s fibrous, it may be possible to lever the condyl ont wit t evator ; if .t ,s osseous, a second section of the bone must b made ith t ch.sel Hnmed.ately below the zygoma. This operation has beeTsuc ^^^^^^^^^^^^^ performed by Davies-Colley, Heath, and others The result is ^fvP h^tS; 'r '''''''''''' - ^^'^-^ of ti c dy had failed to reheve the contraction, W. H. Bennett excised the an^^le of the ]aw on each s,de with a satisfactory result. Hum,.hry. of Cambri^.e a successfully removed the condyle in 1856 for rheuma-toid^arthritis. ^ ' Hears of 1 hiladelphia, has successfully operated on four cases from within tne mou h. He first passes a sharp bistoury between the masseter and the bone at the level of the last molar tooth, and then saws through the ramus at that pomt. The soft parts are next separated from the bone above the section by a periosteal elevator, and the insertion of the temporal muscle divided with a probe-pointed bistoury. The bone is then seized in the lion-forceps and an attempt made to wrench it out. If the ankylosis is bony, the neck probably fractures, and is then smoothed down, and as much as may be necessary removed with a chisel. Htemorrhage is arrested by pressure. The internal maxillary artery is avoided by keeping the instruments close to the bone but the inferior dental nerve and artery are necessarily divided. The facial nerve on the other hand is not in danger, nor is there any external scar. The results of his cases were most satisfactory. Enlargement of the Condyle of the Jaw is a rare condition occasionally met with. There is great and irregular increase in size of the condyle, ap- parently due to the formation of ossifying cartilaginous outgrowths similar to those of rheumatoid arthritis. In a case of this kind recorded by Adams, other joints were similarly affected. In two other cases recorded by McCarthy and Heath, there were no signs of general articular affection. In Heath's case the chin was thrown over to the opposite side, and great deformity resulted. The diseased condyle was successfully removed. It measured one inch and three-quarters from before back, and one inch across. The improve- ment in the appearance and in the utility of the jaw was very marked. Spasmodic Closure of the Jaws.—Spasmodic closure of the jaws, lasting weeks or months, and often accompanied by considerable pain, is not an uncommon result of retention of the wisdom tooth, either from faulty position, or from the second molar not allowing room for it to reach the surface. It occurs between the ages of 20 and 35, at the period at wdiich the wisdom tooth should be cut. Chloroform must be administered, and the mouth gagged open. The second molar must then be extracted to give room for the wisdom tooth, after which the symptoms soon subside. Permanent Closure of the Jaws may be due to ankylosis of the joint, as already described. It may also be the result of contraction of cicatrices, resulting from cancrum oris, or from gangrenous stomatitis following the excessive administration of mercury, or more rarely fi-om extensive necrosis. When the mucous membrane has been destroyed by ulceration from the one alveolar border to the other, the resulting cicatrix binds the jaws so firmly together, that not only is movement impossible, but the inside of the cheek is in such close contact with the teeth, that there is scarcely room to pass a