DISEASES OF VEINS. 52 2. Altered conditions of the blood in which there is supposed tf) be u liberation of the ferment, B. Retardation or arrest of the blood-stream : due to {a) diminished vis a tergo; {h) pressure on the vessel; (c) interruption of its continuity; {d) obstruction by a thrombus due to any of the preceding causes. 1. Changes in the wall of the vessel. a. Injury.—The effect of any severe injury to the coats of a vein is either to extinguish the vitality of the injured parts or so far to diminish it that the vessel wall behaves towards the blood as a foreign body, and a coagulum is formed on the damaged part just as it would be on a piece of wire introduced into the vein, A vein is occasionally penetrated by a foreign body, as when a ligature is accidentally passed through it in tying a contiguous artery. Under these circumstances a clot will quickly form upon the foreign body. h. Inflammation.—It has already been pointed out in the Chapter on Inflammation that the most essential feature of the process is a diminished vitality of the affected part to a degree short of actual death. If the inflammation is sufficiently intense the wall of an inflamed vein behaves towards the contained blood as if it were dead matter, and coagulation consequently takes place. Thrombosis thus forms a marked feature of all forms of phlebitis. The causes of inflammation of veins will be described later on (see Phlebitis). c. Degeneration.—Degeneration of the coats is less marked in the veins than in the arteries. In varicose veins, the middle coat is greatly thickened by the growth of fibroid tissue, and calcareous plates are sometimes met with in it; but the endothelial lining is usually intact, and consequently thrombosis comparatively seldom takes place as a consequence of this alone. 2. Altered Conditions of the Blood.—The exact nature of the changes of the blood that predispose to thrombosis is very imperfectly known. The experiments before alluded to show that an excess of free ferment in the blood may act as a powerful predisposing cause, or even the sole cause of coagula- tion. In septicEemia, pyaemia, and many other acute febrile diseases, there is considerable destruction of corpuscles, and very probably in this way ferment is liberated, and it is well known that thrombosis is common m these affec- tions The mere excess of white corpuscles, such as is observed m leuco- cythEemia. does not seem to predispose in any great degree to thrombosis. Koch has observed, in pysemia experimentally induced m ammals, thrombosis of small vessels apparently originating in the plugging of the channel by microscopic organisms, and possibly some such condition may be present in some cases of venous thrombosis. 3 Retardation of the Blood-stream.-Perfect rest of the blood when withdrawn from the body delays coagulation, and free movement hastens it. It is impossible, therefore, to suppose that retardation or arrest of the flow can act directly as a cause of thrombosis. Nothing, however, is more certain than that it does form one of the most important causes of coagulation in the living vessels. It may act in various ways. First, if the arrest of the circulation be complete and of sufficient duration, the vitality of tlie part wil suffer until the vessels come to act as foreign bodies and coagulation takes place. Secondly, if a part of the vein is already diseased or ;°J-ed "le retardation of he blood-stream will favour the adhesion of he white CO puscles to the unhealthy surface, which is the first step m thrombosis