28 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. in such cases often starts from definite spots Avhich will be found to be ex- tremely tender on pressure. When the ophthalmic division is affected tender spots may be found at the supra-orbital notch, on the nose between the nasal bone and cartilage, and on the scalp above the parietal eminence. In neural-ia ot the superior maxillary division tenderness may be found over the infra- orbital ioi-amen, over the malar foramen in the malar bone, and rarely along the upper gum and in the palate. Tender spots along the branches of the interior maxillary may be found at the mental foramen, along the side of the tongue, and sometimes in front of the ear and in the lower lip. In considering the various operations which may be required for the relief of trigeminal neuralgia, it will be convenient to consider first the methods by which the different branches may be stretched or excised. First or Ophthalmic Division of the Fifth.—It is evident that the frontal branch of this nerve is the only part that can be either stretched or divided. The frontal divides about the middle of the orbit into the supra- trochlear and supra-orbital branches. The supra-orbital leaves the orbit usually as a single trunk, and can be isolated without difficulty. The position of the nerve is recognized by feeling for the supra-orbital notch, through which it passes. The nerve may be stretched subcutaneously by making a small puncture with a tenotome about a quarter of an inch on one side of the notch. A blunt hook is inserted through this and forcibly scraped along the bone until its point has passed the line of the nerve. The skin of the forehead must be pulled upwards so as to make it tense, and there will then be no difficulty in ascertaining by the sense of resistance whether the nerve has been hooked or not. If it be felt upon the hook, the skin of the forehead being pulled forcibly upwards, the nerve may be firmly stretched. It is, however, better to expose the nerve by an incision through which stretching or excision may be done. The skin of the forehead must be drawn up and the eyelid down, and a curved incision about an inch in length must be made parallel to the eyebrow and a little below it, the centre of the wound being opposite the notch. The fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum may then be separated by a blunt instrument, and the nerve exposed as it leaves the orbit lying closely upon the bone. It may then be stretched, or a piece cut out as desired. Horsley finds that the nerve can usually be traced back without difficulty to the division of the' frontal, and thus the supratrochlear nerve can also be divided. The supratrochlear is too small, and, as a rule, too much broken up into branches to be isolated and stretched. Should it be necessary to expose the nerve separately, it will be found at a point where a line drawn upwards from the angle of the mouth through the inner canthus meets the margin of the orbit. The Second or Superior Maxillary Branch of the Fifth.—This nerve, after crossing the spheno-maxillary fossa, enters a canal in the floor of the orbit, and appears on the face through the infra-orbital foramen. The nerve has been divided as it leaves the foramen, in the canal, and in the spheno- maxillary fossa. The situation of the infra-orbital foramen is found by drawing a line from the supra-orbital notch to the interval between the two bicuspid teeth of the lower jaw. This line crosses the infra-orbital foramen, and if prolonged will show the position also of the mental foramen. The iufi-a-orbital foramen is situated about half an inch below the lower margin of