DISEASE OF THE HIP-JOINT. 436 divided by means of a small but strong curved bistoury as far as possible round the bone below the trochanter, in a direction at right angles to the lower part of the first incision. The Surgeon then peels the periosteum with the muscles attached to the trochanter off the bone with a strong periosteal elevator. The joint is next thoroughly opened, and the head of the bone tui'ued out, by which the periosteum is peeled off from the inner side ; lastly, the bone is sawn through above the small trochanter. By saving the periosteum, Sayi'e states that he obtains more perfect repair with less shorten- ing, and a stronger and more movable joint. In sawing the bone in excision of the hip, the ingenious instrument invented by Gowan of Guy's Hospital will be found very useful in some cases (Fig. 575). Excision may also be done through a f-shaped incision over the upper end of the thigh bone, and in some advanced cases when the gluteal region is perforated with sinuses, the soft parts thinned and the head of bone displaced on to the dorsum ilii, it is sufficient to pass a director down one of the chief sinuses leading to the carious bone, and to slit this up. It is usually unnecessary to employ the bloodless method in these operations, but it has the advantage of enabhng the Surgeon to ascertain accurately the condition of the trochanter and upper end of the fem\ir. The tourniquet may be appHed as represented in Fig. 10, Vol. I. When. the trochanter is healthy the bone should, as a rule, be sawn through the neck ; if diseased, above the small trochanter. If, however, there is irreducible flexion in old-standmg cases, or if the presence of the trochanter interferes with the free drainage of an intra- pelvic abscess, the bone may in any case be sawn below it. Where large portions of the pelvic bones require removal, external or posterior incisions should be made in the way already described ; the incisions, however, being made more freely, but not carried so fai- forwards as to endanger the anterior crural, or so far back as to wound the sciatic nerve. After the^rcmoval of the head of the thigh-bone, all loose necrosed pieces are to be taken out, and then, by means of ordinary cutting or gouge-forceps, the acetabulum and other carious osseous structiu-es are cut away piecemeal. Fig. 5T5.—Gowau's Osteotome.