IS uu CATHETER FEVERS ike that form of peritonitis in which the temperature is persistently low t ppmat^^ kidne? can resemble typhoid fever only in rare cases and the blence ofspots, tether with the temp^-ature will --"^^f- ° »t them. In the case above mentioned, the temperature was b^^^^ "^^^^^^^^^ three weeks before death. From ague, the disease is diagnosed by the abse^^^ of the complete intermission after the sweating stage; ^i^t it must always be remembered that patients who have sufiered from ague are singularly liable to attacks of fever after any operation on the urinary organs. Urethral Fever or Uremic Fever.-This term has been somewhat oosely used to signify a rigor followed by sweating, and more or less prolonged elevation of temperature, consequent on some operation on the urinary organs or possibly arising spontaneously. It will be seen at once that this definition includes acute interstitial nephritis, as above described and also pyaemia When a patient has been said to have died of " urethral fever, one of these two conditions has invariably been found, although no Surgeon would inten- tionally include pyemia under urethral fever. It is probable that the real nature of the affection is, at least in the great majority of cases, a disturbance of the circulation in the kidney, or some interference with its function, due to reflex irritation from the passage of the instrument, as before described in speaking of the sources of irritation to the kidney. That it is not due to absorption of urine from a wound in the urinary passages, is evident from the fact that rigors are rare after lithotomy, and are not common in extravasation of urine, and that wounds of the urethra anterior to the scrotum scarcely ever give rise to them. This view of the renal origin of "urethral fever is supported by Malherbe, in his treatise on Urasmic Fever, as he has called it. It is difficult to obtain direct proof, but further knowledge might be gained by carefully examining hour by hour the quantity and quality of the urine secreted after any urethral or vesical operation, and at the same time accurately observing the changes in temperature, even when a rigor does not occur. Mal- herbe states that the temperature rises in almost every case ; and in one of the four cases of stricture before mentioned the temperature rose to 100-3° F. three hours after the operation, when the urine became bloody. It fell to 99-2° F. when the blood disappeared ; but three hours afterwards a little more blood showed itself, and the temperature rose to 100-3° F. Sir Andrew Clark suggested the quaint name of " catheter fever," for those cases in which, shortly after the commencement of the habitual use of a catheter, obscure febrile symptoms set in gradually, terminating fi-equently in death. The symptoms most commonly develop about a week after habitual catheterism has been commenced, and almost invariably in those cases in which it is rendered necessary by enlargement of the prostate or atony of the bladder with partial retention of urine. With the ordinary symptoms of febrile dis- turbance there is a diminution of the specific gravity of the urine and in the amount of solids excreted by the kidney. There are at the same time but moderate symptoms of cystitis. The symptoms may gradually pass off', or the patient may die exhausted at the end of three or four weeks. At the post- mortem examination it is said that the kidneys are found perfectly healthy, and no definite organic change is present to account for death. Clark was inclined to attribute the fever to repeated disturbance of the nervous system by the passage of the instrument. Further investigations concerning this subject are needed, and it remains to be seen how many cases will be left to