TREATMENT OF RETENTION. 1151 of the testicles was followed by atrophy of the normal prostate The sug- 1 on Tp rfor^ castration with the definite object 0/causing shi^kage 0 I hvpei-trophied gland was prominently brought forward by White 0 PhiladJph a'in ISol, but the operation was first performed by Eamm of rSania in the same year. The patient, seventy-three years of age, had uff ed from symptoms of enlarged prostate for fifteen years, and came under ufatment for complete retention. The prostate rapidly dunimshed in size after castration and the patient recovered good power of micturition. In this country the operation was first performed by Manse 1 Moullin, and he has been followed by Fenwick, Heath, and others. In the cases which Imve so far been recorded, more than twenty in number the result has been almost uniformly satisfactory. In several instances the diminution m the size of the gland has been appreciable within a few days after the operation and has o-radually continued until, after several weeks, complete atrophy has taken place Further experience alone can show whether castration is capable ot producing this result in all varieties and stages of chronic enlargement, and what amount of impairment of the muscular power of the bladder is capable °^ Sufficient evidence is before us to justify a continued trial of the treatment in cases of enlarged prostate in which the severity of symptoms calls .or radical measures. ^ Few men of the age at which the operation is likely to be required will refuse to submit to it if further experience can show results equal to those hitherto obtained. Treatment of Complete Retention from Prostatic Enlargement.— In these cases the patient must be relieved by an instrument as soon as possible, as elderly people are liable to suffer severely if there is any delay, fever soon setting in, which may be fatal. It cannot be too strongly insisted on that in these cases there is no actual narrowing of the canal. The enlarged prostate is no doubt swollen, but there is always sufficient space left for the passage of the largest catheter, if only the proper way can be found. Nothing is gained by using small instruments; anything below No. 8 or 9 (English) is hkely to wound the swollen mucous membrane, and cause troublesome haemorrhage. In complete retention the various modes of overcoming the obstacles in the prostate, which have already been described, must first be attempted, beginning with soft instruments, and using silver ones only after these have failed. If the retention is thus relieved, it becomes a question whether the catheter should be left in the bladder or withdrawn after the viscus is emptied. As a general rule, it is certainly far better not to leave the catheter in, for the reasons given at page 1125. The instrument should be introduced twice in the twenty-four hours ; and care should be taken, if possible, to empty the pouch behind the prostate by depressing its point. Should the mucus be very viscid and offensive, the bladder may be washed out. After the bladder has been emptied for the first time, it will be found to refill in the course of a very few hours, usually in six or eight, the secretion of the kidneys appearing to be set free on the removal of the pressure. Should any great difficulty be experienced in introducing the catheter, it may be thought desirable to leave it in the bladder for two or three days ; and then a gum-elastic one is always to be preferred, as in these circumstances it presents a great advantage over the silver catheter, becoming soft, accommo-