1136 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. marked. Blood from the kidney does not often appear as clots, and is uni- formly mixed with the urine. Blood-casts of the ureter have been seen in cases of very profuse renal hoemorrhage from cancer or injury. 2. Heeniorrhage from the Bladder.—If the blood proceed from the bladder, it may be the result of congestion of the mucous membrane, of th^ irritation of a calculus, of a papilloma or other villous tumour, or of the ulcei, tion of malignant disease. When it depends on vesical congestion, there will b*.. a sensation of weight in the region of the bladder, with frequent desire to pass urine ; when it depends on calculus, the special symptoms of the existence of stone will be present. When it occurs from a villous tumour at the neck of the bladder, the quantity of blood lost is usually very great and the*h8emorrhaj^e persistent. If it arise from malignant disease, the discharge of pus, and of the deh'is of the ulcerating tumour, may afford evidence of the source of tli" haemorrhage. Blood from the bladder usually is most abundant towards tli*; end of micturition, especially in cases of tumour, the first urine that passes, or that is drawn off by a catheter, being pale and less bloody than the last, and at the termination nothing but blood may flow. In stone and cystitis it is more often uniformly mixed with the urine. Irregular masses of clot are often passed when the haemorrhage has been very abundant. 3. Haemorrhage from the Prostate.—If the prostate be the source of haemorrhage, the discharge may be occasioned by congestion of that organ, or by its ulceration, simple or malignant. In these cases, exploration by the rectum and urethra will indicate the true cause of the bleeding. The blood usually finds its way back into the bladder rather than towards the penile urethra, and thus may appear towards the end of micturition, or be uniformly mixed with the urine. 4. Haemorrhage from the Urethra.—The bleeding may arise from congestion or inflammation of the mucous membrane, or may follow rupture of the walls of the canal, consequent on injury or on the introduction of instruments. Blood from the urethra usually flows independently of mic- turition, as in recent injuries, or passes with the first few drops of urine. It may, however, occasionally come with the last drops expelled. This is by no means uncommon in gonorrhoea, or in cases of gleet dependent upon a granular condition of the mucous membrane of the bulbous portion of the urethra. It seems, then, to be due to the contraction of the ejaculator urina3 squeezing a drop or two of blood from the inflamed spot. The Treatment of heematuria must necessarily have reference to its cause. When it depends on a morbid constitutional state, as scurvy or malarial poisoning, the treatment of the disease, of which the hsematuria is merely a symptom or an effect, must be conducted on ordinary medical principles. If it arise from inflammatory congestion of the kidneys, bladder, or prostate, cupping, or the application of leeches over the affected part, demulcents, and saline drinks, will be most efiicacious; if from passive congestion, saline purgatives, followed by the use of astringents, will speedily induce a cessa- tion of the hsemorrhage. The astringent that exercises the most marked influence in arresting hsematuria, when that condition is purely passive, is undoubtedly gallic acid. This may be given in five or ten-gi-ain doses, frequently repeated, in infusion of buchu or uva ursi. Sometimes the bladder becomes distended by a large soft coagulum, filling up its interior, and causing it to reach to the umbilicus, forming a rounded solid tumour, like the gravid uterus. In such circumstances, the largest catheter