STRANGULA TED HERNIA. cases there is constipation, with eructation, and perhaps occasional vomiting. There may be some degree of pain, or uneasiness about the tumour ; but there is no tension in it or in its neck, and the symptoms altogether are of a chronic or subacute character. The Treatment of such a case as this should consist in the administration of a good purgative injection ; the compound colocynth enema is the best, thrown up as high as possible by means of a long tube. Ice may then be applied to the tumour for about half an hour ; and the taxis, as will afterwards be described, may be used under chloroform. The ice may be omitted in those cases in which, on handling the tumour, gurgling can readily be felt ; but the taxis should always be used, as by it the incarcerated gut may be partially emptied of its contents ; or if any additional protrusion should have slipped down, this may be returned. After these means have been employed, an active purgative, such as a full dose of castor oil or a calomel and colocynth pill may be administered. Should there be any signs of inflammation, purgatives must be avoided, and the case treated as already described. STRANQULATED HERNIA. A hernia is said to be Strangulated when a portion of gut or omentum that is protruded is so tightly constricted that it cannot be returned into the abdomen ; having its functions arrested, and, if not relieved, speedily running into gangrene. This condition may occur at all periods of life, being met with in infants a few days old, and in centenarians. It commonly arises from a sudden violent eifort, by which a fresh portion of intestine is forcibly protruded into a previously existing hernia, which it distends to such a degree as to produce strangulation. But, though old hernise are more subject to this condition than recent ones, it may occur at the very first formation of a hernial swelling, the gut becoming strangled as it is protruded. There are therefore two distinct kinds of strangulation. One may be said to be passive, occurring chiefly in elderly people, the subjects of old and perhaps irreducible herniss ; which, in consequence of some accidental circumstance, become distended by the descent of a larger portion of intestine than usual, and this, undergoing constriction at the neck of the sac, gradually becomes strangulated. The other kind is more fi'equent in younger individuals ; in it the symptoms are active, the bowel becoming protruded in consequence of violent exertion, and undergoing rapid strangulation, the tension of the parts not having 'been lessened by the previous long existence of an irreducible hernia. Mechanism of Strangulation.—Strangulation has been attributed either to a spasmodic action of the walls of the aperture through which the hernia protrudes, or to changes taking place in the protruded parts, occasioned by their constriction by the tissues external to them. Strangulation cannot, I think, ever be regarded as of spasmodic character; for the aperture in the abdominal wall, through which the hernia escapes, is tendinous or fibrous, and certainly not in any way contractile, though the action of the abdominal muscles may undoubtedly increase the tension of its sides. The continued and permanent character of the strangulation also, when once it has taken place, would discountenance this opinion ; those forms of hernia, indeed, as the ventral, which occur in purely muscular structures, are very rarely strangulated, and, when they are, the constriction is generally occasioned by