HERNIA. wi^ri^H ' '"'^ "^'"'^ ^^^"'^^ ^ ^hich six were met with m the same person. The abdomiaal parietes outside the sac undergo important changes Tin- aperture through which the hernia protrudes usually becomes circular ; after a time mdumted and rounded at the edge, and considerably enlarged ; when situated m the movable portions of the abdominal wall, as in the inguinal region, it becomes displaced in old herniae, being dragged down by the weight of the protrusion, usually towards the mesial line. The subserous areolar tissue always becomes greatly thickened, often indurated, so as to constitute one of the densest mvestments of the sac, and, in some cases of old hernia closely to resemble omentum. The more superficial structures, such as th.' integument and fascia, are much elongated and stretched ; often tense, but not unfrequently hanging in folds ; they are usually thinned, but, if a truss hav. been long worn, they become thickened and condensed by the pressure of the pad Contents.—The contents of the sac vary greatly ; every viscus except the pancreas having been found in a hernial tumour. Most frequently a portion ot the Small Intestme, more particularly of the ileum, is protruded, constituting the form of hernia called Enterocele. The quantity of intestine within the sac may vary from a small section of the calibre of the gut, the whole diameter not being included, to a coil several feet in length with its attached mesenteir After a portion of gut has once descended, the protrusion tends to increase until, as m some large and old hernite, the greater portion of the intestine has been known to lie in the sac. The Large Intestine is less often found in a hernia, though the c^cum is not uncommonly met with. When intestine has been long protruded, it usually becomes thickened, narrowed, greyish on the surface, and more or less deranged in its functions. The corresponding mesentery becomes thickened, hypertrophied, and vascular. Omentum is often found in hernial sacs, together with intestine ; but is not unfrequently met -yvith alone, constituting Epiplocele. After having been protruded for some time it becomes thickened, brawny, and laminated, losing its ordinary texture, and becoming indurated. Its veins usually assume a somewhat varicose condition ; and the mass of omentum becomes pyramidal in form, the apex being upwards at the abdominal aperture, and the base below, broad and expanded. In some cases it can be unfolded ; in others, lis is matted together into a solid mass. Occasionally apertures form in it, through which a coil of intestine may protrude, thus becoming strangulated within the sac. In other instances, cysts are met with in it containing fluid. "When both intestine and omentum are present, the hernia is termed an Entero-epiplocele; and in these circumstances the omentum descends in front of and occasionally envelops the intestine. Besides these, the ordinary contents of hernise, the stomach, liver, spleen, CEecum, sigmoid flexure of the colon, bladder, uterus, and ovaries, have all been found in them. In a case described by Scanzoni, the gravid uterus and ovaries were enclosed in the sac of an inguinal hernia. Adhesions commonly form within the sac in old-standing cases. These may take place between the contained viscera merely, as between two coils of intestine, or between these and the omentum ; or they may form between the wall of the sac and its contents, either by broad bands, or else by bridging across from one side to the other, and enclosing a portion of the viscera. In recent cases these adhesions are soft, and may readily be broken down ; but when of longer dura- tion, they are often very dense, and are especially firm about the neck of the sac.