HAMMER TOE. 5f>S toes—extensor longiis di<ritoram and exbensor pvoprius hallucis—following: on a weakness or feebleness of their antagonists, the interossei, adductor, and short flexor of the great toe. Consequently any excess of action of these same extensor muscles, whatever may be its cause, ought to produce exactly identical results. An obvious objection to Duchenne's theory as to the usual cause of hollow claw-foot is the difficulty of supposing that paralysis should affect solely the interossei and the flexor brevis and adductor hallucis. In some cases there is undoubtedly wasting of other muscles, but this is by no means always the case. Further, alchough such a localized paralysis may serve to account for the position of the toes, the explanation of the arching of the foot given above seems far from satisfactory. Perhaps the explanation which on the whole seems the most probable is that suggested by Parkin of Hull, who has endeavoured to prove on mechanical grounds that pes cavus is hable to occur in any case of talipes equinus, provided only that the patient transmits the weight of the body for a suffi- cient length of time through the affected foot without the intervention of a raised artificial heel." According to this view the overarching of the foot is explained as follows. Normally the weight of the body is transmitted to the ground in two component parts—through the heel and the ball of the toes, but in cases of equinus the weight is carried by the toes only. If the equinus be extreme, so that the long axis of the foot is brought into a hue with the leg, there is no tendency to the production of pes cavus. But, in any case of equinus less severe than this, the weight of the body being transmitted obliquely to the ball of the toes, tends to bring the heel to the ground by a conapensatory overarching of the foot, and in this way the heel is made to bear its share of the body-weight. The position of the toes is the result primarily of the old condition of equinus, and secondarily of the displace- ment of the interossei and the contraction of the extensor muscles. In some cases a slight degree of pes cavus occurs in patients who have been kept in the recumbent position for long periods. The front part of the foot drops, and the fascial structures of the sole become secondarily shortened. The Treatmejit of this condition is not satisfactory. The preventive measures should consist in the treatment of any muscular paralysis which may exist, or of talipes equinus, if present. When the deformity is well marked, the position may often be improved by division of the tendo Achillis and the tense bands of plantar fascia. After the operation the foot should be fixed with plaster of Paris or on a rectangular splint. In some cases it may be found advisable to divide also one or more of the extensor tendons of the toes. Contraction of One Toe or Hammer Toe, is not of unfrequent occur- rence. In this condition the proximal phalanx is on its normal level or raised up and over-extended ; the second phalanx is flexed at an acute angle and cannot be extended, and the third phalanx may be in a line with the second, but is more commonly over-extended. There is always a painful corn over the flexed joint which seriously cripples the patient. The cause of hammer toe is very obscure. It commences almost invariably in youth or childhood, and is occasionally congenital. The deformity is, in some cases, hereditary. It may be aggravated by badly made boots, but does not seem to be primarily caused by them. The second toe is most commonly affected. S. G-. Shattock and W. Anderson have shown by dissection that extension is prevented by