I204 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. directly into the bladder above the pubes. The operation is a simple one, and with a little care is perfectly safe. The chief points are not to thrust the needle too deeply, to direct it well behind the pubes, and gently to withdraw it before the whole of the urine has escaped, so as to prevent the emjjtied bladder from collapsing upon and being wounded by its point (see p. 757 Vol. II.). After relief has thus been afforded the patient should be confined to bed, and means be taken to subdue the congestion and spasm which, com- plicating the organic stricture, have probably been largely instrumental in causing the attack of retention. A morphia suppository should be intro- duced into the rectum and a brisk saline aperient given. After a few hours another attempt may be made to pass a catheter ; if this fail and the patient be still unable to relieve himself, aspiration may be repeated twice or even three times when the bladder has refilled. It must be clearly understood that aspiration is undertaken merely with the object of affording temporary relief to the distended bladder, and thus allowing time for further attempts at catheterization. If the latter still prove unsuccessful, even after aspiration has been performed three or four times, the case must be treated as one of impermeable stricture, Wheelhouse's operation being as a rule the best method to adopt (p. 1200). 2. Tapping the Bladder above the Pubes, in cases of retention from stricture, is occasionally practised. It differs essentially from aspiration in this respect, that a cannula, or a soft catheter introduced through it, is left in the bladder for drainage, whereas in aspiration the distension of the bladder is relieved and the needle at once removed. This operation, which has been discussed at p. 1152, is undoubtedly easy of performance, and sufficiently safe, though not free from the danger of infiltration of urine into the tissues around the puncture, and of the inconvenience of a fistulous opening being left. The only advantage which this treatment presents is that it is a simple method of giving perfect rest to the urethra, and thus allowing its condition to become more favourable for the passage of an instrument into the bladder. As soon as this can be done the stricture is dilated or divided, and after the introduction of a full-sized catheter urethrcm the cannula above the pubes is removed and the opening allowed to close. 3. Opening the Urethra behind the Stricture.—This operation is rarely required as an immediate treatment in cases of retention from stricture. There is, however, one class of cases in which Cock's operation should cer- tainly be performed—those in which retention is complicated by commencing extravasation of urine or perinaeal abscess. If there be a brawny tender swelling in the perinasum it may almost certainly be concluded that suppura- tion has occurred around the urethra behind the stricture or that the extravasation of a few drops of urine has taken place. Under these circum- stances the incision into the dilated urethra behind the stricture will not only relieve the patient from the distress and danger of the retention, but will also afford a free exit for any extravasated matters. The mode of performing the operation has already been sufficiently described at p. 1200. Extravasation of Urine is one of the most dangerous and fatal results of unrelieved retention. Tivs accident may occur in consequence of rupture of the dilated portion of the urethra which is immediately behind the stricture. It then takes place suddenly, the patient, while suffering from retention, feeling something give way during a violent effort at micturition, and at the same