VOL. 11. 3 F FAGJSrS DISEASE OF THE NIPFLK have 801 p not the least doubt. The number of instances that have fallen under „/obtv"in wM^^ a blow or squeeze of the ^-st « 7^ - u ^aA hv the annearance of a cancerous tumour m it, leaves no aouot IttTvt'rmy mTd of the truth of the popular belief that associates the iuiury with the disease, in the relation of cause and effect. Disease of the Nipple, resembling eczema, has been described by Paget .sroccasion;i precursor of cancer of the breast, and is commonly known as "2...The disease begins with slight desquamation and discharge from the surface of the nipple or areola. When the condition is fully developed the affected area, which may include the whole areola or extend beyond 1 is m most cases intensely red, raw, and granular, and there is an abundant yeUowish discharge which forms scabs as it dries. It is accompanied by itohmg. Iq other c^ses the surface is dry and scaly. The outline of the pa^ch is well defined, and its shape is more or less circular, with the nipple m the centre. Occasionally ulceration takes place by which the nipple may be destroyed. The disease differs from eczema in its intensely red colour, the sharply defined outhne,the presence of slight induration, and the absence of vesicles and pustules, men cancer occurs it is usually situated immediately beneath the diseased nipple, but it may be more deeply situated. The microscopic appearances of the diseased tissue were first described by Butlin, and his observations have been confirmed by others. Butlin found proliferation of the deeper layers of the epithelium, and small-cell mfiltratioa of the corium of the areola, dilatation of the galactophorous ducts, with pro- liferation of the epithelium, sometimes completely choking them, and small- cell infiltration around the diseased ducts. Deeper down, the epithelium of the acini was seen to be proliferating, and finally to be invading the tissues around. With the exception of four specimens examined by Thm, which were described as duct-cancers, the form of cancer invariably met with has been the spheroidal-celled variety. It has been suggested as a possible explanation of the relation between the condition of the skin and the cancer that the former is the result of irri- tating discharges from the ducts due to presence of the morbid growth. Apart from the absence of any evidence of such discharge, it may be pointed out that Paget's disease may exist independently of a tumour, and in many instances has been present for many years before the presence of a tumour was detected. It seems, therefore, almost certain that the affection of the nipple stands in some definite causal relation to the development of the cancer, pro- l)ably by the production of proliferative epithelial changes in the ducts and acini. Lastly, it must be mentioned that Darier and Wickham attribute the disease to the presence of psorosperins in the epithelium of the skin (Vol. I., p. 1056). Bowlby has examined a considerable number of specimens, and is also of opinion that the bodies seen in the cells are in all probability parasitic, but at present no actual proof of this view is forthcoming, and similar appearances have been ascribed by other observers to endogenous cell division (Yol. L, p. 1057). The Treatment of this disease is very unsatisfactory. In the earliest stages, when the distinction from simple eczema may be doubtful, soothing applica- tions, such as calamine lotion, should be used. When, however, the nature of the condition is certain, the case must be regarded as serious, and the