PRIMARY LATERAL CURVATURE. 5'9 wards of the pelvis, which so frequently occurs in cases of flexion of the hip-joint from disease (see p. 417). -,• -i j • l Lateral Curvature of the Spine may conveniently be divided into two classes—first, those cases in which the deformity is the primary condition ; and secondly, those in which the deformity is secondary to, or symptomatic of, some other affection. Primary Lateral Curvature commences most commonly at an early period of life, usually between the ages of twelve and eighteen—seldom before the one, and not very commonly after the other. It is occasionally met with in rickety children. Girls are much more frequently affected than boys. The onset of the deformity is especially frequent about the age of puberty ; at a time of life when the tonicity of the muscular system not unfrequently becomes lessened by the occurrence of anaemia and those states of impaired health that so frequently attend the establishment of the uterine function ; and before the osseous structures of the body are fully developed. At this period of life, also, it frequently happens that the spine becomes rather suddenly elongated by a rapid increase in growth ; or that it becomes over- weighted by the body developing, and the shoulders and bust becoming unduly stout and expanded. A tendency to deviation of the spine is extremely common about this age, and if this tendency be increased by injurious habits, amongst which are all one-sided postures in which the body is twisted, as in playing certain games, some musical instruments, or in leaning over a table in drawing and writing, it may rapidly increase until it assumes the true characters of lateral curvature. Associated with the deviation of the spine, flat-foot and knock-knee are not uncommonly met with. Lateral curvature is common also in young women of a short and thick build, in whom the bust and shoulders become largely and early developed. In them too great a weight is thrown on the spine before its osseous and ligamentous structures are sufficiently developed and solidified to enable it to support this burden. Amongst the more common predisposing causes must undoubtedly be reckoned the sedentary occupations and enervating habits commonly encouraged in yirls in the wealthier ranks of life, which, by preventing due muscular develop- ment, at the same time that they induce a general loss of tone in the system, may directly occasion the disease. In growing lads, lateral curvature may be l)rodnced by a habitually maintained faulty position, as in sitting too long at the desk, or in following certain occupations. The deformity is undoubtedly due in many cases to the habitual carrying of heavy weights by growing girls with weak spines. An inequality in the focal length of the two eyes is a common cause of spinal curvature, the patient habitually twisting the body forward on the side of the defective eye, so as to endeavour to accommodate the vision of it to that of the stronger one. That the real cause of lateral curvature of the spine is to be found in faulty habits of life, and not in sex, is evidenced by the rarity of the afleection amongst girls of the labouring class, as compared with its frequency amongst those of the wealthier orders of ociety. The causes of the antero-posterior curves are usually to be found in some I'aulty habits of the patient : either giving rise to an habitual stoop, and thus causing kyphosis, or throwing too great a weight on the loins, and thus giving rise to lordosis. Myopia and other impairments of vision causing the person so affected to stoop, in order to bring the page nearer the eye in