829 IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. effect changes in the shape and connexions of the abdominal contents, to alter the size of the cavity and to modify in various ways many conditions indepen- dent of those immediately connected with the hernial protrusion. In young children the operation is comparatively rarely required, for during the first few years of life hernia show a great tendency to undergo spontaneous cure. In aged persons also the operation is rarely justifiable for reducible hernia. In healthy adults the operation may be undertaken when the hernia prevents admission to one of the public services, when it cannot be kept back by a truss, and when the patient's occupation renders the use of a truss especially inconvenient. In any favourable case the Surgeon is justified in undertaking the operation at the patient's request, after explaining that it necessarily involves a small amount of risk. Radical cure is no longer confined to inguinal hernia, and consequently the details of the operation will most conveniently be considered with the special hernias. IRREDUCIBLE HERNIA. Irreducible Hernia are usually of old date, and often of large size. They generally contain a considerable quantity of thickened omentum, as well as intestine and mesentery. In many instances, a rupture of this kind is partly reducible, the greater portion remaining unreduced. It is usually the gut which slips up, and the omentum that cannot be returned. Causes of Irreducibility.—The irreducibihty of a rupture may be dependent either on its shape, on the existence of adhesions, or on its very nature. If the sac become the seat of an hour-glass contraction, or its neck become elongated and narrowed, the hernial contents may continue permanently protruding. So also, the expanded condition of the lower part of the omentum, and the narrowing of its neck, may prevent a return of the rupture. The existence of adhesions, either between the sac and its contents,, or between protruded intestine and omentum, will commonly render a hernia irreducible ; and most frequently these are associated with changes in the shape of the sac or of the omentum. When a hernia is devoid of a perfect sac it is necessarily, in part at least, irreducible, for the portion of the protruded viscus which is exposed contracts adhesions with the surrounding tissues. In this way hernia of the bladder, and rarely hernia of the caecum, is irreducible. In some cases of hernia of the large intestine, such as the sigmoid flexure, the mesocolon is continuous with the peritoneum forming the sac and may thus prevent complete reduction of the gut. Symptoms.—An irreducible hernia is usually a source of great incon- venience ; it has a tendency to increase if left to itself, until at last it may contain, as in some extreme cases it has been found to do, the greater portion of the abdominal viscera, forming an enormous tumour, inconvenient by its size and weight, in which the penis and scrotum are buried. Even when the irreducible hernia is of small size, it gives rise to a sensation of weakness in the part, with dragging pains, and is very frequently accompanied by colicky sensations and_ dyspeptic derangements. Moreover the patient, in these, circumstances, is in a state of considerable danger lest the rupture become strangulated by violent efforts, or injured by blows.