TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF CANCELLOUS TISSUE. i69 It become filled with pus, or the medullary tissue may become gangrenous always leads to necrosis of the osseous tissue surrounding the spaces. Rarefying Osteitis is very common in spongy bones, and forms the chief pathological change in a large proportion of the cases clinically spoken of as caries. Earefying osteitis in cancellous bone is essentially the same process as in the compact tissue. Inflammatory exudation and migration of white cor- puscles take place in the medullary tissue, and the original structures disappear before the inflammatory new growth (Fig. 505). The cancelli become gradually thinned, being absorbed in exactly the same way as the lamella of the compact tissue. A spiculum of bone removed from the inflamed area shows the same irregular excava- tions or Howship's lacunae, in most of which osteoclasts may be seen. The bone-corpuscles have frequently undergone fatty degeneration; some- times the cells in the lacunse are represented merely by oil globules. This is due to interference with the nutrition of the osseous tissue con- sequent on the changes occurring in the medulla of the cancellous spaces. Finally the bony tissue in the affected area may entirely disappear, the whole space being occupied by soft vascular granulation tissue. Osteoplastic Osteitis affects the cancellous tissue with considerable frequency. It is characterized by thickening of the cancelli by forma- tion of new bone upon them at the expense of the medullary tissue. The spongy bone thus becomes gradually denser in structure till it may closely resemble compact bone. The process of formation of the ne^Y bone is the same as in other parts. Osteoplastic osteitis of the compact tissue is often met with at the circumference of an area in which the rarefying process is going on, and thus not uncommonly a dense zone of bone is formed round a chronic abscess or a sequestrum. It is met with also in conjunction with chronic inflammatory processes in the compact tissue and in the neighbourhood of sequestra. In other cases it may occur as a sequence of the rarefactive inflammation, the formation of new bone on the cessation of that process exceeding the normal limits. Tuberculous Disease.—We have already seen that tubercle of bone may in certain instances commence as a periostitis or as an osteomyehtis. Far more common, however, is its occurrence in the cancellous tissue of the articulai- extremities of the long bones, or in that of irregular bones, such as the vertebrae and tarsus. Indeed, it is now a generally accepted fact that the different varieties of chronic inflammation of cancellous tissue—rarefactive and osteo- plastic--are in the large majority of cases dependent upon a tuberculous deposit in the bone. Microscopic examination of the granulation tissue which fills the cancellous spaces shows the characteristic appearances which have rig. 505.—Carious bone from a Case of Tuberculous Osteitis of the bones of the Skull in a child. At b are seen the so-called LacuniB of Howship: the material filliiag the dilated Cancellous spaces a is caseous granulation tissue.