CANCEB OF THE BREAST: OBJECTS OF OPERATION. 805 . Doubtful Cases.-This class includes a large proportion of cases ia vhth the d 'ease has already advanced beyond the first stage, or m which the t^^l^^oi the p'tient is in some respect unfavourable to opera- Hnn althoucrh not sufficiently altogether to contramdicate it. a. it the nlur be a°^^^^^^ to the si in, and possibly slightly fixed to the pectoral LTs le and if thei^be but moder'ate enlLgement of-illary gland, w^iicl. .. sTsitu^ted as to admit of removal, the operation ^e performe^^^ JbJ^^ the tumour has ulcerated operation may still be undertaken f the other con d ioTar favourable, and the extent of the implication of the skm does not r nder complete removal impossible. An atrophic scirrhus of long s anding and presenting the characters described at p. 797, had better be left alone, for exSc^^^ shown that operation is soon followed by recurrence, and Sens rather than prolongs life. Tn its early stages this form of the disease should be removed, for it is impossible to predict a chronic course with any certainty cl A rapidly growing tumour in a young patient with a strong Teredit^^; tamt should be removed, but the chance of speedy recurrence is great.- .. Affection of both breasts is very rare, and will usually be a contra- indication to operation. If, however, the general condition of the patient is favourable, and the disease on each side seems suitable for operation, remova of both breasts may be practised either simultaneously or with an interval between the two operations. /. If the patient be aged, weak, ansemic, or very fat, and the tumour large, it is seldom expedient to operate, as the shock may prove fatal. As a general rule, I do not think it advisable to operate after seventy years of age, unless the distress from pain or the discomfort from ulceration is so great as to render removal at any risk justifiable, ihe pro- gress of cancer in advanced age is often so slow that it is doubtful whether the expectancy of life is materially increased by operation. It must, however, be allowed that absolute rules as to age are of little practical value, tor in excision of the breast, as in other operations, the general condition ot the patient rather than the age in years must influence the Surgeon m his decision, g. Pregnancy is not a bar to the performance of any necessary operation, even of amputation of the breast. In pregnant women cancer of the breast becomes very active, hence its removal should not be delayed, if all other circumstances are favourable. Objects of Operation.—The objects proposed are, in the first place, to prevent constitutional infection by the removal of the local disease, and thus permanently to free the patient from an otherwise necessarily fatal affection ; or faihng this, to retard the progress of the constitutional infection, and thus, at least, to prolong life. In connexion with the question of the possibihty of permanent cure, it must be pointed out that all old statistics are valueless, because many cases of sar- coma and inflammatory induration were mistaken for carcinoma, and because, until recently, most Surgeons contented themselves with the removal of the mamma, leaving the axillary glands untouched unless they were obviously affected. In speaking of the cure of cancer of the breast it must be remem- bered that at no period, however long after the operation, can the patient be pronounced absolutely free from risk of recurrence. It has, however, been found that if three years have elapsed, the chance of subsequent recurrence is relatively so small that for statistical purposes cases which have passed this limit without a return of the disease are classed as " cured." Of 455 cases