1272 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. CHAPTEE LXXIV. DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. By W. A. MEREDITH, CM., M.B. Some important surgical affections of these organs, such as vesico-vaginal and recto-vagmal fistula, lacerated perineum, &c., have ah-eady been die- cussed. Tiie remaming affections, implicating the Vulva, the Vagina, the Uterus, and the Ovaries, are of the greatest practical interest ; but, as their l ull consideration would lead me far beyond the limits that can be assigned to them in this work, and indeed, belongs to another department of Medicine I must content myself with a brief indication of the principal surgical points deserving attention. INTEODUCTION OF INSTEUMENTS. Speculum Vaginae.—Vaginal specula of various shapes and materials are commonly used by Surgeons. For examination of the os and cervix uteri, the most convenient and generally adaptable instrument is the ordinary cylindrical glass speculum (Fig. 959), of which the inner mirror-like surface reflects a strong body of light into the bottom of the tube. It has the additional advantage of being readily cleansed, and is not stained by iodine solutions. A similarly shaped instrument—made of box- wood—is useful for the protection of the vaginal wall during application of the actual cautery to the cervix. For exploring the vaginal canal in cases of fistula, &c., recourse should be had to the metal duck-billed speculum, or to one or other of the bivalve varieties of this instrument. Introduction of the Speculum can readily be effected without unnecessary exposure. There are two positions in which the patient may conveniently be placed for this purpose. In the first, she lies upon her back with the nates well raised and brought to the edge of the bed or couch, ■''chicai sp^utof■ apart, and her feet resting on two chairs ; the Surgeon, standing or sitting in front of her, separates the labia with the thumb and forefinger of his left hand, and then passes the speculum gently and steadily between and under them, exerting any pressure that may be required laclcivard on the perinseum. This position is in some ways the most convenient for inspection, and for the local application of remedies; but it is often objectionable to the patient, as it appears to entail much exposure, although in reality it need not do so. The other mode of introducing the speculum, which should always be adopted when practicable, consists in placing the patient on her left side in the semi-prone position, with her left arm drawn backwards beneath her and