CHOICE OF OPERATION FOR STONE. 1095 exceptional cases, chiefly those in which the stone is very '-^f^lj^^^^l auction of the necessary instruments impracticable. At the piesen time t mp ssible to decide with certainty which plan of t^eatmen ^^all prove superior for general adoption. In the hands of a Surgeon skilled m he Xsary manipulations it may justly be concluded that 1^ ^^trity or^^ niaioritv, and suprapubic lithotomy for exceptional cases, yield results equal to. If not exceeding, those obtained by any other line of treatment. When on the other hand, a Surgeon who has had but limited e^penence of lithotr ty in the adult, is called upon to treat a case of stone in the bladder ot a chiLa, he will probably be wise to resort to lithotomy rather than to the crushing opera- tion Concerning the choice between the lateral and the suprapubic opera- tions in a case in which either is available, it may be said that no very rehable o-uidance can be obtained from statistics, which in the case of the high operation iire derived largely from cases in which it was performed on account ot the laro-e size of the stone or other unfavourable conditions. No evidence is solar forthcoming to show that the suprapubic operation is attended with a lower mortality than the lateral, when performed by practised hands, it must, however, be allowed that the suprapubic operation is the easier and requires no special manipulative skill or experience, and thus recommends itself to the general Surgeon, whose opportunities of operating for stone are limited, and who bears in mind the important fact that when a child dies after lateral lithotomy it is almost invariably as the result of some accident connected with the operation. In the treatment of large stones the high operation should certainly be preferred, as also when the case is comphcated by deformity of the outlet of the pelvis or ankylosis of the hip. Lastly, the lateral operation is said, especially in children, to leave the patient sterile, from injury to the ejaculatory ducts ; Haemstadt found that of eighteen married men in whom lateral hthotomy had been performed in childhood only one had children. The remarks which will subsequently be made regarding the influence of disease of the urinary organs in determining the choice of an operation in the adult have but little bearing in the case of children in whom the bladder and kidneys are rarely in a condition of advanced disease. In Adult Males the general question may be considered by a reference to statistics, whilst in dealing with an individual case the Surgeon is guided hi his choice chiefly by the size and character of the stone, and the condition of the urinary organs. As Thompson pointed out in his admirable course of Lectures, delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons, the only method by which we can ascertain the effect of lithotrity in reducing the mortality from stone in the bladder, is to contrast the results obtained when lithotomy was the sole operation practised with those of the present day, when lithotrity has become the rule and. the cutting operation the exception. For this purpose he contrasts the statistics • of three periods : first, when lithotomy only was performed ; secondly, the transitional period from 1835 to between 1860 and 1870, when about an equal number of cases were submitted to each operation ; and lastly, the modern period, when hthotomy has been the exception. For the first period he selects the statistics of the Norwich Hospital from 1770 to 1830, as published by Crosse. During that period 326 adult males were cut for stone ; of these 64 died, or 20 per cent. 75 cases were over 60 years of age ; of these 22 died, or 29-3 per cent. These figures correspond very closely with the