536 DEFORMITIES OF THE ARM AND HAND. the contraction continued as before, and this, therefore, could not be its seat; that the palmar fascia, which was exposed, was tense and shortened, whilst from the lower aspect some cord-like prolongations passed up by the side of tbe fingers ; and that, when these were divided, the contraction was imme- diately removed, the tendons, the bones, and the joints being perfectly sound. He considered these fibrous cords to be digital prolongations of the palmar fascia, and consequently looked upon this membrane as the seat of the disease. Goyrand, who has carefully dissected hands affected in this way, states that these fibrous cords, which he looks upon as the seat of the affection, are not prolongations of the palmar fascia, but are fibrous structures that extend from its superficial aspect to the sheaths of the flexor tendons, into which they are inserted opposite the second phalanx ; being formed by hypertrophy of bands of subcutaneous connective tissue which naturally exist in this situation. W. Anderson, who also has investigated the pathology of these cases, describes the contraction as due to " an inflammatory hyperplasia commencing in the subcutaneous tissue of the palm, involving the skin and fascia secondarily, and replacing tbe adipose connective tissue which normally serves as an elastic cushion I'or the palmar surface of the hand and fingers." The fact, therefore, remains certain that the flexor tendons have nothing to do with this special form of finger contraction, but that it is due entirely to fibrous cords from the digital divisions of the palmar fascia ; and, as Adams has pointed out, the insertion of these digital prolongations of the fascia into the periosteum of the second phalanx readily explains the drawing down of that bone. The Diagnosis of cases of digital contraction, so far as the deformity is concerned, is obvious, and requires no comment; so far as the cause is con- cerned, it is not so easy. Is it tendinous or fascial ? Wlien tendijious, the contracted tendon can be followed up to and above the wrist as a tense cord, and by flexing the wrist the contracted finger can be partly or completely straightened. When fascial, the tendon cannot be clearly defined, but the palmar structures are dense, thickened, and incorporated together, forming distinct ridges and sulci; flexion of the wrist does not allow the contracted finger to be straightened. This true digital contraction must not be confounded with the " arthritis dijformans" which often distorts the weather-beaten hands of labouring men and sailors. In these cases all the fingers are bent inwards, and more or less twisted to the ulnar side, so that the hand presents a claw-like appearance, the mischief evidently affecting the joints. Treatment.—The treatment of digital contractions is purely mechanical and operative. The progress of the disease may be retarded, and some benefit obtained by the use of finger-splints applied to the dorsal aspect, and provided with elastic tractors. The kind of operation must be determined by the patho- lo<''ical cause of the disease. If the case be one of contraction of the flexor muscle and tendon, tenotomy may be performed, but in Dupuytren's contrac- tion the tendon and its sheath must not be touched, but the contracted structures outside them must be cut across. Adams, recognizing the true pathology of this affection (Fig. G33), has devised a successful means of remedying it by subcutaneous operation, which should as far as possible be employed instead of an open incision. The plan consists in making multiple subcutaneous divisions of the fascia and its digital prolongations. For this purpose he uses the smallest possible tenotome—little