I'JiACIJSOTOin-: DIFFICULTIES AND ACCIDENTS. 747 thoroughly cleaning the trachea before attempting to "P^'-^ /''^f ertinAhe hook in the «-ay already desoribed, and drawing it ^^-^ll W'"^'"^; Ed ards recommended that a sharp hook gloved on its convexity (F,g^ 70 should be introduced under the cricoid cartdage, and th and oceued by sliding the scalpel along the groove and cutting do""™™*- have'^occa^ nally used the cutting hook (Fig. 766) and jome Surg^ s prefer, instead of the scalpel, to open the trachea wrth «f' a trochar carrying a cannula in the shape of a trachea-tube ; >™t th se ms r» ments, though ingenious, are not so safe or easy of management as the scalpel "a Mslbkatcident at this stage of the operation is wound of the oesophagus This is avoided by steadying the wrist on the sternum while making the Fig. 765. —Trachea-hook-Dii-ector. incision, by drawing the trachea well forward with the sharp hook, and by holding'the knife by the blade so that not more than half an inch projects beyond the finger and thumb. I have heard of a case in which, for want ot these precautions, not only was the oesophagus wounded, but at the post- mortem examination the mark of the knife was found upon the bodies ot three of the cervical vertebra. In rare cases the mucous membrane of the trachea has been pushed before the knife, but this is practically impossible if the hook be used as described ou p. 744, and if the point of the knife be properly sharp. In cases of diphtheria in which the false membrane forms a distinct tube lining the trachea, it may be pushed before the point of the knife, and thus, if the tube be inserted' at once, no air may enter. This accident is avoided by adopting Cutting Trachea-liook. the plan of holding the wound in the trachea open with a dilator, and re- moving all membrane that can be seen before introducing the tube. 4. After the trachea has been opened, the next point is to Introduce a proper TuTie. In doing this, special care must be taken not to push the tube into a sort of pouch w^hich always exists at the lower angle of the wound, between the trachea and the deep fascia of the neck. This eiTor is not only embarrassing to the Surgeon, but dangerous to the patient by the delay it occasions, by the compression exercised on the trachea below the opening into it, and by the suction of blood into the aperture in the air-tube. It is best avoided by expanding the tracheal opening with the dilator (Fig. 7fiD), and passing the tube between the blades of that instrument, or by adopting the method already described of inserting the sharp hook parallel to the line of incision instead of above it. In passing the tube into the trachea some difficulty may be experienced, owing to the elasticity of the sides of the