4-' DISEASES OF THE JAWfl'JIATW SYSTEM. that it owes its origin to some cause which is similarly distributed. Manson has indeed brought forward the strongest evidence to show that the disease results from tlie presence in the lymphatics of a small nematoid worm—the lilaria sanguinis hominis nocturna. The adult parasites exist in some part of the lymphatic system, and the embryo filariae are set free in the lymph, and in many cases enter the blood-stream. Manson has pointed out the remarkable fact that the embryo filariae are found only in blood drawn during the night, and he has also proved that the t'ui'ther development of the embryos occurs in the body of the mosquito. Amongst the conditions which are undoubtedly caused by this parasite in man may be especially mentioned chyhiria, lymph scrotum, and a peculiar form of enlargement of the glands of the groin. In lymph scrotum there is some enlargement of the part with general dilatation of the lymphatics, which appear as " herpes-like vesicles," or larger " ampulla;," from Avhich a clear or milky fluid escapes. An explanation of these conditions is probably to be found in an obstruction of the thoracic duct with consequent regurgitation of chyle into other lymphatic channels. In some cases of lymph scrotum and other local forms of lymphatic enlargement the fluid which escapes is clear and no filariae are found in the blood. Embryo filariae are, however, found in the lymph and in addition free ova which are supposed to block -the lymphatic glands and so cause the dilatation of all the lymphatic vessels behind the obstruction. Of the many arguments which Manson has adduced to prove the filarial origin of elephantiasis Arabum may be especially mentioned :— 1. The geographical distribution of the parasite and the disease correspond. 2. The history of many cases of" elephantiasis of the scrotum suggests that it began as a lymph scrotum. 3. Elephantiasis is frequently associated with other diseases koiown to be- caused by the filaria. The absence of filarige from the blood in most cases- can be explained by supposing that the glands receiving the lymphatics of the aflected region are completely blocked. Treatm!ent.—The treatment of elephantiasis of the leg is unsatisfactory, but considerable relief can be afi'orded by elevation of the iimb and the application of an elastic bandage. In severe cases it has been recommended to diminish the supply of arterial blood to the limb by compression of the femoral artery as first suggested by Dufour, or by ligature of the vessel as recommended by Carnochan. In certain cases some improvement has followed both these methods of treatment, but at the present day they seem to have been generally abandoned. Manson states that he has several times dissected oil' strips of the thickened skin, in the direction of the long axis of the limb. with the object of diminishing the bulk of the limb and of preventing further enlargement by the contraction of the resulting cicatrices. In ex- tensive cases of elephantiasis of the scrotum removal of the part may vcry Fig. 423.—Elephantiasis of tlie Scrotum.