1037 SYMPTOMS OF CALCULUS. lies in a depression behind this gland ; and hence, being prevented from being squeezed by the neck of the bladder in consequence of imperfect contraction, occasions less suffering than in other cases. In consequence of the irritation of the stone occasioning chronic inflamma- tion of the vesical mucous membrane, there is an Increased Frequency of Micturition, more by day than at night. The urine is passed in small quantities at a time, usually contains some mucus or pus, and is occasionally tinged with blood, or loaded with thick mucus ; but in many cases it remains remarkably clear. Albumen from blood or pus is commonly present, and in the later stages, when the kidney becomes aflFected, it may come from that source also. The presence of blood in the urine is often one of the earliest signs of stone in the bladder, and in children especially should lead to the suspicion of calculus. It may be in large quantities, and may continue for many weeks, especially in tl)e earlier stages. The urine may then clear as the bladder becomes accustomed to the presence of the stone, and the blood may reappear only under the influence of active movement, or of any cause of increased irritation of the organ. But it is important to observe that the quantity of albumen, as shown by boiling the urine, will be very great when- ever even a trace of blood is present. It very rarely happens that a stone has exisied for any time without the urine becoming occasionally streaked or tinged by blood. An occasional Stoppage in the Plow of Urine before the bladder is emptied owing to the stone being impelled against its neck, and thus blocking up the urethra, is a common symptom in children, but very rare in adults. On the patient lying on his back or on his side, the stream flows again, the situation of the calculus being changed. As a result of the straining and general irritation about the genito-urinary organs, Prolapsus of the Rectum, accompanied by Tenesmus, is by no means uncommon, especially in children ; and in some cases there is very troublesome Priapism. Stone in Elderly Men often gives rise to but feebly marked symptoms ; a fact which has been specially called attention to by Thompson. He states that partly from diminished sensibility of the bladder in elderly men, and partly from the frequency with which a moderately enlarged prostate may mask the symptoms, many a man may carry a uric acid calculus for three or four years with little or no inconvenience, so that the presence of the stone may easily be overlooked till it attains such a size as to make its removal a serious and possibly a dangerous operation. In these cases the symptoms he regards as most characteristic are slight pricking or smarting at and near the end of the penis, often but not invariably felt during and after the close of micturition, and increased frequency of micturition, less felt at night, and more manifest in the day, especially during exercise ; but if the patient lead a very quiet life this symptom may be wanting. Florid blood in small quanti- ties may appear after more violent exercise, or jolting from any cause. The urine is acid and clear, and often deposits urates. By sounding the patient when these symptoms are present, a small stone may often be "detected and removed without appreciable risk. Stone in Children.—The symptoms in children present few peculiarities, except that the patient is often unable clearly to describe what he feels. Pain on movement is indicated by the child's disinclination to play or run about.