URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. I034 W ounces. Deschamps saw one of 51 ounces, and Morand one weighing G lbs. : none of those admitted of removal Tiioinpson has successfully re- moved one weighing 14 ounces, and W. Rivington one weighing 23, which had to be broken up in the bladder ; whilst Milton of Cairo extracted a stone weighing nearly 34i ounces by abdominal section, the patient dying two and a half months afterwards of renal disease. The largest calculi are usually composed chiefly of phosphates. Large and heavy calculi are certainly less frequently met with now than formerly, owing to operations for stone being simpler and less dreaded since the introduction of ansesthetics, and hence practised in an earlier stage of the disease. The Hardness of calculi varies considerably : the oxalate of lime is the hardest ; the uric acid comes next, and is often very hard, though brittle ; the phosphatic calculi are always comparatively soft. The Shape of calculi presents great variety ; most commonly, however, they have an ovoid figure. Concretions of uric acid and urate of ammonium are generally pretty regularly ovoidal, smooth, and disc-like. Those com- Pig. 84(5.—Exterior of Bladdei-, containing an Encysted Calcnlus at ft : 6, Ui'eter. Fig 847.—Interior of tlie same Bladder, showing small Orifice leading into Cyst at a : h, Ureter. posed of oxalate of lime are usually somewhat globular or square-shaped, and generally rough, nodulated, or spiculated upon the surface. The phosphatic calculi present often the most irregular outline ; most commonly, it is true, they are ovoid or globular, but are not unfrequeutly branched, as if moulded to the interior of a sacculated bladder, constricted, or of an hour-glass shape. The cystine calculi are generally tolerably oval and regular in outhne. Position.—Most frequently calcuH lie loose in the bladder ; but occasionally they may be fixed, either by being encysted, and then lying in one of the sacculi that have already been described within the walls of the bladder (Figs. 846 and 847) ; or by being impacted in one of the ureters ; or, in other cases by being partly included in villous or mahguaut growths. Causes.—Whenever a foreign body of any kind, as a piece of broken catheter, &c., is introduced into the bladder, it will form the nucleus of a calculus, speedily becoming encrusted by calculous phosphatic matter. i3ut the causes of calculi occurring spontaneously are very obscure. There can be little doubt, it is true, that the different forms of concretion are connected with the various general and local conditions that have already been describca;