DUFUYTEEN'S CONTRACTION OF THE FINGERS. 53-5 Paralysis of the Extensors and Supinators, owing to the injury of the musculo-spiral nerve consequent on fracture of the humerus, has been described in Vol. I., p. 593. 111,1, Clnb-hand.—A deformity resembUng club-foot is occasionally, though rarely, met with in the hand. The contraction may occur in two directions : either in the sense of preternatural flexion, or in that of abnormal extension of the member. Ic has been described by Cruveilhier, Yoillermier, and Smith of Dublin. In most of the cases that have been met with, there was a certain amount of deformity of the lower end of the radius, with congenital dislocation of the wrist; and in Smith's case there was an accessory semilunar bone in the carpus. In other cases it has been caused by congenital absence of the radius. Little, if anything, can be done by surgery for the relief of this defo)-mity. Arthritis Deformans or Rheumatoid Arthritis of the hand is a common affection. In this condition, the fingers which are thickened and stiffened are partially bent towards the palm, and at the same time turned towards the ulnar side. The articulations are swollen, and in the earlier stages painful. The disease rarely occurs before middle age. It is more common in elderly people, and especially those of the labouring class, whose hands have been much exposed to the weather, with the fingers bent as in holding reins or agricultural implements. The deformity is permanent and incurable. Dupuytren's Contraction of the Fingers.—One or more fingers may be bent in consequence of injury of the flexor tendons ; the skin and fascial structures of the palm remaining sound with the exception of some cicatricial tissue. Such a contraction is incurable, as a portion of the tendon has probably sloughed away. In the true digital contraction, commonly called Dupuyiren's contraction—its pathology having been pointed out by that great Surgeon in 1832—the tendons and their sheaths are unaffected, the deformity being due to changes taking place in the fascial structures outside them. Most commonly this commences in the little finger, and thence gradually extends to the ring and middle fingers, which become so forcibly and firmly flexed, that their extension is not practicable. The thumb and index finger ai-e much less commonly affected. This deformity is very rare in females, and is most commonly met with in males after forty. It has very generally been supposed that the condition results from frequent and continued pressure on the palm of the hand, as in leaning on a round-ended stick in walking, or in those trades in which an instrument is pressed into the hollow of the hand. This, however, seems doubtful ; it certainly often occurs without any apparent exciting cause. In some cases I have found it associated with a rheumatic or gouty diathesis, and Lockwood has demonstrated the presence of uric acid crystals in the thickened fascia removed by operation. On examining the contracted fingers, projecting ridges will be felt extending from the palm to their anterior aspects ; and on endeavouring to straighten them, these ridges will be found to become stretched, and the palmar fascia to be rendered tense. The skin covering these fascial ridges is at first free, but after a time becomes adherent to them. So firmly are the fingers contracted, that by no effort can they be extended. Pathology.—Dupuytren found on dissecting a hand which was the seat of this disease, that after the removal of the skin, which was loose and flaccid,