Ee it • in a congenital hernia, if the sac is tense the testicle cannot be Uuinal hernia, the tenser the sac the more clearly is the testicle seen and felt (CONGENITAL MaUINAL HERNIA. 869 ■ K all ' On inquh-y, also, it will sometimes be found either that the henna has existed in childhood, or that the testis is still in the canal, or has descended l-iter than usual. A hernia in the tunica vaginalis may be associated with a a.naenital hydrocele. In these cases, after the fluid has been returned into the peritoneal cavity by directing the patient to lie on his back and raising the scrotum, the portion of protruded gut may be felt and recognised by its •ruro-le and upward slip when reduced/ This hernia may be associated with Thelestis, either undescending or lyin^ at the external abdominal ring. In the first case, the hernia is, of course, incomplete ; in the second, it is scrotal. \\'hen incomplete, the. diagnosis may be made by feeling a soft svvelhng with the ordinary hernial signs above the testis. When symptoms of strangulated hernia occur in a person in whom the testes hare not descended into the scrotum, the diagnosis may be very difficult,. An ,.blon6- or rounded tumour, tense and painful, will be found to occupy the ino-uinal canal, not passing beyond the . external ring, with some abdominal tenderness, and possibly nausea and constipation. The question here arises as to the nature of this tumour : Is it simply an inflamed undescended testis ? ' Or is it an undescended testis, inflamed or not, as the case may be, having a knuckle of strangulated intestine lying behind it ? When the tumour consists chiefly of an inflamed undescended testis, the pain will be of that peculiar character which is indicative of orchitis, and the constitutional symptoms of strangulation, however simulated for a time, will not be persistently present. The following case is a good illustration of this condition. A man, aged about forty, said to be labouring under strangulated hernia, was sent up from the country for operation. On being called to him, I found the house-surgeon attempting the reduction of the tumour in the hot bath. The history showed that:-the. patient had for the previous two days suffered from occasional vomituag, and had been constipated ; that the tumour in the groin had not appeared suddenly, though it had enlarged with great rapidity ; that it was excessively painf ul; and that he had always worn a truss for a supposed rupture on that side, until the last few weeks, when, in conse- quence of the instrument breaking, he had discontinued it. On examination, a tumour about as large as the fist was found in the right inguinal canal : it was tender to the touch, hard, and irregular at the upper and outer part, .but somewhat soft and fluctuating below ; when the finger was passed into the external ring, the outline of the tumour could be very distinctly felt in the canal. There was no impulse in it on coughing, but there was some abdominal tenderness on that side. The right testis was not in the scrotum. I ordered the man to be bled, the tumour to be leeched, and salines administered : under this treatment the case did well. When a knuckle of strangulated intestine lies behind and above the testis, still retained above the external ring, the symptoms of strangulation will be violent and persistent ; and this, even though the tumour present but little the ordinary character of a hernia. In fact, in such a case, the Surgeon is guided by the character of the general symptoms, and not by those of the local condition. In a case of this kind to which I was called, there could be felt behind and above an inflamed and swollen testicle which lay at the external abdominal ring, a small, hard, round tumour in the upper portion of the canal. As symptoms of strangulation