643 CrSTS OF THE LOWER JAW. with tumours of the alveolar borders and of the upper maxilla ; they are, however, all more common in the lower jaw than in the upper. Cysts of the Lower Jaw.—Cysts of various kinds are met with in both jaws, but they are mostly more common in the lower than the upper. In connexion with the teeth two varieties of single cysts occur—the " dental" and " dentigerous" ; whilst a somewhat rare form of disease is met witli, known as the " multilocular cystic tumour." Denial cysts are defined by Heath as " cysts originating in connexion with fully developed teeth." Of these the simplest variety is the small cyst, seldom more than a quarter of an inch in diameter, which is occasionally found attached to the fang of a tooth on extraction. These cysts are developed beneath the periosteum of the fang, and hence have been termed ''periosteal cysts." Tomes believes that they are of inflammatory origin, and the fact that their contents have the appearance of inspissated pus bears out this view. According to Heath these periosteal cysts are most commonly connected with the incisor or canine teeth of the upper jaw. Single cysts containing a glairy or mucous fluid, in which cholesterine crystals are often seen, are also met with in both jaws. In the upper jaw they may extend into the antrum aud in the lower jaw they cause a slow painless enlargement of a limited portion of the bone. At first the fluid is surrounded by a solid bony wall, through which no fluctuation can be felt, and in this stage they have been mistaken for solid tumours. As the wall becomes thintier fluctuation and eggshell crackling can be felt. The mode of origin of these cysts is not clear, and in many instances no actual connexion with the teeth can be traced. la soma cases an epithelial lining has been demonstrated, and it has been suggested that they arise from remains of the epithelium of the enamel organ which have been shown by Malassez to exist in the jaw. Dentiyerous cysts are much more common in the lower jaw than in the ujiper. They arise in connexion with imperfectly developed teeth which have been retained in the jaw. In the large majority of cases one of the perma- nent set of teeth is missing in the position of the tumour ; very rarely the cysts arise in connexion with the temporary or with supernumerary teeth. Dentigerous cysts may occur at any age, but are most common in young adults. In the upper jaw they may form cysts in the antrum ; in the lower jaw they expand the bone in the manner above described. The smooth wall of the cyst is lined with epithelium, and the contents are usually clear fluid. The more or less perfectly developed tooth may lie free in the cavity ; or more usually it is embedded in the wall of the cyst, sometimes in an inverted position. Less frequently several rudimentary teeth are present. The exact mode of origin of these dentigerous cysts is doubtful. Tomes believes that they arise from the excessive formation around a retained tooth of a fluid which is normally found after the complete development of the enamel, between it and the soft tissues covering it. The treatment consists in cuttinsr away part of the wall of the cyst from within the mouth, and removing the retained teeth. The inner surface should then be scraped and treated with chloride of zinc (40 grains to the ounce) to destroy the lining. The size of the cavity which is left to granulate can often be much lessened by pressing together its expanded walls with the fingers. Multilocular cysts, which have also been described under the names of cystic sarcoma, adenoma, and fibro-cystic tumours. of the jaw, althouo-h T T 2