CLEFT PALATE. incision, c d, upA-ards and outwards parallel to, and corresponding in length to, A B. The flaps formed by these incisions are represented in Fig. 729. They are detached from their subjacent connexions ; and the whole is raised upwards, so that the curved incision, a b, comes into a horizontal hne, and is made to constitute the margin of the new lip ; the secondary incisions, b c, coming together in a vertical direction, in which they are retained by twisted and interrupted sutures (Fig. 730). The raw surfaces from which the flaps are raised are left to heal by granulation, and this forms an objection to the operation, as the contraction of the sores tends to draw the new lip downwards. Syme therefore recommended a somewhat different mode of operating. In- stead of the incisions c d being made, those marked b c are carried onwards for some distance in a direction curving downwards and outwards, so that they Kg. 731.—Syme's method of restoring the Fig. 732.—Symc's method of restoring the Lower Lip. Lines of Incision. Lower Lip. Operation completed. terminate below the angles of the jaw (Fig. 731). The flaps so formed are raised and united in the middle line, as in Buchanan's operation, the /\-shaped portion of skin above the chin serving to maintain them in position and pre- vent their sliding downwards (Fig. 732). The long curved incisions enable this to be done by merely stretching the convex edges of the flaps, without sufficiently displacing them to prevent their readily meeting the concave edges of intervening skin, and being united to them by sutures. No surface is therefore left to granulate, and the whole wound heals by the first intention. In performing this operation it is essential to success that the incisions should be sufficiently free, so that the flaps may be brought into position without tension. If the chin be removed as well as the lower hp, it becomes very difficult to restore the loss, as there is no fixed point below to support the new hp, which consequently tends to sink downwards. PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE PALATE. Various degrees of congenital deformity may occur in the palate and uvula : thus the uvula alone may be bifid ; or the cleft may extend through the greater part or the whole of the soft palate ; or the hard palate may be divided as well (Fig. 733); and, lastly, the separation may extend forwards to the mteguments of the face, producing single or double hare-lip (Fig. 716). The soft palate and uvula are not unfrequently cleft without the hard palate being divided ; and, in some very rare cases, the lip and the hard palate are fissured