537 HAMMER FINGER. Fig. 033.—Dupuytren's Contraction (after Adams). . larger than a cataract-needle ; with this instrument about four subcutaneous I incisions are made to each finger, not more than one or two fingers being . operated on at a time. The first puncture is made in the palm just above the I transverse flexion-crease at a point where the skin is least adherent. By the second puncture, the same cord should be divided between the flexion-crease F; and the web of the fingers. The third and fourth punctures should be made so as to divide the digital prolongations of the fascia. Immediate extension is then made, and the tingers kept straight on a padded metal splint. In performing this operation the Surgeon must be careful not to carry his incisions or punctures too deeply into the palm, lest the superficial palmar arch or one of its branches be divided. The guide ro the commencement of the digital prolongations from the palmar fascia is the transverse flexion-fold in the palm. This—as Adams has pointed out- corresponds exactly with the line of the metacarpo- iihalangeal articulations, and is of course well in advance of the superficial palmar arch. By keeping the highest incisions near to this line, no danger to 1 this artery need be feared. Should it be found to be impossible to straighten the fingers with such limited incisions, or should the skin be firmly adherent to the subjacent fibrous band, it has been recommended to make a crucial incision through the skin, to turn the flap back, divide or dissect off the fascial bands from the sheaths of the tendons, and straighten the fingers. As the flexor tendons are not primarily affected, they must not be divided. After the operation, the hand should be placed on a digitated splint and the Hugers kept extended. This mode of treatment can only be attempted as a last resource in a useless hand, as the prospect of success is not great. Contraction of the finger backwards is of very rare occurrence. I have seen only one such case, in a lady in whom the little finger of one hand had a crescentic curve backwards; the ring-finger was also slightly affected. This condition, which was permanent for many years, obstinately resisting all treatment, mechanical and constitutional, appeared to be due to chronic neuritis of the cords of the brachial plexus, consequent on a fall on the back of the head and neck. The name Hammer Finger has appropriately been given to a condition occasionally met with in the hand, similar to and sometimes associated with the deformity known as " hammer-toe." The condition usually occurs in early life, and is characterized by flexion of the interphalangeal joints of the linger with usually slight over-extension of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. It is generally met with in girls, and usually afi'ects the little finger. W. .Vdams has pointed out that in the early stages passive extension of the finger is possible, but that this gradually becomes impossible on account of the contraction of the skin and fascia in front of the joints. Anderson found the anterior part of the lateral ligaments tense, and believes this to be the cause of the deformity. If the finger can be ex:tended the treatment should consist in applying a