14 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. operations which will be described when we come to speak of the Surgery of the Face. 2. If the patient objects to the use of the knife the ulcer may be best destroyed by the application of chloride of zinc paste to the whole of its surface. The best mode of a]jplying this is to keep the chloi-ide prepared for use, mixed with two or three parts of flour. When wanted, a sufficient quantity of this powder should be made into a stiff paste, by the addition of a little water, and then spread over the surface to be attacked by it, in a layer of about the thickness of a wafer; this should be left on for two or three hours, and then removed, the sore being covered with a wet dressing until the greyish slough that has been produced has separated, when the caustic may be re-applied as often as necessary. Besides the chloride of zinc, various other caustics may be had recourse to, each of which possesses some peculiar advan- tages. Nitric acid is useful, if the action required is not to be very deep ; for, as it hardens and coagulates the tissues to which it is applied, it does not extend so far as the chloride. In some cases very marked benefit has been obtained by the repeated application of Salicylic Collodion (" Solvine "). If the ulcer is situated on the face the extract of Indian hemp contained in the preparation may be omitted, so as to make it colourless. Further observation is required before the value of this mode of treatment can be determined, but as a few weeks' delay is of little moment in rodent ulcer, it may always be tried in the early stages. If its application is painful the surface may pre- viously be numbed by means of cocaine. 3. When the ulcer has attained a large size, when it is complicated in its outline, and irregular in its depth, something may yet be done to prolong Ufe and to relieve suflPering, even if no cure be ultimately to be expected. Moore proved that, unless the brain be implicated, or some large vessel involved, treatment may at least arrest the rapidity of the growth. The method which he adopted was a combined use of the knife and of chloride of zinc. By these means he removed in some cases the whole of the alfected parts, leaving a huge chasm in the face, and even in one case exposing the dura mater for a considerable extent over the roof of the orbit. The operations were done on no regular plan, the incisions being directed solely by the shape of the growth, and no attempt was made to repair the deformity left. The results of these operations were, on the whole, favourable. Out of six cases three recovered, and the others were decidedly benefited, though not permanently cured. In all the cases in which the chloride of zinc came into actual contact with the dura mater, epileptiform fits occurred, but only of a temporary character. When the disease is so extensive, or so situated,'that absolutely nothing in the way of operation can be done, the Surgeon must content himself with cover- ing the raw surfece with lint soaked in glycerine and water, and protected by oiled silk. Iodoform, either dusted on or applied as an ointment composed of one drachm of the powder to an ounce of vaseline to which a small quantity of eucalyptus oil may be added, will usually be found the best application. Secondary Carcinoma of the Skin may arise by direct extension fi-om a primary growth or from a secondary tumour. The most marked examples are commonly met with in cancer of the breast. In this disease, after the primary tumour has reached the surface, numerous smooth, elevated tubercles of a dusky red or brownish colour may appear dotted in the skin