PEECHLORIDE OF IRON—ERGOTIN. i49 The general results of the published cases have not been unfavourable when we consider the hopeless nature of the cases in which the operation has been performed. Ciniselli asserts that of 18 cases of aneurism of the aorta treated by his method, five were cured, and no evil consequences followed in any case. Of the same number which have been operated on in this country during the last few years, none have been cured, but at least six experienced more or less relief ; and in almost all, it may be said, the operation aimed only at relief, the disease being too advanced to warrant any hope of cure. About sixty other cases of aneurism of various arteries have been collected by Ciniselli as having been operated on before 1868 ; but in these the methods used were so imperfect, that they cannot be fairly considered as bearing upon the question at the present time, . When we compare galvano-puncture with ligature or compression in the treatment of external aneurism, it is, I think, impossible to hesitate for a moment in giving a decided preference to the latter modes of treatment, as the results that have hitherto been obtained from the former are not such as would justify a prudent Surgeon in submitting his patient to an operation of this kind, when he possesses such certain and comparatively safe modes of treat- ment as deligatiou or compression. In internal aneurisms, or in those cases in which the disease is so situated at the root of the neck that the artery can neither be ligatured with safety nor compressed, galvano-puncture is certainly justifiable, especially when conjoined with proper medical treatment, as we have ample proof that with the knowledge and means now at our disposal we can perform the operation with scarcely any danger to the patient, and in favourable cases with some hope of relief. Much will depend upon the selection of the case. Ciniselli has pointed out that the conditions favourable to success, are that the aneurism shall be sacculated and opening into the vessel by a narrow mouth, of slow growth and of medium size, and, when thoracic, situated entirely within the thorax, and that it shall not in any serious way have interfered with the general health of the patient. These conditions seldom occur ; and when they are absent, the most that can be hoped for is temporary arrest of the progress of the disease and some relief to the patient's sufferings. Injection with Perchloride of Iron.—The injection of aneurismal sacs with a solution of perchloride of iron has also been practised, with the view of coagulating their contents, but such treatment is attended with considerable risk of embolism and may give rise to inflammation and suppuration. Its employment would, therefore, be suggested only in cases in which either from the situation of the aneurism, or its complication with extensive disease of the arterial system, neither proximal nor distal ligature nor compression is appHcable, and in these probably the introduction of foreign bodies into the sac or galvano-puncture would be less dangerous and equally likely to be successful, aamgee has suggested the injection of fibrin-ferment into the sac, while the circulation through it is arrested by pressure, as a means of deter- mining coagulation. This has been once practised by Southam in a case of iliac aneurism, but without success. Hypodermic Injection of Ergotin.—Langenbeck advocated the hypo- dermic use of a watery extract of ergot in cases of aneurism, under the impres- sion that it might act on the muscular fibres scattered over the sac of the aneurism in the same way as it acts on the muscular fibres of the uterus, and