66o PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE NOSE. have ceased before the cut edges are brought into contact, and that no tension or constriction be exercised. A principal source of failure in the operation in gangrene of the flap, in whole or in part, arising from the root being too narrow or too tightly twisted, or from the flap being too roughly handled in its dissection. 80 also, if it be cut too small and not properly supported after wards, the result will not be very satisfactory. Other accidents occasionallv happen : thus, erysipelas may destroy the vitality of the new nose, as happened in one of Listen's earlier cases ; or the new nose may be destroyed by a return of the Uipus which proved destructive to the old one. Hsemorrhage also may occur from underneath the flap. In the last case operated on by Liston just before his death, and whicli was completed by Morton at University College Hospital, hemorrhage to the extent of more than a pint took place on the ninth day, without any evident cause, from under the flap, and could be arrested only by plugging. Further, the operation is not without its dangers. Fig. 709.—Patient before Rliinoplasty. Fig. 71C.—Same Parient some montlis after Operation. Dieffenbach lost two patients out of six on whom he operated ; their con- stitutions having probably been in an unfavourable state. The operation as just described will usually be attended with very satisfactory results. Of late years some modifications have been introduced into it. Thus, Langenbeck recommended that the periosteum should be dissected up from the frontal bone together with the skin-flap, in order that, by the after-development of osseous tissue, a firmer and better organ should be left. The objections to this operation are that in reflecting the pericranium the vitality of the flap is liable to be damaged; that there may be some risk of necrosis, although this is probably small; and especially that the pericranium is now known to have very little bone-producing power. Even if a bony layer were formed inside the nose, it seems to me that it would be rather a dis- advantage than otherwise. The operation practised by Oilier appears to me to be less happy than many of that excellent Surgeon's suggestions. It consists in cutting down the nasal process of the superior maxilla, and then bending it across so as to form a kind of bridge, on which to sustain the tegumeuto-pericranial flap deflected from the forehead. But by doing this the lateral supports