22 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. colchiciim is the best remedy ; when it is more chronic, and the pain is chiefly nocturnal, iodide of potassium may advantageously be fr'wQw. SCIATICA. The characteristic feature of sciatica is pain of a neuralgic character in the course of the great sciatic nerve. The affection is believed in the great majority of cases to be due to chronic rheumatic inflammation of the sheath of the nerve, and some thickening of the epineurium has been recognized after death in a few instances. In other cases pain of a similar character may be the result of pressure on the nerve by tumours in the pelvis or gluteal region, or occasionally from affection of the cord or disease of the spine in the lower lumbar or sacral region. Sciatica is much more common in males than in females, and occurs most frequently between forty and fifty. It frequently arises from exposure to cold or damp. The Sijmpfoms of sciatica are pain in the buttock, the back of the thigh, and the leg below the knee. The pain may amount merely to uneasiness, or be intense and paroxysmal. It is usually aggravated by movement, often to such an extent as to render locomotion impossible. When the pain extends to the foot it is felt chiefly on the outer side, the inner being supplied by the long saphenous nerve from the lumbar plexus. By pressing with the point of the finger, tenderness will be found in the course of the nerve. This is most marked in the hollow between the trochanter and the tuberosity of the ischium, and down the back of the thigh. The external popliteal nerve is also sometimes acutely tender where it winds round the upper end of the fibula. When the patient is lying on his back, if the limb be raised with the knee extended, acute pain is felt in the buttock as soon as the sciatic nerve becomes tense. If now the knee be flexed so as to relax the nerve, flexion of the hip can be carried considerably further without pain. JsTumbness in some of the parts supplied by the nerve is not uncommon, especially on the outer side of the foot. Motor paralysis never results from simple sciatica, but there may be some weakness or even wasting of the limb from want of use. The affection is very chronic, often lasting many weeks or even months. ' The Diagnosis of sciatica is made by attention to the symptoms just described. It is most frequently confounded with strumous disease or chronic rheumatic arthritis of the hip. The distinction is in most cases easily made by observing that the movements of the hip-joint are ft-ee and unaccompanied by pain, unless flexion is carried to such an extent as to render the nerve tense. In rheumatoid arthritis the grating felt in the joint on movement will usually indicate the nature of the disease ; with the " lightning pains " of locomotor ataxy it must not be confounded. In all cases of sciatica a careful examina- tion of the buttock must be made for a tumour in that region : the lower part of the spine must be examined for signs of caries, and the fiuger might be passed into the rectum to feel for a pelvic tumour, as in these conditions local treatment directed to the course of the nerve could be of but little use. Treatment.—The constitutional treatment already recommended for rheu- matic neuritis must be adopted. The limb must be wrapped in flannel Counter-irritation along the line of the nerve in the early stages by mustard plasters, and later on by blisters is most useful. The application of a long strip of capsicum-rubber plaster along the line of the nerve oiten has a good