2o6 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. it is stated tliat the nrteiy communicated siicli distinct pulsation to the nerve- trunk, that there was no means of ascertaining whether it was tlie vessel or not, except by passing the needle under it. Puncture of the pleura in passing the needle is not usually recognized as one of the dangers of ligature of the third part of the artery. It may, however, take place, especially if the needle is passed close to the scalenus anticus and from above, as must often be the case when the clavicle is much raised. Ligature behind the Scalenus anticus.—If the sac encroach upon the neck, rising above the clavicle, or the artery be not sound in the third part of its course, it may be necessary to ligature it behind the scalenus anticus, dividing the outer half or two-thirds of the muscle. This operation should not be considered as distinct from ligature of the vessel in the third part of its course, but rather as an extension of that proceeding, if it be found, for the reasons just mentioned, unadvisable to tie the artery on the first rib ; in this way it was practised by Dupuytren and Liston. In its first steps, as far as the exposure of the scalenus anticus, it is the same as that for the deligation of the vessel in the third part of its course. When this muscle has been exposed, it may be partially or completely divided by picking up the fibres with forceps and dividing them with a scalpel held horizontally. During this part of the operation, some danger may be incurred by the phrenic nerve, and the transverse cervical and suprascapular arteries ; but if ordinary care be taken, this will not be very great. The phrenic nerve lies altogether to the tracheal side of the incision, if that be not carried beyond one-half the breadth of the muscle; and should it appear to be in the way, it may readily be pushed inwards towards the mesial line, being only loosely invested by areolar tissue. I have, however, seen one instance in which the right subclavian artery was hgatured for a spontaneous aneurism of the axilla, and the patient died on the eighth day, of pneumonia ; on examination after death, the edge of the scalenus was found cut, and the phrenic nerve divided. Had the injury to the nerve in this case anything to do with the pneumonia ? I do not think it im- probable ; as division of one phrenic nerve, by paralysing to a certain extent the diaphragm, and so far interfering with the respiratory movements, must necessarily have a tendency to induce congestion of the lung, which would predispose to inflammation of that organ. I have likewise heard of one case in which incessant hiccough followed this operation, and after death the phrenic nerve was found reddened and inflamed, having probably been inter- fered with in some way during the exposure of the vessel. The transverse cervical and suprascapular arteries may be avoided by keeping the incision in the muscle between and parallel to these vessels. Another important point in reference to the ligature of the vessel m this part of its course is, that in five cases out of six on the right side and in one- half on the left, the superior intercostal arises from the subclavian artery between the scaleni. When this is the case, there would probably be but a slender chance of the occlusion of the artery by ligature in this situation. Godlee has recently tied the second part of the left subclavian successfully for axillary aneurism. The third part was so dilated and soft that it was not thought safe to apply a ligature to it. The scalenus anticus was therefore completely divided, and a ligature composed of four strands of the finest chromic catgut applied to the artery without division of the coats. Neither the phrenic nerve nor the thoracic duct came into view.