DIFFICULTIES OF MEDIAN LITHOTOMY. 1073 bhe Suro-eon can judge of the exact point where to enter the knife (directing t so a °to enter the groove just below the angle), which he cannot do with he cu ved staff; the incision upwards also is limited, and there is, besides, ess danger of wounding the rectum, the urethra being drawn upwai^s away remit and not pushed down against it, as with the ordinary staff. The knife should be straight-backed, having the blade not more than two inches lone • so that the Surgeon can tell to what depth he has entered it. I have found it advantageous in practice to carry a beaked director, shaped like a larce hernia-director, along the groove, after the incision has been made m the ureWa, so as to open up the canal and thus to clear the passage for the finger. And havino- opened the urethra, I think it better to dilate the prostate before withdrawing the staff; by pushing the finger slowly, with a rotatory movement, alono- its side, the bladder is entered with more ease and ceroamty ; whereas, if only the probe be used, it may not be stiff enough, and the Surgeon is apt to push the bladder before him. It has been proposed to employ mechanical means of dilatation, instead of the finger, to open up the prostate and neck of the bladder ; and I had some dilators for this purpose constructed by Coxeter on the principle of the two-bladed dilator of the female urethra. I tried them on the dead subject; but I have not ventured to use them on the living, lest, by the employment of screw-power, the same deep lacerations of the neck'of the bladder should result that were so fatal in the old Marian operation. Indeed, I believe that no safe dilatation can be effected except by the finger, with which no harm can be done, whilst it appears to me that the greatest possible mischief may be done with screw-dilators. The Difficulties and Dangers of Median Lithotomy may best be considered in such a way as to contrast them with those encountered during the lateral operation. 1. Difficulty in entering the Bladder is on the whole more common than in the lateral operation ; but, although in adults the difference in this respect is probably little marked, in boys it is considerable. In them, the prostate not being developed, the bladder tends to be pushed upwards and backwards before the finger ; and, unless the neck of the bladder be well opened, there appears to be great danger of tearing across the membranous part of the urethra, and of pushing backwards the separated bladder. In boys, also, the parts are so small and undeveloped, and the space to work in is so narrow, that an ordinary finger can only with great difficulty be got through the neck of the bladder unless this has been freely incised. But, by doing this, we depart entirely from the guiding principle laid down by the advocates of the median operation, viz., dilatation and not incision. 2. Hamorrhage is rarely troublesome if the incision be made accurately in the middle line, and the bulb be not wounded. At times, however, the primary bleeding is tolerably free, although there is no vessel that can occasion dangerous secondary haBmorrhage. 3. Wound of the Bulb is especially apt to occur in the median operation, and sometimes the bulb so overlaps the membranous part of the urethra that it is impossible to avoid cutting it. It is true that division of the bulb in the middle line seldom gives rise to much haemorrhage, but cases have occurred in which it has proved fatal. 4. Wound of the Rectum is much more likely to occur in the median than in the lateral operation. If the median operation be performed on the VOL. II. 3 z