IOS4 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. entering the recto-vesicul space, if it be at all depressed and the handle raised though this cannot always be avoided if the staff be pushed deeply into the bladder. It may happen that the knife will not run readily alon«r the groove, if its blade form too small an angle with the part of the staff, with which it is in contact. The hand must then be slightly raised and de- pressed again as the knife glides along the curve of the staff" into the l:)ladder so that the point may be kept well in the groove, and all risk of slipping out avoided. 2. The Incision into the Prostate must be at least of sufficient size to admit the tip of the index-finger readily. The extent to which it should be carried has been the subject of much discussion, and of wide diversity of opinion ; John Bell advising that the incision should reach backwards to the bladder, and Scarpa, that it should not exceed five lines in adults and two in children. The danger, however, it must be borne in mind, does not consist in the section of the prostate itself but in cutting beyond it to such an extent as to open up the loose areolar tissue surrounding the bladder, which would expose the patient to the danger of urinary infiltration and diff'use inflam- mation. It was formerly supposed by some Surgeons that a stone of moderate size could be extracted through the prostate without tearing the fibrous capsule of the gland derived from the recto-vesical fascia, which was asserted to remain uninjured, and to prevent infiltration of urine into the surrounding parts. Experiment) on the dead body, and the post-mortem examination of those who died after lithotomy, clearly demonstrated the fallacy of these views. No stone of one inch in diameter can be removed through a healthy prostate without dividing the gland and its capsule for a considerable part of their length, and if the calculus be of considerable size, the rent will be ibund to extend backwards in the floor of the bladder, some way towards the left ureter. The danger of urinary infiltration is not in the external parts of the wound, but in the loose subperitoneal tissue ; and that distinguished anatomist, Ellis, taught many years ago that the separation between the cavity of the pelvis and the external parts in which a lithotomy wound can be safely made is not the sheath of the prostate but the lateral and anterior true hgameuts of the bladder, or, in other words, the recto-vesical fascia. Hence the incision may be safely carried though the whole length of the lower and outer side of the prostate up to the very neck of the bladder, provided it do not pass beyond the attachment of the lateral ligament, and so open up the loose subperitoneal There are, however, other dangers besides extravasation of urine that may arise from too free use of the knife in the deeper parts of the wound, especially hemorrhage from the venous plexus surrounding the prostate and wound of the rectum. For these reasons I prefer to incise the prostate to a moderate extent, enlarging the aperture by stretching with the finger. In the section of the prostate, then, two points have specially to be attendea to • one is that the knife in entering be not pushed forwards at too great an angle with the staff', so as to cut widely ; and the other is, that in its witli- di-awal the blade be kept steadily in contact with the staff Indeed I believe that there is more danger of doing mischief in the withdrawal than in the entry of the knife ; for, if it leave the staff for a moment, all guide is lost, and the edge may sweep downwards through the base of the prostate and the neck