'5^ SPECIAL ANEURISMS. (Fig 474, p 170). This error, which has frequently been committed ancl which has led 0 operations on the arteries at the ^oot of the neck v usually be avoided except in the case of the innominate, by the imposBihili I 0 tracing with the finger the lower boundary of the tumourf and the^xilte ^ of distinctdulnesson percussion, and possibly of impulse or of auscultatory cSr '"^"^ ^PPei- margin of the sternum or 3 When an aneurism springs from tlie posterior wall of the descending aoria a pulsating tumour may gradually develop to one side of the spine or under the scapula, commonly on the left side ; and it may attain a great size fully as large as a man's head, before the patient is destroyed by the rupture of the tumour externally. Treatment.—In the great majority of aneurisms of the thoracic aorta surgical interference is impossible, and our sole reliance must be placed on rest, diet, and the administration of iodide of potassium (sec p. 118). Surgical Treatment of Aneurism of the Aortic Arch.—The idea of treating aneurism of the aortic arch by ligature of one or two of the main arteries at the root of the neck, originated in the results of an operation performed by Christopher Heath in 1865 for the cure of a supposed innominate aneurism by the simultaneous ligature of the right carotid and subclavian arteries. The patient, a woman of intemperate habits, survived the operation for four years, appearing for a time to have been benefited by it. On her death it was found that the aneurism was not one of the innominate but of the ascending aorta, and that it had been practically cured by or after the operation. About the same time Cockle was engaged in a series of observations on the spontaneous consolidation of aneurisms of the aortic arch; he found that in some of these cases the left carotid artery had become occluded, and he inferred from this that ligature of that vessel might be of use in the treatment of certain forms of aneurism of the arch. This suggestion was acted on by Heath, who, in 1872, tied the left carotid artery in a patient of Cockle's affected with aneurism of the ascending and transverse portions of the arch. The patient was benefited by the operation. Heath's second case proved fatal from syncope ; in his third case the aneurism appeared to diminish in size for a while, but then rapidly increased, and the patient died suddenly two months after the operation, Barwell has operated in two cases, in one with advantage. In the other, in which the left subclavian was also tied, the patient died, apparently uninfluenced for good or ill by the operation. In all, the operation appears to have been done 13 times (Ashurst)—in six cases with more or less benefit. In at least four of these cases the artery was ligatured on the supposition that the aneurism was situated at the root of the carotid, when, in reality, it occupied the arch. Barwell states that, in those aneurisms which spring from the aorta beyond the left carotid, ligature of this vessel will do more harm than good, and that the operation should be confined to those in which the tumour appears on the left side, but not far from the median line, and rises into the episternal notch or under the left sterno-mastoid. The Simultaneous Ligature of the Right Carotid and Hight Sub- clavian Arteries for aneurism of the aortic arch has, according to Barwell, been done only in three cases for aneurism diagnosed as aortic before the operation. In some other cases, as the one referred to above, diagnosed