1 MALFORMATIONS OF ANUS AND RECTUM. 949 obstruction appears to depend npon constriction of the anal orifice, in others mon an imperfect septum stretching across it. ^TZmel-lr^ slight cases the daily passage of a well-oiled finger into he bo^r^ve sumcient. In more severe cases it may be necessary to notch the contracted anus with a probe-pointed bistoury and dilate it ^^^h bong-ie^ 9 Complete Closure of Anus. Atresia ani.-The anus may be com- pletely closed by a membranous septum stretching across usually f; raphe along the central line, and a slight depression, through which the dark meconium can be seen, and on which an impulse can be felt. This constitutes perhaps the most common form of malformation that is met with Treatrtmit.-ln this variety an incision must be made through the septum along the middle line, and across on each side, when the meconium will freely escape. The four angular flaps that are left must now be removed, and the aperture kept open by the introduction of a well-oiled plug. _ 3 Anus present, Rectum wanting to a variable degree. Atresia recti.-In the simplest form of this malformation the anus is perfectly formed, but at a distance of about half an inch or an inch from its aperture the rectum will be found occluded by a perfect membranous septum, ihis is a rdre and somewhat puzzling malformation, as the infant will be found to labour under intestinal obstruction, and yet, on examination, the anal orihce will be found perfectly formed. The Surgeon wiU, however, detect the state of things by introducing a probe or the end of his little finger into the anus. The septum can readily be brought into view by inserting the nose speculum (Fig. 667), and throwing light up the bowel by means of a laryngeal mirror. In more severe cases the anal invagination is separated by a considerable distance from the cul-de-sac in which the rectum ends, or the latter may be entirely absent, the sigmoid flexure ending in a dilated pouch opposite the sacral promontory. Treatment—When the rectum is only occluded by a thin septum, the ( following operation will be found successful :—1. The child is put in the lithotomy position. 2. A trochar-cannula is then passed down to and pressed against the septum. 3. The trochar is next passed down the cannula and I through the septum. 4. The trochar is then withdrawn, and the cannula left in. 5. A probe is passed through the cannula, which is then slipped out over it and along the probe, or a director which may be substituted for it, a naiTOw-bladed pair of dressing forceps is pushed up and opened out so as to . dilate the opening in the septum. During this process, the retained faeces ) will have escaped. The aperture must be kept free by the occasional introduc- * tion of a bougie or of the finger. In the more severe forms of this malformation, an incision must be made [ backwards from the anus to the coccyx and an attempt made to reach the ' rectum, or failing this colotomy is necessary, as in the next variety. 4. Absence of Anus ; Rectum more or less deficient. Atresia ani et recti.—Every variety of this malformation is met with between the [ slightest form in which the rectum ends in a blind pouch close to the sur- face of the perinfeum, and the most extreme form in which the rectum is absent and the colon terminates in a large pouch opposite the sacral pro- montory. The exact condition can rarely be recognised with certainty until the Surgeon has made an incision at the site of the anus in the hope of reaching the bowel. It has been pointed out that if the pelvis be abnormally