^9° PELVIC IIERNLE. the hernia, and ho died in seven weeks. At the post-mortem examination, the tndot the vermifonn appendix was found projecting through the ihyxZ foi-amen, with its tip laid open by the suppurative process ^ Operation for strangulated obturator hernia has been performed successfullv by Obre, Bransby Cooper, and Lorinser of Vienna. In Obre's case, the patient was seized with symptoms of strangulation, but no tumour could be detected in any of the ordinary seats of hernia. "On uncovering the upper part of both Jnghs at the same time, the eye detected a slight degree of fulness in .Scarpa s triangle on the right side ; this triangle of the opposite limb wus\vell marked with a hollow, or depression passing down its centre, but this was lost on the affected side, and the whole contour of this part of the limb was visibly fuller than that of the corresponding one. There was no tumour or circum- scribed swelling ; but, on standing over the patient, and using firm pressure with the ends of the fingers over the neighbourhood of the femoral artery, and a little below the saphenous opening, a distinct hardness could be felt (slight m Its extent), giving an impression as if the sheaths of the vessels were bein^ pressed on." Taking the dangerous state of the patient iuto consideration, Obre acted in accordance with the best rules of surgery ; and, thinking that there might be a hernia deeply strangulated in the femoral canal, he made an mcision downwards in this situation, but was disappointed on finding, when the saphenous opening was exposed, that there was no intestine confined there. As, however, a hard structure could be felt deeply at the inner border of the opening, the fascia lata was exposed, and the pectineus muscle divided to the extent of about two inches, when a hernial sac of about the size of a pigeon's egg, and containing intestine, came into view. In this operation the saphena vein gave some trouble, lying in the course of the incision. The sac having been laid open, the stricture was divided upwards, during which part of the procedure the vein was accidentally cut, and required ligature ; no other vessel was tied. The operation was perfectly successful. In Bransby Cooper's case, the patient, a woman aged forty-nine, recovered from the operation, but died of bronchitis before leaving the hospital. In Lorinser's case, the existence of the hernia was detected by vaginal examination. On cutting down on the hernia (on the eleventh day of the symptoms) the intestine was found gangrenous. A fsecal fistula resulted, but subsequently closed ; and the patient survived eleven months, dying at last of tuberculosis. In a con- siderable number of cases the operation was performed unsuccessfully. When the diagnosis is clear the Surgeon may adopt the treatment success- fully carried out by Obre, and expose the hernia by an incision in the thigh. If, however, the indications are very uncertain, it is better to perform median laparotomy, and if an obturator hernia be found, to reduce it from within. This was performed by Hilton in 1848, and again by Godlee in 1884, and by Beckin]8!)l. All three cases ended fatally. In Codlee's case the hernia was reduced without difficulty, but the patient, who was extremely collapsed at the time, died about twenty-four hours after the operation ; in Beck's case the patient was old and died collapsed a few hours after the operation. Besides the obturator, various other pelvic hernire may take place, as into the perinseum, the vagina, or through the sciatic notch. These various forms of rupture are of extreme rarity, and present many difficulties in their diagnosis. Ferinseal Hernia occurs in the male as a protrusion of the recto-vcsical