'3° ANEURISM. divided an inch above the aneurism, when the pulsation ceased and the sac ra])uily diminished. In the event of religature proving unsuccessful the Surgeon must choose between laying open or completely excising the aneurism, and amputation The operation of opening the sac, turning out its contents, and ligaturing the vessel supplying it, is in any circumstances a procedure fraught with danoer to the patient, and full of difficulty to the Surgeon, even when he knows'in what situation to seek the feeding vessel. How much greater then must tlu- uilticulty be, when he is in uncertainty as to the point at which the artery enters the sac, and cannot know whether there be more than one a.-teria] branch leading into it. Still, if the limb be made bloodless by Esmarch'g method, these difficulties may be overcome, and it is well, therefore, to attempt the operation whenever possible, falling back at once on amputation if it cannot be brought to a successful conclusion. A modification of this treaU. inent consists m completely excising the aneurism and ligaturing the artery above and below it. Rose treated in this way a case of femoral aneurism ia which pulsation recurred after ligature of the external iliac, and Horsley recently excised a popliteal aneurism at University College Hospital after failure of the ligature of the femoral to produce consolidation. In these opera- ■ tions the subsequent dangers of secondary hemorrhage and profuse suppura- • tion can be avoided only by scrupulous attention to the antiseptic precautions. In those situations in which amputation is impossible, the Surgeon must attempt the old operation if it be practicable, or leave the patient to inevitable death. Smythe, of New Orleans, as a last resource, laid open a subclavian aneurism, for which he had successfully tied the innominate some years before, but failed to secure the artery, and the patient died. Morris, however, has successfully adopted this proceeding in a case of carotid aneurism after ligature of the common trunk had failed ; and Berkeley Hill in a case of' axillary aneurism after ligature of the subclavian. Since the introduction of absorbable ligatures into surgical practice, a return of pulsation has in a few cases been due to a restoration of the lumen of the artery after the disappearance of the ligature. This is recognized by the presence of pulsation in the vessel at the point at which it was tied. These cases belong to a different class from those iu which the vessel has been per- manently occluded, and require different treatment. The artery may be ligatured again at or near the same spot or at some other point. In a case of this kind that occurred under the care of Christopher Heath in University College Hospital, the femoral was successfully tied iu Hunter's canal after ligature of the artery in Scarpa's triangle had failed. The causes of failure of the ligature have already been described (Vol. I., p. 434). 3. Suppuration and Sloughing of the Sac.—When, after the ligature of its supplying artery, an aneurism is about to suppurate, instead of diminish- ing in size, it increases, with heat, pain, pulsation, and some inflammatory discoloration of the skin covering it. This gradually becomes thinned, and at last gives way ; the contents of the tumour, mixed with pus, are discharged through the aperture in its wall, in the form of a dark purplish brown or plum- coloured and often fetid fluid, intermixed with masses of soft dark coagula, or of the drier laminated fibrin, which in appearance may not inaptly be compared to portions of raisins or dates. This may be accompanied or followed by the escape of florid arterial blood. The hasmorrhage may occur in a sudden