99S SECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. the former they are in tiie vessels, especially in the Malpighian loops, while in the latter they are in the tubules. Microscopic examination of a pysemio kulney further shows an absence of the general diffused inflammation charac- teristic of the ordinary septic kidney. 4. Eifects of Former Attacks from which the Patient has Re- covered.—It is possible that the kidney may undergo exteiisive intertubular change, and yet, if the cause be removed, the inflammatory growth may be completely absorbed, and the organ regain its normal condition. More com- monly, however, the new growth undergoes a development into fibrous tissue, a change corresponding exactly to that which occurs in the cicatrization of a granulating sore, and accompanied by a similar process of contraction. Thus we get an increase in the intertubular connective tissue, and at the same time a contraction and induration of the whole organ, so much so that it is sometimes reduced to less than a quarter of its normal bulk. If the pyramidal p;jrtion have undergone absorption, this is never repaired, but, as its function seems merely that of a duct, its loss is of no great moment. In a kidney of this kind we find the fat adherent to the capsule, and the capsule to the gland-tissue. It strips off'with difficulty, and is thick and opaque. The surface of the kidney is irregular, granular, or perhaps even puckered by cicatrices. Scattered over the surface in most cases are numerous small cysts. These are supposed to be due to the strangulation of the tubules by the fibrous growth. The colour is usually dark and somewhat red, with numerous small dilated veins showing on the surface. On section, the cortex will be found to be greatly thinned, being sometimes not thicker than a shilling. The pyramids, unless absorbed from previous pressure, are but little altered. The whole organ is of a leathery toughness which is quite peculiar. The pelvis may be pigmented from previous inflammation. The microscope shows a great increase of the intertubular tissue which is of a dense fibroid character. The tubules vary in size ; some are strangulated and compressed, others are dilated above the strangulation. Many of the Malpighian corpuscles are obliterated, leaving merely capsules containing the remains of the obliterated vessels. The capsules of all the Malpighian bodies are greatly thickened. The epithelium may be flattened by pressure, or normal. The small arteries usually show some hypertrophy of their muscular coats. Such a kidney as this may undergo a second attack of acute inflammation, and we then find a combination of the form of the contracted kidney with the colour and softness, and possibly the scattered abscesses, of the acute variety. It will be seen from the above descriptioa that this form of kidney differs in no way to the naked eye fi'om the ordinary granular contracted, or gouty kidney. We do not, however, find the general changes associated with that disease. In a case at University College Hos- pital, in which this condition was well marked as the result of stricture of the urethra, there was no hypertrophy of the heart, and no change could be recognized in the walls of the small vessels in other parts. Causes of Interstitial Inflammation.—The following may be stated as the causes which in varying degree take part in the production of interstitial inflammation of the kidney : 1. Tension ; 2. Keflex irritation of the kidney; 3. The presence of septic matter in the pelvis and the invasion of the kidney by septic organisms. Each of these acting singly may induce serious disease, or perhaps even cause death ; but we seldom see such cases. More often two causes at least are in operation.