I22I CIRCUMCISION. nolvpus forceps or sinus forceps, which is held firmly by an assistant. The Seps are no't held vertically, but are inclined slightly forwards be^^^^^^ one sweep of a bistoury the Surgeon cuts off all that portion of the mtegumen whicirpTojects beyond the forceps, which are then —^ (F.g 93B). I will now be found that he has removed only a circle of ^^i", but that the muco^is membrane lining it still tightly embraces the glans ; this h shts up Xn' its dorsal surface a^ far as the corona, by mtroducmg the point ot a pa i 0 scissors at the preputial orifice. In doing this care must be taken not to ^ntXe the lower blade of the scissors into the urethra. The mucous me^ bVane is then turned back completely from the glans, any adhesions being separated and all smegma removed. The excess ot mucous membrane is cut away with scissors, so that only a narrow strip remams around the base of the alans If a tourniquet has been used this is now removed, and any vessels which spurt, usually one on each side of the penis aud one or wo in the fr^num; are twisted or ligatured with the finest catgut. The edges of the Pig. 93(5.—Circumcision in the Adult. skin and mucous membrane are then adjusted with a sufficient number of fine sutures, the first of which should be passed opposite the frajnura and the raphe of the penis. In young children many Surgeons dispense with sutures altogether, but a more satisfactory result is obtained by inserting at least four or s?x. If fine catgut is used it will be absorbed, and thus save the pain of taking them out, or if horsehair sutures are inserted very close to the edges of the skin and mucous membrane, and tightly tied, they usually workontin the course of a week. In young children the simpler the dressing the better. A convenient method consists in wrapping a narrow strip of butter-cloth spread with boric ointment around the line of the wound, and keeping it in place by a narrow strip of gauze fixed at its end with collodion to the abdominal wall at the root of the penis. In the adult an antiseptic gauze or wool dressing may be applied with a narrow bandage. This may be left unchanged for four or five days. Primary union usually occurs, except perhaps in the position of the fraenum, where perfect apposition is not so readily obtained. The dressing is best removed by thoroughly soaking it in warm boric lotion.