DISEASE OF CERVICAL SPINE: TREATMENT. 499 forms of cervical caries. As the chief movements of the head take place in this position pain and rigidity are very early symptoms and the patient presents a characteristic and distressing appearance. The disease is especially apt to destroy one or both of the articulations between the atlas and axis, but the occipito-atlantal joints may be alfected. In these cases gradual dislocation may occur, and sudden displacement with fatal compression of the cord is an accident to be carefully guarded against. Of 32 cases of dislocation collected by Lannelongue the atlanto-axial articulations were affected in 27, the occipito-atlantal in 3, and both in 2 cases. The most common form is the forward displacement of the atlas upon the axis, whilst when the occipito-atlantal joint is diseased one condyle may be dislocated forward. Displacement of the odontoid process backwards may result from destruction of the transverse ligament of the atlas, or from caries of the body of the axis. Slow compression of the cord in the cervical region may result in complete paralysis of all the Hmbs, and death is likely to result from interference with the respiratory movements. Among the early symptoms of cervical caries are often the referred pains caused by irritation of the nerve roots ; these may extend to the shoulder and down the upper limb or be situated in the side of the neck and along the distribution of the great occipital nerve. Great care must be taken not to confound the disease in its early stages with simple muscular torticoUis. In connexion with rheumatism a condition of painful rigidity of the cervical spine is sometimes met with in children which can be distinguished from commencing caries only by its course and the effect of treatment. Hysterical contractions of the lateral and posterior cervical muscles can usually be recognised by their association with other hysterical phenomena and by examination under an ansesthetic. Kheumatoid arthritis of the cervical spine occurs late in life, runs a chronic course and is not attended with the muscular rigidity of cervical caries. "Where suppuration occurs the abscess may come to the surface in the posterior part of the neck, but more often it forms on the front of the spine behind the pharynx. Retro-pharyngeal abscess may form as a consequence of disease either of the bodies of the upper cervical vertebrae, or the articulations of the first two. It commences with induration and swelling of the areolar tissue at the back of the pharynx. Subsequently the swelling becomes softer and fluctuation perceptible. The posterior wall of the pharynx is pushed forwards against the posterior nares, giving a peculiar nasal tone to the voice, and if the abscess be large it may cause difficulty in breathing and swallowing. The formation of retro-pharyngeal abscess in young people should always lead to an examination of the cervical spine, although suppuration in this position may undoubtedly occur irrespectively of bone disease (see Chap. LVII.). The abscess may burst into the pharynx or, guided outwards by the prevertebral layer of the cervical fascia, it passes behind the carotid sheath to the side of the neck, where it usually appears at the posterior border of the sterno- mastoid. In rare cases the abscess burrows downwards, and reaches the superior mediastinum. The Treatment of Disease of the Cervical Spine must be conducted on the same principles as that of angular curvature, by absolute rest and attention to the general health. The actual cautery may sometimes be of use in adults K K 2