DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. small calculi in a sacculus in the prostate, they may be felt by introducing the linger into the rectum, when a peculiar crackling or grating Bensation may be experienced by the rubbing together of the calculi, something like that produced by beads in a bag. The Treatment of prostatic calculus will depend upon the situation, size, and number of the concretions. When they are large, single, or at most two or three in number, readily struck with the sound, and situated on the urethral surface of the organ, the ordinary median operation may advantage- ously be performed, and tiie calculus removed with a scoop or forceps. If die calculi be small and very numerous, not to be felt with the sound, but only through the rectum, it will be wiser not to have recourse to operation, which could not remove the whole of the concretions. In such circumstances, a palliative treatment directed to the subdual of the irritation of the prostate, and the use of the catheter to relieve retention, is the only course to pursue. When prostatic and vesical calculi occur together, the same operation will rid the patient of both forms of the disease. TUBERCLE OF I'HE PROSTATE. Tubercle of the Prostate is not uncommonly met with. It usually forms a part of extensive tuberculous disease of the genito-urinary tract. In fact it is rare to find it sufficiently advanced for a diagnosis to be made with- out one or both epididymises being similarly aflfected, and it is often very diffi- cult to tell where the disease originally commenced. The vesiculse seminales are usually implicated, and the tuberculous infiltration frequently extends to the floor of the bladder. Not uncommonly it is associated with tubercle of the kidney. The post-mortem appearances are those of tubercle elsewhere. Softening yellow masses are found usually near the urethral surface. After a time the mucous membrane gives way, and a ragged cavity with yellow walls is left in the floor of the prostatic urethra. Sometimes the tuberculous abscess may open into the rectum, and thus a fistula may be left between the urethra and the bowel. More rarely it causes an abscess pointing forwards in the peringeum. Tubercle in the lungs is usually present at death. The Symptoms vary much, according to the situation of the ulceration. If it is limited to the prostate, it may cause surprisingly little disturbance. In a case which occurred in University College Hospital, the patient died of tuberculous meningitis, some months after castration for tuberculous testicle. At the post-jnortem examination two cavities were found in the prostate large enough to admit the top of the thumb, but the patient had made no complaint of any urinary trouble. Berkeley Hill pointed out that the disease not uncommonly follows gonorrhoea, and that the only symptoms in the early stages are a chronic gleet and perhaps weight in the perinseum. When the disease extends to the bladder there may be extreme symptoms of irritable bladder. Digital examination by the rectum shows the prostate to be hard, nodular, and irregularly enlarged. Sometimes a softening patch may be detected in it. The vesiculse seminales, if they can be reached, are usually found to be enlarged. There may be a purulent discharge from the urethra, and pus in the urine. The detection of the tubercle bacillus would, determine the nature of the case. The Treatment in the early stages when the diagnosis is doubtful should consist in attention to the general health and