DISEASES OF THE TONG'UE. 690 the dio-asfcric, internally by the free edge of the mylo-hyoid, and above Ijy the hypoglossal nerve, with the ranine vein parallel to and below it. The fl(jor of tlie space is formed by the part of the hyo-glossus arising from the great cornii of the hyoid bone. The tendon of the digastric is drawn downwardg with a blunt hook. The fibres of the hyo-glossus must now be picked up care- fully in this space, and divided horizontally, when the lingual arteiy will come at once into view (Fig. 744). Care must be taken while exposing the artery not to cut too deeply, as it is separated from the mucous membrane of the pharynx merely by a few fibres of the middle constrictor. Sometimes the stylo-hyoid ligament comes into view ; it may be recognised at once by its passing upwards and backwards, while the artery is directed upwards and forwards. Should it be seen it may be used as a guide to the artery which passes superficial to it. In rare cases the artery hes with the hypoglossal nerve superficial to the hyo-glossus, in which situation it must be sought if not found in its proper place. Operations on the Tongue.—The operations practised for cancer of the tongue consist in removal of a portion of the organ only, or its complete extirpation accordiug to the situation and extent of the disease. Unless the growth can be thoroughly extirpated, it is better not to attempt any opiTation, for in no organ is there a greater tendency to recurrence of cancer than in the tongue. When the disease extends to the floor of the mouth, implicates the arches of the palate, or has largely infiltrated the sub- maxillary lymphatic glands, the propriety of operating becomes very doubtful. Even under these circumstances, however, exten- sive operations have been performed with at least temporary benetit. In determining the question of operating, much will de- pend upon the condition of the patient. If he be otherwise in good health, though suffering greatly from the pain of the cancer, and if the secondary aflFection be limited to the glands below the jaw, which can be removed with- out difficulty, an operation may be undertaken. If he be greatly exhausted by pain and want of food, and more especially if the glands under the sterao- mastoid are enlarged, an operation w^ould at the best give very temporary relief, and would be very likely to be directly fatal. Before the operation the mouth should be cleaned by the removal of tartar from the teeth, and the free use of a tooth-brush and mouth-washes. The tongue must be thoroughly exposed and kept well under control during the performance. The first object is attained by means of an efficient gag. Fergusson's (Fig. 745) or Langenbeck's (Fig. 74(5) gag will be found very efficient. Fergusson's is very difficult to keep in position when the back teeth are wanting, as it tends to slip forwards. Langenbeck's gag may then be of service, but it also is uncertain if the front teeth are wanting. Efficient gagging is one of the most essential parts of all operations on the tongue, ancf the gag should always be entrusted to an assistant, whose sole duty shall be to"see that it does not slip. The slipping of the gag and the sudden closure of the mouth at a critical point in the operation may Fig. 745.—Fergn.sson's Gag, inoilitied by Mason.