1236 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. ment will usually be found to give the patient relief; but if the case be ser^n very eai-ly, before much swelling has taken place, the application of cold hv means of Leiter's tubes (Vol. L, p. 214) or Otis's coil may sometimes cut til inflammation short and give immediate relief. ].ocal blood-letting is often of great service when there is much pain. It is best carried out bv puncturing the veins of the scrotum—a far better method than applying leeches the bites of which are apt to become irritated. This little operation may be verv effectually done by directing the patient to stand up, and to foment the scrotum for a few minutes with a hot sponge, so as to distend the veins, these may then be punctured at various points with a fine lancet, and th' parts well fomented, so as to encourage the flow of blood. In this way six or eight ounces may be taken in the course of a few minutes ; when enough has escaped, the further flow may be arrested by laying the patient down an' elevating the part. If there be much effusion into the tunica vaginalis, constituting acute hydrocele, relief may be afforded by tapping. Puncture of the testis itself, which has been recommended, is a needless and dangerous proceeding, f have known of a case in which it was followed by abscess in the gland, ending in its complete destruction. * The Constitutional Treatment during the acute stage consists in the adminis-. tration of salines and antimony, with hyoscyamus in full doses, so as to give' an aperient, a diaphoretic, and a sedative together ; when this begins to act, great relief is usually afforded. As the inflammation subsides, the treatment must be changed. When there is merely swelling and hardness left, with but little pain or tenderness, the testis may advantageously be strapped, so as to give good support and to promote absorption of plastic matter. Fricke of Hamburg has strongly recommended strapping in the acute stage ; but I cannot say that I have ever seen any advantage derived from it at this period of the disease, though I have many times seen it tried ; it has usually appeared to me to increase, sometimes very considerably, the pain in the part, and the general uneasiness. In Subacute Orchitis much benefit is usually derived from a short course of Dover's powder and calomel, with early strapping of the testis. When the organ has become enlarged and indurated, as the result of chronic inflamma- tion, it may advantageously be strapped either with simple plaster, or with one composed of equal parts of the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro and soap-plaster ; mercury in small doses, more especially the perchloride, being. continued for some length of time, until the inflammatory products are absorbed and the hardness disappears. In Strapping a Testicle, the scrotum should be shaved, and then drawn tightly upwards on the affected side. The Surgeon should next pass a long strip of plaster, an inch broad, above the enlarged testicle and round the corresponding side of the scrotum, so as to isolate it. Another strip is now passed from behind, in a longitudinal direction, over the lower end of the testis, and upwards upon the anterior part of the scrotum ; and then, by a succession of horizontal and vertical strips, neatly overlapping and drawn tightly, the organ is completely enveloped and compressed. To be of any service, the strapping must be tightly and evenly applied; but at the same time care must be taken not to strangulate the scrotum by di-awing down the upper strips of plaster too forcibly. In a case of syphilitic disease of the