1252 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. Symptoms.—The testicle feels hard, smooth, and solid, though perhal slightly elastic at points; it is ovoid iu shape, and usually about as large « duck's egg. It 18 heavy and but slightly painful, and, except in very old oases the testicular sensation is present. The cord is usually somewhat thickeiied' and, as well as the groin, is the seat of pain of a dragging character. The tunic^ vaginalis occasionally contains serous fluid lying in front of and obscuring the The scrotum is always healtliy, and almost invariably one testicle onh Fig. 949.—Hernia Testis. testis, is affected. Occasionally simple chronic inflammation may terminate in Suppuratioa. In these circumstances, a part of the indurated testicle softens and becom prominent, the skin becomes red, shining and thinned, and adhesions for between it and the gland beneath. At last the abscess bursts, and through the aperture a fungus (hernia testis, or benign fungus of the testicle) speedily protrudes, which grows sometimes slowl ' ^ sometimes rapidly, perhaps attaining a very co^ siderable size (Fig. 949). As the fungus increase the organ appears to atrophy, but in reality pressed out of the scrotum and merges into t" fungus. This fungus is not a new growth, but composed of the tubules of the testis and inflam matory products. It is in the form of a pal reddish-yellow granular mass. If small and firm it may become very chronic; but if large, rapidly growing, and loose-textured, it speedily destroy's the secreting structure of the testis, leavin nothing but a thickened epididymis and a contracted and shrunken tunica albuginea. la other cases no fungus appears, but a fistuloi track may be left, leading to an imperfect! drained cavity surrounded by indurated tissue, and this may remai unhealed for months or even years. Occasionally, instead of bursting the abscess may become surrounded by dense fibroid tissue and remai- stationary, and this dense wall has been known to calcify. Although th occasional occurrence of abscess of the testicle as the result of simple chroni orchitis seems probable, it may be regarded as practically certain that man cases have been in reality tuberculous. Structure.—On making a section of a testicle aflFected with simple chronio inflammation, the tunica vaginalis will be found to be more or less adherent, and perhaps separated from the tunica albuginea in parts by small collections of fluid. The tunica albuginea is thickened, often presenting on its external surface a series of firm, glistening layers. The septa of the testis are seen to be thickened, rendering the whole organ hard and firm, and giving it a bluish- grey appearance. The microscope shows that the chronic inflammation chiefly afifects the intertubular tissue, but in many cases this is accompanied by catar- rhal overgrowth of the epithelium. Prognosis.—Simple chronic orchitis usually terminates in recovery, but the organ may be left somewhat enlarged and indurated, or in other cases it may undergo atrophy as the inflammatory products become absorbed. •! Treatment.—Strapping and the administration of an alterative course of perchloride of mercury may be tried. If the organ do not diminish in size, or