929 PERITYriiLITIC ABSCESS. clinical features to determine the exact seat of the inflammation. If suppura- tion occur around the caecum or its appendix, a perityjMUic abscess''' results, which is in all cases primarily intraperitoneal; for, as Treves has shown, both the cfficum and the appendix are completely covered by peritoneum. Pathology.—In the milder forms of typhlitis, which almost invariably recover under simple medical treatment, the condition which is thought to exist most commonly is an ulceration of the mucous membrane of the caecum with secondary inflammation of the peritoneum covering it. The ulceration is probably induced by the irritation of hard faacal matter, which is especially liable to accumulate in this part of the intestine. Treves has, however, shown that equally mild attacks of typhlitis may be due to mischief in the appendix, and there is, in the opinion of some Surgeons, reason for thinking that in all cases the appendix is at fault. The pathological grounds for the belief that many of the milder cases of typhlitis occur independently of mischief in the appendix are necessarily scanty, for the disease almost always ends in recovery. In the more severe forms, however, which frequently result in abscess, there is no doubt .that the starting-point is almost invariably the appendix, and thus it is that in cases which end fatally the same fact is almost constantly observed. Among the pathological conditions to which the vermiform appendix is liable, the most important are catarrhal inflammation, ulceration, and gangTene. Catarrhal inflammation of its mucous membrane is the most simple inflamma- tory affection to which the appendix is liable, and is probably predisposed to by the abundant lymphoid tissue which Bland Sutton has shown to exist in the mucous membrane. It may be productive of serious symptoms if the escape of the mucus into the cfecum is prevented by blocking of the base of the appendix, as by kinking, or by the scarring following ulceration. This results in locahzed peritonitis, and the condition in question has been shewn by Treves to be at least one cause of "relapsing typhlitis" (see p. 932). Ulceration of the appendix, ending not uncommonly in perforation, seems to be usually the result of the irritation of hard faecal concretions, and much less frequently of the presence of a foreign body, such as an orange-pip or a cherry-stone. Often a small hard body, looking at first sight like a fruit stone, proves to be nothing more than a laminated mass of fascal matter. The perforation which follows may occur acutely before peritoneal adhesions have- formed around, in which case general peritonitis probably results. Often, however, the process is more gradual, and a locahzed intraperitoneal abscess is the result. Tuberculous ulceration and typhoid ulceration are rare causes of perforation of the appendix ; and a case due to actinomycosis has already been mentioned in Yol. I., p. 1106. Gangrene of the appendix is believed to occur in some instances from strangulation due to twists. Observations show that the pus obtained from cases of localized or diffuse peritonitis secondary to perforation of the vermiform appendix is rich in the bacterium coli commune (p. 817). Perityphlitic Abscess being almost invariably secondary to disease of the appendix, its position varies with that of the process itself. Treves finds that m the adult the appendix usually lies behind the end of the ileum and its mesenteiy, and points in the direction of the spleen ; not unfrequently it lies vertically behind the caecum, whilst it may hang down into the pelvis, and may be found in contact with the sigmoid flexure, rectum, uterus, or bladder. Usually the abscess occupies the peritoneal cavity in the right iliac region above Vr»T. IT ° o