825 caus.es of hernia. with its peritoneal covering, has passed into a distinct sac. In some instances the cystocele is accompanied by an enterocele. This hernia is always n-redu- cible, is attended with a good deal of difficulty in urinating, with varying tension, according to the quantity of fluid contained ; by squeezing it, urine may be forced out through the urethra, and fluctuation has been felt in it. Urinary calculi have been formed in the tumour, and have been removed by incision through the scrotum, or have ulcerated out. Causes.—The causes of hernia are usually sufficiently well marked. In some instances the disease is mujenital, arising from preternatural patency of the abdominal apertures ; in other cases, it occurs at a later period of life, in con- sequence of some forcible effort, as lifting a heavy weight, jumping, coughing, straining at stool, or passing urine through a tight stricture. Such causes as these act especially in tall and delicate people, particularly in those who have a natural disposition to weakness or bulging of the groins. The displacement of the abdominal viscera by a gravid uterus will also occasionally give rise to the disease. Hernia frequently results from a combination of causes : thus, if an aged person of feeble build, or whose abdominal apertures are patent in consequence of rather sudden emaciation, make a violent effi)rt, a hernial pro- trusion is very apt to occur. The view that elongation of the mesentery is an important cause of hernia has been supported by many writers, but has been more or less generally aban- doned. It must, however, be mentioned that a modification of this theory has lately been suggested by Lockwood, who finds that in some cases the attachment of the mesentery is lower than natural, although no elongation of the mesentery itself exists. Lockwood is of opinion that this " prolapse of the mesentery" gives rise to a flattening of the abdomen above the umbilicus and a bulging below it. Amongst the most frequent Predisposing Causes of hernia, are sex, age, and occupation. Sex.—Men are more liable to this disease than women, in the proportion of about 4 or 5 to 1. Thus, according to Malgaigne, in France, one man in thirteen and one woman in fifty-two are the subjects of hernia. But, though men are more generally liable to hernia than women, they are less so to certain forms of the disease, especially to the femoral and umbilical. It is to the inguinal that they are particularly subject. According to Lawrence, out of 83,584 patients who applied to the City of London Truss Society, 67,798 were males and 15,786 females. Of 43,214 applicants at the same institution during the eight years 1860-1867, 36,161 were males and 7,053 females. Of these, 34,788 males, and 3,085 females had inguinal hernia ; 1,373 males, and 3,968 females had femoral hernia. Age exercises a very material influence upon the frequency of hernia. Mal- gaigne, who carefully investigated this subject, found that in infancy the disease is sufficiently common, owing to the prevalence of congenital inguinal and umbilical hernias at this period of hfe ; and that, in the first year after birth, hernia occurs in the proportion of 1 in every 21 children. It then goes on decreasing in frequency, there being 1 in 29 at the second year ; 1 in 37 at the third year ; until, at the thirteenth year, it has fallen to 1 in 77. Shortly after this, its frequency begins to rise again, and then goes on pro- gressively increasing until the close of life : thus, at the 21st year, there is 1 case in 32 ; at the 28th year, 1 in 21 ; at the 35th, 1 in 17 ; at the 40th, 1