PERFORATION OF VERMIFORM APPENDIX. 931 without evident cause, but it has been known to follow a violent effort or a blow on the abdomen. The pain is soon followed by nausea and vomiting, which is frequently repeated. There is constipation from the first, although it often happens that the patient has given himself a purgative after the . invasion, and the bowels have responded to it. There is a very variable (elevation of temperature, and sometimes an actual rigor at the onset. Irritability of the bladder or painful micturition has frequently been observed. The tongue rapidly becomes coated, and the patient's face assumes the characteristic " abdominal expression." On examination it will usually be found that there is slight general fulness of the abdomen, and partial or complete absence of abdominal respiratory movements. Even at an early stage there may sometimes be noticed some increased fulness above Poupart's ligament on the right side, and here also the absence of respiratory movements may be most marked. Tenderness may be present only in the right iliac region, or if general, it is most marked there, and is accompanied by muscular rigidity which prevents deep palpation. McBurney states that the maximum tenderness is usually at a point midway between the umbilicus and the anterior superior iliac spine. Even when the abdo- minal wall has been completely relaxed by the administration of an anaesthetic no swelling can at first be felt, and when it develops it is fixed, and, as Treves has pointed out, forms an elongated hard mass " about the size of an adult thumb," and can often be detected ^er rectum. The course of the symptoms after the first twenty-four hours differs according to circumstances. Sometimes the abdominal distension steadily increases without any increase in the symptoms referred to the CEecum; the vomiting persists, and the patient dies within a week of diffuse peritonitis. In other cases the swelling in the csecal region increases, and assumes the definite features of an abscess, with localized and radiating pain, flexion of the I right hip, and later, oedema of the abdominal wall. The chief varieties of the J perityphHtic abscess have already been mentioned. In rare instances unmis- takable symptoms of suppuration subside spontaneously, probably by the abscess discharging itself into the ctecum or some other viscus. In a case I lately in University College Hospital the patient rapidly recovered after a free I escape of pus from the vagina. In still another set of cases the acute symptoms subside, and an abscess slowly forms in the region of the caecum, with very little pain or constitutional disturbance. The Diagnosis of rupture of the vermiform appendix is in some cases ! easily made, the sudden invasion, the seat of the pain and tenderness, the I vomiting, and the age of the patient pointing cleariy to the nature of the case. I On the other hand, great difficulty may be met with in some instances, and ' often the cause of the patient's symptoms has remained unrecognized until an : exploratory abdominal section has been made. The most severe cases may simulate other forms of perforation, as of a gastric or duodenal ulcer, but as a rule the symptoms are less intense, and there is no history of preexisting evidences of such affections. In cases of ordinary severity there is often a close resemblance of the early symptoms to those of mechanical obstruction of ; the small intestine, especially internal strangulation. The course of the * symptoms will usually serve to distinguish the two conditions : in rupture of the appendix the signs of peritonitis occur eariy and precede those of obstruc- tion, whereas the reverse is the case in mechanical obstructions. It is obvious, I 302'