TREATMENT OF TORTICOLLIS. 531 sterao-mastoid will throw the head into the position above described ; if both muscles are affected the head is thrown forwards. In spasm of the posterior muscles varying degrees of extension and rotation are met with. Thus one trapezius will draw the head backwards with a slight inclination of the face to the opposite side ; both trapezii acting together will simply extend the head. The splenius capitis inclines the head laterally and rotates the face to the same side, and acting with the sterno-mastoid of the opposite side will serve to increase the rotation produced by the latter muscle. It has akeady been mentioned that in long-standing cases of spasmodic wry-neck the deformity may be rendered permanent by retraction of the affected muscles. Purely spasmodic torticollis can be distinguished from that due to permanent shortening of the muscles by the fact that it is often paroxysmal, that the deformity can be overcome by traction, and that it disappears during sleep and anaesthesia. The greatest care must be taken not to confound muscular torticollis with 3 disease of the cervical spine. It must be remembered that spasmodic muscular ft contractions in the neck may result from irritation of the nerve roots at the intervertebral foramina. In the case of torticolhs due to retraction of one sterno-mastoid, the freedom of the movements other than those limited by the shortened muscle will serve to distinguish it from the deformity following spinal disease, whilst from early caries it differs in the absence of pain and complete freedom from swelling or thickening about the vertebrae. The Treatment of the acute forms of torticollis such as that which I follows exposure to cold consists in rest of the part and the application of f warmth, followed by rabbing with stimulating liniments. If the deformity I be secondary to inflamed cervical glands these must receive appropriate treatment. In a well-marked case of torticollis, arising from permanent shortening of one of the sterno-mastoids, which is the common form of the affection, the treatment may best be conducted by dividing the inferior attachment of the muscle, and f, thus allowing the head to regain its proper position. The subcutaneous division of the muscle is a somewhat delicate operation, on account of the important 1 structui-es that lie Immediately behind it. By dividing it, however, from [; behind forwards, close to the sternum and along the clavicle, there can, if 7 ordinary care be employed, be httle risk of doing any damage, as these bones £ carry the lower attachment of the muscle forwards, and separate it from sub- j jacent parts. The sternal attachment of the muscle, which is usually very 1 tense and prominent, may be divided by making a puncture on the inner side of the tendon, pushing a narrow director behind the muscle, drawing the i latter forwards, and then passing an ordinary tenotome behind the tendon, ri with its flat side towards it, just in front of the upper margin of the sternum, '1 and cutting forwards, whilst the muscle is put well upon the stretch. In ^ dividing the clavicular origin, a puncture should be made with a scalpel upon *i and down to the clavicle in the cellular space which lies between the two 1 attachments of the muscle, and then by pushing a long, blunt-pointed, narrow- 8 bladed tenotome beneath the insertion of the muscle, this is divided in a T direction forwards. In this situation also the director may be used, unless » the parts are very tense. Care must be taken of the external jugular vein at ) the outer edge of the muscle. Should this vessel run inconveniently close to > the edge, the safer plan is to begin the operation from the outer side, making M M 2