OPERATIONS FOR IMPERMEABLE STRICTURE. 1199 been made for five years to make an instrument enter ^.^^^^^laf er b^^^^^ success, the stricture not only being excessively tight, ^^^^ t^he u th a acu y sensitive ; under chloroform I succeeded in introducmg No. ^ silvei cathetei into the bladder, and speedily cured the patient. ,-„„frnTiients The influence of Anmthetics in facilitating the passage of "^^trume^ts through apparently impermeable strictures is very marked. _ ^^r.^i'.7h. ou<.h introduction of ether as an anaesthetic agent, Liston was going to cut thio igh a stricture that had resisted all attempts made by his most dexterous hand a introducing an instrument into the bladder ; but no sooner was the pa lent put on the table and rendered insensible, than the No. 8 silver catheter, which had been passed down as far as the stricture, and the point of which was to serve as a guide to the knife, slipped into the bladder, and thus rendered operation unnecessary. , , i Yet no Surgeon can doubt that cases do occasionally, though rarely, occur, in which, in consequence of extravasation of urine and old inflammatory mischief, the urethra has become so tortuous and narrow, iind the perinteum so thickened and indurated, that an instrument cannot be passed through, even though the urine pass out readily. It must be borne in mind that a stricture may be permeable to urine, but impermeable to a catheter, even m the most dexterous hands. It does not follow necessarily that, because a fluid will trickle out of a narrow and tortuous channel, a catheter or solid sound can be passed into it from without. In a case of extravasation of urine following stricture consequent on injury of the perinEeum, in which no catheter had been intro- duced for eight years, it was found after death that, although the urethra had been converted into a mass of cicatricial tissue at the part injured, it was yet permeated by a narrow tortuous passage, through which the urine had escaped. Hence cases will occasionally occur, in which the perinteal section is not practicable. In the event, therefore, of a stricture being so tight and tortuous that no instrument will pass through it, or Avhere, a portion of the urethra having sloughed away, its canal is obliterated, neither the cure by dilatation nor urethrotomy can be performed, and it may then be necessary to have recourse to incision of the stricture without a guide. Operations for Impermeable Stricture.—In operating for the relief of impermeable stricture various means have been adopted, the chief of which are, 1, opening the urethra behind the stricture ; 2, opening the urethra behind the stricture and cutting forwards through the constriction ; 3, opening the urethra in front and dividing the stricture from before backwards. 1. Opening the Urethra behind the Stricture, or, as it is often called in this country, " Cock's operation," is thus performed : The patient having been prepared as for lithotomy, the operator introduces his left forefinger into •the rectum. He then takes a broad sharp-pointed knife, which Cock advised should be double-edged, and passes it towards the apex of the prostate, guiding its course by the finger in the rectum. The knife must be passed at one thrust- to the apex of the prostate, and great care must be taken that it keeps accu- rately to the middle line. The external wound is then enlarged somewhat by moving the knife up and down, till the lower angle reaches to about half an inch from the anus. The knife is then withdrawn and a large probe-pointed director with a handle is passed through the prostatic urethra from the wound,