7°4 DliSEASES OF TONSILS. high fever, chills, and occasioualiy even ddirium. The thermometer fre queutly rises to lU.r. or oven hi-her. In some cases, a trace of albumen mav be ound ni the urine. Tonsillitis is often caused by exposure to impure air such as results from the escape of sewer-gas iato a house, and it is not uncommon amongst the residents in hospitals. It occasionally precedes ao attack of acute rheumatism, but the connexion between the two diseases is not clear. It may be mistaken for diphtheria, scarlet fever, or erysipelas of the fauces. From diphtheria it is distinguished by the absence of exudation The mucous secretion from the tonsil may somewhat resemble diphtheritic exudation, but it is distinguished by its want of adherence, as it is easily removed with a camel's-hair pencil From scarlet fever, tonsillitis is distin- guished by the absence of the red tongue, and by the redness of the throat being purple in tint, and Hmited to the tonsils and their immediate nei<rh. bourhood, and later on by the absence of rash. From erysipelas of the fauces it is more difficult to distinguish, but it will usually be found that the redness is darker in tint and less diffused than in erysipelas, and there is less oedematoiis swelling, and no tendency to the supervention of dyspnoea from oedema glottidis. There is also less glandular enlargement at the angle of the jaw. The Treatment should always be commenced by a good purge ; a calomel and colocynth pill will be found most efficacious if it can be taken. Guaiacum in lozenges, or otherwise, is said sometimes to cut the disease short if adminis- tered at the very beginniug. Salicylate of sodium in lb or 20 grain doses every three or four hours is often most useful. Hot fomentations must be continuously applied, and the inhalation of the steam from a pint of boiling water, to which has been added a teaspoonful of creasote, carbolic acid, or compound tincture of benzoin, will often give much comfort by lessening the foe!:or of the breath. The patient must be well supported by good beef tea and other liquid food. The difficulty in swallowing may be overcome by painting or spraying the throat with cocaine. Much relief may often be given by scarifying the tonsils with a probe-pointed bistoury ; and, if abscess form, it should be opened early with a sharp-pointed bistoury sheathed to within half an inch of its point by wrapping strapping round it. Chronic Enlargement of the Tonsils occurs in two distinct forms. In one, the enlargement occurs in otherwise healthy children in consequence of repeated attacks of inflammation, and more especially of diphtheria, scr.rlet fever, and measles. In the second form, it is due to a true hypertrophij of the normal structures of the tonsil. The lymphatic follicles are enlarged and increased in number, and the connective tissue between them is more abundant and dense than natural. The crypts are deepened and are filled with an abundant mucous secretion, sometimes of cheesy consistence, and standing out from the mouth of the crypt in the form of white spots. In rare cases, calcareous concretions may be found in the dilated crypts. This form of enlargement may be complicated by the effects of repeated attacks of inflammation. When the tonsils are chronically enlarged, the condition is obvious on opening the mouth and depressing the tongue so as to expose the fauces fairly, and cannot be mistaken for any other morbid state. The condition is frequently associated with the presence of adenoid vegetations in the naso- pharynx (sec p. 70'.)). In chronic injtammaiory enlar(jement the tonsils are red, congested, and very