X268 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. drops from the urethra. In the sh'ghter cases, and in the earlier stages of the malady, these emissions take place but occasionally—three or four times a week, chiefly in the morning, in the mid-state between waking and sleeping, and are preceded by an erection. In the more advanced stages, the emissions occur once or oftener in the twenty-fonr hours without an erection ; the semen at last, when discharged, flowing back into the neck of the bladder, escaping with each discharge of the urine, or being squeezed out after defeca- tion. The patient's physical and mental state becomes seriously implicated ir) these more advanced cases of true spermatorrha3a. His countenance is pallid, ana3mic, and sallow ; his features are drawn, their expression is listless ; his eyes lifeless ; his spirits depressed, often to the lowest depths of despondency and despair. Connexion is impracticable, as the discharge of semen takes place either before erection occurs, or without its occurrence. Diagnosis.—The first point in making a diagnosis is to ascertain that there is some real disease, and that the patient is not merely the subject of hypochondriasis or sexual melancholia. Various conditions are mistaken for spermatorrhoea by a nervous patient. The white discharge of phosphates oc- curring at the end of micturition (p. 1029), when the'urine is alkaline in some forms of dyspepsia, is often believed by the patient to be seminal fluid ; and as this condition is frequently accompanied by the languor of dyspepsia, and is common in those who sit up too late at night and overwork themselves, this harmless condition may give rise to the deepest mental depression. Prostatorrhoea (p. 1140) is very apt to be confounded with spermatorrhoea ; but the diagnosis may always be eflFected by a microscopical examination of the discharge. An occasional involuntary emission is not spermatorrhoea. It is common to young men of excitable temperament, and is often the occasion of much groundless alarm. It occurs at that period of life when the generative power is at its highest development. It is simply the result of a hypersecretion of the testes and overflow of the semen. For it, early and congenial marriage is the only remedy. Unless this be adopted, Nature will assert herself. "Naturam expellas furca, tamen usque recurret." The escape of a small quantity of seminal fluid from the vesiculs seminales while straining at stool is of common occurrence in young men leading a continent life ; it need cause no anxiety, and requires no treatment beyond a purge and a cold hip-bath. Frequent nocturnal emissions in many cases are merely a symptom of dyspepsia, the languid feelings of which the patient complains being very often due to this much more than to the loss of semen. The loss of semen by an involuntary emission causes no more depression than a corresponding loss during coition, and if occurring not more than twice a week has no evil effect. It is the constipation and dyspepsia accompanying it that are the real source of the symptoms. Treatment.—The curative treatment of true spermatorrhoea should consist in giving tone to, and in lessening the irritability of, the genito-urinary organs. With this view, the preparations of iron, phosphorus, nux vomica, and cantharides will be found the most effective. The syrup of the phosphate of iron and strychnine, or the tincture of the perchloride of iron, in combina- tion with those of nux vomica and cantharides, will be found of the greatest service. But under any form of treatment the cure will be slow, and long-