DISEASES OF. THE SPINE. In a few recorded cases the spoutaneous cure of a spina Infida has bcM, tollowed after a varying interval by paralytic and trophic phenomena. \ remarkable case of this kind has been recorded by Jones of Manchester ; tl, symptoms, which consisted of incomplete paralysis and anesthesia of the lo\s i limbs, and perforating ulcers of the feet, developed at the age of seventeen years. Opei-ation was undertaken at the age of twenty-two, and a fibrous band compressing the cauda equina was divided; great improvement followed. TUBEKCULOUS DISEASE OF THE SPINE.-CAKIES OF THE SPINE. - ANGULAB OUBVATUEE.—POTT'S DISEASE. This disease, which was first accurately described in 1779 by Percival Pott, the celebrated surgeon to St. Bartholomew's Hospital, consists, in its full development, of destruction of the bodies of some of the vertebras, with disintegration of the corresponding intervertebral fibro-cartilages. It most commonly occurs in young children, sometimes even during the first year of life. It is, however, met with at later periods, not uncommonly com- mencing at puberty, and sometimes even late in life. I have seen it set in after fifty. Causes.—It is now universally recognized that the commonest, if not the only, cause of the destructive inflammation of the vertebrae which is the essential element of this disease, is a deposit of tubercle in the bones of the affected part. In many cases undoubtedly the first symptoms of the disease follow some injury to the spine, such as a fall, and it is an important fact that a very common starting-point is the soft growing tissue between the bone and the epiphysial layer of cartilage, especially at the anterior part which would be most powerfully compressed during forcible flexion of the spine. It is indeed conceivable that the traumatic inflammation of the bone, which under favourable circumstances would rapidly subside, may, as the result of want of rest and constant pressure on the part, especially if occurring in an unhealthy subject, give rise to a chronic rarefying osteitis, ending in more or less extensive destruction of the bodies of the vertebrse. In those cases, therefore, which distinctly follow an injury, and which recover without sup- puration, it is not possible to prove their tuberculous nature. It is, how- ever, far more probable that the persistence of the inflammation, resulting in the first place from the injury, is due to a deposit of tubercle in the damaged area, and the existence of a simple non-tuberculous caries of the vertebrae must be considered doubtful. The evidence in proof of the tuberculous nature of at least the majority of cases is as follows :—First, the disease frequently commences in many inde- pendent centres, often in the bodies of different vertebrae, and in situations, such as the front of a body or in its central parts, which are little exposed to injury. Secondly, in patients dying of advanced caries affecting one part of the spine, separate centres of disease in an earlier stage are frequently Ibund in other vertebra. The granulation tissue removed from these has been shown to contain non-vascular, caseating nodules presenting the characteristic anatomical structure of tuberculous tissue (Vol. I., p. 1086), and further the presence of the tubercle bacillus has been demonstrated in many cases. Thirdly, the early caseation of the inflammatory products and the chronic