4l8 DISEASE OF THE JfJI'-.IOINT. sides. If greater accuracy is required, tlie plau described in the chapter on Fractures (Vol. I., p. Oil) may be adopted. Theoretically real lengthening may occur in consequence of effusion into the joint, but practically the amount so caused is too small to be recognized by measurement. True shortening may arise from destruction of the head of the bone, dislocation, and want of growth. In old cases it is well to measure the tibia separately, and to compare it with the sound limb. In this way the proportion of shortening due to general want of growth of the limb may be estimated roughly. 8. Limitation of movement is a constant symptom in all forms of hip disease. The degree of limitation of flexion is ascertained by grasping the side of the pelvis with one hand, while the thigh is slowly raised from the bed with the other. In this way it is easily ascertained how much of the apparent flexion is due to movement of the pelvis and lumbar spine, and how much to true movement in the joint. The degree of possible extension is recognized by the method of ascertaining the angle of flexion recommended by H. 0. Thomas. To ascertain the limitation of abduction or adduction, a tape may be passed across the pelvis from one anterior spine to the other, and another tape may be held at right angles to this to indicate the normal position of the limb when straight ; the limb may then be gently moved from side to side, and the degree of mobility noted. In estimating the possible amount of rotation, the hip and knee must be flexed, and the condyles of the femur grasped and rotated with one hand, while the pelvis is steadied with the other. It may be taken as a safe rule, that if flexion, rotation outwards, and abduction, can be carried to such a degree as to place the Hmb in the attitude assumed by a tailor when sitting cross-legged, there is no disease of the hip-joint. This position puts the round ligament firmly on the stretch, and if the head of the femur is diseased, would cause considerable pain. 4. Suppuration is not a necessary consequence of tuberculous disease of the hip-joint. In some cases, as we have already seen, considerable destruction may result from a process of dry caries without pus formation. But apart from this there is a considerable proportion of cases in which as the result of expectant treatment a cure is brought about'in spite of the presence of considerable swelling in the neighbourhood of the joint, and possibly even a sense of deep fluctuation. In such cases it is probable that chronic suppura- tion has in reality occurred, the inflammatory products undergoing absorption as the result of treatment. Frequently, however, a definite abscess forms, and gradually advances to the surface. The pus usually escapes from the capsule by perforating the posterior part which is thinnest. It then in most cases comes gradually forwards beneath the gluteus minimus and medius. Having reached the anterior border of the glutei, it passes beneath the tensor vagina femoris, and the upper part of the sartorius, forming a sweUing in the upper part of the thigh below the anterior superior iliac spine. From this pomt it often burrows downwards, and opens behind the thick band of fascia into wluch the tensor vaginse femoris is inserted, in the lower part of the upper third of the thio-h Occasionally the abscess escapes from the joint in its anterior part, more often towards the outer aspect. It is also a fact of practical importance that when a tuberculous focus exists in the neck of the femur it is possible for an abscess of considerable size to form in the anterior region of the hip without the joint itself being actually involved.