31 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF NEURALGIA. blunt hook forced through the mucous membrane, the tongue being drawn to the opposite side while the nerve is being pulled upon. Section can be made by putting the nerve on the stretch, and passing a curved bistoury to the inner side of it opposite the last molar tooth, and then cutting towards the jaw. To remove a piece, a longitudinal incision should be made through the mucous membrane in the line of the nerve, which may then be drawn out with a blunt hook. The mental branch of the inferior dental is easily reached, as it emerges fi'om the dental canal. The foramen is situated directly below the interval between the bicuspid teeth. The nerve can be stretched subcutaneously by making a puncture in the skin opposite the first bicuspid at such a level as not to jDenetrate the mouth. A blunt hook is inserted through this, and forcibly scraped along the bone across the line of the nerve. The lip and chin must be pulled inwards while the nerve is stretched. The nerve may also be exposed, and a piece cut out if desired by a small incision in the same situation. The main trunJc of the inferior dental nerve has been divided within the mouth through a short vertical incision along the anterior border of the ramus of the jaw. The soft parts, including the periosteum, are turned from the bone and the nerve exposed as it enters the dental foramen. Various methods have also been devised for exposing the nerve in the dental canal, by turning the soft parts from the jaw and opening the canal with a trephine or chisel. The aurimlo-temporal nerve can be reached where it crosses the root of the zygoma after emerging from above the parotid gland. It lies immediately behind the temporal artery. In this situation it can be exposed by a small incision parallel to its course, and immediately in front of the tragus, care being taken to avoid the artery. Subcutaneous stretching had better not be attempted for fear of injuring the temporal artery. The Uiccal nerve has been divided from the mouth by an incision through the mucous membrane opposite the middle of the anterior border of the ascending ramus. The results of these operations have been far from satisfactory. Cases of permanent cure have been recorded, but as a rule the relief has been temporary, lasting only a few weeks or months. This is especially true of those cases in which the pain is referred to the distribution of the inferior dental nerve The more radical measure has therefore been adopted of excisino" this nerve between the skull and the dental foramen, by various operations which are also available for excision of the lingual, or even of the third division itself below the foramen ovale. The different procedures were fully described by William Eose in his Lettsomian Lectures of 1892. Horsley recommends the following operation, which has also been adopted by Eose and others. The eye is closed by a horse-hair suture passed through a fold of skin in each lid to protect it from the antiseptic lotions. An incision is made from above ■the upper border of the root of the zygoma straight down in front of the trao-us as far as the angle of the jaw, where it turns forwards just below the lower border of the jaw as far as the facial artery. The triangular flap thus marked out 18 turned forwards and upwards, until the anterior border of the masseter is reached. The edge of the parotid gland and the lower border of Stenson's duct are then defined. The masseteric fascia is divided transversely be- tween Stenson's duct and the highest branch of the facial nerve • then the