LIGATUIil'J OF AXTERIOR TIBIAL AND DORSAL OF FOOT. 253 posterior blunt hook, and is thus missed. The flexor longus hallucis lies so far behind the artery that it is scarcely possible to expose it. The Anterior Tibial Artery may be tied in several situations ; but, like the posterior tibial, it should not be ligatured in the upper or middle parts of the leg, except for injury. The difficulties of the operation are lessened as the ankle, where the artery becomes superficial, is approached. The line of the anterior tibial artery is from the inner side of the head of the fibula to a point exactly midway between the two malleoli ; and the course j of the dorsal artery of the foot is from this point to the cleft between the first two toes. In the upper third of the leg the artery lies deeply between the tibialis I anticus and extensor longus digitorum, surrounded by veins and having its nerve to the outer side. If it ever be found necessary to tie it in this situation, an incision should be made in the guiding line of the artery, from four to five inches in length. The deep fascia muse be opened, and, if neces- sary, notched transversely. In the upper fourth of the limb the tibialis anticus arises from the fascia, which adds somewhat to the difficulty of finding the interval between the muscles. The first intermuscular space tD the outside of the tibia is the one to be sought for. When it is found the ankle must be flexed to relax the muscles, which are then held apart with copper spatulee. The artery may then be cleaned with a director, and the needle passed obliquely beneath it. In operating high up in the limb it is possible to ' slip into the space between the peronei and the extensor longus digitorum. This error is at once recognized by finding a distinct fibrous intermuscular septum, no such structure existing between the tibialis anticns and the extensor digitorum. In the middle and lower thirds of the leg the artery will be found between the tibialis anticus and the extensor proprius hallucis ; the latter muscle does not, however, reach the surface above the middle of the leg. The right space is found by keeping accurately to the guiding line of the artery, and, after the fascia is opened, taking the outer border of the tibialis anticus as the guide. The edge of the extensor longus digitorum is recognized by its rounded tendon, reaching considerably above the middle of the leg, with fleshy fibres joining it on the outer side. The Dorsal Artery of the Foot runs from a point midway between the two malleoli to the base of the space between the first and second metatarsal bones, and may be felt pulsating in this line. It lies external to the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis, and is crossed near its lower end by the internal belly and tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. It is sometimes absent, and not unfrequently lies external to the line just mentioned. It is reached' by an incision in the line of the artery, one inch and a half in length, the lower end of which corresponds to the base of the space between the first two metatarsal bones. The superficial and deep fascia being divided, the artery may immediately come into view. If it does not, the inner belly and tendon of the extensor brevis must be sought for, and its inner border followed till the long extensor is reached. If the artery is not seen passing beneath the tendon of the short extensor, that muscle must be forcibly pulled outwards and the vessel sought for beneath it. If it does not then come into view it is probably absent. The termination of the anterior tibial nerve accompanies the artery when it is in its normal situation, and lies usually to the outer side