DISEASES OF THE FOOT. 458 the rest of the bone. No important vessels or tendons should he divided in this operation. It very rarely liappens, however, that the disease of the astragalus is hr, hmited as to make the operation practicable. When it is more deeply afffectc.d It may be removed piecemeal by the gouge, elevator, and bone-forceps, after which any disease of the articular surfaces of the calcaneum or scaphoid ma\ 1)0 scraped away. After the operation the limb must be placed on a suitable splint (Fig. 591). Excision of the ankle-joint has also been performed by a single incision on the outer side. If this plan be adopted the incision must follow the posterioi border of the lower inch of- the shaft of the fibula and the outer malleolus, round the tip of which it must be carried and then extended upwards and forwards, so as to give as much room as possible without dividing the extensoi' tendons. The lower end of the fibula is then removed, after which tli' astragalus may be loosened from its attachments or dug out with the gout:' Pig. 591.—Limb after Excision of tlie Ankle-Joint. and the tibia afterwards exposed by dislocating the foot inwards. This operation is only applicable to those cases in which from the extent of the disease it is necessary to remove the whole astragalus. If it is intended only to cut away its upper articular surface the single incision does not give sufficiently free access to the joint. Prom what has already been said it will be seen that in children formal excision of the ankle-joint may be replaced by arthrectomy, and that in adults it is doubtful whether, as a general rule, a more useful limb is not obtained by Syme's amputation. Excision for compound dislocations and fractures is now rarely performed, as in cases not requiring immediate amputation an attempt should be made to save the limb by more simple methods. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OP THE TARSUS AND METATARSUS. Looking at this subject from a diagnostic point of view—and the treatment is most intimately connected with minute and accurate diagnosis—we find that the pathology of diseases of the tarsus is closely connected with its healthy anatomy. Composed of seven bones, it presents four distinct synovial