INTESTINA L OBSTRUCTIO N. 894 CHAPTER LXII. INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. Tjie term Intestinal Obstrnction as commonly used means a total arrest of the passage of faeces and flatus through the intestine, and in that sense it will be used here ; but by some writers it is applied also to interference with the free passage of the intestinal contents, and is qualified as partial or complete. Intestinal obstruction may arise from many pathological conditions, which it is important, if possible, to distinguish from one another, as they require diflFerent lines of treatment for their relief. Our knowledge of the various causes of obstruction of the bowels has been greatly increased by the work of Fagge, Bryant, Leichtenstern, and many others, and especially by the publication of an excellent monograph on the subject by F. Treves, contain- ing, besides much original matter, a complete summary of all previous ohser- vations. Intestinal obstruction may be either Acute or Chronic, but this division does not agree accurately with one founded on pathological anatomy, as some forms of mechanical obstruction, especially intussusception, may run an acute or chronic course according to circumstances. Acute Intestinal Obstruction.—The Symptoms common to all forms of acute obstruction are as follows : The patient who may previously have been in perfect health is seized with a more or less sudden feeling of something wrong having taken place in his abdomen, or he may be taken with intense pain at one point. This pain persists to a greater or less degree throughout the case,, and is often violent and paroxysmal. Vomiting speedily follows, at first of the contents of the stomach, but after a time of stercoraceous matter. This is as a rule accompanied by an intense sense of nausea, which is not relieved by the act of vomiting. The quantity brought up is often enormous, and every drop of fluid taken is immediately returned. Constijyation is complete, neither flatus nor fseces passing, and most commonly there is no sense of any desire to go to stool. In most cases before long distensio)i of the abdomen sets in, the intestines being filled with flatus, but as a rule in acute obstruction the tension of the belly is not very great until after the third or fourth day. If the obstruction be high up in the bowel distension may be entirely wanting. If the patient be thin, the distended coils of intestine may be recognisable through the abdominal wall, but they can seldom be seen or felt rolling upon one another, nor are gurgling or rumbling noises commonly to be heard. Tend&)-ness may be found localised in one spot in the abdomen, and it then probably indicates the seat of the obstruction. If peritonitis sets in, the tenderness becomes more general, and the abdominal walls become tense and rigid. In some forms a distinct tumour may be felt within the abdomen. The Constitutional Symptoms are very severe, collapse setting in early. Occasion- ally syncope may occur at the time of invasion. The tongue is coated with a foul creamy fur, ultimately becoming dry and brown. The mind reraams clear