339 ACUTE ARTHRITIS: REPAIR. Syphilitic Epiphysitis and its eflFects on the joints have already been described (Vol. I., p. 1170). Acute Arthritis from Diseases of the Soft Parts external to the Joint.—Abscesses arising from any cause in immediate contact with a joint may burst into its cavity. When this happens, acute arthritis with destruc- tion of the articulation invariably follows. This accident may occur in acute inflammation and suppuration of the burste in the neighbourhood of a joint. In phlegmonous erysipelas the joints are occasionally opened where the liga- ments are in close contact with the subcutaneous tissue. Acute Arthritis of Infants.—Under this name, T. Smith has described a form of acute arthritis, unconnected with syphilis or injury, not uncommonly met with in very young children. It is sudden in onset, and runs a rapid course, ending in suppuration. It is most common in the knee, hip, and shoulder. The first symptom is restricted movement with pain, rapidly followed by swelling, and the formation of pus. In some cases two or three joints are affected. If the abscess is opened early, recovery may take place ; ankylosis rarely results, but more commonly a weak movable joint is left. The disease is fatal in a considerable proportion of cases. In the 21 cases recorded by T. Smith, the ages of the patients were as follows : 8 under 1 month, 4 under 2, 7 between 2 and 6, and 3 over 6 months. The post- mortem examination of the fatal cases showed rapid loss of substance in the articular end of one of the long bones entering into the joint. Acute Arthritis of Infants does not seem to be a separate disease. Some of the recorded cases were probably pyasmic, arising in very young infants from infection from the umbilical cord ; others were instances of acute epiphysitis occurring in young children. Senile Acute Arthritis.—A form of acute arthritis is occasionally, but very rarely met with, occurring independently of any external cause, but apparently due chiefly to simple loss of vitality in old persons of feeble con- stitution. I have seen it in the joints of the foot, the ankle, and in the sterno-clavicular articulation. It resembles in this respect that form of senile necrosis of bones described at p. 288. In senile arthritis the pain is veiy acute, the enlargement of the joints considerable, the wasting of muscle rapid and great. The constitutional disturbance is proportionately severe. The joint that it most frequently affects is the knee. I have seen it also in the wrist. This form of arthritis must not be confounded with the dry rheumatic arthritis of old people. It differs from this form of the disease in the acute- ness of its local symptoms and the severity of the constitutional disturbance. It is often mistaken in the first instance for gout ; but the rapidity of the process, the formation of pus within and around the joint, the necrosis of the contiguous bones, and the separation of the articular cartilages, all indicate the different nature of this affection. The disease is incurable, and usually terminates fatally. On examining the joint after removal, the cartilages will be found to be ulcerated, the synovial membrane softened, swollen and injected ; the liga- ments softened, and the articular ends of the bones congested. Repair.—Should the patient recover from acute arthritis without removal of the joint by amputation or excision, the process of repair will vary witli the extent of the mischief done before the arrest of the disease. The inflamed ligaments seldom recover their normal condition. The inflammatory products Z 2