1118 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. with these conditionB of the urine. Amorphous phosphates passed at tlio end of micturition may cause severe pain, with a constant desii-e to pass watei- lasting for an hour or less. It ceases as soon as the " alkaline tide " in thf' urine has passed (p. 102!)). In (joid, irritability of the bladder is not unfrequeutly met with. This may in some cases be owing to the acid character of the urine ; in others to gouty inflammation of the bladder or prostate. 2. Rmal disease, more particularly the lodgment of a stone in the kidney, will often occasion sympathetic pains in the bladder, with much irritability (.1 that organ, so as closely to simulate vesical disease, or eveu to lead to a suspicion of the existence of stone in the bladder. Tuberculous pyelitis will give rise to similar symptoms ; in fact, in some cases the frequency of mictu- rition may be greater than in almost any other affection of the urinary organs. 3. Disease of the Bladder itself, as a chronically inflamed state of its mucous membrane, will give rise to pain and irritation on the accumulation of a small quantity of urine, with a frequent desire for its expulsion. So, also, when the bladder is fasciculated, or sacculated, and more especially if there be a tumour in a state of ulceration, most severe and intractable irritability may be induced. 4. A Stone in the Bladder will always, by its mechanical action, by its weight and pressure, by rolling about when the body is in motion, imtate the interior of the organ ; and, in fact, the " rational symptoms " of stone in the bladder are simply those of irritability of that organ. 5. Inflammation, Ulceration, Adscess^ Tiibercle, or other Diseases of the Prostate, and inflammation, gonorrhoeal or simple, and abscess or stricture of the deeper portions of the urethra, also not unfrequently occasion irritability of the bladder. 6. Various Diseases in Neighbouring Organs will occasion this condition. Amongst the most frequent are fissure and ulcer of the rectum and anus, piles, prolapsus recti, intestinal worms, gall-stones, and varicocele. The Diagnosis of irritability of the bladder is made by the patient himself; but it is often a matter of no little difficulty to the Surgeon to ascertain the precise cause of that irritability. This can of course be done only by a careful exploration of the whole of the urinary organs, and often of the neighbouring parts ; no mere inquiry into the nature of the symptoms can do more than establish the fact of the existence of " irritability of the bladder," and afford some evidence of a negative kind as to the absence of certain causes. Nothing short of a careful exploration of the urethra, prostate, and bladder, by means of the catheter, finger, and sound, and cystoscope, can enable the prac- titioner to state with absolute certainty on what the irritability depends. I have repeatedly seen cases of stone in the bladder, and of prostatic disease, vainly treated for months as cases of simple " irritability of the bladder ; " the existence of the real cause of the symptoms having been overlooked altogether, until a proper examination of the urinary organs was instituted. So closely, in fact, do the symptoms of vesical irritation, arising from gout, or sympathetic with kidney disease, simulate those that are occasioned by stone in the bladder, that it is impossible for the most experienced medical prac- titioner to refer them with certainty to the right cause without exploring this cavity. I have known several patients who had been operated on for stone, and who, some years afterwards, suffered from gouty irritability of the bladder, imagine, but erroneously, that they were labouring under a