TUBERCULOUS JOINT DISEASE: SYMPTOMS. 349 enlarcved by deposit of new bone. The degree to which the articular ends are culavsed is very difficult to estimate, as they are usually obscured by the swelling of the surrounding soft parts, and in consequence of the wasting of the muscles, the articulation appears more swollen than it really is. If the disease continues to progress, starting of the limb sets in at night. These starting paius occur at the moment when the involuntary contraction of the muscles which fix the inflamed joint suddenly relaxes. They are especially severe when erosion of the cartilage has taken place, but they also occur in the earlier stages. After these symptoms have persisted for a varying time the swelling becomes more prominent at one part, fluctuation becomes manifest, and the skin covering the prominent part gradually assumes a dusky red tiut. Finally, if not anticipated by surgical interference, the abscess bursts, discharging unhealthy pus mixed with curdy masses. Before this takes place it may reach a considerable size and burrow for some distance from the articulation. The abscess does not necessarily occupy the whole cavity of the joint, for, as has been pointed out in describing the pathology of the disease, no cavity may exist by the time the abscess forms, the whole articular space being filled up with a mass of tuberculous granulation tissue, in one part only of which the suppuration may have taken place. In other cases the abscess may form outside the joint, superficially to the ligaments. After the abscess has burst, its cavity may gradually contract and heal, but more commonly a sinuous track is left leading to the diseased joint. In other cases, especially if the abscess but incompletely empties itself, decomposition of the discharges sets in, the granulation tissue fiUing the cavity of the joint may rapidly break down, and the disease then assumes the form of acute septic arthritis (Vol. I., ]D. 510), with severe pain and rapid destruction of such cartilage as may have remained undestroyed at the time the chronic abscess burst. The limb swells and becomes cedematous, and other abscesses form around the joint. The ligaments become further softened, grating can be felt, and the articular sur- faces become displaced. The local phenomena of white swelling may thus be divided into three stages : first, that in which the disease is apparently limited chiefly to the synovial membrane and the swelling assumes the form of the synovial cavity ; secondly, that in which the ligaments, cartilages, and articular ends of the bone become implicated, and the swelling becomes oval or rounded ; and thirdly, the stage of suppuration. The variety of tuberculous disease which has been called by Konig "tuberculous dropsy" is characterized by very clu-onic effusion, usually moderate in amount and refractory to treatment, or if any improvement takes place, speedily relapsing. The movements of the joint are limited but not painful. There is usually thickening of the synovial membrane, which may readily be felt if the distension is not great. In some cases, in the knees, Konig has felt a distinct fibroid mass resembling a tumour at the lateral reflexion of the synovial membrane. The constitutional symptoms vary in the different stages of the disease. The general health does not appear to suffer in the first stage beyond some slight febrile disturbance during exacerbations from over-exertion of the joint. In the second stage also, the general health is but slightly impaired, except from want of exercise, and at the later period from want of rest if nocturnal startings set in. In the third stage there is progressive loss of strength.