758 SURGICAL OPERATIONS ON THE CHEST. followed was due to septic fever and prolonged suppuration consequent unon imperfect drainage and decomposition of the retained fluid. With the view of preventing the accumulation of pus and diminishing the risk of sent!,, poisoning Goodfellow and l)e Morgan adopted the use of Chassai.nLH drainage- ubes with considerable advantage ; but it was not until the intro- duction of efficient antiseptic treatment that the operation became really safe and successful. In discussing the operation the following points have to be considered The best point for making the opening ; 2. The method of making it; 3. The form of tube ; 4. The dressing and after-treatment • 0 The removal of the tube ; (1. The results ; and 7. The subsequent treatment' ot the cavity should the lung fail to expand. 1. The best point for the opening is the subject of considerable difference of opinion. When the Surgeon is free to choose the position of the opening he may either select a point in the sixth intercostal space in front of the posterior axillary liue, or a point slightly below and outside the angle of the scapula. Objection has been raised to the latter position on account of the closer proximity of the ribs here than further forward, and the greater thickness of the overlying muscles. It has further been pointed out that as the patient usually lies on the affected side, an opening in the axilla is more dependent than one further back, and again, that an"opening made too far back is liable to become early overlapped by the expanding lung, and drainage thus interfered with, or a sinus difficult to heal may be left running forwards towards the anterior part of the chest. Notwithstanding these theoretical considerations, it is found that, in practice, an opening below and external to the angle of the scapula is very efficient, and if, as is usually advisable, a piece of rib is excised, the narrowness of the intercostal spaces is no objection. If, however, the Surgeon is called upon to operate without assistance, or in a case in which the administration of an anaesthetic is thought inadvisable, the removal of a piece of rib may be dispensed with, and the opening best made in the axilla at the point above described. It was pointed out by John Marshall that, immediately outside and below the junction of the fifth rib with its cartilage, there is a point in the chest wall at which, from the comparative absence of superjacent muscles, the pleura is but slightly supported externally, and through this he believed that an empyema tends naturally to point. This point is above the origin of the external oblique, external to the insertion of the rectus and internal to the origin of the serratus magnus. It is covered by the outer edge of the pectoralis major, and is beyond the anterior limit of the external intercostal muscle. That an empyema may perforate the chest at this point is undoubted, but according to most authori- ties it tends to point higher up in the second or third space. Marshall, arguing from the excellent results that usually follow the opening of an em- pyema pointing in front, suggested that the opening should always be made at the thin point above mentioned, but subsequent experience has not shown that this method presents any practical advantages. When an empyema is pointing subcutaneously, the superficial collection of pus should be opened and, as a rule, a second opening will be required in a more convenient position. In a case of localized empyema the incision must, of course, be made over the collection of pus. 2. The method of operating.—Chloroform should always be used in preference to ether, and the operation should be performed with the strictest