MOLLITIES OSSIUM. e enlarged cancellous spaces and Haversian canals are filled with an oily, red, grumous, semi-fluid substance. Microscopic examination shows, according to Cornil and Ranvier, that the fat-cells of the medulla have disappeared to a great extent, their place being occupied by small round cells, spindle-cells, and some flattened cells. Hgemorrhages into the medullary substance are common, and small cysts are often met with. In a case described by Poncet the cystic changes were so extensive as to cause considerable swellings of the bones. In the later stages the contents of the medullary spaces include a substance resembling the splenic pulp in appearance, and in which crystals of hsematoidin may be found. The trabeculse of bone appear as if they had been acted on by acid. The lime-salts have disappeared fi'om the layers of bone nearest the vessels, leaving the tissue transparent, but still showing the bone- corpuscles just as in bone artificially decalcified. This process gradually advances, and is followed by absorption of the decalcified matrix, while the corpuscles either perish or mingle with the cells of the altered medullary substance. The term " senile moUities " is sometimes incorrectly applied to the atrophy of old age. In this, however, the enlarged spaces are filled with yellow fat, and not with the characteristic tissue just described. In chemical composition, the diseased bone has been found by Leeson to be composed of 1S*75 parts of animal matter, 29"]7 of phosphate and carbonate of lime, and 52-08 of water in every hundred parts. The Causes of the disease are obscure. It has been stated that it is some- times connected with a rheumatic tendency ; as, in every case recorded, the affection has been preceded or accompanied by severe pains, resembling rheu-. matism. In some instances the patients have been affected with syphilis. Id most commonly, though not invariably, occurs in females, as pointed out by Kilian ; and in a majority of cases it appears to have a connexion with the child-bearing state. Among 131 patients whose histories have been collected by .Litzmann of Kiel, there were 85 females, in whom the disease either appeared during pregnancy or was modified in its course by this condition. Of the remaining 46 patients, 35 were females, and 11 males. It most gene- rally attacks adults, having been observed in few cases under the age of 20 ; and it may occur even at a very advanced age. Among other conditions Avhich have been supposed to take part in the causation of the disease are prolonged lactation, constant exposure to cold and damp, and insufficient animal food. _ Of the various theories which have been advanced to account for the decal- cification of the bones may be mentioned, the presence of excess of phosphoric or lactic acid, venous congestion of the medullary substance with resulting ^cess of carbonic acid, and excessive excretion of lime salts in the urine. There is little evidence, however, to support any of these hypotheses. The Seat of the Disease, according to Litzmann, varies according as it occurs within the child-bearing period or independently of this. In 85 child- bearing women, the whole skeleton was aflPected in 6 cases only, and all except the bones of the head in two ; while in 40 other cases, all parts of the skeleton were diseased in 21, and all the bones except those of the head in six. The percentage of the occurrence of the disease in various parts is shown in the lollowing table:—