1013 MOVABLE KIDNEY. wards a weak antiseptic solution stained with ink was injected into the dramage- , ube wliich entered the kidney, and was found to pass along the ureter into the bladder On the following day a small stone, presumably dislodged from the ureter by the injection, was passed per urethram. The patient made a perfect recovery. If no stone is detected in the pelvis of the kidney or ureter a fine a^sophageal bougie may be passed downwards along the ureter in the hope of . lisplacing a calculus which may be blocking it at a lower level. In an altogether doubtfnl case the suggestion of Knowsley Thornton must be taken into con- sideration : viz. to open the abdomen by Langenbuch's incision on the side 011 which the blocked ureter seems most likely to be found, and thus to explore both ureters and kidneys before proceeding to the lumbar operation. Clement Lucas and Meyer of New York have successfully operated for the relief of obstructive suppression due to blockage of the ureter of the remain- ing kidney after nephrectomy. In Lucas's case nephrectomy has been per- lormed for calculous disease. Three months later suppression occurred, and after five days' medical treatment had failed to give relief, the remaining kidney was explored from the loin, and a stone, which had acted as a ball-valve to the upper end of the ureter, removed from the pelvis. The wound healed (.-ompletely, and the patient was in good health five years after the operation. A Calculus in the Ureter is most commonly arrested at one of the three following positions: at a distance of about two inches below the kidney; at the brim of the pelvis ; and at the vesical orifice. At the first and last of these positions the ureter is narrowed, and opposite the pelvic brim it presents a sharp curve. In several cases a stone lodged in the uppermost of these posi- tions has been removed through the lumbar incision by which the kidney had been previously explored with a negative result. Calculi arrested at or above the vesical orifice of the ureter have been detected by vaginal or rectal exam- ination, and have been removed by dilatation of the female urethra, by suprapubic cystotomy, or by an incision in the roof of the vagina, as successfully practised by Emmet, Cabot, and Cotterell. The diagnosis of a stone lodged i a the ureter at or about the brim of the pelvis will usually depend upon the association of the ordinary symptoms of calculus with localized pain and ten- derness on abdominal palpation. Twynam and Arbuthnot Lane have confirmed the diagnosis in two cases by abdominal section. In Twynam's case the pain was referred to the left side, but the stone was found in the right ureter ; the abdominal wound was closed, and three weeks later the stone was removed extraperitoneally through an incision in the right iliac region similar to that employed for ligature of the common iliac artery. A similar operation has since been performed by Cotterell. In stripping up the peritoneum from the iliac fossa it must be remembered that the ureter adheres closely to the serous membrane. The use of sutures in the ureter seems to be unnecessary. In Lane's case the stone was removed transperitoneally through the exploratory incision which had been made at the outer edge of the rectus, and the incision in the ureter was closed with sutures. MOVABLE KIDNEY. Two distinct anatomical varieties of "abnormal mobility of the kidney are met with : first, the movable kidney, properly so called, in which the kidney moves behind the peritoneum; and secondly, the floating Jcidmy, the