DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 448 femur to the head of the tibia. These are connected by a transverse incision passing over the middle of the patella. The bone is then sawn through, and the flaps turned u])\vards and downwards. Other methods have been sug- gested, in which the patella and liguraentum patellse are uninjured, but it is scarcely possible to expose the joint efficiently without dividing one or the other. The next step in the operation is thus described by Wright. It " consists in carefully cutting away with forceps and scalpel or scissors every particle of pulpy granulation tissue, all the infiltrated capsule and the serai- lunar cartilages, and scraping quite clean all the articular cartilages, picking out granulation tissue from any pits in the cartilage, and if necessary gouging away any small spots of diseased bone. The process must be thorough, and extreme flexion of the limb is required to completely expose and clean tli',* posterior part of the joint; the crucial ligaments are scraped but carefully preserved, the lateral ligaments are usually divided. The upper synovial gac must be thoroughly cleaned. The most difficult part of the operation is getting away the posterior part of the semilunar cartilages and the synovial membrane at the back of the joint. The process is a tedious one, often lasting one and a half or two hours—including the subsequent putting up in a splint." Other Surgeons have divided the crucial ligaments in order to reach the back of the joint, subsequently uniting them by catgut sutures. "When the operation is completed, if the open mouths of any vessels can be seen they may be secured with catgut ligatures. The wound may then be closed. If the ligamentum patellas has been divided it must be united by thick catgut sutures. The patella, if sawn through, may be brought together in the same way, or silver wire may be used. It is very important to avoid the use of drainage-tubes. This may be done by making the incisions far enough towards the posterior part of the lateral aspect of the hmb, and by sewing them up only in the middle, leaving at least two inches on each side to unite by granulation. An antiseptic dressing of some kind must then be applied. The following will be found very efficient. The wound is first dusted with iodoform ; it is then covered with a strip of carbolized oiled silk to prevent scabbing ; over this are placed four layers of carbolic gauze, wrung out of carbolic lotion, so that the early discharge may come directly in contact with a powerful chemical antiseptic during the first twenty-four hours. Over this again is placed a layer of iodoform or salicylic wool about one inch thick, and secured with an antiseptic bandage applied with moderate firmness. The Thomas's knee-splint can then be put on (p. 444). A large mass of salicylic wool many inches in thickness is next wrapped round the hmb so as to include the splint, and to reach from the middle of the leg to the middle of the thigh, and over this a bandage is firmly applied so as to exert moderate elastic pressure. The limb is then elevated to a right angle and the tourniquet removed. If no bleeding occurs, the dressing may be left un- changed for a month or six weeks if the temperature remains low and no discharge appears. This mode of treatment has been adopted in a con- siderable number of cases in University College Hospital. In none has it been necessary to remove the dressing on account of haemorrhage, and in the great majority the wound has been found healed or merely superficial at the first dressing a month or more after the operation. The essential conditions for success are : 1. Efficient antiseptic precautious ; 2. Thorough removal of the diseased tissues: 3. Drainage without tubes by leaving some inches