ANEURISM OF DEEP FEMORAL. 237 of aneurism recorded in the British medical journals of. the present century, Crisp has found that 137 affected the popliteal, and only- 66 the femoral artery. Of these 66, 45 were situated either in the groin or upper part of the thigh, and 21 only were truly femoral or femoro-popliteal. The reason of this diflerence in the frequency of the occurrence of aneurism in different parts of the vessel, may be accounted for by its anatomical relations. In looking at the main artery of the lower extremity, in its course from Poupart's ligament to where it terminates in the anterior and posterior tibials, we see that it may be divided in relation to the muscular masses that surround it, into three principal portions : 1. That which is situated between Poupart's ligament and the inner margin of the sartorius, and which may be considered inguinal; 2. That which intervenes between this point and the aperture in the adductor tendon, and which may be considered femoral; and, 3. That division of the vessel which corresponds to the ham, and which may be considered popliteal. Of these three divisions, the first and last are comparatively superficial, and, being unsupported by muscle, readily expand ; while the central portion of the artery is closely surrounded on all sides by muscular masses, and is very unlikely to be dilated into an aneurismal tumour. We find also that the^ inguinal portion of the vessel is closely and firmly invested by a dense and resistant fibro-areolar sheath, and is well supported by the fascia lata ; whilst in the popHteal space the artery is surrounded merely by the ordinary areolar sheath, and receives no aponeurotic support. This difference in the connexions of these two parts of the vessel may, to a certain extent, explain the greater frequency of aneurism in the ham than in the upper part of the thigh. Lastly, the constant movements of the knee-joint doubtless favour the occurrence of aneurism of the popliteal artery. , Aneueism of the Deep Femoral Artery is extremely rare ; indeed, I am acquainted with only six cases. One of these occurred in a young man under my care in University College Hospital in 1870. There was a large tumour at the upper part of the thigh, over which lay the superficial femoral artery, pulsating freely. The disease was cured by compression of the common femoral artery, hydrate of chloral being given to relieve pain. Another case is recorded by Bryant as having occurred in the practice of Cock at G-uy's Hospital. The aneurism was situated at the origin of the ■deep femoral artery ; the external iliac was tied, but the patient died nine weeks after the operation. Pig. 498 is taken ft-om a patient who died of pneumonia shortly after admission into University OoUege Hospital. On examination after death, a large tumour of the thigh, which had not been very closely examined during life, proved to be a false aneurism apparently arising from rupture of a perforating artery, most probably the consequence of embolism (Univ. Coll. Museum^ 1274). Two cases are recorded by P. Marshall and J. Watson. Another has occurred under the care of C. H. Golding-Bird. The tumour had Fig. 498.—False Aneiirisiu of a Perforating Artery. 1. Conimon Femoral. 2. Superfii'ial Femoral. 'A. Deep Femoral. 4. Aneiuism, cut open.