PULSATING TUMOURS OF BONE. 323 Gross states that pulsation was present in 20 per cent, of the myeloid tumours, in 12 per cent, of the central spindle-celled growths, and in 33 per cent, of the centra] round-celled sarcomata, of which he had collected the records. In peripheral sarcomata pulsation was very rare. It is evident that pulsation cannot be recognized in central tumours until the bony wall has been completely destroyed at one side, and it is possible that the frequency with which central tumours pulsate distinctly after this has taken place may be due to the fact that the vascular mass of the tumour is surrounded on all sides but one by unyielding bone. Excluding all these cases, two other kinds of pulsating tumours have been described as occurring in bone. In one of these, which is very rare, there is developed in the bone a vascular erectile growth, closely resembling a capillary naevus in structure, composed of an infinity of vessels, interlacing in every way, so as to form a soft reddish tumour (Fig. 539). In the second form a hollow cavity is formed in a bone, scooped out of the cancellous structure and filled with blood, partly liquid and partly coagulated, and having arterial branches opening into it. The shell of bone surrounding this cavity is very thin and expanded, and after a time is usually completely absorbed on one side. This constitutes the " true aneurism of bone." Its mode of origin is uncertain. Yolkmann suggests that in some cases it may be a soft sarcoma, the original tissue of which has been entirely softened and broken down by haemorrhage into its substance. In an important communication on the subject of blood tumours of bone, presented by Eoughton to the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society in 1889, two cases are described which seem to prove their sarcomatous nature. One was a female child, aged four years, under the care of Langton in St. Bartholomew's Hospital for expansion of the upper end of the tibia. Egg-shell crackling was obtained, and an exploratory incision revealed a cavity in the bone con- taining about two ounces of altered blood and a few clots. The cavity was plugged and gradually closed ; three years later the child was perfectly well and no difference could be detected in the measurements of the limb. Microscopic examination of a piece of bone from the wall of the cavity showed that it contained myeloid sarcoma tissue which was remarkably rich in blood-vessels. In the other case, recorded by Max Oberst, a fluctuating tumour as large as two fists occupied the position of the internal condyle of the femur. Amputation was performed, and the thin layer of tissue lining the cyst consisted of myeloid sarcoma in which blood was extravasated from large thm-walled vessels. The patient died subsequently with secondary sarcomatous deposits. Eoughton suggests that the blood-vessels form an essential part of the growth-developed possibly from the multinucleated cells-and that these tumours are really angeio-sarcomata. Situation —Pulsating sarcomata may be found anywhere, bat are most common in the bones of the skull, the lower end of the tibia and upper end of me temur. i^^void growths are most common on the skull. The "true aneurism of bone " occurs most frequently in the head of the tibia. Symptoms.-When the tumour is merely a highly vascular sarcoma, the symptoms are the same as those already described as indicating a central sarcoma of bone, with the addition of pulsation and bruit. In these the oharaoZ 'I f^^^ superficial, and commonly of a thrilling cnaracter ; it may be distinctly expansile ; the bruit is usually soft and blow- Y 2