DISEASES OF THE URE THE A. 1168 and consequent rnptiire of some blood-vessels of the corpus sponaiosum asth*. consequence of attempts at passing- the catheter, or as a simple oozim i^om Z inflamed mucous membrane. Most commonly it may Ije arrested by the an plication of ice. If it be apparently due to intense inflammatory hyperajmia leeches may be applied externally followed by hot fomentations. Siiould it be abundant, the introduction of a large gum-elastic catheter, and pressure bv means of a bandage to the penis or perinffium, will arrest it. Urethral or Peri-Urethral Abscess occasionally forms in gonorrhoea It is supposed to result from inflammation culminating in suppuration takin? place in one of the lacunae or glands of the mucous membrane. An'abscess may form at any part of the urethra, but the two most common situations are near the end of the penis and in the region of the bulb. It is possible that in many cases the pus may be discharged into the urethra without being recog- nized ; but if the collection of pus reaches any size it points towards the surface. In the neighbourhood of the glans it forms a rounded swelliirr usually projecting under or to one side of the frsenum. It is tender on pressure, and the parts round are swollen and oedematous. It should be opened as early as possible lest it burst into the urethra, after which, as the aperture is usually insufiicient to drain the cavity, a second opening will form on the surface, leaving- a fistula, which is very troublesome to heal." When the abscess is situated in the region of the bulb, it forms a hard, tender swelling in the perineum, constituting one of the varieties of fmcml abscess. In this situation, also, if opened early by a free incision in the middle line, it will be found to have no communication with the urethra, and will quickly heal without leaving a fistula. If it be not opened in time, it may burrow widely beneath the accelerator urinse, and the expansion from it covering tLie penis. Under these circumstances it may be felt both at the root of the penis and in the perineum, and there may be considerable swelling of the scrotum. The incision in such a case should be made behind the scrotum only. If left too long, a communication with the urethra may have taken place, but provided the incision is made in the perinEeum only, it will heal without difficulty. Sequences of Gonorrhoea.—The sequences, or more remote complications of gonorrhoea, are partly local and partly constitutional. Amongst the local we find more particularly Warts about the prepuce and glans or within the urethral orifice, which require to be treated by excision or caustics ; and Stricture, the management of which is fully described elsewhere. In some cases, also, in consequence of extravasation of blood, or inflammatory exudation into the corpus spongiosum or the corpora cavernosa, limited and localized Induration and Thickening of the Fenis may result, attended by chordee, painful erections, and a permanent twist in the organ. In such conditions as these, an attempt may be made to produce absorption of the effused mass, by the administration of small doses of perchloride of mercury, with the inunction of iodide of lead ointment. After the cure of a clap that has been of long continuance, the generative organs are often left in a wealc and ii'ritahJe stale; the penis, scrotum, and spermatic cords being lax and elongated, often with painful and dragging sensations about the cords and groins. Besides the strictly local complications of gonorrhoea, certain sequences, to which some constitutions are especially liable, occasionally occur as the result