STRICTURE OF THE URETHRA. "73 of doubt the Surgeon had better give a very f-^f/^^^^^ into the error of inculpating an innocent woman. The ^3^^^^^ !uid a good deal of obscurity thrown over the case by the fact tlia^ f ucori tice^ scha^-eswill occasionally give rise to -^thritis closely si^u a^^^ •hoea in the male. Female Children also are occasionally subject to an acute nfl^lmatJon of the vagina and nymphs as the result of -71^^^'^ ^^'^/ consUtutional disturbance, or of teething ; these cases require to be recognized, as they have frequently been the basis of unfounded accusations. The Treatmint of gonorrhcea in the female must vary according as the disease is acute or chronic. In the acute stage salines, low di^t, rest 111 bed nd emollient sedative fomentations, are the chief means to be adopted. A he disease subsides into a chronic condition, astrmgent injections must be mployed ; a weak solution of acetate of lead or alum being especially u eftil. These injections should be employed three or four times a day and m large Quantity. After they have been thrown up, a piece of Imt well soaked m the lotion should be introduced between the opposed mucous surfaces, so as to prevent their coming into apposition, the discharge being m a great measure kept up by their friction against one another. In order that the injection may be properly given, the woman should lie flat on her back, and mtroduce the fluid with a syringe or irrigator. In the treatment of gonorrhoea m women, specifics are of no use unless the urethra be affected, when copaiba may very rarely be required. The disease is apt to degenerate into a chronic gleety condition, leaving a thin muco-puriform discharge, which will continue to be infectious for a great length of time. It is, therefore, most important not to relinquish the treatment until this is entirely cured, and the condition ot Bar- thohn's glands must particularly be observed, as the discharge from these may continue to be infectious after other parts are cured. STBICTURE OF THE URETHRA. The existence of muscular tissue in the wall of the urethra is an anatomical fact which has an important bearing upon certain phenomena presented by some forms of stricture of the canal. The arrangement of the muscular tissue was shown by Hancock to be as follows :—The fibres of the inner layer of the muscular coat of the bladder pass forwards underneath the mucous membrane of the prostatic portion of the urethra, and those from the outer layer of the muscular coat of the bladder outside the prostate. These two layers join at the membranous portion of the urethra, forming the muscular covering of this portion of the canal. At the bulb, these two layers divide again ; the inner lying underneath the mucous membrane, separated fi-om it merely by areolar tissue ; the external lying outside the corpus spongiosum, between it and its fibrous investment. At the anterior extremity of the urethra they unite again and form its lips. Thus the urethra is surrounded through its whole length by muscular fibres, a double layer of which invests it at the membranous portion, and again at the external meatus. The prostate and corpus spongiosum are included between planes of these fibres. The vesicles and ducts of the prostate are surrounded by layers of involuntary fibres ; those of the ejaculatory ducts coming from the non-striated layer of the vas deferens'. These fibres are totally distinct from the common muscular apparatus of the perinseum ; and their existence proves the urethra to be a musculo-membranous canal.