98o niSJCASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. to that period the ba3raorrhage had occurred abundantly at monthlv \nu , After the late establishment of the menstrual fnnnh-m, h1 7 ^ jWear tha ,n consequence of the over-distended and varLs condition f the veins the onward flow through the arteries and capiHa^eadTn. o tl IS obstructed ; and that, in consequence of the accumulated preTsure^^ h ! vessels, their panetes give way, allowing the florid blood to escape ^ otI7 ^^^^o'^ly the internal piles, when brought down, presenta somewhu granular surface, in consequence of ulceration having aken nlace an7 h whole surface will be seen to exude blood in drops. In othert Lees : blood appears to come from a cavity in one side of the h^moriCid if rapture had occurred from over-distension at that part The hjBmorrhage may be accompanied by a thin mucous discharge from the ectum; this would appear to be nothing more than excessive secretion from the mucous membrane, m consequence of the irritation set up by the piles • It IS seldom m sufficient quantity to produce much annoyance, or to be of much moment to the patient. Complications—Piles are not uncommonly complicated with other diseases of the rectum, such as fissure, fistula, or prolapsus. When connected with fissure, the heemorrhoid often, as Syme remarked, assumes a peculiar appearance presenting itself as a small red body, like a pea in size, firm, and seated at the base of the fissure, which it often conceals ; to a practised eye however, the presence of a pile of this peculiar colour and shape is sufiicient to indicate the existence of a fissure. In that form of fistula in which the aperture is near the anus, one or more external piles of small size are often found situated at the orifice of the fistula • and prolapsus rarely, if ever, is met with in adults, without the simultaneous occurrence of piles. Terminations.—Hemorrhoidal tumours may terminate by Subsidence,- Coagulation, Suppuration, or Sphacelus. Complete subsidence of a pile can take place only when the disease is of recent occurrence. When of long standing, and after it has been exposed to successive attacks of turgescence and inflammation, an external pile never subsides completely ; and the areolar tissue and the muco-cutaneous structures, becoming hypertrophied, form elongated pendulous flaps around the margin of the anus. Coagulation of the contents of the pile is the result of inflammation. Wlien it takes place, the tumour, after more or less acute inflammation, becomes hard, incompressible, permanent in size, and of a purplish or plum colour. The coagulum thus formed may excite suppuration, or may be absorbed, the hypertrophied tissues forming one of the usual anal folds if the pile be external. In some rare instances, the coagula may calcify and form phleboliths. . Coagulation takes place more frequently iu external than in internal piles, Qwing to their greater liability to inflammation, their exposed situation leading