241 LIGATURE OF FEMORAL ARTERY. and tied the vessel in the middle third of the thi'^h ; but his example has not been followed by modern Surgeons, on account of the far greater difficulty in reaching the vessel here than in the first part of its course. The super- ficial femoral, where it lies in Scarpa's triangle, being covered merely by the integument, the superficial fascia and the fascia lata, may be reached by as simple an operation as any that the Surgeon has to perform for the ligature of the larger vessels. The line to the artery is taken as follows : The leg is flexed and the thigh rotated outwards. The Surgeon marks a point exactly midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symphysis pubis. From this he draws a hne to the most prominent part of the inner condyle of the femur. The point selected for tying the artery must be about five inches below Poupart's hgament, as the ligature will then .be at a safe distance from the profunda, the lowest recorded point of origin of that Pig. 499.—Ligature of tlie Superficial Femoral Artery. vessel being four inches below the ligament. The incision (Fig. 499) is made in the hne above indicated, and should be from three to six inches in length, according to the amount of subcutaneous fat. It must be so arranged that the point selected for the application of the ligature shall be in the middle of Its length. The skin and superficial fascia having been divided, the fascia lata is exposed and opened to the same extent as the incision in the inteo-u- ments ; the muscular fibres of the sartorius now come into view. If the incision have been made too far inwards, it is possible that the adductor louo-us may be exposed instead of the sartorius; the error is readily recognized\v observmg the direction of the fibres, those of the adductor being downwards and outwards, and those of the sartorius downwards and inwards. The edges Z t^LT'''''^.;'' ^"'''^^ ^''''^ ^'^^ "P'"^'^ b^"^*^- Jiooks, the sartorius IS seized m the forceps and drawn outwards, the fibres of the areolar tissue VOL. II. 9 J- ^