"90 DISEASES OF THE URETHliA. ose and the „ of conical steel boi.ies al.ad ^« o^X^S^^ the patient is under an una3sthetic, though this method is nerham I properly included under simple dilatation ^ ^ '"^^'^'^'^ '''^'"^'^^ «f stricture by J)esault at the close of the last century, subsequently by various French Surgeons and in later years by Hutton of Dubli^ and^eiy extens v ly 3 1 Z ; ^ T'" of application of these tubes is as f llo; A long conductor ,s introduced through the stricture into the bladder and over this a catheter, either of gum-elastic or silver, is passed, which in its'tum IS made to serve as a conductor to a larger one. -In A^akley's instrument the conductor, or "urethral guide," consists of a small silver catheter, which after being passed through the stricture, has a long steel rod screwed into it' Uver.this a silver tube is passed, which in its turn is made to serve as a conductor ; and thus the stricture may be rapidly dilated by passing one tube over another until a full size is reached. The only difficulty in this very ingenious method—which is, however, common to it and every other plan of treating stricture by dilatation—consists in the first introduction of the urethral guide ;" when that has once passed through the stricture, the tubes Fig. 920.—Thompson's Stricture-Expander. must follow as a matter of necessity. They cannot possibly go wrong ; and, as no laceration of the stricture is effected by the instrument, it appears to be a safe means of employing rapid dilatation. b. The method of forcibly expanding a stricture by the introduction into it of a small two- or four-bladed instrument, fashioned somewhat like a narrow beaked sound, and which, by Screw-Mechanism in the handle, admits of being opened out so as to stretch the stricture to an extent corresponding to the dis- tance at which the blades are screwed apart, has many advocates; and various ingenious contrivances have been invented to effect this object. More than half a century ago, Luxmoor attempted it by the use of a four-bladed instrument. Some years later Civiale invented a stricture-expander; and subsequently two- bladed instruments, having this end in view, were introduced into practice by Perreve, Lyon, and Thompson. The accompanying drawing (Fig. 920) is a representation of the instrument used by the last-named Surgeon ; it answers the intended purpose admirably, the expansion of the blades being- effected by a screw worked by turning the handle. This should be done very slowly, several seconds being allowed to elapse between each turn of the handle, so that the tissue composing the stricture may be gradually stretched, and the canal of the urethra at the seat of stricture dilated beyond the full size, so as to be over-stretched ; the extent of dilatation may be carried up to 16 or 18, and is marked on a scale attached to the handle of the instrument. If this