338 DISEASES OF JOINTS. (L termed rheumatic, but the evidence of its being actually related to acute rheumatism is not clear. Volkmann described it under the name of Acute Croupous Arthromeniugitis, and states that it is characterized by an abundant coagulable exudation both into the synovial cavity and the soft structuies forming the joint. It seems most probable that the disease results from the infection of the joint by the organisms of suppuration, which reach it through the blood stream. It would thus be closely allied to acute necrosis of bone, and it will be observed that the mode of onset and the character of the consti- tutional disturbance ai'e very similar in the two cases. Acute Arthritis secondary to Disease of the Bones. — Chronic diseases of the bones being in most cases tuberculous in nature, these, when they extend to a neighbouring articulation most commonly lead to disease of the joint of a similar nature. The only exception to this rule is the chronic abscess in the head of a long bone. This may perforate the cartilage, allowing its contents to enter the joint, and acute arthritis, ending rapidly in suppura- tion, may be set up. If the cavity has already been opened externally and con- tains decomposing pus, septic arthritis of the most acute form always follows perfora- tion of the cartilage. The perforation of the cartilage in these cases is effected by a process of ulceration identical in character with that already described as occurring in acute arthritis commencing in the joint, the only difference being that it proceeds from the deep, instead of the articular, surface of the cartilage. Acute inflammatory processes, when extending from the bone to the joint, always set up acute arthritis. Acute in- fective periostitis or osteomyelitis of the shaft (Acute Necrosis, p. 277), usually stops at the epiphyses, and consequently seldom causes disease of the neigh- bouring joints. Exceptional cases are, however, met with m which the articulations become affected. In these there is at first abundant effusion into the cavity of the synovial membrane ; this rapidly becomes purulent, and destruction of the cartilages and softening of the ligaments quickly ° Acute osteomyelitis attacking the growing bone in tlie epiphysis and usuaUj terminating in its necrosis, or, as it is termed amis Vf vs't's,'sj no uncommon cause of acute arthritis in young subjects The causes of th affection are not always evident; sometimes .t .s ''""''"'^'i" ^ ed ,s examining a joint affected in this way, the appearances already desci bed ctocterltii of acute arthritis with ulceration o th^.»rt ages are m w tR On making a section of the epiphysis m which the ^'sease sta ted tl» bone contained in it will often be found formnig a sequestrum bathed in pus, the ca^tyTn which it lies communicating with the joint by an ulcera cd tra k Tough the cartilage. In other cases the epiphysis "'^/^ ^ P f ,!^, '^^ the shaft. Acute epiphysitis is probably in most "^f """"" mation closely allied to acute infective periostitis and osteomyelitis. Fig. 541.—a, Caries at Head of Tibia. h, Perforation of Cartilage.