774 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. gradually shortened at each dressing. In some cases healing is promoted bv he introductK.,! of a small quantity of iodoform. The worst submammary sinuses may usually be speedily made to close by this treatment. CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE BREAST. A form of chronic interstitial inflammation of the breast, affecting usually only a limited part of the gland, is not uncommonly met with in women past middle life, and is of great importance from the resemblance it bears in its clinical features to scirrhous cancer. The condition was first accurately described by Cruveilhier, under the name of " fibrous bodies " {corps fibreux) m the bi-east; and since his time it has received many other names, Fuch aa Diffuse Fibroma or Hard Elephantiasis (Virchow), Lobular Hypertrophy (Astley Cooper), Knotty or Nodular Induration (Billroth), Cirrhosis of the Mamma, Benign Induration, &c. "Chronic lobular interstitial mastitis" is, however, the best name that can be applied to it, as it correctly indicates the nature of the affection. The pathological appearances are very minutely described by Virchow. In the earliest stage, which is evidently inflammatory, the acini and duets of the gland show no change beyond a slight increase in the epithelium. The connective tissue of the affected lobule is infiltrated with small round cells, which are most numerous in the immediate neighbourhood of the acini. In the second stage the new cells undergo development into dense fibrous tissue like that of a cicatrix. This is accompanied, as in similar processes elsewhere, by shrinking of the tissue. The acini and ducts in the affected area are thus pressed upon. The epithelium undergoes fatty degeneration, and is for the most part absorbed, and thus a number of the acini are finally obliterated. Here and there, however, small retehtion-cysts form, chiefly from the ducts which have been constricted in places by the contracting fibroid tissue, while at the same time there has been a slight increase of secretion owing to the chronic inflammatory process going on in the surrounding areolar" tissue. These cysts seldom reach a size larger than that of a mustard-seed owing to the density of the tissue by which they are surrounded. The disease is very commonly limited to a single lobule of the mamma. Occasionally, however, it may be more diffused, and in such cases when the stage of shrinking is reached, the gland may become shrivelled and considerably reduced in size. The nipple may be retracted as the breast shrinks, thus still further increasing the resemblance to atrophic scirrhus. There is some reason for believing that carcinoma of the breast may actually take origin in a lobule of the gland indurated by chronic inflammation. In this connexion it is of interest that although atrophy of the glandular epithelium is the usual result of the interstitial inflammation, yet in some cases a very marked epithelial proliferation has been observed. The Causes of the condition are very obscure. It is frequently associated with some menstrual disturbance, and is not uncommonly met with at the change of life. It is most common in women who have borne children. In some cases it is attributed to an injury. The Symptoms consist in the gradual formation of a tough, hard nodule in the breast, usually situated in the peripheral part, tolerably clearly circum- scribed, and of rounded form. In size it may vaiy from a marble to a