8o DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. Weevi of the Vulva are by no means unfrequent. 1'hey are usually venous, often attain a large size, and may sometimes involve the inside of the thigh, or the periuajura, as well as the vulva. When the growth is confined to the vulva, it is best removed by the ligature. Some time ago, I removed in this way a large pendulous venous naevus, as large as two or three flattened walnuts, from the left labium of a little girl six years of age. In this case, I found it most convenient to employ the continuous ligature. The same procedure was had recourse to in order to extirpate a large naevus from the labium of a child three years of age ; but in this case the disease extended to the integuments of the perinaeum and inner side of the thigh, and was here removed by the application of strong nitric acid, after the larger growth had separated. NEVOID Lipoma.—This is a form of naevus which I have occasionally seen, but which does not appear to have attracted much notice, although Nelaton speaks of it, and Billroth says that in lipoma he has several times met with ca,vernous dilatation of the veins. It is a tumour in which the naevoid structure is conjoined with a fatty growth usually more fibrous than an ordinary lipoma. This disease is invariably seated upon the nates, back, or thigh. It occurs as a smooth, doughy, indolent tumour, incompressible, not varying in size or shape, without heat, thrill, or pulsation of any kind, possibly having a few veins ramifying over its surface, but no distinct vascular appearance. It is usually congenital, or has been noticed in early childhood ; and it continues without any very material change in shape, size, or appearance, until the inconvenience or deformity occasioned by it necessitates its removal. This is best effected by the knife. After removal, the tumour will be found to be composed of a mass of fibrous fat, having a large number of veins ramifying through it, so as to constitute a distinct vascular element, often communicating with small cysts containing a bloody fluid. The tumour has occasionally a tendency to recur after removal. In one case I operated three times for the removal of a large growth of this description, situated on the buttock, and extending forward towards the periuEeum. The first operation was performed in 1851; the second in 1856 ; and the patient, then eighteen years of age, again presented himself in 1863 with a recurrence of the growth in an ulcerated state, in the cicatrix of the former operations. The situation in which I have seen such tumours occur, where they gave rise to most incon- venience, and where their removal has required the greatest care, has been the anterior part of the thigh, just below Poupart's ligament, close upon and almost in connexion with the femoral vessels. In a case of this descriptioi], which was sent to me by Edwards of Antigua, the patient, a gentleman of that island, had suffered for some years from a chronic solid oedema of one of his legs, apparently dependent upon the pressure exercised upon the saphena and femoral veins by an elongated indolent tumour just below Poupart's liga- ment, and over the course of these vessels. This tumour had existed from childhood, and presented the signs that have just been given as characteristic of the disease under consideration. It was removed by an incision parallel to Poupart's ligament, some careful dissection being required to separate it from the femoral sheath, more particularly towards the inner side, where a prolonga- tion of the tumour dipped down by the side of the femoral vein, compressing that vessel, and thus causing the" oedema of the limb. After removal, the tumour was found to consist of a mass of dense adipose tissue, with much