'54 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. portion of the aorta aifected by it ; more according to the latter than to the former condition. When the aneurism arises from the root of the aorta and more especially when it is intrapericardial, it is usually of small size, and its pressure-effects will be little obvious. When the aneurism arises from the termmatton of the arch, or the descending aorta, it may often attain a consider- able development without causing any very obvious pressure-effects. Aneurisms that are situated within the concavity of the arch necessarily give rise to very severe effects, by the compression they must exercise .upon some one or other of the very important structures that are included within the aortic arch When the anterior part of'the is affected, the aneurism may attain a very considerable bulk, even coming forward so as to project and pulsate between the intercostal spaces, without any very noticeable jiressure-eflects being induced; but when the pos- terior wall of the artery is the seat of the disease, severe symptoms are caused by the compression of the structures lying contigu- ous to the artery and erosion of the vertcbrge (Figs. 467, 468). When the iqiper part of the aortic arch is the seat of aneurism, a Fig. 407.—Bi'osion of Intervertebral Substance by a small Aneurism of De- scending Aorta pressing backwards. Fig. 40S.—Aneurism of Thoracic Aorta, causing erosion of dor.sal vertebriL'. The intervertebral discs appear un- changed. The aneurism has undergone sjiontaneous cure, by the deposit of laminated iibrin. peculiar train of cerebral symptoms, such as vertigo, insensibility, or defective vision, may be induced by its interference with the circulation through the carotids. The pressure-effects that need chiefly engage our attention are :—], Pain, 2, Dyspnoea ; 3, Dysphagia ; and 4, CEdema. 1. Pain is usually one of the earliest symptoms of intrathoracic aneurism, and is frequently of great value from a diagnostic point of view, as it is often most marked when the other symptoms are least developed. It is generally more severe in sacculated than in fusiform aneurisms, and when the