542 DEFORMITIES OF THE LEO AND FOOT. The explanation of cases of rickety genu valgum which therefore seems- n)08t satisfactory is that the growth of the rickety bone is especially interfered with in those parts through which the weight is chiefly transmitted, and that thus the increase in length is proportionately greater in the inner half of the epiphysial line than in the outer. Thus the internal condyle ig displaced downwards although not itself enlarged. In some instances the detormity is increased by a curvature of the upper end of the tihia resulting probably from a deficient growth in its outer part. In those cases in which genu valgum develops in early adult life it is probable that a i^elaxed condition of the ligaments of the knee-joint is the primary con- dition. If the subject of a thus weakened joint is compelled to spend the greater part of the day in the standing position, and is, perhaps, engaged in work which involves the carrying of heavy weights, the knee will tend to yield in an mward direction. In cases which arise directly in this way, Little states that a distinct gap, often of considerable width, may be felt between the inner side of the head of the tibia and the femur. Although in this variety of the deformity the ligaments are primarily affected, the lower end of the femur gradually becomes altered and an apparent enlargement of the internal condyle is produced by a defi- cient growth in the outer part of the epiphysial line resulting from the undue share of the weight of the body which is thrown upon it. The important part taken by the relaxation of ligaments in the causation of knock-knee in young adults is well illustrated by the occasional occurrence of the deformity as a sequel of chronic synovitis, and also following excision or arthrectomy of the joint, if the patient be allowed to dispense with support to the joint before the part is thoroughly consoli- dated. In all forms of genu valgum the defor- mity disappears when the knee is flexed, because the internal condyle is displaced downwards, but without any corresponding increase in its antero-posterior diameter. In extreme cases of knock-knee the joint is often capable of some degree of over-extension, the leg at the same time rotating outwards. Treatment. In young children the treatment of genu valgum should consist in the first place in careful attention to the diet, and the administra- tion of cod-liver oil and tonics. With the object of preventing an increase in the deformity, the child must for awhile be kept entirely off'its feet. This is best done by applying a light wooden splint, carefully padded, to the outer side of the limb. It should reach from the hip to between two and three inches beyond the foot. The splint is attached to the thigh and leg, by bandages or soft webbing straps, and should be worn constantly except at night. Every morning and evening the limb should be well douched with cold or tepid salt water and thoroughly rubbed, whilst the leg is drawn firmly inwards. In the case of older children, external wooden spUnts may still be used, but should not reach beyond the foot, so that the child is able to walk. The Fig. 640.—Apparatus for Knock-knee.