DISEASES OF THE NOSE. generally advisable to use antiseptic injections and iodoform for a few days previously. After the operation means must be taken to cure the purulent catarrh upon which the growth is dependent. Nervous Deafness is recognized by the absence of the symptoms of any of the foregoing diseases, or of the history of their occurrence, and by the fact that a vibrating tuning-fork is either not heard at all or imperfectly heard when it is placed upon the vertex or on the mastoid. As it is not amenable to surgical treatment, it is needless to discuss here its causes or pathology. DISEASES OF THE NOSE. External Affections of the Nose.—Acne Rosacea is an affection of the skin of the nose, in many cases distinctly resulting from alcoholic excess, in others, especially in women, being apparently connected with chronic dyspepsia. It commences as a red spot on which dilated capillaries are visible, and extends" gradually over the whole tip of the nose and often to the adjacent parts of the face. At first the sebaceous follicles are not affected, but later on they usually become enlarged, making the surface more or less tuberculated. Some thickening of the skin usually occurs at this stage. The treaimeni consists in correcting evil habits in drinking or eating, and attention to the digestion and general health. Locally, iodide of sulphur ointment is useful. "Lipoma Nasi" is a chronic hypertrophy of the cutaneous and subcutaneous Fig. 6(55.—"Lipoma Nasi" before operation. Fig. 6(36.—Same Nose after Operation. Structures, forming a large reddish-blue, vascular-looking, soft, and lobulated mass, enveloping the end of the nose, and producing excessive deformity o it There are all degrees of this disease, from mere clubbmg of the end of the organ, to the formation of a set of pendulous lobular tumours attached to it. The sebaceous glands are greatly enlarged in this disease often reachm the size of small peas. The patient's appearance may be greatly ^proved by the removal of these growths, as is shown in Figs. 6G5, G66, taken from a