1^88 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. :'- ■ on withdrawing it, it will be found covered with blood, and there wiH-be frp<. haemorrhage from the urethra. - ■ ■ , . ^ The Surgeon knows when he has entered an old false passage by the chanire that takes place in the direction of the instrument, by its not reachincr the bladder and by the rough sensation communicated to it, very diiferentfrom that afforded by the smooth lining of the urethra. The patient is often conscious of the existence and of the entry of the instrument into the false passage, and will warn the Surgeon of it. If the Surgeon be aware that he has made a false passage, he should, if possible, at the time of the accident pass a catheter into the bladdp.r, and leave it there for a few days until the laceration has healed. If there be an old false passage he must be careful, by keeping the point of the instrument away from it, not to enter it, lest during the introduction of the catheter he raise with the point of the instrument the valvular angle that intervenes between it and the urethra; every time that this is opened up tends to lessen the chance of closure of the aperture, whilst, overlapping the urethra, it interferes with the onward passage of the instrument into the bladder. By withdrawing the instrument and changing its direction, the false passage may often be avoided, and the bladder reached. Should there have been much difficulty in introducing the catheter, the better plan will be to allow it to remain in for two or three days, when the false canal may possibly close. ^ It has already been stated that, in certain forms of stricture, gradual dilata- tion does not succeed in elfecting a permanent cure. In these cases, five plans of treatment have been recommended: continuous dilatation, electrolysis, forcible dilatation, division by the knife, and excision. These methods will now be described. 2. Contiuuous Dilatation is merely a modification of the preceding mode of treatment, and is useful only in very tight strictures. A small instrument is passed and tied in. In tying the catheter in, care should be taken that it does not lie too far in the bladder. It should be pushed backwards and forwards until the exact point is found at which the eye is inside suffi- ciently to allow the water to flow, and be fixed at this point. It is best retained by soft thick silk tied round the corona of the glans, or fixed to the body of the penis by a piece of jjlaster, care of course being taken not to pro- duce strangulation. In from twelve to twenty-four hours, although it may at first have been tightly grasped, the catheter will be found to be quite loose, and urine will escape beside it. It must now be changed for a larger one. In doing this, the fresh instrument should be ready, so that the moment one is removed the other may be introduced. A neglect of this precaution, especially when false passages are present, may seriously increase the difficulty of passing the fresh catheter. By the second day a slight discharge will be found to have been set up from the urethra. The treatment should be continued till the urethra reaches the size of No. 5 or 6, which it will do in a few days at most> after which it is not necessary. The catheter may be closed with a small wooden plug, so that the patient can draw off his own urine, or, better still, an india-rubber tube may be attached so as to drain the bladder. In cases in which a gum-elastic catheter cannot be passed, a small silver one may be tied in, and replaced by a gum-elastic at the first change. When nothing but a filiform whalebone or catgut bougie has been passed, it may still be tied in, as the urine will usually find its way beside it even when it seems at first to be