HERNIOTOMY. AFTER-TREATMENT. 849. f'" ted or ;T:errol<i"°nd feeble, or suffering from bronehit.s, the r:Th * ; of thet'C the ring should ujt be closed as should gangrene «rutnheXa^%;rtr;^^^^^ ts at tL loind The experience'of recent years has cleary shown 2t inUperly sXcted cases the patient's danger is not increased by con- Sin" *e operation with a radical cure. If no means be taken to close the S tL opening in the sac heals readily under the pressure of the dressing to oblteaZ\y adhesion of its sides rarely occurs, and consequently the hernia returns when the wound is healed. _ ^-Upf-hpr Treatment of the Wound.-After the operation is completed whether the sac brremoved or not, the wound must be brought together with su ures, lnru2ss?tTs perfectly dry it is better to introduce a small tube at the ower S^l Tny efikient antiseptic dressing may be used, and care must be taken S it surrounds the wound for some distance. TJniforrn elastic Fessnre is best obtained by a large wool-dressing firmly secured with a bandage and a sbgle turn of an'elastic bandage may conveniently be passed over the abdo™^ opening to act as a truss. In the absence of other dressings, simple ^^y 1 nt 01 cotton-wool may be used. Primary union occurs m most cases and unless a drainaae-tube has been used the dressing can usually be left undisturbed foi eight or ten days. Should suppuration occur the stitches must be removed and a hght antiseptic dressing applied, lest the pus, not finding a ready outlet, may either be diffused between the muscular planes of the abdommal wall, or return into the peritoneal cavity, exciting inflammation of it,—a result which I have more than once seen occur. After-Treatment.—The patient should be kept quiet m bed, with the leg on the affected side bent over a pillow. From 30 to 40111. of laudanum may then be given, or i to i gr. of morphia hypodermically. If the strangu- lation has been of very short duration—under 24 hours—and the gut but httle congested, the patient may be left without further medical treatment until the bowels act by themselves, unless this be delayed for five or six days, when a castor-oil and gruel enema may be given. In all cases in which the strangulation has been of longer duration and more severe, the bowels must be kept confined by small doses of opium till the fourth day at least. The opium may then be discontinued if there is no abdominal tenderness or • other bad symptom, and the bowels allowed to act naturally. If they do not act before the end of a week and the patient is well in other respects, an enema may be given. It is of very great importance not to administer any purgatives. If the mechanical obstruction has been removed the bowels will be s'lire to recover their proper functions ; though, in consequence of the gut having been severely constricted by the pressure of the stricture, it may ref[uire to be left quiet for a few days before it can recover its peristaltic action. The administration of purgatives, by still further irritating it, will increase the risk of inflammation, and will probably do much harm. The patient, of course, must be kept upon the simplest and most unirritating VOL. II. ^ '