SIiMFLE STRICTURE OF THE REGTUM. 953 STRICTURE-SIMPLE, SYPHILITIC AND MALI&NANT. Stricture may be met ^A'ifch in any part of the large intestine, but it occnrs w i th very varying degrees of frequency in different portions of that gut. i^xces- sively rarely met with in the ascending or transverse, of unfrequent occurrence in the descending colon, it becomes more common in the sigmoid flexure, and very frequently occurs at about the junction of this portion of the colon witn the rectum. In the rectum itself it is most commonly found either at the upper p?rt from four to six inches above the anus, or else a little above that aperture. The frequent passage of small quantities of liquid f^ces, with occasional constipation, should always lead to a suspicion of stricture. lb is of three kinds : 1, the simple, dependent on simple thickening of the intestinal coats ; 2, the syphilitic; and 3, the malignant, consisting of a can- cerous growth of the walls of the gut. Simple or Fibrous Stricture of the rectum is most commonly situated within easy reach of the finger, about three inches from the anus. It most commonly occurs in elderly people, and with special frequency m females. It may result from any condition which leads to the formation of cicatricial tissue in the wall of the bowel. Thus it may follow injury of the part, especially if attended with sloughing and loss of substance as sometimes happens during parturition. A common cause is the contraction following the healing of ulcers of various kinds such as those due to chronic dysentery, chancres, and possibly tuberculous ulceration. Harrison Cripps believes that the frequent spasm induced by the irritation of ulcers and other conditions in the rectum takes an important share in gradually causing actual organic stricture. In some cases the narrowing is really caused by inflammatory thickening out- side the gat, especially in women who have suffered from pelvic cellulitis after labour. In such cases the stricture is seated just within reach of the finger. The Symptoms of simple stricture of the rectum consist at first of some difficulty in defecation, the patient being obliged to strain at stool. Often there is a history of alternating diarrhcea and constipation. The stricture becomes temporarily blocked by scybala, and when these escape an attack of spurious diarrhoea follows, the liquid matter which is passed being largely mucus poured out by the irritated mucous membrane above the stricture. When the stricture is quite low down the faeces may be flattened, narrowed or furrowed, but in most instances this symptom is not noticeable. There is very commonly pain in defgecation, with occasional passage of some mucus or blood ; and dyspeptic symptoms, with flatulent distension of the abdomen, are apt to come on. As a rule the stricture is within easy reach of the finger, so that its precise situation and diameter can be ascertained. The examination should never be made with the patient leaning over a chair, as in this position the gut is drawn up, and the stricture may then be taken out of reach. A stricture beyond the reach of the finger may be examined by the introduc- tion of a well-greased bougie, attention being paid to the curve which the rectum makes laterally, as well as from before backwards. The information gained in this way is very uncertain, as the point of the instrument is apt to hitch in folds of the mucous membrane, or opposite the promontory of the sacrum ; and thus there may seem to be a constriction, which in reality does not exist. Unless great,care be taken the mucous membrane may actually be lacerated, and the instrument even forced into the peritoneal cavity. In other