617 EXCISION OF THYROID. and others shortly after the operation from septicEemia and other causes. Since 1870 the operation has very frequently been performed by M. Watson Kocher, Billroth, and many others, with a large amount of success, so far as the immediate result is concerned. In 1883, however, Reverdin and Kocher observed that in a considerable number of cases the complete removal ot the thyroid o-land was followed by a peculiar train of symptoms termmatmg in many cases in death. At the time Kocher published his observations^ he had partially or wholly excised the thyroid body in 101 cases : of these he was able to trace the after-conditions in 28 cases of partial, and in 18 cases of total, extirpation of this organ. In none of the cases of partia excision was any deterioration of health noticeable. Of the 18 cases of total extirpation, in two only was there no change for the worse with regard to the general health, and it was most remarkable that in one of these cases a vicarious hypertrophy of a small accessory thyroid body had taken place, wWlst in the other a return of the goitre had made its appearance. In all the remaining 16 cases of total extirpation, more or less marked sigus of derangement of the general health were manifest. This derangement was of a progressive character, being more noticeable in the oldest, least so in the more recent cases that had been operated on. Kocher describes the symptoms that manifest themselves as occurring in the following order. Some time after leaving the hospital a sense of fatigue, lassitude, and weariness was experienced in the limbs, with dragging pains in the arms and legs. A sensation of coldness soon was superadded, especially in the hands and feet, which parts in the winter become bluish-red and cold, chilblains making their appearance. The mental activity decreased ; thought and speech became slow. The movements generally were sluggish, but there was no impairment of the mental powers. Swelling of the body, but more especially of the face, now began to take place. The eyelids became thickened and somewhat transparent, and the expression of the countenance idiotic. The hands, face, and abdomen swelled ; the skin lost its elasticity and became dry ; the hair fell off, and in more developed cases anaemia occurred. In young subjects the growth of the body was retarded in a very marked manner. In some cases dysphagia, headache, and giddiness were met with. These symptoms, to which Kocher gave the name of " cachexia strumi- priva," it will be observed, are identical with those of the disease first described by Gull as a " cretinoid condition," and subsequently more fully by Ord, under the name of "myxoedema." Ord showed that this condition is invariably associated with more or less complete atrophy of the thyroid body. Beyond this, the characteristic post-mortem appearance in the disease is the presence of large quantities of mucin in every tissue in the body. In 1885 Horsley showed that by removing the thyroid gland in monkeys an identical condition was invariably produced. These observations clearly prove that the thyroid gland plays some most important part in the animal economy, although its exact functions are not as yet accurately determined. They show, moreover, that complete removal of the thyroid body is not a justifiable proceeding, and that whatever mode of operating be adopted some portion of the gland substance should be left behind. The operations which may be undertaken are partial excision of the gland, excision of the isthmus, and scooping out a portion of the substance of the tumour.