DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. slightly less obliquely, so that its posterior end is from three-quarters of an inch to an inch below the rib. This is necessary to avoid the risk of wounding, the pleura, which often extends below the last rib posteriorly for from half t^. three-quarters of an inch. This incision may be enlarged forwards if necessary care being taken to avoid wounding the peritoneum ; but should more room be required for any purpose, it is best obtained by cutting from the first incision downwards towards the crest of the ilium, parallel to the outer border of the quadratus lumborum. The position of the patient and the early stages of the operation are the same as those of colotomy, except that the incision is placed higher up; for the anatomy of the parts cut through the reader is referred to the description of that operation (p. 921). The fat about the kidney being reached, the wound must be held forcibly open by copper spatula, wiiiie an assistant pushes the kidney towards the wound by pressing on the abdomen The fat is then torn through with fingers or forceps, keeping to the back part of the wound close to the quadratus. If the fat is much indurated by chronic perinephritis, considerable difficulty may be found in exposing the capsule of the kidney, but in a case suitable for nephro-lithotomy, in which the kidney is healthy, no difficulty is found in so doing. The sense of resistance offered by the solid mass of the kidney will serve as a guide to the direction in which it is to be sought. This part of the operation is accompanied by little or no bleeding. The kidney, being exposed fully, should now be methodically punc- tured with a smooth round needle. A common darning-needle held in a pair of torsion-forceps answers the purpose admirably. A piece of carbolized silk may be passed through the eye and tied round the forceps to prevent the needle from accidentally slipping out. If, after a methodical examination carried out over the whole kidney, nothing is felt, the forefingers maybe passed before and behind it, and the kidney pressed between them and the pelvis and upper end of the ureter examined. Supposing a stone has not been detected by these methods, the Surgeon should proceed to incise the kidney, in order that he may explore its interior. A narrow scalpel is passed through the kidney substance at its convex border in the direction of the pelvis, and this puncture is sufficiently dilated with sinus or polypus-forceps to allow the introduction of the finger. The incision is usually followed by a profuse gush of blood, which is at first very alarming, but the pressure of a sponge for a few minutes arrests it. The pelvis is now carefully explored with the finger, and with a small bladder-sound which is passed into the different calyces and into the upper end of the ureter. Before proceeding to puncture or incise the kidney, Morris turns the organ out on to the surface of the loin, and is thus able to examine it thoroughly by sight as well as by touch. The stone is removed through the incision by which it was detected, or if the stone was found with the needle, by passing a scalpel do^vn to it before the needle is removed. The finger is inserted, and the stone may perhaps be hooked out by it; but if this cannot be done, a pair of forceps must be applied, guided by the finger. It is better in all cases to cut through the cortex, and not to try to open the pelvis. Wounds of the kidney substance heal readily, but those of the pelvis are apt to leave a fistula. The stone having been removed and all bleeding arrested by temporary pressure on the kidney with a sponge, the external wound may be closed by sutures, leaving an opening at its middle for a drainage-tube, which should reach the kidney