CONDITIONS PRODUCING DYSPHAGIA. l^S occurs from starvation before the local disease is sufficiently advanced to cause these complications. Secondary growths are rare except m the lym- phatic glands. In a case in University College Hospital, however seconda y cn-owths occurred in several bones as well as in the lymphatic g^^nds and hiucr Spontaneous fracture occurred in the humerus on each side, and in one'clavicle. Microscopic examination showed the primary tumour whicH was seated a little below the larynx, to be a glandular carcinoma, ihe turtner symptoms and treatment will be discussed with stricture of the oesophagus. Stricture of the (Esophagus and Dysphagia.-The characteristic feature of all forms of oesophageal obstruction is that the patient is conscious of the fact that the bolus of food after leaving the pharynx is arrested at some point on its way to the stomach. He will usually indicate the point with his finger externally, and often with great accuracy. Dysphagia may be due to three classes of causes: first, to conditions unconnected with any actual narrowing of the oesophagus; secondly, to nervous or spasmodic strictm-e ; and thirdly, to organic stricture. Conditions producing Dysphagia independently of Stricture.— These are numerous, and may be divided as follows :— 1. Tumours connected with the Pharynx.—Putting out of considera- tion tumours of the tonsils, which would always bo readily discovered, polypus of the pharynx may hang down and ofl"er obstruction to the passage of food. In all polypoid growths connected with the pharynx (which are exceedingly rare) the nature, connexions, &c., of the growth may be made out by drawing the tongue well forward, keeping it fixed with a spatula, and passing the finger well down behind the root of the organ ; the pharynx can thus be explored, even below the root of the epiglottis, without much difficulty. Alscess may exist between the posterior wall of the pharynx and the spine, or a retro- phanjngeal tumour, as, for instance, a sarcomatous growth, may be developed from the bodies of the vertebrse, and push the pharynx forwards. The eye is often deceived in these cases, failing to detect the existence of an enlargement at the back of the pharynx ; but the finger readily recognizes it. In the case of abscess there is fluctuation, and the dysphagia will be removed by opening the abscess and letting out the contents ; and the solid, or semi-sohd and soft, or other feel of a tumour in this situation will suggest its probable nature. Diverticula from the upper end of the oesophagus or lower end of the pharynx (p. 713), are also a rare cause of dysphagia. Angular curvature forwards of the cervical spine projecting into the pharynx has been recorded as causing dysphagia. 2. Morbid Conditions of the Larynx.—OEdema about the back of the epiglottis, or ulceration, and thickening of the mucous membrane, dependent upon syphihs or tubercle, or oedema about the rima glottidis, may give rise . to a tendency for hquids to pass into the air-passages, and thus occasion a serious impediment in swallowing, the difficulty being attended with a feeling of spasm and suffocation. By passing the finger down behind the root of the tongue, the state of the parts can sometimes be felt, and the actual condition can readily be ascertained by the use of the laryngoscope ; but the combination of dysphagia with a sufibcative fit, and these probably associated with laryngeal cough, are the chief points in the diagnosis. 3. Tumours in the Neck outside the (Esophagus.—Enlarged glands or a carotid aneurism, developing posteriorly, as has been known to occur