6o4 DISEASES OF THE JAPS. opemfced, aud of which I have notes, thirteen were above sixty, and six between Mty and sixty years of age ; in one case only did tlie disease occur undtT thirty. This disease is at first entirely local, often being induced by some irritation, as by a rugged broken tooth, or by smoking a clay-pipe ; and when completely removed it does not, T believe, very commonly recur. At least of the very many patients that have been operated npon at the University College Hospital, 1 have known but few to return with a recurrence of the disease ; I cannot, therefore, but come to the conclusion that the operation for epithelioma of the lower lip frequently rids the patient permanently of his disease. Wlien return does take place, it is not always in the cicatrix or in the adjacent glands. I have seen recurrence at the angle of the mouth and inside the cheek of the side opposite to that on which the primary disease had declared Fig. (57(3.—Ext(insive Epithelioma of the Lip : Lines of Incision. Fig. 677.—Epithelioma of Lower Lip involviiij^ Jaw, successfully removed (Heath). itself and been removed, and this not till three or four years after the operation.. In these cases the tumour was probably a fresh primary growth. When the glands are enlarged, the advisability of operating will depend i upon the extent of the glandular implication. It must be remembered that: the internal organs are affected in epithelioma only in exceptional cases, and i thus "we may hope occasionally to cure the patient permanently even after implication of the lymphatic glands. If merely the submaxillary lymphatic glands are enlarged, they should be fully exposed by a curved incision carried I from near the symphysis to the level of the hyoid bone and back to the edge of the sterno-mastoid. The facial artery and vein will probably be divided,, and sometimes it is necessary to remove the submaxillary gland which may be implicated by extension from the neighbouring lymphatic glands. A gland must also be sought for between the genio-hyoid muscles. If enlarged glands ■ can be felt beneath the sterno-mastoid, it is rarely wise to operate, as these can