DISEASES OF THE VRETUIIA. I206 groins, or the anterior portion of the abdominal wall ; but it may reach the costal cartilages before proving fatal. The Constitutional Disturbance is always very great. At first there is high fever, with a rapid full pulse ; but the symptoms speedily assume the form met with in acute septic poisoning. The tongue becomes brown and dry ; there may be vomiting ; the pulse becomes small and very rapid • muttering delirium sets in, ending in insensibility, and death quickly follows. The Treatrnmit must be active and immediate, and consists in making a free exit for the urine infiltrating the tissues, and preventing further extravasation by establishing free drainage of the bladder. As soon as any pain and throb- bing, with diffused swelling, occur in the perineum, with redness and oedema of the scrotum, a deep median incision should be made so as, if possible, to open the dilated urethra behind the stricture. The patient having been placed in the position for lithotomy, the Surgeon should introduce his left index- finger into the rectum, so that the gut may not be wounded, and then pushing a long sharp-pointed bistoury deeply in the raphe of the perinaeum, cut upward to a sufficient extent into the extravasation, and in the direction of the urethra. A catheter should then, if possible, be introduced, secured in the bladder, and left unplugged, with an india-rubber tube attached ; in this way no further extravasation can occur, an outlet will be aflForded to matters already effused, and the urine will escape by the aperture thus made. Should the case not be seen until extravasation has spread widely, a free incision should be made not only into the perinsBum, extending into the urethra, but also into the scrotum on each side of the septum, into the penis, and wherever else swelling is observed. The sole chance of safety for the patient is in making these free incisions, through which the parts may, to a certain extent, empty themselves. However extensive the infiltration and serious the mischief may be, we need not despair of the patient if a free outlet can be obtained for the acrid and putrescent urine ; and in order to secure this, the infiltration must be followed by incisions as high as it extends. The parts must be covered with some warm and moist antiseptic dressing, the best being boric acid lint moistened with warm boric acid lotion, and at the same time they should be well dusted with iodoform. If this be not at hand the surface may be greased with carbohc oil (1 in 10), or terebene and oil and fomentations made of oakum wrung out of boiling water may be applied. These applications are cleaner than poultices, and should always be preferred. The patient will often experience great relief from frequent hot hip-baths, Condy's fluid or boric acid being added to the water. In this way the parts can be most thoroughly cleaned without pain to the patient. If the patient survive the immediate impression upon the system produced by the gangrene and the urinary infiltration, he must be prepared to go through a severe trial to his constitutional powers, in the separation of the sloughs, the profuse discharge, and other sources of irritation that are set up. During this period he will require abundant support—the brandy-and-egg mixture, ammonia and bark, with any nourishment that he can take ; and much attention should be paid to the removal of the sloughs, to providing a ready outlet for discharges, and to keeping the patient as clean and as free from all local irritation as possible. As soon as possible the stricture must be dealt with by one of the means already described, and thus the fistula in the perinjEum allowed to heal.