ANEURISM. 122 ca diac side only of the sac, yet he differed from him in doing so at a consider- able distance above the tumour, where the application of the ligature would be attended with less risk of haemorrhage, and without the danger of opening or exciting inflammation in the sac, which is inseparable from Auel's operation. , , '^^^^ following are the reasons, given in Everard Home's own words, that induced John Hunter to adopt the operation which is now generally known in surgery as the Hunierian. " Mr. Hunter proposed, in performing this operation, that the artery should be taken up at some distance from tlic diseased jmrt, so as to diminish the risk of haemorrhage, and admit of the artery being more readily secured should anv such accident happen. The force of the circulation beini;- thus taken off from the aneurismal sac, the cause of the disease would, in Mr. Hunter's opinion, be removed ; and he thought it highly probable that, if the parts were left to themselves, the sac, with the coagulated blood contained in it, might be absorbed, and the whole of the tumour removed by the action of the animal economy, which would con- sequently render any opening into the sac unnecessary." Hunter's first operation was performed in December, 1785, in a case of popliteal aneurism. The femoral artery was liga- tured rather below the middle of the thigh, underneath the sartorius muscle. The Effects produced upon an aneurism by the liga- ture of the artery according to the Hunterian method, deserve careful attention. The immediate effect, on drawing the ligature tight, consists in a cessation of pulsation and bruit in the tumour, which at the same time diminishes in size, becoming partly emptied of its blood. The supply of blood to the limb being in a great measure cut off, it becomes numb and cold, with a diminution of muscular power. The more remote effects consist in an increase of the activity of the collateral circulation, by which the vitahty of the limb is maintained. At the same time, and, indeed, in consequence of this, the temperature of the limb often rises, until it becomes higher than that of its fellow. The consolidation of the aneurism begins as soon as the ligature is applied, and is usually completed in a few days, by changes taking place within it similar to those that occur in the spontaneous cure of the disease. This im- portant change is effected by the gradual deposit of stratified fibrin in concentric layers within the sac, and occasionally by the sudden coagulation of its contents. For the cure to be accomplished by the deposit of laminated fibrin, it is necessary that, though the direct flow of blood through the tumour be arrested by the ligature of the main trunk, some should yet be carried into it by collateral channels. This is a condition very favourable to the success of the ligature ; for, if it happen that all the flow of blood through the tumour is arrested, coagulation of that which happens to be contained in it will ensue, and a soft yielding clot be formed, which is more likely to lead to unfavourable results than the firm products of slow coagulation. It is of importance to u Fig. 4oT.—Femoral Artery ligatured for Popliteal Aneurism, obliterated at «, the site of the Ligature, and at h, where the Tumour has become consolidated and ab- sorbed : between these points the Artery is open, and collateral branches enlarged.