DISEASES OF THE SPINE. 472 fibrous tissue, representing the cutis and the protruded membranes, with the inner surface of which the projecting part qf the cord is incorporated, Tlie sac is distended with cerebro-spinal fluid, and the nerves arising from the protruded part of the cord cross the cavity to reach their respective foramina (Fig, OOO). The nervous tissue of the cord is usually much thinned and spread out at the point at which it is adherent to the sac, so as sometimes to be scarcely recognizable except by the nerves spring- ing from it. In most cases a shallow depression mai'ks externally the point at which the cord is adherent to the sac. i). Syringo-myelocele.—In this form the central canal of the cord is dilated, and the interior of the sac formed by the protruded membranes is lined by a thin layer of nervous tissue, between which and the sac lie the nerves arising from the part of the cord implicated. This variety is very rare. The Committee of the Clinical Society met with only two unequivocal examples. Under the name of Spina Bifida Occulta a few cases have been described by Ornstein, Virchow, Fischer, Reckling- hausen, Bland Sutton and others, in which the essential conditions of a meningo- myelocele are present without the protrusion of any tumour. That is to say the neural arches are cleft, and in the gap the skin, membranes and cord are blended together. There is a depression corresponding to the deficient spine, and from this has sprung in all recorded cases a tuft of hair, sometimes of extraordinary length. In some of the cases the whole lumbar region was covered with thick hair. This form of the disease has been accompanied in several of the recorded cases by ulceration and disease of the bones of the foot, resembling the so-called " perforating ulcer " (p. 19), and a case of the same kind was recently in University College Hospital. In a case of this nature in which amputation of the foot was performed, Klebs found well-marked inflammation of the nerves. In some cases there has been a slight degree of club-foot, and in some instances extroversion of the bladder. In another rare form of spina bifida occurring in the sacral region, the tumour is composed of a small protrusion of the membranes covered by a thick layer of somewhat dense fat, completely concealing the nature of the disease. I have known of a case in which an attempt was made to remove the tumour, under the impression that it was a fatty outgrowth. The small protrusion of the membranes was only discovered when it was wounded towards the end of the operation. The patient died of septic spmal meningitis. The occurrence of spina bifida has been attributed to an excessive secretion of cerebro-spiual fluid, or to dropsy of the central canal, causing a protrusion of the membranes, and thus preventing the union of the neural Fig. 600. —Meningo-myelocelo in vertical section.