569 FUNGUS OF THE SKULL. roo-ions. As ifc increases in size, it produces absorption of the skull covering it^- the bone becomes thin and expanded, and crackles like parchment on pressure, sometimes not being raised above its proper level, but usually being pushed up by the pressure of the growth beneath, which at last protrudes under the scalp, and may ulcerate through the skin. More usually, this i^erforation of the skull is gradual; but in some cases it would appear to have i.een rapid, the iirst sign of the disease being the presence of a tumour under rhe scalp. When the skull is perforated, the sharp edges of the circular opening can be distinctly felt, and the protruding tumour pulsates distinctly Pathology—T\\Q nature of these tumours is somewhat uncertain, as a sutti- ■ient number of cases has not yet been recorded wdth an accurate micro- scopical description of the growth ; but it is probable that in the majority of cases they are round- or Ppindle-celled sarcomata springing from the outer layers of the membrane, which forms the internal periosteum of the skull. Symptoms—^jm-^tom% of cerebral disturbance—diplopia, optic neuritis, loss of sight, deafness, or convulsions, with fixed pain in the head—usually precede for a considerable time the external appearance of the tumour. In some rare cases, no such symptoms have indicated the existence of intra- cranial disease ; and the first evidence of the disease has been the sudden protrusion of a pulsating tumour through the skull. If the tumour be com- pressed, egg-shell crackling of the expanded and thinned cranial bones will be felt, and, if attempts be made to push it back under the bones, giddiness, syncope, and convulsions are pr^<i^i«ed. As the disease progresses, death from paralysis and coma supervenes. Treatment—The result of the treatment of fungus of the dura mater is not very satisfactory ; yet, as the disease appears to be almost of necessity fatal if left to itself, something should be attempted if possible. The scalp covering it should be turned back by suitable incisions, and the tumour exposed. The aperture in the skull through which it protrudes may then, if necessary, be enlarged by the use of the trephine or Hey's saw, so as to lay bare the full extent of the tumoiir, which must next be carefully dissected away from the dura mater, or the affected part of the latter removed. In a case in which this operation was performed by Yolkmann, the patient died from the entrance of air during inspiration through an accidental wound of the longitudinal sinus. Fungus of the Skull may also occur. This term has been appKed to any soft fungating tumour springing primarily from the vault of the skull. The growth may spring from beneath the periosteum, when it is usually a small round-celled or a spindle-celled sarcoma, or from the diploe, Avhen it is most commonly myeloid. It gives rise to a smooth ovoid tumour on the head, which may or may not pulsate. If it springs from the diploe it is usually covered by a thin layer of bone, which gives the sensation of egg-shell crackling ; when it is subperiosteal, it not uncommonly contains a framework of irregular spicula of bone. As the disease progresses it usually perforates the skull, and comes into contact with the dura mater. It is then very difficult to determine whether it arose from that membrane, or merely implicated it by extension. The growth may, when small, be mistaken for an atheromatous cyst of the scalp, but it is readily distinguished by its being firmly fixed to the bone, while the cyst moves with the scalp. These tumours may become multiple, and after a time be followed by secondary visceral growths. I have