1284 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. protruding mass, preliminary dilatation of the cervical canal mny advantatre ously be eflected by the inaerLion of a sponge tent 12 hours previous to operation. This should remain in situ until the patient is placed on the operation table in the lithotomy position after having been anaesthetized A free incision through the capsule of the presenting portion of the growth will then enable the operator to shell it out by a gradual process of enucleation while firm suprapubic pressure is maintained by the hand of an assistant, in'order to facilitate the extraction. This operation, often an extremely difficult and tedious one to perform if the growth is of large size, necessitating extraction piecemeal, is to be undertaken only for the relief of the most urgent symptoms in exceptional cases, since all submucous growths have a natural tendency to become polypoid in character, and thereby more easily removable. The ordinary fibroid polypus is met with usually as an oval or pear-shaped growth attached to the posterior aspect or fundus of the uterine cavity by a more or less distinct pedicle. Such growths not uncommonly give rise to repeated and dangerous haemorrhage, often altogether disproportionate to their size. The most efficient mode of treatment consists in removal by means of a wire ecraseur, of which the loop is slipped over the polyp and then gradually tightened until division of the pedicle is effected. Unless the growth be protruding through the cervix, preliminary dilatation of this canal will be required in order to permit of the necessary manipulations. Two other varieties of uterine polypi are met with, viz., the glandular and the cellular polypus. These grow from the cervix or its immediate neighbour- hood, and their removal by simple torsion commonly offers no difficulty. It is an important rule, after all operations involving the cervical canal or the uterine cavity, to apply a strong solution of iodine freely to the interior of the womb, as the surest means of avoiding the risk of the subsequent development of any septic mischief. Malignant Disease of the Uterus may develop in any one of the three following forms, viz., as Columnar Carcinoma ; as Squamous Carcinoma; and much more rarely as Sarcoma. Columnar Carcinoma, the most common form of malignant growth in this situation, is occasionally met with as a primary affection of the lody of the uterus in women over fifty years of age. The disease, originating in the epithelium of the uterine glands, begins either as localized nodules in the substance of the uterine wall, or as a diffused fungating growth of the mucous membrane lining the cavity. The usual sym2Jtoms are pain, watery discharge, and haemorrhage, the latter sign being most marked in cases of fungating disease. The uterine cavity is somewhat enlarged, and the os appears patulous on inspection ; but the cervical tissues generally remain normal to sight and touch. The only radical treatment consists in vaginal extirpation of the entire uterus ; but, in cases of fungating cancer in feeble women, removal of the intra-uterine growths with a curette will tend to prolong life by checking the haemorrhage. The more usual seat of origin of columnar carcinoma is in the cervical tissues where it may develop at any age between twenty and fifty-five. The disease commonly commences as a nodular growth in the wall of the cervix, thence tending to spread upwards into the body of the uterus, as well as both outwards and downwards, thus speedily involving the tissue of the