PARTIAL PROLAPSE OF THE RECTUM. and hi-h fever. I have also in one case seen pelvic cellulitis set up. these various secondary affections are happily of rare occurrence. 987 But aU PROLAPSUS BECTI. 1 Partial Prolapse, or, as it has been called, " prolapsus ani," consists in a protrusion of the mucous membrane of the rectum through the anal orifice ; the submucous tissue being also, in the majority of instances, much thickened and elongated. It occurs almost exclusively in adults. Causes.-ln weakly persons generally there is a natural tendency to prolapse, as the result of an increase of the slight protrusion of the mucous membrane which usually takes place during defsecation, especially if there be irritation of the intestinal mucous membrane, as in dysentery, chronic diarrhoea, &c bo, again, the habitual constipation, often occurring in persons of a relaxed habit of body, apparently proceeding from want of power in the rectum to expel its contents, and requiring constant straining at stool, predisposes to this aliection. It is especially common in those who labour under stricture, stone, or any other disease about the urinary organs that requires a considerable effort to be made in expelling the contents of the bladder. In persons whose con- stitution has been relaxed by a long residence in India, this disease also frequently occurs. In other cases, and indeed most usually, the prolapse is associ- ated with piles, the weight and dragging of the hsemorrhoids drawing down the mucous membrane. This is especially apt to happen when there is a general hgemorrhoidal tendency about the anus. In fact, the causes of prolapse may be summed up thus: 1. Simple relaxation of tissue, such as is met with in weakly persons ; 2. Sympathetic irritation, as in chronic tenesmus, stone in the bladder, &c. ; 3. A hEemorrhoidal or polypoid condition of the mucous membrane of the rectum. Diagnosis.—Partial prolapse consists in the protrusion of a ring of mucous membrane of a red or purplish colour, and having a somewhat turgid look, rather lobulated in shape, and varying in size from half a walnut to a small orange (Fig. 830). The mucous membrane forming this ring will be found to be continuous with that investing the sphincter, and this constitutes the mark of distinction between prolapse, and a projecting intussusception or a polypoid growth. In prolapse there is, when the protrusion is down, a dragging and smarting sensation, often attended with a good deal of spasm about the neck of the bladder. In chronic cases, the anal aperture is per- manently relaxed. The folds of skin in its neighbourhood are relaxed and elongated, radiating from it as from a centre ; they are commonly bluish, soft, somewhat swollen, and pendulous, and often the seat of a good deal of irrita- tion. The protrusion at first occurs only after defsecation, and then readily goes back of itself, or is reduced by steady pressure upon it; after a time, Fig. 830.—Partial Prolapse of Rectum.