1234 DISEASES OF TUE TESTIS AND CORD. i cease after the excision of external piles ; and when it is connected wiJ varicocele proper measures must be adopted for the relief of that affection Ihc application of glycerine and belladonna or of a mixture of equal part^ ot chloral and camphor may give relief. In extreme cases, Astley Cooper recommended castration ; but such « proceeding is altogether unjustifiable in a disease that is either constitutional or dependent on local causes which are readily removable. ' ACtJTB INFLAMMATION OF THE TESTIS, Acute Inflanimation of the Testicle may be seated in the body of tL, organ, constituting Orchitis, or the epididymis alone may be affected, coq. stitnting Epididymitis. But although the inflammation may remain limited to one or other of these structures, in the large majority of cases both are eventually involved. Causes.—By far the most common cause of acute inflammation of the testicle is direct extension from the urethra. This variety, in which the epididymis is always primarily affected, is met with in gonorrhoea (p. 11G9), ; and as the result of irritation set up in the canal by the passage of in- struraents or the lodgment of calculi. To the same class probably belong the cases in which an attack of epididymitis occurs as a complication of chronic inflammation or hypertrophy of the prostate, especially in gouty subjects. } Inflammation, affecting chiefly the body, may occur as the result of an injury, [ such as a squeeze, blow, or severe strain. Orchitis may also occur as a I sequela of certain acute infective diseases ; of these mumps is by far the most important, but amongst others in which the same complication has been observed may be mentioned typhoid fever and smallpox. Apart from thft epididymitis which is met with in gouty subjects, probably as the result of urethral or prostatic inflammation, the existence of a true gouty orchitis in which the body of the testicle is affected seems undoubted. Orchitis has also been met with in association with other manifestations of acute rheumatism, but, as Jacobson remarks, before a diagnosis of " rheumatic orchitis " is made, not only must any urethral or other cause be excluded, but care must be taken to distinguish neuralgic pains in the epididymis or testis, to which gouty and rheumatic subjects are especially liable, from a supposed inflammation of the testicle. The Symptoms necessarily vary, not only according as the disease is of an acute or subacute character, but as it primarily affects the body of the testis or the epididymis. When it commences in the latter structure it is the globus minor that is commonly first affected ; it becomes swollen, hard, and tender. The inflammation may be confined throughout to this part; but most frequently it invades the whole of the organ, which becomes uniformly enlarged and somewhat ovoid; it is frequently accompanied by a good deal of effusion into the tunica vaginalis, constituting the Acute Hydrocele of Yelpeau. As the inflammation subsides, the different characters presented by the enlargement of the two constituents of the organ again become apparent. The .swelling is therefore due partly to general enlargement of the organ, but in some cases to inflammatory effusion into the tunica vaginalis. t 'I