924 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. The inguinal operation is easier to perform than the lumbar, especially when the patient is fat and the colon empty. The fact of the peritoneum being opened in inguinal colotomy does not seem a practical drawback, especially as when possible the oi)eration is performed in two stages, and it is said that the risk of peritonitis is less than when the peritoneum is accidentally wounded in the lumbar operation, as the uniform pressure of the anterior abdominal wall tends to prevent the entrance of fsecal matter into the cavity. The fact that the sigmoid flexure is so often the seat of disease in malignant stricture is a very strong argument in favour of Amussat's operation in such cases. The argument that the iliac incision allows exploration in doubtful cases is not a strong one, for under these circumstances, a median laparotomy will usually be performed, and the Surgeon will choose between making an artificial anus at the median incision, or closing this and opening the colon in the loin. As far as the future comfort of the patient is concerned it may be pointed out that prolapse is more common after the anterior operation, and it is very doubtful whether an artificial anus at the groin is as conveniently placed as one in the loin. When colotomy is performed for congenital absence of the rectum, Littre's operation is preferable, as being much less difficult and more certain to reach the gut, which is often, in infants, attached by a long meso- colon in the loin. The mortality due to the operation itself is certainly small, and, especially in the case of the lumbar operation, death is far more often the result of the unfavourable condition of the patient at the time when it is performed. lutestinal Anastomosis. — This operation, as already stated, consists in making a permanent communication between the intestine above and that below an obstruction, and is available as a substitute for the formation of an artificial anus in certain cases in which for some reason the cause of the ob- struction cannot be removed. For in- stance, in the treatment of malignant disease of the ceecum causing obstruc- tion, but too extensive for removal, iko- colosiomy has been performed and a communication established between the ileum and the ascending colon. The difficulties of the operation were so great that it had rarely been attempted until Senn, of Chicago, simplified the method by the use of decal- cified bone plates, by which complicated suturing is rendered unnecessary and the operation proportionately shortened. The plates are oval in shape and measure 2^- to 3 inches in length, 1 inch in width, and \ inch in thick- ness. They arc perforated with an oval opening around which are four drill holes in which silk threads are attached. The two pieces of bowel to be united are drawn through a suitable incision in the abdominal wall, and a segment of each is emptied of its contents and clamped by the fingers of an Pig. S18.—Intestinal Anastomosis with Senn's plates.