MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE KIDNEY. 993 bladder probably adds to this obstruction. Here then, although there may be no over-distension of the bladder, there is increased pressure in the ureters and kidneys, the force of secretion remaining unaltered while obstruction to the onward flow is offered by the narrowed orifices of the ureters. The degree of obstruction offered by a hypertrophied bladder varies much, as it is not un- common to find considerable thickening of the wall of the bladder without any marked signs of pressure in the ureters or kidneys. In cases of villous tumour of the bladder, one ureter and kidney only may be found to be affected, and it will then be seen that the growth implicates the orifice of that ureter. In others, both sides may be equally affected, and both orifices healthy, but it [will then be found that the growth has obstructed the neck of the bladder, I and that the signs of pressure in the ureters and kidneys are due to hyper- itrophy or over-distension of the bladiler. ! Diseased Conditions of the Ureters and Pelvis of the Kidney.— In such cases as we have been considering, three chief forms are met with : 1. The results of simple over-distension without acute inflammation; 2. Acute ! inflammation without signs of over-distension ; 3. A combination of the two. \ Simple chronic over-distension leads to dilatation of the ureter and pelvis of the kidney, with some thickening of their walls. The thickening is in part due to hypertrophy of the muscular coat of the ureter, and in part to fibroid 'overgrowth of the submucous tissue. The mucous membrane is of an opaque white colour, and free from pigmentation or ulceration. At the same time that the ureter becomes dilated, it is often increased somewhat in length, and is more or less tortuous, and not unfrequently irregular pouch-like dilatations occur. The dilatation is sometimes so great that the ureter resembles a piece I of small intestine. In inflammation of the ureter and of the pelvis of the kidney, we find the mucous membrane swollen and softened, of an intense red colour, and frequently showing slate-grey patches, resulting from previous attacks, as in the bladder. Ulceration is not uncommon, and often the ulcers are coated with a tenacious slough like a diphtheritic membrane. The urine contained in such a ureter and pelvis is often ammoniacal and abominably I fetid, and mixed with much pus and mucus. This is a consequence of exten- sion of decomposition from the urine in the bladder to that in the ureter; the severity and acuteness of the inflammation in the ureter being due to the irritation of this foul and decomposing urine. But it by no means follows, i because the urine in the bladder is decomposing, that the same condition 1 extends up the ureter. In the great majority of cases, the extension of decom- ;position to the pelvis occurs late in the disease, and acts as the final cause of death, by exciting acute inflammation in the kidney. This extension does not take place on account of any incompetence of the valves or regurgitation of urine, as, on testing the valves in such cases they will be found to be com- Ipetent. It probably creeps through the orifice of the ureter, by means of the i:enacious mucus secreted from the pelvis and ureter, irritated by over- distension. This adheres to the mucous surface and forms a stagnant layer in which decomposition may extend upwards. If after washing out a bladder iwith an antiseptic fluid, the first urine that enters from the ureters and flows ^ from the catheter be ammoniacal, the condition of the patient is always serious, las the decomposition has spread from the bladder to the pelvis of the kidney, A'here no local means can reach it. . Morbid Conditions of the Kidney.—The conditions found in the kidney VOL. II. 3 g