6s4 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE FACE AND MOUTH. wound IS large, it must not be completely covered by collodion lest diBcliarireg accumulate beneath the flap. In some parts in which the wound is moistened by the secretion of a neighbouring mucous membrane and cannot be kept dry, as in the eyelids, wet boric acid lint or boric acid ointment will be found the best application ; in other parts absorbent iodoform or sahoylic wool may be applied, a small piece of the "protective" oil-skin being placed next the wound to prevent it from sticking. The wool may be fixed in position by collodion. For a plastic procedure to succeed, it is necessary that no morbid process be going on in the seat of operation ; and not only that none be actually in progress, but that all have ceased for some considerable time. This is more particularly the case when the deformity has resulted from strumous or syphilitic ulceration. In such cases it is necessary to see that the constitution is sound, as well as that all local disease has been eradicated ; otherwise the irritation of the operation might set it up again, aud the new flap might be invaded and destroyed. From want of this precaution, I have more than once seen disappointment result. As a general rule, plastic operations prac- tised for the repair of mutilations from injury or of congenital deficiencies, are more successful than those that are performed after disease. No routine system of treatment should be adopted ; but a few days of rest, good diet, and a dose or two of aperient medicine, may be prescribed before the operation is proceeded Avith. In the after-treatment of the case, a nourishing but unstimuiating regimen should be observed. Faulty Cicatrices about the face and neck often occasion much deformity and annoyance, and may require a plastic operation for their removal. Those resulting from burns have already been considered, as also their treatment (Vol. I., p. 399 et seq.). Much may be done by proper surgical means to remove the disfigurement occasioned by the puckered or discoloured scars sometimes left by strumous abscesses, or the healing of wounds with dirt or grains of gunpowder imbedded in them. This is best done by dissecting the scars out, then loosening the edges of the cut by running the point of the scalpel under the skin, so that they may be brought together without puckering, and uniting them by means of horse-hair or catgut sutures passed with a fine sewing or Hagedorn's needle. Burow's Operation.—A plastic operation specially suited for the repair of deformity consequent on the removal of morbid growths from the cheeks .and other parts of the face, was introduced by Burow, a Polish Surgeon, and successfully performed by Stokes (Fig. 701). The steps are as foHows: The growth to be removed is included in three incisions, 1, 2, 3 ; and the integuments from which it springs are then carefully dissected off, leaving a raw triangle, the apex of which is on one, the base on the other side of the tumour. The incision 1, 4, 3, is then carried outwards to 5, 8, 7, BO that the whole distance from 1 to 7 is exactly three times that of the base of the raw surface ; a second triangle, 5, G, 7, is then made, having its base on the outer third of this horizontal incision. The two triangles must be of equal size, and the integuments are dissected ofl' 5, 6, 7. There are thus two raw surfaces to be covered in. This is done by dissecting up carefully the fl.aps 1, 5, 6, and 2, 3, 7. When this is done, the points 1 and 3, and 5 and 7, are'respectively drawn together, each by one suture, and the two raw triangular surfaces are thus covered in.