5°4 DISEASES OF liVRSiK. being the result of the movement of the part. I„ other cases they l)ave be..n supposed to arise from villous growths similar to those observed in tl,. s^^novia membranes of joints. That they may be formed from extravasai.,! blood also seems probable from the fact that Shattock has discovered cryst.K ot hjematoidm m some of the specimens in the museum of University Collc^. 1 lie tlmd IS sometniies found to contain cholesterine. 4. The wall of the bursa may gradually become thickened by a gi-owth <,| dense fibroid tissue, until the tumour becomes perfectly solid, or at mo^t contains but a small cavity with a little serous fluid in its centre. The secti- . ot a bursa thus solidified presents a laminated or foliated appearance. This condition is in many cases an effect of syjjhilis. 5. Occasionally in gout, burs^ may become the seat of a deposit of urate of soda. Ihis IS most commonly met with in the bursa over the olecranon. 6. In rare instances a gumma may take origin from the wall of a bursa and occupy Its interior. Softening occurs, and as the result of ulceration of tl overlying tissues sinuses are left leading into the broken down growth. 7. Tuberculous disease of a bursa may result in the distension of the cavitv by a mass of pulpy granulation-tissue, which eventuaUy undergoes caseation with the formation of a chronic abscess. The symptoms of the diseases of burste in general will be best studied by considering them as they occur in the bursa patellse, which, from its exposed situation, and its liability to injury, is more prone to become diseased than any other similar structure in the body. I shall therefore first descri! the symptoms and treatment of that bursa, and subsequently briefly allude i the similar morbid conditions in some of those situated in other parts. Diseases of the Bursa Patella.—The various affections to which the bursa is liable, may be divided into two classes : 1. Acute inflammatory affections ; and 2, Chronic enlargements, of a fluid or of a solid character. 1. Acute Inflammatory Affections.—This bursa is frequently the seat of Simple Inflammation. Undue pressure in kneeling upon a hard, irregular, and cold surface, such as stone, is apt to excite inflammation : hence its frequency in housemaids, whose occupation obliges them to kneel a great deal on floors and stone steps ; and hence, also, the common title of " housemaid's knee," given to this and to many other affections of this bursa. But this disease, although frequent among housemaids, is not limited to them ; for it occurs in females following other occupations, and in men as well as in women. In simple inflammation, however occasioned, the bnrsa^ becomes rather suddenly swollen, tense, red, and hot, with some fluctuation deeply under the integuments. The swelling, heat, fluctuation, and redness of a dusky colour all situated in front of the patella, indicate the nature of the affection. The Treatment consists in the application of glycerine and belladonna ointment and hot fomentations, and keeping the patient at rest; under this treatment, the disease will usually undergo resolution in a few days. If very acute, two or three leeches may be of service. It may, however, go on to suppuration, and in rare cases, to disease of the patella itself, or sloughing of the bursa. Suppuration of the Bursa occurs in a considerable proportion of cases of acute inflammation, and is a matter of great consequence ; because the accumulation of pus, being of large size, and tending to diffrise itself around the knee-joint, is liable to be mistaken for abscess in that articulation. Some-