TRACHEOTOMY: DIFFICULTIES AXD ACCIDENTS. 745 ac .leedin. if the knife be kept accurately to the middle -^^Z^':^^^^^^^ ''/ in which the cricoid cartilage is divided with one or two of the uppe g^s' the trachea, is occasionally performed intentionally but more of e, ^dentally in young children, the cricoid being mistaken lor a ring ot tlie :achea The accident, if such it can be called, is not productive of any injury ^'The'^'srion as to the safety of the administration of chloroform in these operations often occurs. I believe that it may always be given safely ...cept in cases of extreme syncopal asphyxia, where as sensibility no onger exists, it is unnecessary. Laryngeal inflammation and obstruction aie always associ'ated with so much spasm, more particular y m chi dren, ^^^^^^ -^^^^^ be found that the patient breathes more easily and fully whilst under the influence of chloroform than before its inhalation was commenced ; and, as Lhe anesthesia materially facilitates the operation, I invariably have recourse Difficulties and Accidents.—This operation is often attended with extreme difficulty, and not unfrequenfcly with much danger. „ , , The difficulties occurring in tracheotomy are chiefly reterable to lourneaas : Fig. 7(34.—Automatic Retractor. 1. DiflBculty in Exposing the Trachea ; 2. Profuse Haemorrhage ; 3. Difficulty in Opening the Ti'achea ; and 4. Trouble in Introducing the Tube. 1. The Difficulty in Exposing the Trachea increases greatly as the inci- sions approach the sternum, and is especially great in stout, short-necked persons. The want of an assistant to hold the wound open adds greatly to the difiiculty of the operation. This may, however, be overcome by the use of the ingenious " Automatic Retractor " devised by R. W. Parker (Fig. 764). The forcipressure forceps on the vessels will also help to hold the wound open. The accidents in this part of the operation arise very commonly from taking the guides incorrectly. In their anxiety to open the trachea above the thyroid body, young operators are apt to make the incision too high. The pomum Adami of a young child, especially when covered by much fat, is scarcely to be felt, and the hyoid bone is sometimes mistaken for it. Owing to this error I have more than once seen the thyroid cartilage partly divided, and in one case an opening made even in the thyro-hyuid space. The mistake is avoided by taking the sternal notch as the guide, and making the incision in a child reach to about a finger's breadth above it. Insufficiency of the incision is a frequent source of difficulty. Even in the smallest children it should never be less than one^inch in length. Deviation from the middle line is a common cause of accident, leading to wounds of the thyroid body or even of the carotid artery, or to great difficulty in finding the trachea. It may be the fault of the assis- tant, who should keep the chin exactly in the middle line as a guide to the Surgeon. In very young children an inexperienced assistant may even draw the trachea on one side with the blunt hook.