EXCISION OF TONGUE: AFTER-TREATMENT. 697 the bone, the affected portion may be removed with the tongne. This has been saccessfuliy done by Heath, Barker, and others. Hasniorrhage during Excision of the Tongue is the only serious danger of the operation, and so long as the mouth is thoroughly gagged even this need cause no anxiety. If ouly a part of the tongue is being removed, hgemorrhagc may be immediately arrested by drawing the tip well out of the mouth by the ligature through it and compressing the lingual artery against the jaw by the method already described. The pharynx must then be thoroughly cleaned with sponges on holders. When this is done the assistant relaxes his finger, and the bleeding point can usually be seized without difficulty with forci- pressure forceps. If the whole tongue have been removed, the stump must be hooked forward with the forefinger and seized in a pair of vulsellum forceps while the artery is compressed as before described. Torsion is the most satisfactory mode of arresting the bleeding. The twisted end of the vessel becomes buried in the tissues of the stump of the tongue and secondary haemorrhage rarely, if ever, occurs. If the attempts at torsion fail, a ligature may be applied and cut short. The most serious accident is when the gag slips while free haBmorrhage is going on. In a case of this kind I had to perform laryngotomy, as a coagulura formed in the pharynx before the vessel could be secured. The patient made a good recovery, dying two years after the operation from recurrence in the lung and in one of the toes. Oozing of blood may usually be arrested by ice, or if it be more than usually free the bleeding point may be touched with Paquelin's cautery or perchloride of iron, but this should be avoided if possible, as it interferes with the healing of the wound. If very free haemorrhage is expected it may be advisable in some cases to perform a preliminary tracheotomy and to introduce Trendelenburg's obturator or to plug the pharynx with a sponge. After-treatment.—As soon as all bleeding is arrested the stump of the tongue should be freely sponged with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to^j), care being taken that none of the solution runs down the throat. This whitens the surface but in no way interferes with healing. Iodoform in fine crystals should then be gently rubbed into the raw surface with the finger. Whitehead recommends the application of a " varnish " composed of the same constituents as Friar's Balsam, the spirit, however, being replaced by a concentrated solution of iodoform in ether and turpentine. The chief trouble in the subsequent treatment is to keep the mouth free from decomposing dis- charges. Various means have been tried for this—chlorinated gargles, Sanitas, terebene, Condy's fluid, &c., but nothing approaches iodoform in efficiency. It should be applied daily in the form of crystals (not precipitated), a small quantity being sprinkled over the raw surface by means of a camel's-hair pencil. Whitehead recommends the daily application of the varnish. The mouth may be washed at intervals after the first thirty-six hours with a weak solution of Sanitas. Ice may be sucked at intervals for the first few days, if it be found grateful to the patient. A tendency to dyspnoea is sometimes manifested after the operation, owing to the stump of the tongue falling backwards. This is remedied by opening the mouth and drawing the stump forwards. If It occurs frequently a thread must be passed through the stump and retained for a few days. Even if the whole tongue have been removed the patient will generally be able to swallow fairly well after the first twenty-four hours. A piece of india-rubber tube long enough to reach to the back of the mouth may