742 OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUHE. blood duri.io- operations about the liead and face. Tracheolomu n. , reqn.red: 1 In chron.c forms of laryngitis with obstruction n^^^^^^^^^^ laryngitis w.th a3dema, syphilitic and tuberculous ulceration, nec mis ofT cartilages, etc.; 2. In membranous laryngitis; 3. In tumours' of tl e arvn ■t. In some cases of bilateral paralysis of the abductors of the larynx . r?" the removal of foreign bodies from the trachea or bronchus; and'c A. prehm.nary step in certain operations about the mouth and throat,WndJ with much haemorrhage. I'^i'C-naed In children, as a general rule, laryngotomy should not be attempted m account of the small size of the crico-thyroid space. For this reason trlh? otomy IS almost invariably performed in children in all cases in which if t necessary to open the windpipe, whether for acute or chronic causes f obstruction. In cases of extreme urj^ency, however, arising from the presence of a foreign body, laryngotomy may be performed in children, the crifoiH cartilage being, if necessary, divided. Laryngotomy is an easy operation. The crico-thyroid membrane is almost subcutaneous, and may readily be reached by making a vertical incision in the mesial line, bet|i^een the sterno-hyoids, about an inch in length, and then a cross cut through the membrane with an ordinary scalpel. The air-passage having thus been opened,'a silver tube, curved on the flat (Fig. 762), may readily be introduced and retained by tapes round the neck. The ,^ only troublesome result that can occur in this 'iiiillOi ^P®^^'^^^^ wound of a small artery, the orico-thyroid branch of the superior thjroid, which crosses the membrane. I have never seen any trouble arise from this ; but, should it occur, the hemorrhage would readily be arrested by the application of pressure or ligature. In cases of extreme urgency, it is recom-1 mended by some Surgeons that, in order to save Fig. 762.-Laryngotomy Tabe. time, laiyngotomy be performed by a transverse ■ instead of by a longitudinal cut through the • superficial structures. In this opinion I do not agree ; little if any time is . saved, and peril may ensue by cutting across the branches of the anterior • jugular veins—thus leading, as I have seen, to profuse hfemorrhage. There is,« moreover, some risk of the formation of an aerial fistula. In all cases the longitudinal cut answers perfectly, and the crico-thyroid membrane can be opened in less than five seconds. Tracheotomy consists io making an opening into some part of the trachea, i by exposing the tube and cutting across two or three rings. There are three situations in which the trachea may be opened : above, behind, and below the isthmus of the thyroid body, which usually crosses it opposite its second and third rings. Above the isthmus, the trachea is comparatively superficial, being covered merely by the skin and superficial fascia, the deep fascia, and the sterno-hyoid muscles. Beneath the muscles will be found a strong fascia, which comes downA\ards in front of the larynx from the hyoid bone and divides above the thyroid body, inclosing its isthmus ^ between its two layers. This fascia is of some importance, as it is difficult s to push the isthmus downwards so as to expose the upper rings of the