7" GENU VALGUM, 541 ;niall triangular flap from the dorsum of the web, leaving its base at the level ,1' the natural cleft and its apex opposite the first interphalangeal joint. I'he web is then divided up to the normal level and the flap turned forwards >etween the fingers and adjusted with fine sutures. Skin grafting is some- : lines useful in these cases. I' I DEFORMITIES OF THE LOWER LIMB. I Ankylosis of the Hip has been already described (p. 439), and Con- genital Dislocation (Vol. I., p. 704). DEFORMITIES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. I Genu Valgum.—The deformity termed Genu Valgum, or Knock-knee, .usually affects both extremities, though it is generally more marked in one jthan in the other. In it the knee forms the apex of a triangle, the base of (which is represented by a line drawn from the trochanter to the outer ankle. 1 Knock-knee arises at two periods of life : first, during early childhood, when it is usually the result of rickets, and is most frequently conjoined with some ; curvature of the bones of the leg ; and secondly, about puberty, when it is due j to relaxation of the ligaments, and is frequently the result of carrying heavy I weights. At this period it is often conjoined with weak ankles and flat-foot. I In many cases the flat and everted foot is probably the primary affection. ] Bock states that out of 221 cases which he examined, 17 originated about the I period of the first dentition, and 200 between that age and the 15th or 18th i year. Some occupations are said to predispose to it, smiths being especially ' liable to the deformity. In whatever way knock-knee arises there is relaxation or stretching of the internal lateral ligament; the biceps, the external lateral ligament, and often the vastus externus are tense. The patella is thrown outwards and in some cases undergoes complete external dislocation (see Vol. I., p. 705). Mode of Production.—In the rickety forms of genu valgum the femur is \ chiefly, and often exclusively, at fault. In some cases the deformity is the ! result of an abnormal bending of the shaft of the femur, which presents at its j lower end a curvature, the convexity of which is directed inwards. As the result of this the internal condyle is necessarily displaced downwards and the ! leg is thrown outwards to a corresponding extent. Far more frequently, however, the fault lies in the inferior epiphysial line of the femur. On account of the oblique direction of this bone the internal condyle is longer I than the external so that the surfaces of the two condyles which rest on the 1 tibia may be in the same horizontal plane. In rickety genu valgum the apparently undue elongation of the internal condyle is not caused by an actual . enlargement of the condyle itself, but is due to an unequal growth at the I inner and outer parts of the epiphysial line, so that the internal condyle is I displaced downwards below a horizontal line drawn through the articular surface of the external condyle. This is probably due, as Humphry suggests, not so much to an excessive growth in the inner part of the epiphysial line as to a defective growth in the outer part. It is a necessary result of the oblique position of the femur that the weight of the body is transmitted more through the outer part of the lower extremity of the bone than through the inner part.