33° DISEASES OF JOINTS. most useful local measure. In a more advanced stage, counter-irritation by means of stimulating embrocations, together with douches, either of warm sea-water or of some of the sulphurous springs, such as those of Aix or Bareges, will prove most useful; and when all inflammation has been subdued, and weakness of the joint merely is left, the joint should be properly strapped with soap-plaster, spread upon leather, or supported by a well-fitting elastic cap or stocking. Finally, a course of efficient rubbing will often prove most beneficial. Amongst the internal remedies likely to be of most service, may be mentioned the iodide of potassium, either alone or in some bitter infusion. In hjjdrarthrosis the treatment must necessarily vary with the cause. If it is apparently simple, merely an exaggeration of ordinary chronic serous synovitis, rest combined with the employment of pressure, iodine and blisters must be employed as in chronic synovitis. The internal administration of iodide of potassium, or a mild mercurial course, will sometimes induce the absorption of the fluid. If these means fail, the fluid may be removed by means of the aspirator, after which pressure may be applied by means of the india-rubber bandage to prevent its reaccumulation. In extreme cases, Jobert, Velpeau, and Bonnet, recommended the injection of the joint with tincture of iodine, diluted with two or three parts of water. In performing this operation a small trochar is introduced into the joint, a moderate quantity of serous fluid is let out, and then a corresponding quantity of the iodine solution is thrown in ; and after being left for a few minutes, is allowed to escape. Inflammation of the joint, which is a necessary result of this procedure, comes on. This is treated by ordinary means, and, according to the statements of the French Surgeons, has in no case been followed by any serious consequences, but in several instances a complete cure without ankylosis has resulted. This mode of treatment does not appear to have met with much support in this country ; yet it certainly deserves a trial, though recourse should not be had to it lightly, as it is evident that the induced inflammation might exceed the expected limits. In one case of hydrarthrosis of the knee, in an old man, in which I employed it, about six ounces of thin synovia were drawn off, and a drachm of strong tincture of iodine was injected. Slight inflammation only ensued; and the disease, which was of two years' standing, was completely cured. The chief points that appear to require attention are that no inflammation be going on at the time, there being no tenderness or pain in moving the joint, the effusion being quite passive, and of a very chronic character ; and, above all, that no air be allowed to enter with the injected fluid. This treatment might be of service in the simple form of hydrarthrosis, but in the tuberculous form it can hardly be recommended, whilst if the case is one of Charcot's disease it could only do harm. If other methods of treatment fail, the joint may be drained with antiseptic precautions. The tube may be retained for ten days or a fortnight. After dropsy of the joint has been removed, the articulation is usually left weak for some length of time, in consequence of the stretching to which its hgaments have been subjected ; here cold douches, massage, and an elastic bandage will constitute the best mode of treatment. The treatment of tuberculous di'opsy will be considered later.