X044 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. Kiel, independently arrived at the same conclusion, and practically applied to suprapubic lithotomy by introducing an india-rubber bag into the rectuDal which was distended with water before commencing the operation. Although the rectal bag has been extensively employed, it must not be regarded as altogether a safe procedure, and more than one case of fatal rupture of the rectum has resulted from the distension. In children the rectal bag should never be employed ; in them the bladder lies high, and can easily be raised sufficiently by moderate distension. In adults, also, it should be dispeused with unless the bladder is much contracted, and raised with difficulty. The operation is thus performed : The patient should lie flat on a table. His legs should not hang over the end, as over-extension of the thighs tends to tilt the pelvis and arch the back, making the recti tense. The shoulders should be slightly raised by a pillow. The pubes is first shaved and the ^vhole region rendered aseptic by washing with soap and water and afterwards with carbolic lotion (1 in 20) or perchloride of mercury (1 in 500). If the rectal bag is likely to be required this should be well oiled and introduced by an assistant. Petersen's bag is pyriform, but MacCormac recommends a sausage-shaped bag as more closely resembling the natural form of the rectum, A soft catheter is then passed, to which an india-rubber tube is attached with a funnel at the end. Tlirough this a concentrated cold solution of boric acid, warmed to the proper temperature, is poured into tlie bladder, and withdrawn again by lowering the tube below the table. In this way the bladder must be repeatedly washed out. Finally, by raising the funnel from two to three feet above the body the bladder maybe sufficiently distended if the patient be fully under the anaesthetic. Forcibly injecting a fixed amount into the bladder is not free from danger, and has been known to cause rupture. The catheter is now withdrawn, and an india-rubber band or a piece of tape fastened round the penis to prevent the escape of the fluid. If it be preferred the bladder may be injected through a metal catheter, which may be plugged and left in as a guide to the bladder. If by this means the bladder is not sufficiently raised above the pubes, the rectal bag may be distended with water, great care being taken to avoid using much force lest the rectum be ruptured. The quantity injected must not exceed ten ounces in the adult. In children, as already stated, the bag should not be used. The Surgeon may stand on whichever side he prefers, but the left will be found most convenient in the later stages of the operation. No special instruments are required. The incision is made accurately in the middle Ime, and should be from two to four inches in length, according to circumstances, the longer incision being necessary when the patient is very fat. It should extend over the pubes at its lower end for about half an inch. The pyramidales, if present, are drawn apart, and if necessary, notched. The incision is carefully deepened exactly in the middle line, between the recti or through the muscular tissue, if the interspace is not recognised, until the transversal is fascia is reached. This is divided, and the wound held widely opened with retractors. A varying amount of fat Avhich lies m front of the bladder is thus exposed, and must be carefully dissected through. Some large veins are often present in this region ; these should be seized with forcipressure forceps before being divided, and subsequently ligatured. After carefully dividing the fat and pushing it somewhat upwards, so as possibly to raise the reflection of the peritoneum, the bladder comes into view. If an instrument have been re-