70 DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. a walnut, but sometimes much larger. I have removed from the nates and the back some quite as large as an orange. They occur less frequently upon the head and face than the capillary form of the disease ; most of the instances that I have seen have been in the lower part of the body, about the nates, back, lower extremities, and organs of generation. When a venous nrevus is purely subcutaneous, it forms a soft, doughy tumour, often clearly defined in outline. Its most characteristic feature is that it can be diminished by pressure, on the removal of which it slowly fills out again to as large a size as before; it also becomes distended when the child screams or struggles. It is usually oval, smooth, and uniform in outline. Occasionally the surrounding veins are bluish and enlarged. In rare instances a na3vus may be deeply situated, and thus give rise to a tumour, the nature of which may be very obscure. The difficulty in diagnosis is obviously greater if the tumour is noticed for the first time in adult life. In University College Museum a cavernous neevus is preserved which was removed by Christopher Heath from the temporal fossa of a man aged forty- five. The tumour had been noticed for fifteen years. It had recently taken on rapid growth, and before removal was thought to be sarcomatous. These deeply-seated nasvi may sometimes invade, or apparently originate in, the substance of a muscle. Cysts are sometimes found in n»vi containing a dark fluid. They result from obliteration of the communication between some of the spaces of the naevus and the vessels which carry off the blood. The tumours once sup- posed to be consohdated nsevi, with cysts scattered through them containing clear fluid, are now regarded as of lymphatic origin. Prognosis.—The natural history of nsevi is somewhat uncertain. They are so commonly removed by operation, that we have yet to ascertain what becomes of them when left to themselves. I have, however, seen several cases in which from various circumstances no operation had been performed, and I have been struck by the tendency that there is in the cutaneous nsevus to disappear. If left untouched, or subjected to continuous pressure, islands or patches of white skin will gradually appear on the reddened surface. These will slowly increase and coalesce, and then the nasvus, becoming gradually less vascular, may in time disappear. Subcutaneous venous ngevi will sometimes gradually shrink, but the active erectile nsevus is always progressive. There is usually a fear expressed of n^vi, if left without surgical interfer- ence, leading to dangerous or even fatal haemorrhage. This I have never seen ; indeed, if the na2vus ulcerates its tissue hardens, and the vessels become blocked up by coagulum and hence less disposed to bleed. Treatment.—In the treatment of nasvus, the first point to be determined is whether the case should be left to nature, or whether operative measures should be had recourse to. In deciding this we must be guided by the size, situation, and character of the morbid growth. If it be small, cutaneous, and superficial, so situated that it occasions little or no disfigurement, and if it show no tendency to increase, it may be left without interference ; Avhen. as just stated, it may eventually shrivel and disappear, or become converted into a kind of mole. In some cases this process may be hastened by the application of tincture of iodine or liquor plumbi. In other cases, again, the nsevus, though cutaneous and superficial, is so widely difPused over the surface, that no attempt at its removal or destruction-can be entertained with prudence.