COMPLICATIONS OF GONORRHOEA. 1167 and frequent dysnria, strangury, and general f^^^-^^^/^f j:^^;^?;. ^ Lomes loaded with muco-pus, and may be fetid and alkaline Ihe condition fpe'lous There is danger to life if the constitution be broken and h i. is 1ms dancer of prolonged or possibly intractable subacute cystitis. Indeed f bXvrthat mfny of the cases of chronic cystitis, with muco-pus m the r?ne Ind perhaps atony of the bladder occurring in 1-aged men, may be traced back to the influence of a gonorrhoea contracted in early hfe. ihe of this condition consists in the enrployment of ^onna j X!^^ suppositories ; the frequent use of warm hip-baths ; the application of fomen tations to the perinseum and hot poultices to the pubic region. The free administration of opium is often of great use, and an occasional dose of calomel should be given to relieve the bowels. As the cystitis subsides, the urethral discharge reappears. Pyelitis and Nephritis are very rare complications of gonorrhoea. Murchison has recorded two cases in which death rapidly followed extension to the kidney, with coma and delirium. In a case lately m University Colleo-e Hospital, a slight urethral discharge was followed by pam m the course of the ureter, and the symptoms of pyelitis. The disease assumed a chrome form the pus in the urine being very abundant. Gonorrhoeal rheumatism ot a severe form set in at the same time. After about two years the patient par- tially regained health, the amount of pus becoming very small. In another case, a large renal abscess formed some time after an attack of gonorrhoea, to which it seemed to be directly attributable. The abscess was aspirated twice, and the patient recovered, but at his death some years after, the kidney was found to be shrivelled to a small mass of fibrous tissue. Retention of Urine from Gonorrhoea may set in at any period of the acute stage. The obstruction is usually dependent on congestion and inflam- mation of the mucous membrane of the urethra. Leeches to the perinseum, the warm hip-bath, and opiate suppositories, will probably afi'ord relief. It is always desirable to avoid using the catheter, as it is apt to lacerate the inflamed mucous membrane,and thus to occasion troublesome bleeding; audit will always produce much pain, and increased irritation of the canal. Should, however, the retention not give way to the means above indicated, it will be necessary very carefully to introduce a full-sized instrument, which will enter the bladder as easily as a smaller one and with less risk of injury to the tender walls of the canal. If an old stricture complicates the acute gonorrhoea the difiiculty in passing a catheter may be very great. When the catheter has been introduced, it is often somewhat difiicult to determine whether it should be left in or taken out. If it be left in, inflammation is increased ; if it be taken out, the Surgeon may not be able easily to introduce it again. If, therefore, it have been intro- duced without much difficulty, it is better to withdraw it after the bladder has been emptied ; but if, on the other hand, the catheter have been passed with great difficulty, and be firmly grasped by spasm, it should be left in. It must be remembered that the retention may be due to more serious con- ditions : to prostatitis, to abscess in the prostate or the perinasum, or to in- flammatory exudation in the tissues about the neck of the bladder. In these circumstances, active measures will be required, with the use of the catheter twice in the twenty-four hours, and probably free incisions into the perinseum, if there be pus 6r urine extravasated into that region. Hsemorrhage from the Urethra may occur either as the result ofchordee.