244 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. second half, out of 35 cases there were B deaths and no auiputatioiis. Barwell has also contrasted the results with reference to the various materials used as ligatures. He finds that in 14 cases silk was used ; of these 3 died, 1 of rupture of an aneurism at the site of ligature, 1 of secondary haemorrhage, and 1 of pyemia, and in 1 case the aneurism relapsed. In 27 cases catgut was used ; of these G died and 3 relapsed. Of the deaths, 1 arose from causes unconnected with the operation, 2 were due to secondary liaemorrhage, and 2 occurred after retying for relapse or aucurism at the site of ligature. In 4 cases the ox-aorta ligature was used successfully. The catgut used some years ago was somewhat uncertain in its quality, and in one of the cases in which secondary haemorrhage occurred, it was applied without antiseptic precautions, and consequently differed but little from the old silk ligature in its properties. It remains to be determined what form of ligature gives the best results—whether catgut prepared according to the later methods (see Vol. I., p. 440), carbolized silk, or the ox-aorta, applied in such a way as not to divide the inner and middle coats. There is little doubt that the low death-rate of the later period is due to improvement in the ligature and in the after-treatment of the wound, and there is every reason to hope that it will at least be maintained, and probably further reduced. Accidents.—Wound of the Femoral Vein is without doubt the most serious accident that can happen in the operation for ligature of the super- ficial femoral artery,' and is one of which there is especial risk when it is undertaken for aneurism, as the sheath of the vessels is often thickened and indurated by chronic inflammation extending upwards from the sac. The accident is best avoided by thoroughly exposing the external coat of the artery before attempting to use the needle, which, as already recommended, should be passed unarmed and without the employment of force. There are but few cases on record in which the patient has survived this accident, death usually resulting from septic phlebitis or from gangrene. The cause of the fatal result was first pointed out by Hadwen. He showed that in wound of the vein the vessel is transfixed by the needle, so that when thu thread is tied a segment of the wall is included with the artery in the noose, a portion of the ligature thus lying actually in the lumen of the vein. Upon the foreign body the blood necessarily coagulates, and a clot forms, obliterating the vein above and below the injured spot. In former times, when silk ligatures were used, the ends of which hung out of the wound, the thread always became more or less impregnated with decomposing matter, and thus septic changes were set up in the clot, leading to spreading phlebitis, disintegration of the clot and fatal septic embolism. Even if the patient escapes" this danger, the simultaneous obliteration of the artery and vein almost invariably so far impedes the circulation as to cause gangrene. Guided by this view, the treatment becomes obvious. It consists m removing the lio-ature at once, and thus converting the wound into a simple puncture of the vessel which readily heals. The Surgeon should, therefore, as soon as the accident is perceived, withdraw the ligature, and, opening the sheath about half-an-inch higher up, re-apply it to the artery there. The hemorrhage from the punctured vein readily ceases on the apphcation of a compress. The occurrence of Secondary Haemorrhage after ligature of the superficial femoral is a troublesome accident, and one in which the Surgeon, to use Eer-usson's expression, "will most assuredly find himself in an eventlul 1