281 CARIES. its cause into simple, syphilitic and tuberculous. All forms are predisposed to by those constitutional conditions which predispose to inflammation generally. The disease is common in strumous subjects, in whom, as before stated (see Scrofula, Vol. I., p. 1095), inflammation is prone to be set up by slight causes and to persist. Caries is divided also into superficial, central, or articular, according to the part of the bone which it affects. In all forms of caries in which suppuration takes place as soon as the resulting abscess is opened, decomposition of the discharges ensues, unless precautions,be taken to prevent it, and the irritation caused by the contact of the septic matter with the diseased surface tends to perpetuate the chronic in- flammation and cause extension of the destruction of the bone. In all cases of caries the neighbouring periosteum is swollen and thickened and new bone is formed beneath it. In central caries the compact tissue is usually somewhat rarefied. Situation of Caries.—Billroth and Menzel of Vienna have examined the question of the relative frequency of caries in different bones. In 1,996 cases the numbers were : skull, 161 ; facial bones, 44 ; vertebral column, 702 ; sternum, clavicle, and ribs, 184 ; bones of jshoulder-joint, 28 ; elbow-joint, 93 • wrist and hand, 41; pelvis, 80 ; hip-joint, 189 ; knee-joint, 238 ; ankle-joint and foot, 150 \ scapula, 4 ; humerus (shaft), 13 ; radius, 2 ; ulna, 4 ; femur (shaft), 31 ; tibia, 80 ; fibula, 2. A classification in regions gives : head and spine, 1091 ; upper limbs, 185; lower limbs, 720. Hence it appears that while any bone may be affected with caries, it is most frequently met with in short and cancellous bones. ]. Simple Caries occurs under various conditions. When a joint has been wounded, and suppuration with destruction of the cartilages has taken place, the progressive ulceration that may occur in the exposed cancellous tissue is dommonly spoken of as caries. In this case it is due partly to the irritation of the septic discharges, but chiefly to the friction of the diseased surfaces agamst each other. It seems probable, also, that in some cases of caries of the spine, the disease may originate in an injury of the soft growing tissue between the epiphyses and the body as the result of some concussion or forcible flexion. Owing to some constitutional weakness on the part of the patient, and still more to the slight mechanical irritation which must occur whenever the part is moved or the weight of the body thrown upon it, chronic rarefying osteitis may be set up, with progressive destruction of the bone. That the persistence of the process is in many cases due solely to the friction of the diseased surfaces upon each other is shown by the readiness with which cure takes place when this is prevented and perfect rest is obtained. Thus in traumatic caries of a joint, if the limb be fixed so that all movement is im- possible, or if the articular surfaces become separated by dislocation, the carious bone usually heals rapidly. In these cases of simple caries if a section of the bone be made perpendicularly to the carious surface the disease will be found not to extend to any o-reat depth. In the layer that is aff"ected the bony cancelli are thinned and in\art destroyed near the surface, so that in a macerated specimen the tissue looks more spongy than natural. In the spaces the normal medullary fat is replaced by granulation tissue. ^ ^ictueu In the Treatment of simple caries it is most important that the part should