I042 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. Examination of the Bladder by Manipulation can be caiiicd o easily iuchildreu. The patient is fully anaesthetized ; the Surgeon then passes one finger into the rectum and presses firmly with the other hand above the pubes. If a stone be present it can be clearly felt by the finger in the rectum and its size ascertained. In adults this mode of examination is of course impossible if there be much abdominal fat or any enlargement of the prostate and even in the absence of these conditions it is very uncertain, as the fiii</er does not reach far enough up to grasp the stone. Pathological Changes induced by Calculus.—After a stone has existed for some time in the bladder, it induces serious pathological changes in the whole of the urinary apparatus. The prosfate not unfrequently becomes some- what enlarged and irritable, in consequence of which a kind of pouch is formed behind it, in which the calculus is apt to lodge. The most impoi-tant changes, however, take place in the bladder and kidneys. The bladder becomes extremely sensitive, especially about its neck, and is consequently unable to contain as much urine as usual; hence it becomes contracted. In some rare instances, however, as will be more especially noticed when we come to speak of lithotrity, it falls into an atonic condition, and then is apt to become much dilated. The mucous membrane is commonly a good deal inflamed and irritated by the presence of the calculus ; and the muscular coat becomes thickened and hypertrophied, so as to give it a very fasciculated appearance. Sacculi occasionally form, containing sabulous matter and fetid pus or urine, and in some cases lodging a concretion, which then constitutes an encysted calculus lying altogether outside the cavity of the bladder, with which it merely communicates by a very narrow aperture, as in Figs. 846 and 847, representing a case that was under my care, and which is fully described in the Journals for March, 1853. The Jckhie//s are often congested, frequently in a state of chronic or subacute interstitial inflammation, and ultimately become the seat of such structural changes as are incompatible with life. When death occurs as the consequence of stone, the patient usually sinks, worn out by protracted suffering and kidney disease. LITHOTOMY. It is not my intention to enter into the general history of lithotomy, an operation that has been practised from the earliest ages ; nor to give a sketch of the gradual modifications that have at various times been introduced, from the rude attempts of the Greek and Roman Surgeons to the barbarous and unscientific procedures adopted by the itinerant operators after the revival of letters. For all this, I would refer the reader to the classical works of Deschamps and of John Bell. The various methods by which a stone has been removed from the male bladder by a cutting operation may be arranged broadly under the followmg four heads: 1. The Suprapubic or High Operation, in which the stone is removed from an incision into the bladder above the symphysis pubis. 2. The Lateral Operation, in which the bladder is reached through an incision in the left side of the perinseum. 3. The Median Operation, in which the stone is removed through an incision in the middle line of theperinasum ; and 4. Various extensions and combinations of the last two methods, such as tlie Bilateral, Medio-bilateral, Medio-lateral, and the Recto-vesical.