392 DISEASES OF THE ELHOW-JOINT. pletely protected by the bmchialis anticus that it could not easily be wounded but if there is much pulpy swelling of the synovial membrane it will some- times be found useful to press a copper spatula between the humerus and tlic bones of the forearm to facilitate the exposure of their ends for sawing. TIk' ulnar nerve is in danger while the inner side of the ulna is being cleaned foi- the saw, and sometimes during the sawing of the bone, and it must therefoiv be guarded or drawn on one side by a bent copper spatula or a blunt hook. Should any sinuses exist, especially towards the inner side of the arm, tbe\ had better be left untouched. I have more than once known the ulnar 'ner\> cut across by the Surgeon in laying open what appeared to be very superficiiil sinuses in this situation. In this operation it is of great consequence, so far as the after-utility of tho arm is concerned, not to remove more of the bones lengthwise than is absf.- lutely necessary. The shaft of the humerus, for instance, should never encroached upon ; it will be quite sufficient to limit the excision to tlio articular surface. Should any carious portions of bone extend beyond this, 1 think it is better to scoop them out with the gouge than to remove them in any other way. The excision of the ulna and radius should not be carried so low as to divide the insertions of the brachialis anticus and biceps. After opening the articulation, a practical question of considerable importance often arises ; viz., to what extent the resection of the articular ends should be carried. If they be all diseased, there can of course be no doubt as to the propriety of removing the ends of the three bones. So, also, if the humerus and ulna be diseased, the head of the radius should be cut oif on a level with the section of the ulna. But the important point is, whether, in the event of only one bone being implicated, by disease or injury, the Surgeon should limit himself to the excision of this alone, or should remove the other two. Formerly, in accordance with the principle of conservative surgery, that diseased or injured parts alone should be sacrificed, I have advocated leaving the healthy articular ends, and only removing that which was diseased ; but increasing experience' has convinced me that the practice is erroneous, and that, if the joint be only partially excised, ankylosis, or return of the disease in the bones, is very apt to ensue. I would therefore advise that in all cases, the whole of the articu- lation be removed, as well as in those cases in which operation is required in consequence of comminuted and compound fracture of only one of the bones ; as, for instance, when the lower epiphysis of the humerus, or the upper end of the ulna only, is the seat of such injury. In excision of the elbow for osseous ankylosis, a piece of the united bones about an inch in length should be sawn out; the cuts should be made at right angles to the shafts of the bones, and the piece removed must include equal portions of humerus and of ulna. The operation by two lateral incisions has been recommended by Hueter and others. The advantages claimed for this method are that it saves to some extent the injury to the triceps involved in the other methods, that it provides better drainage, and that the scars are left at the lateral aspects of the new joint instead of behind. The inner incision should be the shorter, and should be made first, the ulnar nerve being turned out of its groove and the internal lateral ligament of the joint divided. The outer incision should be of con- siderable length, and should pass close to the radial border of the olecranon. Hueter recommends that the external lateral ligament should be divided and