264 INFLAMMATION OF HONE AND ITS EFFECTS. changes, but the periosteum is always swollen and frequently separated fi'oii, the bone by the formation of pus beneath it. Acute diffuse osteomyelitis always causes more or less extensive necrosis ot the compact tissue, partly by depriving it of its vascular supply when suppuration takes place, and partly from extension of the diffuse inflammation into the T-Iaversian canals. The veins of the affected bone become inflamed and filled with coagulum. The thrombi being invaded by the infective material, soften and disintegrate, and the fragments bearing with them the infective matter are carried into the circulation, and thus embolic pyaemia is a very common result. Simple Chronic Osteomyelitis occurs only as a part of more general inflammatory affections of bone. Thus, in an osteoplastic osteitis, we often find the medullary canal encroached on by the newly-formed osseous tissue, until in some cases ifc is completely filled by spongy bone. In necrosis of the compact tissue the neighbouring medulla becomes chronically inflamed, and the products of the process undergo ossification. Tuberculous Osteomyelitis results from the deposit of tubercle in the medulla, and must be recognised as a distinct variety of tuberculosis of bones. The condition is seen most frequently in the metacarpal bones and phalanges, and it is here spoken of clinically as strumous dactylitis. It usually results in the formation of a more or less diffuse caseous mass in the interior of the bone. Sooner or later the compact bone is slowly perforated by a process of rarefactive osteitis, and thus a chronic abscess forms beneath the periosteum, and gradu- ally invades the superficial tissues. The shaft is often thickened by a deposit of new bone beneath the periosteum. Necrosis often occurs, and the seques- trum may present any of the characters met with in tuberculous disease of cancellous bone. In addition to those cases in which a primary tuberculous osteomyelitis occurs, it occasionally happens that the medulla is invaded secondarily from a primary focus of disease in the extremity of the bone. Inflammatory Affections of the Cancellous Tissue.—The cancelli of the spongy tissue of bone are composed of osseous tissue differing in no respect save in its arrangement from the compact substance. The spaces are filled with a marrow in most parts identical with that of the medullary canal, but containing less fat. In the vertebrse, ribs, and diploe of the skull, the marrow is red, and contains numerous cells like white corpuscles and others apparently intermediate between white and red. There is no reason to believe that any of the pathological changes observed in cancellous bone begin in the osseous tissue, the starting-point of every process, as far as can be ascertained, being the medulla filling the cancellous spaces. The following are the chief inflammatory processes met with in the cancellous tissue :—1. Acute diffuse osteitis ; 2. Rarefactive osteitis ; 3, Osteoplastic osteitis. Chronic inflamma- tion of cancellous bone is in the large majority of cases tuberculous. Acute Diffuse Inflammation of the Cancellous Tissue is the same process occurring in the medulla of the cancellous tissue as has already been described under the name of acute diffuse osteomyelitis when attacking the marrow of a long bone, and arises under similar conditions, either as the result of the contact of putrid discharges in an open wound, implicating the spongy tissue of a bone, or as an infective process commencing without direct communication with the external air. In many cases it is merely an extension to the ends of the bone from the medullary canal. In it the cancellous spaces