irgS DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. treatment ; the perineal section being too severe and dangerous, whilst simnl. ddatation is too feeble a means of treatment P'^ Stricture of the Meatus is usually the conseciuence of destraction of issue by a chancre It is apt to be extremely tight, and has a great^ d to elapse^ A tight stricture is not uncommonly met with also within an nl of goL" W intra-urethral chancre, and less commlnlj These strictures may be treated hj gradual. clUatailon by means of short nail-headed styles o graduated sizes, but this is usually tedious and inefficien Dm..on hj C.via e's instrument, introduced shut, and cutting as it is w th- drawn (Fig 92r, , or in the absence of this, by a common" probe-pornted bistoury will be found the only really advantageous treatment. The incision should be made downwards. It is practically free from danger, as rigors and Fig. 925.—Civialc's Urethrotome for Stricture of the Orifice, modified. other constitutional disturbance scarcely ever follow operations on the anterior extremity of the urethra. Impermeable Stricture.—In order to perform the perineal section, the stricture must be pervious to a grooved staff, however small this may be ; and this, it might be supposed, would limit materially the cases in which the operation can be performed. But complete obliteration of the urethra cannot take place except as the result of sloughing, usually from injury; indeed "impermeable" strictures, though frequently spoken of, are very rarely met with. Syme, indeed, denied their existence, and stated that, if urine can escape through a stricture, a bougie can be introduced. A Surgeon may often be foiled in his first attempts to pass an instrument through a very tight stricture. But I believe that, with patience, by attention to constitutional treatment, so as to lessen urethral irritation, and especially by the administra- tion of an angesthetic, he will usually at last succeed in making an instrument of some kind pass through the very worst strictures. In the first case in which I performed the perinseal section, almost all the urine had for twelve years been discharged through fistulse in the periuEBum and scrotum ; and the principal portion escaped through a large hole on the inside of the left thigh, only a few drops occasionally passing out by the lips of the urethra. No instrument had been passed for four years, though repeated attempts had been made by different Surgeons. Failing to introduce a catheter into the bladder, I kept the patient in tlie Hospital for two or three weeks, attending carefully to his constitutional condition, but without making any further effort. He was then placed under an ana3sthetic, when I succeeded in passing No. 1. The urethra was then dilated up to No. 5, beyond which no instru- ment could be passed, when the perinatal section was performed. The patient made an excellent recovery, the fistulse closing, and the urine being discharged by the natural channel. In another case, persevering attempts had