TREATMENT OF CHRONIC ABSCESS OF BONE. 273 The limb having been made bloodless by Esmarch's method, the bone is exposed by a free incision over the tender area. The edges of the incision being held apart with blunt hooks, the periosteum is divided and reflected with a Langenbeck's (Fig. 510) or T-shaped elevator. A bone trephine is then applied, or the dense bone may be carefully cut away with a gouge (Fig. 511) and mallet. The diseased cavity will very commonly at once be opened in this way. It may contain curdy pus, and the sclerosed bone surrounding it may be covered with a thin layer of soft granulation tissue ; or a sequestrum may be found surrounded by a layer of caseous tuberculous tissue. In either case the cavity must be thoroughly scraped out with a Volkmann's sharp spoon, and any over- hanging bone should be removed with the gouge, so that, if possible, the opening may in every direction be as extensive as the cavity itself. If, how- ever, no cavity be found the Surgeon must not be disappointed, but should pierce the neighbouring osseous tissue in different directions by means Pig. 510.—LaBgeuteck's Periosteal Elevator Fig. 511.—Gouge. of a gouge, when perhaps the abscess will be opened ; should it not be so, the patient will still in all probability be materially benefited by the removal of the circle of bone, and the consequent relief to the compression of the osseous tissue. The operation should, if possible, be performed with antiseptic precautions. The cavity should be thoroughly cleaned with a small piece of sponge soaked in some antiseptic solution (as chloride of zinc, gr. xx. to ^j.), in order to remove any fragments of necrosed bone or saw-dust. It may then be dressed with any efficient antiseptic dressing, which should be firmly applied before the tourniquet is removed, the cavity in the bone being plugged with strips of gauze. At the subsequent dressings careful plugging will be required to prevent the superficial wound from closing before the deeper parts have healed. In some cases, when the cavity is small, plugging is unnecessary, and a dry wool dressing may be left unchanged, if all goes on well, for a week or even a month if no discharge soaks through. If decomposition can be prevented the cavity often becomes filled with blood-clot into which the granulation tissue sprouts from the suiTounding bone, until in two or three weeks it may be com- pletely closed. If the cavity becomes filled with septic discharges the process of healing is much delayed. Subsequently the granulation tissue develops into bone and the limb recovers its former strength and utility. VOL. II. T