LIGATURE OF RADIAL AND ULNAR ARTERIES. In the iipp&r part of the arm the operation for ligature of the brachial is practically identical with that for the terminal part of the axillary, the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis being taken as the directing line and the fir&t rallying-point. At the lend of the elbow the brachial artery may be reached by making an incision about two inches in length downwards and outwards parallel to and immediately above the median basilic vein when that vessel can be seen ; when it can not, the incision must be at an angle of 45° with the line of the limb, commencing about one inch external to and half an inch above the tip of the inner condyle of the humerus, and terminating at the outer side of the tendon of the biceps. It must not be carried further outwards or the median cephalic vein will be divided. If the median basilic vein is seen, it must be drawn downwards to avoid wounding the ulnar veins which enter it below. As soon as the integumental structures are divided, with the branches of the internal cutaneous nerve, the bicipital fascia comes into view. This must be carefully divided ; the artery will be found beneath, having the biceps tendon to its outer side, the median nerve to its inner side, and a vena comes on each side. The needle must be passed from the nerve. It sometimes happens that the operator misses the artery and comes down upon the brachialis anticus which lies beneath it. This muscle is readily recognized by its surface being composed at this part of alternate strips of tendon and muscular fibres. If circumstances require the operation to be performed a little higher up, the edge of the biceps must be taken as the guide, as in the middle of the forearm. Collateral circulation.—When the brachial is ligatured alove the inferior profimda the most important anastomosis is that between the superior profunda and the radial recurrent, anastomotica magna, and interosseous recurrent. If beloiu the inferiorprofimda, there is in addition the anastomosis of this branch with the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent and with the anastomotic. After ligature at the bend of the elbow the circulation is main- tained by the anastomosis of the superior profunda, inferior profunda and anastomotic with all the recurrent branches from the forearm. Ligature of the Radial and Ulnar Arteries, ligatured at any part of their course, but the operation is never performed above the middle third of the arm except for direct wounds. The Ulnar Artery above the Wrist may be readily ligatured by making an incision (Fig. 493) about two inches in length along the outer side of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is the direct- ing line to the vessel. The incision should terminate about half an inch above the pisiform bone. If the edge of tbe tendon cannot be clearly felt, the incision must be made in the line of the artery. This is found by drawing a straight line from the tip of the inner condyle of the humerus to the radial edge oi tne pisitorm bone. The first railying-point is the edge of the tendon of the flexor ulnaris. As soon as this is clearly exposed it must be drawn inwards with a blunt hook, the wrist being slightly flexed to relax the muscle. A distinct fascia, usually marked by transverse fibres, then comes into view ; this must be carefully —These arteries may be Pig. 492.—Diagram of tlie Ulnar Artery at tlie Wrist. flx.snh. flexor sublimis digi- torum; fi.c.ul. flexor carpi ulnaris ; r.v. veins ; a. artery.