DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. 438 use after excision of the hip ; if this has been done by a posterior incision the piece of the spUnt opposite the wound must be cut out. In adults a Thomas's splint, or during the early stages a bracketed long splint, may be used. Often, however, it is convenient to dispense with the use of a splint altogether, applying a weight extension and preventing rotation by two soft iron cross-bars fixed to the leg with a plaster of Paris bandage. The Results of excision of the hip have already been partly discussed (see p. 4^4, et seq.). 1. The 3IortaUty due to the operation necessarily varies according as it is undertaken as an operation of choice in the earlier stages or as a last resource in advanced cases. Leisrink of Hamburg published in the ArcMv fur Uinische Chirurgie (1870) the statistics of 176 cases. In 24 of these, or 13-6 per cent., death occurred from intercurrent diseases—mostly pyaemia (11) and septiceemia (2). Fourteen patients, or 8 per cent., died within a fortnight fi'om exhaustion ; 14 others died between this time and the end of the first month—most from exhaustion, one from amyloid disease, and two from phthisis. From the beginning of the second month to the end of the year after the operation there were 27 deaths, or 15*3 per cent. ; while nine died in the course of two or more years, of phthisis and other diseases. Leisrink states that in the 176 cases there were altogether 98 deaths. Of this appa- rently high mortality, however, only about one half, or 26 per cent, of the whole cases, could be ascribed to the operation itself. The other half of the deaths were produced by extension of the disease, by diarrhoea, or by phthisis or other disease of internal organs—probably in many instances existing at the time when the operation was performed. The mortality following the operation appears to have been much lower in England and America than in France and Germany. In 1881 Croft published the statistics of 45 cases operated on by himself ; of these 19 recovered, 18 died, and 8 were still under treatment at the time of the report. Of the 40 per cent, of deaths, 15'6 died directly from the operation, 13*4 fi'om some form of tuberculous disease, 6-6 from albumenoid disease, and 4'4 from causes unconnected with the joint affection. Of 203 cases of excision collected by the Committee of the Clinical Society, 29, or 13-7 per cent, died directly from the operation. Wright of Manchester, has recorded 100 cases performed by himself up to 1887, in 30 of which the operation was done nine months or less after the onset of the disease. The total number of deaths was 13, but only three patients died of the direct results of the operation, though two others died shortly after the excision of pysemia, resulting from previous incision of the joint. Of 36 cases recorded by Bilton Pollard in 1892, in which the operation was performed by the method described at p. 434, eight or 21-6 per cent., were known to be dead. Four patients, or 10-8 per cent., died soon after the operation ; in one of these cases the operation was very prolonged, and in another, collapse occurred when the hot water flushing was commenced, the child dying three hours afterwards ; in another, death was entered as due to iodoform poisoning, and the fourth case died collapsed on the eighth day. Of the other four cases, two died from causes unconnected with the hip disease—one from heart disease, and one from diphtheria ; the third died of tuberculous menuigitis, and in the fourth case, death, attributed to abscess of the bram, occurred three and a half years after the operation.