io64 ■ URINAMY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. too mucli pvessure on the blades of the forcens fearinrr ^^^^ fv,. , escape f.on. between then.; or it may arise S'tlXle ^ ^^^:ZZL requunng some force to be exercised in its extraction/when th "n^ very ap to compress the forceps as he draws t]ie stone down. When th^ accident is found to have occurred, the Surgeon must remove wi sma Mash out the bladder by copious injections of tepid water, and very care! ully examine Its interior for any loose pieces. It is seldom that a y wo s ZiTencf ' " ^^l"^^^'^" ^'--^ 'h^B The second mode of fracture consists in the crumbling down of the calculus as soon as it is seized by the forceps, into a soft mortary mass. This can <.cca; only m phosphatic calculi, and is in no Avay the fault of the Surgeon It IS an unpleasant accident, as it becomes extremely difficult, if not impos- sible, to clear away the whole of the soft mortary detritus from the interior of the bladder, to the hning membrane of which it tenaciously adheres. As much as possible should be removed by the scoop, and the remainder washed away as far as practicable, by copious injections ; with all care, however, some will be left, and may be discharged through the wound some days, or even two or three weeks, after the operation. When this happens, the bladder should be thoroughly washed out every day, or every second day, by warm water injec- tions thrown m through a catheter passed down the urethra and allowed to regurgitate through the wound. Should the wound have healed, the detritus must be treated as in lithotrity ; and the bladder must be washed out every second or third day by a large-eyed catheter, until all is removed. Accidents during Lateral Lithotomy.—The principal accidents that may occur during the performance of lateral lithotomy are HEemorrhacre ; Cutting the Bulb ; Missing the Membranous Portion of the Urethra ; Wound of the Eectum ; or Wound of the Posterior Part of the Bladder. Hsemorrhage during lithotomy may occur from three sources : 1. The Superficial Arteries of the Perineum ,• 2. The Deep Arteries ; and, 3. The Prostatic and other Veins. When excessive, from whatever source it pro- ceeds, it is always a very serious complication ; for, even if it do not prove fatal by the induction of syncope, &c., which I believe to be very rarely the case, it is apt to lead to a fatal termination indirectly at a later period, by predisposing to the occurrence of infective processes either local or general. I believe that patients who lose a large quantity of blood at the operation seldom recover. 1. Hemorrhage from the Division of the Siqm-Jicial or the Transverse Artery of the PerincBum is seldom very dangerous, though occasionally, if these vessels be larger than usual, they may furnish a serious quantity of blood ; in such circumstances their ligature would be required, and might be practised either before or after the extraction of the calculus. It is better, if possible, to wait until the completion of the operation, lest the ligature be pulled off during the extraction of the stone. 2. The Division of the Deep Arteries of the perineum, that of the bulb and the internal pudic, would be attended with far more serious, perhaps even fatal, consequences ; as, from the depth of the vessels, it would be almost impossible to ligature them, unless the patient were very thin, and the peri- neum proportionately shallow. The facility of ligaturing any of these