TUBERCULOUS HIP DISEASE: AMPUTATION. present, or when perforation has occurred with the formation of an intra- pelvic abscess the condition can seldom be recovered from unless the head of the bone is removed. This is often itself extensively diseased (Fig. 571, 572), but apart from this it is only possible to treat the diseased acetabulum efficiently and drain any existing abscess by removing the head of the bone. Fourthly, in the later stages of the disease when septic sinuses are present, and the patient is suffering from hectic, excision is usually an imperative necessity. The operation is then undertaken as an alternative for amputation, which is here too formidable a proceeding to be undertaken except in the last extremity. Lastly, the operation may be required in old-standing cases when sinuses are present and the limb is in a flexed or otherwise deformed position. By the application of a weight extension the malposition may sometimes be corrected and by laying open and scraping the sinuses they may be healed. Often, however, excision is required, and serves the double purpose of curing the sinuses and bringing the limb into a satisfactory position. The question of Amputation in cases of disease of the hip-joint is one that must often have presented itself to the Surgeon w^hen he has contemplated the shortened, wasted, and deformed member that is sometimes left after the more advanced forms of the disease, and which can never be rendered useful as a basis of support to the body by any mechanical contrivance, however skilfully designed, but must always remain a useless and cumbrous appendage. It appears to me that this operation is justifiable, and, indeed, is to be advocated in the following circumstances : 1. In cases where the disease is confined to the head of the femur, or where, if any portion of the pelvic bones be attacked, it is to so limited an extent as to be readily removable by the gouge, excision would necessarily be the usual practice. But if the patient's health be too low to bear this, or if the Hmb be so shortened, atrophied, and deformed by long disuse as to be incapable of furnishmg proper support, then amputation at the hip-joint would, I think, be a proper procedure. I do not think that the mere destruction of the cartilaginous lining of the acetabulum should be an argument against the per- formance of the operation; for we constantly see in hip-joint disease when the head of the bone has been dislocated, or after amputation at the hip-joint for accident or ordinary disease, that the acetabulum is filled up with a dense hbroid mass after the destruction or removal of its cartilage. But, if the pelvic bones be so far diseased that the necrosed or carious part does not admit ot removal, then necessarily amputation would not be justifiable. 2 When the disease involves the shaft of the femur, which may be necrosed, or atrophied to such an extent as not to leave a sound limb after the removal ot the upper epiphysis, amputation would be proper. 3. Amputation would be justifiable after excision has been tried and has tailed m securing a useful result to the patient, the limb being left short, weak, loose, and oedematous. ' 4. In a few instances amputation has been successfully performed when alter excision, the discharge from the sinuses had continued and albumenoid degeneration of the viscera had set in. Cases have been recorded by Marshall and Barwell, m which, after the operation, the size of the enlarged viscera sensibly diminished, and the general health greatly improved 5. Excision of the hip is occasionally followed by osteomyelitis of the femur VOL. II. ^".i, F F