832 HERNIA. the fonnatioii of dense adveutitious bands npon or within the sac and nof . any muscular action. ^"^ "ot by Strangulation is characterized by conffestion of tho nmfmrq.^ . • j , tollows: Aknuck e of intestine, or piece of omentum, is suddenly nrotrnd.!? durmg an etfort of some kind. This immediately becomes comirbyll^^^ sides of he narrow aperture through which it has escaped ; the return of venous b ood is consequently interfered with, and swelling akd oedema rapidly ensue, culminating in stagnation of the blood in it. If the const^cZ U excessively t ght, the walls of the ring being very hard nd he par hat IS so sti-angulated may be deprived of its vitality in the o^rse of a Z^T' f ^.^^^•'^^g'^l^t^*^- be less severe, so that the circulation is not entirely arrested, the changes characteristic of inflammation will supervene In proportion as the congestion augments, the return of the protruded parts is necessarily rendered more difficult by the increase of their swellino- Seat of Stricture.-The stricture is very commonly situated outside the neck of the sac, m the tendinous or ligamentous structures surrounding it • not unfrequently in the altered and thickened subserous areolar tissue. In other cases, and indeed with great frequency, it is met with in the neck of the sac itself (Fig. 795), which is narrowed, elongated, and tubular; or constricted by bands that are incorporated with it. More rarely it exists in the body of the sac, which may have assumed an hour-glass shape. In some cases, it would appear as if this particular shape was owing to an old hernia having been pushed down by a recent one above it. The stricture is sometimes, though by no means fi-equently, met with inside the sac, consisting of bands of adhesions stretching across this, or of the indurated edge of an aperture in the omentum through which a portion of the gut has slipped. Local Effects of Strangulation. — The changes induced in the strangulated parts result from the pressure of the stricture, and the consequent interference with the circulation through them. If the strangulation be acute, that portion of intestine which lies immediately under the stricture will be seen to be nipped or marked by a deep sulcus, occasioned partly by the pressure to which it has been subjected, and partly by the swelling of the congested tissues beyond it. The changes that take place in the protruded intestine rapidly increase in proportion to the duration of the strangulation. The tightness of the stricture and the acuteness of the strangulation have, however, even more to do with these changes than its duration. I have seen the bowel so tightly nipped that, though the strangu- lation had existed only eight hours when the oijeration was performed, the vitality was lost in the part constricted (Fig. 801) ; and in other cases I have known the part to recover, although strangulation had lasted for five or six days. The first change that takes place in the protruded parts in the case of strangulated hernia is their congestion. This is purely mechanical, and arises Pig. 705.—Stricture in the Neck of the Sac, laid open.