HERNIA, 848 which hes beneath the stricture ; or the tense gut, curhng over tiie sidp groove, may come into contact with the edge of the knife. These ^oZ . are prevented by using the finger as a director, and shpping the herniate, (which should not have quite so long a probe-point as those usually madf; Fig. T99.-Heniia-knife. Fig. SOO.—Mode of using the Hemia-knife. Fi?1^n ?n lie finger upon its flat side (as represented in Fig. 800) : the finger serves to keep the bowel out of the way, and detecte any part that may be interposed bet\veen the edge of the knife and the During the division of the stricture, the protruding portions of intestine must be protected from the knife. The operator may spread his left hand over them in such a way that they cannot be touched by the edge of the instrument: or they may be protected by an assistant. In some cases the stricture is so tight that it is at first almost impossible to get the edge of the nail underneath it. The Surgeon will, however, generally succeed in doing so, by directing his . , ,. , , . assistant to draw down the coil of intestine, so as to loosen it, as it were, from underneath the stricture ; he will then usually succeed in passing his finger up in the middle of the coil, where the mesentery lies. As soon as the blunt end of the hernia-knife has been passed under the stricture, its sharp edge must be turned up, and the con^ striction divided m a proper direction, to a very limited extent, from one- eighth to a quarter of an inch. Reduction.-The intestine and omentum, having been examined, must be dealt with according to the condition in which they are found ; as will sub- sequently be described. If these structures be sufficiently healthy to admit of reduction, the mtestine should first of all be replaced. This must be done by pushing it back with as much gentleness as possible, and chiefly by usino- the index fingers. When it has slipped up into the abdomen, the omentum must be returned in the same way. Care should be taken that the margins of the sac are firmly held down by means of a pair of forceps ; lest it, together with Its contents, be returned en masse, the stricture being undivided After reduction, the Surgeon should pass his finger through the neck of the sac, and leel that all is clear. Treatment of the Sac—As a general rule, the operation should be com- pleted by closing the neck of the sac, and, if possible, the riui?, as in the radical cure of a reducible hernia. The details of this part of the operation vary with the variety of the rupture, and will be described with the special hernia, ihere are, however, many exceptions to the rule. It may happen that the