TUBERCULOSIS OF THE BREAST. any case ■ ia which there is reason even to suspect the possibihty of the apparent tumour of the breast being in reality an abscess. Treatment.-ThQ abscess should be opened as soon as recognized, and it ot sufficient size a drainage-tube should be inserted. Should the mass of indurated tissue surrounding the pus be very large and dense, a free incision carried through it will usually hasten its disappearance, or in some cases the diseased lobule may be completely excised. Chronic Submammary Abscess has also been described under the name of " diffused abscess." It consists of an ordinary chronic abscess containing curdy pus, and is probably in all cases due to necrosis of a rib. ^ It is not therefore properly to be considered a disease of the breast, its relation to that gland being purely accidental. Tuberculosis of the Breast.—xilthough tubercle of the udder of the cow is of comparatively common occurrence, and of great importance on account of Fig. 776.—Tuberculous Disease of Breast. Inter- acinous tubercle (65 diams.)- Breast acini; h, tubercle system ; c, ftbrous stroma; d, blood-vessel. Fig. 777.—Tuberculous Disease of Breast Intra-acinous tubercle (67 diams.). the liability to infection of the milk, tuberculous disease of the human breast had received but little attention until recent years, and was regarded as an extremely rare affection. It seems certain, however, that the disease is by no means so rare as was at one time supposed, and this is readily explained by the fact that a chronic inflammatory condition of the breast often pi'csents no chnical features which indicate its tuberculous nature, certain evidence only being afforded by microscopic examination. Symptoms.—Tubercle of the breast may occur in two clinical varieties : first, as a chronic induration in the gland, and secondly, as a chronic abscess. Each form is most common in young women, and may be associated with evidences of tubercle in the lungs or elsewhere. Enlarged glands may be present in the axilla, especially when the disease in the breast assumes the form of a chronic tuberculous abscess. Should the abscess burst spon- taneously, or be simply opened, an intractable sinus is likely to remain.