553 CONGENITAL TALIPES EQUINO-VAKUS. certain that it it not true of al]. Not only is there no evidence at birth in the majority of cases either of spasm or paralysis, but, as has been shown by Parker and Shattock, a most careful microscopic examination of the nervous centres, the nerves, and the muscles, fails to show any structural abnormahty. The view also that the talipes results from primary changes in the bones can be true only of very exceptional cases, for although deviations from the normal shape of certain of the tarsal bones may be present, it seems clear that these are secondary to the malposition of the foot and not the cause of it. The third theory, and that which is at the present time almost generally accepted, is that the deformity results from mechanical causes acting upon the foot in utero. It is well known that the normal position of the feet in the early periods of intra-uterine life is one of inversion, and, as Parker and Shattock express it, if the inversion "be maintained beyond the normal period of time, the muscles and ligaments will as a consequence be adaptively short on one aspect of the limb, and too long on the other ; a normal position of inversion will become a deformity." This view readily explains the relative frequency of talipes equino-varus. According to the same theory congenital talipes calcaneus is the result of "an exaggeration by environment of the position natural to the foetal feet during the later period of intra-uterine life, some limitation of extension movement being normal at the time of birth." Among the conditions, which may be supposed to act mechanically upon the feet in this way are malposition of the foetus and undue pressure of the wall of the uterus, due possibly to a deficiency of the liquor amnii. The results of treatment support the mechanical theory and are opposed equally to the so- called nervous and osseous theories, for many of the slighter cases can be cured by means directed to place the foot in its normal position and retain it there. Talipes may affect one or both feet, and may occur in either sex, but appears to be more common in boys than in girls. On account of the fact that talipes equino-varus is much more common than any other variety of congenital club-foot, this form will be described fally, and the other varieties will afterwards be briefly mentioned. In Congenital Talipes Equino-varus the foot is twisted inwards, the inner side of the sole is raised, and the concavity of the arch of the foot is greatly increased. At the same time the heel is drawn upwards to a varying extent and the tendo Achillis is tense. The skin at the inner border of the foot is contracted and transversely wrinkled, whilst that on the outer side is loose and redundant. When the child is old enough to stand it will be found that only the outer border of the foot comes into contact with the ground, the skin covering the tarsal end of the fifth metatarsal bone becomes dense and firm, and a bursa forms beneath it (Fig. 647). The astragalus and os calcis maintain their normal relations to each other, and are more or less adducted. The chief displacement is at the transverse tarsal articulation between the os calcis and cuboid, and the astragalus and scaphoid. The anterior part of the foot is in a position of extreme flexion, adduction, and rotation inwards, amounting in many cases to partial dislocation. A great part of the head of the astragalus which should be normally in contact with the scaphoid is thus uncovered, and forms a prominence beneath the skin. In old icases the cartilage of the head will be found to have disappeared, its place being taken by a layer of dense fibrous tissue. The bones in front of the transverse articulation maintain their normal relation to each other. The muscles that