DISEASES OF THE LOWER JAW. 6481 behind the jaw ,n front of the tumour separating the mylo-hyoid and dividing the mucous membrane ,n the floor of the mouth, care bein/taken not 0 "! away the genio-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossus muscles, unless the situation of Z tumour IS such that this cannot be avoided. If these muscles are necessai% divided, a thick ligature should be passed through the end of the tongue wLioh must be drawn forwards by an assistant, lest it fall backwards into the pharvn^ and thus occasion suffocation, as has happened to Surgeons of eminence hot) in France and in America. The jaw having been cleared on both sidos in iront of the tumour, the incisor tooth must be drawn at the point where'it is intended to divide the bone, and the saw (Fig. G99) apphed. The section should be completed with the saw, as if the bone-forceps be used a jagged edrre will probably be left. The jaw is then seized either by the fingers or in th^ Fig. 700.—Excision of Lower Jaw. Disarticulation of Condyle. lion-forceps, forcibly depressed and drawn somewhat outwards, while the cheek flap is pulled upwards so as to bring the coronoid process into view with the attachment of the temporal muscle, which must be divided. If, as some- times happens, this cannot easily be reached, the coronoid process may be cut through with a saw and removed afterwards. As soon as the bone is freed from the temporal muscle it may be drawn more outwards and its inner side cleared from the internal pterygoid, care being taken to keep the edge of the knife turned towards the bone to avoid the submaxillary gland and the lingual nerve. Lastly, by forcibly depressing the bone the condyle is dislocated ; the external pterygoid is divided by a touch of the knife, and the bone then comes away (Fig. 700). During this stage of the operation care must be taken not to divide the internal maxillary artery, which lies close to the neck of the bone between it and the internal lateral ligament. If the bone be twisted too much outwards the condyle will pass under the artery, which is then torn through