734 DISEASES OF THE LARYNX. hold his own tongue, and to tolemte the presence of the instrument. For th;« purpose It 18 often necessary to train him for a week or two before any Z attempt is made to remove the growth. The smaller papillary growths sometimes disappear under the application of nitrate of silver ; in such case therefore the Surgeon should not bo in a hurry to attempt operative inter terence Ihe accompanying drawings (Figs. 758, 751), 7G0) show variouB forms ot forceps which may be used in these operations. Should the endo-laryngeal operation fail or be impossible, the growth must be removed by an ecto-laryngeal operation. Mackenzie laid it down as a cardinal rule that no operation of this kind should be undertaken unless there is danger to life from dyspnoea or dysphagia. The operation most commonly performed is that known as Thyrotomy It is advisable in most cases to perform a preliminary tracheotomy about a fortnight before undertaking the removal of the tumour. When the patient has quite recovered from this and feels no further discomfort from the tube thyrotomy may be undertaken. The operation is thus performed : An incision is made accurately in the middle line from the thyroid notch to the cricoid cartilage. The thyroid cartilage is then carefully divided with a knife, or, if it be ossified, with a fine saw. The alae are then held apart with blunt hook's and the interior of the larynx is ftiUy exposed. A small piece of sponge may then be passed into the trachea so as to plug the opening above the tube, lest blood should pass into the lungs. The growth may then be removed with scissors, and the surface from which it grew touched with nitrate of silver. After all bleeding has ceased the sponge is removed, and the parts accurately brought together, and the trachea-tube is retained until the patient can breathe through the glottis with ease. Tumours affecting the upper opening of the glottis or the epiglottis have also been removed by a transverse incision in the thyro-hyoid space—subhyoid pharyngotomy. Malgaigue recommended that the incision should be made along the lower border of the hyoid bone, partially dividing the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles and the thyro-hyoid membrane. The head being thrown well back, sufficient space may thus be obtained to allow of removal of the epiglottis or a tumour situated in its immediate neighbourhood. This operation can seldom be required, as simple growths in this region can usually be removed from the mouth. nUalignant Tumours of the Iiarynx.—Both carcinoma and sarcoma are met with in the larynx, but the former is far more common, and is met with almost invariably as the squamous-celled variety. Columnar carcinoma has, however, been observed, and hard glandular cancer is said to have been seen. When sarcoma occurs in the larynx it is most commonly spindle-celled, less frequently round-celled or mixed. Butlin, who has collected the records of 23 cases of sarcoma, states that half the cases were spindle-celled. Malignant growths in the larynx may be intrinsic or extrinsic, that is to say, they may commence in its interior, or spring from surrounding parts and secondarily invade it. According to Krishaber the inlrinsic variety of carcinoma may affect the ventricular band, the ventricle, the true vocal cord or the parts below it ; whilst the extrinsic variety begins in the epiglottis, the aryteuo- epiglottidean fold, the inter-arytenoid fold or the posterior surface of the cricoid. The division is a most important one, for whilst the intrinsic form grows slowly and does not tend to infect the glands, the extrinsic variety is