15 SARCOMA OF THE SKIN. for many inches around the parb first implicated. Each of these is a small scirrhous cancer identical in structure with the primary growth in the mammary gland. In other cases, fortunately rare, the skin covering the side of the chest is widely infiltrated by the malignant growth. It becomes smooth, of a brownish-red colour, and hard and rigid, like a piece of leather, from which it has received the name of the " cancerous cuirass." Saecoma of the Skin.—Various forms of sarcoma are met with in the skin. Spindle-celled and round-celled sarcoma are seen here as in all other fibrous structures. Two forms, however, show a special predilection for the skin—the melanotic, and the alveolar. Melanotic Sarcoma often commences in some pigmented spot, such as a mole. It forms a rounded tumour, smooth on the surface, and dark brown or black in colour. It is intensely malignant; generalisation may occur whilst the primary growth is still quite insignificant in size, and however early it may be removed, it is very apt to return both locally and in internal organs. If not removed it gradually increases and at last ulcerates, but before this takes place it often reaches a considerable size. I have met with two instances of this disease, one on the foot, the other on the hand, in women abo\'e seventy years of age. Some time after removal in both cases, brownish black patches looking like stains of Indian ink appeared on the skin in the neighbourhood of the cicatrix. These gradually developed into new tumours. In one case hundreds of these formed up the leg, varying in size from a pea to a filbert. They slowly ulcerated and life was destroyed, probably by secondary growths in the viscera, after a period of about four years from the primary manifestation of the disease. Alveolar Sarcoma of the skin is rare. Its structure and general character have already been described (Yol. I., p. 1043). In some cases the growth is pigmented. It commences as a hard lump in the cutis vera, which steadily increases in size until it may form a projection raised half an inch or more above the surface, and one inch or more in diameter. At first it is covered by the cuticle which is smooth and shining, but after a time this gives way in the centre of the tumour and an ulcer is formed which may gradually extend into the substance of the tumour. The edges of the sore are slightly raised and everted, and the surface is usually yellowish or grey and yields a thin discharge. In many cases numerous fresh growths spring up around the original tumour. Thus, in a case in University College Hospital, twenty or more such tumours, varying in size from a pea to a walnut, were scattered over the leg below the knee. ^ They grow slowly as a rule, and cause little pain. If not removed by operation, they ultimately prove fatal by gradual extension of the local growth with wide-spreading ulceration, but more commonly by the formation of secondary tumours in the viscera. It is probably this tumour that was described by Scarpa as the " scirrhous wart," as from its hardness and the local and genera] malignancy it usually manifests, it closely resembles scirrhous cancer. The Treatment of a Malignant Tumour of the Skin, whether a carcmoma or a sarcoma, consists in its excision or in amputation of the limb affected. Its removal by excision should be efi'ected as soon as its nature is recognized—provided it be of such a size, and so situated, that it can be freely removed with a sufficient stratum of subjacent healthy parts, and a wide border of surrounding skin. Should this be impossible, and the growth