UMHILICAL HERNIA. strangulated umbilical hernia must depend ciiiefly upon the size of the herni« and the general condition of the patient. When the hernia is of old stand and of very large size, and the patient aged and feeble, any attempt to reduce the protrusion completely is out of the (juestion. Not only are Z contents inextricably bound together by firm adhesions, but when a L^^ n^rf of the abdominal contents occupy the sac, there may be insufficient space to allow of their reduction. The obstruction is usually due to the constriction of a comparatively small loop of gut which has recently entered the sac In such cases the Surgeon, especially if he be single-handed, will find himself in a serious dilemma if lie freely lay open a sac which contains nearly all the small intestines and a considerable part of the large. The stricture should if ])0ssible, be divided without opening the sac. This may usually be accom- phshed by drawing the tumour well down, and then making an incision in it about two inches in length over the neck at its upper part in the mesial line If the tumour overlap here, it may be more convenient to make the incision by the side of the umbilical cicatrix ; but, as a general rule, the upper part is the best. After the division of the integumental structures, and often of a deep layer of fat, the end of the nail may be slipped under the edge of the sharp circular aperture through which the protrusion has occurred" and the stricture divided away from the sac, and if possible in the mesial line. Should the strangulation not be thus relieved, the sac must be opened, and any stricture divided from within. As a rule this will not allow the complete reduction of the hernia, but relief of the symptoms may be expected if the size of the tumour is appreciably diminished, for, as already stated, the strangulated coil of gut is often not adherent. When the hernia is of more moderate dimensions and the patient's condition favourable, the sac should be freely opened, and after the contents have been reduced, steps should be taken to produce a radical cure. The operation adopted in such cases will be identical with that undertaken for the cure of non-strangulated hernijfi, and is described below. Treves states that his results in treating these hernise at the London Hospital have much improved since he. has adopted this method in every instance. A free excision of omentum will almost always be necessary, and the management of the intestine must be conducted on the lines laid down at page 844. Great care must be taken not to return the gut still strangulated by bands or through apertures in the omentum. It is not often that strangulation of an umbilical hernia occurs during pregnancy, but, should it do so, the operation must be performed as usual ; this condition does not complicate the case much, and instances are recorded by Astley Cooper, Lawrence, and others, of its successful performance at this period. Radical Cure of Umbilical Hernia.—This, as already stated, is usually effected by the pressure of a sim])le pad in infants and children. The herniae of adults usually occur in fat, flabby women, who are bad subjects for any operation, and consequently it is in but a small proportion of cases that the operation is justifiable. Adherent intestine in the sac is a serious complica- tion, but if the omentum only is adherent and the gut reducible the operation is more practicable. If the hernia be very large it is not wise to operate as, even if the patient survived the operation, the cure would almost certainly not be permanent. No operation for radical cure should be attempted without the most efficient antiseptic precautions.