934 OPEliATIONS ON THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. Ill wliich colectomy had been performed for malignant disease. Of these iiO died as a result of the operation, 29 recovered, and in 2 the result was not known Of the 29 cases which recovered tlie result was traced for a variable time in 20. In 10 death oi- recurrence of the disease was reported after periods vary ing from one to twenty-two months ; in 9 no recurrence was observed after periods varying from two to ten months. Only one case was " cured,'' the patient being free from recurrence four years after Gussenbauer had removed four inches of the sigmoid flexure for carcinoma. Operation.—The general directions for the performance of abdominal section given at p. 819 must be carefully attended to. The patient must be thoroughly under the influence of the anaesthetic ; complete relaxation of the abdominal walls being a great assistance to the Surgeon. The incision must be made according to circumstances, the most convenient position being, as a rule, over the disease. The early stages of the operation are exactly the same as when it is undertaken for wounded intestine (Vol. I., p. 885 et seq.). The division of the intestine must be made well beyond the limits of the disease. After the resection has been performed the subsequent steps of the operation will depend upon circumstances. If the conditions are all favourable the ends of divided intestine may at once be united, and the continuity of the bowel re-established. This may be done by one or other of the methods of suture described in Vol. I., p. 885 et seq., and for the same purpose the " Murphy button " has recently be'en employed with success (p. 943). If the ends of the divided bowel are of very unequal size, as in uniting the ileum and ascending colon after excision of the csecum, the best method appears to be to close the ends completely with Lembert's sutures, and then perform lateral anastomosis as described at p. 924. In many instances, however, it will be wiser to suture the two ends of the bowel into the abdominal wound, thus making an artificial anus, which may be treated by a subsequent operation (p. 859). This plan of treatment is open to less objection in the case of the large intestine than the small, and in some cases of colectomy a permanent artificial anus has been made by com- pletely closing the lower opening and suturing the edges of the upper one into the wound. OPERATIONS ON THE STOMACH. Perforation of Gastric Ulcer.—When an ulcer, situated in a part of the stomach which is not surrounded by adhesions, perforates, the patient is seized with urgent symptoms, and usually dies within twenty-four hours. The diagnosis is as a rule easy, and may be made almost with certainty when sudden severe abdominal pain, followed rapidly by collapse and vomiting, supervene upon symptoms suggestive of ulceration of the stomach. Under these circumstances the only chance of life is afi'orded by operative interference, which should be undertaken with the least possible delay. An incision should be made in the middle line between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus, and this may be supplemented if necessary by another passing outwards below the left costal margin. The perforation, which is usually situated m the anterior wall of the stomach, must then if possible be closed by several rows of Lembert's sutures, so that a considerable peritoneal surface around the perforation may be brought together. The closure may be tested by injecting Avater mto