ATONY OF THE BLADDER. 1121 ,nopped out with a very strong solution of the nitrate of silver This is best lone by dilating the urethra, passing a silver tube into the bladder, and then throu'^h it a smaU sponge-probang charged with the solution. ATONY OF THE BLADDEB. By Atony of the Bladder is meant such a degree of weakness of this ,rcran that its power of emptying itself is partially or wholly lost. It is m tlie crreat majority of cases a condition of old age, and is not to be confounded with paralysis of the bladder, such as occurs in cases of injury or disease of the spinal cord. In atony the nervous supply is unimpaired; it is the muscular tissue that is at fault. The muscular tissue of the bladder may be impaired from several causes. By far the most common is the chronic strain to which it is exposed in over-distension of the bladder from mechanical obstruction at its neck arising from enlargement of the prostate. In this condition, if the dilated bladder be examined microscopically, its walls will be found to contain a o-reat excess of somewhat dense fibroid tissue, amongst which lie scattered patches of muscular tissue. In some rare cases atony of the bladder may result from a single prolonged voluntary or involuntary over-distension. The structural changes just de- scribed would then of course not be present. Besides these, there is another variety of atony of the bladder commonly 'met with in early middle life, though it may occur at any age. In all the cases in which I have seen this form of atony it has been the consequence either of u^onorrhoeal cystitis or of cystitis following lithotrity. It may lead to partial or complete retention. It is often, but not always, associated with vesical catarrh and fetid urine. This condition, when once it has become chronic, is, I believe, incurable. In it structural changes take place in the bladder conse- quent upon the extension of the chronic inflammatory process from the mucous inembrane to the submucous tissue and muscular coat. Its walls become thickened, rugged, and pouched. The bladder is able neither to retain the normal amount of urine, nor completely to empty itself. The retained urine usually undergoes decomposition, and this condition is very apt to end in fatal disease of the kidneys. Excluding all these conditions, there is yet another form of atony of the bladder which may be regarded as the most typical variety. It is essentially a condition of old age, and appears to be a senile degenerative change analogous to that of the heart and other organs so commonly met with at that time of life. Such a change occurring in a bladder occasions its distension from slight causes of obstruction which aould readily be overcome by the healthy organ i)f a younger man. Thus, we not unfrequently see a dilated atonic bladder occurring as the result of stricture of the urethra in an old man, instead of the contracted hypertrophied organ commonly met with as the result of this disease. A strong bladder may overcome a moderate amount of obstruction to the escape of the urine ; an atonic bladder utterly fails to do so. Thus, we see that a condition of atony of the bladder may occur in an otherwise healthy man from the obstruction of prostatic disease, while, on the other hand, a degree of obstruction that would be harmless to a healthy man may cause serious symptoms in one whose bladder is atonic to begin with. It is difficult to determine in most cases which is to be regarded as the primary condition. VOL. II, -1 c