7^o DISEASES OF THE PHARYNX. of nasal obstruction are pronounced, the presence of adenoids should be suspected. Deafness is very commonly the result of chronic catarrh of the Eustachian tubes, the orifices of which are in close relation with the diseased area. Suppuration in the middle ear is by no means an uncom- mon complication. Lastly, it may be pointed out that a condition of follicular hypertrophy, insufficient to cause nasal obstruction and possibly not associated with deafness, may still be of importance as a source of unhealthy absorption, which is evidenced by obstinate glandular enlargement in the neck. The treatment of the slighter cases should consist in attention to the general health and the use of astringent injections into the nose. Except in the very slightest forms, any local treatment other than removal of the adenoid vegetations by operation is generally useless. For this purpose various kinds of forceps, curettes and ring-knives have been invented. Lowenberg's forceps are largely employed, and Gottstein's curette will be found a most efficient iustrument. The operation is performed as follows :—Chloroform is adminis- tered in amount sufficient just to produce unconsciousness, but on no account must the angesthetic be pushed to deep insensibility, or the risk of blood entering the larynx is greatly increased. The child being drawn to the end of the table, so that the head hangs slightly over it, a Mason's gag is inserted on the left side, the Surgeon standing on the right. If the tonsils are enlarged these are first removed. The curette is then passed up behind the soft palate and is drawn firmly from above downwards over the pharynx several times, so as to scrape the vegetations from its posterior wall. After the bulk of the growths has in this way been removed, the nail of the index finger will be found most useful in detaching the smaller fragments, especially at the sides, which are liable to escape. The bleedini( is often very profuse, but in the majority of cases it quickly ceases. The blood is prevented from entering the larynx by repeatedly sponging out the pharynx, but especially by keeping the head shgbtly dependent and turned well on to the right side so that the blood collects in the cheek. If the bleeding is un- usually free the pressure of a sponge will almost certainly arrest it, and it has very rarely been found necessary to plug the posterior nares. After the operation the child should be kept indoors for two or three days, beyond which no after treatment is necessary. The cure is usually permanent if the removal of the adenoid vegetations has been thorough. Erysipelatous Pharyngitis is occasionally met with. It is characterised by an invasion and subsequent constitutional disturbance, like that of erysipelas, (Vol. I., p. 945), with enlargement of the glands under the jaw. The mucouE membrane is of a brilliant red colour, and considerably swollen. There is great pain in swallowing, and severe or fatal dyspnoea may follow from oedema of the glottis. The prognosis in these cases is always grave. The treatmmi consists in the external application of heat, the local application of a strong solution of perchloride of iron or nitrate of silver, and steaming the throat. The strength must be maintained by liquid food and stimulants. Should dyspncea occur, the larynx or trachea should be opened at once. Diffuse Cellulitis of the Submucous Tissue of the Pharynx or Phlegmonous Pharyngitis is a very rare affection, arising occasionally from injury, but in other cases without evident cause. It commences witu redness, swelling, and pain in swallowing, but the serious nature of the case is