SPECIAL ANEURISMS. j82 dilatation. In the Museum of the CoUege of 8ur<^eon8, liowever, there are })reparations of aneurismal dilatation of both internal cai-otid arteries. A case occurred in University College Hospital under the care of A. T. Thomson, in which a somewhat similar condition existed. A man, forty- nine years of age, had fallen on his head some months before admission into the Hospital. Since then he had been garrulous, silly, and very irritaVjle— becoming readily intoxicated. He suddenly became comatose, with vomiting and laborious breathing; he could close both eyes, but the right pupil was dilated ; the left side was paralysed. He was treated for apoplexy, and became slightly better, but died in ten days from the first attack. An aneu]"ism a little larger than a hazel-nut w^as found on the trunk of the right carotid, where it gave off the middle cerebral, and another small one on the course of that artery. There was a globular aneurism on the corresponding artery of the opposite side ; the basilar artery was thickened, wdiite, and opaque, as were also the other larger arteries of the brain; there was softening of both anterior cerebral lobes, especially the right, Pressure-Effects.—The pressure exercised by an aneurism situated within the skull is always chiefly directed against the yielding cerebral substance, which is often extensively disorganised ; the bones of the skull frequently escape, and seldom suffer much. Absorption of the subjacent bone, however, sometimes takes place to a limited extent: thus, in one case (Moore's) the body of the sphenoid bone was indented and partially absorbed. The parts compressed in each case will vary according to the situation of the tumour. But the structures that principally suffer are necessarily those seated at the base of the brain, and forming the floor of the lateral ventricles. In Moore's case, one of the optic nerves w^as flattened ; the lamina perforata, the roots of the olfactory tract, the anterior part of the corpus striatum, and a considerable quantity of the neighbouring white matter of the anterior lobe, were destroyed. In a case recorded by Lager, the facial nerve of the right side was paralysed from this cause. In R. W. Smith's case, the floor of the third ventricle, the tuber cinereum, and the origins of the optic and olfactory nerves, suffered ; the optic nerve of the opposite side was flattened and softened. Besides the changes that take place in the cerebral substance as the result of pressure, important lesions may be met with as the effect of the interference of the aneurism with the circulation in and nutrition of the cerebral hemispheres. Thus, in the case of aneurism of both internal carotids that has already been referred to as occurring at University College Hospital, there was white softening of both the anterior cerebral lobes ; and this lesion was most marked on the side that corresponded to the larger aneurism, and where consequently, it may be supposed, the greater amount of obstruction to the circulation existed. Symptoms.—The symptoms of aneurism within the skull are extremely equivocal ; and, indeed, an aneurism of large size may exist at the base of the brain without occasioning any symptoms whatever. Au interesting instance of this occurred at University College Hospital in 1848. A man, thirty-seven years of age, died of pulmonary apoplexy and chronic pneumonia of the lelt lung, consequent upon the pressure of an aneurism of the commencement ot the descending aorta on the pulmonary veins. On post-mortem^x^mmKixoxi au aneurism of the basilar artery as large as a hazel-nut was found, which had