DISEASE OF THE SACIiO-lLIAC JOINT. that these general expressions should, as far as possible, be avoided, and the diflferent affections accurately named according to theii- pathology. Synovitis op the Hip may occur as the result of injury or may be rheumatic in nature. It is, however, nob common, and derives its chief importance ii-om the difficulty in some cases of distinguishing it from the earliest stages of tuberculous disease. The thick covering of muscles which i surrounds the hip-joinfc renders the detection of slight effusion into it • impossible, and thus the diagnosis of acute synovitis will usually be based upon the muscular fixation of the joint and the pain caused by the slightest j movement. The position assumed by the limb is the same as that to be ■ described subsequently in early tuberculous disease. In the consideration of | the subject of spontaneous dislocations (Vol. I., p. 704), reference has been 1 made to cases in which acute synovitis of the hip occurring in the course j of an attack of acute rheumatism or typhoid fever, has caused such I extreme distension of the joint as to lead to dislocation of the head of the f femur. Eheumatoid Arthritis of the Hip has already been considered I at p. 354, whilst Charcot's disease as it occurs in this joint requires no special description. Acute Arthritis of the Hip.—Acute destructive inflammation may I occur in the hip in any of the forms which have already been described (see i p. 336 et seq.). Thus we meet with an infective form, which may occur in cases of pygemia, and with which must be included that sometimes resulting fi'om puerperal fever, gonorrhoea, or one of the acute specific diseases, such as typhoid fever. Acute suppuration in the hip may result from acute necrosis ' of the upper end of the femur. When it is remembered that the epiphysial line between the head and the neck of the bone is altogether within the line of attachment of the capsule, it is easy to understand that suppuration com- mencing in this position will readily infect the joint cavity. In a case of acute suppuration in the hip recently in University College Hospital which proved fatal from pericarditis, it was found post mortem that the periosteum was stripped from a considerable part of the neck of the femur within the ' joint. There seemed little doubt that in this instance the primary affection was acute infective periostitis, the pus having burst through the periosteum into the cavity of the joint. In rare instances destruction of the hip-joint may result from the extension of suppuration into it from without, whilst Icases are occasionally met with in which acute suppuration in this joint follows exposure to cold—the so-called " rheumatic arthritis" which has been described at p. 337. The Symptoms of acute arthritis of the hip vary considerably in their severity and in the suddenness of their onset. The most acute symptoms are observed in cases in wnich the joint is affected secondarily to suppuration in the upper end of the femur. The patient is more or less suddenly seized with severe pain in the joint, accompanied by great constitutional disturbance and pyrexia. The pain in the joint is excruciating, accompanied by spasms and twitchings of the limb, and marked by nocturnal exacerbations, 'J'lie suffering is so intense that the patient cannot bear the slightest movement of the limb ; a fit of coughing, the weight of the bed-clothes, or the shaking of the bed by a person leaning against it will give rise to intense agony; and in the intervals of his suffering the patient is in constant fear of a return of the pain. In these cases the limb is flexed, everted, abducted, perfectly