950 DISEASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. the pew, ,J,,ing n^a/bo th! l^n^ h nT" 7Vm/»«/.-I„ tl.ese cases the Sargcou must first m l. »n successful in all those cases in which the anus only mSmte the Tf ^ being present. In those cases in which there is^onSaWe ^ rectum this operation must necessarily fail. The oSon is H.nf ' ormed :-An incision about an inch in'ength shou d a ef 11 m d the point of the coccyx forwards. The dissection requires to ^caS ,k caution to a considerable depth along the mesial line; and the Sui^e n t in' the curve of the sacrum and coccyx for his guide, and bearing in 3 the relations of the bladder and large vessels in the neighbourhood iareTdlv pi-oceeds m search of the gut, wdiich may be found at\ consider;, le 2 from the surface. A probe may be passed into the urethra of a male cl d or he vagina of a female, to serve as a guide to the position of these canals The danger of wounding the bladder must also be considered, and may be materially lessened by emptying this viscus by pressing over the pubes before commencing the operation. In four instances of this kind on which I have operated it was necessary to proceed to a depth of at least an inch and a half before the bowel was reached ; which, on account of the narrowness of the wound and the small size and important relations of the parts is not an easy matter When the gut is reached it must be punctured and the meconium allowed to escape. It is of the utmost importance both for the immediate result of the operation and for the prospect of ultimate success that the gut should be brought down and fixed to the lips of the external wound. Unless this be done, the line of incision between the gut and the aperture in the integuments will degenerate into a fistulous track, which will have a tendency to contract, and will be a source of much subsequent trouble. If the gut can be brought down to and sutured to the opening in the integument, this source of inconvenience will be removed, and the patient will be saved all that danger which results from the passage of the meconium over a raw surface. TJiis, however, can be done only when the intestine terminates at a comparatively short distance from the surface. If it be impossible, the track should be kept dilated with bougies; or a gum-elastic or pewter tube, through which the freces are ahowed to escape, may be fixed in the part. If the Surgeon fail to reach the bowel through the periureal incision, there is no alternative but to perform colotomy. 2. Colotomy.—Both the inguinal and the lumbar methods have been prac- tised in these cases, and although there is no strong balance of evidence for or against either operation, the preference must be given to the inguinal incision (p. 924). The principal objections to the lumbar operation are that the space between the last rib and the iliac crest, especially in a fat infant, is very limited, and that the colon is often misplaced, and still more frequently possesses a long meso-colon. In performing the inguinal operation, the