^5° SPECIAL ANEURISMS. and bound down by the fascia and muscles under which ib is effused, that it compresses the mouth of the artery leading into the sac, to such an extent as to arrest the passage of blood through it, either wholly or so that it enters in a leebJe stream of insuflicient force to communicate an impulse to the fluid tliat has been extravasated into the limb. This pressure may, as in the case of which an illustration has been given (Fig. 450), be confined to the deep parts ot the limb, and not give rise to much, if any, general tension of it, the blood being confined below the deep fascia, where it communicates the sensation of 11 hard, solid elastic tumour devoid of pulsation. Attention should conse- quently not be too exclusively directed to the state of general tension of the surface of a limb, as this is by no means necessarily an indication of the state of the parts beneath ; but the Surgeon should look rather to the presence or absence of pulsation. If pulsation still exist, the blood continues to find its way into the sac, and most probably through it, the tension of the parts not having yet reached its maximum. If there be no pulsation, he may be sure that the entrance of blood into the diffused aneurism has c-eased in consequence of compression exercised on the mouth of the artery leading to it, by the tense condition of the surrounding tissues reacting on the mass of blood effused beneath them. In such a state of things as this, the vitality of the lower part of the limb can be maintained only by the blood that may find its way through the anastomosing channels ; and this may be sufficient for the purpose if the tension of the limb be not general, the extravasation being confined below the deep fascia. If surgical interference be delayed in such a case as this, the deep fascia will soon give way by over-distension and rupture, and the blood will be infiltrated into the general areolar tissue of the limb ; and then, by compressing those collateral branches that have hitherto maintained a feeble circulation in it, will infallibly occasion gangrene. If, on the other hand, recourse be had to ligature of the main artery, the anastomosing circulation, which may have been barely sufficient to keep up a feeble vitaHty in the leg and foot, will be so much interfered with that gangrene of the limb inevitably ensues. In these cases an attempt may be made to save the limb by laying open the sac and ligaturing above and below its mouth. Should it be impossible to accomplish this the only resource left is to amputate at once. 5. When gangrene threatens, the leg and foot having become cold, the skin being either pale, tallowy, and mottled, or discoloured, of a purplish hue, with perhaps vesications and much oedema, whether the ligature have been previously applied to the femoral artery or not, or whatever the condition of the aneurism may be, w^hether circumscribed or diffused, the patient will stand a better chance of ultimate recovery by having the limb removed at once above the knee. If the amputation be the primary operation, it should be done at the lower third of the thigh, provided the extravasation be confined to below the knee ; or higher up, if the effused blood have extended above this joint. If the femoral artery have already been ligatured, the thigh should be amputated on a level with the ligature, lest sloughing of the flaps occur. Aneurisms of the Tibial Arteries are extremely rare, except as the result of wound, yet they are occasionally met with ; and in the museum of St. George's Hospital there is a preparation of a small aneurism of the posterior tibial. I have seen only one case during life, that of a man suffering from cardiac and renal disease, admitted into University £!ollege