TREATMENT OF NECROSIS—REMOVAL OF SEQUESTRUM. 293 articular ends before these are separated from the shaft. In other cases, though complete, it has not sufficient strength to resist the contractions of the muscles of the limb; under these circumstances, it may spontaneously fracture —an accident that I have seen happen both in the femur and the tibia—or may become shortened or bent. In other instances, again, when the perios- teum has been lost by sloughing, new bone does not form (Fig. 517) ; but as the sequestrum separates, the limb becomes shortened, loose, deformed, and useless. Treatment.—In the treatment of necrosis, the indications to be accomplished are sufficiently simple, though the mode in which they have to be carried out often requires much patience and skill on the part of the Surgeon. In those cases in which the bone is perishing from some chronic progressive disease, as chronic osteitis and periostitis with obliteration of the Haversian canals, or when it is associated with caries, the first point is to remove, if possible, any constitutional or local condition which tends to keep up the disease. Thus, for instance, if it appear to be the result of syphilis, this con- dition must be corrected. So, again, if it arise in the lower jaw from the fumes of phosphorus, the patient must necessarily be removed from their influence. If it be threatened in conse- quence of denudation of bone, the best mode of prevention will be to lay down flaps of integument and so to cover the exposed surface. Abscesses should be opened as soon as recognized. In cases of acute infective periostitis the extent of the necrosis is very materially limited by free and early incisions and the use of antiseptics, and in this way the separa- tion of the epiphyses can often be prevented, and the danger of death from exhaustion or pyaemia avoided. Removal of the Sequestrum.—When all that is possible has been done to arrest the morbid condition to which the necrosis is due, the separation of the sequestrum should be left as much as possible to the unaided efforts of nature. The less the Surgeon interferes with this part of the process the better ; for, as has justly been observed by Wedemeyer, the boundaries of the necrosis are known to Nature only, and the Surgeon will most probably either not reach, or will pass altogether beyond them. Here much patience will be required for many weeks or months : and the utmost the Surgeon can do is to attend to the state of the patient's health, treating him carefully upon general principles, removing inflammatory mischief by appropriate means, opening abscesses as they form in the limb, hmitmg or preventing the decomposition of the discharges by antiseptic apphcations, and at a later period, keeping up the patient's strength by good diet, tonics, and general treatment, calculated to support him against the depressing and wasting influence of continued suppuration. As soon as a sequestrum has been detached from the adjacent or underlying bone the Surgeon must proceed to its removal. In most cases it is sufficiently easy, when the necrosis is superficial, to ascertain that this separation has taken place, as the flat end of a probe may be pushed under the edge of the detached lamina. When, however, the sequestrum is deeply seated, it is not always so Fig. 517. — Acute Necrosis of Tibia. Deficient Forma- tion of NewBone.