1085 LITIIOTRITY: THE OPERATION. fundus In seizing the calculus a good deal of tact may be required The San recommended by Brodie should first be adopted. The closed lithotrite is ^^essed gTn^ly against the inferior fundus of the bladder, so as to make a Sal depression in this situation. The male blade is then gently withdrawa till some ^ight sense of resistance is felt, indicating that it is touching the other side of the bladder. A gentle shake may then be given to the handle, and the blades closed, when, in a large proportion of cases, the stone will be found to be between them (Fig. 889). During the whole of this proceeding the left hand, holding the instrument, must be kept perfectly steady, and no force of any kind should be used. If the stone is not at once grasped m this way, the manceuvre must be repeated, turning the blades slightly first to one side and then to the other. If this does not succeed, the plan recommended by Civiale may be tried : The closed lithotrite is used as a sound, and the situa- tion of the stone determined. The beak of the instrument is then very gently turned towards the opposite side of the bladder, and the blades opened. The open instrument is then turned back again to the side on which the Fig. S90.—Civiale's Method of Seizing the Stone behind tlie Prostate. stone lies, and the blades closed. If the stone is not seized by either of these plans, it is possible that it is lying in a pouch behind the prostate. To reach it in this situation the handle of the lithotrite must be depressed between the patient's thighs, and the instrument turned round, so that the beak is directed towards the floor of the bladder (Fig. 890). It may then be carefully opened and closed again. This manoeuvre is very frequently necessary in patients above 60, in order to crush the last fragments towards the end of the operation. If the stone be round and smooth it may be grasped only after many failures ; the calculus slipping away between the blades of the instrument, and being merely scraped by them. The essential conditions during this stage of the operation are that the utmost gentleness be used in all movements of the lithotrite, that the female blade be kept as steady as possible with the left hand, while the instrument is opened and shut by moving the male blade only, which, from its hghtness, can be manipulated with great delicacy, and lastly, that the operator should picture to himself with each movement of the instrument the exact position in which the blades are placed.