DISEASES OF THE MIDDLE EAR. 579 , 2. n 4.o,.^Ti is -1 verv common disease and a fre- "T""'' oTd^^^r TWO —» - oicHbed : the dry moist Dr,J quent cause ot deatuess. iwo vdiieuK . n mucous membrane ^fhtakes Dlace the air in the tympanum soon becomes absorbed, and the C = is the c— c= sLalled Eustachian The treatment of chronic catarrh is usually not very satisfactory The geneia hea th" attended to, and the catarrh of the P^^arynx reheved by ast^mgen applications, as nitrate of silver, glycerine of tannm &c^ itnttrX the the air must be blown into the tympanum at intervals V PoMze^ s bag, t^^^ Eustachian catheter, or by forced expiration with the ^^^^-^^^ ^°^f. , Lans the strain on the membrane is relieved and Astringent injections into the tympanum by means of the catheter have been used, but their beneficial effect is somewhat uncertain. Acute Purulent CatarrH is commonly a sequela of scarlet fever or measles. The symptoms may be acute like those of the acute non-purulen f" m lady deLLd, or perforation of the membrane may occur without any acute symptoms having manifested themselves, the first symptom being the'discharge th)m the ear. After the pus has thus found exit the opemng m the membrane may close and recovery take place, but m scrofulous children t^ie suppuration may become chronic. It is very important m all cases of scarlet fever or measles, especially in scrofulous children, to keep a careful watch on the ear, as in many cases the complete destruction of the membrana tympani and loss of the ossicles might be prevented by early incision. _ Chronic Purulent Catarrh may arise as a sequel of acute inflammation of the middle ear, or as the result of extension from without m dittuse in- flammation of the meatus. In these cases the membrana tympani is always perforated. The symptoms are merely loss or dulness of hearing, with a chronic muco-purulent discharge from the ear, often having an extremely offensive smell. The consequences of purulent catarrh are frequently serious, and sometimes fatal. If unchecked the disease may lead to necrosis of the small bones, or to their becoming aukylosed and fixed by adhesions to such an extent as to be useless. The serious comphcations described below are " especially apt to occur if the escape of the discharge is prevented, as by a mass of granulation tissue blocking the perforation in the membrane. In some cases the disease spreads to the bone surrounding the tympanum, and may • cause extensive caries or necrosis. It is especially under these circumstances that facial paralysis may result from implication of the seventh nerve, as it lies in the aqueduct of Eallopius. In the Treatment of Chronic Purulent Catarrh of the middle ear, the essential objects aimed at are complete removal of the purulent secretion as soon as it forms, and prevention of its decomposition. As the secretion diminishes, P P 2