7°° DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. forms : 1, Ranula ; 2, Dermoid Cyst; and 3,13ursal Cyst. iodofonn Tbc records of excision of the tongue were at one time so unBatis- tactory, that some Surgeons have doubted the propriety of performing the operation ; but when we remcral)er the terrible fate of the patient if the disei.so be allowed to run its course, and that cases of apparent cure, althou-.h excepLiona , are not unknown, there is no doubt that the operation is not only justihable but advisable. The hope of improvement in the results seems to lie hrst m early recognition of the disease, so that it may be removed before ti,e glands are affected ; and secondly, if tliis period be passed, in free removal of the diseased organ with the whole of the lymphatic glands which receive lymph from it, if this be possible. The fact that epithelioma seldom recurs ia the viscera encourages us to attempt the removal of the affected glands when- ever their situation is such that the operation can be safely undertaken If those cases are included in the statistics in which, in addition to the tongue, parts of the lower jaw are removed, the death-rate is necessarily higher : thus of 75 cases operated upon in University College Hospital between 1881 and 1890, IT) died, giving a mortality of 20 per cent. Elfect of the Removal of the Tongue on Speech.—Although distinct- ness of articulation is necessarily aff"ected for a time by these operations on the tongue, yet it is usually completely restored when only the anterior third or half is removed ; the tissue of the organ recovering its normal mobility with remarkable facility. Even after removal of the whole of the tongue, the power of deglutition is preserved, and that of articulation, although at first somewhat imperfect, eventually returns, so that the patient is able to speak so distinctly that strangers would not be aware of the loss he had sustained. Amongst the tortures to which Christian martyrs were subjected in the early ages, and the punishments which have been inflicted on heretics, " cutting out the tongue " was one of the most barbarous. Martyrologists in describing this horrible mutilation have remarked with wonder, that, although it was practised with the view of depriving the sufferers of the power of speech, yet it often failed in its effect, and those who had been subjected to it were able to speak afterwards as plainly as before. This they have attributed to direct miraculous intervention. But, as modern Surgery has shown that the power of speech returns equally, whether a cancerous tongue have been extirpated by the knife of the Surgeon, or a heretical tongue by that of the executioner, we must look upon the return of speech rather as a physiological fact, than as a miracle specially wrought for the benefit of those mutilated by way of religious persecution. Diseases of the Floor of the Mouth,—Solid Tumours are occa- sionally met with in this region. Epithelioma being the most common. Adenoma also may occur in connexion with the salivary glands. Navi also have been observed in this situation. These tumours require removal by irregular operations, varying according to the size and situation of the growth. For these proceedings no special directions can be given. In removing such tumours, when situated under or by the side of the tongue, the knife must necessarily be used with much caution. It must, however, be borne in mind that, if these growths cannot be reached from the inside of the mouth, they may be got at by incision through the mylo-hyoid region, where there is but a slight thickness of soft parts between the surface and the floor of the mouth. Cystic Tumours in the Floor of the Mouth may occiu" under three