1.7 ADENOMA TA—MOLES. Osteomata of the Skin have been described. They are always atheroma- tous cysts, the walls of which have undergone calcification, and occasionally true ossification in parts (Vol. I., p. 1007). Adenomata of the Skin arising both from the sweat-glands and the seba- ceous follicles have occasionally been met with, but they are very rare. When arising in connexion with the sebaceous follicles they form lobulated masses of some size, which after growing for many years may ulcerate and resemble epithelioma in appearance. On microscopic examination, they are found to be composed of a structure resembling a number of greatly enlarged follicles bound together by a vascular connective tissue. In hypertrophy of the sweat-glands, or adenoma sudoriparum, the growth lies just beneath the corium, and may form a firm flat circular mass from a quarter to half an inch in thickness and sometimes reaching one inch in diameter. The skin is slightly raised over it and may be marked by the openings of the dilated glands. Microscopic examination shows the tumour to be composed of convoluted tubes, exactly resembling normal sweat-glands, but usually of greater diameter, between which is a small amount of new fibrous tissue. The fat is pushed on one side by the growth, but not invaded by it. It causes no pain, and has httle tendency to ulcerate. It seems probable, how- ever, that in some cases the epithehum may proliferate more rapidly, burst through the membrana propria of the tubules and invade the surrounding tissues. In this way, according to Klebs, a simple tubular adenoma of the. sweat-glands merges into rodent cancer. Atheromatous and other Cysts have already been described (Vol. I., p. 1000 et seq.), and Naevi will be described in a subsequent chapter with diseases of the blood-vessels. Moles are pigmented patches of variable size in the skin, and always congenital. They are often raised above the surface of the surrounding skin and covered with hair, sometimes long and coarse. They cannot properly be classed as tumours, as they show no tendency to grow out of proportion to the rest of the body. In later life, however, a mole not unfrequently foi'ms the starting-point of a tumour. It may gradually increase in size, becoming more and more prominent, and sometimes pedunculated. It may thus form a tumour, usually lobulated or papillary, and more or less darkly pigmented. Finally, from the friction of the clothes it may ulcerate and become very troublesome. A mole also not uncommonly forms the seat of origin of a sarcoma, or more rarely of a squamous carcinoma. A mole usually requires no treatment unless it become affected by one of the complications above mentioned, when it must at once be excised. The Surgeon is often consulted as to the possibility of removing a disfiguring mole from the face. There is no method by which this can be done without leaving a scar in its place, but if the patient prefer this to the pigmented patch, the mole may sometimes be excised with the knife. The healing may be hastened and contraction pre- vented by covering the raw surface with skin grafts, apphed in the manner described on p. 278, Vol. I. In a case of extensive hairy mole coverino- the right half of the forehead, Morrant Baker obtained an excellent result by shaving off the mole to such a depth as not completely to remove the whole thickness of the corium. Contraction was in this way prevented and those parts of the scar in which the hair grew again were subsequently treated with nitric acid. VOL. II.