739 OPENING THE WINDPIPE. CHAPTER LVIII. OPERATIONS ON THE AIR-TUBE AND ON THE CHEST. LARYNGOTOMY AND TBACHEOTOMY. The windpipe may require to be opened to allow the formation of a Bmporary breathing aperture, in consequence of obstruction of the larynx t)y causes that are speedily removable ; or it may be necessary to establish a lermanent opening in those forms of chronic laryngeal disease, in which the ibstruction depends upon alterations of structure which are not remediable. Among the conditions requiring a temporary aperture may be mentioned aU jute inflammatory aflFections of the larynx that give rise to obstructive idema of the glottis ; also traumatic conditions, such as the impaction^ of masses of food in the gullet, inducing asphyxia, and not capable of being mmediately removed ; scalds of the rima glottidis ; the presence of foreign bodies in the air-passage ; and oedema of the glottis from wounds of the thyro- hyoid membrane. The establishment of a permanent aperture in the air- passage is required in chronic diseases of the larynx, attended with thickening if the mucous membrane, with abscess, or with necrosis of the cartilages, and cases of tumour of the larynx. Opening the Windpipe in Membranous Laryngitis.—By membranous laryngitis is meant any form of inflammation of the larynx, accompanied by a eoagulable exudation from the mucous membrane, forming a false membrane upon it, whether diphtheritic or not. It is unnecessary here to enter into the question of the varieties of membranous inflammation of the pharynx and larynx. At the present day the presence of the bacillus described by Klebs and Loffler in the membranous exudation can alone be considered certain evidence ^hat the condition in question is diphtheritic. Mixed infection is common, the liacillus being accompanied by streptococci and staphylococci, and it seems "ortain that in some instances, indistinguishable clinically from true diphtheria, the inflammation is due to streptococci and staphylococci only. Membranous laryngitis, from whatever cause arising, is a most fatal disease in childhood, at least 90 per cent, of those attacked dying, and a considerable proportion of the minority that escape owing their lives to the performance of tracheotomy. In acute catarrhal laryngitis, unattended with membranous f xudation, tracheotomy is scarcely ever needed, the disease yielding to milder lethods of treatment. Owing to the frequent failure of tracheotomy to save the life of the patient m membranous laryngitis, the propriety of the operation was at one time digputed. It is now universally acknowledged that the operation should be performed in all cases in which the obstruction is evideutly in the larynx, care ''cing taken to distinguish the hurried breathing and dyspnoea due to extension 'f the inflammation to the bronchi and lungs from the lahoured breathing of 'rue laryngeal obstruction. In diphtheria tracheotomy must necessarily fail to 3 B 2