793 SCIRRHUS OF THE BREAST. suspected when the tumour is uniform in outline, free from lobulation, rapid m growth, and commences after the age of thirty-five. From cancer it is distin- niished by its softness, its more rapid growth, its more definite circumscription and the absence of glandular infection and of retraction of the nipple bhould the sarcoma from the first infiltrate the surrounding tissues, the diagnosis becomes much more difficult, as the growth closely resembles some of the softer forms of cancer. ■■ n p i The Treatment of Sarcoma of the Breast is early and free removal. Nothing else can be of the slightest use. Before commencing the operation it is well to obtain the patient's consent to complete removal of the breast if necessary. The tumour may then be exposed and dissected out. If it be firm and distinctly encapsuled, it may be removed without taking away the whole mamma, the capsule, if possible, being removed with it ; but if it be soft, ill- defined, or very vascular, it is safer to remove the whole gland at the same time, 'should recurrence take place, the breast, if not already taken away, must be fully removed, and the operation may be repeated as often as local recurrence takes place, so long as there is no evidence of secondary growths in the viscera. Cancer of the Breast.—All forms of cancer are met with in connexion with the female breast. Glandular or spheroidal- colled carcinoma is by far the most common, and is met with in its three varieties, scirrhus, enceplialoid, 5ind colloid. Of these, scirrhus is very common, encephaloid much less frequently met with, and colloid very rare. Columnar carcinoma may arise in the epithelium of a duct, and forms the tumour known as duct or villous cancer. Squamous carcinoma occasionally attacks the skin covering the nipple, and can hardly be regarded as a tumour of the breast. Cancer of the breast, whatever form it assume, is invariably primary : it may ail'ect one lobe only or be infiltrated into the whole gland, and it may commence in or immediately beneath the nipple, or so early affect the skin and spread so widely in it as to appear to have originated in that structure. Most frequently one breast only is affected, but in some cases both are implicated. Hard Glandular Carcinoma or Scirrhus is the form of cancer which is commonly met with in the breast. It occurs in three forms : 1, Nodular or circumscribed scirrhus ; 2, Infil- trating or diffuse scirrhus ; 8, Atrophying or atrophic scirrhus. 1. Nodular or Circumscribed Scirrhus is the most common form. It (!ommences as a hard circumscribed tumour, at first of small size and often of rounded form, indolent in character and with little or no pain. It is at first readily movable, but careful examination shows that it implicates the substance of the gland, and cannot be separated from it. Occasionally it may be situated in an outlying lobe, and appear to be attached to the rest of the gland Fig. 7S5.—Nodular Seirrlms of the Breast, showing deep reti-aetioQof the Nipple.