INTESTINAL OnSTRUCTION. l)avoxysms of sri])ing pain occu,-. Ju Ckrom- !nh,ss.,,r.pfu>n theiv i« paroxysmal t2:n])ino' pain. ' r, The Character of the Vomiting.-ln Inlernal siranyulatmi the vomiting sets n. at once, is very Ire.jaent and profuse, and very soon Cco.ne stei^oraceous. In Volvulus of Iho ijrmt wlnlnu it sets in later, is eldo „ proh.se, and most frequently does not become stercoraceous. In iZZ and it appears early and gradually increases frequency, but may not become stercoraceous for many days In ll m/^..s^....^,/,«,^ vomiting is often not a very prominent symptom' and does no become feculent for some days. In all (Jh-om, obslrmliom vomitin^. is ht delayed, moderate m amount, and does not become feculent until afte"r two or three weeks. It is usually kept in check without difficulty by proper treat ment and feeding. ^ ^ i i Feculent vomiting, though one of the most characteristic symptoms of mechanical obstruction of the intestines, is occasionally present when apparently no such condition exists, disappearing after a time under the in- fluence of opium, and, as above stated, in some varieties of actual obstruction it is altogether wanting. 6. The Duration and Degree of Constipation.—In Internal shwujala- hen and Tmpaded rjall-sione the constipation is complete, neither fteces nor flatus passing, nor, except in a few cases of volvulus, is there any sense of a desire to go to stool. In Acuk intussusception there is marked tenesmus, and blood and mucus, sometimes mixed with some fsecal matter, are discharged. In these cases the constipation is sudden in persons previously regular in their bowels, and there is a sense of its dependence on a fixed cause. In Vnlvvlus of the sigmoid flexure, the complete arrest of flatus and fjeces comes on suddenly, but there has been a previous history of chronic constipation. In Clironic obstructiofi from stricture the constipation is complete, but is gradually developed as an aggravation of previous partial obstruction. Unless the stricture be in the rectum there is rarely any tenesmus. In Fcacal impaction the constipation is not always complete, flatus occasionally passing. There is usually a sense of a desire to defecate. In Chronic intussusception constipation is the exception ; there may be tenesmus with the passage of blood and mucus, but this is by no means constant, as in the acute form. 7. The Physical Examination of the Belly.—(a.) Inspection.—The chief points to be observed are, the distension of the abdomen, the form it has assumed, the appearance of coils of distended gut, and peristaltic movements. Distension of the Abdomen.—In Internal strangulation it rarely develops before the third or fourth day, and is seldom extreme. In Folvutus of f/ifi great intestine it appears from the commencement, and forms one of the most marked features of the case. It may be so great as to interfere with respira- tion and in this way cause death. In Impacted gall-stone distension is slight or wanting, and the same is the case in Acute intassusceptmi. In Chronic obstruct ion from stricture it gradually increases, and after one or two weeks may become excessive, causing much distress. In Chronic in- tussusception it is absent, unless the obstruction is complete. The Torm of the Abdomen.—When the obstruction is in the small intes- tine and acute, the distension is usually, in the early stages, most marked in the epigastric, umbilical, and hypogastric regions, the flanks being less dis- tended. In obstructions low down in the great gut the distended colon on