GALACTOGELE. 769 Rnf Fow «nph pasps have been recorded. Should the nvto^^P^tll^'child^ breast and hot fomentations . pul on but it is useless to persevere in such means if no secretion takes place "EteL^rstretion of Milk, or Galactorrh«a.-Galactorrh^ orr^^rat an early period of lactation, or consist rather in a persistent secretion • n^ite JtrwitLrawal of the child from the breast. In the formei^ con- iit on there may be considerable swelling and distension of the breast vMth a nstlnt flow of milk from the nipple. Birkett quotes ^ -e reco^^^^^^^^^^^ Eiesembera-, in which this condition occurred m a woman of thnty m tmee stces'L pregnancies. In the last the child -s not even pu 0 th^-st but at the end of two weeks the secretion was so abundant that it soaked the clothes and even filled her shoes to such an extent that it was necessary to empty them periodically. In the second class of cases the secretion of m Ik has been known to continue for from two to five years after weaning the child. Birkett states that this is usually associated with some uterme disease, and m some cases it is due to prolonged suckling. r r ^ The Treatment of galactorrhcBa consists in the external application ot clycerine of belladonna, and in the internal administration of sahne purgatives in some extremely severe cases iodine or iodide of potassium has been found to produce a rapid and marked effect. In extreme cases the patient may be considerably reduced in strength before the discharge is arrested. Galactocele.—The term " galactocele " has been applied to three pathological conditions, of the existence of two of which grave doubts must be entertained. The true galactocele is caused by the obstruction of a duct during lactation ; the obstructed duct becoming dilated behind the point at which the flow of milk is arrested, and thus forming a cyst of considerable size. It fluctuates distinctly, and is usually seated superficially near the nipple. The tumour appears during the first few weeks of lactation, without the signs of inflamma- tion and without pain. It continues to increase slowly, and may reach an enormous size, as in the well known case recorded by Scarpa, which m two months attained such a magnitude that the mamma rested on the knee when the patient was in the sitting position. Ten pints of pure milk were removed in this case by tapping. Suppuration followed the treatment, but the patient ultimately recovered, and afterwards bore another child and nursed it without any return of the disease. As Billroth points out, this condition is very rare, most authors quoting the same cases, and few adding to the number. The second form of galactocele rests upon the authority of Yelpeau. ihe patient, aged thirty-fou», had been confined fifteen months before, and had weaned the child for six weeks. At the end of this time the right breast became swollen to double its natural size, without redness. There was some pain, and the whole gland felt spongy. On puncturing it with a bistoury, milk escaped "which evidently came from the meshes of the connective tissue." The evidence here is evidently insufficient to establish the existence of such a condition. In the third form of galactocele the milk is said to have undergone various changes, becoming butter-like, cheese-like, or inspissated. These tumours have been met with late in lactation, or even independently of it, and there seems little doubt that many such cases were really chronic abscesses. VOL. II. 3 D