SUPRAPUBIC LITHOTOMY. io47 be guided by the position of the stone and the character of the Ponch in which ?t lies If th stone be found in a deep pouch behind the prostate it rnay be nnSle to m-ize it out with a narrow scoop, as in a case successfully tieated by C^ston BCne The removal of a stone from a sacculus which commum- "h the bladder by a small opening is attended with ^^^^ K an attempt be made to enlarge the opening by incision the greatest care ^^u U take'n not to perforate the bladder. The disproj3ortion " t^^^^ ^ze of the calculus and that of the opening of the calculus may be such that the removal of the calculus entire is out of the question Riymgton and Hurry Fenwick have successfuHy adopted the expedient of breaking up the stone with a chisel and mallet, and removing the fragments ^ep^^tdy. The dangers after the operation are various. Infiltration of urme in the loose tissue around the bladder is perhaps the most serious and fatal. It is best prevented by disturbing this tissue as little as possible during the operation, especial care being taken not to make a cavity with the finger between the symphysis pubis and the bladder. If the wound be not closed too tightly and if good drainage be maintained the danger of infiltration is veiy small. Secondary haemorrhage is very rare, and should it occur it is the con- sequence of ulceration of one of the large veins superficial to the bladder. Septicemia and pyemia are not more common than in other operations on the urinary organs, and are best prevented by the strictest attention to anti- septic details during the operation, and the adoption of some antiseptic treat- ment afterwards. The formation of a urinary fistula rarely occurs. The State of the Kidneys influences the result of lithotomy in the adult more directly than any other condition. If these organs be sound, the patient will usually recover ; hence in children, in whom the complication of renal disease rarely exists, lithotomy is very successful, even though the operation is proportionately far more severe in them than in adults. If, on the other hand, the kidneys be extensively diseased, the patient will commonly die, even though he have been operated upon with the utmost skill. The condition of the kidneys that is especially fatal has been described in Chapter LXV. Mortality.—The older statistics are of little value, partly because until the recent revival of the operation it was undertaken only when the size of the stone or some other complication made the perinseal rnethods im- possible, and partly because the older operations were undertaken without the advantages of antiseptics, and without the present means of raising the bladder and its peritoneal investment above the pubes, and usually without efficient drainage. Dulles of New York, a strong advocate of the operation, collected a total of 465 cases in both sexes ; of these 135 died, or 1 in 3-44. He found that for calculi under one ounce it contrasted very unfavourably with the lateral, for those between one or two ounces there was little difier- ence, whilst for calculi above two ounces it gave by far the best results. Of 124 cases operated on since 1879 collected by Dennis of New York, only 18 died, or 1 in 7 ; but of these deaths 7 might fairly be eliminated as having had no direct connection with the operation. MacCormac collected a total of 91 operations performed in this country from January 1st, 1885, to March, 1887. Of these 57 were adults, of whom 18 died, or 1 in 3*1. Only one patient died from peritonitis, and none from urinary extravasation or pyemia. The cause of death in one case was rupture of the rectum by the bag. In 33 cases the patients were under 15, and not one died. The stones in the adults varied