INTESTINAL OUST RUCTION. latter, after beinj;- cleaned, is returned. Finally, the sutures in the abdominal wall, which are already in situ, are tied. After the operation, the abdomen must be well supported by a bandatre anri the knees must be bent over a pillow. Opium must be continuously adniinis tered, and nothing but ice and barley-water allowed for twenty-four to forty' eight hours. Rectal feeding is sometimes necessary, and if there is much collapse, rectal injections of hot water have been found useful. It sometimes happens that the patient's condition is so critical that the operation of laparotomy as above described is contra-indicated. Under these circumstances, enterotomy should be performed. This consists essentially in opening the first loop of distended bowel which presents itself on inakin*' a small opening into the abdomen. The incision may be made, as originaUv recommended by Nelaton, in the right iliac region, but more often a short incision is made in the middle line below the umbilicus. The first piece of distended gut that appears is attached to the edges of the wound with sutures, and opened by a small incision. Although this treatment can only be regarded as intended to relieve urgent symptoms, it has in some instances been followed by permanent rehef. In the very urgent cases in which enterotomy is indi- cated, no general anaesthetic should be used, but, if necessary, cocaine may be injected at the seat of the incision as advised by Greig Smith. Special Treatment of the different varieties of Acute Intestinal Obstruction.—In cases of internal strangulatioji, the constricting band should, if possible, be freely removed between two ligatures; if the constriction is produced by a patent Meckel's diverticulum, or the vermiform appendix, the gut may be simply released, and if the constricting tube be removed, its end must be closed with Lembert's sutures, or by a single ligature, if it is small. When the gut is strangulated through an aperture, this may need to be enlarged before reduction is possible, and it should then, if circumstances permit, be closed by one or more sutures. If volvulus of the sigmoid flexure can be definitely diagnosed, it is probable that the best treatment consists in performing left lumbar colotomy, as there is not much hope of reducing the volvulus by abdominal section. If, how- ever, the nature of the case has only been discovered by means of an explora- tory laparotomy, reduction should be attempted, and has in rare instances been successfully accomplished in volvulus of the sigmoid flexure, caecum, and small intestine. If necessary, the distended coil of intestine may be emptied by an incision, and further attempts made to undo the twist. If this be found impossible, a loop of distended intestine above the obstruction should be drawn into the wound, and enterotomy performed. If a gall-stone be found, an attempt may be made to push it on into the large intestine, as has been successfully done by Glutton. Failing this, the stone should be cut out by a longitudinal incision in the gut; if the latter appear healthy the incision may be made directly over the stone, but if the gut be damaged the incision should be made in the dilated part above. The incision in the gut is closed with sutures in the ordinary way. Removal of the stone by an incision is probably safer than attempting to break it up by puncture with a fine needle as has been suggested. If the case be one of stricture of the small intestine, which has suddenly become blocked, an artificial anus should be made above the obstruction, or intestinal anastomosis performed (p. 924). The conditions are usually too