J8 SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. Papillomata of the Skin, or Warts, consist of elongated papillae, covered h)' strata of thickened and hardened cuticle, usually situated about the hands and face, and chiefly aflecting young people ; they appear in many cases to be simple overgrowths of the cutaneous structures, coming and going without any evident cause. In other cases they are more permanent, becoming hardened and dark in colour, and contiiuiing perhaps through life. The Treatment of warts is sufficiently shnple. They may readily be destroyed by the application of caustics or astringents ; among the most use- ful of these, I have found the concentrated acetic acid and the tincture of the sesquichloride of iron. Warts usually disappear rapidly under the influence of salicyhc collodion (see Vol. I., p. 1083). The remarkable fact has recently been pointed out by Colrat of Lyons that the internal administration of sulphate of magnesium often causes warts to disappear rapidly. For children 2 or o grains, and for adults half a drachm, should be given three times a day. Crocker, who has used this treatment with satisfactory results, recommends that the dose of the salt should be sufficient to produce two or three evacuations a day. Corns consist of thickened masses of epithelium accumulated on those points on which undue pressure or friction has been exercised. They result from an overgrowth of the epithelium, consequent upon the abnormal stimu- lation to which the part is exposed. This is accompanied by some enlarge- ment of the papillae. The mass of epithelium is hard, dry, and scaly. In the central parts it may lead to some atrophy of the papillae from pressure, and consequently the horny mass assumes a conical form, with its apex downwards, pressing on the sensitive cutis beneath, and thus causing considerable pain. When the corn is situated in places where the secretions of the skin accumu- late and keep it moist, as between the toes, the excessive epithehum forms a soft pulpy mass which is easily removed, and the enlargement of the papilla is then very evident. . ■ ^^ ^ The Treatment of ordinary corns consists m shaving or rasping them down so as to prevent the deep layers of cuticle, retained by the indurated super- hcial ones, fi-om giving rise to pain by pressure on the papdla of the cutis The cuticle may previously be softened by dressing the toe with wet Imt covered with gutta-percha tissue. The thickened epidermis may also be removed by the application of one of the numerous popular remedies known as " corn solvents." The best of them is that already mentioned (see Vol. I., n 1033:) under the name of Solvine. It must be applied daily for a few days, at the end of which time the thickened epidermis wiU peel off in a cake, leaving almost normal skin beneath. Relief may also be afforded by removing all pressure fi'om the corn, by attention to the shape of the shoe, and by wearing a niece of soft leather or amadou, having a hole cut in the centre into which ?he corn projects. A soft corn between the toes is best treated as follow^ : clear away the sodden epithehum with soap and water ; wash the mterdigital space w th tincture of belladonna and let it dry ; then apply " soIvme to the com The toes may be separated by means of a small piece of cotton-wool mdstened with tincture of belladonna, which will eflFectually cheek perspii;a- Uon Sometimes the beUadonna causes eczema ; its use must then at once he Ibandoned, and the toes washed twice a day with a concentrated solution of Caustics should never be apphed to ordinaiy corns ; injurious onsequ nces often being produced by these agents, especially in elderly