MYOSITIS OSSIFICANS. 5^3 Treatment—When the ganolion is small, as on the back of the wrist, it may commonly be got rid of by being ruptured by forcible pressure with the thumb, or by a sharp blow, or by being tightly compressed by means of a .oin wrapped up in lint, and firmly strapped upon the swelling. If it do not disappear in this way, the best plan is to puncture it subcutaneously by means of a valvular opening, to squeeze out its contents, scarify the interior of the cyst, and employ pressure. If the ganglion give rise to much pain and weakness, and cannot be made to disappear by the use of the means just indicated, it may usually be very conveniently and safely obliterated by pass- ing two threads of carbolised silk or horse hair through it, dressing it anti- ^optically, and leaving it in for four or five days, until sufficient inflammation lias been induced for the obliteration of the cyst. Should these means fail, it may be dissected out—a procedure which is attended with some risk of inflammation extending up the sheath of the tendon, unless perfect asepsis is maintained. I have on several occasions performed this operation, without any troublesome consequences ensuing. Cartilaginous Tumours are occasionally met with in connexion with the sheaths of tendons. A specimen of this nature is preserved in the Museum of University College. It consists of numerous small lobules of hyahne cartilage cQclosed in a fibrous capsule. It was removed by Marcus Beck from the palmar aspect of the index finger of a young woman ; the tumour was firmly adherent to the slieath of the tendons, which was not opened, however, during the operation. DISEASES OF MUSCLES. The voluntary muscles are not often the seat of primary disease of any kind. Patty Degeneration of muscle, as met with in surgical practice, is usually the result of want of use. In such cases, the muscular fibres are merely a trophied, and the fat, which resembles normal adipose tissue, is accumulated between them. Such a condition is recovered from if the cause of the want of use be removed. True fatty degeneration, in which the protoplasm of the muscular fibres undergoes conversion into fat-granules, is not common in the \ oluntary muscles, except as a result of complete separation from a healthy nerve centre. Inflammatory Affections are usually secondary, the muscle l)eing implicated by extension from surrounding parts. Diffuse inflammation of the voluntary muscles with disseminated abscesses has been observed in pyaemia. Abscesses, as we have already seen in psoas abscess, may enter the <heaths of muscles and cause considerable destruction of tissue. " Rheumatic inflammation " of muscles is met with as lumbago, intercostal rheumatism, , <Scc., but of the exact nature of the process we know little. Myositis Ossiflcans is a rare affection characterized by a gradual and progressive development of bone in the muscles. A skeleton from a case of this disease is preserved in the Museum of the College of Surgeons, whilst amongst recorded cases may be mentioned those of C^sar Hawkins, Helferich, Godlee, Lendon of Adelaide, and Sympson of Lincoln. The ossification occurs in the connective tissue between the muscle fibres, which undergo atrophy. Myositis ossificans is a disease of early life ; according to Stonham commencing often between two and three years, and in the majority of cases before fifteen"! There is, however, no evidence of heredity in the recorded cases. The disease