^^7o DISEASES OF THE UliETHRA. lachrymatiou. The chemosis sets in early, and is very severe • and nnl„ treatment aflbrd speedy relief, the consequences are most disastrous to ;isfon ^rrmW.-rhe prevention of purulent ophthalmia in new-born children a, the result of infection by the vaginal discharges of the mother, should consis in the use of a vaginal douche of 1 in 2000 perchloride of mercury As soon as possible after birth the child's eyes should be washed with weak boric lotion and a few drops of a 2 per cent, solution of nitrate of silver introduced into the conjunctival sac, as recommended by Cr(^d6. For the rehef of gonorrhoea! ophthalmia active measures are required. The patient must be confined to a dark room, the bowels must be kept regular, and a moderate diet allowed • much relief may be given by the extraction of a small amount of blood from the temple by leeches. The most useful topical agent that we possess is the nitrate of silver. This should be freely applied with a camel's-hair pencil in the strength of 15 or 20 grains to the ounce of distilled water, and the eye then washed out with weak salt solution. The conjunctiva may be rendered insensible by cocaine before the application. The lids should be kept covered by compresses dipped in weak alum lotion, and the purulent discharge, as it accu- mulates, carefully washed away by tepid alum injections. Instead of alum, boric acid may be used with great eflFect, and lately, a very weak solution of perchloride of mercury (1 in 5000) has been tried with considerable success. In doing this, great care must be taken that none of the discharge come into contact with the eyes of the Surgeon or nurses, as it is highly contagious, and will almost to a certainty produce the disease ; instances are recorded in which, in this way, the attendant's vision has been destroyed. If the chemosis be considerable, the swelling must be incised ; and, as the inflammation sub- sides, belladonna lotions may be employed with advantage, and the use of the nitrate of silver and other lotions gradually discontinued. Great care must be taken to prevent infection of the other eye when only one is affected. It may be covered with a compress, or a watch-glass may be placed over it and secured by plaster or collodion. Gonorrhoea! Sclerotitis is by no means of such frequent occurrence as the conjunctival inflammation ; when it happens, it will be found to be associated with gonorrhoeal rheumatism, and not unfrequently with inflam- mation of the testicle, occurring apparently in individuals in whom there is a tendency to affection of the fibrous tissues. This disease is evidently of con- stitutional origin, as it cannot possibly arise from local contagion ; it is attended with the ordinary signs of sclerotic inflammation, and is usually accompanied by some degree of iritis. The constitutional Treatment is that for gonorrhoeal rheumatism. Locally the eye must be protected from light, and a few drops of atropine solution put in occasionally. If there is much pain, blood may be taken from the temple by cupping or leeches. Gonorrhoeal Inflammation of the Nose, attended with profuse sup- puration, the result of direct infection, is a complication that I have more than once had occasion to observe. The swelling of the organ is con- siderable, the tenderness great, and the discharge abundant ; a condition, indeed, of the Schneiderian membrane that seems analogous to the inflam- mation of the conjunctiva just described. The Treatment that I have found to succeed best, consists in fomentations, followed by astringent lotions or injections.