766 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. number is even the glands are arranged one above the other in the norm i line on each side. These glands usually secrete milk during lactation According to Klebs axillary breasts are of two kinds. In one a Kenuin supernumerary breast, with nipple and areola, is found at the anterior bordor of the axilla ; the other variety consists in a more or less complete separation of a piece of the normal mamma from the rest of the gland. The true axillary breast is smaller than the natural gland, but secretes milk after pregnunJ The importance of the second variety is in connexion with the occasional development of simple or malignant glandular tumours at a distance from the main gland. Supernumerary glands in distant situations have been described on the outer side of the thigh, in the groin and on the back. The most celebrated case is that recorded by Robert. The accessory mamma was situated on the outer part of the thigh about four inches below the great trochanter. Until the patient's first pregnancy it was supposed to be a naevus, but at this time it enlarged with the normal breasts, and reached the size of half a citron. After delivery it secreted milk, and the child was suckled at it. The mother of the woman had three breasts, all on the chest. Congenital Absence of the Nipple is extremely rare ; in fact it is doubtful if it has ever been met with except in conjunction with absence of the mamma. Multiple Nipples are extremely rare ; two to each breast have been met with, each with ducts opening into it. NEURALGIA. Neuralgia of the Breast or Mastodynia.—The term " neuralgia of the breast" is properly applied only to those cases in which no inflammatory induration or morbid growth can be recognised as the source of the pain. Such cases are not common, at least in this country and in Germany, but from the large number recorded by Yelpeau it would seem to be of more frequent occurrence in France. The only symptom is the pain. This is severe and paroxysmal, radiating in all directions from the breast: sometimes extending to the neck and head, the shoulder and arm, and even, it is said, as far as the hip and lower extremity. The pain is usually aggravated during the menstrual period; it is sometimes distinctly periodic, more rarely persistent. There is generally marked cutaneous hyperassthesia over the affected breast, and deep pressure is less painful than a light pinch of the skin. There may be slight heat and fulness of the gland, but this is never a marked symptom. The severe pain and the mental anxiety caused by the dread of cancer may seriously impair the patient's health. Neuralgia of the breast is usually met with during the period of activity of the uterine organs, but Velpeau states that he has seen it as early as the twelfth year and as late as the sixtieth. It is not definitely associated with any constitutional condition, but it is most common in.nervous or hysterical subjects. It is sometimes connected with some uterine disorder, but the rela- tion between the two is not sufficiently constant to justify a vaginal examina- tion unless there are manifest symptoms of functional or organic disease of the uterus. Sometimes the neuralgia seems to be dependent on anemia, and