TREATMENT OF TLEMOPIIILIA. rules of health, the neglect of which, by lowering his "condition," might favour the tendency to bleed. Legg especially recommends the use of cold baths of plain, sea, or chalybeate waters, residence in a dry air, and the use of warm clothing. The preparations of iron are usually given in a routine way, but it is doubtful if they have ever been of service in prevent- ing the hsemorrhages ; they certainly never have arrested them, though they may be of use in removing the anaemic state left after a copious bleeding. Ergot has been given during the bleeding in many cases, but without evident effect. The Local Treatment is that on which most dependence will necessarily be placed. It consists in the use of three means—viz., Pressure, Styptics, and Cold. Pressure is to be relied on only in one form of hsemophiliac bleeding—viz., the continuous htemorrhage from the socket of a tooth after extraction. In these cases the cavity should be cleared out and carefully plugged from the bottom by means of lint or agaric, the whole retained by means of a piece of cork and a gutta-percha cap to fit over the neighbouring teeth, and compressed by a bandage applied under the chin against those in the sound jaw. When the hemorrhage occurs from the soft parts, pressure must be used with great caution lest sloughing occur ; the integuments being extremely liable to give way extensively under very moderate pressure, large subcutaneous extravasa- tion developing at the same time, and thus increasing materially the danger of the case and the local mischief. Compression of the main artery of the limb is useless, and open to the objection that it may cause the development of ecchymoses and subcutaneous haemorrhages. St3rptics of all kinds have been used as a matter of course, and the per- chloride of iron has enjoyed especial favour. I have used and seen it used frequently, and can safely say that I have never seen any permanent benefit from its application in these cases. Indeed, great evil has often resulted from the inflammation excited by the application of styptics of any kind. The parts become swollen and slough, and as the sloughs separate the oozing may re- commence from the raw surface, and the same process has to be gone through agam. A. E. Wright has suggested the application of a one per cent, solution of calcmm chloride to which some fibrin-ferment, obtained by extracting washed fibrm with water, may be added ; or the styptic described in Yol I p 422 may be tried. ' The actual Cautery presents the same disadvantages as ordinary styptics It may temporarily arrest the bleeding, but inflammation is set up in the parts beyond the limit of the eschar, and this on separating leaves an extended ulceratmg surface which may bleed again, perhaps more freely than before Ihe contmued application of Cold appears to arrest hemophiHac bleedino- more effectually than any other means, and this circumstance would lead to the belief that the haemorrhage is due to want of contractility in the smaller arteries rather than to want of coagulabihty in the blood. The cold mav be applied by means of irrigation of iced water, as was done successfully by Marshall, or by the application of ice either directly to the part or laid upon a ponge covering it, as has been done in some of the cases of ha3moph ia occurring at University College Hospital. Simple water may be us^d or a G 2