475 SPINA BIFIDA: TREATMENT. pedunculated. If it have a narrow base, the prospect of cure by this means will be better, but before attempting any operation of this kind the tumour should be illuminated by strong transmitted light in order to ascertain the presence or absence of the spinal cord or nerves. Excision is open to the same objections as ligature. In fact, all plans ot treatment, by which the tumour is opened, and the air allowed to enter it, ai-e fraught with danger from inflammation of the meninges of the cord and convulsions, and, as a general rule, are to be condemned. Simple meningocele has been successfully treated by antiseptic drainage and by complete excision of the sac with antiseptic precautions. Of recent years also many attempts have been made, and in some instances with success, to treat meningo-myelocele by excision of the sac after separating and reducing the median portion with which the cord is blended. It is doubtful, however, whether the amount of success which has followed these operations justifies their repetition. The Committee of the Clinical Society, after a most exhaustive inquiry, report strongly in favour of injection of the sac as the most efficient mode of treatment. They record 26 cases in which aqueous or spirituous solutions of iodine were used, with 20 recoveries, 5 deaths, and 1 failure. These were probably carefully selected, and show a higher rate of success than could be expected if the treatment were more widely adopted. The simple iodine solutions have been almost completely abandoned since 1876 in favour of a special preparation introduced by Morton of Glasgow. It is composed of iodine gr. x,, iodide of potassium gr. xxx., and glycerine 33. The advantage of the glycerine solution seems to be that it diffuses extremely slowly, and consequently if the patient be kept recumbent and partially erect, it has little tendency to extend into the spinal canal. The quantity injected should be from half a drachm to a drachm and a half. The injection is best done by means of a screw syringe fitted with a fine platinum needle. If the sac be tense, the needle may first be introduced and a small quantity of the fluid drawn off, but in most cases the iodo-gljcerine solution may be directly injected. The puncture, which should be made through the thick part of the coverings at the lateral aspect of the tumour, must be carefully closed with lint and collodion. Should the sac continue to leak at the puncture, suppuration and meningitis are very likely to occur. After the injection a flannel bandage may be applied over some cotton-wool covering the tumour, and the child must be kept as iar as possible in the recumbent position. The Committee have collected 71 cases treated by this method, of which 35 recovered, 27 died, 5 were unrelieved, and 4 were improved. Since the publication of Morton's paper in 1877 his treatment has been very widely adopted, perhaps without sufficient care in the selection of proper cases. Amongst the 71 cases no fewer than 22 were suffering from paralysis, and only 17 are stated to have been free from complications. Moreover, in many of the fatal cases, death was not due directly to the treatment. Morton himself in 1885 stated that he was able to refer to 50 cases, 41 of which might be regarded as successful. It is evident, therefore, that when we consider the dangers accompanying other modes of treatment and the hopelessness of the disease in most cases if left to itself, the amount of success obtained is quite sufficient to justify the injection of the iodo-glycerine solution in all cases not evidently unsuited for any operative interference.