669 CIIEILOPLASTY. •ivoidecl if possible. In mauy cases the premaxiUa can be pushed back into 'position by firm pressure or by seizing it with strong forceps with guarded 1,lades, and it may be found advisable to fix it by a suture to the edges of the interval in the alveolus. Eather than completely remove it Fergusson s plan will often be found useful—viz., to make a small incision through the mucous membrane and with a small gouge to remove the incisor teeth and bone, leaving only a shell of periosteum and mucous membrane which can readily be pushed back into position, and will help to support and hold forward the lip. This part of the operation may conveniently be performed a week or >o before the lip itself is repaired. The operation for hare-hp occasionally fails. This may happen either in con- sequence of the child's health being in so unsatisfactory a state as to prevent union by the first intention ; or in consequence of the pins or sutures having been taken out too early, before firm cohesion has been efi'ected. In such L'ircumstances as these, an attempt might be made to unite the granulating edges by the re-introduction of the pins or sutures, and by firmly fixing the lip by means of collodion or plaster apphed as above described. Such attempts, however, rarely succeed ; should they not do so, it will usually be found most prudent to wait at least a month before taking any further steps, and then to pare the edges afresh and repeat the original operation. Congenital Transverse Fissures of the Cheeks, extending from the angle of the mouth to the anterior border of the masseter or up towards the malar bone, are occasionally met with. Their mode of origin has already been referred to (p. 662). In these malformations, which are of extremely rare occurrence, the ear on the affected side is imperfectly developed. As has been observed by Fergusson, the tragus is detached from the auricle, and is fixed to the cheek, where it forms a small lobulated appendage. The external ear generally is malformed, the helix being twisted and curled inwards. These malformations require to be treated on exactly the same principles, and with the same attention to details, as hare-hp ; union between the pared edges being effected by means of deep sutures of silver-wire or silk-worm gut and superficial ones of horsehair. Cheiloplasty.—Simple plastic operations are commonly practised on the lower lip for the removal of epithelioma, by cutting out a V-shaped piece of the lip, including the whole diseased structure, and then bringing together the opposite sides of the incision by sutures or hare-lip pins. These operations liave ah'eady been described and figured at p. 603, et seq. We shall consider here those cases in which it becomes necessary to repair more extensive loss of substance in the labial structures. The plan originaUy introduced by Chopart consisted, when it -^as the lower lip that was affected, in carrying an incision on each side of the diseased portion of the lip vertically downwards below the jaw, for a greater or less distance according to the amount to be removed, if necessary, even as far as the hyoid bone. The diseased part of the lip was then removed by a transverse incision below it. The square flap marked out by the two vertical incisions was next detached from above downwards. It was then brought up, and fixed to the pared edges of the remaining portion of the lip by points of suture ; the head being kept properly inclined, in order to prevent undue tension. After sufficient union had taken place to preserve the vitality of the flap, its lower attachments were divided. This operation was not very satisfactory in its results, as the new flap was apt to become