394 DISEASES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. mcnt immediately after operation, if more than the usual amount of bone has been removed, or if there should be any tendency to excessive looseness of the new joint after the third week. The patient can usually leave his bed at the end of the second week, and the arm must then be carried in a sling. It is deserving- of notice that after arthrcctomy of the elbow Glutton has altogether abandoned passive movement, keeping the joint absolutely fixed during the healing, with good results. In primary excisions for injury, a properly-constructed splint is frequently required for some weeks, as the tendency is usually towards a flail-like, fibrous union rather than to ankylosis. A splint jointed opposite the elbow will be found useful in many cases so as to allow of variation of position when neces- sary. Pronation and supination must not be neglected, and must be made when the splint is removed, as no apparatus has yet been invented which will allow of these movements being carried out in a normal Avay whilst it is applied. By the above mode of treatment a useful false joint can almost always be obtained. In two cases which I have had the opportunity of dissecting, one sixteen months and the other two years and a half after the operation, it was found that the ends of the bones were rounded and firmly held together by a capsule of dense ligamentous tissue. In this way a most useful limb will result, having the- four movements of fl.exion, ex- tension, pronation, and supination nearly perfect, with but little de- Fig. 555.-Aim after Excision of Blbow. formity, as may be seen by the accompanying cut (Fig. 555), which was taken nearly two years after operation from a patient of mine. A coachman, whose elbow-joint I excised, was able to drive, to lift a pail of water, and to do all the duties of his employment, nearly as well as if the arm had retained its normal condition. Should there be any danger of ankylosis, the patient may be put under chloroform and forcible flexion and extension employed ; after which, passive motion must be kept up daily. If this fail care must be taken that the ankylosis occurs in a flexed position. Should recurrence of disease take place, resecDion may again be resorted to with success. In one case, indeed, which had been unsuccessfully operated on twice by other Surgeons, I excised the bones about the elbow for the third time with complete success, removing a considerable portion—nearly three inches—of the necrosed shaft of the humerus, and the carious upper ends ot the radius and ulna. In this case, which was that of a boy about fourteen years of age, complete recovery took place. He had a most useful arm, regainmg the four movements of the joint, pronation, supination, flexion, and extension, and this notwithstanding his being of a most strumous habit Six months after the excision amputation of the thigh was performed for disease of the femur, and he eventually died at the end of two and a half years, of caries ol the spine. . j „ Results—Excision of the elbow-joint, as far as life is con^^^'^^d'/^, successful operation. The result, when it is practised for compound fiactmc