TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF HIP: DIAGNOSIS. 423 Diagnosis.—In making the diagnosis of tuberculous disease of the hip, care must be taken not to confound it in its early stages with an attack of rheumatism, a not unfrequent mistake. The alteration in the shape and position of the limb, the obliteration of the fold of the nates, and the limitation of the pain to one joint, will usually prevent the Sm^geon from falKng into this error. AYith disease of the knee, care must be taken not to confound hip disease, in consequence of the pain in the early stages being commonly referred to the former joint; here the absence of any positive sign of disease about the knee, and the existence of all the signs of disease in the hip that have akeady been noticed, will enable the Surgeon to recognize the true seat of the affection. Lateral curvature of the spine, accompanied by neuralgic tenderness in the hip, occasionally gives rise to apparent shortening of the limb with pain and rigidity ; but in these cases the existence of the spinal affection, the superficial nature of the pain, and the absence of increase of suffering wheu the joint is firmly compressed, or of painful startings at night, will indicate the true nature of the affection. Abscess may occasionally, though rarely, form in the vicinity of the hip without the joint being diseased. Should this take place towards the anterior aspect of the articu- lation under the pectineus muscle, it may, by its pressure upon the obturator nerve, occasion pain in the thigh and knee, as in those cases in which the articulation is affected ; here, however, the sound state of the joint at its posterior and outer part, the absence of all obliquity of the pelvis, and of the other signs of the true hip disease, will enable the diagnosis to be made. The diagnosis from sacro-iliac disease has been described at p. J:07. In infants inflammation of the glands in the groin may simulate hip disease, as the child flexes and adducts the limb, and screams when any forcible attempt at extension is made. It can be distinguished from hip disease by feeling the glands if the child be not too fat, and by observing that the thigh can be completely flexed and freely rotated without causing signs of pain. In the early stages of its forma- tion a psoas abscess may be evidenced only by flexion of the hip, due to the contraction of the psoas muscle, whilst all the ordinary signs of caries of the spine to which the abscess is due may be absent. In such cases it will be noted that there is no limitation of the other movements of the flexed hip, and it will often be possible to detect the psoas abscess by abdominal palpation. Disease of the hip and disease of the spine sometimes occur together, and the difficulty of diagnosis may be great if in such a case a psoas abscess has extended on to the thigh, causing swelling in the anterior region of the hip. Acute hip disease may be mistaken for peritgphlitis. The child lies with the thigh flexed on the abdomen, and complains acutely when the right groin is pressed. The diagnosis is easily made by anesthetizing the patient, when manipulations of the parts will reveal the precise seat of the inflammation. It may be taken as a general rule that if the thigh can be flexed to a right angle without any movement of the pelvis, perceptible to the hand placed^on the anterior superior spine and the neighbouring part of the crest, and if while in that position with the knee flexed, the femur can be abducted and rotated outwards till the heel is over the sound thigh, there is no disease of the hip. This movement is so readily made in young children that it is an easy mode of excluding hip disease, though of course if it is impossible, it does