DISEASES OF THE LARYNX. hopelessly engorged. The choice between these methods of treatment will b. considered ui t e following chapter. Under no circumstances should th Suigeon delay interference until extreme and continuous dyspnoea has set in this may never occur, the difficulty in breathing being rather spasmodic than continuous, and m one of the spasms death may suddenly occur. When onL dyspnoea with laryngeal spasm has fairly set in, every moment is precious Z the patient may at any time be carried off by the recurrence of the spasmodic seizures. The lungs also may become fatally congested if the difficulty in breathmg be allowed to continue too long. In some cases sloughing and putrid suppuration of the submucous tissue may occur, as m phlegmonous erysipelas of other parts of the body, and the patient may die partly from asphyxia and partly from blood-poisoninrr these cases the administration of stimulants and tonics, more particularly port- wine and bark, with free use of antiseptic inhalations, will be urgently required. Traumatic Laryngitis from scalds, corrosive fluids, &c., has already been alluded to m Vol. I., p. 8?.7. It usually assumes the oedematous form, and requires the same treatment. Chronic Laryngitis.—The larynx is liable to various chronic diseases of a serious character, some of which are incurable, leaving a permanent impair- ment of the vocal and other functions of the larynx.' Chronic laryngitis is usually divided into three varieties. Simple or Catarrhal, Syphilitic, and Tuberculous. All forms give rise to interference with the voice, and some to Aphonia, or complete loss of voice.' Simple Chronic Laryngitis.—This affection is common amongst those who habitually exert the voice, and from its frequency amongst clergymen is familiarly known as the Clergyman's Throat; it is also of frequent occurrence amongst singers, but may be met with in all classes of the community. In some cases it is the result of a previous attack of acute laryngitis, and it is predisposed to by gout and alcoholic excesses. The voice at first becomes hoarse, and may at last be reduced to a whisper. There is a slightly increased secretion of mucus, but it is never abundant. The patient is constantly troubled by a tickling or spasmodic cough, and at the same time there is usually a feeling as if there were some constant cause of irritation in the throat, attended by a desire to cough up and expectorate. Laryngoscopic examination shows diffused redness, with here and there ramiform injection of the vessels. The true vocal cords have lost their sharp edges, and are somewhat rounded, and at the same time, instead of the pure white colour natural to them, they are usually of a pink tint. Occasionally small wart-like growths or minute superficial erosions may appear on the vocal cords or on other parts of the glottis, as the result of simple chronic laryngitis. In many cases the appearances may be more or less obscured by adherent pellets of tough mucus. 7Veatment.—The treatment of simple chronic laryngitis requires to be conducted by careful regulation of the general health and selection of climate, avoidance of exposure to cold, attention to digestion and diet, and rest of the parts. All loud or prolonged speaking should be strictly forbidden. In addition to this the local applications of various astringent vegetable and metallic solutions is of the greatest service. In the milder forms of the disease, glycerine of tannin, applied by means of a