3o8 STRUCTURAL ClIANdES IN BONE. 85 cliild-biiiiriiig 40 other cases. WOlIIOll. Pelvis 9(i ... 87 Spinal Column . . . . . 54 ... 87 Chest ... 8U Lower Limb 17 ... 78 Upper Limb . . . . .12 ... 02 Head 8 ... 52 In child-bearing women the disease appears to have a remarkable predilec- tion for the pelvis ; it is probable, however, that a careful examination of all the bones has not been made in all cases. State of the Urine.—The urine is usually abundant and pale in colour ; it tends to deposit a sediment which has been compared to curdled milk. In many recorded cases, it has been found to contain large quantities of phos- phate of lime, probably derived from the softening bones, and in one recorded by Solly, a phosphatic calculus was lodged in the pelvis of the kidney. Bence- Jones described in one case the presence in the urine of an albumenoid body, to which he gave the name of " deutoxide of albumen ;" it has the characters of an albumose. It is soluble in hot water. It is dissolved by dilute nitric acid when heated, but precipitates again on cooling. Virchow has described a similar substance in the affected bones. Symptoms.—These are, in the early stages, extremely obscure and insidious. The patient complains, in the first instance, of wandering pains about the limbs and trunk which assume usually a rheumatic character, though they have been observed to be of a much more severe, persistent, and intractable nature than those that occur in any form of rheumatism. The patient becomes debilitated, unfitted for exertion, and emaciated. Spontaneous fracture now occurs in some bones under the influence of the most trivial causes ; others become bent, and the body consequently greatly misshapen and distorted. The deformity of the pelvis is a frequent cause of difficult labour, often neces- sitating Csesarean section, or Porro's operation. The acetabula are approxi- mated by the weight of the body pressing on the heads of the femora ; thus the oblique diameters are diminished, while the pubes is carried forward, the horizontal rami often coming nearly in contact. If the patient is not preg- nant, menstruation remains regular in most cases. Death usually results from general exhaustion, after a period varying from two to six years. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of this affection has to be made in the early stages from rheumatism. This is not always easy, and, indeed, is at fii'st impossible ; but after a time, when the peculiar phosphatic condition of the urine and the fragility or distortions of the osseous system manifest themselves, the true nature of the affection becomes apparent. With ridceis it cannot possibly be confounded, as rickets is a disease of childhood, and osteomalacia is peculiar to adult or advanced Hfe. • Treatment.—With regard to treatment, but little can be done : the ad- ministration of tonics, and a general supporting plan of treatment, may arrest for a time the progress of this terrible affection ; but when once it is declared, it usually progresses from bad to worse, and at last destroys the patient. Opiates may be employed to allay the pain, and in Maclntyre's case some temporarv advantage appeared to result from the administration of alum ; but no remedv has appeared to be of any real advantage in this complaint. Cases