DISEASES OF THE SCAPULA. 379„ operation in which the circumstances must vary so greatly in each case, as in this, and for the safe conduct of which the Surgx'on must be indebted mainly to his anatomical knowledge. It may be stated generally tliat_ the bone requires to be exposed by a free incision along its whole length : it is then sawn across or disarticulated at its acromial articulation, and carefully dissected out in a direction from without inwards, the sternal end being forcibly twisted out, and its ligamentous connexions cautiously divided, care being taken to avoid the important vessels and nerves in the lower part of the posterior triangle of the neck, and to prevent, by ligature before division, the entry of air into any vein which it may be necessary to divide. In 1828 Mott partially excised the clavicle in a man of nineteen for a central " osteo-sarcoma," which measured four inches in diameter. The operation was one of great difficulty; it occupied four hours in its performance, and forty ligatures were required to restrain the hsemorrhage. The subclavian vein, thoracic duct, and phrenic nerve were exposed, but the patient made a good recovery and lived to the age of seventy-three. The immediate mortality from the operation has not, indeed, been high : thus of sixteen cases of partial or complete excision for sarcoma collected by Bowreman Jessett, 12 recovered from the operation. In many of the cases rapid recurrence followed. In Jessett's case, in which the tumour was subperiosteal, small recurrences were removed and the patient was well and could use the limb freely four years after the operation. In addition to Mott's case reference may be made to three others in which the tumour was central. Of two mentioned by Butlin, one was lost sight of after the operation, and in the other recurrence took place in two months. In a third case Bland Sutton removed the outer half of the clavicle for a myeloid tumour of the acromial end ; the patient was free from recurrence nearly four years later. The sternal end of the clavicle has been excised by Davie of Bungay in a case in which dislocation backwards had resulted from deformity of the spine, and the luxated end, gradually pressing upon the oesophagus, threatened the life of the patient. The bone was cut through by means of a Hey's saw about an inch from its sternal end, and, the sterno-clavicular ligaments having been divided, the portion of bone was forcibly elevated and extracted. DISEASES OF THE SCAPULA. Caries and necrosis, resulting from tubercle or syphilis do not very commonly affect the scapula primarily. When the bone becomes the seat of these diseases, it will generally be found that the acromion and the spine ai-e the parts aifected. In such cases the progress of disease is usually very slow, and in most instances the carious bone may be effectually gouged out, or the sequestrum extracted, by laying open sinuses, and thus exposing the diseased osseous surface by irregular and informal operations. Necrosis and caries have, however, sometimes occurred to such an extent as to necessitate partial or even complete excision of the bone. In two instances the whole bone has been excised for disease of this kind following amputation at the shoulder- joint for caries of the humerus. The operators were Rigaud of Strassburg, and Fergusson. Both cases did well. Syphilitic nodes arc not very uncommon on the acromion and spine of the