ANEURISM OF THE INNOMINATE. i6i not die of it; but thab the ultimate cause of death is usually intrathoracic pressure, rupture of the sac internally or externally, or exhaustion. The operation, therefore, would be justifiable in those cases only in which it could be determined that the spasmodic dyspnoea was purely laryngeal, and was not dependent on compression of the air-passages within the chest by the aneurismal tumour, but simply on the irritation produced by the implication of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Such cases are very rare, and neces- sarily most difficult of accurate diagnosis. As the Surgeon will usually get . the credit of having killed the patient if he be induced to perform the I operation, and the relief be not immediate and great, I would advise him , not to operate unless the diagnosis be most clear, or in circumstances of 3 imminent death from laryngeal spasm, with the view of affording immediate, ) even if it be only temporary, relief. If any operation be done, it should ! certainly be laryngotomy, and not tracheotomy. ANEURISM OF THE INNOMINATE ARTEEY. Aneurisms of this artery are very frequently accompanied by dilatation or actual aneurism of the aorta. Innominate aneurisms may be either of the tubular or the sacculated kind, and usually give rise to a train of serious and dangerous symptoms, from their pressure upon important parts in their neighbourhood. Indeed, a glance at the relations of this artery will show the I important effects that must be produced by the pressure of a tumour springing from it. Crossing it is the left innominate vein ; to the outer side are the lower cervical cardiac branch of the pneumogastric, the right innominate vein, the right pneumogastric and the pleura ; behind it and to its inner side is the trachea. An innominate aneurism may extend backwards so as to come into relation with the oesophagus, and upwards so as to press on the right recurrent laryngeal nerve. Symptoms.—The general symptoms of an aneurism of the innominate artery are the existence of a pulsating tumour of a globular shape behind the right sterno-clavicular articulation, attended with pain, and perhaps oedema of i the right side of the face and right arm, with some difficulty in respiration, laryngeal cough, and dysphagia. The tumour is usually soft and compressible, fining up more or less completely the hollow above the sternum, and even rising as high in the neck as the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage; it pushes forwards, first the sternal, and afterwards the clavicular portion of the sterno-mastoid muscle, and has occasionally been seen to extend into i the posterior inferior triangle of the neck ; and, indeed, is generally mcst [ distinctly defined towards its brachial aspect. In some cases no tumour rises into the neck, but the sternum, clavicle, and costal cartilage of the first rib, are found to be considerably pushed forwards. In the space around the right sterno-clavicular articulation, and about the upper part of the sternum, : there will be dulness on percussion, and marked pulsation is often felt in the first intercostal space. In very many instances there is no bruit, but merely a strong impulse with the heart's sounds, as distinct as in the cardiue region, or even more so ; but in other cases there may be every variety of bruit. Pressure-Effects.—The most "important symptoms are occasioned perhaps VOL. II. M