—? 5^4 DEFORMITIES OF THE LEG AND FOOT obliged to lie up about one week in every mouth to get rid of his n-iins Both feet were affected, but the left much less than the right. By galVanio exanimation, irritability was found to be lost in the right interossei and verv much diminished in the left. The Mode of Production of pes cavus is very doubtful. Ducheniic explains it as being the result of paralysis of the interossei and of the short flexor and adductor of the great toe. As in the hand, the interossei not only move the toes laterally, but they powerfully flex the first phalanges, at the same time that they extend the two last. According to Duchenne, the origin of hollow claw-tbut is as follows :— "When the interosseous muscles are paralysed or atrophied, the tonic contraction of the muscles which extend the first phalanges and that of the muscles which flex the last phalanges being no longer opposed, the claw-like condition of the toes gradually becomes augmented. The posterior extremities of the first phalanges are subluxated upon the heads of the metatarsal bones ; then the curve of the plantar arch becomes increased and the plantar fascia shortened ; then certain articulations and their ligaments become deformed, as in all club-feet." The mecha- nism is exactly the same as that of the similar disease in the hand. The disease is always accom- panied by a tendency to tali])es equino-varus, " that is to say, the flexion of the foot upon the leg during walking is incomplete, and during this flexion of the foot the tibialis anticus (flexor and adductor) has a predomi- nance of action over the extensor longus digitorum (flexor and abductor of the foot) ; or in other words, during flexion, the sole of the foot is turned slightly inwards and the dorsum outwards." This is accounted for by considering the unfavourable conditions in which the louir extensor of the toes is placed after paralysis of the interossei. The inferior attachment of this muscle is upon a movable point, the posterior and superior extremities of the second and ungual phalanges. The tendency to extension is counteracted by the interossei, which serve to give a fixed point for the extensor longus digitorum to act from, when flexing the foot at the ankle. But when these muscles are paralysed, the attachment of the extensor longus digitorum becames very movable, and we then see at the moment of flexion of the foot upon the leg, that the first phalanges are drawn back even more than before upon the metatarsal bones, at the same time depressing the heads of these bones. The action of the long extensor as a flexor and abductor of the foot is thus much weakened, and this leads to a predominance in the action ot the tibialis anticus (flexor and adductor of the foot), in consequence of which a mild form of varus is produced accompanied by some raising of the heel, due to imperfect flexion of the ankle-joint. To sum up : this variety of hollow foot {jjied creux) is produced by an exaggerated and continued action of the extensors of the first phalanges of the Fig. 659.—Hollow Cla-^v-Foot. Pes Cavus.