ERRORS IN SOUNDING. 1041 any operation. A good deal of this information may be elicited by the ordinary sound, but some of the points can be accurately determmed only by sounding with the lithotrite. The liardness of the stone may usually be judged of by the more or less clear ringing character of the click ; a uric acid or oxalate of lime calculus giving a sharper sound than a phosphatic concretion. A calculus may generally be known to be encysted if the sound strike it at times, but not at others (Fig. 852) ; if the stone always appear to be fixed in one situation ; and if the beak of the instrument cannot be made to pass round it, so as to isolate it, but a kind of tumour projecting through the walls of the bladder is felt around or on one side of the point where the calculus is struck. The fasciculated, roughened, and sacculated condition of the Uadder may generally be detected by the way in which the beak of the instrument grates and rubs over the organ. The size of the calculus is best determined by seizing it gently in a lithotrite. It is true that a Surgeon may sometimes come to a decision as to the bulk of a calculus, by observing the extent of surface along which the sound is in contact with" the stone, as the instrument is being withdrawn. But only a very rough guess can be made in this way ; and I have frequently seen very experienced Surgeons deceived, mistaking perhaps several small stones lying together for one large one. In order to determine that several calculi exist in the bladder, it is some- times sufficient for the Surgeon to feel that the beak of the sound comes in contact with a stone on each side of the organ, or that it can be distinctly insinuated between two concretions. In some cases, however, these points cannot clearly be made out; and then the Surgeon, introducing a lithotrite and seizing the first calculus with which he meets, should hold this between the blades of the instrument, and whilst it is so fixed move it and the lithotrite from side to side ; when, if a cKck be heard and felt, he may be sure of the existence of another stone. Sounding is by no means free from danger, more especially if done roughly, or in patients who have chronic kidney disease. In the first case it may give rise to cystitis or profuse and continuous haemorrhage ; in the second, to rigors and suppression of urine. Errors in Sounding occasionally occur. The Surgeon may mistake a hardened and fasciculated bladder, having its ridges perhaps encrusted with phosphatic matter, for a calculus ; this is especially apt to happen in children. In these cases, however, the mistake may usually be guarded against by the absence of a distinct click, though a rough grating sensation be experienced, and by the Surgeon being unable to isolate a stone. Yet the difficulty in some cases is great ; Yelpeau was acquainted with four instances, and S. Cooper with seven, in which patients had been cut and no calculus found ; and when we reflect that these accidents have happened to such men as Cheselden, who on three occasions cut a patient and found no stone, to Crosse, to Roux, and to Dupuytren, it is easy to understand that in some cases the difficulty of coming to a correct decision must be very great. Examination of the Bladder with the Cystoscope may occasionally be of service in the detection of calculi. This method of examination is described at p. 1110. VOL. II. 3 X