322 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. not only above the elbow-joint but above the humeral attachments of the muscles of the forearm. The propriety of excision of some bones, as of those of the face, in this disease must depend on whether the morbid growth is limited to the structures that can be excised. This operation can rarely be advantageously practised in malignant tumours, there being in general too great an implication of the soft structures in the neighbourhood to justify it. Secondary Sarcomata of Bone.—All malignant sarcomata, wherever arising, when they become generalized, may form secondary growths in the bones. Thus in a case of sarcoma of the breast under my care some years ago, the fatal result was due to a secondary tumour forming in the sternum. Melanotic sarcoma not unfrequently gives rise to secondary tumours in the medulla or cancellous tissue of bones ; secondary alveolar sarcoma is sometimes met with. Carcinoma of Bone is always secondary. Glandular Carcinoma when it becomes generahzed, not unfrequently gives rise to secondary tumours of bone, and is a common cause of spontaneous fracture. Seven cases of this kind'have occurred lately in University College Hospital, which are good examples of this. Five occurred after excision of the breast. In three, the secondary tumour formed in the vertebra ; in one, in the ribs ; and in one, in the femur. In a sixth case, in an apparently healthy man, the upper jaw was excised for what was supposed to be a primary tumour of the outer part of the upper maxilla and the malar bone. After death a primary scirrhous cancer of the pancreas was found, and the tumour of the jaw presented the same structure In a seventh case, amputation at the shoulder-jomt was performed for a tumour of the upper end of the humerus which was thought to be a primary sarcoma, but which proved to be a carcinoma, secondary to a primary growth in the uterus. Squamous Carcinoma of bone very rarely occurs as a secondary growth ; it is usually the result of direct extension from the primary tumour. _ iwo specimens of secondaiy squamous carcinoma of a rib are preserved m the Museum of University College ; in one the primary growth was m the oesophagus, in the other on the penis. Secondary Columnar Carcinoma is still more rare. Bernard Pitts has recorded a case in the Transactions of the Pathological Society of London, m which a growth in the humerus causing spontaneous fracture was secondary to a columnar carcinoma of the rectum. • n ^ui. I'n fho A very rare form of malignant growth is occasionally met with in tbe thyroid body, which almost exactly resembles the normal gland in structure It ha a peculiar tendency to give rise to secondaiy tumours of the same iri" re in the bones. cLs of this kind have been recorded by Cohnheim. Morris and others. In some cases they have pulsated strongly. In sec^^^^^^^ cancerous tumours of bone are central, commencmg either in f>iP moduUa or in the cancellous tissue. ^ , ^ „ . c P™a™g Tumours or BONE-OsTEO-ANEUE.SM.-PiOsatnig tumours ol Je or Steo-aneurisms, arc a mixed group of growths P°^-^'°='~ X'o- feature, that the, ^^^^^^^^^^^ ^ "L'Z. resemble a j,,^]";, CoS out, suuvll aneurismal dilatations r;rsro;'re' ts'se"^," ::rf«m'» olose uetwor. throughout the mass.