I2I6 mSEASBS OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. CHAPTER LXXII. DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. DISEASES OF THE PENIS. Complete Arrest of the Development of the Male Sexual Organg IS of very rare occurrence. I have seen only one instance of it. This was the case of a man aged 22, in whom the penis and scrotum were perfectly formed but not larger than the organs of an infant a few months old. No distinct testes could be felt, but there was some thickened structure in the scrotum which felt like an undeveloped testis. The prepuce was long. There was very little hair on the pubes. This person had sexual desires, and, in fact, had become engaged to be married. He told me that he had erections, when the organ became about an inch or an inch and a half long, and that there was occa- sional emission of a glairy fluid. He was fair, fresh-coloured, round-faced, fat, and had smooth rounded limbs, more like those of a stout girl than of a young man. His voice was weak and feminine in tone. He led a sedentary indoor life, but said that he was strong and capable of ordinary physical exertion. CONGENITAL MALFORMATIONS. Congenital Absence of the Penis has been recorded in a few rare instances ; it may be associated with other abnormalities. Double Penis is a pathological curiosity. In three cases, one of which was recorded in this country by Ernest Hart, the malformation was associated with the existence of a third lower limb attached in front of the anus ; urine escaped through each penis, and the scrotum also was double. Adhesion of Penis to Scrotum.— I have once met with the curious con- dition in which the penis is tied down to the scrotum, so as to lie in a deep sulcus between the testes. In this case the raphe of the scrotum appeared to be con- tinued in a narrow rather firm band upwards to the under surface of the penis, so that this organ was always bent downwards. The patient, a man of 80, passed his urine downwards, apparently from the under surface of the scrotum : during erection the penis curved up in a semicircular form, the convexity upwards, the glans being tightly tied down to the scrotum by the narrow tense band continued up from the raphe. In fact, the condition of this organ was very like that which is met with in the tongue when " tongue-tied." This malformation was remedied by cutting through the fraenum which tied the penis down, and thus liberating the organ. Hypospadias consists in a cleft condition of the under surface of the penis. Up to the tenth week of intra-uterine life the external organs of generation are alike in the male and female. At this time the uro-genital