TREATMENT OF GLEET. '^65 This treatment has proved most satisfactory. The granular patches are dried Inl mTwool mops and are then touched with a mop soaked m a sohition ni^elf sir, ?0 to .0 grains to the ounce, accorW — ^ cono-estion. In the absence of the endoscope the so ution may be appl ea by con esuoi . rpj^-g ^^j^gigts of a hollow bulbous means 01 b-uyons mjeciui v-^ ^n- ' ^ „ . „^ tKo Vmlhnns sound perforated in the bulb, and fitted with a small syrmge The bulbous 0 nd having been passed down the urethra till the exact situation of the nCed spot is found by the'tenderness and slight clmg before mentioned he perforated head is held fixed at the diseased spot and a few drops of a solution of nitrate of silver (tea to twenty grams to be ounce of water are injected. The patient should pass urine immediately be ore the injection and not again for some hours if possible. Berkeley Hill, who had great experience of this mode of treatment, states that, if the patient keep quiet for some time after, no complications are likely to follow ; but neglect of these precautions mav be followed by swelled testicle or even perineal abscess. After the operation a mixture containing citrate of potassium and hyo- scyamus should be prescribed and a weak astringent injection should be used between the different sittings, of which several may be required. The passac^e of bougies for a short time is usuaUy necessary to complete the cure. Otis of ifew York, is of opinion that every prolonged gleet is the result of a Pig. POO.—Guyoii's Injector. The SmaUer Figure represents tlie Nozzle. narrowing of the canal, and he recommends internal urethrotomy as a cure- cutting the urethra up to its normal size by the method described under the treatment of stricture of the urethra. The operation is somewhat severe, and should never be resorted to till all other means have failed. The treatment of gleet may therefore be summed up as follows : The patient must be carefully examined, in order to detect, if possible, some constitutional condition, such as struma, gout, or rheumatism, which may serve as a guide to general treatment, diet, and use of stimulants. Change of air and sea-bathing are often of essential service. The orifice of the urethra must be enlarged, if necessary. Warty growths or suppurating folhcles at the orifice may be touched with nitrate of silver. If they are not found, the electuary of cubebs and copaiba, or one composed of cubebs and the sesquioxide of iron, may be administered with advantage, and the injections recommended for the chronic stage of gonorrhea may be persevered with. Should these fail, and should the olive-headed sound give distinct evidence of a tender spot, and perhaps a slight narrowing of the urethra, the passage of a full-sized metallic bougie every second or third day should be tried. If, after a fair trial, this also fail, the application of nitrate of silver, by means of the endoscope, or with Guyou's in- jector, must ijcxt be had recourse to, followed by mild injections and the passage of bougies ; and, lastly, if everything else have failed, and a distinct narrowing of the canal be present, internal urethrotomy may be tried as a last resource.