374 EXCISION OF JO J ATS. sufficing, with very little assistance, to eliminate diseased bone, and the dis- organized joints admitting readily enough of ankylosis. If the disease be too severe for this, it will usually be found to be associated with so strumous a constitution as to interfere with healthy reparative action of any kind. Another serious objection to these operations in young children is that, should the epiphyses be removed, the development of the limb will be to a great extent arrested. At advanced periods of life, destructive joint disease is not very common, and when it does happen, it is generally in constitutions not capable of healthy repair after these operations. It is in early adult life, when the diseases most frequently occur that render resections necessary, that these operations are best borne. Repair after Excision.—The mode of repair after resection of bones or joints differs according to the circumstances of the operation. When, as very commonly happens in cases of necrosis, the periosteum, thickened, infiltrated, and loosened, can readily be detached, or, indeed, is ali'eady separated, without injury to itself, from the dead bone, reproduction of new osseous tissue to a very considerable extent may be expected. My own observations on the fibula, tibia, and ulna, and those of Oilier and Maisonneuve, prove the importance of the periosteum as an organ of repair after the extrac- tion of a dead shaft of bone from within it. Repair in this way is, I believe, chiefly to be looked for in the shafts of the long bones ; although some Surgeons, as An nan dale of Edinburgh, have described the os calcis as having been reproduced after subperiosteal excision. The remarkable osteogenetic properties possessed by the periosteum have been conclusively estabhshed by the experiments of Oilier. He has shown that a bone is much more rapidly and perfectly reproduced after removal, if the periosteum be left, than if it be removed, and he states that the osteogenetic properties of this membrane are greater in the long than in the short bones. He is of opinion also that resections of joints performed by the subperiosteal method give better results, so far as the shape and formation of the new articulation are concerned, than if this membrane be sacrificed. These observations, indeed, conclusively establish the importance of making in all cases every effort to preserve the periosteum during a resection. When a short bone, as the os calcis, has been entirely removed, with its periosteum attached, it is never regenerated, but its place is occupied by a thick, firm, fibrous cicatrix. Ill some cases in which a considerable portion of the diaphysis of a long bone is taken away, repair may be imperfectly accomplished owing to slough- ing of thQ periosteum. In a case of this kind in which two-thirds of the shaft of the humerus were lost, Macewen succeeded in obtaining complete restoration by transplantation of small fragments of bone obtained from the wedge-shaped pieces cut out of different patients for the cure of rickety curves in the tibia. The fragments measured about two-fifths of an inch in length and thickness, and the operation was performed with antiseptic precautions. This ingenious mode of treatment certainly deserves further trial. When a joint has been excised, either osseous or ligamentous ankylosis may take place or a false joint may be formed, and the Surgeon should endeavour to secure the form of union most suitable to the case. Thus, when the knee has been excised, as a sound and firm limb is desirable, osseous ankylosis should, if possible, be brought about; whilst in the upper extremity mobility