OBSTMUCTJO.V FROM A FOREIGN BODY. 899 meu. It is probable that in every case of obstruction from a gall-stone the calculus has found its way into the intestine by ulceration from the gall- bladder into the duodenum, and not by passing down the bde-duct. The shape commonly assumed by these large calculi is well shown in Fig. 815, taken from a stone removed from a case under the care of B. H. Allen of Hastings. The base of the stone is facetted as if it had lain in contact with another concretion in the gall-bladder. It is possible that the stone may increase in size after entering the intestine. Mayo Robson has pointed out that gall-stones may also cause obstruction by setting up localized peritonitis, or by inducing volvulus of the intestine. A foreign body, when it causes obstruction, usually lodges in the lower part of the ileum, which is the narrowest part of the intestine. The Special Symptoms of Obstruction from a Foreign Body are not very characteristic. The previous history may throw some light upon the case. If the foreign body is a gall-stone there may be a history of repeated attacks of hepatic colic, and of an illness with obscure pain in the region of rhe gall-bladder, probably unaccompanied by jaundice, iccurring some days or weeks before the symptoms of obstruction commenced, and indicating the time at which the gall-stone passed by ulceration into the duodenum. After this there may be a history of obscure pains in the belly, usually worse after food. The invasion of the symptoms is sufficiently sudden to bring the condition within the class of acute obstructions, but it is not abrupt, nor is it accom- panied by severe pain or collapse. The vomiting comes •on gradually, is seldom very profuse, and may not l^ecome stercoraceous for many days. The constipation is complete, but in the great majority of the recorded -jases there has been little or no distension of the ... n ^^ ^ tig. 81.'3.—Gall-stone renioved abdomen. The coils of intestine cannot be recognised, i)y operation from the ileum, nor is there any visible peristalsis. Such pain as there is may be referred to the region of the obstruction, but this is by no means ulways the case. By manipulation some tenderness may be detected, usually below and to the right of the umbilicus, and possibly, under chloroform, some fulness might be felt if the patient be not too fat. The result of the case depends upon the size of the foreign body and the point at which it is impacted. If lodged high up—a very rare condition—the symptoms are much more severe, and death occurs early. If low down in the ileum the patient may survive for from two weeks to a month. In other cases a gall-stone has been passed aft^r as much as four weeks of complete ob- struction. The size of the foreign body and its form are of much importance. 1F smooth and rounded it is more likely to pass. The stone figured above was rough on the surface, and measured 31 inches in circumference. Larger stones than this have been passed after longer or shorter intervals of obstruc- tion, but, on the other hand, death has been caused by a calculus measuring only i\ inches in circumference. If death takes place it is caused either by "xhaustion from vomiting or by ulceration and perforation of the gut at the [loint where the body is impacted. 4-. HuDDEN Occlusion of a Stricture of the Small Intestine is 3 M 2