388 DISEASES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. II sinuses lead down to carious or necrosed bone in the olecranon or the condyles, the joint being permanently flexed and the arm useless. The Treatment of tuberculous disease of the elbow in its early stages consist ^ in complete fixation at right angles with the hand in the mid-position betwee pronation and supination. Until the lust few years the i-outine treatment i cases requiring operative interference consisted in complete excision of tl joint. Recently, however, good results have been obtained in suitable cases, 1 applying to the elbow the same principle of treatment that has been so success fully employed in the knee, viz., to open the joint and remove the diseas*-; tissues as completely as possible without unnecessarily sacrificing healthy structures. Arthrectomy of the elbow may be done by different methods, but the two which will be found most generally useful are : 1, two lateral incisions ; and 2, a single longitudinal posterior incision with temporary resection of th- olecranon. If lateral incisions be employed, they must be made over th.: intervals between the condyles and the olecranon ; on the inner side the ulnar nerve must be carefully preserved, and on the outer side the incision must not be carried too low lest the posterior interosseous nerve be wounded. If temporary resection of the olecranon be practised the process may be divided ai its base with a saw or chisel, and subsequently re-adjusted with a stout silver- wire suture. In any case when the joint has been opened the tuberculous synovial membrane is thoroughly removed with forceps and scissors ; at the same time any loosened or partially eroded cartilage is cut away, and diseased foci in the bones thoroughly scraped. The incisions should be closed with sutures except at the extremities which are left open for drainage, and the subse- quent management of the case will be the same as after excision. The treat- ment of tuberculous disease of the elbow by arthrectomy instead of by formal excision has been specially advocated in this country by Cheyne and Glutton. ; Of nine cases treated in this way by Glutton, recovery with useful movement , foUowed in six ; in.two ankylosis occurred, and in the remammg case excision was subsequently required. i.- t ,^ ■ Excision of the Elbow.—In tracing the history of the introduction of this operation into surgical practice, we find, as is the case in several other parts, that it was first partially and then wholly done for injury, and proposed by one Surgeon and eventually practised by another for disease. Thus l/o8or 1759 Wainman, in a case of compound dislocation of the joint, sawed oft the lower end of the humerus just above the fossa, leaving the patient with a flexible and useful arm. Tyre, of Gloucester, did the same, removing two and a half inches of the lower end of the humerus, m a case of compound dislocation. Justamond, of the Westminster Hospital, was the first to operate in a case of disease: this he did in 1775, removing the olecranon and two | nches of the ulna. Park proposed, but did not have an opportunity of pTac Lng, the complete excision of the joint. This was done for the first. Sme by Moreau, senior, in 1794, and again by Moreau, J"^^or in 1.97 T ittle was done from this time until the operation was revived by the si^eons of Leeds ; in 1818 by Stanfield, in 1819 by Chorley and Hey. It rde rapTd ^iWess, and was specially practised by Syme and Liston, and the Surffeons of the Edinbuvgli Infirmaiy. t ■ t « for Thl operation may be required, 1, for Chronic D«ase of the Jo.nt, 2, for oJeous Ankylosis ; and 3, for Compound Fractures and Dislocations.