CAUSES AND LOCALITY OF VAKIX. VARICOSE VEINS OR VARIX. By Varicose Veins or Varix is meant a permanent dilatation of tlie veins with thickening of their walls. Varix must be distinguished from simple dilatation or phlebectasis such as arises from acute obstruction to the return of blood, or from the pressure of a tumour or aneurism. Simple dilatation subsides as soon as the cause is removed, and it is not accompanied by any definite change in the structure of the walls of the veins ; varix is permanent and is always associated with degenerative changes in the coats of the affected vessel. Causes.—The causes of varix are generally such conditions as induce more or less permanent or frequently repeated distension of the veins. Thus, for instance, straius and habitual over-exertion of a limb, by driving the blood from the deep into the subcutaneniis veins, may give rise to distension of them; so also sedentary occupations and prolonged scanding tend to favour accumalation of blood in the veins of the lower extremities. Any obstacle to the return of blood from a vein (as the pressure of a tight garter below the knee, or of a tumour upon one of the large venous trunks), may give rise to permanent distension if it act for a sufficient length of time. When the vein has become sufficiently dilated to render its valves incompetent, the tension of the w^alls of the veins is greatly increased by the weight of the unbroken column of blood, and the condition thus becomes aggravated. In all cases in which the tissues are congested from any obstruction to the return of blood, the walls of the veins suflFer with the other parts, and are thus rendered more prone to de- generative changes. In some cases the affection, or the disposition to it, appears to be hereditary; and in many instances it is difficult to recognize any cause except an enfeebled and relaxed state of the walls of the vessel, such as is met with in tall, debilitated, and phlegmatic people. Age materially influences the occurrence of the disease, which, rare in the earlier periods of life, gradually increases in frequency up to middle age when the tendency ceases. In tvomen, especially, the affection is common—in consequence, partly, of natural debility, but more frequently from the pressure of the enlarged uterus during pregnancy. Locality.—The veins of the skin and the mucous membranes are those that are most liable to varix. It is most commonly met with in the legs, and more particularly in the trunk of the internal saphena. Simple dilatation may be met with in any of the superficial veins, as of the chest, arms, head, neck, hypogastrium, or thorax, but true varix in these situations is rare. The veins of the anus and lower part of the rectum are especially liable to varix, as they are but loosely supported by the surrounding parts, and are subject to over-distension from any cause that obstructs the hepatic circulation, such as cirrhosis of the Kver. The spermatic veins also often become enlarged, con- stituting varicocele. True varix is infinitely more common in the lower than in the upper part of the body, owing evidently to the influence of gravity in causing tension in the more dependent vessels. Dilatation of the veins at any point above the pelvis arises in most cases from the pressure of a tumour of some kind upon the laro-e venous trunks, the superficial veins being enlarged to take the place of the deeper vessels that are obstructed. This condition may end in true varix but if the enlargement is sufficient to enable the vein to carry the required quantity