62 DISEASES OF VEINS. of blood easily there will be none of those changes of the coats which con- stitute true varix and are the result of abnormal tension. The deep-seated veins that are principally affected ai-e the internal jugulars, the vena aiiygos, and the veins of the prostate. Morbid Anatomy.—Veins that are simply dilated (phlebectasis) differ from true varicose vein-3 in being merely increased in size, without any alteration in structure. "^Pheir walls are thin and soft, and they collapse readily. A vai-icose vein is increased in diameter and elongated, forming curves and bending back on itself. Sometimes the enlargements at particular points appear multilocular, the vein forming a series of curves and dilatations lying closely packed together. The coats of the vein are opaque, and thickened often to such an extent that the divided vessel stands open like an artery. Occasion- ally calcareous plates are met with in the thickened walls. On opening the vein the valves are always found to be insufficient ; sometimes they have disappeared altogether, and in other cases they form small ridges or bands projecting from the wall. When the vein has been cut up it wdl be seen tliat in some of the pouch-like dilatations the wall has become greatly thinned. The inner coat of the vein appears smooth and but little altered, beyond being often marked by longitudinal strise. When the vein is sub- cutaneous, the small branches entering the trunk from the skin are often dilated, and this condition may sometimes be traced here and there into the cutis, which is thinned over the dilated vessel. In the wall of the vein and in its sheath small dilated veins belonging to the vasa vasorum are very commonly observed. Microscopic examination shows that the thickening of the vein is chiefly due to a development of dense fibroid tissue in the middle coat. The muscu- lar fibre cells are somewhat increased in number, but are separated widely from each other by the fibroid tissue. The outer coat is also thickened ; the inner shows but little change. In the thinned pouches, the middle coat is atroDhied, and may have completely disappeared. Appearances and Symptoms.—Varicose veins are tortuous, dilated, and sacculated ; they are serpentine in their course, and feel thick under the finger When superficial, the disease is often limited to one of the larger venous trunks, the smaller branches not being implicated. This we commonly see in the internal saphena. The pouch-like dilatations may often approach very closely to the surface, the skin being thinned over them, and the blue tmt of the vein being readily perceptible. When the patient is erect the vems become more prominent and tense. In other cases the small superficial veins are affected, appearing in the skin as a close network of a purplish-blue colour, causing much discoloration of the parts. Both sets of vessels may be implicated. In consequence of the incompetence of the valves an impulse can often be felt even below the knee when the patient is niade to cough. arix of the deep veins is less common, as the vessels are better supported by the surrounding parts. They give rise to no appearance which can be recognized during life! Varicose veins cause a sense of tension and ^^igbt often considerable smarting or pricking pain in the V-^'l^J^'^-^^^^^^^ the blood. Sometimes they may cause numbness, difficulty of i^o^en^^ent o even some loss of power in the aflected limb. These symptoms are aggiavate. bv exertion and in deep-seated varix they are often very marked ^progress Ind EfFects.-Varicose veins never undergo spontaneous cure :