DISEASE OF THE ANTRUM. 627 r^^-.m•n<5 flispase from a ffiii about 19 (rig. bbbj. oiic uieu ui. u ^tifafL operati^^^ ; and in the same collection i^^^^'" T th •p™>oduced lower iaw, consisting of an entire semicircle of bone, about 5-8tiis Zn inch d ep, witk all the processes. This unique and most interesting casp has already been described, and the regenerated bone figured (Vol. IL, rfcl 516^ In it the periosteum must have been preserved entire, and thii led to "the r production of the bone. Should no new bone have formed bete the operation, a dense fibroid cicatricial structure will replace the lost ^^rctmomycosis, which has a special tendency to affect the lower jaw, has been described in Vol. I., p. 1105. DISEASES OF THE ANTEUM AND UPPER JAW. Our present knowledge of the operative procedures necessary for the removal of disease of the jaws, is due chiefly to the labours of Gensou , Lizars and Listen. William Eergnsson and Christopher Heath have also done much to simplify and extend this department of Surgery. The various large and irregular cavities that lie amongst the bones ot the face may become the seat of disease, primarily originating either m the mucous membrane by which they are hned, or in the osseous structures that compose their walls. In this way the frontal sinuses, the ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells, and the antrum, may either be seats of chronic inflammation of then- mucous linings, with more or less profuse muco-purulent discharge ; or the mucous membrane may be affected by more serious organic disease. Thus carcinoma may develop in it, and after distending the cavity m which it originally formed, may destroy its osseous walls ; and, passing outwards into other situations about the face and the base of the skull, where it is freed from the pressure of surrounding bone, it may increase rapidly, blocking up mucous canals, as the nose and the lachrymal sac and duct, displacing the eye, and producing great disfigurement of the side of the face. These secondary outgrowths, from the rapidity of their development, and the amount of deformity and distress which they occasion, may readily be mistaken for the primary disease, the real starting point of which will often be found in a deeper locality. The bones constituting the walls of these facial cavities, or the periosteum covering them, may also be the seat of other morbid growths, more particularly of enchondroma, and myeloid, spindle-celled or round- celled sarcoma. These run a similar course to the growths originating in the mucous membranes. s s 2