^5° ANEURISM. nofcTr°^ir"5r""" tl.e size of the aneurism, if not cuic t. He seems to have tried it in only two cases One was nr. uneunsm in the snpraclavicuh^r region (exact nature not mentioned)rwhid had previously been treated with moxas, and almost cured. The symptom having returned, hypodermic injections of ergot were tried. The quantity injected varied from about i grain to :5 grains of Bonjean's watery extract of eigot, dilu ed with three times as much spirit and glycerine. The injections were repeated every three or four days. Decided improvement is said to have taken jDlace, but pulsation never quite ceased. The improvement commenced after the second injection. No unpleasant symptoms occurred after the injec- tions In the second case a man, aged 42, had a sacculated aneurism of the radial artery of the size of a hazel-nut. An injection of two grains and a half of the watery extract cured it in one day, as the next day it could not be felt i he injection gave rise to some inflammation of the surrounding cellular tissue which disappeared in a week. ' This accident I have seen happen in one case in which I tried it, but no good resulted from the treatment, which cannot, indeed, on pathological grounds, be considered to be of a hopeful character. Introduction of Foreign Bodies.—In 1804 Moore introduced twenty- six yards of fine iron wire into the sac of an aortic aneurism through a fine trochar, with the view of inducing coagulation of its contents. The tumour appeared to become moi-e solid, but death took place on the fifth day from inflammation of the sac and pericarditis. Since that time the operation has been repeated about a dozen times without any very encouraging degree of success, the only cure having occurred in a case of a small brachial aneurism in a young woman under the care of Van der Meulin. In this case catgut was used instead of wire, and the treatment was combined with compression. In 1873, Bryant introduced twenty-six feet of horsehair into a pophteal aneurism in a patient dying from ulcerative endocarditis, and thus averted the threatened rupture of the sac, prolonging life for a few days. In 1883 Loreta introduced two metres of wire into the sac of an abdominal aneurism after exposing it by opening the abdomen. The man apparently recovered, but died after ninety-two days from rupture of the sac close to the mouth. Similar treatment was adopted by Morris in a case of abdominal aneurism, but the patient died of asthenia on the fifth day. In 1885, Hulke introduced forty feet of wire into an aortic aneurism, with the result of consoUdating a part of the sac which threatened to give way, but eleven weeks after, the tumour was enlarging so rapidly in another direction that the operation was repeated by Gould, but without success. These seem to be the only cases in which any marked benefit has followed the operation. The true value of this treatment has yet to be determined. It is evidently justifiable only when more efficient means are inapplicable, and in such cases it may do something to arrest the progress of the disease. Opinions differ as to the best material to be used. Steel wire, which has been rolled upon a reel so that it may again coil up in the sac, seems the most convenient in many ways, and if too much be not introduced it is not likely to cause any irritation in the sac. Horsehair and catgut are less under control, and may project through the mouth of the sac into the main trunk, although so far there has been no evidence of embolism following their use. The treatment is probably useless after the aneurism has become diffused by the yielding of its sac.