r ^128 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. painlessuess and the absence of any relation to rest and movement ; whilst fiom the ha3matuna due to a tumour it differs in its small amount ;nr t p nod ot inci.ased frequency of micturition which usually precedes ite firs occurrence In the later stages, when ulceration has occurred, the symptom are those o chronic cystitis. The act of micturition is frequent and the pal severe Ihe urine contains pus, often in considerable quantity. At tS stage the symptoms may closely resemble those of stone, and often the dia7 nosis IS based chiefly upon the coexistence of tuberculous disease elsewher! more especially in the kidneys, prostate and testes. The bacillus tuberculosi; can occasionally be demonstrated in the pus in the urine. Cystoscopic ex- ammation may be useful as a means of diagnosis (p. 1110). The gravity of the case and the intensity of the patient's sufferings are much increased It the tuberculous affection become complicated with septic cystitis The prognosis is necessarily grave, especially if the affection of the bladder forms only part of a genito-urinary tuberculosis. In some cases, however, the course of the disease is very slow, and cure may undoubtedly occur as the result ot local and constitutional treatment. Treatment.—When the existence of early tuberculous disease of the bladder is suspected the general treatment should be carried out on the lines indicated m Vol. I., p. 1099. Guyon recommends, even in the early stages before symptoms of ulceration are present, instillations of perchloride of mercury. The solutions employed vary in strength from 1 in 200 to 1 in 1,000 and the amount injected from 10 to 40 drops. The bladder is emptied'with a catheter and the injection made with a small syringe ; it may be repeated every few days. In the later stages of the disease much may be done to relieve the pain and irritation by washing out the bladder ; and by the use of iodoform con- siderable improvement may sometimes be produced. Boric acid lotion will be found one of the most useful injections, and iodoform can best be introduced in the form of an emulsion. Berkeley Hill advised the following :—Iodoform 2 parts, mucilage 4 parts, glycerine 2 parts, w^ater 20 parts ; two drachms to be injected once or twice a day. If the passage of the catheter and the Wcishing out of the bladder cause much pain, a drachm of 5 per cent, solution of cocaine may be first injected. Cystotomy may be required in cases in which the simpler methods of treatment have failed, and in which the pain and irritability of the bladder are seriously affecting the patient's health. Not only does the drainage relieve the patient's symptoms, but by putting the bladder at rest the operation favours the healing of the ulcers, and also enables the Surgeon to treat the diseased surface directly. Median cystotomy is the simplest method, and this is probably the best treatment when the operation is undertaken merely as a palliative in advanced cases. In favourable cases, however, supra- pubic cystotomy should be preferred, as it allows a more thorough examination; and, if necessary, the ulcerated surface can be scraped and treated with iodoform. In a few cases this has been done with considerable success. In the female, direct treatment of the ulcers can be carried out after simple dilatation of the urethra, or by the use of Kelly's cystoscope.