530 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FACE AND NECK, of the sterno-inastoid or otlicr muscles of the neck, such as the trapezius o splenius. The spasm may be completely iotermittent, each attack coming on suddenly with f>reat pain and the affected muscles relaxing again after a variable time. In cases of loug standing the spasm is liable to become tonic and finally some permanent retraction of the muscle results. In the earlio'- stages the spasm may be overcome by gentle traction and disappears entirely when the patient is antesthetized. Tn cases in which the sterno-mastoid or trapezius is affected, it is probable that the spinal accessory nerve is at fault or that the spasm may result from some central lesion. An interesting case probably of this nature has been recorded by Poore. The muscles chiefly affected were the left sterno-mastoid and the right splenius capitis, which are associated in turning the head to the right. The sternal head of the sterno- mastoid had been divided with only temporary relief. The patient had Lad syphilis. Thsre was a small scar on the scalp close to the middle line and near the left coronal suture, a position which agrees with Ferrier's centre for rotation of the head to the opposite side. Complete relief followed a coui s..- of mercury; otherwise it had been decided to trephine over the position of tli<- scar, on the supposition that some meningeal thickening beneath this miglit be the cause of the spasm. When the spasm affects the deep posterior muscles of the neck it is the posterior cervical nerves which are probably at fault. Hysterical torticolhs is occasionally met with in young females who exhibit other evidences of functional disorder. In these cases the head may assume any position, but often it is flexed laterally and the shoulder raised. The disappearance of the deformity under an anaesthetic and the general features of the case will usually serve to indicate its nature. The Symptoms vary considerably in different cases. When the deformity arises from retraction of one sterno-mastoid, a triple displacement of the head results ; it is drawn downwards towards the shoulder of the affected side, whilst the face is turned to the opposite side and slightly upwards. The affected sterno-cleido-mastoid will be found hard, defined, and shortened ; sometimes both divisions of the muscle are equally tense, standing out in strong relief, so as to look almost like two distinct muscles. In other cases, one division, and then more usually the sternal, is chiefly affected. After a time the cervical vertebrse participate in and maintain the displacement, becoming rotated on their axes and curved. Eventually the whole spinal column shares in the displacement, and lateral curvature sets in. The deeper muscles also become shortened, and the anterior margin and clavi- cular attachment of the trapezius will often be found tense and preternaturally defined. In well-marked cases of torticollis the features lose their symmetry, and the lines of the eye-brows, eyes, and mouth are lower on the side towards which the head is inchned. In advanced cases the whole side of the face and even of the head may be distinctly flattened. This asymmetry of the face is the result of imperfect development when the torticollis occurs in infants ; but it has been observed to occur when the torticollis arises in adults, and under these circumstances it has been suggested that it is due to impaired nutrition • from interference with the circulation through the carotid on the contracted side. In spasmodic torticollis the position which the head assumes during the attacks of spasm will depend upon which muscles are affected. Spasm of one