l-mCTS OF ENLARGED I'BOSTATE ON URINARY ORGANS. 1.43 „viv occui- from the posterior part of one of the lateral lobes, or from that ;rtion o" the gland which lies above or in front of the mner office of the ™re instances, the verumontannm alone appears to be affected forming .thickened polypoid ontgrowth, which projects in a valvnlai mannei, and ini-prfprps materiallv with the flow of iiriue. Th:^^^^^^^^^^^ out that, as had been sug-ges^d by Peau^^^^^^ uialo-ies exist between these prostatic outgrowths and the fibioid tumours ot- thfuterus. This view is in accordance with the theory that the prostatic utricle is the analogue of the uterus. _ Mechanical Effects of Enlarged Prostate on the Urinary Organs.- Enlargements of the prostate are productive of inconvenience with regard to the flow of urine, giving rise either to retention or to incontinence, or to a kind of mixture of both conditions. When the hiteral lobes are enlarged, there is a diminution of the lateral or transverse diameter of the urethra, at the same time that the antero- posterior diameter is increased, so that the canal becomes a chink-like passage. The urethra also becomes greatly elongated and tortuous ; and is diverted from the natural •lirection—this varying with the form of en- largement. When the median portion is en- larged, there is a more or less angular curvature of the canal at the prostatic point. When, in addition, there is enlargement of one lateral lobe, the urethra is curved also laterally in the direction of the enlarged lobe. The lateral deviation may occur also when there is en- largement of the middle lobe ; but it then afl'ects both sides. , The inner orifice of the urethra also undergoes changes. Enlargement ot the posterior part of the middle portion of the prostate gives it a crescentic form, with the convexity directed upwards ; and, in enlargement of either lateral lobe, the convexity of the crescent lies towards the side opposite the enlarged lobe. Sometimes, when there are two or more irregularly enlarged lobes^the orifice is very much distorted, elongated, and tortuous. In cases ot valvular or pedunculated projections from the posterior portions, the orifice may appear to be overlapped altogether. This condition existed in the case from which the accompanying drawing (Fig. 903) was taken ; the third, or median lobe forming a pedunculated tumour which acted like a valve and obstructed the exit of the urine from the bladder, though it did not offer any obstacle to the introduction of a catheter. The elongation and expansion of the prostatic portion of the urethra give rise to an increase in its capacity, so that it sometimes holds two or three ounces of urine ; and the elongation will carry the neck of the bladder upwards and behind the pubes, to a considerable distance from its normal position. While the lateral enlargements cause the urethra to assume a somewhat tor- tuous course, the middle lobe, if hypertrophied, may readily occasion retention. Fj<r 903.—Bladder laid open, showing Enlnrgeineut of Uretlintl Portion of Prostate. ft