672 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE PALATE. without the soft bcino- cleft. The mode of origin of these deformities ha« idready been described (p. ()(;2). ^ These malformations necessarily give rise to great inconvenience, hv intov ermg with deglutition, and rendering speech nasal and imperfect. During the swallowing of fluids, there is a tendency to regurgitation through the uom though this IS occasionally prevented by the a])proximation of the edffes of tlJ fissure in the soft palate. An infant born with a complete cleft of the hard and soft palate Ik necessarily unable to suck, and unless carefully fed by hand will soon die It must be fed solely on milk, the mother's milk being the best, which may be drawn periodically and administered to the child. The feeding may be done by a properly constructed bottle, from which the milk will flow slowly without the necessity of sucking on the part of the child ; this must be fitted with an india-rubber tube, which must be pushed well to the back of the pharynx as the milk is given. In the absence of a bottle the child may be fed by means of a tea-spoon. Operations for the cure of cleft palate were formerly deferred until the patient had attained the age to understand the necessity of remaining quiet during the proceed- ing, and was able to control his movements, as success depended in a great measure upon his remaining perfectly steady during the neces- sary manipulations, and upon his assisting the Surgeon by opening his mouth, and not strug- gling during the introduction of instruments. Chloroform was never administered, from the fear that suflFocation might be caused by the blood from the operation, which is always abundant, entering the air-passages. In 1869, however, Thomas Smith demonstrated that with proper care anaesthetics may be safely admmis- tered, and at the same time he invented a most ingenious gag, by means of which the patient's mouth can be kept widely open without the Surgeon being interfered with either by the hands of assistants or the instrument itself. By the help of this gag, and the adminis- tration of chloroform, the operation can now be performed at any age ; but as the bleeding is always very free, it is advisable not to attempt it in too young children. If the cleft implicates the soft palate only, it may safely be closed at the age of three if the health is good and other conditions favour- able. The operation has been successfully performed as early as the first year, and the advantage of having it done before the child has learned to speak justifies early operation in suitable cases. If the hard palate is involved, it is better to wait till the sixth or seventh year. Operations for Cleft Falate>—Stapkylorrhaphij, or the operation for the cure of a cleft in the soft palate, may be said to have been first established as a definite surgical proceeding by Eoux, whilst wanoplasly, or the closure of a cleft of the hard palate, was first performed by Warren, of Boston, and brought before the profession in this country by Avery and Pollock. Many changes and improvements in these operations have been made by Sedillot, Dieflfenbach, Liston, Fergusson, Pollock, T. Smith, and others. Fig. 733.- -Flssiire of Hard and Soft Palate.