199 AJILLARY ANEURISM. arose from internal aneurism—the tumour had increased somewhat towards the chest. Since this Holden and Heath have performed the operation, but without success. In both cases, however, the aneurism was traumatic in its origin, and had attained a large size before amputation was practised. Hence the chances of consolidation and cure were materially lessened. Ligature of the Vertebral Artery.—This difficult operation was first performed on the living body by Smyth of New Orleans for the arrest of regurgitant hgemorrhage after ligature of the innominate for subclavian aneurism (p. 194). I will give the details of the operation in his own words :—" The head of the patient being thrown back and slightly turned to the left, an incision two inches in length was made along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid muscle, commencing at the point where the external jugular vein crosses this muscle and terminating a little above the clavicle ; the edge of the muscle being exposed and drawn to the inner side, the prominent anterior tubercle of the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra was readily felt and taken for a guide. Immediately before this and in a vertical line with it lies the artery. A layer of fascia was now divided; some loose cellular tissue with lymphatics and the ascending cervical artery were pulled to the inner side; and a separation was made between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles just below their insertion into the tubercle, when the artery and vein became visible ; the latter was drawn to the outer side (this is important), and the needle passed around the former from without inwards." In 1881, Alexander of Liverpool suggested ligature of the vertebral as a means of curing or relieving epilepsy, and performed the operation in several cases with apparent benefit, but the improvement was merely temporary and he abandoned the treatment. ANEURISM OF THE AXILLARY ARTERY. This artery, though less commonly the seat of aneurism than other large vessels, such as those of the ham, the groin, and the neck, yet is not un- frequently diseased. This is due chiefly to its proximity to the shoulder-joint which causes it to be subjected to very extensive, and often forcible movements. Amongst the most frequent causes of axillary aneurism, may be mentioned falls upon the shoulder or upon the outstretched hands, and in many cases the eflForts to reduce old standing dislocations, instances of which are recorded by Pelletan, Flaubert, Warren, and Gibson, the head of the bone in these cases havmg probably contracted adhesions to the artery. Axillary, like subclavian aneurism, occurs more commonly on the right than on the left side ; of 37 cases, only 3 occurred in women. Furner of Brighton has recorded a case in which both axillary arteries were affected, an interval of about fifteen months intervening between the formation of the two aneurisms ; the sub- clavian was ligatured on both sides successfully. Symptoms.—In axillary aneurism there are three sets of symptoms : the existence of a tumour in the axilla, the pain that it occasions, and the affections to which it gives rise in the limb. The tumour, which is at first soft and compressible, has usually a whizzing bruit ; and its pulsations, which are expansile, may be arrested by pressure upon the subclavian artery, where it passes over the first rib. It usually increases with great rapidity, owing to the little resistance opposed by the loose areolar tissue in this situation, and most commonly extends downwards and forwards, causing