9°4 INTJ^STINAL OnSTlWCTlON. place at periods varying from two weeks to two months, most commonly fm. exhaustion, but occasionally from perforation of the bowel andSn i? Ihe gu may give way immediately above the occluded point/but m '; commonly perforation occurs in the c^cum, even when the obstructionTs some distance from that part. ^ Causes and Varieties of Chronic Obstruction—Stricture of tli Large Intestine is by far the most frequent cause of chronic obstruction In the rectum, simple, syphihtic, and cancerous strictures are common, and wSi be described in the chapter on Diseases of the Rectum. In 44 strictu^s seated below the ileo-caecal valve and above the rectum, Treves found that 28 cancerous, 18 simple, and 3 of doubtful nature. Cancer occurs with abou equal frequency in males and females, but simple strictures in this country ar. more common in females. In 98 cases collected by Coupiand, Morris, A^l and Ireves, the situation of the stricture was as follows : sigmoid flexure ?8 descending colon, 11 splenic flexure, 7 ; transverse colon, 7 • hepatic flexure, 9 ; ascending colon, 2 ; and c^cum, 4. The simple sLrictu're of the great intestine is the result of the healing of some non-malignant ulcer most commonly dysenteric, less frequently syphilitic. The malignant stricture is almost invariably a columnar carcinoma. Colloid is said also to be occasionally met with as a result of degeneration of a columnar carcinoma. Glandular cancer probably never occurs primarily in the great intestine. Cancerous tumours m the intestine are often of very slow growth. They tend to extend circularly round the gut, and thus to narrow its lumen. Secondary growths are frequently absent throughout. When they occur they affect the lymphatic glands, and less frequently the liver. As the growth advances it invades neighbouring parts, and at the same time degenerates and ulcerates in its centre. Thus, in some cases communications have been estabhshed between the bladder and the gut, or between the great and small intestine. Perforation is very rare, as adhesions form before the growth penetrates the wall of the gut. In all cases of stricture, whether simple or malignant, the gut is dilated above the narrowed part, and its muscular coat hypertrophied, a condition which can frequently be recognized by examination of the abdomen. Ulcera- tion of the mucous membrane immediately above the stricture is rare, but in the cacum it is very common, even when the obstruction is seated in the lower part of the colon. The formation of these " stercoral ulcers," as they are called, is apparently the result of the irritation and pressure of the accumulated feeces. Simple Tumours growing within the Bowel very rarely cause obstrua tion. Tubular adenomata and papillomata are the most common simple tumours of the intestine, but if we exclude those growing in the rectum, they are extremely rare. Fibromata, springing from the submucous tissue, fibro- myomata, lipomata and angiomata have also been described, but they are merely pathological curiosities. Narrowing of the Gut by pressure from without is a more frequent cause of obstruction of the great intestine. Under this heading may be in- cluded pressure from inflammatory products, as in pelvic cellulitis or in pcri- typhlitic or perinephritic abscess, and invasion or compression of the gut by malignant growths in neighbouring parts, as by a cancer of the tail of the pancreas, sarcomata in the iliac fossa, &c. The Special Symptoms of Narrowing of the Great Intestine are the