TREATMENT OF GENU VALGUM. 543 c splint is attached to the limb by broad straps above and below the knee, and 3 by another around the ankle, whilst the upper ends of the two splints are [joined by a narrow strap passing behind the pelvis, to prevent their tendency >• to " ride " forwards. l As an alternative, if the greater expense is no drawback, the apparatus I represented in Fig. 640, may be used. This consists of a well-padded iron stem J reaching along the outer side of the limb from the trochanter to the ankle, and attached above to a pelvic band and below to the boot. Where it corresponds to the knee it should be pro- vided with a hinge, and should have a broad well- padded strap passing over the inner side of the joint, and attached by buckles to the stem, in such a way that by tightening these the knee may be drawn outwards. In a 1 cases of genu valgum the feet should be examined, as much benefit may result from proper treat- ment directed to the correction of the condition of flat-foot, which is so often present. In a considerable proportion of the cases of knock-knee occurring in rickety children the deformity can be arrested in its early stages by the simple means above described, and often the, position of the limb becomes gradually much improved. The cases in which the deformity results from relaxation of the ligaments often require no further treatment than support to the limb, and the adoption of measures directed to the improvement of the health. In the more advanced cases, however, operative interference may be required. It is very rarely necessary in young children, and indeed should not as a rule be undertaken in patients under ten. Before that age the deformity can usually be corrected by simpler means, and it is an objection to operative interference before the rickety process has been recovered from, that relapse is very likely to take place. The only operative treatment for genu valgum which will be considered here is antiseptic osteotomy. Forcible straightening of the limb, as practised by Delore of Lyons, is too uncertain and dangerous a method to be recom- mended, whilst no possible good can be expected from subcutaneous division of the biceps tendon for the relief of a deformity due to an alteration in the bone. Antiseptic osteotomy has for its object the restoration of the inner condyle to its normal level. It is impossible here to do more than mention many of the methods that have been employed with this object. In 1875, general Pig. 641.—Genu Valgum: «, line of division iu Mac- ewen's operation ; h, ■ iu Ogston's operation. Fig. 642. — Mac- ewen's osteo- tome.