532 DEFORMITIES AFFECTING THE FACE AND NECK. the first puncture here. After division of the tendon, the deep fascia of the neck will sometimes be found stretching across in firm and tense bands; these, however, had better not be interfered with, as they will yield in time', and great risk of injuring the subclavian and carotid vessels would attend any attempt at their division. Nor should the edge of the knife ever be turned inwards. Care must be taken to divide the muscle completely, but not to carry the incision too freely or deeply. I have heard of more than one case in which, from want of due precaution, abundant hgemorrhage occurred, and of three in which a fatal result followed the operation. The dangers of the subcutaneous division of the sterno-mastoid can be avoided, and the operation performed more thoroughly, by means of the open method. This consists in making a short transverse incision over the muscle about one finger's breadth above the clavicle. The muscle is then carefully divided as completely as may be necessary with forceps and scalpel. If the open method be adopted with careful antiseptic precautions, it is certainly in every way superior to the subcutaneous mode of division. After the operation the head must be maintained in the best possible posi- tion by the use of a suitable apparatus. The complicated instruments which consist of a spinal support with an arrangement of pads, by which pressure can be brought to bear upon the head in different directions, have been dis- carded almost entirely in favour of simpler means. One of the best methods consists in applying a plaster jacket in the same way as for spinal disease, and moulding a poroplastic cap to the head, or fixing a stout strip of plaster circularly around it. The head is then kept in position by the use of one or more india-rubber cords, which are attached by one end to the cap or strap- ping, and by the other to a hook in the plaster jacket. Several hooks should be fixed to the jacket so that the direction of the traction on the head may be altered at will. As a rule one band should be so arranged that it exerts its traction in the line of the sterno-mastoid muscle opposite to that which has been divided. Manipulation and massage will much assist in rectifying the position. In the treatment of spasmodic iorticollis any condition which might act upon the muscle reflexly must be sought for and relieved. A thorough trial must be given to the constant current and massage, whilst it is of much importance to attend to the condition of the general health. When the sterno-mastoid is affected, the spasm has been relieved for a while by dividing the muscle, but, if any operative interference be necessary, the choice must lie between stretching and excision of the spinal accessory nerve. Of these methods the latter is to be preferred, and neurectomy should certainly be performed if other measures have failed to relieve the spasm. The nerve is best reached by an incision along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, beginning at the apex of the mastoid process, and extending downwards for three inches. The edge of the muscle is freely exposed and turned outwards until the nerve is seen entering its deep surface. This it does at a point about two inches below the mastoid, or opposite the angle of the jaw. If any difficulty arise in recognising the nerve, Ballance recommends that the lower border of the digastric be defined in the upper part of the wound ; the spinal accessory escapes from beneath this muscle just below the transverse process of the atlas. An inch or more of the nerve should be excised, and the proximal end thoroughly stretched, or completely avulsed.