L U2IBA R COLO TOMY. porfcunity of putting this opinion to the test of actual practice in 1839, in a private case, at which he kindly invited me, then a student in Paris, to be present. The operation was perfectly successful. Lumbar Colotomy may be performed as follows : If the operation is to be performed in the ordinary situation on the left side, the patient must be placed on his right side, with a firm folded pillow beneath the flank, so that the body may be slightly curved to the right, and the space between the last rib and the crest of the ilium on the left side made as wide as possible. The Surgeon then measures from the anterior superior to the posterior superior spine of the ilium, carrying the tape straight from one to the other, and not along the crest of the ihum. From the mid-point between the two spines (Heath), or half an inch behind it (Allingham), a vertical line is drawn upwards, as in Fig. 817. This indicates the line of the colon. In this line a point is taken exactly mid-way between the last rib and the crest of the ilium. An incision, either transverse or inchned slightly downwards and forwai'ds (Fig. 817), is then made, passing through this point. It must be from three to four inches in length, half on each side of the vertical line. If the measurements have been Pig. SIT.—Line of Incision for Lumbar Colotomy. Dotted line indicates situation of Descending Colon coixectly taken, the posterior extremity of the incision will be at the edge of erector spinaj. In fact the edge of this muscle is practically a better guide than the vertical line just mentioned. The incision is steadily deepened through the skin and superficial fascia by light strokes of the knife. After these are divided, the external oblique comes into view in the anterior two- thirds of the wound, and the latissimus dorsi in the posterior third ; these are divided by drawing the knife lightly along the wound, and the internal oblique is then exposed and cut through in the same way. The fascia lum- borum now comes into view. This is the first important rallying point. It must be picked up carefully with the dissecting forceps, and opened with the knife held horizontally ; the finger, guiding a probe-pointed bistoury, may then be introduced through the opening, and the fascia lumborum divided freely m the whole length of the wound. At this stage the last dorsal nerve and the artery accompanying it are usually divided, and the vessel must be twisted or tied. The incision through the fascia lumborum always opens the sheath of the quadratus lumborum, the external border of which must be freely notched if it obstruct the wound. In dividing the muscles, two points must be attended to : first, that these structures are cut through to the same extent as the skin, otherwise the Surgeon will continue to dig in a deep and