TREATMENT OF FILES: CAUTERY. 985 by proper diet and small doses of opium. The pain which necessarily attends the passage of the first motion may be lessened by the use of a cocaine suppository and a small oil enema. In the after-treatment of the case,' care must be taken to prevent the recur- rence of those causes that gave rise to the affection in the first instance. After piles have been tied, more particularly if they be seated towards the anterior part of the rectum, great irritation is frequently set up about the neck of the bladder, so that the patient experiences diificulty in passing his urine, and sometimes suffers from complete retention ; a full dose of hyoscyamus and nitrous ether will sometimes relieve this, but if it fails, a catheter must be passed. In some cases, where the external piles are very large and vascular, and the patient debihtated, the ordinary rule of cutting them off:" may advan- tageously be deviated from, and a combination of the treatment by excision aud ligature adopted. In such cases an incision may be made through the integuments merely, and then the piles tied in the course of the groove thus formed. By these means the pain and constitutional disturbance consequent on the inclusion of a portion of the integument in the ligature are avoided, at the same time that the risk of hsemorrhage is not incurred. The treatment of piles by ligature is not altogether free from danger in Fig. 829.—Smith's Clamp. persons of broken constitution. I have more than once known death from pyaemia result in these cases. The application of chloride of zinc and iodoform as above described is all we can do to lessen this danger. Cautery.—Piles may be removed with but little fear of haemorrhage by the method introduced by H. Smith. The preparation of the patient and the preliminary dilatation of the sphincter are conducted in the same way as in the operation with the ligature. The pile is drawn down with spring-forceps and seized in a clamp (Fig. 829), which is tightened by means of a screw in the handles. The projecting part of the pile is burnt off with the blunt point of Paquelin's cautery at a dull-red heat. The clamp is then very slowly relaxed, and should any bleeding occur as it becomes loose, it is again tightened, and the cautery applied once more. The charred tissue held by the clamp may be touched with chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to 5]'), and dusted Avith iodoform. The operation is usually followed by less pain than the ligature, • and gives equally satisfactory results. The use of the cautery is especially applicable to those cases in which the piles are granular and but little pedun- culated, and perhaps associated with a considerable tendency to prolapse of the mucous membrane. Excision of affected Mucous Membrane.—In 1876 Whitehead of Manchester revived the abandoned operation of excision with so many modi- fications as to make it altogether a new proceeding. He contends that internal piles are never to be regarded as distinct localised tumours, amenable It