TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS. i279 .( por •onsisfc of fibrous and of unstripecl muscular tissue combined in varying pro- po^tbns and hence constituting growths of varying density accordmg to the relative preponderance of one or the other of these component elemen s. The onUmry filro-myoma {hard filroid), occurring either singly or as multiple formations in the body of the uterus, is characterized _ by a marked excels of the fibrous elements, which are commonly arranged in concentric bundles around one or numerous centres. The growth, of a more or less dis- tinctly circumscribed nature, is usually directly continuous at one point with the uterine tissues, but is elsewhere surrounded by a layer of areolar structure, constituting what is known as its capside. This latter contains numerous ramifyino- Vessels, often of considerable size ; but the vascular supply to the substance of the tumour, derived from vessels entering it at its uterine base, is as a rule comparatively scanty-a fact which accounts for the slow rate'at which these tumours generally grow. The comparatively rare type of tumour known as a soft fibroid, or true uterine myoma, and characterized structurally by a very great preponderance of mus- cular tissue, partakes more of the nature of a hypertrophic growth, inasmuch as its substance merges gradually into that of the surrounding uterine wall. A condition of this sort generally gives rise to a symmetrical tumour, which Arrows very rapidly, in consequence of its great vascularity, and is accompanied by profuse uterine haemorrhage. In the great majority of cases, ordinary fibro-myomatous disease of the uterus gives rise to no symptoms warranting surgical interference of any kind. The normal tendency ©f these tmnours is to grow slowly until the age of the menopause is reached, and then gradually to undergo a process of natural involution, consequent upon their diminished vascularity, until they finally disappear completely. In a comparatively small proportion of instances, however, active treatment may become necessary as the best means of saving life under one or more of the following conditions, viz., persistent and uncontrollable uterine hgemorrhage ; severe pain or other serious pressure symptoms caused by pelvic outgrowths ; rapid increase in the size of an abdominal tumour (sometimes due to cystic or other degenerative changes). In considering the question of surgical ireatment, the ordinary classification of intramm-al or interstitial, subperitoneal, and submucous growths may con- veniently be followed, always with the understanding that the two last-named are secondary developments of the intramural variety, the terms " subperitoneal" and "submucous" indicating the direction followed by the original growth in the process of its gradual extrusion from the substance of the uterine wall. As a general rule, it may be stated that the amount of uterine hEemorrhage induced by fibro-myomata is proportionate to the degree of enlargement of the uterine cavity caused by their presence, and is further dependent upon the propinquity of any growth to the mucous membrane lining the cavity. Thus, a peduncu- lated subperitoneal tumour may exist without the occurrence of any unusual menstrual loss, while a comparatively insignificant submucous or polypoid growth often gives rise to most persistent and alarming hsemorrhage. The Diagnosis of a uterine tumour, apart from the symptoms of pain and haemorrhage already alluded to, is to be arrived at by physical examination— notably by combined abdominal and vaginal (or rectal) palpation—by which means the consistence and contour of the growth are to be made out, and its continuity with the uterus definitely ascertained.