TENOSYNOVITIS. 5" DISEASES OF SHEATHS OF TENDONS. The synovial sheath of a tendon is liable to acute and chronic inflammatory conditions which in many respects resemble the affections of the synovial membrane of joints. Certain cysts known as " ganglia " also arise in connexion with tendon sheaths. The tendons of the hand are most Hable to these aflFections. Acute Teno-synovitis.—Acute inflammation of the sheaths of tendons is usually the result of a strain or other shght injury. It is especially apt^ to occur in rheumatic and gouty subjects, sometimes without any obvious exciting cause. Acute teno-synovitis is especially common in the extensor tendons at the wrist, as the result of strains or twists of the hand ; it is very common in the extensor muscles of the thumb from feathering the oar in rowing. The tendon of the long head of the biceps may be affected. In this affection there is swelling of a puffy character, with tenderness when the part is pressed on or moved. Usually a pecuhar fine crackling sensation is communicated to the Surgeon's hand when he examines the affected part, caused by the presence of sUght effusion into the inflamed sheath. The Treatment consists in fixing the part by the use of a splint and apply- ing glycerine and behadonna with hot flannel fomentations. This treatment may be followed by the application of gentle pressure bj means of a bandage. Should the condition tend to become chronic the application of blisters or the mercury and ammoniacum plaster will be found very useful. Cheoxic Teno-synovitis.—This condition, which is often spoken of as 'Uomjmind ganglion,"" consists in a chronic effusion into the sheath of a tendon without any manifest signs of inflammation. It is analogous to chronic synovitis of a joint. The sheath is often thickened as well as dilated, and the contained fluid is clear and yellowish in colour. In some cases the sheath itself is very vascular, and lined by a red, fringed, and velvety membrane ; the fluid may then be dark and bloody, and contain masses of buff-coloured fibrin or a large number of "melon-seed bodies," like those met with in certain forms of bursse. In two cases Nicaise has demonstrated the presence of tubercle nodules in the diseased synovial membrane, and it is now generally believed that, in many cases at least, this condition is tuberculous ; the changes are strictly analogous to those found in the variety of tuberculous joint disease known as " tubercu- lous hydrops" (p. 346). Tuberculous inflammation of a tendon sheath may also occur in a form similar to that usually met with in joints. The sheath becomes distended with pulpy granulation-tissue which may undergo caseation with the formation of chronic abscess. Symptoms.—Chronic teno-synovitis is met with chiefly in the palm of the hand, but it has been observed on the dorsum, sole or inner side of the foot. The swelling may attain a considerable size, and then usually becomes irregular in shape, owing to several sheaths being affected. When the common sheath of the flexor tendons of the fingers is distended by a chronic effusion, the swelling projects above and below the anterior annular ligament of the wrist, which forms a transverse groove on its surface. Chronic teuo- synovitis at the wrist may be the first indication in some cases of disease of the bones of the carpus, as the sheaths come into close contact with the