TREATMENT OF CYSTS OF THE PANCREAS. 945 CYSTS OF THE PANCREAS. lu 1885 Senn of Chicago published an account of eleven cases of cyst of the pancreas, one of which was diagnosed and successfully operated on by himself. Since that time a considerable number of cases have been recorded, many of which have been treated by operation with complete success. A pancreatic cyst forms a tumour which may reach a great size, and contain several pints of fluid. It occupies chiefly the epigastric and left hypochondriac regions, and as it increases it tends to push the stomach forw^ards and upwards and the transverse colon downwards. It reaches the surface above the umbilicus, being covered in front by the great omentum. In addition to the swelling there is almost invariably abdominal pain, often with vomiting, and sometimes with jaundice from pressure on the bile-duct. In a considerable number of the recorded cases the appearance of the swelling has followed a more or less severe injury to the abdomen. Thus in Jacobson and Pitt's case the patient, a man aged twenty-one, had been kicked in the abdomen three years previously; he was confined to his bed for three weeks, and ever since had been liable to attacks of abdominal pain ; and in a case recorded by Littlewood, of Leeds, the epigastric swelling was noticed two days after the patient was stamped on by a horse. The fluid contained in a pancreatic cyst is alkaline, and has a specific gravity of 1010 to 1020 ; it is generally turbid, of a greenish or brownish colour, and contains albumen with traces of the ferments usually present in pancreatic juice. Little is known regarding the mode of formation of these cysts. When they are traumatic in origin it seems probable that laceration of the gland with haemorrhage occurs, and that this is followed by escape of the secretion from the torn ducts. In the cases in which there is no evidence of injury it has been suggested that a retention cyst forms as the result of some obstruction of the duct. That the disease is simple in nature seems certain from the after- history of some of the cases which have been operated on, but it is important to note that in a case which was treated by Pearce Grould there was an infiltration of hard growth around the fistula which still existed three years after the operation, and enlargement of the inguinal and axillary glands. The characters of the tumour have been sufficient in several cases to establish the diagnosis. In females the cysts have most commonly been mistaken for ovarian tumours ; whilst among other conditions with which they have been confounded are hydatid of the liver, cysts of the peritoneum, and retroperitoneal sarcoma. Jacobson suggests that in a doubtful case valuable information might be obtained by distending the stomach and colon with gas. Treatment.—Although aspiration has produced a cure in some instances, and has frequently been adopted as a means of diagnosis, it is dangerous, and had better be abandoned in favour of an exploratory incision. In a case recorded by Oathcart, rupture of the cyst into the peritoneal cavity followed simple puncture. The treatment usually adopted has consisted in making a median incision above the umbilicus, and then exposing the cyst by dividing the omentum below the stomach. The contents are next partially withdrawn with an aspirator or trochar, and the cyst drawn up to the abdominal incision. Finally the cyst is opened, the edges of the opening sutured to the wound, and a