SPECIAL IIERNLK. Relations of Oblique Hernia.-The relations of the spermatic cor^ . testis, and ol; .the epigastric artery, to an inguinal hernia, ar ol ^at^ ^^^^^^^^^^^ ance. T\^^ SJ,o,■mahccord^v\\\ ahnost invariably be found to be sit^-XtlT or j.ther^u,Klerneath the oblique inguinal hernia ; and tl!: uJ^^^!^ ■ to lie at Its lower and back part, where it may always be distinctly m t we cases the elements of the spermatic cord become separated, he deferens lying on one side, and the spermatic vessels on the other lu otW still rarer cases a specimen of which is in the University College Museum hernia lies behind the cord and has the testis in front. In other cases It may happen that the elements of the cord are all separately spread ouC he back of the hernial tumour. The .;.^..s-/n. artery has the ime rela iong to the oblique ingumal hernia that it has to the spermatic cord, lying TtZ inner side of and behind its neck. The pressure of large and old inguinal hernise has, however, a tendency to modify somewhat the relations of this vessel. By distending the rings, and dragging the posterior wall downwards and inwards, they shorten the canal, and cause a great deflection of the arterv irom Its natural course, which is changed from an oblique direction to one curved downwards and inwards, towards the outer edge of the rectus muscle The sac of an mgumal hernia may be formed by the unobliterated funicular portion of the processus vaginalis (p. 868), which retains its communication with the peritoneum but is shut oflF from the tunica vaginalis below To such a hernia the name "ftmicular'' is applied. Clinically it does not differ from an ordinary acquired inguinal hernia, and it is probable that in children it is the most common form of hernia. The sac is usually very thin, and intimatelv connected with the structures of the spermatic cord. Direct Inguinal Hernia.—This does not pass out like the obhque through the internal abdominal ring, but pushes forwards through a triangular space, which is bounded by the epigastric artery on the outer side, the edge of the rectus on the inner, and the crural arch at its base ; through this the hernial tumour protrudes, pushing before it or rupturing the posterior wall of the inguinal canal. Coverings of Direct Hernia.—These vary according to the length of the canal that the hernia traverses, and the portion of the posterior wall through which it protrudes. In fact, there are at least two distinct forms of dire'ct inguinal hernia, which differ in their relation to the obliterated hypogastric artery. One, the more common variety, is situated internal to the cord-like remains of this vessel, between it and the outer edge of the rectus. The other is situated outside this vessel, between it and the epigastric artery. In the form of direct inguinal hernia which lies internal to tlie hi/pogastric artery, the protrusion takes place through that part of the posterior wall of the inguinal canal which is situated almost behind and opposite to the external ring. In this situation, the investments successively received by the hernia are, first, the peritoneum, the subperitoneal fat, and the fascia transversalis : it then comes into contact with the conjoined tendons of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles, which it may either rupture or push before it, thinned out and expanded. Most frequently these are ruptured, constituting- a partial investment to the protrusion, which is most evident on the innermost part of the sac, that which is nearest the mesial line. As the hernia passes- through the external ring, it receives from it the intercolumuar fascia, and lastly, it is invested by the common fascia and integuments.