204 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. safer to tie this also, as the anastomosis of the vessels in this re<iion is so abundant that the risk of gangrene from the obliteration of a single branch would be very small. The operation just described is that commonly adopted. In order that it should be easily carried out, it is in the first place necessary that the shoulder should be depressed as far as possible, so as to bring the clavicle down. This is a matter of much importance ; for, if the clavicle be thrust upwards by the pressure of a large aneurism, or if it he high in consequence of emphysema of the lungs, the Surgeon will have to find the artery at the bottom of a deep wound, instead of on a comparatively plane surface. If, therefore, the clavicle cannot be thoroughly depressed, more room must be provided in the superficial parts of the wound. This is done by making a vertical incision upwards either along the border of the sterno-mastoid or from the middle of the wound for about tM'o inches. As the artery is in these cases approached rather from above than from the front, the structures met with differ some- what from those already described. The posterior belly of the omo-hyoid is always exposed, and forms an important rallying point in the operation, and the transverse cervical artery and vein will most commonly come into view. The danger of including the lowest cord of the brachial plexus is greater the more the artery is approached fi-om above. The vertical incision should always be made in fat subjects. In some cases the clavicle may lie so high that the artery cannot be exposed even with the help of the vertical incision. A case occurred to Astley Cooper, in which the attempt to ligature the subclavian artery for a large aneurism of the axilla had to be abandoned, in consequence of the clavicle being thrust up to too great a height to allow him to reach the vessel. The extent of the difficulty occasioned by this elevation of the clavicle must necessarily depend in a great measure upon the height at which the subclavian artery happens in any particular case to be situated in the neck. It is not uncom- mon to find it pulsating so high in the neck that no amount of elevation of the clavicle by a subjacent axillary aneurism could raise that bone above the level of the vessel. In the majority of cases, however (in seventeen out of twenty-five, as shown by Quain,) it is either below the level of the bone, or but slightly raised above it ; so that, if the clavicle were thrust upwards and forwards, the vessel would be buried in a deep pit behind it. Dupuytren was of opinion that the artery coursed high in persons who were thin, with slender long necks ; whereas, in thick, short-necked persons, with muscular shoulders, it M'as deeply seated. I have often verified the truth of this observation, both in dissection and in examining the pulsations of the vessel during life. In order to obviate the difficulty that has occasionally been experienced in reaching the artery when thus buried behind an elevated clavicle, it wap proposed by Hargrave to saw through the bone. The most serious objection that can be raised against this practice, is the fact that the clavicle is some- times a part of the wall of the aneurism : but, supposing the Surgeon could satisfy himself that this was not the case, I cannot see any objection to tliis procedure, provided any insurmountable difficulty presented itself in passing the ligature round the vessel without it. The artery occasionally takes a remarkably high course in the neck, and in some of these instances instead of passing over the first dorsal rib, it is sup-