DISTAL LIGATURE OF THE CAROTID. 177 cerebral circulation, induced by the ligature of the carotid. When a considerable portion of the supply of blood to the brain is suddenly cut off, two sets of symptoms may ensue—one immediate, the other remote. The immediate symptoms are those that generally result from functional disturbance of the brain, consequent upon too small a supply of arterial blood. They consist of syncope, trembling, twitches, giddiness, and impairment of sight. After this condition has been maintained for a few days, the nutrition of the organ becomes materially affected, and softening of the cerebral substance takes place, giving rise to a new and more serious set of symptoms indicative of this pathological condition, such as convulsions, hemiplegia, and death. In other cases congestion may come on, either by the interference with the return of blood through the jugular vein, or as a consequence of that venous turgidity which we commonly observe after the ligature of a main arterial trunk ; or perhaps coma may be induced by apoplectic effusion into a softened portion of the organ. Ligature of the Carotid on the Distal Side of the Sac.—Aneurism of the carotid artery, occurring low in the neck, does not admit of the appH- cation of a Hgature on the cardiac side of the tumour. What, then, is to be done in such a case as this ? Should it be left to the remote chance of a spontaneous cure, or should it be subjected to surgical interference ? Spontaneous cure in carotid aneurism has never yet, I believe, been met with. The Surgeon, therefore, must endeavour to treat the disease by ligature. Two plans of treatment are open to him—either to tie the innominate artery if the tumour be on the right side, or the carotid on the distal side of the tumoui-. The former alternative may fairly be set aside ; for not only are the cases in which it is possible to find room between the sternum and the sac extremely rare, but, even were such an instance to present itself, Surgeons would, I think, scarcely ever be justified in undertaking an operation which has so rarely succeeded (p. 190) ; we are consequently reduced to the alternative of ligaturing the artery on the distal side of the sac. But although this opera- tion is the only alternative that presents itself, yet its application in practice IS attended with serious difficulties ; for the Surgeon must be able to satisfy himself that it is actually an aneurism of the root of the carotid with which he has to do, and that it is not the trunk of the innominate or the arch of the aorta that is affected. The difficulty in doing this is far greater than would at first appear ; for, on examining the details of eight cases in which the distal operation was performed for supposed carotid aneurism, three must be excluded,- as, after death, the tumour was found to arise from the aortic arch. In every case the tumour, immediately on the ligature being tightened, under- went a considerable diminution in its bulk, with corrugation of the integuments covering it, and considerable subsidence in the force of its pulsations. ^ In one ' case—that of Bush—respiration, which before the operation had been greatly embarrassed, became easy ; and in two others inflammation of the sac took place,being m one (that of Wardrop) unattended with bad consequences, and in the other (Demme's case) followed by death. It is not safe to deduce any general conclusion from so small a number of cases ; yet the result of these IS so uniform, that I have no hesitation in stating it as my opinion that ^•lietherwe regard the principle on which this operation is founded, the amount 01 success which has hitherto attended it, the necessarily fatal result of these cases it left to themselves, or the absence of any other means that hold out a VOL, II,