753 INTUBATION OF THE LARYNX. be suspected if the breathing is free under the influence of chloroform whilst the opening in the trachea is closed. The spasm is best overcome by removing the tube periodically for longer or shorter intervals until the patient becomes accustomed to its absence ; or a tube with an opening in its upper part may be used, and the external opening may be plugged with a cork which can be at once removed should dyspnoea occur. If these methods fail, catheterization or intubation of the larynx should be tried. In a case recorded by Bilton Pollard the tracheotomy tube had been worn for nearly two years, and in spite of many kinds of treatment could not be dispensed with. A Macewen's tracheal catheter was introduced and left in for thirty-one hours, after which the breathing was easy, and in fourteen days the tracheotomy wound had healed. An O'Dwyer's intubation tube may be used with advantage in such cases. Paralysis of the abductor muscles has been recorded by Gerhardt, but it is exceedingly rare and its cause is very uncertain. Mechanical ohstruction after tracheotomy may arise from three causes : obstruction by masses of fungating granulation tissue, adhesion of the vocal cords, and cicatricial contraction of the glottis, consequent upon the disease for which the operation was performed. The formation of fungating granulation tissue may occur above the tube, projecting upwards into the larynx, or more rarely below the tube where its point touches the trachea. E. W. Parker has recorded a fatal case of obstruction of the tube by a mass of granulation tissue formed below it. More commonly the granula- tion tissue is above the tube and prevents its removal. The treatment in these cases consists in the application of nitrate of silver, either by means of a coated probe or a brush dipped in a solution of 30 grains to one ounce of water, introduced by the wound. If this fails, a tracheal catheter may be passed through the larynx, and retained for from twenty-four to thirty-six hours, or intubation may be performed. The pressure of the tube destroys the fungating mass. If this fails the parts may be carefully scraped with a sharp spoon, the head being allowed to fall backwards so that blood shall not flow down into the lungs, or as a last resource thyrotomy may be performed and the granulation tissue removed. Chloroform is, of course, required for any of these proceedings. Adhesion of the vocal cords is rare, and is treated by the passage of an instrument upwards from the wound, or by division of the adhesions followed by intubation. Cicatricial contraction commonly occurs in cases of syphilitic disease, and usually resists all simple treatment. In a case of this nature E. C. Stabb perforrned thyrotomy and removed the cicatricial tissue which replaced the true and false vocal cords of the right side, together with a large piece of necrosed cricoid cartilage. The patient made a complete recovery. Intubation of the Larynx.—Since the latter half of the last century various attempts have been made, sometimes with success, to relieve acute or chronic laryngeal obstruction by the passage of a tube from the mouth through the larynx into the trachea. In recent years the utility of " catheterization of the larynx " has been especially demonstrated by Macewen, who, in 1880, pubhshed four cases in which this treatment was adopted. In two instances a catheter was passed through the larynx for the relief of obstruction due to 'cdema of the glottis; both cases recovered. In a third case the tube was used m place of preliminary tracheotomy during the removal of a carcinoma of the tongue and pharynx ; it served its purpose well, the aperture of the larynx VOL. 11. 3 C