"74 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. By Stricture of the Urethra is meant a narrowing of the canal at one or more points. These may proceed from three distinct conditions • 1 Svm medio Action of the involuntary Muscular Fibres situated outside the inucon^ membrane; 2, Congestion of the Mucous Membrane of the canal • or 3 Organic Changes m the Mucous and Submucous Tissues, consisting of thicken' ing, induration, or the deposit of plastic matter within them. According as the disease arises from one or other of these causes, it is termed a Smnirndk ^Congestive, or an Organic stricture. These dilferent forms of stricture' which m practice are often associated, present so much variety in their symptoms, m the treatment they require, and the constitutions in which they occur, as to require separate description. Spasmodic Stricture.—The possession of muscular contractility by the urethra is obvious from the fact that a bougie may occasionally be introduced with sufficient ease, but that the Surgeon, on attempting to withdraw it, will find It tightly grasped ; so, also, occasionally, on introducing the instrument, he will feel it meet with an obstruction, which on steady pressure will yield with that species of quivering which is peculiar to muscular spasm. Again, the fact that a patient will at ope time pass his urine with the most perfect ireedom, whilst, if it be rendered acrid or acid by drinking spirits, efi'ervescent wines, or other similar beverages, almost complete obstruction will ensue, tends to prove the existence of an occasional spasmodic constriction of the canal. The effect of anaesthetics in facilitating the passage of a catheter must also be attributed to relaxation of spasm. The Causes of spasmodic stricture are generally such conditions as occasion an irritable state of system, as long residence in hot climates, especially if con- joined with habitual excesses in drinking, high living and sexual indulgences. The more immediate causes are usually any circumstances that occasion irritation of the urethral mucous membrane, and thus give rise to spasm of the smooth muscular fibres beneath it. The most usual of these are those conditions of the system in which the urates are largely eliminated : as exposure to cold and wet, by which the action of the skin is suspended; or too free an indulgence in spirituous and acid liquors—such as red or effer- vescent wines, beer, or punch. Symptoms.—In spasmodic stricture we find evidence of narrowing of the urethra, and consequent impediment to the free flow of urine, rapidly super- vening under the influence of certain causes, and as speedily subsiding. A patient, for instance, in his ordinary health and passing urine freely, if he take such food or drink as wiU give rise to a very acid condition of this fluid, if he be exposed to cold, or get out of health in any way, suddenly finds himself able to pass his urine only in a small stream by drops with much straining, or may even be seized with complete retention. Under appropriate treatment these symptoms rapidly subside ; recurring, however, on the application of any exciting cause. At the time of the occurrence of this spasm there is a sensation of weight and uneasiness in the perinEeum, with evident irritation of the urethral mucous membrane, as shown by reddening of the lips of the orifice ; in fact, spasm alone without congestion or the presence of some organic nan-owing will never cause actual retention. Treatment.—If the patient be suffering from spasmodic difficulty in passing urine, an injection, consisting of half a drachm of laudanum in a little starch, should be thrown up the rectum, a morphia suppository given, or a full dose of Dover's powder administered, and the warm hip-bath used.