OPERATION FOR FISTULA IN ANO. 973 oil, and an enema administered on the morning of the operation, the patient should be laid on his left side, with the nates projecting over the edge ot the table A flexible probe-pointed director is passed into the external opening and along the track into the rectum, a finger being introduced into the bowel to guide the director through the internal opening. The point of the instru- ment is then brought out of the anus, and the tissue which lies on the director is completely divided. Care should be taken to cut directly and not obhquely on to the director, lest a flap be left which will interfere with the healing of the wound. The hemorrhage in ordinary cases is trivial, but when the track passes deeply, as in a fistula resulting from an ischio-rectal abscess, vessels of considerable size may be divided. In such a case the division of the tissues on to the director should be made by successive short cuts, and any vessels which bleed should be secured with forcipressure forceps and afterwards ligatured. When the external aperture or apertures of the fistula are at some distance from the gut, the integuments being undermined to a considerable extent, perhaps thinned, soft, and bluish, all the superficial sinuses should be slit up with a probe-pointed bistoury ; and, in those cases in which the course of the fistula runs more or less at a right angle to that of the external sinus, it is necessary to do so before the deep or internal fistula can be reached, through which the sphincter must be divided. If the fistula be a Uind external one, it must at the time of the operation be made complete, by pushing the end of the director through the thinned structures that intervene between its extremity and the interior of the gut; and the operation must then be completed in the way described. The Surgeon must not be too ready to conclude that the fistula has no internal opening, as it is important that it should be laid open if it exists. A careful search with a probe should therefore be made in all cases in which an internal aperture is not at once found. If it be a blind internal fistula, a speculum should be inserted, and a bent probe passed through the inner opening of the fistula into the canal. The end of this, which can be felt externally, must be exposed by a puncture made through the integuments with a scalpel, and the operation concluded in the ordinary way. When there is an internal aperture into the gut, this will usually be found just above the sphincter ; the fistula, however, may not terminate here, but frequently extends up by the side of the gut for an inch or two. In these circumstances, what should be done with the cul-de-sac above the inner aperture ? If it be laid open, an extensive wound will be inflicted, which may implicate some of the hgemorrhoidal vessels, and thus give rise to dangerous bleeding. Hence I think it a safer practice for the Surgeon to content himself with the division of all the parts intervening between the inner aperture of the fistula and the verge of the anus ; the sinus which is left usually contracting" and closing without difficulty when this has been done. In some cases, how- ever, it happens that this cul-de-sac is not readily obliterated, but gives rise to a good deal of trouble in consequence of the occasional accumulation of pus in it, and the thickening of its aperture into the bowel causes spasmodic contrac- tion of the sphincter and a kind of rectal stricture. This inconvenience gradually subsides in most cases, under the use of astringent injections or the introduction of a probe coated with nitrate of silver. If the integuments around the fistula have been much undermined so as to leave loose flaps at the edges of the incision, the cure will be materially hastened by cutting these off. The unhealthy granulation tissue lining the- \