1133 CARCINOMA OF THE BLADDER. Lhe tumour be made to bleed it is practically impossible to see anything. If, hoNvever, the bladder can be cleaned without hemorrhage, its cavity may be illuminated by means of a lamp and mirror, or, better still, by a small Incandescent electric lamp passed into it. Often, however, the blood obscures everything, and the Surgeon must be guided by feeling the growth Hurry Fenwick employs a specially-constructed expanding speculum, whicn is introduced into the opening and passed down to the growth ; the water is then sucked out of it, and thus, by means of a strong light, the removal ot the growth can be safely carried out. Fergusson's specula, of different sizes, may be used for the same purpose. _ • The o-rowth is removed with Thompson's forceps, but sometimes, if it is sessile and widely-diffused, it may be scraped away with a sharp spoon it the bleeding is severe, it may be arrested by sponge pressure, or by cold or hot water, or the galvano-cautery may be applied to the bleeding surface. Strong chemical styptics should be avoided, as they may cause serious cystitis. The after-treatment is the same as in suprapubic lithotomy. In the female, dilatation of the urethra is so simple a proceeding that it should always be done before any further operation is undertaken. Malignant Tumours.—Sarcoma of the bladder is much less common than either papilloma or carcinoma. Roger Williams found that of 90 cases of tumour of the bladder consecutively treated in four London hospitals only 6 were sarcoma, whilst 59 were carcinoma and 23 papilloma. The growth is composed of round cells, or mixed round and spindle cells, and is papillary on the surface. The distinction between this and a papilloma with a thick base which has been inflamed is not easy to make out, and further investigation is required before a clear separation can be made between these tumours ; more especially as all new growths in the bladder, whether simple or malignant, tend to assume a papillary form. From a study of fifty cases of sarcoma of the bladder, Fen- wick finds that in 20 per cent, the surface of the tumour is villous. Thompson describes tumours which, in his opinion, occupy a place between papilloma and sarcoma, and which he terms " transitional." One tumour removed by him was found to be a chondrifying sarcoma. Carcinoma appears to be the most common form of new growth affecting the bladder primarily, and, in addition, the bladder is often invaded by malignant growths originating in the rectum or uterus. Primary carcinoma of the bladder assumes the squamous-celled form. Scirrhus is said to have been met with, but most probably it commenced in the prostate and not in the bladder Itself. Carcinoma of the bladder often commences on the posterior surface, extending secondarily to the trigone. As a rule the tumour invades the wall of the bladder from the first, and rapidly ulcerates ; in rarer instances the tumour gro^s more superficially, and may slowly form a considerable mass of growth with but little tendency to infiltration in the early stages. The ulcerating surface of the tumour occasionally becomes encrusted with phos- Pig. 902.—Carcinoma of Bladder.