632 DISEASJ^:S OF THE CUMS AND ALVEOLAR PROCESSES, CHAPTER LV. ery DISEASES OF THE JAWS AND THEIR APPENDAGES. DISEASES OP THE GUMS AND ALVEOLAR PROCESSES. Abscess of the Gums, Alveolar Abscess or Gumboil is of V( frequent occurrence, from the irritation of decayed teeth. The common gumboil forms at the edge of the gum and is quite superficial; it is at once relieved by puncturing it with a lancet. A more troublesome form of alveolar abscess is that which develops in connexion with the fang of a tooth, usually carious, but occasionally apparently healthy. The pus forms at the extremity of the fang, the alveolus being absorbed around it, so that a small abscess- cavity is hollowed out deep in the bone. The pus may find its way out alonrr the tooth, pointing at the margin of the gum, but not unfrequently, especially in the molar or bicuspid teeth, it perforates the compact tissue of the jaw-bone and forms an abscess deeply seated below the reflexion of the mucous mem- brane fi-om the gum to the lip or cheek. This is accompanied by considerable swelling of the face and severe pain. The nature of the sweHing is recognized by its being firmly fixed to the jaw. By a free and early incision and e'xtrac- tion of the diseased tooth the pus may be let out into the mouth and immediate relief obtained, but not uncommonly in the lower jaw the abscess opens externally near the angle, and a troublesome sinus may be left which refuses to heal until the affected tooth is removed. In the upper jaw the pus may burst into the antrum or may burrow beneath the palate, forming an abscess in the roof of the mouth which occasionally leads to necrosis of a portion of the bone. To prevent this such abscesses should be opened early and the diseased tooth immediately extracted. Spongy Gums, sometimes accompanied by ulceration, may occur as the result of scurvy, or from the administration of mercury. If the condition be due to scurvy, it is quickly relieved by attention to diet, fresh fruit and vegetables being freely supplied. The mouth may be washed at the same time with an alum gargle. Such cases are not uncommon among the female poor of large cities whose food consists chiefly of bread and tea. In mercurial salivation a strong alum gargle will be found the best remedy. In scrofulous ill-fed children a sijongy condition of the gums with ulceration and. fcetor of the breath is sometimes met with. The ulcers are covered on the surface with a grey slough. The cause of the condition is often obscure. It must be treated by tonics, cod-liver oil and iron, and by chlorate of potash, administered internally to very young children, or used as a gargle when possible. Inflammation of the gums during teething must be relieved by lancing. Simple Hypertrophy of the Gums, in the form of pendulous fringed outgrowths overlapping the teeth, is occasionally met Avith in young children. The cause of the condition is uncertain, but it is remarkable that the children