71 TREATMENT OF FuECAL FISTULA. ^59 S .iderable distance between the external openmg and the aperture m the gut t "hen there are three forms of artificial anus, differing from one another S IccorfLg ^0 the situation of the angle of the gut in relation to the external ^ nnpnino- and to its connexions. , , ^! Then a Fcecal Fistula has formed, the condition of the parts is somewhat i different The aperture in the intestine consists of merely a small perforation I ^ Its, thro4h which a quantity of thin feculent matter exudes, grvmg * 11 to a good deal of irritation of neighbouring structures In some ca es Ihere are several apertures communicating with the gut, and extending through the skin. Fistulous openings of this kind not unfrequently undergo spontaneous cure after a few weeks or months. _ A^HnlP Treatment.—If the aperture be merely a small one, with a narrow fistula leading into the gut, the chief inconvenience suffered by the patient often arises from the irritation of the skin around the opening by the continued moisture of the fseculent matter. In such cases the skin should be protected by nieans of zinc or boric acid ointment or eucalyptus oil and vaseline spread on imt ; and the patient should wear a pad to restrain the discharge. By the pressure of this pad the aperture may sometimes be made to close. In other cases, tiie occasional application of the galvanic cautery or of a red-hot wire will induce contraction of its edges ; and in other instances, again, a plastic operation ot some kind may be required. But I confess I have not usually seen much advantage result from such operations. As the existence of an artificial anus, by interfering with nutrition, commonly gives rise to considerable emacianon, it becomes necessary to support the patient's strength by a sufficient quantity of good and nourishing food ; this is of greater consequence the higher the fistula is, as the interference with the earlier stages of the digestive process, and the loss of nutritive material by the discharge of the chyme, is propor- tionally great. Spontaneous cure will occasionally take place, even though a perfect artificial anus exist. In a case under my care at the Hospital, a whole knuckle of intestine was gangrenous, and sloughed away, leaving an artificial anus, which discharged the greater part of the intestinal contents, but gradually contracted and closed without any local application or treatment beyond attention to cleanliness. If the aperture become a permanent artificial anus, surgical means must be