I04 ANEURISM. able size, gaps are found here and there in ^vbich the middle coat is wantinij the diseased inner coat coming into direct contact with the thickened outer coat. No coagula are found in the dilatation, but a few filamentary shreds of hbrin are occasionally seen attached to the inner wall. Fusiform aneuiisms are most common m the arch of the aorta (Fig. 444), the iliacs, the feraorals and occasionally the axillaries ; in fact, in those vessels in which the yellow elastic tissue of the middle coat is largely developed. They are rare in arteries smaller than the femoral, the basilar artery of the brain, however, being an exception. A fusiform aneurism, especially of the arch of the aorta, may attain a great size, and exercise injurious pressure on con- tiguous parts, producing great distress iiud danger to life. It increases slowly, and may be compatible with life for many years ; but it usually destroys the patient at last, and may occasion death in several ways. Thus, if it be situated in the aorta, death may take place from syncope. This may be caused by the failure of the inelastic aorta to fill the coronary arteries during the diastole of the heart, or from imperfect supply of blood to the brain. Then, again, death may result from pres- sure on important parts, as on the bronchi or the oesophagus. When, however, a tubular aneurism of the arch of the aorta occupies the intrapericardial portion of the vessel, it not uufrequently happens that, owing to the absence of a sheath in this situation, the artery may rupture. In other situations it most commonly remains quiescent, being a source of discomfort, but not of death, until a sacculated aneurism spriugs from its. side, which then becomes the more formidable affection. 2. Sacculated Aneurisiu.^—By a sacculated aneurism is meant a tumour springing from the side of an artery or of a fusiform aneurism, with the interior of which it communicates by a narrow aperture, called the mouth of the sac (Fig. 446). It is generally divided into the True and False varieties. True Sacculated Aneurism.—In this variety the blood is contained within a sac continuous with the coats of the artery and distinct from the surrounding tissues. In all parts of the sac one or more of the coats of the arterial wall are still recognizable. It is only in the earliest stages of the forma- tion of a sacculated aneurism that all the coats of the artery can be traced in the sac wall. Thus, we occasionally find, as Peacock pointed out, small digital pouches springing from the wails of some of the larger arteries, through the whole of which the external, middle, and internal coats can be demonstrated by maceration to exist ; and in those aneurisms which are formed by the dilatation of a comparatively large portion of the arterial wall, the same con- dition may for a time be found, as I have ascertained by careful dissection. As the sac of the aneurism increases in size the thickness of its wall is main- tained, and indeed usually increased, by an overgrowth of the outer coat and Fig. 444.—Large Fusiform Aneurism of Ascend ing Aorta bursting into Pericardium.