77 NMVI IN SPECIAL SITUATIONS. possibly equally destructive. I have heard of sloughing of the eyelid being occasioned by the use of astringent injections ; though, if the nasvus were subcutaneous and constituted a distinct tumour, passing perhaps into the orbit, destruction of the growth by electrolysis is the safest and most efficient mode of treatment. Naevns of the TSose may occur in two situations—at the root, or towards the ala3 and apex. When seated at the root of the nose, upon the bridge, or at the lower part of the forehead, between and perhaps extending above the eyebrows, it is often subcutaneous, and may attain a very considerable size. In cases of this kind, electrolysis or Paquelin's cautery will be found most generally useful. I have also found the quadruple, ligature a ready means of removal. In the case of a little girl about three years of age, I removed a mixed nffivus as large as a walnut, from this situation, by means of the quadruple ligature, with the most satisfactory result, the resulting cicatrix being re- markably small ; and in another little girl, from the bridge of whose nose I removed a nasvus as large as a marble, very little scarring or deformity resulted. When the tip and alee of the nose are affected, the nsevus being cutaneous, we can seldom do much to improve the appearance of the patient. In such cases, I have tried breaking down the ngevus, and the use of the galvanic cautery, without any material benefit ; the destruction of the tissues soon afterwards leading to deformity. When the nsevus is subcutaneous, occupy- ing the tip, ate, and columna nasi, electrolysis or the cautery is the means most likely to be of real service. Naevi of the Cheeks may occur in three distinct forms. 1. There may be a simple cutaneous nasvus, a mere staining of the skin, a " mother's mark." This admits of no satisfactory treatment in most cases ; and the subject of it must submit to exhibit the characteristic discoloration through life. 2. The elevated cutaneous n^vus may be raised above the surface, being of a deep purplish-red or plum colour, and covered with a very thin integu- ment. In this form of the disease, I think that the application of con- centrated nitric acid is the best means of extirpation. By one or two apphcations of the caustic the growth is removed, and a dense white cicatrix, presenting little disfigurement, is left in its place. 3. The ngevus may involve the whole thickness of the cheek, being scarcely, if at all, cutaneous. N^vi of this kind cannot, of course, be extirpated, either by the knife, ligature, or caustics, lest the cheek be perforated, and the most serious disfigurement ensue. In such cases we must endeavour to obliterate the structure of the naevus by electrolysis, or by breaking down the structure of the growth with cataract needles or a fine tenotome. I once cured a large and deeply-seated nffivus of one cheek, by passing a number of fine silk threads across it in different dn-ections, and gradually breaking it down piece bv piece, with a cataract needle ; no disfigurement whatever was left., Naeviof the Lips require different treatment, according as they occupy the margm or have mvolved the whole substance of these parts. When seated at the margin, as projecting and somewhat pendulous growths, they may very readily be removed by a double or quadruple ligature, according to their size ihis was the practice pursued in the case from which the accompanying drawings (l^igs. 432, 433) were taken, where a most excellent result was obtained by the use of the ligature, followed at a later period by injection of perchloride of