959 CANCER OF RECTUM: TREATMENT. means life may be prolonged as well as rendered more endurable. Attempted dilatation by means of bougies, the application of caustics, or crushing the tumour by means of the finger-forceps, as recommended by Amussat, are worse than useless. They cause great pain and irritation, hasten ulceration, and aggravate the disease. Excision of the Tumour. Partial excision of the Rectum or Proctectomy is an operation which has lately been revived with considerable success. Recaraier, Yidal, and others attempted the removal of the tumour when near the anus by ligaturing its base and allowing it to slough away, but excision of a portion of the rectum was first performed, according to Velpeau, by Faget in 1739. He took away an inch and a half of the circumference of the gut and cured his patient. The operation was revived in 1826 by Lisfranc, who operated in nine cases, with five recoveries. The operation, however, fell again into discredit until, in 1854, Chassaignac introduced the ecraseur, and applied it to the removal of rectal growths. Since then Nussbaum, A^olkmann, Czerny, Kraske, and others in aermany, and Holmes, Allingham, Harrison Cripps, Ball and others in this country, have done much to revive the opera- tion. The cases suitable for removal are, according to Cripps, about one in five of those that come under observation. The conditions which are favourable for operation are the following :—The patient must not be too old, and must be in fair health ; the growth must be so situated that the finger can be passed beyond it, and it must be freely movable, not having implicated surrounding parts or glands. The most favourable cases are those limited to one side, especially the posterior. It is an important question how far the dissection can be carried upwards without wounding the peritoneum. Cripps states that in the male the distance from the recto-vesical pouch to the anus is two and a half inches when the bladder is empty, and an additional inch when it is distended. In the female the distance from the recto-uterine pouch to the anus is somewhat greater. The removal of a malignant growth from the rectum is accomplished as follows :—If it be very small, and situated very low down, it may be possible to bring it into view by forcible dilatation of the anus with the two first fingers of each hand. After this the anus will usually be sufficiently relaxed to allow of the affected portion of the gut being seized and drawn out to such an extent as to allow of the free removal of the growth by the ecraseur or scissors. Cases in which this is practicable are, however, very rare. The removal of a portion of the bowel, including the whole circumference, or a considerable part of one side, can be safely performed only when the anus has been enlarged by incision. The operation is thus performed : The rectum having been thoroughly cleansed with an enema immediately before the opera- tion, the patient is placed in the lithotomy position, and a curved sharp-pointed •bistoury, guarded by the left forefinger, is passed in at the anus ; the handle is then raised so that the point is made to pierce the gut and appear superfi- cially close to the tip of the coccyx exactly in the middle line ; the parts between the coccyx and anus are then divided by a single cut. If more room be required during the operation it may be obtained by removing the coccyx. The bleeding must now be arrested, and a stout ligature maybe passed through on either side, by which the wound may be held widely open. An incision is then carried from the margin of the wound on one side in a curved direction round the anus to a corresponding point on the other side. If the anus itself