' OVARIAN TUMOUR: TREATMENT. 1287 2. Scercoraceous accumulation, distended urinary bladder, retained menstrual . fluid, distended gall-bladder. 3. Tumour of liver, spleen, or kidney; •■ of the abdominal glands. 4. Pelvic hematocele, abdominal or pelvic abscess. 5. Normal pregnancy, hydramnios, extra-uterine pregnancy uterine hbro- myoma, uterine fibi-o-cyst, hydro- or pyo-salpynx. 6. Hydro-neph™^^^^ hydatid cysts, pancreatic cysts, parovarian cysts. 7 Simple ascites, ency ted dropsy of peritoneum, tuberculous disease, peritoneal cancer with ascitic fluid. [ The conditions enumerated in the last three of these groups are perhaps the •1 most likely to mislead in forming an opinion. . . i a In all cases of abdominal tumour, the patient should be examined undressed and lyinc^ upon her back with the shoulders somewhat raised and the knees drawn up. After carefully noting the salient points in the history of the case such as the duration and rate of growth of the enlargement, its apparent seat of orio-in, the past and present condition of the meustrual function, &c., tne SurgeSn should proceed to determine the nature of the tumour by the syste- matic employment of the following means :—1. Inspection: Condition of the abdominal wall; amount of distension ; shape and contour of the swelling whether symmetrical or not, prominent anteriorly, or bulging laterally ; extent of downward movement visible on deep inspiration. 2. Percussion : Position and extent of resonance, whether strictly limited or diffused, altered or not by change of position on the part of the patient ; presence and nature of fiuctua- tion,\hether limited (encysted fluid), or general (free fluid). 3. Palpation : Size, outline, and consistence of the tumour; its relative mobility ; solid or with fluid contents ; presence of nodular outgrowths. 4. Auscultation: Presence of the fcetal heart in case of suspected pregnancy ; uterine souffle. 5. By Vaginal or Redal examination combined with abdominal palpation it may be determined whether the tumour have a pelvic connexion or not ; and if so, whether it be uterine, tubal, or ovarian. Tapping or aspiration of a fluctuant abdominal tumour of doubtful origin is occasionally resorted to with a view to ascertain its nature by examination of the fluid withdrawn ; and of late years an exploratory incision has been recommended in obscure cases as a more definite means of clearing up the diagnosis. This last procedure, although comparatively safe if performed with all due precautions, should by no means be rashly undertaken ; but if practised, the operator must be prepared at once to proceed to the removal of the tumour, should such a step be found advisable. Treatment of Ovarian Tumour.—1. Bij Medical Means. These cannot possibly exercise any curative influence, or in any way retard the progress of the disease. The utmost that can be done by medical treatment in advanced ovarian disease is to attend to the general health, by relieving constipation and promoting free action of the kidneys pending the removal of the tumour. 2. Tapping in ovarian dropsy was formerly recommended as a palliative mode of treatment; but experience has showu that after withdrawal of the fluid from a true ovarian cyst, re-accumulation invariably takes place, necessitating more and more frequent repetition of the tapping, if the treat- ment be persisted in, until the patient finally dies exhausted. The operation, therefore, not only holds out no prospect of cure ; but as a matter of fact, its adoption is usually the precursor of a more rapidly fatal termination to the case than would otherwise occur. For, in addition to the more immediate