635 PARTIAL EXCISION OF UPPER JAW. W" •e should depart from that principle, which is found necessary m operations . S pS for the removal of malignant growths, of being gnided in th extent of the removal by the anatomical boundaries of the part affected, and not bv the apparent extent of diseased structure. 2 Partial Excision of the Sxiperior Maxilla.-Although I do not consider the scooping away of the tnmour from the antrum to be a proper ' ■ Fig. 093. - Saw witli Movable Back, for Operations on the Jaws. procedure, I would not advocate the removal of more of the bones of tlie face than is absolutely necessary for the complete extirpation of the disease, more especially when that is not malignant. The disease may be limited either to the upper or to the lower part of the superior maxilla. In these cases, the practice of Fergusson has led to great advances in our method of removing such disease with the least possible disfigurement and the least loss of bone. With regard to the external incisions in these cases, Fergusson showed that they often need to be but very limited ; all that is neces- sary being a cut from the angle of the mouth upwards and outwards through the cheek, or, in other cases, a slit through the upper lip in the mesial line, the knife being carried alono- the side of the columna into the nostril. By these simple incisions, Fergusson has shown that sufficient relaxation of parts can be obtained for the excision of the greater part of the superior maxillary bone. In some cases, the malar bone and floor of the orbit will be found to be sound. When this happens, they should both be left ; and with this view, after the cheek has been incised as just described, a deep horizontal groove should be made with a narrow straight-backed saw below the orbit, directly across from the nasal process of the maxillary to the edge of the malar bone. The forceps should now be applied so as to cut downwards and outwards from the end of this incision, and thus to sever the connexion between the superior maxilla and the malar bone. They are next to out along the groove that has been traced horizontally with the saw, one blade cutting from the nares along this ; and lastly, the alveolus and hard palate have to be divided. This is best done after the extraction of one of the central incisors, by passing a narrow- bladed saw into the anterior nares and cutting down through the alveolus ; Fig. G94. -Lines of Incision in Listen's Ope- ration lor Excision of Upper Jaw.