CAUSES OF CALCULUS. 1035 and we may look upon the formation of a calculus as an indication ot the existence, in a greater degree of intensity than usual, of the causes which ordinarily give \-ise to sediments or gravel; but why, in particular cases, aggregation into a calculous mass takes place it is impossible to say. Age exercises considerable influence upon the production of calculi. Stone may occur in the bladder at all periods of life, and may even, according to Stahl, be congenital. The greatest number of cases apparently occur during the first two decennial periods : thus, the statistics collected by Thompson from the chief hospitals of this country show that one-third of the entire number of cases occurred before seven years of age, and one-half before the thirteenth year is completed. Coulson collected 2,972 recorded cases of hthotomy from various sources : of these, 1,4G6 occurred under the age of ten, 731 from eleven to twenty, 205 from twenty-one to thirty, 264 from thn-ty- one to fifty, and 306 from fifty-one upwards. These statistics refer entirely to hospital practice. The later statistics published by Thompson, derived from his own practice, public and private, show somewhat different results. Thus of 949 male cases 16 were under sixteen years of age, 13 occurred between sixteen and twenty-four. 111 between twenty-five and fifty, 621 between fifty and seventy, and 188 above seventy. This apparent discrepancy arises from two causes. First, the more extensive statistics are derived from cases operated on chiefly before the days of antesthetics, when numerous adults died unrelieved rather than face the horrors of lithotomy ; whereas children had little choice in the matter. Diagnosis also was not so perfect at that time, and many small stones in old people escaped detection. Secondly, Thompson's own statistics are chiefly derived from private practice, and it is well known that the children of the rich very rarely suflPer from stone. Thus of 100 hospital cases in Thompson's list, 13 were below sixteen, whilst of 849 private cases only three were below that age. The cause of this is not very certain, but some attribute it to insufficiency of milk in the diet. Sex influences materially the occurrence of stone, which is far more frequent in the male than in the female, in the proportion of about twenty to one of cases requiring operation. This, however, does not represent the exact ratio ; as, owing to the shortness and large size of the urethra in females, many small calculi are voided by them that would be retained in the male. In Tliompson's series of 964 cases only 15 were females. Locality.—It would appear that in some parts of the luorld calculus is a far more common disease than in others. It is generally more frequently met with in cold than in warm climates. The negro race is remarkably exempt from this affection. It is a singular fact that in some parts of the same country calculous disorders are of far more frequent occurrence than in others. Thus it is well known that the inhabitants of the east coast of Enyland and Scotland are peculiarly liable to these disorders ; and that in Norfolk stone occurs with especial frequency, the mortality from calculus being much higher there in proportion to the population than in any other county of England (Cadge). In America, also, it would appear that the inhabitants of certain States are peculiarly liable to this affection ; and I understand that in some districts of Germany the disease may be said to be almost unknown, whilst in others it is of common occurrence. The relative frequency of the kinds of calculus also varies in different countries. H. V. Carter, who analysed and described upwards of a hundred specimens contained in the museum of