EFFECTS OF ARTERIAL DISEASE. 97 the muscular cells arc so scanty and so far concealed by the elastic tissue that if this change does occur in them it is difficult to recognize. The inner coat in the larger vessels usually shows the ordinary signs of chronic endarteritis. In the smaller it may at first be healthy, but later on calcareous plates may form in it. It has been pointed out by Bizot that the symmetry of the arrangement of these morbid appearances in the corresponding vessels on opposite sides of the body is remarkable, the arteries of one limb often being the exact counterpart in this respect of those of the other. The causes of calcification of the muscular fibre cells of the middle coat are unknown beyond that it is always a senile change. The efiects of annular calcification are to render the vessel a rigid tube no longer capable of regulating the flow of blood to the parts it supplies. At the same time its calibre is always diminished, and the nutrition of the partn bej'ond is seriously impaired. Thus in the limbs we have all the signs of defective circulation, coldness of the feet, cramps and spasms of the muscles ; whilst, in organs, softening of tissue, fatty degeneration, and other evidences of want of a proper supply of blood are observed. Spontaneous aneurisms rarely result fi om this change, the coats of the arteries being more resisting than natural ; moreover, primary calcification is met with in the vessels below the axilla and knee, and spontaneous aneurisms beyond those points are amongst the curiosities of surgery. Thrombosis is occasionally met with, but is not common, as the endotheh'al lining is affected only in extreme cases and late in the disease. The lodgment of a small fibrinous embolus carried from athero- matous arteries above is an occasional occurrence, and is very likely to cause gangrene even when only one vessel is blocked, as the collateral arteries are no longer capable of enlarging to carry on circulation. Occlusion of the calcified arteries by thrombosis or embolism is the common cause of the dry form of senile gangrene. The moist form arises from inflammation taking place in tissues the vitahty of which has been greatly lowered in consequence of the diminished supply of blood through the narrowed vessels. Ossification of Arteries.—The formation of true bone in the coats of an artery is an extremely rare occurrence. A specimen of this kind was ex- hibited at the Pathological Society of London, by H. Gr. Howse, in 1877. The patient was a man aged 3G, who was run over by a cart, the wheel passing over his shoulder. The axillary artery was ruptured, and death occurred as a result of the accident about a month afterwards. A small plate of cancellous bone was found in the injured vessel, apparently developed in the middle and outer coats. Its greatest thickness was about a quarter of an inch. Effects OF Diseases of the Arteries.—The various effects of diseases of the arteries have already been mentioned with the affections to which they are due, but ic may lead to a clearer comprehension of the subject if they are again referred to, as the same effect may result fi-om more than one cause. The most important effects of arterial disease are Ulceration of the Coats of the Artery ; Spontaneous Rupture ; Contraction or Occlusion of the Vessel; and, lastly. Dilatation into some of the various forms of Aneurism. Ulceration of Arteries.—Loss of substance in the inner coat results from superficial fatty degeneration (p. <Jo), and from softening of an atheromatous patch (p. 89). Neither of these processes is a true ulceration. Genuine ulceration of the inner coat is in reality scarcely ever met with. When true