LUPUS. 3 for it acts as a foreign body, and prevents the healing of the surface from which it springs; the ulcer may then be treated with iodoform or well rubbed with the nitrate of silver, and dressed with black wash. Colles recommends fumigating it with a mercurial candle, made by melting a drachm of cinnabar and two ounces of white wax together. The constitutional treatme^it is that of syphilis. Ingrowing of the Nail is an extremely painful and troublesome aifection, principally occurring in the great toe, and brought about by wearing pointed shoes, by which the sides of the soft part of the toe are pressed upon, and made to overlap the edge of the nail. An ulcer here forms, the liability to which is greatly increased by the nail being cut square, so that the flesh presses aguinst a sharp and projecting corner of it ; this ulcer discharges a foetid sanious pus, and large granulations are thrown up by it. The conse- sequence is inability to walk or even stand with comfort. Treatme7it—ln the very early stages before ulceration has taken place, further trouble may often be prevented by scraping the nail along its middle with a piece of broken glass or a knife, or filing it down till it is about as thin as a sheet of note-paper. At the same time, its free end should be cut short in the middle, and its corners allowed to grow well beyond the matrix, so that the natural edge of the nail and not a sharp angle shall be in contact with the soft parts. Wlien the soft parts begin to overlap the nail various plans have been devised with a view of raising the edge of the nail, and pressing aside the soft structures. I have never, however, seen much permanent benefit result from any of these means ; and the only method that is, I think, really serviceable to the patient, is the removal of the whole nail. As this operation IS an excessively painful one, the patient should be angesthetized with nitrous oxide, or the matrix may be rendered insensitive by the ether spray. The Surgeon holds the diseased toe in his left hand, and then running one blade of a strong sharp-pointed pair of scissors under the nail up to its very root, he cuts through Its whole length, and, removing the scissors, seizes first one half and then the other with avulsion forceps or strong dissecting forceps, and twists them away from their attachments. The surface left is still covered by the deeper layer of the epithelium, which becomes dry and hard in a few days. Ihe back of the scissors usually wounds the matrix in the middle line, and here granulations may form. The new nail usually grows straight and healthy. In some rare cases, however, I have seen a faulty direction assumed by it. If this should happen the nail must again be removed, and the matrix dissected away. Avulsion of the toe-nail is usually unattended with danger. I was, how- ever, once called upon to amputate a foot for gangrene, which had followed the operation performed on an elderly person. DISEASES OF THE SKIN. ; ^' Z^^'";; ? f ) '"J'"* affectioDs of the skin were formerlv moluded, wh.oh had but little in eommon with eaeh other beyond runm^t a chron.c course and leading to destrnction of the cntaneons tissues ^ h or dude^d n"nrTe- " """^"^ '° '"^ "'^'^^ ^l*™"^ - cmaed nndei the common name, are in reality quite distinct These affections are distinguished as Lupus Erythematosus and Lup° s Tnl^aS When the term lupus is nsed alone it is applied only to the latter fese." B 2