498 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. In oonsiderinp: the indications for the operation of laminectomy it may ho ''^ laid down as a general rule that it can rarely be justifiable until a fair trial Im^ been given to the methods of treatment above described. If, however, in spiic of thorough rest and the employment of extension in the early stages tin- symptoms arc obviously increasing, or if in long-standing cases the treai- ment is not followed by improvement, the results hitherto obtained by o])era- t tion certainly justify the Surgeon in having recourse to it. In a successful case of Thorburn's the operation was undertaken on account of the presence of secondary chest complications ; in another, which ended fatally, for the relief of severe girdle pain which resisted all other treatment. Chipault insists up(jii the advantages of laminectomy in those rare instances in which the pressure is due to disease of the posterior arches of the vertebra?, for then the disease c;iii be thoroughly removed and the pressure relieved by the one procedure. TL- operation is not justifiable if there are any signs of general tuberculosis oi' of active tuberculous disease in other parts of the body. The operation must be conducted on the same lines as when performed for injury to the spine (Yol. I. p. 815). The incision should be so placed that its centre lies over the most prominent spinous process, and this, together with the spines and lamiute of the vertebra above and below, should be removed. The condition of the tissues around the dura mater must now be carefully inves- tigated. In some cases the pressure is due to dense inflammatory tissue Avhich must be cautiously divided in the middle line and dissected from the theca. The latter should not be opened, and damage to the nerves must be carefully avoided. In many cases, however, the pressure is due to a small abscess projecting into the front of the canal (p. 485). This will appear as a small reddish or yellowish swelling, and should be opened from one side of the cord and scraped out with a sharp spoon. A drainage-tube is then inserted into the abscess cavity and the wound sutured and dressed antiseptically. The operation can be of little service in those rare cases in which the compression is caused by bony displacement, or is due to extension of the tuberculous disease to the membranes or even to the cord itself. DISEASE OF THE CEBVICAL SPINE. Caries of the cervical spine presents several points requiring special consideration. It is much less frequent than in the dorsal and lumbar regions. The most marked symptoms are pain and rigidity. The pain is mcreased by the shghtest movement so that the child may instinctively endeavour to prevent this by steadying the head with the two hands. In attempting to look round the eyes only are moved or the whole body is rotated. The position of the head varies in different cases : thus it may be held stiffly erect or more often it is inclined laterally ; less frequently there is marked flexion or even over-extension. Pressure on the vertex often causes great pain. Owmg to the direction of the natural curve in this region and the shallowness ot the bodies of the cervical vertebrse extensive disease may occur without any angular excurvation, the first effect of destruction of the bodies being to obliterate the normal curve. ^ , • „a Disease of the Articulations between the Atlas and Axis, antt between the Atlas and Occipital Bone constitutes one of the most serious