DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. ii8o necessarily become more marked, mitil they may terminate in complete reten tion ; they often come on in a very insidious manner, however, and when the patient seeks advice he is found to be already the subject of a very titdit and intractable stricture ; indeed, in some cases, the first circumstance that directe the attention of the patient to his complaint is the sudden occurrence of reten. tion or urme. Examination of the Patient for Stricture.—In all cases of suspected stricture, the Surgeon should, if possible, see the patient pass water before using an mstrument. He will thus be able to judge of the actual amount of obstruction. It sometimes happens that the canal, though not greatly narrowed, is tortuous and indurated, so that an instrument enters with great difficulty, although the patient passes a fair stream of urine. Such a case might readily be mistaken for a very tight stricture if the examination were commenced by attempting to pass an instrument. The existence of a stricture can however be determined with certainty only by the introduction of an instrument. In exploring the canal in a suspected case, two points have to be ascertained—the existence of a stricture, and its degree of tightness. The Existence of a Stricture is best determined by passing a soft conical French bougie about No. 8 (English scale). It must be slightly warmed and well oiled. This wall pass readily, unless the canal be distinctly constricted, when it will be arrested at the narrow point. In this exploration, too small an instrument must not be used, lest it hitch in the fossae of the urethra or against the verumontanum, and this accidental arrest be mistaken for the obstruction produced by a stricture ; or it may pass through the stricture, and thus mislead the Surgeon. The existence of a stricture having been ascertained, the next point is to determine its degree of tightness. This is best done by withdrawing the instru- ment previously used, and then introducing a smaller one about the size of the stream of urine that the patient passes. If this fail to enter the stricture, a still smaller one must be used, until that size is reached which can be introduced with but a moderate degree of force. In this way the existence, the seat, and degree of tightness of the stricture, are ascertained. A soft instrument should always be used by preference for this ijreliminary examination, as it causes less pain, and with the most ordinary skill and care it is impossible to do the patient any injury with it. There is no doubt that information as to the length, degree of induration, and form of the narrowing, may be gained by the experienced Surgeon by means of a metal bougie ; but the knowledge thus gained is not sufficient to counterbalance the greater ease and safety of a soft instrument. The slighter narrowings of the urethra are not easily recognized by the means just described. For this purpose the conical or olive-headed bougie (Figs. 913 and 914) will be found most useful. The conical shape of this instru- ment enables it to pass readily towards the bladder, but on withdrawing it the Fig. 913.— Conical-headed Sound. Pig. 914.— Olive-headed Sound.