488 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. of the spine, but it is occasionally mot with in those cases in which tin destruction of the bodies of the vertebrae has exposed the dura mater so tli;ii it conies to form part of the wall of a chronic abscess. Even then it rarely if ever occurs, except as the result of decomposition of the discharges after the abscess has been opened, as a consequence of which the membrane may slough. Diagnosis,—The diagnosis of caries of the spine is made at the first sight of a patient alfected by the disease, when once the angular deformity has taken place. It is, however, difficult before excurvation occurs, being indicated at this period only by the existence of pain in the back, and by sonn symptoms of spinal irritation. At this stage it may be mistaken fbr spinal or intercostal neuralgia, for rlimmatism, or for sione in the kidmy. The per- sistence, however, of a continuous fixed pain in the back should always lead to a suspicion as to the true nature of the disease, lest the grievous error be committed of treating as mere neuralgia or rheumatism what may turn out to be disease of the spine itself. Here the tenderness on pressure, the increased sensibility to the application of heat will determine the seat of the affection. The pain elicited by rotation or by antero-posterior movement is a very valuable symptom. In some cases pain on bending backwards is most com- plained of. The patient can stoop forwards, but if bent backwards suffers much. So also pressure on the head or shoulders greatly increases the pain of the part affected. The shape of the back, with loss of the natural curves of the spine with a tendency, though it be very slight, to projection of some of the spinous processes, the feeling of weakness in the back, the difficulty in rising from a sitting or horizontal position, in turning, or in standing on one leg unaided, the loss of the natural flexibility of the spine, and especially the occurrence of these symptoms in early childhood or youth, at a period when the other diseases with which it may be confounded rarely occur, and are still more rarely persistent, should lead one to suspect the existence of caries of the spine. The diagnosis between alscesses locahzed in the situations mentioned, and those arising from diseased spine, is not always easy ; as purulent collections of various kinds may form in the areolar tissue in the neighbourhood of the vertebral column, without any disease existing in it. Thus, a large psoas abscess descending in the sheath of the muscle and presenting under Poupart s lio-ament, may occur without any disease of the vertebrae. In these cases of simple abscess, the diagnosis from the psoas abscess dependent upon vertebral disease may be practically impossible, for in some cases the presence of the abscess may be the only symptom of spinal disease. As psoas abscess dependent upon vertebral caries almost invariably presents in the groin, and a large abscess in the groin may arise from various other conditions, independently of sucli vertebral disease, the Surgeon must attend carefully to the diagnosis of these various conditions. Abscess and fluduaiing stvellings in the grom may arise from the following causes from large chronic collections of pus in he subcutaneous or intermuscular planes of areolar tissue ; 2, from disease of the kidney with suppuration in the areolar tissue around it-perinephritic absce.8; peric Jal abscess (on the right side only) ; 4, from ihac abscess whe forming merely under the iliac fascia, or dependent on disease of the pelvic bon™ 5 from hip-ioint disease, the abscess being pelvic ; 6, from large buboes ""^^.^lil^lJJ.^ ; 7, from an empyema perforating the pleura and finding its way down behind the diaphragm ; 8, from serous or hydatid cysts ; and 9,