DISEASEH OF THE TONGUE. 694 If only half the ton<^-iie is airected. it may be removed with Bcissors in the same way. The first step in the operation then consists in passing a ligature through each side and splitting it in the middle line. In excising the tongue with scissors Christopher Heath us(^8 a large pair of angular forciprcssnre forceps, with which he seizes the lingual arteries and the surrounding tissue before dividing them. A strong ligature is then passed over the forceps and the included tissue tied enmasse. This modification may be useful, as Heath suggests, when the Surgeon has not the help of an experi- enced assistant. Treves especially advocates the ligature of the lingual arteries in the neck as a preliminary step in the operation of excision of the tongue with scissors, and records 34 cases with only 3 deaths, one of which occurred suddenly from heart disease. The very little trouble which is usually occasioned by the haemorrhage when Whitehead's method is adopted, scarcely seems to necessitate this considerable addition to the magnitude of the operation. When the floor of the_mouth is implicated, no operation through the mouth should be attempted ; as it is impossible by this means to extirpate the whole of the disease, and partial removal of it will be followed only by rapid recur- rence and increased activity of development. Slight enlargement of the glands under the jaw should not be any bar to the operation, provided the disease be limited, and the constitution good. As a general rule it will be wise to defer the removal of the glands to a subsequent operation. This is especially advisable when the glandular affection is very slight, as the en- largement may possibly be dependent upon simple irritation, and will then siibside after the removal of the tongue. 2. Submental Operations for Excision of Tongue.—Regnoli of Pisa published, in 1838, a description of the following method by which the whole tongue can be removed. An incision of a semilunar shape is made along the hne of the lower jaw, beginning near one angle and terminating close to the other. A perpen- dicular incision is carried from the centre of this line immediately under the chin to the hyoid bone (Fig. 74:9). In making this semilunar incision, care must be taken not to wound the facial artery on either side. The trunk of the vessel should be protected by the finger of an assistant as it curves round the lower jaw, and the incision should be confined within the space between the two facials. The triangular flaps of skin formed in the manner indicated are dissected back, and the muscles and mylo- hyoid space are now exposed. These must be successively divided : the anterior bellies of the digastrics are cut across, the mylo-hyoid muscle divided transversely at its anterior part ; and the attachments of the genio- hyoidei and genio-hyo-glossi are then to be detached from the lower jaw by a few touches of the scalpel, and by separating with the fingers the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. An aperture is then made into this by pushing the scalpel through it, and its reflexion from the inside of the lower Fig. 749.—Lines of Incision in Regno! i's Operation.