DIFFICULTIES DURING LATERAL LITHOTOMY. .063 of senile osteomalacia. This is recognized by the approximation of the ischial 't^y depending upon the Shape and Size of the Stone -1^^^^ stone be very round, it is usually more difficult to seize than when flat or on'ated Flat, disc-shaped--caMi, however, occasionally all mto the S of the bladder behind the prostate, and thea cannot -dily ^e reached w the forceps, which passes over them. In these circumstances they aie hL extracted by the curved scoop. Yery flat, broad calcuh, and those that round e 'g-sLped, or branched, are the most difficult to remove, even t ouorth i^size be not very great. As a genera rule however, it may be tated that, the larger the calculus, the more difficult is its extraction. Theie tl alwayV^^ considerable difficulty in extracting calcuh weighmg six or eight ieV and upwards ; though cases are recorded by Cheselden Klein and others in which calcuh from twelve to fifteen ounces in weight have been exS^^^ the lateral operation. Any calculus above one inch and a half m tsToSer dkmeter will be hard to extract through an incision of the ordinary n'th in the prostate, even though this be considerably dilated by the pressure of the fingers : and I think it may safely be said, that a calculus two inches and upwards in diameter can hardly be removed by the ordinary lateral operation with any degree of force which it is safe to employ. The practice aCted m such a case, more than a century ago, by Gooch, of Norwich, is probably the best that can be pursued. It consists in drawing he stone well down with the forceps, and then letting an assistant carefully divide the tissues that resist. In this way, by a process of traction, twistmg, and division, the stone may be brought out with safety. In the facihty with which the calculus is extracted, however, much will depend upon the make o the forceps. As Listen most truly observes, "There can be no more fat^^ error than to attempt the extraction of a large stone with .short and shabby forceps " In these cases the open-bladed forceps (Fig. 855) will be found useful, the absence of metal in the most convex part of the blade lessening materially the bulk of the instrument when grasping a stone. In the event of the calculus being too large for extraction through the ordi- nary lateral incision, the Surgeon should at once perform the suprapubic operation The presence of the perinsBal wound increases the difficulty of the operation, as the bladder cannot be injected ; but nevertheless this treatment is certainly to be preferred to either of the other two alternatives which are open to the Surgeon, viz., incision of the right side of the prostate and crushing the stone in the bladder. Should the unusually large size of the stone have been detected before the operation, lateral lithotomy should not be attempted. Difficulty from Fracture of the Calculus.—The difficulty of extraction is greatly increased if the stone be broken. Fracture of a calculus is of two kinds. In the one case the stone is simply broken into several fragments, or splinters, so to speak, are detached from it. This accident may happen with hard as well as with soft calcuh, and is generally owing to the Sm-geon employing i