478 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. are completely absorbed. The unabsorbed bone then perishes, forming a sequestrum. This necrotic caries is very oommou in the spine. 4. The granulation tissue not uncommonly undergoes calcification. This is said to be one mode of cure, especially when the area alfected by the tuberculon - disease is very limited, the small calcified nodule lying harmlessly embedded iu^ the surrounding bone. Small necrosed fragments of cancellous boii'- with its spaces filled with calcified inflammatory products, are sometime ^ met with in the discharge from abscesses connected with angular curvature of the spine. 5. Lastly, if all sources of irritation are removed, the rarefying osteitis may cease to extend, and the granulation tissue become developed into bone, thug elfecting a cure of the disease. The destructive process extends not only into the bone, but also, usually at an early period, into the intervertebral fibro-cartilages. As the disease com- mences most commonly between the epiphysial cartilage and the bone, the tliin layer of cartilage is soon destroyed by the same processes as are observed in the destruction of articular cartilage in chronic inflammations of joints (p. 334). The granulation tissue then penetrates into the intervertebral disc, which is destroyed, after which the morbid process extends into the body of the next vertebra. In whatever way the disease commences the most common cause of its persistence is the mechanical irritation of the diseased surfaces by the friction of movement, aggravated by the weight of the parts of the body above the affected vertebras. In other cases the presence of sequestra, which cannot find a way out, may keep up the disease indefinitely. It seems probable that caries originally tuberculous may become simple in character as the disease pro- gresses. The original tuberculous centre may completely caseate and soften, exciting inflammation in tlie tissue around it, and. be thus eliminated, the subsequent progress of the disease being due to the mechanical causes above mentioned. In other cases the tuberculous process may infect the surrounding parts and maintain its characteristics to the end. I know of no exact description of mj primar// pathological changes tahing place in the intervertebral discs. As before stated, we are not in a position to deny that disease may originate in these structures, for by the time the case comes to be examined after death the fibro-cartilage has often disappeared, and we find only the signs of rarefying osteitis in the vertebras on each side. Luschka states that there is a synovial cavity in each disc, and that the lobes of the pulp correspond to the villi of a synovial membrane. If this be true it would be in this structure that any primary inflammation or deposit of tubercle would take place, and not in the dense fibrous and fibro-cartilaginous layers forming the outer zones of the disc. The nature of the pathological changes being borne in mind, the coarser morbid appearances are easily understood. Dry caries, or caries without suppuration, forms the simplest variety of the disease. It affects usually a limited portion of the spine, often^ only two vertebras with the intervening intervertebral disc. The destruction of the bodies of the vertebrse in these cases often takes place somewhat rapidly, and at the same time the osseous tissue is softened by extension of the rarefying osteitis for some distance from the centre of the disease. In consequence of this the weight of the body above the diseased vertebras causes a bendmg