RHINOPLASTY. 659 Fig. 707. Depressed Nose Fig. 70S.—New Nose, day after Operation. offensive by the discharges ; its withdrawal and the substitution of another must be done with the greatest gentleness, lest the adhesion of the flap be broken down. If the sutures cause no irritation, they may be lett m tiu the fifth or sixth day, by which time adhesion will be tolerably perfect. As adhesion strengthens and the vitality of the flap improves, it must be elevated by putting underneath it a larger plug of lint ; for which, after a time, may be substituted a small gutta-percha tube moulded to the figure of the mside of the nose. CEdema of a somewhat solid character is apt to come on in the flap, giving it a white appear- ance ; but this is of Httle moment, and will gradually subside as the circulation through it becomes more actively established. The flap gradually becomes thicker and firmer, throwing out granulations from its under surface, which even- tually becomes covered byepithehum. The wound on the forehead must be dressed like an ordinary ulcer. It usually cicatrizes withgreat readiness, and leaves a remarkably small scar. 2 Separation of the Root of the Flap.—This may be done about a month after the flap has been fashioned, when its vascularity, through its lateral adhesions, will be perfected. The division of the root is best done by passing a narrow-bladed bistoury under the twist, and cutting upwards towards the eyebrows, removing a wedge-shaped portion of the soft parts, bo as to make a suaooth and proper bridge. 3. Formation of the Columna Nasi.—The addition of the columna is now all that is wanted to make the nose complete. This must be made from the upper lip, perhaps at the same time that the bridge is fashioned ; and it may be cut and fixed in the way that has already been described at p. 656, the interior of the apex of the new nose having been well pared to receive it. The columna must be well supported by means of a narrow strip of plaster passing from one cheek to the other, and usually requires a good deal of fashioning before it is perfect; indeed, this is the part of the operation that I have always found most troublesome. The new nose must continue to be supported from beneath, for some mouths after its formation, by plugs of lint or small gutta-percha tubes, as it will ■evince a great tendency to contract, becoming either depressed or dumpy. "The sensibility of the new nose is entirely destroyed for a time after the ■division of the bridge ; but this slowly returns, appearing first in the neigh- bourhood of the adhesions between it and the cheeks, and gradually—in ■several months—in its central portion. The annexed cuts (Figs. 709, 710) give a faithful representation of a patient ■on whom I operated, before and after the operation. The success of the case will depend very greatly upon the minute attention which the Surgeon bestows on the details of the operation, and on the care which he takes in the after-treatment. During the operation, the chief points to be attended to are, that the flap be madd of sufficient size, that all oozing u TI 2