79° weight SIMPLE TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. They have been met with of six, eight, or even twelve pounds' weight ; but by far the largest is one described by Velpeau, which weighed- forty pounds. In the case from which the drawings (Figs. 783, 784) were taken, the tumour had existed for more than twenty years before removal, having commenced at the age of twenty-eight ; and after extirpation soft fungating growths were found at the bottom of some of the cysts. The constitution was uncontarainated throughout. Diagnosis.—A small hard fibro-adenoma may be mistaken for a cyst, chronic lobular mastitis, or early scirrhus. From all these conditions the fibro-adenoma is distinguished by its perfect circumscription and free mobility, and in not being, as are these other conditions, an intimate part of the breast tissue. A cyst further differs in the absence of lobulation, and in the greater softness of its central part as compared with the periphery ; lobular mastitis Pig. 7S3.—Ulcerated Cysto-Adenoma of Breast, of 20 years' duration. Fig. 784.—The same Tumour, six months later with fungating sarcomatous gi'owth. in the ill-defined outline of the induration and its flattened irregular shape ; and early scirrhus in the more stony hardness and the dimpling of the skin over it. The patient's age and the duration of the disease may also be of help in deciding between fibro-adenoma and an early stage of scirrhus, but in a case of great doubt no time should be lost in making an exploratory incision. A soft and rapidly growing fibro-adenoma may resemble somewhat closely a sarcoma or a soft carcinoma. The distinction will turn chiefly on the relation of the tumour to the breast—the soft adenoma being quite independently movable, the carcinoma being intimately connected with the breast, and the sarcoma being in this respect intermediate between the other two. The history may be helpful, for the soft fibro-adenoma often develops from a small hard tumour of long duration. The chief importance of the accurate diagnosis is as a guide in deciding between removal of the tumour only and excision of the whole breast. An exploratory incision is often the only means of removing the doubt. . A cysto-adenoma may be distinguished from cystic degeneration of the mamma