RICKETS: TREATMENT. ; are but scantily deposited ; the resulting structure is therefore softer than natural. Treatment.—In the treatment of rickets our first endeavour must be to remove those conditions which are known to cause the disease. The child must ; be as much as possible in the open air and should, if possible, be sent into the country. It must be put to sleep in a bed by itself to ensure fresh air during the night. If it kicks its clothes oif it must be made to sleep in loose flannel drawers and a jacket, to avoid the risk of catching cold. A bath should be given, of tepid salt water in winter and cold in summer, every morning and evening, or at least once daily. The diet should be carefully regulated. Before seven months it should consist of nothing but milk ; the mother's milk is the best if she be in a state of health to suckle her child ; if not, the best cow's milk must be given, diluted at first with twice its bulk of water or barley-water and sweetened with a little sugar. Lime-water may be added if the child vomits or passes undigested milk with its stools. After the child has passed the seventh month a small quantity of properly prepared starch food may be added to the diet, but the supply of milk must not be diminished ; at least two pints should be given daily. Underdone meat pounded into a pulp in a mortar, or the juice of raw meat may also be given. 525.—Femur from a case of scurw-riekets. m. Muscle infiltrated with blood, '-pp'. Peri- osteum raised from the bone by clots of blood. p'. Clots of blood on bone. c. Lower epiphysis seiiarated from shaft. The remedies that are of the greatest service in rickets are iron and cod-liver oil, the former being the more import- ant. They may be given- together— one drachm of steel wine and the same quantity of the oil being taken three rimes a day immediately after food. This treatment must be continued for many months, '^n occasional dose of rhubarb and soda, or compound liquorice powder, may be necessary, and if the tongue be very furred a small quantity of grey powder may sometimes be added. Kassowitz recommends the administra- tion of ^ of a grain of phosphorus daily either in cod-liver oil or oil of almonds. He states that under its influence all the symptoms undergo rapid amehoration. It is of much importance in preventing deformity in these cases not to allow the child to walk or stand much, but to let it take exercise in cionkey-panmers or hand-chairs, and to support those limbs that have a special endency to bend, with properly constructed steel supports, which wiU be ound of much use, provided they are not too heavy, and do not interfere with Che action of the muscles. Methodical friction should also be emploved to stimulate the muscles. V^^^^^'^fu''^''^ ^""^ Scurvy.-Attention has been drawn by i. bmith. Gheadle, and T. Barlow, in this country, and Moller and others VOL. IT.