i2i8 DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. to the groove representing the urethra, and f.alfan inch from its right margin • a transverse mcs.on from each end of this is made up to the edofof^ 1 ' i uretluj.1 groove. The flap thus marked, which we will cLl the righf flap > then dissected up, leaving ,fc attached along the margin of the uretln-al grrfo'v • A snmlar flap ,s then raised on the left side, but on this side the incision \. earned along t e left margin of the urethral groove, and the flap turn" ouU ^ wa ds, Its attached edge being in the position corresponding to the free ed-. ^ forms' nf r "'^"'^ T ^"'"^^ ''''' ^ ^^^^ form the limng of the new nrethra. A numl,er of fine stitches are thn, inserted in the following way : The needle is first passed through the base of the left flap from the skin surface, next through the free edge^f the right flap from the raw surface towards the skin ; then it is made to catch the loft edge of the urethral groove, and finally it is passed again through the base of tlu- lef flap. In this way the edge of the right flap is held in position, and th. stitches can be removed from the surface. When these have ah been passed they may be tightened. A similar number of stitches are then passed throu-Wi the free edge of the left flap, by which it is attached to the skin of the pe^is at the outer edge of the raw surface from which the right flap was raised The raw surfaces of the two flaps are thus brought closely into contact, and an epithelial lining formed for the new urethra. During the healing, a catheter must be tied in, and the bladder drained. A small fistulous opening will usually be left at the lower end, which must be closed by a subsequent plastic operation. Several successful cases of this operation have been recorded, and It seems to be by far the most efficient of the many methods. The third degree of hypospadias admits of no treatment. The operation should not be performed on young children, as the parts are too small. Epispadias.—The upper surface of the penis is less frequently fissured. The malformation commonly occurs in conjunction with extroversion of the bladder, but a few cases are recorded in which the penis only was cleft. This condition may be remedied by Thiersch's operation above described. ^ Phimosis.—The prepuce is not unfrequently the seat of malformation or disease. The condition of it in which it is so much elongated that it extends beyond the glans, while at the same time it is so much contracted that it prevents the proper exposure of this portion of the organ, is termed ^Jhimosis. This may be either congenital or acquired. In Congenital Phimosis the penis is often somewhat atrophied, and the development of the glans is prevented by the pressure of the narrow prepuce. The constricting band which prevents the retraction of the foreskin is always situated at the junction of the skin and the mucous membrane. Without marked contraction of the preputial orifice it may be impossible to retract the prepuce on account of its adhesion to the glans. In the majority of cases a long foreskin is simply a source of local inconvenience ; but it may become a source of disease. Thus, in children, retention of the sebaceous secretion— " smegma preputii "—becomes a source of local irritation and inflammation from decomposition. The irritation thus kept up (Fig. 935) favours the early development of the habit of masturbation. In some cases the preputial orifice is so tight as to interfere with the discharge of the urine, which passes from the urethra into a kind of pouch between the glans and prepuce, distends this structure, and is then squeezed in a fine jet or in a scattered sprinkling.