SARCOMA OF BONE. case of the lone? bones the Surgeon must consider the possibility of removing the diseased part of the bone by gouging or excision before resorting to amputation. Sarcomata of Bone—Primary Malignant Tumours op Bone.—Car- cinoma never occurs primarily in bone ; the tumours formerly classed as primary encephaloid or scirrhous cancer of bone, osteo-cancer, osteo-cephaloma, &c., all belong to the class of sarcomata. Carcinoma only attacks bone as a secondary growth, or by extension from a primary growth commencing in the epithelium of a gland, of the skin, or of a mucous membrane. Our knoAvledge of sarcoma of bone has been greatly increased by the inves- tigations of Gross of Philadelphia and Butlin of London. For the purpose of classification, sarcomata of bone are divided, first into central, springing from the cancellous tissue or the medullary canal, a.nd periosteal, sulperiosteal or peripheral, arising on the surface of the compact bone ; secondly, they are subdivided according to the structure of the growth, into spindle-celled, round- celled, mixed spindle- and round-celled, and myeloid. Gross makes a separate division for osteoid or ossifying sarcoma, and separates cartilaginous tumours entirely, placing them in another group. Butlin classes ossifying sarcomata and chondro-sarcomata, according to the form of the cells (spindle, round, or mixed,) met with in the growing margin of the tumour. The microscopic structure of these various forms of sarcoma has already been described in the Chapter on Tumours (Yol. I. p. 1037). Gross gives the following as the relative frequency of the different forms of sarcoma among the 165 cases affecting the long bones which formed the basis of his paper : central myeloid sai-coma, 70 ; periosteal ossifying sarcoma, 45 ; central spindle-celled sarcoma, 16 ; periosteal round-celled sarcoma, 13 ; central round-celled sarcoma, 12 ; periosteal spindle-celled sarcoma, 9. Of all forms of sarcoma, out of 149 cases, 87 occurred in males and 62 in females; and of 147 in which the age was ascertained, 110 occurred before 30. The central spindle-celled sarcoma was the only form that Gross found to occur more frequently after 30 than before. In about half the cases the disease was attributed to injury. The various long bones were affected in the following order : femur, 67 ; tibia, 46 ; humerus, 25 ; fibula, 13 ; ulna, 7 ; radius, 6 ; ulna and radius, 1.' The following table, showing the malignancy of the various forms of sarcoma affecting the long bones, is so important that I reproduce it entire.