DISEASES OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. 1222 tValn? T ^ " r'i'"^ '""^-""^ ^'^^^'"''^--"^ about the la^num and some solid oedema usually remains forso.no weeks after the ope tion. IlHS o-radually subsides, and a linear cicatrix remains, whicii cause t patient no inconvenience. Paraphimosis.-Tn parapJdmosi, the prepuce has been forcibly drawn back behind he glans, wluch becomes strangled by the pressure exercised by ti). preputial orifice, so that the parts cannot be replaced in proper relation to one another. This accident principally occurs in boys, or in individuals who have naturally a tigh prepuce, and who, on uncovering the glans, find it difficult to get this part of the organ back. This difficulty is speedily and greatly in- creased by the swelling from congestion that is set up in the constricted glans It may also result from inflammatory 8v^'elling of tiie prepuce due to l)alano- posthitis, and other causes in cases in which no phimosis previously existed l ie Treatment is simple. The Surgeon should first try to reduce the swollen organ. He may often succeed in doing this by seizing the body of the penis between the index and middle fingers of each hand, and endeavourin^r Fig. 937.—netluctioii of Paiaphiinosis. Fig. 93S.~IiKisioii in Opera- tion for Par.ii>liiiiiosis. to draw the prepuce forwards, at the same time that lie compresses the glaus between the two thumbs and pushes it back (Fig. 937). Should reduction not be effected in this way, the constricted and strangulating preputial orifice must be divided. In doing this, the Surgeon will observe that the glans is separated from the body of the penis by a deep and narrow sulcus, which is especially evident on the upper part of the organ. This sulcus, which is overlapped on one side by the skin of the penis, and on the other by the swollen mucous layer of the prepuce, corresponds to the inner margin of the preputial orifice ; and it is by the division of this, in which the stricture is situated, that immediate relief will be given. This operation may readily be done by drawing the glans and swollen prepuce forwards, then passing the point of a narrow-bladed scalpel into the sulcus on the dorsum of the penis, and making a perpendicular incision about one third of an inch in length through the integuments at the bottom of the groove (Fig. 938). In consequence of the great stretching of the parts, the incision will immediately gape widely ; so that, instead of being longitudinal, it will appear to be transverse ; and then reduction of the glans may readily be effected.