6i8 DISEASES OF THE TllYROLD aLAND. Excision of Half the Thyroid Body is best done by an incision in the middle line, irom the upper Ixjrdcr of tlie tuuKiur to the sternal notch From the upper extremity of this a lateral incision may be carried outwards and u,j. wards along the upper border of the tumour, as far as may be necessary. The platysma and deep cervical fascia are then divided to the extent of the wound and the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid and omo-hyoid muscles drawn on on.' side or divided if necessary. Large dilated veins are usually found on th(- surface of the tumour, which must be carefully divided between double liga- tures. The sterno-mastoid and the carotid sheath are drawn carefully out- wards with copper spatulas and the upper part of the tumour isolated by tearing through the areolar tissue surrounding it with forceps and a blunt instrument such as a director. When the superior thyroid vessels are reached, these may be secured within their sheath bypassing an aneurism needle round them and-tying them m masse. Double ligatures should be used, and the vessels divided between them ; or the vessels may be picked up with forci- pressure forceps, divided and tbe two ends ligatured separately. The upper part of the enlarged lobe can now be turned downwards and the next step consists in separating the outer and lower part and ligaturing the inferior thyroid vessels, special care being taken not to injure or include the recurrent laryn- geal nerve. The tumour may now be carefully raised towards the middle line until the isthmus is reached. This must be divided in the middle line, all bleeding vessels being secured as they are cut, or it may be transfixed with an aneurism needle and ligatured with stout silk. Jacobson prefers to divide the isthmus before proceeding to ligature the inferior thyroid vessels. The dangers during the operation are haemorrhage, entrance of air into the dilated veins, wound of the internal jugular vein, to which the tumour is sometimes adherent, and injury to the recurrent laryngeal nerve. These can be avoided only by careful dissection, and by the application of double liga- tures to every vessel before it is divided. If the tumour be very large, a part may be removed from the opposite side, but some portion of the gland should always be left. Excision of the Isthmus of the thyroid has been recoinmended by Tillaux as a means of cure in certain cases of bronchocele, the effect of the operation being to lead to atrophy of the enlarged lateral lobes of the thyroid. Tillaux in Paris, and Sydney Jones and others in this country, have practised the operation successfully in several cases. The operation consists in exposing the isthmus by a median incision, passing a ligature round it at each end, tying them tightly, and then excising the intervening portion. Jones advises that the wound should be well drained. The results appear to have been very satisfactory. Scooping out a portion of the Thyroid Body by means of a large sharp spoon has been practised with success by Lister and others. An incision is made near the edge of the sterno-mastoid, avoiding any large veins that may be visible. On exposing the tumour an opening is made into it by means of Paquelin's cautery. The sharp spoon is then introduced, and a considerable portion of the substance of the tumour rapidly scooped out. The haBinorrhage, which is usually very free, may be restrained by pressure, and, if necessary, the cavity must immediately be plugged with some efficient antiseptic material. The plugs may be removed in a few days, and a drainage-tube inserted. In all operations on the thyroid body the strictest antiseptic precautions