566 DEFORMITIES OF THE LE(; AND FOOT. shoiteiun}? of the lateral ligameuts chiefly towards the plantar side. The teudons and iirolonf-ations of the plantar fascia are normal. In the trealment of this condition the toe may sometimes be straightened by subcutaneous division of any resisting structures opposite the head of the second phalanx but the relief given is often imperfect and seldom permanent. Amputation of tlie deformed toe has consequently frequently been recommended and per- formed, but this has the disadvantage of leaving the outer side of the great toe unsupported, and thus giving rise to hallux valgus. Anderson reconj- inends excision of the head of the first phalanx by a longitudinal incision on the lateral aspect of the deformed toe. This leaves the toe straight and completely relieves the deformity. Hallux Plexus.—Under this name a condition was first described by Davies-GoUey which is characterized by a contraction of the metatarso- phalangeal, much more rarely of the inter-phalangeal, joint of the great toe. The deformity is analogous to the hammer toe above described. It occurs most commonly in boys, and appears usually to have no relation to injury, or to the wearing of too short boots. In an ordinary case the proximal phalanx is flexed to an angle of from 30° to 60° and is incapable of extension ; the distal phalanx is in a straight line "with the first. The metatarso-phalangeal joint is often slightly enlarged. The deformity greatly cripples the patient, obliging him to walk on the outer side of the foot. W. Anderson explains the deformity as the result of imperfect development of the lower fibres of the lateral ligaments of the affected joint. The treatment of the slighter forms of hallux flexus should consist in rubbing and manipulation with the object of straightening the toe. Anderson recom- mends walking on tiptoe as useful in helping extension, and in more severe cases has forcibly over-extended the toe under an anassthetic, and fixed it so with plaster of Paris. If other methods fail, an attempt may be made to straighten the toe by the division of the contracted ligaments. Davies-Colley has found the most efficient treatment to be excision of the proximal half of the first phalanx through a longitudinal incision made at the upper aspect of the inner border of the toe. A stiff joint results, but this causes little inconvenience. Hallux Valgus has already been described at p. 509. Supernumerary and "Webbed Toes are sometimes met with. It is com-