CHRONIC PROSTATITIS. ii39 , atheter, used for the relief of retention of urine caused by the BweUing ; the matter escaping along the side of and through the instrument. Treatment.—It not unfrequently happens that the first certain indication •itforded to the Surgeon of the formation of a prostatic abscess is the escape of pus by the urethra, or mixed with the urine, so as to give this fluid a thick milky appearance. In such circumstances, the only available treatment is rhat for the relief of the strangury and local vesical irritation already described. But if, as sometimes happens, the pus come forward into the permaeum, and a hard brawny mass be felt, a deep incision should be made into this. The Surgeon must not wait for fluctuation, but must cut deeply in the direction of tlie matter, keeping, however, as nearly as possible in the middle line, with the liack of the knife towards the rectum. Even if no pus escape at first, it may do so if the part be well fomented for a few hours ; and thus communication with the urethra or rectum may be prevented. It is rarely necessary to open the abscess into the rectum, but this may be unavoidable if the abscess appears to be on the point of bursting through the mucous membrane. The bowels must first be thoroughly opened, and the rectum cleared with an enema. The patient is then auEesthetized and placed in the hthotomy [position, the pelvis being well raised on a pillow. A duck-bill speculum is next passed, and the fluctuating spot incised with a scalpel ; the opening is then dilated with a pair of polypus-forceps, and a drainage-tube inserted. The tube falls out in a few hours, and need not be replaced, as the cavity I usually closes rapidly as soon as the pus is let out. If the incision be limited, and kept as nearly as possible in the middle line, there is no haemorrhage of any consequence. * Retention of Urine from Prostatitis may be due to swelling of the gland, to infiltration of exudation-matter around it, or to the formation of pus in it. If the symptoms are not urgent a morphia suppository should be administered, and the patient should try to pass water in a hot hip-bath. If that fails an instrument must be passed. A soft india-rubber catheter should first be tried. If that fails a soft elbowed catheter not smaller than No. 8 (Enghsh scale) should be tried. If soft instruments fail the Surgeon must fall back on silver catheters. In these cases the neck of the bladder may be carried to a considerable distance from the surface, and may then not be reached by an ordinary catheter, which may be buried up to the rings and yet not enter the cavity of that organ. In these circumstances a silver prostatic catheter should be employed ; and this must be carefully introduced, lest, by entering the cavity of an abscess which has already burst per urethram, it might be supposed to have entered- the bladder itself. In introducing the instrument, care should be taken to keep its point constantly in contact with the upper surface of the urethra, and to hook it round the pubes. The upjJer surface of the urethra is a sure guide to the bladder ; for any abscess, false ])assage, or irregularity of direction will always first affect the lower aspect of this canal, being surrounded by yielding structures ; whilst the upper part, being firmly supported by bone and ligament, cannot so readily alter its direction. Chronic Inflammation of the Prostate may follow the acute affection, especially when it is gonorrhoeal. It may also be induced by masturbation and other forms of erotic excitement. The patient is troubled by a sense of weight and fulness in the perinseum, and there may be an occasional glairy ■1 D 2