LITHOTBITY: TEE OPERATION. 1087 4 The last stage of the operation consists in Removing the Fragments bv means of the Evacuator. For this purpose an evacuating catheter (Fio-s 881 88-? p 1080) is passed into the bladder. This should be the largest rhe^'urethra will safely admit. This has already been determined by measure- ment with the urethrometer or conical sound. Bigelow generally uses No. 29 French (18 English), but Thompson states that he seldom finds it necessary to exceed No. 15 or 16 of the English scale. Bigelow prefers the straight instrument (Fig. 881), but the curved catheters usually pass more easily. Firm pressure is commonly required to pass the catheter, but no undue force must be used. It is better to use a smaller size than to run the risk of injuring the urethra by attempting to force in a larger instrument than it can safely take. The catheter having been passed, the bladder is completely emptied ; the fluid that escapes being caught in a vessel and strained through muslin to collect any fragments of the stone that it may contain. It is essential that the india-rubber bulb should be of sufficient strength ; otherwise the regurgitant stream will not be sufficiently forcible to withdraw any but the smallest fragments from the bladder. The fluid in the bottle should always contain some antiseptic : boric acid is perhaps the best. The evacuator, previously filled, having been attached to the catheter, by alternately compressing and relaxing the rubber bulb of the instrument the bladder is filled and emptied. At each injection the fragments are thrown up. At each relaxation of the bulb, some are sucked out in the rush of water. These drop into the glass receiver, where they can be seen by the Surgeon, who thus judges of the progress he is making. This process is continued until all fragments are evacuated. Should some have been left behind, too large to pass through the evacuating catheter, the lithotrite must again be introduced, and these broken up sufficiently for evacuation, which must then be resumed and continued until the bladder is emptied of all calculus. The Surgeon knows when fragments are left behind too large to pass, by their falling against the eye of the catheter, blocking it, and thus preventing the return of water into the bulb of the evacuator, as shown by its faihng to expand. This may arise also from the eye of the instrument having come in contact with the wall of the bladder, or from the catheter having been accidentally withdrawn till its end lies in the prostatic urethra. Before concluding that the obstruction is due to a fragment, these two conditions must be excluded, by pushing the catheter a little further in and rotating it. A more certain sign of a fragment is a loud and distinct click every time the bulb is aUowed to expand. The removal of every fragment is the essence of Bigelow's operation. No stone must be left behind. The operation should be concluded at one sitting, however prolonged. The Time Occupied by the Operation varies with the size of the stone and the ease with which the fragments are caught. Before Bigelow demon- strated the safety of prolonged operations under anesthetics, the strictest rules were laid down as to the duration of the sitting. The first was not to exceed four minutes, and it was' considered sufficient to break up the stone, leaving the fragments to be dealt with subsequently. The subsequent sittings were also limited to a few minutes. The sittings were repeated every three or four days till the whole stone was broken up, a longer or shorter interval being- allowed according to the amount of irritation caused by the operation. It was