'^^2 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. coaical pit, and will fail bo recognize the gufc at the bottom of it; and seeondiv to avoid dnttin,. downwards towards the crest of the ilium, as th inc k deepened, from drawmg- the wound to one side with the left hand At tn.s stage of the operation two copper spatulas must be put into the wound, by which It IS drawn widely open. Some loose fat then^ome i t view, which must be carefully torn through with the fingers, no fore. ' other instrument being used. In thin patients this fat is wanting ^Th tascia transversahs next appears. This is a very variable structure ; in U females it ,s scarcely recognizable, while in a thin male it is often so strong a to be mistaken for the peritoneum or the gut. It must be carefully torn through at the posterior part of the wound. The subperitoneal fat, varyiD. in amount with the fatness of the patient, is then exposed, and must be tora through carefully with the fingers. The gut is now reached. If ihe operation is being performed for obstruction, the colon is tensely distended, of a greenish colour, and usually rises up into the wound. In cases in which this operation IS being undertaken for relief of pain in cancer of the rectum, the gut may be collapsed. In this state, not only is it very troublesome to find, but the part uncovered by peritoneum is so small that it is difficult to make an opening without wounding that membrane. All these difficulties are at once overcome by distendmg the gut with air. Lund has invented an ingenious apparatus for this purpose, but the gut can easily be distended by means of an ordinary enema syringe, the anus being closed around the tube by a mass of wet or oiled wool pressed against it by the hand of an assistant. A*s the air enters the gut will be seen and felt rising up in the wound ; and in most cases, if the trans- versalis fascia have been sufficiently torn through, it will rise up to the level of the skin. If from any reason this fails, the gut may be found by pushing the forefinger into the wound till the lower end of the kidney is felt, imme- diately in front of which the colon lies. Pressure on the abdomen will some- times make it appear. In other cases it may be found by turning the patient on his back, passing the forefinger into the posterior part of the" wound, and then seizing between it and the thumb the parts in contact with it. The patient is then rolled again on to his side and the gut drawn up into tlie wound. In whatever way the gut is seized, it must be drawn well up to the level of the skin. The subsequent steps of the operation will diifer according as it is necessary or not to open the bowel at once. If the opening of the gut can be delayed, the anterior and posterior parts of the wound should be closed with sutures including the muscles as well as the skin. The gut is then fixed to the edges of the latter with a series of fine silk sutures passing only through the muscular coat. Some Surgeons dispense with stitches altogether; and a convenient method suggested by Davies-Colley consists in transfixing the gut with two fine pins which rest on the skin. In any case the wound should be dressed antiseptically, and the bowel opened on the fourth or fifth day. If it be necessary to open the bowel at once, the following method should be adopted : Two silk threads, each about two feet long, are passed through the gut and the skin and fat on each side of the wound in the following way. A curved needle is threaded on the suture ; it is first passed through the skin and fat on one side of the wound, then longitudinally through the anterior part of the gut exposed, including about one inch of it; finally the needle is passed from the wound through the skin and fat opposite to the point at