rUUOUBSOF THE BLADDER: DIAGNOSIS. -S- expected from so continuous and copious a loss of blood /he most important ,?:tnd ne which should always be pevsistently s°»gM ^ > h pa-^; * Profuse hsemorrhage, after C t'^'' „f f om t^^^ rectum may detect the presence of the tumour, as m the first case recorded Dy ^ The?e'toours occasionally become encrusted with ^hosphatic matter depos ted upon them by the urine, and then they will resemble still more Sra calculus when the bladder is sounded ; from it, however, hey may be dttinguiL by their fixed character, and by the impossibility of passmg ' TtltXeltTeft unrelieved it terminates fatally sooner or later, some- tim s by exhaustion from constant loss of blood, but more often by disease of thTkidneys induced by the obstruction to the orifices of the uretei-s by the arowth, or by septic inflammation extending to the pelvis of the kidney ^ The Diagnosis can usually be made by attention to the above points but it must be remembered that certain other afl-ections may cause symptoms closely resembling those of a benign tumour. Among these Hurry Fenwick, who has made a special study of this subject, enumerates Certain forms of prostatic congestion occurring in young men ; 2, Certain forms of renal haemorrhage, such as that due to granular kidney (p. 1008) and early carci- noma ; 3, Urethral caruncle in the female ; and 4, Stone m the bladder especially in elderly men, if the bladder be insensitive, or the stone lodged behind the prostate. In practised hands the employment of the electric cystoscope has proved of the greatest value in the detection of simple tumours of the bladder, and as a means of distinguishing between this disease and other causes of painless hjematuria (p. 1135). Not only may the presence of the tumour be ascertained, but valuable information may be gained as to its size and situation. In the cases in which the Surgeon is unable to make a certain diagnosis by other methods, he may proceed to explore the bladder digitally through an opening, which will also serve for the removal of the growth, if such be found to exist. This exploration may be carried out through a perinseal incision, similar to that recommended by Thompson in some cases of irritable bladder ; but, as a general rule, suprapubic cystotomy allows a more thorough examina- tion, and is far more convenient for the removal of the tumour. Should there be no papilloma, the method of examination will determine the condition of the interior of the bladder, the presence or not of malignant disease, or of encysted calculus, and if none of these are present, will serve as an opening ^through which drainage may be maintained, in the hope of relieving the irritability or chronic inflammation from which the patient is suffering. In females the bladder is easily explored by dilatation of the urethra and