66i OPERATION FOR DEPRESSED NOSE. to the bridge of the new nose are removed, and necrosis of the bent or rather broken fragment of bone, which has actually occurred, is not an unlikely accident. A shght modification of the operation, which has been adopted by several Surgeons, consists in utilizing instead of removing the integumentary covering of the stump of the nose. This is raised in one or two flaps, which being turned downwards receive the frontal flap on their raw surface. The employ- ment of skin-grafting to expedite the heahng of the wound on the forehead will naturally suggest itself to the operator. Should the operation fail, or from any reason be not advisable, the patient may be fitted with a paiuted vulcanite nose, attached to spectacles, by which the deformity is most efficiently concealed. Fistulous Openings through the Nasal Bones leading into the interior of the nose are occasionally met with. Such apertures as these are best closed by paring the edges, and then bringing forward a flap of neighbouring skin by the gliding operation. The cuts represent a case many years since under my care, before and the day after operation, in which a large aperture into the side of the nose, resulting from necrosis of the lefo nasal bone consequent on scarlet fever (Fig. 711), was successfully closed by a flap of skin taken from the forehead by the twisting process (Fig. 712). The patient, who was a child at the time of the operation, was seen many years •after the operation, and presented scarcely any disfigurement. Operation for Depressed Nose.—Sometimes the nose is depressed in ■consequence of the loss of the septum, though the external parts remain entire. Dieffenbach proposed a plan for raising it by slitting it longitudinally into three pieces ; dissecting the lateral slips from the osseous attachments ; paring the edges to such an extent that they overlap, and stitching them togetlier ; •then bringing the whole organ forwards by pushing long hare-Hp pins across lbs base, so as to elevate and narrow its attachments, which are brought more into the mesial line. Fergusson improved this procedure by not slitting the •nose down, but dissecting it away from the bones from within the nostril, and