550 DEFOL'MITIES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. ankylosis of the knee-joint with angular deformity. The proceeding conBists in excising a wedge-shaped piece of the shaft of the femur ahove the condyles not including the whole diameter of the bone, then fracturing the undivided portion, and so bringing the limb into a straight position. Buck, of New York, in 184-1, modi tied this operation by sawing out a wedge-shaped portion, consisting of the condyles of the femur, the patella, and the head of the tibia! In one case, that of Jieii, the femoral artery had to be tied for secondary ha3morrhage from the popliteal on the fifteenth day ; but the patient made an excellent recovery with a useful limb, lirainard of Chicago, in 1854, proposed a simple method for remedying angular osseous ankylosis of the knee, which before the introduction of the antiseptic treatment of wounds was preferable to the open methods. It consisted in drilling the femur subcutaneously and then fracturing the bone. This operation was first done by Pancoast in 1859, and subsequently by Braiuard, Gross, and others, who extended it to subcutaneous perforation of the joint and to separation of the patella. At the present day the only operation which is practised for angular osseous ankylosis of the knee is antiseptic osteotomy. The method adopted must depend upon the position of the limb. If the flexion is considerable a wedge- shaped piece should be removed from the lower end of the femur with a saw or osteotome ; the width of the base of the wedge being proportional to the amount of flexion. In order to avoid any risk of wounding the popliteal vessels it may be advisable not to penetrate the whole thickness of the femur, but to leave the posterior layer of compact tissues to be subsequently fractured, as practised by Barton. If the flexion be less marked simple osteotomy of the femur may be suflScient, or it may also be, found advisable, according to Volkmann, to cut through the tibia just below its head. The most suitable incision in these cases will be found one extending across the prominent end of the femur from one condyle to the other. The methods of adjusting the; bones and the subsequent treatment are the same as after excision of the knee (p. 452). Ankylosis of the knee in the straight position interferes comparatively little with the utility of the limb. It is, however, desirable, when practic- able, to restore the mobility of the joint. The possibihty of doing this will depend on the degree of ankylosis. If this be osseous, or even densely fibrous, little can be done ; but if the rigidity depend chiefly on condensation of the capsule, and fibroid induration outside the joint, much may be effected by the use of properly constructed apparatus. This should be of two kinds: 1. A leg-and-thigh piece securely laced on to the limb, having an angular joint opposite the knee, and connected posteriorly by a strong band of vulcanized india-rubber, the elastic tension of which is constantly striving to overcome the straightened limb by flexing it backwards ; and 2, a similar apparatus, with rack-and-pinion, instead of elastic, by which the knee can be forcibly flexed once at least in the day. , 1 • Ankylosis of the knee in the angular 2Josition fonmrds, so that the leg is over-extended upon the thigh, is very rare. Indeed, I am acquainted with only three preparations illustrating this deformity-one m the museum ot University College, one in that of St. Thomas's Hospital, and another exhibited by Adams to the Pathological Society, from a limb amputated by Grant ot Canada, in which this condition occurred to a young man as a consequence ot a wound of the joint some years previously.