PATHOLOGY OF LUPUS. encoaraging. Painting with iodine has also been recommended. It excites a certain degree of inflammation after a few applications, in consequence of which the sebaceous phigs in the ducts of the follicles seem to become softened and discharged, thus causing temporary improvement. Crocker speaks highly of Hebra's treatment with spirit soap for cases in which there is no active congestion. Soft soap and alcohol in equal parts are well rubbed into the patch with a piece of lint or flannel. This removes the scales and sebaceous plugs. The process is repeated every few days, and, according to Crocker, a small patch may sometimes be completely cured in a few weeks. Linear scarification repeated at intervals of about a week has been found beneficial in some cases. In others the daily application of collodion has been of use. Iiupus Vulgaris or Lupus : Pathological Appearances.—This disease commences in the deep layer of the cutis vera. In its earliest stage circular accumulations of small round cells are seen displacing the bundles of fibrous tissue. The surrounding vessels are dilated, and new capiUaries exist amongst the cells, and thus the nodule resembles in structure ordinary granulation tissue. These circular masses of cells gradually increase in size, and by their pressure destroy the tissue of the true skin and thus approach the surface, until at last the papillary layer is implicated and the new growth is covered merely by the epithelium. During this process neighbouring groups of cells coalesce, and processes of cell infiltration extend along the vessels and surround the hair bulbs and follicles, so that in its fully developed stage a lupoid tubercle consists of an infiltration, and more or less complete destruction, of the normal tissue of the skin from the papillje to the subcutaneous fat. On examining a section of a fully developed patch, non-vascular nodules composed of a giant cell, surrounded by larger " epithelioid " cells, and again by ordinary lymphoid or small round cells, will always be met with. These are identicnl in appearance with the nodules of tubercle, a fact which led Friedlander and Koster to regard lupus as a local tuberculosis of the skin. This view has received confirmation fi'om the observations of Cornil, Leloir, Koch, and others, who have demonstrated the presence of the tubercle bacillus in the diseased tissues. The bacilli are very few in number and not easy to find. Koch states that he has never found more than one in a single giant cell. Leloir found that the inoculation of the lupoid tissue into rabbits gave rise to general tuberculosis in about half the animals experimented on, and subsequently Koch obtained a pure cultivation of the [bacillus from lupus, which was successfully inoculated on guinea-pigs. That lupus vulgaris is a local tuberculosis afifecting the skin is therefore the generally received opmion at the present time. A further proof of the tuberculous nature of lupus vulgaris is afi-orded by the reaction which follows the injection of tuberculin (see Yol. I., p. 1102). After a patch of lupus has reached its full development, retrogressive chano-es take place. These may be of two kinds. In the first, some of the cells may become cloudy from fatty degeneration, break up, and be absorbed, while a development of cicatricial fibrous tissue takes place from the remainder Thus the process comes to an end without ulceration, and although the epithelial covering has been throughout intact, a scar results similar in appearance to that caused by a superficial burn. When the disease takes this course it is described as non-ulcerative lupus, lupus non exedens or lupus exMMivus (Kaposi). In the second form the fatty degeneration affects the whole of the