TUBERCULOUS KIDNEY. 1015 maybe employed. Morris uses three sutures, which penetrate halt an mch into the kidney substance, and are passed through the transversalis fascia and muscles. Some Surgeons recommend that the fibrous capsule should be reflected li'om that part of the surface of the kidney which will he in contact with the abdominal wall. The incision is closed with sutures, drained, and dressed in the usual way. Keen has collected 134 cases of nephrorrhaphy with 4 deaths. In not a few instances the operation has failed to relieve the symptoms completely, although it has succeeded in fixing the kidney. TUBEECULOUS KIDNEY. The pathology and symptoms of this disease are fully described in works on medicine. It will be sufficient to allude here merely to those points that have a bearing on surgery. Tuberculous disease of the kidney is indeed of considerable interest to the Surgeon, not only because he may be called upon to perform nephrotomy or nephrectomy for this condition, but because in a considerable proportion of cases the early symptoms are referred by the patient to the lower urinary tract, and may closely simulate stone and various other vesical affections. Tubercle of the kidney may form merely a part of general tuberculosis, but in these cases the infection occurs late in the disease, and gives rise to no symptoms. Primary tuberculosis of the kidney may commence in that organ, and be limited to it for some time, or it may be merely a part of general tuberculous disease of the genito-urinary tract. When the disease begins in the kidney, it commences by the formation of a caseating centre in the cortex, or at the base of a pyramid. This softens and gradually extends until, by the destruction of the pyramid corresponding to the affected part, it reaches the pelvis, and the products of the process mixed with pus are discharged with the urine. Several such centres in various stages of softening and disintegration are usually met with in the same kidney. The mucous membrane of the pelvis then becomes affected, and the disease extends to the bladder. In some cases the disease follows the reverse course, commencing in the prostate or bladder, and extending upwards to the kidney. It frequently happens in the later stages that the ureter becomes obliterated. The disease then follows one of two courses : either the chronic suppuration continues and the remains of the kidney become distended into a huge abscess, which may finally point in the loin or burst into the gut, or the fluid parts of the pus may be absorbed and the residue form a thick putty-like mass, which may remain unchanged for months or years. The former condition must necessarily occur if any secreting 8uV)stance remains undestroycd in the kidney. The Post-mortem Appearances of a kidney in the advanced stages are the following :—The whole kidney is greatly enlarged, often to five or six times its natural size. The perinephritic fat is densely indurated by chronic inflam- mation, and intimately blended with the capsule ; the capsule is thickened, but separates with moderate ease from the cortex ; the cortex, if any remains, is thin and tough ; the pyramids have disappeared, the pelvis and calyces are dilated, and the whole cavity is filled with a thick creamy or putty-like mass having a sour offensive smell. In less advanced cases only one or two pyra- mids with the corresponding part of the cortex may be affected. Two important facts with regard to this affection are: First, that in a large proportion of cases