24 DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. tion just described. It is best done by flexing the thigh fully on the abdomen with tlie knee bent, and tlien, while the thigh is fixed, extending the leg. The conductivity of the sciatic nerve is not affected at all, or only to a very slight degree, by force used in the operation. It has been suggested that this acts by breaking down adhesions either amongst the fibres or between the sheath and surrounding structures. Marshall believes it acts by stretching or even rupturing the small nervi nervorum ramifying in the perineui-ium and in the epineurium, which must be more or less implicated and pressed upon by any inflammatoiy growth or exudation in chronic neuritis. NEUBALGIA. Neuralgia frequently occurs in surgical practice, either complicating other diseases, or as a distinct aflFcction simulating closely various organic lesions, more especially of joints and bones. Symptoms.—The pain in neuralgia is the essential symptom. It may be of two kinds : either following anatomically the course of a nerve and the distribution of its filaments ; or affecting a considerable portion of the surface without reference to any special nerve. It is of all degrees of severity, sometimes moderate, sometimes unbearable, even by those who possess the greatest fortitude. When severe, it usually comes on suddenly, with a kind of shock, and continues as a sharp, darting, or tearing sensa- tion, coursing along the trunk or ramifications of the affected nerve, the distribution of which may often be distinctly indicated by the direction the pain takes. It is often accompanied by other sensations, such as a tickling, smarting, or creeping feeling on the aifected surface ; it is in some instances relieved by pressure, in others increased by the slightest touch or movement of the part. Occasionally there is a spasm in the muscles supplied by the affected nerve ; in other cases, there are heat and redness of the surface, with increased secretion from the neighbouring organs, as a Slow of saliva or tears when the nerves of the jaw or eye are implicated. The duration of an attack may vary from a few moments to many days or months. The pain is most commonly intermittent or remittent; it is often irregularly so, but in some instances the periodicity is well marked. Situations.—This disease may affect almost any part of the body ; it is most commonly seated distinctly in the trunk and branches of a nerve. The divisions of the fifth pair are the most frequent seat of. neuralgia ; the pain may extend to all the branches of this nerve on one side of the head and face, but more commonly it is confined to one of its principal divisions, such as the infra-orbital, which is especially liable to be aflFected ; in many instances it is seated in the temporal and dental nerves. Not unfrequently some of the terminal twigs alone of one of these nerves become the seat of intense pain ; thus occasionally the affection is found limited to a patch on the cheek, brow, or temple, from which it scarcely ever shifts. The posterior branches of the dorsal spinal nerves, and the intercostals, are also very commonly affected, though not to the same extent as the fifth pair. In other cases the whole of an organ, or part, becomes the seat of neuralgia, though no one nerve may appear to be distinctly implicated : thus the testes, the breast, the uterine organs, or one of the larger joints, as the hip or knee, are occa-