CYSTS /iV CONNEXION WITH JOINTS. 367 drawing the skin on one side after the first iucisiou before opening the capsule. Anything like a valved opening should be carefully avoided when antiseptics are used, as it interferes with drainage. Formerly the operation was not uncommonly followed by septic arthritis, ending in ankylosis of the joint, or the death of the patient, and sometimes necessitating amputation of the limb. In the present day it is rarely followed by synovial inflammation even of the slightest kind. It was proposed by Chassaignac, in order to obviate the dangers of a direct opening into the joint, to remove the loose cartilage by subcutaneous section. In operating by this method on the knee, the cartilage should be fixed below and to one side of the patella, between it and the head of the tibia ; a long naiTow tenotome is then introduced obliquely under the skin from a distance of about two inches below the loose cartilage ; the capsule of the joint is freely divided, and a space made in the subcutaneous areolar tissue by a slight sweep of the blade ; the loose cartilage is next pressed into the cavity thus made to receive it, and slid along the areolar tissue for about two inches. It is fixed in situ with a firm pad and adhesive plaster ; the foot and leg are bandaged up to the edge bf the cartilage, and the limb is placed on a splint. If no inflammatory symptoms ensue, the cartilage is excised about a week after the operation ; or it may be left to be absorbed. By the adoption of the subcutaneous method there will be very little danger of inducing undue inflammation in the joint, the entrance of air being prevented ; it is this, and not the mere section of the capsule and synovial membrane, which constitutes the chief risk. Should there be more than one loose cartilage, the operation must be repeated, but not until any inflammation induced by the former one has been subdued. In this way I have successfully removed in succession five loose cartilages from one knee. CYSTS IN CONNEXION WITH JOINTS. Morrant Baker has called especial attention to the occurrence of cysts in the neighbourhood of diseased joints, appearing superficially at such a distance from the articulation that their connexion with it may not at first be apparent. These cysts are of various kinds. It has already been pointed out that in hydrarthrosis pouch-like projections may protrude from the synovial membrane owing to the pressure of the fluid efi'used into the joint. This may occur in tuberculous dropsy (p. 346), or in Charcot's disease. The fluid thus escaping from the joint may, while still contained in a thin membranous sac, extend to a considerable distance from it. Thus, from the knee it may reach to the middle of the calf, or from the shoulder along the long tendon of the biceps to the middle of the arm. The communication with the joint may be so small that pressure will not force the fluid into the articular cavity. A chronic abscess from a diseased joint may follow the same course, and become superficial at a point far removed from its point of origin. In other cases cysts may be formed by distension of bnrs^ or synovial sheaths in the immediate neighbourhood of a diseased joint either communicating or not with its cavity. Thus the bursa under the inner head of the gastrocnemius in disease of the knee or that under the deltoid in the shoulder, or under the psoas and iliacus in the hip, may become distended with fluid. The so-called " compound ganglion of the wrist " is often associated with chronic tuberculous