479 POTT'S DISEASE: PATHOLOGY. forwards of that portion of the column, and a corresponding projection back- wards of the spinous processes. A vertical section made through a spme thus affected shows the anterior common ligament thickened and swollen. The bodies of the affected vertebrge are softened and partly destroyed, the destruction being almost invariably more extensive anteriorly, as this part is exposed to the oreater pressure when the spine is bent forwards. The intervertebral cartilage between the two vertebrae has more or less completely disappeared ; if any remains it will be at the posterior part. The opposed surfaces of the vertebra are covered by granulation tissue, and are sometimes mutually adapted to each other as the result of friction. In the cancellous spaces of the bone on each side the normal medulla has disappeared, and its place is taken by the same tissue. The periosteum covering the remaining portion of the vertebra and frequently also that of the vertebrge above and below is affected by osteo- Fig. 602.—Angular Curvatm-e of Fig. 603.—Caries of Bodies of Lumbar the Dorsal Spine from Caries Vertebrce.: no attempt at Anky- and Ankylosis. losis. plastic inflammation, irregular spiculated nodules of new bone being formed beneath it. The spines, the transverse and the articular processes being unaffected, there is no dislocation, and consequently the spinal canal is but little if at all narrowed. Should the disease cease at this stage, as it frequently does, the granulation tissue of the opposed surfaces coalesces, and subsequently hecomes developed into bone, and the angle formed by the bending of the spine is filled up by a buttress of bone formed beneath the periosteum, and thus the spine, although retaining its deformed position, may become as strong as before the disease (Fig. 002). In other cases of caries of the spine the disease is more extensive, com- mencing from many centres, often situated in different vertebrte and un- connected with each other. These centres are situated most commonly in the immediate neighbourhood of an intervertebral disc, but are not uncommon on the surface of the body beneath the periosteum, and are sometimes deeply