io66 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. prostatic veins. It is very seldom that any trouble arises from superficial veins ; but in one case I have seen very considerable loss of blood occur from a large vein, ruuuing transversely near the upper angle of the wound, lyin^ almost immediately under the skin, which had been incompletely divided Brom the prostatic plexus haemorrhage is most likely to occur in old people in whom the veins in this situation are often enlarged-almost varicose! ' Whether the blood come from a superficial or from a deep source, it is very apt to find Its way back into the bladder, to mix with the urine, and thus to escape through the tube rather than from the wound itself ; or the blood may probably coagulate in the interior of the bladder, distending that organ and producing a feeling of dysuria. Should it proceed from a superficial source It may be necessary, as was done in the case just alluded to, to pass a ligature under the vessel, and thus arrest it. If it occur from the prostatic veins, the better plan will be to plug the wound. This is done by passing long strips of Imt along the side of the tube, which must be left in the wound°and kept pervious : or the lithotomy tube may have a " petticoat " of thick muslin tied around it, mto which the strips of lint are stuffed. The advantage of this arrangement is, that the whole apparatus may very easily be removed together at the end of forty-eight hours. A far more efficient means of applying pressure is the "Air Tampon," in- vented by Buckston Browne. It consists of an ordinary gum-elastic lithotomy- tube, surrounded by an india-rubber bag, which can be distended with air from a syringe. It is inserted into the wound, so that the india-rubber bag fills its whole length. On distending the bag, firm uniform pressure of any desired force can be applied. After from twelve to twenty-four hours, a little air can be let out so as to reduce the pressure, and this is repeated at intervals till the tube can be removed. Hsemorrhage from any of the above-named sources, but more especially from the deep arteries a,nd veins, may take place info the bladder. When this occurs, the urine that escapes will be seen to be deeply mixed with blood, and coagula will form in the interior of the viscus, which becomes distended and rises above the pubes, with dulness on percussion in the hypogastric region. The patient will become pale, faint, and cold. In such circum- stances, the coagula must be washed out of the bladder with cold water, the source of heemorrhage ascertained by an examination of the wound, the further flow of blood arrested by plugging or ligature, restoratives adminis- tered, the pelvis placed high, and the patient kept cool. If there is any difficulty in washing the clots out of the bladder they may easily be sucked out by applying the aspirator to the tube. Wound of the Bulb is not of very uncommon occurrence in lithotomy; and, I believe, is of no consequence beyond furnishing a small additional quantity of blood. Indeed, the bulb is so situated, in many cases overlapping the membranous portion of the urethra, that this can scarcely be opened with- out wounding it. Missing the Urethra altogether, and opening up the bladder through, or even altogether beyond, the prostate, is an accident that may happen if the Surgeon miscalculate the depth of the perinaeum, and keeping the incisions too low, thrust the knife too deeply. It is, I believe, an inevitably fatal accident, as in it the base of the bladder and the recto-vesical fascia are opened, and the patient is thus exposed to the occurrence of diffuse inilammation of, and