T CONTRACTION OF KNEE-JOINT. 545 1,1 4G. In 8 cases only did suppuration take place. In 5 cases the operation was followed by death, but in none of these was the fatal result directly due to tlie osteotomy, one dying of tuberculous meningitis, one of phthisis, two of diphtheria, and one of pneumonia, which had commenced before the operation was performed. The average duration of the treatment is about ten weeks, six in splints and four in hospital or at home learning to walk. The patient is usually fully restored to activity in three months from the time of operation. . Although Macewen's supracondyloid osteotomy is the operation which, at •the present day, is the most extensively practised for genu valgum, some (Surgeons prefer to divide the femur with a fine straight saw from the outer iside. This is very readily done by making a small incision on to the outer •.surface of the bone with a narrow straight bistoury, which is carried across ithe front of the femur, in order to divide the periosteum. As the knife is ^withdrawn the saw is introduced, and the bone sawn from before backwards i through about two-thirds of its thickness, the remainder being fractured. The line of division should have the same direction, but should be at a rather hiofher level than in Macewen's oneration. Genu Varum, Genu Extrorsum or Bow-knee, is the reverse of genu valgum. It is almost invariably the result of rickets, and is associated with rickety curves of the tibia and femur. It commences in early childhood, and 'may then be remedied by properly constructed splints. If not cured at this age, osteotomy may be required later on. It may be necessary to divide the tibia as well as the femur. II Genu Becurvatum is a rare congenital malformation in which the leg is in a position of over-extension. It is believed to be due to accidental extension instead of flexion of the lower extremities in utero. It is sometimes associated with spina bifida. In some cases the patella has been either imperfectly developed or absent. Great benefit, or even cure, may be effected by the early application of an apparatus gradually bringing the limb into the flexed position. Contraction of the Knee-Joint.-^In this condition the knee is fixed in a flexed position, either temporarily by muscular action, or permanently by chronic changes in or around the joint. The pathological conditions which inay occasion the deformity are very numerous, but independently of its cause two chief varieties are met with :—1. Simple flexion of the leg on . the thigh, at a greater or smaller angle, and with more or less mobility according to the condition of the joint. 2. In addition to this, there may be horizontal displacement of the bones, the head of the tibia being thrown backwards, the femur and patella projecting more than is natural. In examining a case of contraction of the knee-joint, the patient should be placed on his face, with the thigh extended. The leg on the affected side will then be raised more or less perpendicularly, and the amount of contraction may be accurately judged of by the angle that it forms with the thigh. The degree of mobility may also readily be ascertained. fin the consideration of this subject it will be convenient to deal separately with the three following conditions :—1. Contraction due to active inflam- mation of the knee.—2. Hysterical contraction.—3. Chronic contraction. 5 Contraction from Inflammation of the Knee.—In inflammation of the knee, the patient instinctively places the limb in the semiflexed position,