SOLID TUMOURS or. THE. NECK. 6ii of the cyst takes place : it however soon fills "again. A permanent cure may be effected by injection with iodine, or by opening the cyst, spong-ing i out ^vith chloride of zinc (gr. xl. to 3]), attaching the wall to the skin by su ures and inserting a drainage-tube. It is usually impossible to dissect the cyst out owin^^ to the depth of its attachments and the thinness of its wall. 3 Blood-Cyst or Hematocele of the Neck.—This may be merely one of the cysts just described into which hsemorrhage has accidentally taken place. The true blood-cysts, however, are much more serious ; when punc- tured true blood escapes, sometimes almost arterial in tint, and even if the cyst be emptied it speedily fills again. They have been met with m close con- nexion with the great vessels of the neck. Their origin is not certainly known, but some have supposed them to originate from a cyst-bke dilatation of one of the large veins of the neck. In others no communication has been found with any large vessels, but the lining membrane was highly vascular. The Treatment consists in puncturing the cyst with a fine trochar and in- jecting iodine or perchloride of iron. If the cyst could be partially emptied bv pressure, showing communication with a large vein, this would evidently not be justifiable. Gay successfully dissected one out, which lay in close contact with the carotid sheath. 4. Dermoid Cysts are rare in the neck. That variety which is occa- sionally met with in the middle line pushing upwards beneath the tongue, will be considered later (p. 701). The other position in the neck in which these cysts occur is the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. They are then situated deeply beneath the cervical fascia, and probably owe their origin to distension of an unobliterated portion of one of the branchial clefts with the position of which they correspond (see Vol. I., p. 1014). A dermoid cyst apparently connected with the second branchial cleft, was recently removed by Godlee in University College Hospital. The patient, a woman aged twenty-six, had noticed a swelhng in the neck for ten months. The cyst lay behind the angle of the jaw on the right side of the neck, and was overlapped by the sterno-mastoid. During its removal the carotid vessels were freely exposed. The cyst contained milky fluid with abundant cholesteiine ; the cyst wall was lined with a stratified epithelium covering imperfect papilla ; no hairs or glands were present. The only Treatment for these cysts consists in removing them ; a pro- cedure which, as in the above case, may involve an extensive dissection. 5. The Bursal Cysts occur in the middle line about the hyoid bone and the front of the larynx. They have already been described with disease of bursas (p. 507). 6. True Hydatid Cysts sometimes form in the neck. A woman was under my care in the Hospital for a hydatid tumour of the liver, which I tapped ; seven years afterwards she presented herself with a thin-walled elastic semi-transparent cyst in the posterior triangle of the neck, about the size of an orange. This was found to contain clear serous fluid, with the remains of echinococci. In another case, that of a lad aged about 18, other- wise healthy, I removed a hydatid cyst as large as a shaddock from the neck, where it was deeply seated under the trapezius, growing apparently in the substance of the complexus or spleiiius capitis, and lying close upon the cervical spine and the occipital bone. Solid Tumours of the Neck.—Fatty tumours and the various forms of E K 2