4i6 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE I IIP. fore assume tlie position from disfcension of the capsule by efifasion from the synovial membrane cannot be doubted ; but in the great majority of cases of hip disease there is no reason to believe that any such distension takes place That the position is not merely mechanical is shown moreover by the fact that in the early stages of the disease it usually disappears under chloroform. It may, however, be assumed that the position taken by the limb when all the ligaments are tensely stretched by injecting the joint, is also that in which there would be the most perfect general relaxation if the fluid were let out; this position would therefore be assumed involuntarily by the patient when the capsule is inflamed. It has also been pointed out by Barker that in full extension "the leverage of the femur acting on the Y-ligament, and the tense anterior part of the capsule as a fulcrum," will force the head of the femur against the acetabulum, and for this reason the patient involuntarily keeps the thigh shghtly flexed. Hilton attributed the position of the limb to a reflex contraction of the muscles sur- rounding the joint, consequent upon the anatomical distribution of the nerves, it being a rule in all joints that they receive branches from the same nerves that supply the muscles acting directly upon them. According to this view the flexion, abduction, and rotation outwards are due to the stronsrer muscles prevailing over the weaker. It has been suggested also that the position may be due to the direct irritation of the flexors and external rotators which lie more immediately in contact with the capsule than the extensors and internal rotators. When the limb is abducted, if the patient be put in the erect position, the pelvis is tilted in such a way that the anterior superior iliac spine of the diseased side will be found to be somewhat lower than its fellow ; at the same timejthe sound limb is adducted to a degree corresponding to the abduction of the affected side, aud thus the two limbs are brought parallel to each other. The knee is flexed, partly on account of the lowering of the side of the pelvis and the flexion of the hip-joint, and partly because by putting the toes only to the ground, the elasticity of the foot is brought into play, and the pain prevented that would arise from the jar of the limb if the patient trod on the heel. The position assumed by the affected limb gives rise to an apparent elongation. Often in these cases of apparent lengthening there is actual shortening, but measurement from the anterior superior spinous process to the inner malleolus on each side shows the fallacy of this appearance. As the disease advances, the position of the limb undergoes a complete change ; the flexion remains and is increased, but at the same time the thigh becomes adducted and rotated inwards, so that the knee is carried against the lower part of the sound thigh. The cause of this position has been the Fig. 566.—Position assumed by the limb on forcibly distending the capsule of the right hip-joint witli fluid.