398 DISEASES OF THE WRIST-JOINT. too far, there is danger of wounding the radial artery. The soft parts aj-e then to be separated carefully from the bones on the radial side of the incision, the tendon of the extensor carpi rudialis longior being now cut as close to its insertion as possible. The tendon of the extensor longus pollicis and the radial artery are to be pushed outwards out of the way. The trapezium must then be separated from the rest of the carpus by cutting in the longitudinal part of the incision with the bone-forceps. The soft parts on the ulnar side of the radial incision are now to be dissected up as far as can conveniently be done, the remainder being raised from the ulnar incision. While this is being done, the tendons must be relaxed by extending the joint. The trapezium is not to be removed yet, as any attempt to dissect it out before removing the rest of the carpus would endanger the radial artery and the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis. The ulnar incision is next to be made. It must be a free Pig. 55S.—Diagram of Wrist. A. Deep Palmar Arch. B. Trapezium. C. Ai-ticuiar Surface of Ulua over wliicli Radius moves. (Lister.) Fig. 559.—A. Radial Arterj'. B. Tendon of Extensor Longus Pollicis. C. Extensor Indicis. D. Extensor Communis Digitorum. B. Ex- tensor Minimi Digiti. F. Extensor Brevis Pollicis. G. Extensor Ossis Metacarpi Pollici.s. H. Extensor Carpi Radialis Lougior. I. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior. K. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. L. L. Line of Radial Incision. (Lister. incision, commencing at least two inches above the end of the ulna and immediately to the palmar aspect of the bone, and being carried directly downwards between the flexor carpi ulnaris and the ulna, and then straight on as far as the middle of the palmar aspect of the fifth metacarpal bone. The tendons and soft parts on the dorsum of the carpus are now to be completely raised. In doing this the tendons must be relaxed, and they are to be raised as little as possible from the radius or metacarpus. The extensor carpi ulnaris is to be cut as near its insertion as possible, and the dorsal and internal lateral ligaments may now be divided. Then the soft parts are to be raised from the palmar aspect. The knife must be carried close to the ulna, so as not to wound the artery and nerve. The pisiform bone is to be separated and left attached to the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is not to be cut. The flexor tendons are to be raised from the metacarpal bones, but in doing this