INFLAMMATORY PROCESSES IN PERIOSTEUM. 255 DISEASES OF THE OEGANS OF SUPPORT AND MOTION. CHAPTEE XLYI. INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. GENERAXj pathology of INPIiAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF BONE. Before considering the diseases of bone as they present themselves in practice, it will be convenient to describe the different effects of inflammation on the separate structures of which a bone is composed, viz., the periosteum, the medulla and the osseous tissue. The necessity for this arises from the fact that inflammatory affections are rarely limited to one of these structures. Thus inflammation commencing in the periosteum, if it last for any length of time, always produces more or less marked changes in the compact tissue beneath, and the cancellous tissue is never affected without the periosteum sooner or later taking part in the morbid process. The process of inflammation in bone is essentially the same as in all other tissues—such modifications as exist being due solely, to the structure of the affected part. In the Chapter on Inflammation it was pointed out that in the more acute or destructive processes of inflammation the inflamed tissue becomes infiltrated with new cells, before which the original structures dis- appear. In the soft parts of a bone, the medulla and periosteum, this takes place exactly as in other tissues, but in compact bone the process is restricted and delayed by the density of the structure. The new tissue undergoes the same changes in bone as elsewhere : it may soften and break down into pus, it may suffer from fatty degeneration and caseation, or it may develop, the product being as a rule osseous, instead of fibrous tissue, as in the soft parts. The chronic inflammatory processes which in the soft parts lead to fibroid induration or overgrowth of the connective tissue^ when affecting a bone lead to the formation o^^ new osseous tissue, but the process is essentially the same. As m other parts the inflammation may end in death of the affected tissue Acute infective inflammations are also met with, and the chronic processes associated with the presence of tubercle are common. All these inflammations are identical in character with those already described as affecting the soft parts, such differences in detail as exist being due solely to the physical peculiarities of the tissue implicated. Inflammatory Processes in the Periosteum.—The periosteum is composed of two layers, the more superficial of which consists chiefly of white fibrous tissue ; the deeper contains a large proportion of yellow elastic tissue Forming part of the deep layer in immediate contact with the bone is a stratum which contains numerous cells. In growing bone these have the