DIAGNOSIS OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 907 chronic peritonitis or cancer. Of the 47 strictures, 2 were in the small gut and 45 in the large. To these 45 may be added 5S) collected by Morris and Coupland. Of these 104 strictures of the great intestine, 78 were in the rectum and sigmoid flexure, 11) in the transverse colon, and 7 in the c^cum. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of the cause of obstruction is of the greatest importance, for in certain forms there is no possibility of recovery except by surgical interference, and this must be adapted to the nature of the case. In the first place, it is necessary, if possible, to exclude certain conditions, which, though not generally included under the name of intestinal obstruction, give rise to symptoms of a similar nature. The most important of these are simple intestinal colic, typhlitis, perforation of the vermiform appendix, and acute general peritonitis, which simulate acute obstruction ; and lead colic, and chronic peritonitis which may resemble the chronic forms. In simple intestinal colic vomiting is not a prominent symptom, and is never stercoraceous. Constipation is rarely complete, flatus, if not faeces, passings and there is no coUapse. The symptoms of perforation of the vermiform appendix will be given in the next Chapter. Acute General Peritonitis is characterized by the marked tenderness of the abdomen, with rigidity of its walls. The vomiting is not so profuse, rarely stercoraceous, and occurs without straining or retching. The ejecta are usually dark-coloured. The constipation in peritonitis is very frequently in- complete, flatus, if not f«ces, passing. In intestinal obstruction the tempera- ture is usually subnormal; in peritonitis it is commonly elevated. The diagnosis is, however, confused by the fact that general peritonitis may occur as a complication of some forms of acute obstruction. Lead Colic is usually easily recognized by the history of the case, the retraction of the belly, the absence of vomiting, and the blue line on the gums. The following case shows, however, that the symptoms may be very misleading. A man, aged thirty-eight, was admitted to the hospital for supposed intestinal obstruction. For six months he had suffered from in- creasing constipation and straining at stool. A fortnight before admission he first experienced severe pain in the lower part of the abdomen, extending to the right testicle. The abdomen was uniformly tender, but not distended. There was frequent bilious vomiting. The tongue was moist ; temperature 100'(i° ; urine normal. The paroxysmal and colicky character of the pain led to an examination of the gums and the detection of a slight blue line. The pain subsided entirely after a hypodermic injection of morphine, and the bowels acted spontaneously on the third day. Chronic Peritonitis is sometimes included as one of the causes of in- testinal obstruction, and it no doubt does occasionally prove fatal in this way. When this happens the obstruction is due to matting together of the coils of intestine, or possibly to the formation of bands, and is rather an accident in the disease than an essential part of it. Chronic peritonitis is most commonly tuberculous, but it also arises in connexion with malignant growths, and some- times without evident cause. In the tuberculous form there may bo ascites ; more commonly there is some fulness, with irregular hardness, or a doughy feel in the abdomen. There is shght elevation of temperature in most cases. Vomiting is often altogether absent, and is never stercoraceous. Diarrhoea is more common than obstruction, but cases do occur in which constipation is the most prominent symptom. I saw a case some years ago which terminated