723 THE LARYNGOSCOPE. veai-, in 1 the record was incomplete, and 7 were living at the time of the reoort In a case of this kind operated on by Trendelenburg, the patient was alive and well many years after the operation. He took food by masticating it thoroughly and then blowing it from his mouth into the stomach through a tube fitted to the cannula. In many cases a good deal of trouble has been occasioned after the operation by the escape of gastric juice from the fistula. This causes great irritation of the surrounding skin, apparently by a process of digestion. ]t is best avoided by not making a larger opening than is absolutely necessary. In the vertical incision adopted by Howse the sphincter-like action of the fibres of the rectus tends in great measure to prevent this complication. Should the skin become sore it may be relieved by being washed with an alkaline solution and protected by vaseline. In a few cases oesophagostomy, or making a fistulous opening in the gullet below the obstruction, has been practised instead of gastrostomy. The operation is performed in the same way as for removal of a foreign body (Vol. I., p. 845), a tube being inserted through which food can be adminis- tered. Gross has collected 21 cases of malignant stricture treated in this way. Only four recovered from the operation, and all these died within six months. Of five cases of simple stricture treated by this method none recovered. It is evident, therefore, that this operation is not preferable to gastrostomy. (Esophagectomy, or excision of the cancerous portion of the oesophagus, can be practised only in the early stages of the growth, before it has formed any adhesions to important parts, and only when the disease is seated at the upper extremity of the oesophagus. It was suggested by Billroth, and first successfully performed by Czerny in 1877. Since then the operation has been performed in five other cases. Of the six, three died directly from the opera- tion, and of the survivors all died within a year, of recurrence. In the later stages of malignant stricture of the upper part of the oesophagus, tracheotomy occasionally becomes necessary, from implication of the glottis or larynx. DISEASES OF THE LABYNX. The larynx may be the seat of a great variety of morbid conditions. Acute inflammation, oedema, and follicular inflammation ; ulcerations and chronic thickenings of the mucous membrane ; inflammation and necrosis of its car- tilages ; and the formation of tumours or polypoid growths in its interior, may all occur. Laryngoscope.—It is of the utmost importance in the diagnosis, and for tne proper treatment of these affections, that a view should be obtained of the .parts that are the seat of disease. This can be done only by means of the Laryngoscope. The introduction of this instrument into practice and its perfection have been a work of time. It appears to have been invented and first used in 1829, by Babington, who, under the term " Glottiscope," described an instrument consisting of a small mirror fixed to a wire shank, which, being placed against the palate whilst the tongue was held down, enabled him to view the glottis and upper part of the larynx ; more especially when he illuminated these parts by throwing reflected light upon them from a mirror held in his left hand. Listen, Trousseau, and Avery all made attempts in the