TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF TARSUS AND METATARSUS. 459 c— sacs—which have no communication with one another. These are well repre- sented in the annexed diagram (Fig. 592). The posterior calcaneo-asiragalar \^ the first of them ; next comes the {a) anterior calcaneo-asiragaJar, the synovial membrane here serving also for the asiraffalo-scaphoid; the calcan.eo-cuboid{h) is the third ; and the anterior tarsal synovial membrane (c) is the fourth and largest of all, and the most important from a surgical point of view. It extends between the scaphoid and the three cuneiform and the cuboid bones, between the cuneiform bones themselves, between the two outer cuneiforms and the bases of the second and third metatarsal bones, and also between the external cuneiform and the cuboid. The articulation between the cuboid and the two outer metatarsal bones is shown at d; and e is that between the internal cuneiform and the first metatarsal bone. These two {d and e) are not, strictly speaking, tarsal joints. In the vast majority of cases, so far as my experience goes, it is the osseous structures, and not the articulations, which are primarily diseased ; but tuberculous disease, once set up in bones, speedily implicates the articulations secondarily. Now it will easily be understood, on consider- ing the arrangement of the tarsal synovial membranes, that the extent of disease will, in a great measure, depend upon its original seat. Thus, a person may have disease in the os calcis, extending even to the cuboid, with very little likelihood of its proceeding farther for a length of time. Such disease is limited to the outer part of the foot, does not involve its integrity, and can readily be removed by operation. If, however, the disease be in the scaphoid, or in one of the cuneiform bones, or in the bases of the second or third metatarsal bones, it will rapidly spread through the whole of the anterior and inner part of the tarsus. When the foot is affected by tuberculous disease it becomes painful, the patient being unable to bear upon the toes or anterior ball of the foot. Swelling of a uniform character takes place, with tenderness at some point opposite the bones or articulations that are chiefly involved ; and eventually abscesses form, leaving sinuses through which the probe passes down upon softened and carious bone. These evidences of disease are usually most marked about the dorsum and sides, where the bones are superficial, the sole being often comparatively free—an important point in reference to operation. The bones that are most frequently the seat of primary disease are the calcaneum, the astragalus, the scaphoid, the cuboid, and the metatarsal bone of the great toe. In considering the Treatment of diseases of the bones and joints of the foot it is necessary in the first place to observe certain points in connexion with the construction of the part. In looking at the division of the foot into its three (; 592.—Diagram of Synovial Mem- branes of tlie Foot.