500 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. before suppuration has taken place. When there is much pain it must h. applied on each side of the spine at the back of the neck. As great and immediate danger may result from the sadden displacement of the vertebni' and consequent compression of the cervical cord, the head requires to h< steadied by proper apparatus, calculated to suppoit and steady its movement-. Sayre's jacket with the " jury mast " (Fig. Gil) is he most efficient apparatus \ for disease below the first two vertebrae. A leather splint embracing i]v shoulders and the upper part of the cliest and back fitted with a broad collar for the neck and a support for the chin and occiput will be found to suit ' many cases. In disease of the atlas and axis, the head must be fixed absolutely so that no movement is possible. The patient should be confined to bed in th' recumbent position, with a heavy sand-bag on each side of the head and a small pillow beneath the neck. Gentle weight extension by means of a collar holding on the chin and occiput attached to a cord passing through a pulley at the head of the bed is often useful in reheving pain. "When the acut' symptoms subside, an apparatus, such as is represented in Fig. 315, Vol. 1.. may be applied. Retro-pharyngeal abscess is a serious complication, for when it bursts inin the pharynx it empties itself imperfectly, and decomposition of the discharge- ensues, thus perpetuating the disease. To avoid this, J. Chiene of Edinburgh recommends that it should be opened early, when possible, by an incision made behind the sterno-mastoid. The carotid vessels and pneumogastric nerve must be pushed forwards without injuring the sheath of fascia in which they are enclosed. The abscess can thus be treated antiseptically. In this way Chiene successfully treated a large abscess containing eight ounces of pus. OTHEB DISEASES OF THE SPINE. Gummata of the Spine.—Cases of partial destruction of the bodies of the vertebrae by the formation of syphilitic gummata commencing beneath the periosteum have been recorded. The disease closely resembles ordinary ': cai'ies of the spine in its symptoms, and the diagnosis can be made only by the history, and the co-existence of other syphilitic affections. The treatment is mechanical support in addition to the ordinary internal remedies. Rheumatoid Arthritis may affect the spine. The intervertebral discs j atrophy and bony outgrowths form from the bodies which may bridge_ over the spaces between them. The natural movements are thus restricted. Beyond this it causes no very definite symptoms, and it requires no special treatment. Tumours of the Spine.—The bodies of the vertebrae are not uncommonly the seat of secondary carcinomatous growths. Primary sarcomata also are occasionally met with. The symptoms are pain, usually very severe, localized at one spot in the spine, followed after a time by some excurvation. The tumour projects sooner or later, if the patient survives sufficiently long, into the spinal canal and compresses the cord, causing paraplegia. Except in cases in which the tumour is secondary the diagnosis from dry caries is scarcely possible. Early supervention of paraplegia, with slight excurvation, in a patient past middle life, would, however, suggest the presence of a tumour. Davies-Colley has recorded a case in which a fibro-sarcoma, growing from the lamina of the fifth and sixth dorsal vertebra, had, by its pressure on the