432 DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. difficult to decide between the two methods ; and when, lastly, we compare the utility of the limb obtained by expectant treatment with that after excision, we still find considerable difference of opinion as to the relative merits of the two methods. As far as the ultimate shortening of the bone is concerned, it matters little whether the head is slowly removed by caries or at once by excision, and it is also certain that removal of the head often produces not more than half an inch of shortening;, and probably has little effect on the subsequent growth in length of the bone. The more rapid the cure the less will be the faulty development of the limb resulting from disuse. A movable joint is more often obtained after excision than after expectant methods, but in some cases the joint is weak, and has a tendency to become flexed, so that it is doubtful whether, as far as practical utility is concerned, the more fixed joint is not eventually the more serviceable to the patient. The evidence on the whole is, indeed, by no means convincing, and although the balance may perhaps turn in favour of avoiding excision in the eai-lier stages of suppuration, unless there are strong indications for performing it, the operation should certainly not be regarded merely as a last resource in advanced cases. It is only by the careful observation of series of consecutive cases that a final decision upon this important question can be made. It is however, possible to indicate certain conditions in which the Sm-geon should not hesitate to undertake the operation. In the first place if the head of the bone is extensively destroyed by caries, if a sequestrum is present m its surface or if there is considerable disease outside the epiphysial line, the joint itself being involved, excision through the neck should be performed. Secondly, in the rare instances in which the head of the femur is completely separated, and lies as a loose sequestrum in the cavity of the acetabulum, the sooner the dead bone is removed the better. This condition is not easy to recognize until the abscess is freely opened and digital examination made. Thirdly, in cases of primary acetabular disease, especially when sequestra are