STONE IN THE BLADDER. 1031 liquor pofcasste, put a glass slip cover over it and then run in beneath a drop of acetic or hydrochloric acid ; as the acid meets the alkaline fluid a white cloud will appear; examine this under the microscope and it will be found to be composed of diamond-shaped crystals of uric acid. As a confirmatory test for oxalate of lime, the white residue left after heating on the platinum foil may be placed on a glass slide and a drop of acid added, when it will be seen to dissolve with effervescence, oxalic acid having been broken up by the heat, and carbonate of lime remaining, STONE IN THE BLADDER. Structure of Calculi.—Calculi, though sometimes composed throughout of the same deposit, are frequently made up of layers or strata, differing in chemical composition from one another, and these usually go by the name of alteriialing calculi (Fig. 842). Most frequently the nucleus consists of uric acid ; next in order of frequency comes the oxalate of lime ; and then the concretion of a phosphatic character throughout. It is very/seldom Alternating Calculus. Phosphates. that the nucleus is absent; but concretions have occasionally been met with in which none could be detected, or in which it was even replaced by a cavity. The nucleus is usually as nearly as possible in the centre of the calculus, and is generally nearly regular in shape ; occasionally, however, it is branched or curiously radiated ; and then the concretion generally affects a corresponding outline. Calculi containing two or three nuclei have sometimes been found, consisting probably of an equal number of concretions agglomerated together. A foreign body occasionally takes the place of a nucleus. The body of a calculus having the uric acid nucleus is generally composed of the same substance possibly mixed with some urates ; but not unfrequently these are encrusted with deposit of phosphates. In other instances the body may be wholly composed of some of the earthy phosphates, which more rarely alternate with the oxalate of lime or the triple phosphates. An oxalate of lime nucleus usually has a body of the same constitution; but in some cases it is encrusted with phosphates or urates (Fig. 843). When the interior is phosphatic, the concretion is always of the same constitution. The alterations in the composition of a calculus are due to varying con- ditions of the general health, and consequently of the character and con- stituents of the urine, and of the state of the lining membrane of the bladder. The uric acid and oxalate of lime nuclei and layers are undoubtedly due to