6i4 DISEASES OF THE TIIYROIU ULAND. melted snow is its occasioning cause in Switzerland, ikt these ideas are groundless. Hard water is drunk largely in this country in districts wiiere no bronchocele occurs, and snow-water is never used in Switzerland, spring-water of the purest kind only being drunk. It would appear that air and locality have much more to do with the occurrence of bronchocele than water, in mountainous countries the disease occurs almost entirely amongst the inhabitants of valleys, where the air is moist and stagnant ; the inhabitants, especially, of valleys that run north and south, into which the sun does not penetrate readily, or for many hours in the dny, which are always in the shady of neighbouring and overhanging mountains, are especially prone to it. ^'his is well known to be the case m Switzerland, where the disease is endemic. So also in large towns, it occurs chiefly amongst the poor who live in cellars and kitchens, or in damp, ill-ventilated streets and courts. When it is met with in the richer classes, it is found mainly amongst children and young people shut up in school-rooms or condemned to a sedentary and indoor life. It is rarely, if ever, met with amongst those who lead open-air and active lives. Bad food and low living no doubt conduce to it. The tendency is probably hereditaiy in some cases ; when associated with idiocy, constituting that wretched condition " creiinism," it undoubtedly is so. Every race of men is liable tu bronchocele, and it occurs in all latitudes, from the Arctic region to the tropics. Thus Franklin found bronchocele amongst the inhabitants of the polar regions, and Mungo Park amongst those of the interior of Africa. In this country it is most common in Derbyshire, and has consequently received the name of '^Derbyshire neck'' It is most frequent amongst women. Symptoms and Varieties.—Simple Hypertrophy or Parenchymatous Goitre.—In this form the thyroid gland is simply increased in size without any marked change in structure. It may attain a considerable bulk, forming a smooth rounded tumour, maintaining more or less accurately the form of the normal gland, though frequently the enlargement on one side is greater than on the other. It is soft and elastic to the feel, and moves up and down with the trachea during deglutition. In the majority of instances in England, the tumour is of but very moderate size, commencing at first as a mere fulness and uniform rounded enlargement of the isthmus, until perhaps by the pressure of the growth confined between the steruo-mastoid muscle and under the deep fascia of the neck, the voice becomes croaking and harsh, and respiration is seriously aflFected, especially on exertion, and occasionally there may be some interference with deglutition. It is seldom that the bronchocele distorts the structures of the neck to one side ; but this may happen. Thus I have seen the larynx and trachea pushed completely over to the left, forming a long convexity in that direction, w^hilst the carotid sheath on the right side was thrust behind the sterno-mastoid muscle. When the tumour reaches any considerable size it presses on the veins of the neck and thus causes interference with the cerebral circulation ; the face becomes turgid, the superficial veins are distended- and the patient may sufler fi-om headache, vertigo, or drowsiness. There is a remarkable connexion between tumours of the thyroid gland of this kind, and a general angemic condition of the system. In London nothmg is more common than to find a certain degree of bronchocele in pale and bloodless women and girls ; indeed, so frequent is the coincidence that it is impossible not to regard it in the light of cause and eflFect.