526 DEFORMITJKS OF THE NECK AND LIMBS. losing its power and the eye being rotated inwards by the action of its antagonist, the internal rectus. Disease of the central nervous system, more especially of the spinal cord, ig i a frequent cause of deformity, which is very common in infancy and early I chilclhold, as a consequence of Infantile Paralysis. This disease is due to \ inflammation of the anterior grey cornua of the cord. At first there is I extensive paralysis, which gradually clears up as the acute stage passes off, I often leaving merely a single group of muscles permanently powerless, as 1 for instance, the tibialis anticus, and the extensors of the toes. As the result of this the foot becomes extended by the unopposed muscles of the calf, and one form of acquired club-foot is produced. Little made the important observation that many cases of deformity in infants appear to be due to mischief inflicted on the base of the brain during protracted and instrumental [ labours. Another example of deformity from disease of the central nervous system is the club-foot, and occasionally club-hand also, met with in cases of encepbalo- cele or spina bifida. (c.) Spasm of a muscle or group of muscles also may give rise to deformity, the opponent muscles remaining perfect in their contractility, but being over- balanced by the continued contraction of their antagonists. Spasm may be the result of direct irritation of the central nervous system. ' This would appear to be the case in some forms of squint. It may also be reflex, resulting from some peripheral irritation. This we commonly see ' happen in cases of contraction occurring from the cutting of teeth, the irritation of worms in the intestinal canal, in the so-called hysterical contrac- tions from uterine irritation, &c. From all these various causes, contraction and consequent deformity may arise. In some cases deformity will cease after i removal of the cause ; but in other instances, in which it has been of long ? duration, the deformity will continue, owing to the muscles having fallen into a kind of rigid atrophy, being shortened and wasted. 4. When deformity has arisen in the lower extremity as a consequence of any of the above conditions, it becomes greatly aggravated by the iveight of i the body acting on the deformed limb. This we see specially marked in old | club-feet. ^ Treatment.—The General Treatment of deformity consists in removing k the cause of the contraction in those cases in which it is dependent on central | or peripheral disease or irritation that admits of remedy. Thus, if squinting arise from pressure upon the brain, the eye will resume its straight direction • when the congested vessels are relieved, or the efl'used fluid absorbed ; or if a contraction of the hamstring muscles arises from the irritation of worms in the intestinal canal, a purgative dose may cure the affection. Electricity is perhaps the most valuable agent we possess for the treatment of those deformities that arise from paralysis of one set of muscles allowing those that retain their healthy contractility to draw the parts over to their side. Thus, for instance, if the muscles supplied by the external popliteal j nerve, the tibialis anticus, the extensors of the toes, and the peronei—are \ paralysed, so that the muscles of the calf, the tibialis posticus, and the flexors of the toes draw the foot into the position of Talipes Equinus and Varus, the electricity must be applied to the former group of muscles. The continuous current will be found the most eflicient, faradization being of but little use if