LIGATURE OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. 233 TABLE OF CASES OP LIGATUKE OF ABDOMINAL AORTA FOU ANEURISM. i 1 'cfTumrnv A 0 E. ! DATE 1 1 NATURE BKSULTS. , OF ANKURISM. jl. AyTLEyCOOPER M. 38 1 1817 Diffused Inguinal Incision Death in 40 hours. • j 1 through Peritoneum. 12. James, M. i 1829 External Iliac. Distal liga- ture nrst : Peritoneum Death in a few hours. 3. MUEBAY. I 1 opened. M. 1834 Inguinal. Aorta tied behind Peritoneum. Death in 24 hours. 4. MOXTEIKO. M. 1842 Diffused Inguinal Aorta tied Death on 10th day. behind Peritoneum. i). ftOUTH. M. 18oh Common Iliac. Aorta tied behind Peritoneum. Death in 43 hours. d. MCGUIRE. M. 30 1868 Lower part of Aorta, both Common Iliacs, and Left Ex- ternal Iliac. Aorta tied behind Peritoneum. Death in 12 hours. 7. W. Stokes. M. 50 ' i 1 186!) i Iliac. i Aorta tied behind Peritoneum. Death in 13 hours. ^ In Astley Cooper's case, the inguinal aneurism had burst, and the aorta was tied about three-quarters of an inch above its bifurcation, by making an incision three inches in length through the abdomen, a little to the left of the umbilicus, the fingers being passed between the coils of the intestines, and the peritoneum covering the artery being scratched through. The patient survived forty hours. James hgatured the aorta much in the same way as Cooper, in a case in which he had previously employed the distal operation for an inguinal aneurism ; but without success, the patient speedily dying. Murray hgatured the vessel by making an incision on the left side, in front of the projecting end of the tenth rib, and carrying it downwards for six inches to the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The parts were then carefuUy divided to the peritoneum, which was separated from the iliac fossa and the psoas muscle, when, with great difficulty, and by scratching with the end of an elevator and the finger-nails, room was made for the passage of the ligature round the artery, which was tied three or four Hnes above its bifurcation. The patient died in twenty-three hours. The most interesting case on record is that by Monteiro, who tied the aorta for a large false aneurism on the lower and right side of the abdomen ; here the incision was made much as in Murray's case and the artery ligatured with great difficulty. The patient lived till the tenth day when he died of secondary htemorrhage. In South's case, the aorta was tied behind the peritoneum by an incision on .the left side of the abdomen ihe patient died in forty-three hours. McGuire's patient had an aneurismal tumour of the size of a goose's egg in the left iliac region. Digital pressure near the umbilicus was attempted, but could not be done. The operator's intention was at first to tie the left common iliac artery ; but, findino- the disease more extensive than he expected, he enlarged the incision and tied the