1023 EESULTS OF NEPHRECTOMY. ,ts contents pass into the abdominal cavity. The divided ends must imme- aiately be disinfected with chloride of zinc (40 gr. to 3]). Thornton recom- mends that the cut end of the ureter be at once drawn outside the abdomen, and subsequently fixed into the wound. , • 111 bleeding- points having been ligatured a large sponge is placed in the •avity whilst the sutures are introduced in the abdominal incision. Thornton linds that di-ainage is unnecessary if the wound is dry, and has not been fouled by the contents of the kidney. Otherwise a tube should be inserted, and in some cases it may be advisable to introduce a second tube through an aperture iu the loin, as recommended by Barwell. The chief advantages of Langenbuch's incision over one in the middle line are that it exposes the pedicle more directly, that it enables the intestines to be readily held on one side during the operation, and that, as the kidney is reached through the outer layer of the meso-colon, there is less hemorrhage and less interference with the vascular supply of the colon than when the inner layer is divided. In the after-treatment of nephrectomy the patient must be covered up as warmly as possible to promote the action of the skin. Vomiting is almost always a troublesome symptom ; it must be relieved by ice. Thornton finds that oxalate of cerium in fifteen-grain doses frequently repeated is sometimes useful. Opium must be avoided, as the opposite kidney often becomes con- gested and somewhat disturbed in its functions for a few days. By most Surgeons the lumbar method is preferred whenever practicable, the abdominal operation being reserved for the removal of large tumours. In a large proportion of cases nephrectomy is performed for the relief of a fistula resulting from nephrotomy and drainage, and under these circumstances only the lumbar operation is available. The increased risk which results from opening the peritoneum must as a general rale be considered to outweigh the advantages derived from an examination of the opposite kidney. The Results of Nephrectomy were at first very discouraging, for out of the.first 12 cases in which the operation was done but 2 recovered. But in- creased experience in the operation, a more just appreciation of its difficulties, and, above all, the great advances in abdominal surgery generally, have during recent years turned the balance in favour of the operation, so that the I'ecoveries now largely exceed the deaths. Newman has collected 324 cases, of which 201 recovered and 123 died, or ;)5"2 per cent. The lumbar incision was adopted in 177 cases, with 54 deaths, or 30*5 per cent. ; while of 138 operated on by the abdominal incision 66 died, or 47*8 per cent. The influence which the nature of the disease for which the operation was performed has upon the mortality is shown by the following details. The operation was performed for movable kidney in 30 cases with a mortahtyof 30'0 per cent. ; for hydronephrosis in 30 cases—40 per cent. ; for cystic disease in 16 cases— 7'5 per cent. ; for suppurative disease without cal- culus in 54 cases—33*3 per cent. ; for suppurative disease with calculus in 1)1 cases—36 per cent. ; for tuberculous disease in 33 cases—36'6 per cent. ; for traumatic lesions in 27 cases—33 per cent. ; for benign tumours in 12 cases—25 per cent. ; for carcinoma in 25 cases—56 per cent. ; for sarcoma in 36 cases—53*0 per cent. Of the total deaths almost exactly a third were due to shock or collapse, the mortality from this cause after the abdominal operation being 14'5 per cent., and after the lumbar, 12 per cent. The next