762 SURGICAL OJ^ERATIONS ON THE CHEST. to Laennec's time, the physician could not diagnose a pulmonary cavitv trom a circumscribed empyema communicating with the lung. Hence the accounts ot such an operation given by the older writers on medicine from the days ot Hippocrates down to the present century must be received with Bcopti cisin. But that the idea of treating pulmonary cavities by incision or taiminLr had suggested itself at an early period to medical practitioners, there can bent doubt; tor, without going back to tlie earlier medical writers, we find Barry in 1/20 recommending that phthisical cavities should be opened, with the view of giving a direct exit to the contained matters, thus, by avoiding violent paroxysms of cough, making it possible for the parts to be kept at rest, so as to be more likely to undergo a cure. The proposal received little attention and the practice died out, until, in 183G, it was revived by an empiric of the name of liamadge, who appears to have tapped the chest on several occasions in order to let out j3us from cavities in the lungs. In 1845, Storks performed this operation with success, in a case under the care of Hastings. He operated by making along incision upon the upper border of a rib, and then opening up the cavity by means of a pair of forceps, and inserting a cannula to allow of the escape of the contents. This case attracted little attention at the time, and the operation again died out, until it was revived by Hosier of Greifswald, who not only tapped, but injected the cavities with disinfectant solutions. Pepper of Philadelphia, who has published an exhaustive article on this subject, adopts a ditferent procedure. He taps the vomica with a small cannula and trochar fitted to a syringe, and injects the cavity with diluted tincture of iodine. Shingleton Smith instead of iodine has used a solution of one grain of iodoform in five minims of ether injected by means of a Pravaz's syringe. Although in some cases the foetor of the expectoration was diminished but little curative result was obtained. During the last few years cavities of the lung of various kinds have been opened by Marshall, Godlee, G ould, and others, but the limits of the operation and the best cases for its performance have yet to be determined. The state of opinion at the present time is thus summed up by Godlee : 1. Gangrenous cavities should always be sought, and if possible, opened, and the prognosis, if the operation be successful, is not bad. 2. The same may be said in regard 10 abscesses caused by rupture of purulent collections from other parts into the lung, at least as regards the pulmonary complication. 3. Abscesses con- nected with foreign bodies must be opened, and, if the body be not found, it must be remembered that if of any size, it probably lies in one of the larger bronchial tubes not more than three inches from the middle line. 4. Bronchi- ectasic cavities when single (a very rare condition) will be cured by operation. When multiple (a very common condition), they offer but small chance of relief. 5. Tuberculous cavities should be opened only when the cough is harassing and the cavity single. Injections may be used to relieve symptoms, but cannot be expected to cure. The operation is more safely done by carefully incising the lung than by the use of a trochar and cannula. Chloroform should be administered with great care, and the presence of pus ascertained by thrusting an aspirator needle through the intercostal space over the position of the supposed abscess. A portion of one or two ribs should be excised in the way already described (p. 701), and the parietal layer of the pleura fully exposed. If there is reason to believe that the two layers of the pleura are adherent, the lung may be at