TREATMENT OF DIFFUSED POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 249 Such a case as this can scarcely be considered, strictly speaking, a diffused aneurism; but yet, if by circumscribed we mean that tlie blood is contained in a cyst with defined walls, it scarcely agrees with such a definition, the fluid blood being rather prevented from escaping widely by a temporary bamer of coagula entangled in the loose areolar tissue of the part, and the vessel being extensively ruptured or completely torn across. Here we are certainly justified in having recourse to compression or ligature, with a good prospect of success. 3. When the ham is occupied by a large rapidly increasing tumour, extend- ing perhaps some way down the calf and up the thigh, and encroaching on the knee, the skin covering it being more or less discoloured, there being no pul- sation perceptible in the tibial arteries, and the veins of the limb being full and even somewhat congested, the foot oedematous and several degrees cooler than the opposite hmb, the difficulty of coming to a decisiou is considerable. In such a case as this, I think that the existence or absence of distensile pulsation is a circumstance of very great importance, and may serve to guide the Surgeon. If there be distinct impulse of a distending character, which can be arrested by compression of the femoral artery, with some diminution of the size of the tumour, it is evident that blood is being transmitted through the sac, and that this contains some fluid blood. In these circumstances it ' will, when the artery is tied, subside to a considerable extent, thus allowing more space for the conveyance of the collateral circulation ; and it would be but right to give the patient the chance by ligaturing the vessel. If, however, the tumour have, from the very first time when it attracted the patient's notice, been more or less solid and incompressible ; and, though it may at an early period have pulsated, if this pulsation have suddenly ceased, the aneurism at the same time having undergone rapid and great increase of bulk with much tension and lividity of the integuments, oedema and coldness of the limb, with a tendency perhaps to vesication and sloughing of the skin covering the tumour, an attempt may be made to perform the old operation, everything being prepared for immediate amputation in case of failure. It must, however, be borne in mind that the aneurism may become diffused, and extensively so, without any very great change in the shape and size of the limb. It is only when the sac ruptures in such a position that the blood escapes into the general areolar tissue of the limb or under the skin, that much tension of the integuments and increase in the bulk of the part take place. 4. When a rupture occurs in a part of the sac that is more deeply seated, the blood is extravasated underneath the deep fascia of the leg, and is bound down by this ; and disorganization of the interior of the limb may be the result, without much change in its bulk or in the colour of the integuments', but with excessive deeply seated pain. There must always be considerable risk, m such a case as this, of confounding the arterial disease with a solid tumour ; and the diagnosis can be made only by reference to the early history of the case, and more particularly to the existence or absence of pulsation at this period. Indeed, the existence or absence of pulsation in these cases is of the utmost importance in reference to the question of treat- ment, ihe pulsation may have ceased in a case of diffused pophteal aneurism m congequence of the blood that has been extravasated being so confined