1 1288 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE (GENERATIVE OliCANS. risks fittendant upon the ])roceclure-8uch as wound of a vefisel in f^i ubdonunal w.il, in the subjacent on.enturn, or in the cTst-wIll tsd pu:^tur ot adhei-ent intestine or urinary bladder ; escape of irrigating ovarian fkid in ^ he peritoneal cavity &c.- tapping entails also certain remote dange wSi nder . s adoption of very questionable advantage to the patient, even whet n.l rtaken as a means of temporary relief. Foremost among these may S men loned adhesive peritonitis, inflammation of the cyst-waJl, suppuiJion futnrJ ;;"tent8-conditions which must very seriously complicate any futute attempt to extirpate the tumour. Even though none of these untoward events should result, yet the operation, unless performed with the I strictest antiseptic precautions, is always liable to induce septic contami-' nation o the cyst-fluids, a state of things which, although not necessarily ^ leading to any obvious trouble at the time, will surely tend to diminish the patients chance of recovery from a subsequent ovariotomy by exposing her to the risk of septicaBmia. Finally, the puncture in the cyst-wall may from some cause or other remain unsealed, tlius allowing free escape of ovarian fluid into the peritoneal cavity with all its attendant dangers, among which not the least is that of malignant infection of the peritoneum from a pro- trudmg papillomatous growth. The above enumeration of the dangers incurred through tapping ovarian cysts IS m accordance with the experience of those Surgeons who have had the fullest opportunities of judging of the results of this operation ; and It IS not too much to say that the procedure is one to which recourse should be had only when it is rendered justifiable by exceptional circum- stances. As a means of relieving urgent dyspnoea, tapping is clearly applicable only to unilocular cysts, or to those multilocular tumours in which one cyst cavity largely predominates in size over its neighbours. When imperatively called for with this view, the operation should invariably be performed with antiseptic precautions, in order to obviate the risks of septic infection of the cyst-contents. The puncture may be made through the liuea alba, as in the case of ordinary ascites ; but not unfrequently the tumour presents more distinctly at some other part of the abdominal wall, and the point selected may be varied accordingly, care being taken always to choose a spot free from intestinal resonance, and sufficiently remote from the pubes to avoid any pos- sibility of puncturing the bladder which may be drawn up in front of the tumour. Incision and Drainage is a method of treatment occasionally applicable with advantage in exceptional cases of universally adherent suppurating cysts, when attempted extirpation of the tumour would entail extreme risk to life, owing to the probability of rupture of the cyst-wall during its removal—an accident most likely to prove fatal, as involving the escape of irritating septic matter into the peritoneal cavity. The operation in such instances involves a short incision in the usual situation, of sufficient extent to enable the Surgeon to judge of the closeness of the parietal adhesions, and by puncture of the cyst to determine the putrid nature of its contents. After thorough evacuation and sponging-out of the cyst cavity a drainage-tube should be inserted, and the incision closed around it by means of sutures connecting the cyst with the margins of the opening in the abdominal wall. The subsequent management of the case involves frequent withdrawal of fluid from the tube by means of a