378 DISEASES OF THE CLAVICLE. CHAPTER XLIX. DISEASES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. In the preceding chapters we have considered the most important diseases to which the bones and joints are Hable, together with the principles involved and the methods employed in their treatment. It remains to indicate the special features exhibited by these various diseases as they alfect the more important individual bones and joints of the extremities, and to describe the operative procedures required for their treatment. In the consideration of the excisions which are often required in the upper limb, it must be remembered that the whole extremity is subservient to the hand. By the excision of any one articulation the limb may be shortened, and it may be weakened ; and yet, if sufficient length and strength be left to enable the individual to use his hand, an immense gain will result. Hence, provided the Surgeon can save the hand, he need not hesitate to sacrifice other portions of the limb • and the shoulder, elbow, or wrist, may be removed, and the patient left in the possession of a most useful member—shortened, it is true, and to a certain extent curtailed in its movements, but possessing all the delicate motions of the hand in full perfection. DISEASES OF THE CLAVICLE. Syphihtic periostitis of the clavicle is not uncommon, and may result in the formation of a considerable fusiform node on the bone. Necrosis may follow the breaking down of a subperiosteal gumma. Tuberculous disease may occur as a subperiosteal deposit, or more rarely centrally. Tuberculous caries of the inner end of the clavicle may be associated with destruction of the sterno-clavicular joint, for which in a few cases excision has been practised. In the majority of cases caries of the clavicle can be efficiently treated by scraping, but in rare instances partial, or even complete, resection of the bone has been found necessary. Sarcoma of the clavicle is rare. The disease is more often subperiosteal than central, and in the former case is very malignant. It most commonly affects the sternal extremity. The treatment consists in the partial or complete removal of the bone. Excision of the Clavicle.—In caries or necrosis of this bone, portions of it may be gouged away or extracted without much difficulty, the bone being rarely affected through its whole thickness, and its posterior part not requiring removal ; but when, in consequence of the growth of tumours, the removal of the whole or greater part of the bone is necessary, the operation is one of the most hazardous in surgery, as a glance at the anatomy of the parts lying beneath the bone, and encroached upon by the morbid growth, will indicate. It is obviously impossible to lay down definite rules for the performance of an