INCONTINENCE OF URINE, 1125 instrument will not pass. This should be passed whilst the patient is stand- Sfup vi b every possible care and gentleness. The instrument should be ruK'trd with an a'ntiseptic oil. After and before use the J be washed in cold carbolized water, so that all chance may be avo ded of septic material being carried into the bladder, and thus "^^^g^^^^^^ tion of the urine. At first it may be quite sufficient if the residual urme is drawn off every third or second day. After a time this will be required once or twice daily. Until the patient becomes accustomed to the use ot tne catheter all unnecessary exertion, fatigue, and, above all, chills should be most carefully avoided. When once the habit has been established, these precautions may be x^l^xedi, provided there is no evidence of renal disease, and the urine continues clear and healthy. The catheter must not be retained, lest it occasion subacute cystitis, it, as often happens in senile atony, the prostate is somewhat enlarged care must be taken that the catheter really enters the bladder, and that the dilated prostatic urethra be not alone emptied. The weight of the residual urine causes the fundus of the bladder to pouch behind the prostate. This pouch must be thoroughly emptied by slowly withdrawing the catheter when the body of the bladder has been drained. Should subacute cystitis come on, with decomposition of urine, during the treatment, the bladder must be washed out after being emptied, with antiseptic lotions of the permanganate of potash, quinine, or iodoform. When once a bladder has become atonic in advanced age, it never com- pletely recovers its contractility, but the regular use of the catheter may do much to restore the normal contractility, in some degree at least. When once fairly established, " catheter life " may continue for many years without dis- comfort or appreciable danger. The general health must be attended to on ordinary principles ; but no medicines are of any special service in these cases. The treatment of that form of atony of the bladder, which arises in younger subjects, as the effect of gonorrhceal cystitis or stone in the bladder, consists in the daily use of the catheter. Nux vomica may possibly be of use in some cases. Whenever the urine becomes turbid or offensive, antiseptic injections must be used. All this the patient may, in most cases, be readily taught to do for himself. When once he has acquired the art of auto-catheterism, he may pursue the ordinary business of life with comfort and without peril. But he must never relax his care of himself, lest subacute cystitis may come on, or phosphatic deposits form in the bladder. INCONTINENCE OF URINE. The term " incontinence of urine " is usually applied to all cases in which the urine is passed involuntarily. It occurs in three forms:—1. Passive .incontinence, in which the urine dribbles away as fast as it is secreted, the bladder remaining empty. 2. Distension of the bladder with overflow'. 3. Active incontinence, in which the bladder is emptied involuntarily at short intervals by its own contraction. Passive Incontinence arises most commonly from paralysis of the neck of the bladder, from disease or injury of the spinal cord. It is occasionally met with in children from causes that are not clearly ascertained. Civiale states that it has been known to arise from impaction of a calculus in the