DISEASES OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA. ASS Tuberculous caries of the patella is the most rare of the different ways in which tuberculous disease of the knee-joint commences ; a chronic abscess slowly forms over the bone, aud by early treatment the spread of the disease into the knee may be prevented. Sarcoma of the patella is very rarely niet with. A specimen of round and spindle-celled sarcoma of the bone, for which amputation was performed by J. Lane, is preserved in the Museum of St. Mary's Hospital. In a case of pulsating myeloid sarcoma of the patella Lister removed the bone and obtained a useful limb by excising the articular surfaces of the femur and tibia. DISEASES OF THE TIBIA AND FIBULA. The Tibia is very frequently the seat of tuberculous caries of the upper epiphysis, less frequently of the lower epiphysis. Chronic abscess is more commonly met in the head of the tibia than in any other bone (p. 270). Necrosis of the shaft is usually the result of acute infective periostitis, but all the varieties of syphilitic disease are met with in this bone. The superficial position of its inner surface explains the frequency with which superficial necrosis results from chronic ulceration and other inflammatory affections of the parts covering it. Occasionally, as the result of acute necrosis, a con- siderable extent of the shaft, indeed the whole of it, may be removed as a loosened sequestrum, from the interior of the periosteum, more or less con- solidated and strengthened by the deposit of new bone. Such operations present nothing special, and the result is usually very satisfactory, the limb that is left being strong, useful, and sound. Disease of the Fibula requiring operative interference is rare, but necrosis may affect a part or the whole of the shaft. In one case, that of a child six years of age, I successfully removed the whole of the necrosed fibula. This operation is readily done by slitting up the sinuses in a direction so as to expose the sequestrum, which may then be drawn out without difficulty (Figs. 589 and 590). After the operation an inner splint must be applied in