SCIRlumS OF THE BBEAST: FATUOLOGY. 797 I „,ri By the coalescence of these the condition above described of wide- ^ifSSf^.:^ ™s ZLtLiy siow con.e but eventnai,. t,,e Atiopiujiiuj ^tiiiioi Thp P-rowth shows a remarkable often d—^ The ^DD e sdLplyretracte the skin very puckered and adherent to the Iti wh ch is itself fomly fixed to the chest wall. In advanced stages the nramnrof the part may be most remarkable. For instance in one case a ToZ^^r ,2, the disease was of more thaa seven years' duration. The Te tTea t was moderately large, bnt the right one had almost entirely dis- appea ed, and was replaced by a puckered scar-like mass abont two inches n Imeter; with a small superficial nicer in the position of the nipple. The natient's o-eneral health was excellent, and there was no pam. ^ T^e Deration of Life in untreated cases of scirrhus of the breast varies greatly, the disease sometimes proving fatal in a few months, and m others not for many years. As a general rule, to which there are many exceptions, the younger the patient the more rapidly fatal is the disease The occurrence of pregnancy often leads to a rapid increase in the rate of growth. Astley Cooper states that the disease, on an average, is from two to three years m oTowing, and from six months to two years in destroying life after bemg fully formed In this estimate, which is probably correct, Walshe agrees. Paget states tiiat the average duration of life in cases in which the disease is allowed to run its course without operation is four years ; but the statistics of bibley and Von Winiwarter give a period of only from thirty-two to thirty-three months, and those of Gross about twenty-seven months. The average dura- tion of fife in cancer of the breast may therefore probably be estimated at about three years. j- In the atrophying variety, as already stated, the duration of the disease may be very prolonged, and extend to ten or even twenty years ; the average duration, according to Gross, being eighty-two months. Pathological Structure.—After removal, scirrhus of the mamma presents considerable variety in appearance. In the majority of instances it occurs as. a peculiarly hard, knobbed, and irregular mass, creaking under the knife, when cut, and presenting on section a greyish or bluish-grey, semi-transparent, surface, traversed in various directions by bands of a more opaque character,, and exuding on pressure a thin milky juice. The section has been very aptly compared to that of an unripe pear. In all slow-growing hard cancers the- cut surface becomes distinctly concave, a peculiarity which distinguishes them from all other tumours. In many specimens spots and streaks of an opaque yellowish appearance may be seen in the midst of the tumour ; they are the result of fatty degeneration. In other cases, again, on pressing the tumour, small drops of a thick creamy fluid will appear to exude at various points. This seems to be the inspissated and altered secretion of the gland retained in the ducts. Cysts are occasionally, though rarely, met with in scirrhus of the breast ; these are usually small, and contain clear fluid, being deeply imbedded in the substance of the tumour; in other cases they may be large and globular, and filled with a bloody or dark-green liquid. The microscopical characters of scirrhus of the breast are represented in Figs. 389, 390, and 392, Vol. I., pp. 10(15, 10G6. The examination of the surrounding tissues with the naked eye and