TREATMENT OF INTRAORBITAL ANEURISM. 187 occasion the symptoms of increased vascular activity that are so characteristic of the disease. The secondary phenomena that are observed in these cases, such as conges- tion of the eyelids, of the palpebral and ocular conjunctivse, amounting even to chemosis in many cases, and the muddiness of the aqueous humour and lens, ai-e doubtless due to an interference with the return of blood from these parts through the ophthalmic vein, and to the consequent congestion of the smaller vessels and effusion of serum. The protrusion of the eye-ball is due to the vascular tumour, whatever its precise nature may be, and the derangement in vision to an alteration in the axis of the eye consequent on this extrusion. It is remarkable that the bruit in these cases should be so loud, not only to the patient's own senses, but to the ear of the Surgeon ; and this can be accounted for only by the proximity of the cranial bones, which may act as conductors of sound. Diagnosis.—The Diagnosis of pulsating tumour is sufficiently easy, but it is just as difficult to determine accurately the cause of the disease. It is probable that nearly all the traumatic cases are due to aneurismal varix of the carotid artery and cavernous sinus. The sudden onset of the disease with a crack or snap in idiopathic cases would lead to a presumption that a small aneurism of the carotid had given way into the sinus. Congenital cases are probably aneurisms by anastomosis. Beyond this, accurate diagnosis of the pathological condition is hardly possible. The disease most likely to be mistaken for an intraorbital aneurism is a pulsating sarcoma of the bones of the orbit. In this, however, the pulsation is less expansile and the peculiar harsh bruit is wanting. Prognosis.—I think it is still doubtful what would happen in a large number of these cases, if the disease were left to itself without operation. It might be supposed that it would probably have a fatal termination ; that rupture would take place either into the cranial cavity or externally, and that sudden death would occur. That this has occasionally happened is proved by recorded cases, but it is by no means a necessary consequence of the disease. Spontaneous cure appears to take place in some cases : thus I have seen a gentleman about 44 years of age, who, in consequence of a fall on the head a few months previously presented the characteristic symptoms of intraorbital aneurism. Ligature of the carotid artery was recommended, but the patient would not consent to the operation, and fourteen months later the symptoms of the disease had to a great extent disappeared. A grave prognosis should not be given hastily, as it is only by watching the case that a correct con- clusion can be arrived at. If the protrusion of the eye-ball continues to increase, and the globe itself begins to suffer, and vision is lost, the prognosis becomes grave and the case is one requiring surgical treatment. If there is no increase of the symptoms after some months, the patient may be left to nature unless the annoyance of the disease is great. Treatment.—The occasional occurrence of spontaneous cure, the un- certainty in which we often are as to the real nature of the disease, and the certainty that in some instances at least there is no true aneurismal tumour, would justify the Surgeon in having recourse to medical treatment, aided by digital compression of the carotid, and, perhaps, the application of ice to the forehead, before proceeding to operate. That these means are occasionally successful,, there can be no doubt. Gioppi, of Padua, has recorded a case in