1 EXTRAVASATION OF VlilNE. i'°S time there is a sense of some relief, as if he were emptying the bladder, followed by a hot and burning throbbing P^^" ™ ^^^"p'eoeded by the formation Tn ni-hpv oases the m-ocess is more gradual, ana is piecLueu uj u of arabs~the Lmediate neighboiirhood of the ure^ra most prob^^^^^^^^ commencing in one of the lacnni« or glands opening into it The absces burste into the urethra, and its cavity is subsequently distended with ur ne at each act of micturition ; finally its walls give way, and general extravasation ak^place n some cases it is probable that the abscess arises from ^'/umUed extras of urine into the tissues f immediate neicrhbourhood of the urethra, consequent upon ulceration of the mucou membrane behind the stricture. In these cases the signs of perine^a Ibscess presently to be described, precede the extravasation often for '""The^part of the urethra that gives way is almost invariably the membranous portion of the canal, just between the layers of the triangular ligamen where it is weak, being least supported by surrounding structures, and usually most dilated and attenuated by the pressure to which it has been subjected, ihe extravasated urine afterwards finds its way through the inferior layer of the triangular ligament, where it is perforated by the urethra, and so beneath the deep layer of the superficial fascia of the perineum, by which its course is afterwards directed. The fascia is .firmly attached across the perinBeum to the free border of the triangular ligament and, along each side, to ttie rami of the ischium and pubes, as far upwards as the pubic spme, from which point its attachments are continued outwards along Poupart's ligament to the crest of the ilium. The extravasated urine, therefore, uniformly takes a course forward into the perinaBum and scrotum, and upwards upon the external organs of generation, the groins, and the anterior abdominal wall; so that it ascends contrary to gravity rather than soaks back into the more dependent parts of the body, as it would do, were it not for the particular connexions of the fascia that have just been alluded to. I have, however, known the super- ficial fascia to give way, and the urine, then gravitating backward, to give rise to extensive sloughing in the ischio-rectal fossae and about the nates, denuding the rectum. The Local Effects of Extravasated Urine that has become acrid, de- composed, and concentrated by long retention, are most deleterious^ upon the tissues with which it comes into contact. It acts as a most intense irritant on all that it touches. The vitahty of whatever portion of areolar tissue it infiltrates is quickly destroyed; the tissue becoming converted into a kind of putrid stringy slough, intermixed with and soddened by a quantity of fetid dark-coloured acrid pus and urine. The ravages of extravasated urine are often extensive ; the urethra giving way suddenly behind the stricture, the fluid is driven with all the force of the over-distended bladder into the perinseum, and thence rapidly finds its way through the scrotum upwards. Rapid swelling and in- filtration, partly urinous, partly inflammatory, take place in the scrotum and penis ; these parts become enormously distended, red, and oedematous. The skin is speedily affected, becoming of a dusky-red or purple colour, and then falling into a state of gangrene, sometimes with emphysema. In this way the testes may become denuded and the cords exposed. It is remarkable, however, if the patient survive these destructive efiects, with what rapidity repair goes on in this region. It is seldom that infiltration extends higher than the