420 DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JOINT. cation may take place, even before any extensive destruction of the articular surfaces has occurred. Such an accident is favoured by softeniug and ulcera- tion of the capsular ligament, destruction of the ligaraentum teres, and possibly by over-distension of the capsule with pus or inflammatory exudation. It may indeed be stated generally that in every case of dislocation of the hip occurring in a child, careful inquiry must be made as to the presence of any symptoms indicative of joint disease before the accident. The dislocation is almost invariably of the dorsal variety, the head of the bone escaping above the tendon of the obturator internus. The limb assumes the ordinary attitude of that displacement, being shortened, flexed, adducted, and rotated inwards. In rare cases, however, when the limb has been kept perfectly extended on a splint, the head of the bone may be displaced so as to lie on the anterior part of the dorsum ilii immediately behind and below the anterior inferior iliac spine, the trochanter being directed backwards and the limb everted and extended. This position is probably always the result of treatment in which the limb has been kept perfectly extended but without sufficient care being taken to prevent eversion. It occasionally happens when the disease commences in the femur that the whole epiphysis of the head becomes separated from the shaft and remains in the acetabulum while the trochanter is drawn upwards and rests on the dorsum ilii. In those cases the head commonly necroses and remains as a foreigu body in the acetabulum, indefinitely prolonging the disease unless removed by operation. Should true dislocation occur without the supervention of suppuration a fake joint may be formed upon the dorsum ilii where the bone lodges. If suppura- tion is present the head of the bone will be found in a carious state, and no attempt, or at the most an imperfect one, is made at the construction of an articulation around it. Although true dislocation is rare, a gradual displacement of the upper end of the femur in a direction backwards and upwards is very common. This is produced by the action of the muscles passing to the upper end of the thigh bone, and is a necessary result of the erosion of the head and the wearing away of the brim of the acetabulum. The result of this displacement is an increasing shortening of the limb, the summit of the great trochanter being raised a con- siderable distance above Nelaton's line ; adduction and rotation of the limb inwards are also usually present. In macerated specimens of this kind the upper part of the acetabulum, against which the diseased head of the femur has been lying, shows the porous spongy appearance indicative of rarefying osteitis, while the lower part, which has been relieved by displacement of the femur upwards, shows evident signs of repair, new bone having been formed which closes up the cancellous spaces, and often renders the structure more dense than natural. These appearances show that the acetabulum when affected secondarily, will readily repan- if relieved from the irritation of the friction of the diseased head of the femur against it. In very rare instances of extensive destruction of the acetabulum the head of the femur has been known to slip into the pelvis. 7 Ankylosis may occur either with or without previous suppuration, it the joint has suppurated and the head of the bone be displaced on to the dorsum ilii, a false joint may eventually form, or osseous ankylosis in a more or less faulty position may take place. If the head of the bone continue in the