TENOTOMY. 527 degenerative changes have commenced in the paralysed muscles. In the case just described the sponge connected with the positive pole should be tied over the external popliteal nerve behind the head of the fibula, and the negative sponge applied freely over the paralysed muscles till the skin becomes slightly reddened.* Friction properly applied forms a useful adjunct to electricity, and great care must be taiven to keep the limb ^yarm by proper clothing, without which the other treatment will be of little avail. In many cases, the contraction may be slowly but very effectually overcome by the use of suitable apparatus, a constant elastic or tensive action being kept up by means of bands of vulcanized india-rlibber or steel springs. The details of these various appliances, though belonging to the department of the instrnment-maker, cannot be too carefully studied by the Surgeon, who, after all, in order to guide and control their action, must be thoroughly conversant with the mechanical principles involved in their construction. In many of the slighter and less chronic cases, the deformity may be remedied by the employment of these milder means, singly or con- joined ; but in those which are congenital or more permanent, the Division of the Tendons at fault is the best mode of restoring the natural condition of the part. The orthopaidic department of surgery owes, in a great measure, its existence to Delpech and Strom- eyer, and its perfection to Little, Tamplin, Adams, and others. Tenotomy.—By tenotomy, as at present practised, is meant the subcutaneous division of a contracted tendon by means of a narrow-bladed knife (Figs. 628, 621), 630) introduced obhquely through a. punc- ture by its side. In doing this, it should be borne in mind that the normal anatomical relations of parts are often a good deal disturbed in cases of deformity : and thus tendons may be approximated to arteries and nerves, from which, in the healthy condition of the limb, they are widely separated. In tbe operation of subcutaneous tenotomy the knife may be used in one of two ways. In the majority of cases the tendon may be most conveniently divided by introducing the blade beneath it sideways, and then turning the edge against it, and scratching through it by a kind of fine sawing movement, whilst it is made tense by an assistant. The knife should, if possible, be used as a lever, the back being firmly pressed against some resisting point. If the blade be pressed directly forwards, there is some danger that it may suddenly cut through the skin as the tendon gives way. The second way is to pass the tenotome superficially to the tendon between it and the skin, and then to turn the edge against it whilst it is made tight by an assistant. By this plan the danger of wounding the skin is avoided. Only a drop or two of blood is lost in the operation ; and, as the divided tendon retracts with a kind of snap, a * For details of the treatment of paralysed muscles by electricity, I must refer the reader to sneeinl Figs. G2S, 029, 030.—Tenotomes.