DISEASE OF THE SAC RO-ILI AC JOINT. D D 2 403 CHAPTEE L. DISEASES OF THE BONES AND JOINTS OF THE LOWER EXTEEMITY. In this chapter are considered the clinical features presented by the various aflPections of the important bones and articulations of the lower limb, and the different operative procedures required in their treatment. In the considera- tion of this subject it is essential to bear in mind that the object of all treatment must be to secure a good basis of support, of sufficient length and stability. The conservative operations performed diflPer thus in some important respects from those that are practised on the upper extremity. In the latter the preservation of the hand, even though in a mutilated condition is the object at which the Surgeon aims ; and, provided this be attained, it matters comparatively htfcle how much the arm maybe shortened or impaired in power In the lower extremity, however, strength, length, and solidity are essential to the patient s comfort and utility, and unless these can be secured, his interests are better served by the removal of the limb, and the adaptation of some artificial contrivance, than by leaving a shortened, wasted, and crippled member, which is unable to support the weight of the body. DISEASE OF a?HE SACEO-ILIAC JOINT. Disease Of the Sacro-iliac Joint is a rare affection. Although it was mentioned by earlier writers, it is to Nekton that we are indebted for the first detailed description of the disease. It has in many cases, no doubt been confounded with some of the varieties of disease of the hip or spine MddnT finds that of 1622 cases of joint disease treated in St. Thomas's Hosp tal du ng the ten years 1881 to 1890, in only 13 was this joint affected, whOst the 2 was diseased m 660. Barker found the same number of cases in a simill? period at University College Hospital. The disease appears to be mostTom monly met with m young adults, and T have myself never seen itTyout children. In Barker's thirteen cases the ages varied between 15 md 5 ? f^t average being 27 ; whilst of Makins's cases two were betren 5 a^d 10 fon. b': ren I at lo' the T ^^^--^O^dTo L^dt oetween 4U and 50. The two sexes appear to be about equally affected • tb„» nave a total ot 83 cases—41 males and 42 females Pathology.-Acute destructive inflammation of the sacro-iliac joint is .aid to have occurred as the result of py^emic infection, and it mav fi^Ilnw fK direct invasion of the joint by an abscess in the neighbourhood An 11 y of this form of disease occurred recently in Univerli v Pnl'l "^^.'^^^P^^ A woman died of pyemia on the thii.y-s7vel Sy af e^aiSon ' Vosi-^orUm examination septic phlebitis of the ^inTX^n^'the intilal