DISEASES OF THE SJIOULDER-JOINT. 382 passed to the ventral aspect of the bone, which is thus drawn forcibly back- wards and outwards. The muscles attached to the coracoid process may then be divided or tlie i)rocess sawn throuf,di at its root. The whole bone can now be drawn still further outwards, and the joint opened i'roni the inner side bv dividing the subscapularis close to its insertion. The disarticulation is then completed, and the remaining muscles divided, the knife being kept as cIom as possible to the bone so as to avoid wounding the main trunk of the sub- scapular. The posterior circumHex is in danger of being cut as the long head of the triceps is divided miless the edge of the knife be turned away from ii. The teres major should be cut near its attachment to the scapula. In this operation the haemorrhage is necessarily copious, and may b' dangerous, but by compression of the subclavian artery after the early stag'-- of the operation, and the immediate application of forcipressure-forceps (tw(j dozen of which at least should be at hand) to every bleeding point, it can usually be kept well under control. After the operation the flaps must be laid down and retained in position 1)\ sutures, free drainage being provided by means of tubes. Result.—Of 45 cases of complete removal of the scapula collected by Poinsot in 1885 Butlin has abstracted 25 in which the operation was undertaken for tumours, which were probably or certainly malignant, as follows :—" Two deaths due to the operation ; two deaths within a very short period of the operation, probably in both cases due to disease of the internal organs ; eleven deaths due to recurrence of the disease or to affection of the lungs ; one recurrence in less than two years, which necessitated amputation of the upper extremity ; three patients lost sight of shortly after recovery from the resection ; four patients said to have been cured, but without any infor- mation of the permanence of the cure ; two cures of eighteen months and six years respectively, but with great uncertainty whether the disease was really malignant in the former of the two cases." Of the whole 45 cases the mortality from the operation was about 10 p6r cent. In successful cases the subsequent utility of the arm has often been very good : thus in Symonds's case the patient was doing his work as a carpenter, including the use of the plane, two and a half years after the operation. DISEASES OF THE SHOULDER-JOINT. Synovitis of the shoulder frequently occurs as the result of rheumatism and injury ; rheumatoid arthritis is common, but tuberculous disease is compara- tively rare. The latter usually commences as a deposit in the upper extremity of the humerus, and, as we have already seen, not unfrequently assumes the form of dry caries. There is, therefore little or no swelling, and the roundness of the shoulder is lost as the result of the atrophy of the deltoid. The chances of spontaneous cure are considerable, with more or less fixation of the joint. When an abscess forms it may come forwards into the bursa beneath the tendon of the subscapularis, or it may escape from the joint along the tendon of the biceps, or extend backwards to the posterior border of the deltoid. In cases of tuberculous disease it may be doubtful whether the shouldei- joint itself is actually involved. In such cases by carefully opemng he abscess, a sequestrum may sometimes be removed irom a carious cavity m tl head of the humerus, without the necessity of excising the joint. Acute