673 OPERATION ON SOFT PALATE. Operation on Soft Palate.—The patient is placed ia a recumbent posi- tion facing a good light, and with the head and shoulders raised to a convenient height on a pillow. The Surgeon stands on the right side, the anesthetist on the left, whilst an assistant at the end of the table steadies the patient's head. Some Surgeons prefer to have the head hanging downwards over the end of the table in order to prevent blood entering the larynx ; the position is incon- venient, and seems to increase the amount of hasmorrhage. Cliloroform will be found the most convenient antesthetic, as it gives rise to less secretion of mucus. It may be given by means of Junker's apparatus through an india-rubber tube passed into the pharynx through one nostril. The gag represented in the accompanying drawing (Fig. 734) is a modification of Smith's by Wood. It can be adjusted to fit any patient by more or less widely separating the two halves. A. small-sized Langenbeck's gag often answers admirably (Fig. 746). The first step in the operation consists in paring the edges of the fissure by means of a narrow sharp-pointed knife like a tenotome set in a long handle. This is best done by seizing the lower end of the uvula on one side in a pair of toothed forceps and putting the corresponding half of the palate on the stretch. The cut may be made from above downwards or from below upwards, first on one side and then on the other, but whatever plan is adopted great care must be taken not to leave a portion of mucous membrane behind in the angle of union. A sponge pressed into the gap will quickly arrest the bleeding, while the fauces are cleared of blood and mucus by means of sponges on holders. When the bleeding is arrested, the Surgeon proceeds to the next step, that of introducing the sutures. The best material for these is in most cases fine silver wire or silkworm gut. Cat-gut absorbed too readily and is apt to yield before nnion is complete. Silk, which was formerly used, cannot be retained beyond a few days, as it excites too much irritation when soaked in decomposing fluids. Horse-hair will be found useful in uniting the uvula, but is not strong enough for the other parts of the palate. Wire stitches are usually introduced by Smith's tubular needle specially constructed for the purpose, from which the wire is protruded hy a small wheel at the lower end. In the absence of this apparatus they mav very readily be passed as follows : A common nsevus needle is threaded witli a loop of fine silk ; this is passed through the right side of the cleft and drawn out at the mouth. A similar loop is then passed on the left side. The right oop is then passed through the left, which is withdrawn, carrying the first oop with it through the left side of the palate. There is thus a double igature passed across the cleft, having two free ends on the right side and a loop on the left. A fine hook is then made with a pair of dissecting forceps on a piece of wire ; this is hooked into the loop, which is then withdrawn carrying the wire with it across the cleft. This proceeding, though it seems '•ather complicated in a written description, can be carried out with great ease ^ind rapidity ; and the needle being passed on both sides from before back-^ Fig. 731.—Wood's mocliflcation of Smith's Gag. IS VOL. ir. X X