EXTRADURAL ABSCESS. 5^1 , he local si2-ns iust mentioned. In some cases the pus works its way through ll'e outer wall of the antrum and forms a superficial abscess behmd the ear, which may burst spontaneously and leave a sinus. _ a • v, ^ %eatment.-ln l case presenting symptoms of pent-up pus m which no rehef has followed the removal of any existing obstruction m the external meatus and certainly in every instance in which the characteristic signs of mastoid abscess are present, the Surgeon should at once proceed to open up rhe mastoid antrum. The surrounding scalp having been shaved and rendered aseptic, an incision should be made about half an inch behmd the ear curving sli^-htly forwards at the upper part above the attachment ot the auricle, and terminating below at the tip of the mastoid process. The pmna is then pulled well forwards and the bone exposed and examined. In rare cases it may be found that an opening has already formed, which must then be enlarged with a gouge. More commonly the periosteum is loosened or raised by^pus without any opening existing. To reach the mastoid antrum the bone must be cut away with a small gouge, at a point immediately above and behind the intersection of two liues—one drawn vertically through the posterior border of the auditory meatus, and the other horizontally through its upper margin (Fig. 663). This point lies in the area for which Macewen has suggested the name of the " suprameatal triangle ;" it is bounded by the posterior root of the zygoma above, the upper and posterior part of the bony meatus below, and an imagi- nary line drawn perpendicu- larly upwards from the most posterior part of the meatus. After cutting away a comparatively thm layer of bone the antrum is reached, after which the remaining cells may be broken into with a strong probe. All inspissated pus and granulation tissue may then be cleaned out with a small sharp spoon. Various special instru- ments have been devised for cutting away the bone, such as small trephines and drills, but the operation is much more safely performed with a gouge and mallet. If the bone be cut away too far back, there is danger of wounding the lateral sinus (Fig. 668), and for this reason the instrument must never be directed backwards. After the cells are opened, it is advisable in snme cases to cut away part of the bony wall of the meatus. A metal or india-rubber drainage-tube is then inserted and some antiseptic sokition syringed through it daily. By the timely performance of this operation many patients may be saved from the dangers of intracranial suppuration. Extradural Abscess^—In this condition suppuration occurs between the dura mater and some part of the temporal bone, often as the result of extensive necrosis of the tympanum or mastoid. Barker finds that the two most common situations of extradural abscess are the neighbourhood of the petro-squamous suture and the lateral sulcus, the former especially in children. Y\c. 663 —Temporal Bone showing position of Lateral Siniis and the point (x) from which the Mastoid Antrum may be reached.