. : ': \ .FORCIBLE EXPANSION JN STRICTURE 1189 t,Vhttv crasped- aqd in twelve hours or a little longer it may, in most cases, &Ser a.fine gam-elastic catheter. This plan of treatment is of grea •^e1™ in whidi considerable diltlculty is found m^ro^'J^^^^^. 'SLument, but it has the disadvantage of ^eing extreme y apt to set^^^^^ <iystitis. If the treatment be continued beyond three days, the ^iiine wii Xost always be found to be alkaline ; and this is scarcely to be wondered at then we consider the way in which the bladder is, as it were opened up to The air The risk of cystitis is much diminished by drammg the bladder, fo hen no urine is left to decompose, and the mere contact of the soft mstrument with the walls of the bladder seems to cause but little irritation by itself. In rare cases, sloughing of the urethra may take place at the seat of stricture leading to perin^eal abscess. A case of this kind occurred some years ago m University College Hospital. . 3 Electrolysis.—The cure of a stricture by destroying the fibroid tissue which narrows the urethra, by electrolysis, was introduced by Mallez and Tripier,more than twenty years ago, but did not find much favour Its results were uncertain, and in some cases it was followed by perinaeal access and other complications. It has been revived by Newman of New York, Fort of Paris, and has been practised in this country by Bruce Clarke, Edwards and others. The operation consists in passing the negative electrode, which is like an ordinary soft catheter with a metal tip, down to the stricture, and placing the positive, which must have a large moist pad, on some part of t he body, as the back. The strength of the cnrrent is accurately measured with a galvanometer and should be from 2 J to 5 milliamperes. The electrode is held gently against the stricture, and after a period varying from a few minutes to half an hour, it will be found to have passed through. The operation should give little or no pain. It requires to be repeated two or three times, a larger electrode being used on each occasion. Fort of Pans, who demonstrated his method in this country in 1889, employs a linear electrolyser resembling a Maisonneuve's urethrotome. It consists of a long bougie 2 millimeters in diameter, terminated by a filiform guide. The current is conveyed by a fine wire in the bougie to a blunt triangular blade of platinum which projects from the instrument and rests against the stricture. Newman, who strongly advocates this treatment, asserts that he has operated on two hundred cases without an accident and without a relapse. It is asserted that the current used in this way does not actually cauterise, but causes chemical decomposition and absorption of the scar tissue. This method of treatment is again on its trial. That it is not more dangerous than other modes of treatment and that by it the canal may be restored to its normal size, seems to be tolerably clearly proved, but better evidence is wanted than has as yet been furnished that it effects a permanent cure without any tendency to a relapse. If it can do this, it stands alone amongst all methods of treating stricture. 4. Forcible Expansion or Rupture.—Forcible and rapid dilatation cjiusing the expansion and rupture of the stricture, is a method that, originally practised by Luxmoor, Arnott, and Buchanan of Glasgow, has been revived, and ingeniously modified in detail, by many Surgeons, amongst whom Reybard, Maisonneuve, Perreve, Wakley, Holt, Thompson, and Hill are the most conspicuous. However varied the means by which strictures are thus