938 OPERATIONS ON THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. formed this operation in more than 30 cases. It has been performed twice in i^ew \ork, with a fatal result. Two successful cases have been performed Z this country, one by Hagyurd of Hull and one by F.Treves. ]n all the successful cases the patient has experienced great relief, and ib is reported that there has been no case of recurrence of the stricture. OPERATIONS ON THE LIVER. Surgical procedures on the liver are required for the relief of abscesses for the cure of hydatid cysts, and for some affections of the gall-bladder. Abscess of the Liver.—Abscesses of the liver maybe multiple or single Multiple abscesses are usually the result of pyaemia, and admit of no surgical treatment. The single abscess generally occurs in patients who have lived in tropical regions, and is consequently often termed the " tropical abscess." The diagnosis of the disease belongs rather to the Physician than to the Surgeon. It will be suflacient to mention here that the chief symptoms are fever, rigors^ loss of appetite and health, occasional jaundice, with pain in the region of the liver, and sometimes in the right shoulder. The condition of the patient when he is seen in this country has been fully depicted by Godlee. He is sallow, partly from combined anaemia and mild icterus, and partly from the bronzing which is caused by the burning tropical suns ; yellow jaundice is rare. He is thin, anxious-looking, and wasted ; the abdomen is full and more or less motionless. The tongue is pale and furred, and the extremities tend to be cold and clammy. The liver is usually enlarged, sometimes considerably, and there is often a prominence at the epigastrium or a little to the right, or else in the lower part of the right axilla. If the latter, the liver dulness is raised, and the intercostal spaces slightly bulged, both these signs disappearing or becoming less marked when the patient turns on to the left side, unless the abscess is actually pointing. The amount of tenderness over the liver varies with the depth at which the abscess is situated. The elevation of temperature is usually slight. The bowels are as a rule constipated ; the urine scanty and high-coloured. The abscess, if unrelieved, most commonly comes to the surface, either in the epigastric region or through one of the lower intercostal spaces, usually in the axilla. It may, however, extend through the diaphragm and com- municate with the lung, an accident which is often accompanied by hasmo- ptysis, and is followed by expectoration of blood-stained or chocolate-coloured pus ; or it may burst into the pleura. More rarely rupture has taken place into the stomach or intestine, or into the peritoneum, with the production of general peritonitis, or more often of a localized subdiaphragmatic abscess. Treatment.—If the existence of an abscess of the liver is suspected, the presence of pus should be ascertained by the use of the aspirator. This pro- cedure is not altogether free from risk, and Grodlee has recorded a most instruc- tive case in which fatal hasmorrhage followed exploration of an enlarged liver with an aspirator needle, the enlargement being due to leucocythtemia, and not to abscess as was suspected. When the presence of pus has been proved, the sooner the abscess is opened and drained the better ; when possible, Fayrer recommends that this be done in front rather than behind. When the operation is performed in front, adhesions will usually be found between the liver and the abdominal wall, but