414 DISEASE OF THE 11 IP-J01 NT. yielding no juice, not breaking down at all easily under the finger, torn wiiii difficulty by the needle, and when torn showing great numbers of nuclei and fibres. They pervaded the whole bone, and were found also in the acetabu- lum, but in smaller numbers. Some of them could easily be enucleated where the medulla was soft ; others could be separated only with difficulty from the cancellous bone. In this case the disease evidently began in the upper end of the femur and secondarily involved the synovial membrane ; it illustrates probably the most common form of the tuberculous affections of the hip. According to the seat of the primary deposit, tuberculous disease of the hip may be divided into the synovial, acetabular, and femoral varieties, of which the last is probably the most common. It is generally agreed by writers on the subject that primary osseous deposits are more common than primary disease of the synovial membrane. Thus, of 132 cases of excision examined by Haberern, 80 were osseous, 23 synovial, and 29 doubtful. Watson Cheyne, who believes that synovial disease is less common in the hip than in the knee, does not think that the difference is so great as Haberern's figures would seem to indicate. The exact position of the primary tuberculous deposit in the upper end of the femur varies considerably: thus it may be found in the neck of the bone, in the great trochanter, or in the cancellous tissue of the head. Cheyne thinks that the usual j)osition is the lower part of the neck just outside the epiphysial cartilage. When the disease commences in the acetabulum the deposit is usually situated near the Y-shaped cartilage, which is often rapidly destroyed. Acetabular disease is especially common in adults. In some cases, even at an early stage of the disease, tuberculous deposits may be found in both the acetabulum and femur. This was well illustrated in a case reported by Godlee, in which the disease was apparently receiving great benefit from treatment, when the child died of tuberculous meningitis. The examination of the hip showed two small tuberculous centres, each forming a cavity about the size of a pea, filled with soft granulation tissue. One was situated in the growing bone in contact with the Y-shaped cartilage of the acetabulum, and the other in the same tissue between the epiphysis of the head and the neck of the femur. The synovial membrane was injected, and its fringes swollen and becoming converted into granulation tissue. It is unnecessary to describe in detail the various changes which the joint undergoes in the different varieties of tuberculous disease, for these have already been sufficiently discussed in a previous chapter. Certain points, however, are deserving of special consideration. In cases of synovial disease, as soon as the cartilage covering the head of the femur has been destroyed, the cancellous tissue of the head which is already softened by rarefying osteitis may be rapidly worn away. When the upper end of the femur is primarily affected, sequestra are often present which may be soft and spongy, or of the dense wedge-shaped variety. In some cases the remains of the head of the bone may be completely separated as a sequestrum. In rare instances the disease may extend down into the upper part of the shaft as a tuberculous osteomyelitis. Slow destruction of the head of the femur may occur by a process of dry caries. One of the most important results of acetabular disease is complete perforation of the bone and the formation of an intrapelvic abscess. Sequestra are not uncommonly present in the acetabulum. The brim of the cotyloid cavity suffers most at its upper