50 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. 11 tiument like a hbhotn e by which he could cut a deep groove through tl. f operation, but uses a gal van : cautery instead of a knife. Such operations have not, however, been attended with sufhcient suc.-ess to inspire Surgeons in general with any confidence in their utility. Of the various methods which have been devised for attacking the enlarged p-ostate from the perin^eum, the simplest is that practised by Reginahl Harrison. Ihe operation consists in dividing the prostate through tl,. ordinary incision employed in digital exploration of the bladder (p II19, The projecting bar is divided partly with a probe-pointed bistoury, and partiv by diviilsion With the finger. A large gum-elastic tube is then inserted and through It a soft catheter is passed into the bladder for draina'^e Th- presence of the tube maintains the channel made by division of the°prostate It must be retained for many weeks, until urine can be passed voluntarily bv the urethra, or a catheter readily introduced. By far the most radical operation, however, for enlarged prostate consists in opening the bladder above the pubes and removing the obstructing portion of the gland—suprapubic prostatectomy. This operation, which had been performed by Belfield of Chicago, and by Trendelenburg, Socin and others on the Continent was first advocated in this country by McGill of Leeds in 1888, who published three cases in which he had successfully performed it witli great benefit to the patient. The operation is performed in the same way as in suprapubic lithotomy until the bladder is opened (p. 1044). The mucous membrane over the pro- jecting part of the prostate is snipped through with scissors, and the enucle- ation effected with the finger and forceps. Hemorrhage is arrested by irrigation with hot water. A drainage tube is inserted into the bladder and retained for two or three days. This operation has now been performed in a large number of cases with considerable success, and in several instances calculi in the post-prostatic pouch have at the same time been removed. The suprapubic method is generally regarded as preferable to the peringeal in most cases as it allows a more thorough removal of the obstruction. The operation is not however unaccompanied by danger, and if the patient can easily pass a catheter for himself, and is free from any other complication, it seems hardly justifiable to submit him to an operation which may prove fatal. If, however, the patient cannot pass the catheter, or suffers from constant cystitis with great irritability of the bladder, or from frequent haemorrhage, some operative pro- •cedure gives the best chance of relief Suprapubic drainage has for some time been recognised as the best treatment in cases of prostatic disease which cannot be relieved by catheter, and experience seems to show that it is not only justifiable, but advisable to extend the operation to the removal of the cause of obstruction if possible. Castration for Enlarged Prostate.—The considerations which have recently led to the performance of castration in certain cases of enlargement of the prostate are chiefly, the effect of removal of the ovaries in causing diminution in size of fibroid tumours of the uterus, and the well known fact that removal of the testes in young animals prevents the development of the prostate, and in adult animals causes its atrophy. In a certain number of cases it has also been observed in man that removal