CHARCOTS DISEASE. 359 becomes distorted, the affected side of the jaw projecting and being pushed towards the opposite side ; but when both joints are affected, the ohm projects, the entire jaw being drawn forwards. This distortion is chiefly owing to the destruction of the articular eminence : for, when this takes place, the external pterygoid muscle draws the jaw forwards and to the opposite side ; but when both articulations are equally affected, these muscles displace it directly forwards : the glenoid cavity becomes enlarged, the fibro-cartilage disappears, and the condyle is sometimes greatly thickened and flattened, and always rough, being devoid of cartilage. In such cases there is little to be done by medicines ; but the treatment must be conducted on the same principles as in the same affection attacking the hip. Chronic Rheumatoid Arthritis of the Shoulder.—When it affects the shoulder, chronic rheumatoid arthritis gives rise to a considerable enlargement of the head of the humerus, wasting and rigidity of the deltoid, and inability to move the elbow upwards, except by the rotation of the scapula on the trunk. In fact the shoulder being fixed, all movements are effected through the medium of the scapula, which becomes more mobile than natm'al. The articulation is the seat of much pain, lancinating at times, but generally gnawing and intermittent, and greatly increased in cold and wet weather. The whole of the arm becomes wasted, and weakened in power. In two instances I have seen this disease in otherwise robust and healthy men, between twenty and thii-ty years of age, coming on without any apparent cause. In both cases the rigidity persisted, though the pain was relieved.by the use of the iodides and by counter-irritation. DISEASES OF JOINTS OP CEREBEAL OR SPINAL ORIGIN. The so-called arthropathies occurring as the result of diseases of the central nervous system may be divided, according to Charcot, into two classes :— 1. Arthropathy of Paralysed Limhs.—Acute or subacute inflammation with considerable swelling from effusion into the joint, and more or less severe pain, is occasionally observed in the articulations of limbs paralysed from acute or subacute inflammation of the spinal cord. Mitchell has observed it in paraplegia from spinal caries; Yigues, Joffroy, and Grull as the result of paralysis from traumatic lesion of the cord ; Scott, Ahsoii, and others have also met with a similar affection of the joints in limbs paralysed from circum- scribed cerebral softening, or intracephalic hsemorrhage. It comes on at the same time as the contraction of the muscles commences, usually fifteen days to a month after the paralysis has set in. It has no tendency to end in suppuration. 2. Arthropathy of Ataxic Patients, or Charcot's Disease.—This condition was first described by Charcot. It was exhaustively investigated by a Committee of the Clinical Society of London, by whom a valuable report was published in 1887. The disease occurs in patients suffering from locomotor ataxy, setting in without apparent cause at various stages of the malady, either before or after the appearance of the ataxic symptoms in the limbs. Thus in 47 cases collected by the Committee above mentioned, in 10 the joint lesion was situated in the upper extremity, and in only one of these were there any signs of want of co-ordination in the movements of the limb. In 37 the joints of the lower limb were affected, and in 20 of these there was