LIGATURE OF THIRD FART OF SUBCLAVIAN. 197 practicable, on account of the depth at which the artery is situated. It has, however, been performed in one case by J. R. Rodgers of New York ; and it was attempted once by Astley Cooper, who failed to secure the vessel, and is said to have wounded the thoracic duct. In another case McGill exposed the artery, and temporarily compressed it with a pair of forceps. The pleura w^as wounded in the operation, and the patient died on the sixth day, of pleurisy. Ligature of the Third Part of the Subclavian is rarely practicable in cases of subclavian aneurism, as this part of the vessel is more or less completely covered by the sac. Poland has, however, collected twenty-one cases in which this operation has been performed for subclavian or subclavio- axillary aneurism. Of these nine recovered. The sac was punctured in two cases—by Liston and Travers. The majority of the deaths were from haemor- rhage. Warren relates a remarkable case occurring in a lady aged thirty, who was afflicted with an aneurism just above the clavicle. The patient was exces- sively deformed from club-foot and curvature of the spine, so that the two first ribs rose above the clavicle, passing obliquely across the neck and carrying the artery upwards and backwards, so that it lay parallel to, and about an inch from, the external border of the trapezius. This peculiarity of position enabled "Warren to tie the artery on the cardiac side of the tumour, and the case had a successful issue. The results of the treatment of subclavian aneurism by the application of a ligature to the innominate or to the first part of the subclavian have been so disastrous that a repetition of these attempts can hardly be recommended. What then are we to do ? Are we to leave patients labouring under aneurism of the subclavian artery to inevitable death, without making an effort to save them ? Or does surgery offer other modes of treatment besides those just mentioned, by which we may hope to arrive at more successful results ? We have already seen that in all cases constitutional treatment and complete rest must first be tried ; that these may be combined with direct pressure over the aneurism or distal compression of the artery whenever possible ; and lastly, that galvano-puncture, acupuncture, and perhaps manipulation are- worthy of further trial. Two other modes of treatment present themselves :— 1. Distal Ligature of the third part of the Subclavian. 2. Amputation at the Shoulder-joint, and Distal Ligature of the artery. 1. Distal Ligature of the Third Part of the Subclavian Artery may, perhaps, hold out some prospect of success in cases of aneurism situated behind or internal to the scalenus. In an aneurismal sac springing from the artery in this situation, the principal current of blood would, in all probability, be that which is destined for the supply of the upper extremity. Some of the branches arising from the artery before it has passed beyond the scalenus anticus would, doubtless, be more or less compressed, and thus obliterated by the tumour; or they might be obstructed by an extension of the laminated fibrm over their orifices. If, therefore, the supply to the upper extremity could be cut off, there might be a possibility of those changes takino- place withm the sac which are necessary for the obliteration of its cavity The prmcipal obstacles to this result would be the transverse cervical and supra- scapular arteries ; which, being the vessels that chiefly carry on the circulation m the upper extremity after the ligature of the subclavian, would necessarily