DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. ioo6 CHAPTER LXVI. DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. IT^^TiL within recent years, althougli some donbtful cases of removal of renal calculi by opemtion had been recorded, but few affections of the kidney were considered within the reach of surgical interference. Renal abscesses when distinctly pointing m the loin were opened, and calculi had in excep tional cases been discharged from the opening then made ; but until Simon of Heidelberg, in 1869, successfully removed the kidney, no definite operations were systematically undertaken on that organ. At the present time the following distinct operations are performed on the kidney :—1. Aspiration. 2. Nephrotomy, or incision of the kidney .3 Nephro-hthotomy, or removal of a stone from an otherwise healthy kidney' 4. Nephrectomy, or complete removal of the kidney. 5. Nephrorrhaphy or fixing a movable kidney in the loin. The various morbid conditions of the kidney for which operative inter- ference IS required are fully described in works on Medicine A brief description only will be given of them here, having reference especially to such pomts as concern the diagnosis of the diseases and influence the Surgeon m his decision regarding the advisability of undertaking operations for their relief. STONE IN THE KIDNEY. Deposits of uric acid and oxalate of lime frequently take place in the kidney. In the great majority of cases the calculous matter passes down into the bladder, either in fine particles, when it is commonly spoken of as gravel, or in larger masses, when it is termed a renal calculus. In many cases, how- ever, the stone remains in the kidney, and may occasion various changes in the organ. Sometimes the calculus occupies one of the calyces and may lie firmly encapsuled in the kidney substance, which in every other respect appears perfectly normal. In other cases a large branched calculus occupyinff the pelvis and calyces is firmly embraced by the remains of the kidney sub'- stance, which is atrophied and indurated as the result of chronic inflammation. A common effect of the lodgment of a calculus in the kidney, especially if it be movable in the pelvis, is the production of Calculous pyelitis, with a gradually increasing formation of pus which escapes by the ureter. Before long, the ureter, partly obstructed by the stone, becomes insufficient to drain away the secretion of the kidney, or the pus which is constantly discharged by the inflamed pelvis, and Hydronephrosis (p. J 017), or Pyonephrosis (p. 1017); is the result. The kidney gradually becomes enlarged, and the swelling assumes the ordinary form of a renal tumour, subsequently to be described. The pelvis becomes dilated, the calyces enlarged, the pyramids destroyed, and at last the kidney may be reduced to a multilocular sac, the walls of which are composed of the thinned cortex surrounded by the thickened