TRENDELENBURG'S OPERATION. 1109 upon the hairs and in the angles of the new bladder. This is best relieved by extracting the hairs with a pair of forceps, and by using weak acid injections to remove the accumulation of phosphates. Other methods have been devised in which the flaps by which the exposed bladder is covered are so disposed that the subcutaneous surface is directed backwards towards the vesical mucous membrane. This plan has been successfully adopted by Thiersch, who covers in the upper and lower halves of the exposed bladder in separate stages by the use of two large lateral flaps. The flap for the lower half of the bladder is raised by vertical incisions, but both ends are left undivided until the deep surface of the flap has granulated, when the upper attachment of the broad bridge of skin is cut across and the flap is turned aci'oss the lower part of the bladder, and adjusted with sutures to the freshened edges. Subsequently a similar strip of skin is raised from the abdominal wall on the other side of the bladder but at a higher level, and after granulation is well established, it is separated at its upper end and adjusted across the upper part of the bladder. The operation is completed by freshening the contiguous edges of the two flaps and uniting them with sutures, similarly uniting the upper border of the superior flap and the margin of skin at the upper border of the bladder, and treating the epispadias by the method described at p. 1217. In all operations in which granulating flaps are used, great care must be taken to cut them of sufiicient size to allow for considerable shrinkage. W. Anderson has successfully modified Thiersch's operation in two im- portant respects. He first dissected away the upper half of the vesical mucous membrane and covered in the resulting raw surface by two lateral flaps united to each other in the middle line by sutures. Subsequently the remaining lower part of the exposed bladder was covered by two lateral flaps raised chiefly from the front of the thighs, and allowed to cicatrize thoroughly on their deep surface before they were adjusted in position. The only other method which needs special mention is that which has been suggested and practised by Trendelenburg of Bonn, and was fhst performed in this country by Makins. Trendelenburg's Operation has for its object the approximation of the separated pubic bones wherejoy the subsequent closure of the defect is facilitated, and this object is accomplished by a free division of the ligamentous structures of the sacro-iliac articulation on each side. The operation is performed as follows : The child is turned on to its face, and each sacro-iliac joint is opened by a vertical incision over it, freely dividing the posterior ligament. Trendelenburg states that the left index finger introduced into the rectum will help to indicate the position of the incisions. By firm pressure on the sides of the pelvis it is now possible to bring the separated pubic bones nearly or quite into contact. The incisions are sutured, drained, and dressed antiseptically, every care being taken to prevent their becoming subsequently soiled by the urine. The approximation of the two halves of the pelvis is maintained by a pelvic girdle, the ends of which are split and crossed in front and attached to weights hanging over the sides of the cot. The second part of the operation is performed after an interval of a month or six* weeks. The exposed bladder, which is con- siderably narrAwed and depressed as the result of the previous operation, is covered by making an incision on each side at the junction of skin and mucous membrane, and continuing each upwards to meet at a point above