^""^ ANEURim. Accii)ENTS AFTER LiGATURE Foii ANEURisM.-The accidents that may follow the apphcat.on of the ligature in a case of aneurism, are : ], S Ida y Hemorrhage rom the seat of ligature ; 2, the Continuance or th Retrn of Pulsation ,n the Sac ; 3, the occurrence of Suppuration and Sloughin. o tl e iumour, with or without ha3morrhage from it ; and 4, Gangrene of th^ Limb npculinr?n<?r^ Hemorrhage from the seat of hgature presents nothing pecuhai, and has already been discussed in Vol. I., p 453 2. The Continuance or Return of Pulsation in 'an Aneurismal Sac af ei successful obliteration, by the ligature, of the artery leading to it, is an interestmg phenomenon, and one that deserves much attention. When the Hunterian operation is successfully performed, though the pulsation in the sac be entirely arrested, a certain quantity of blood continues to be conveyed into and through it by the anastomosing channels, and it is from this that- the ammated fibrin is deposited by which the consolidation of the tumour is ultimately effected. The stream of blood furnished by regurgitation or by transmission through the smaller collateral channels, is continuous, and not pulsatory; occasionally, however, it is transmitted in sufficient quantity by some more than usually direct and opening anastomosing branch, and thus gives rise to a continuance or to a return of the pulsation. It is interesting to observe that, m some of the cases in which this has happened, th»re has been a return of the bruit, but in the majority no sound appears to have been emitted. The period of the return of the pulsation in the sac after the ligature of the- artery varies greatly. In the great majority of cases—at least two-thirds of-i those in which it has happened—a certain degree of thrill or indistinct pulsa- ' tion has been found in the sac shortly after the application of the ligature ; at all^ events within the first twenty-four hours. This may be looked upon as being rather a favourable sign than otherwise, as it is indicative of the free , state of the collateral circulation, and it generally soon disappears spontaneously, the sac undergoing consolidation. Next in order of fi-equency are those cases' in which the pulsation returns in about a month or six weeks after the ligature of the artery, the collateral circulation having been, fully established, and° after continuing for some length of time, gradually ceases. It more rarely happens that the pulsation returns between these two periods ; that is to say, about ten days or a fortnight after the application of the ligature ; though in some instances the slight vibratory thrill, scarcely amounting to a pulsation, which perhaps is perceptible a few hours after an artery has been tied, gradually strengthens at the end of a week or ten days into as distinct and forcible a ' beat as had been noticed before the operation. In some rare instances the pulsation has re-appeared after the lapse of some months, the aneurismal tumour having in the meanwhile undergone absorption ; then indeed it may with justice be looked upon as constituting a secondary aneurism, and as indicating a recurrence of the disease. The cause of the continuance or of the return of the pulsation in an, aneurismal sac, must be looked for in too great a freedom of the collateral ' circulation. Indeed, it is an essential requisite for the manifestation of this phenomenon, that there should be so free and direct a communication between