fkoghess and effects of varix. 63 when once formed, the condition is permanent, unless the vessel become plngu'ed by coagulum, when it may be obliterated. The current of blood is then'^diverted into other channels, and as a rule these in their turn become varicose. The main evil that results from varicose veins in the legs is tlie change that is slowly induced in the nutrition of the skin and subcutaneous areolar tissue, by the retardation of the circulation, and the interference with the dne return of blood. The parts from which the vein derives its blood are often slightly oedematous. After a time the subcutaneous fat becomes indurated, and the skin loses its elasticity, becoming rigid and often darkly pigmented in places. In consequence of the imjDerfect nutrition of the parts ulceration frequently takes place, especially below the middle of the leg. The ulcer has a great tendency to assume the chronic or callous form. Chronic eczema is a frequent consequence of the congestion of the skin caused by varicose veins. There is another accident that may occur as the result of varicose veins of the legs, viz., that the varix may give way—the vein may " burst" as is gene- rally said. In these cases, the word "burst" is scarcely correct. The varix does not give way solely by pressure from within ; but a process of ulceration goes on fr'om without by which its coats become weakened, so that at last a pin-hole aperture forms, giving rise to profuse hgemor- rhage. The bleeding is often so abundant as to induce faintness, and sometimes even death in a few minutes. It takes place in a different way from ordinary venous hemorrhage, the blood coming chiefly from the cardiac and not from the distal side, the incompetent valves not present- ing the ordinary obstacle to the downward flow of blood. It is this that causes its extraordinary copiousness. In most cases this so-called " bursting " is not so sudden but that a Surgeon may foresee the probability of its occurrence, as it most commonly takes place either on the surface of an ulcer, or is preceded by induration, reddening, and thinning of the integuments covering the diseased vein. In some cases, however, the warnings may be very shght. A few years ago a man was brought into University College Hospital, who had died in a few minutes from hsemorrhage from a varicose vein. There was nothing to be seen on the body but a minute hole, surrounded by apparently healthy skin. Water injected into the vena cava readily flow^ed out through the aperture. On injecting the specimen and dis- secting it, a large mass of tortuous veins was found (Fig. 426), but the hjBmorrhage had come from a small cutaneous vein which joined the varicose trunk. It had been dilated to the size of a crow-quill, and the cutis covering it was thinned. Varicose veins are very prone to suffer from inflammation and thrombosis. The symptoms are those of phlebitis already described. The inflammation is usually localized. Suppuration occasionally takes place, but spreading phlebitis and embolism are rare complications. After an' attack of phlebitis the vein is often obliterated, and the patient cured of hi.s disc-ase. Fig. 426.—Varicose internal saphe- nous vein with a jjiece of slcin attached, a. A smaU cutaneous vein dilated from which fatal hienioi rhage occurred.