^» DISEASES OF ARTERIES. was attacked with severe pain in the line of the right femoral artery ; the vessel was acutely tender, but there was no redness of tlie skin covering it. The condition was at first limited to a few inches of the artery near' the groin, but gradually extended to the popliteal space and leg. Slight oedema and some swelling of the lymphatic glands became apparent when^'the disease reached the leg. Tlie vessel pulsated forcibly aud there was no thrombosis. The man had some years previously suffered from a similar affection of the opposite leg, and while still under observation, the right brachial and carotid were successively affected. Altogether the second attack lasted over five months. It was not apparently due to syphilis, gout, or rheumatism. From the^ absence of thrombosis it would seem probable that the disease was a periarteritis. CHEONIO INFLAMMATION OF ARTERIES. Chronic Endarteritis, Arteritis Deformans, Atheroma.—This is l)y far the most common disease to which arteries are liable ; in fact, it is veiy rare after middle life to find it completely absent in the larger vessels. It occurs in its most marked form in the aorta and the large arteries of the neck, abdomen, the upper pai'ts of the limbs, and the base of the brain. It is less commonly seen in the smallei- vessels, in which the muscular coat is more fully developed. Chronic endarteritis first appears as pale yellowish patches or streaks, smooth, slightly elevated above the surface, and evidently seated in the deeper layers of the inner coat. They are irregular in outhne, their long- diameter is usually in the line of the vessel's course, but they show a special predilection for the mouths of the branches leaving the main trunk, round which they form annular elevations. Their outline subsequently be- comes more irregular by the coalescence of neighbouring patches. As the disease ad- vances, the patches become more elevated, often reaching a line or more in thickness. At this stage they are grey, semi-trans- parent or opalescent, and inelastic, some- times almost cartilaginous in appearance and consistence. This condition is, however, speedily followed, before the patches have reached more than half an inch in diameter, by a change to an opaque yellow colour, the altera- tion in tint commencing in the central parts. This change is due to fatty degeneration, and is accompanied by some loss of toughness. The further progress may be in one of two directions: the growth may soften and break down; or it may calcify. When softening takes place the patch becomes converted into a pultaceons or cheesy mass, and even sometimes undergoes complete liquefaction into a yellow creamy fluid, which has been mistaken for true pus, and termed an " atheromatous abscess.'' It is this change that led ]''ig. 437.—Atheromatous patch in Aorta. Tlie process has advanced to the for- mation of a so-called "atheromatous ulcer."