spmrmatorbb(i:a : treatment. 1269 continued perseverance in the use of remedies is imperatively necessary In add toTe^ means the cold hip-bath should be assiduously employed^ This he patient should use every night and mornmg ; remain ng^^^^^^^ first for about three minutes, but gi-adually mcreasmg the time of imm^^^^ Til or fifteen. In some cases the cold shower-bath — fhpn should be nreferred. The patient must sleep on a hard mattiess, oe feKverer^^^ ™PP- Some satisfactory mental oocupat.on shou d To proYided, or travelling it possible. These means, useful as fd unctsXiU /rhowever, cure the patient. For this purpose, the loca rr S t must be removed by the application of nitrate of sdver to the nrosta io and bulbous portions of the urethra. It will usually be found that teet arood deal of tenderness in these situations, felt on pressing upon the rrS^im,'or on passing an instrument into the urethra, when, as the pom ertevs the bulb, the patient will suffer much pain. The continuance of this r° ion certaiily keeps up the seminal emissions, and thus maintains the debiUty of the genital organs, and the nervous irritability, that are so charac- teristic of these cases. It may most effectually be remedied by the application of nitrate of silver, as originally recommended by Lallemand. I have employed. Fig. 958.—Syringe-catheter for applying Caustic to the Urethra. with much advantage in such cases, the instrument here figured (Fig. 958). It consists of a silver catheter, having about a dozen minute apertures near the end. In the interior is contained a slender piece of sponge, about two inches long, fixed to the expanded end of a firm stylet that moves with the catheter. The instrument is charged by filling the sponge with some solution of nitrate of silver by withdrawing the stylet. It may then be well oiled ; and, being passed down to the spot to be cauterized, the solution is forced out of the aperture by pushing down the rod, which compresses the sponge. I have found this syringe-catheter far safer and more manageable than Lalle- mand's or any other porte-caustiques that act by protruding a spoon or sponge, which is apt to be grasped by the spasmodic action of the muscles of the part, often being returned with difficulty into the shaft, and not without risk of lacerating the mucous membrane. I generally use a solution of the strength of 5j of the nitrate to an ounce of water ; though sometimes only a half or a third of this strength can be borne. The application usually occasions a good deal of irritation for a time, sometimes even a muco-purulent discharge, and can be repeated only at intervals of from ten days to a fortnight. Any undue amount of irritation, particularly after the application, must be sub- dued by ordinary treatment. After the nitrate of silver has been used two or