i8i PATHOLOGY OF INTRACRANIAL ANEURISM. tion at different periods, the result of some variation in the relative quantities of the different fluids within the skull, or of determination of blood- to the brain. This would be the case more particularly if their elasticity had already been impaired by degeneration or syphilitic disease of their coats. Thus, according to Gull, of 58 cases in which the patient's age is given, only 12 cases appeared in persons under twenty-five, five of the patients being under twenty ; of the remaining 46 cases, 13 occurred in persons under forty; of the remaining 33, 22 were met with between forty and sixty, and 4 in persons above sixty. Of the 58 cases, 35 were males, and 23 females. Church believes that, in the young, intracranial aneurism is due to embolism. The exciting cause of the disease is most commonly involved in obscurity: sometimes it may be traced to a blow on the head, to a fall or con- cussion, or to excess in drinking ; but more frequently the symptoms manifest themselves suddenly, without being in any way attributable to such external influences, and occur in vigorous and apparently healthy persons. Fathologfy.—Intracranial aneurisms are almost always formed by the uniform dila- tation of a limited portion of the artery— the sacculated variety being rarely met with. In the museum of University College there are, however, two specimens of sacculated aneurisms of the cerebral arteries. The coats of the arteries in this situation being very thin, and unprovided with any external fibrous sheath, rupture of the vessel is more common than partial dilatation, when one portion only of the circumference is diseased. Occasionally, the dilatation is fusiform, extending over some length of the artery ; this form is probably confined to the basilar artery (Fig. 480). The disease would appear to be of slow growth, and the sac sometimes becomes filled with laminated coagula so completely as to occlude the artery fi-om which it springs. Gowers arranges the intracranial arteries in the following order as far as their liability to be the seat of aneurism is concerned : middle cerebral, basilar, internal carotid, anterior cerebral, posterior communicating, anterior com- municating, vertebral, posterior cerebral, inferior cerebellar. Aneurisms in the substance of the brain are rare. The size that an aneurism attains m this situation is sometimes considerable : thus, in a case of aneurism of the basilar artery, which occurred some years ago at University CoUege Hospital, the tumour was nearly as large as a walnut ; in another case it somewhat exceeded this size. R. W. Smith, in the DuUm Journal of the Medical Sciences, vol. xxv., mentions a case of multilocular aneurism of the left posterior cerebral artery as large as a small apple ; and Serres one as large as a hen's egg. On the other hand, they occasionally prove fatal by rupture while still of very small size—not larger than a nea or a nut. ^ It is seldom that more than one of the arteries of the brain suffer aneurismal Fig. 480. -Fusiform Aneurism of Basilar Artery laid open.