LIGATURE OF AXILLARY ARTERY. 2T3 There is another complication of axillary aneurism that necessitates imme- diate amputation at the shoulder-joint, whether the subclavian artery have previously been ligatured or not ; it is the case of diffuse aneurism of the axilla, with threatened or actual gangrene of the limb. Ligature of the Axillary Artery.—Should ligature of the axillary artery be required at any time, the vessel may be secured in one of two situations— in the space that intervenes between the lower margin of the clavicle, the pectoralis minor, or in the axilla as it lies on the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. To expose the artery above, the pectoralis minor, the shoulder must be pushed upwards and allowed to fall backwards as far as possible. An incision is then made, slightly curved with its concavity upwards, commencing imme- diately above and internal to the tip of the coracoid process, and terminating immediately below the clavicle, and about one inch from the sterno-clavicular articulation. The skin and fat are divided in the first incision, and the pectoralis major exposed. The fibres of the muscle are separated in the inner end of the wound, and the finger introduced into the space beneath guiding a Pig. 488.—Diagram of Ligature of tlie First Part of the Right Axillaiy Artery, p.m.a. Pectoralis major, the fibres separated in the inner lialf of the wound and divided in the outer; p.iti.i. pectoralis minor; a.t. Acromio-thoracic artery and vein ; a.v. axillary vein ; a. axillary artery ; ii. braoliial plexus. Fig. 489.—Diagram of Ligature of the Axillary Artery in its lower third, c.6. coraco-bracliialis; m.n. median uerve; u.n. ulnar nerve ; i.o.n. internal cutaneous nerve ; v. vein ; u. artery. probe-.pointed bistoury, with which the remainder of the muscle is rapidly divided throughout the whole length of the wound. In doing this, several large branches of the acromio-thoracic artery are divided and must be tied at once. The next rallying-point is the upper border of the pectoralis minor. This must be found by tearing through some loose areolar tissue with the forceps and a steel director, so as not to wound the branches of the acromio- thoracic artery and vein. The cephalic vein lies at the outer angle of the wound, and is usually not seen. When the pectoralis minor is found, it must be drawn downwards with a copper spatula. In so doing, the costo-coracoid membrane beneath which the artery lies is l^rought fully into view. This membrane is seldom sufficiently distinct to be recognized as a definite structure, and it can readily be torn through with a pair of forceps and the steel director.' It IS perforated by the acromio-thoracic artery and vein, and the external anterior thoracic nerve. These will be seen as the areolar tissue is torn through and must be drawn inwards with a blunt hook. In the living body the vein next comes into view, and must be drawn inwards, when the artery will be seen to Its outer side. The needle must be passed from the vein and as near the