33 MUSCULAR TIC. on account of its intimate relation with the wall of the cavernous sinus, has in one case practised avulsion of the fifth nerve from the pons. The nerve was reached by turning down a large temporal flap, cutting away the squamous portion of the temporal bone; opening the dura mater and raising the temporal lobe of the brain with a broad copper retractor. The patient, who was much weakened by the prolonged pain, died of shock seven hours after the operation. Keen has collected 40 cases in which the Gasserian ganglion has been removed up to 1894 ; the table-includes Horsley's case in which the nerve was divided behind the ganglion. Of these cases six were fatal. The desperate condition of a patient suffering from the most severe form of trigeminal neuralgia justifies any operation which, without grave risk to life, offers any reasonable hope of relief. The results of the extreme measures above described have so far been encouraging, although from the extreme difficulties presented they are hardly likely to be undertaken except by the most dexterous operators. There is one form of neuralgia of the dental nerves that is so severe and so persistent in its duration, and so paroxysmal in its attacks, that it constitutes a true Tic. I have most frequently met with it in the lower jaw, and more commonly in women than in men. It occurs in people who have lost teeth ; and the pain, which is excessively acute, commences in the contracted alveoli and the indurated gum covering them. It appears to be owing to the conipression of the terminal branches of the dental nerves by the contraction upon them of the empty alveoli. Taking this view of the pathology of this form of neuralgia, I have treated it by the removal of a portion of the indurated alveolar border and gum. Some years ago I did this by removing a Y-shaped piece of the bone by means of a Hey's saw ; and more recently, I have in addition clipped away the bone by means of cutting pliers. Gros?, who has du-ected attention to this form of neuralgia, uses the pliers only for the removal of the affected bone. In any case it is necessary to cut into, but not through, the body of the bone. By this incision, the dental canal may be opened in the body of the bone, and the nerve destroyed by means of the galvanic cautery. MUSCULAB a?ic. Muscular tic of the face or "histrionic spasm" consists of almost constant twitching of the muscles of the face, sometimes so severe as to mterferewith sleep, and always causing most serious annoyance and discomfort to the patient. During recent years, the facial nerve has been stretched for relief of this affection in several cases. Godlee has collected 13, including 2 of his own. Keen has increased the number to 21. Of these 1, under the care of Southam, remained perfectly well five years after the operation ; 4 were «improved " two years after, and 6 at periods varying from one year to three months ; 1 experienced some relief, and in 6 the operation failed completely. In the remaining 3 the result was not certain. The operation ca,uses at the time complete paralysis of the face, which may last from a few hours to three months according to the force used in stretching, and in every case except Southam's some return of the twitching has taken place when the nerve recovered its function. The operation is performed by makino- a Slightly curved incision immediately behind the ear, reaching from the root vo^T/^ ''^^''^^ ^^^^^ ^"^^ ^ small D