336 DISEASES OF JOINTS. last completely disappears before the enlarging cell-spaces, which then coalesce, and thus there is formed on the surface a layer composed entirely of small round cells identical in appearance with those of ordinary granulation tissue. The homogeneous intercellular substance may then soften and the cells may be cast off into the joiut as pus-cells; or should the disease tend towards recovery, new vessels may penetrate the groups of cells, proceeding from the nearest vascular tissue, and thus a vascular granulation tissue may be formed, which will take part in the processes of repair subsequently to be described. In order to distinguish these three processes from each other, we may term the first, necrosis with disintegration ; the second, ulceration without prolifera- tion ; and the third, ulceration with proliferation. The bones, when exposed by destruction of the cartilages, become affected more or less deeply by the inflammatory process. The changes that occur need no description, as they are identical with those already described in the Chapter on Inflammatory Processes in Bone. They usually assume the form of rarefactive osteitis with suppuration, or simple caries, but if the process be very acute, the inflammatory products in the cancellous spaces may break down into pus before the bony trabeculse have been completely absorbed, and thus portions of the cancellous bone may be cut off from their nutrition and perish, forming sequestra {caries necrotica). In other cases the inflamma- tion in the cancellous spaces may spread rapidly, and diffuse osteomyelitis be set up. This is especially prone to happen when the original inflammation in the joint is septic or infective in character. Causes and Varieties of Acute Arthritis.—Acute aiihritis arises ft'om many different causes, and the course of the disease varies somewhat according to its mode of origin. The following are the chief forms met with in practice :— Traumatic Septic Arthritis.—This arises as a consequence of a pene- trating wound of a joint, with admission of impure air and subsequent decom- position of the discharges. It rapidly terminates in suppuration, and in many cases leads to complete destruction of the articulation. It has been fully described under Injuries of Joints (Yol. T., p. 510). Acute Infective Arthritis.—Acute inflammation of one or more joints is a common local effect of more than one general infective process. It is met with in pysemia arising from wounds, in puerperal fever, scarlet fever, small-pox, and sometimes after typhoid fever. These are probably closely alhed if not identical conditions, the general infection taking place from the placental surface in puerperal fever, from the ulcerated throat in scarlet fever from the pustules in small-pox, and from ulcers in the mtestmes m typhoid fever, just as, in ordinary pyasmia, it takes place from the unhealthy wound. Pysemic arthritis begins suddenly, with very acute superficial pam. It differs from many other forms of acute arthritis in the rapid effusion mto the jmnt which occurs at the commencement of the attack. It thus resembles simple acute synovitis in giving rise to a swelling, which at first assumes the outline of the distended synovial membrane. If the patient die at this stage, the ioint will be found to have undergone but little change, the synovial membrane is injected, and the fringes swollen, and the cavity of the articulation contams a quantity of thin pus mixed with synovia. If the patient, ho^^^ver, survive more than a few days after the joint has become affected, the mflamniatioii extends to the ligaments, destruction of the cartilages commences, and the case