163 TREATMENT OF INNOMINATE ANEURISM. lliiids. I have never seen it occur without having been preceded by dyspnoea ; and, in every instance that has fallen under my observation, it has been asso- ciated with laryngeal dyspnoea. The ooincideuce of these two symptoms is readily explained by the anatomy of the parts ; the recurrent nerve, lying between the sac and oesophagus, must suffer compression before the mucous canal can be interfered with. Peogxosis.—The prognosis of innominate aneurism is in the highest degree unfavourable, though the disease frequently does not run a rapid course. If it extend upwards and outwards, the tumour may attain a very large size before any very important organ or part is implicated ; but if it press back- wards and inwards, it may prove fatal at an early period. I know of only one case of spontaneous cure (reported by J. Ogle), and but few instances in which rupture of the sac has taken place. The most frequent cause of death is asphyxia, from spasmodic closure or paralysis of the larynx induced by pres- sure on the recurrent nerve ; or from pressure on the trachea. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of in- nominate aneurism is usually suffici- ently easy, if attention be paid to the symptoms that have just been detailed. But at times the difficulty is so great as to baffle the most sagacious Physicians and most experienced Surgeons ; that which has during life been considered to be an aneurism of the innominate artery, having, after death, proved to be one of the summit of the aortic arch rising up into the root of the neck behind the right sterno-mastoid, or overlapping the innominate trunk. The task of overcoming this difficulty in diagnosis must be left to the skill of the Surgeon. But it is impossible to over- estimate its importance, when the question of ligaturing the arteries at the root of the neck for a supposed innominate aneurism is considered ; for, in at least three cases in which this operation has been done, the arch of the aorta has been found to be the seat of disease, the innominate in two of the cases being unaffected by aneurism. I am acquainted also with a fourth case, in which the operation was commenced, but was abandoned, as the subclavian could not be reached ; the patient dying a few days afterwards, the aneurism was found to be aortic, rising up into the root of the neck, the innominate being sound. Treatment.—There are several instances on record in which a properly conducted course of constitutional treatment has cured the patient: thus a case of Luke's was permanently cured by small and repeated bleedings, con- joined with the administration of digitalis. In connexion with such treat- ment, distal pressure may be employed, as in a case that derived benefit from this plan in Syme's hands. In aneurism of the innominate, the vessel is so short, and the sac so situated, that It IS impossible to attempt to apply a ligature on the cardiac side of the Fig. 470.—Aneiirisni of the Innoinin.ate Artery comi))-essing and .stretching the Recurrent La- ryngeal Nerve, and puslung the Trachea to tlie Left Side. (Bade View.) M 2 I