462 DISEASES OE THE EOOT. results. Even when the cuboid is extensively implicated as well, and the calcaneo-cuboid articulation is the scat of disease, the disorganized structures may often be removed by gouging and partial resection, as in the case of which Ing. ',m 18 a good representation, where, by means of a I-shaped incision, these bones were exposed, and their carious portions gouged out hhould, however, the caries have adected the siqierior or ankrior portions of the hone, then the implication of the astragalar or cuboid articulations may render the excision of the whole bone necessary, as the only means of prevent- mg extension of secondary mischief to the tarsus generally. So unfrequent, however, is disease of the articular aspects of this bone, that its complete removal is very seldom necessary, and out of at least fifty cases of caries of the OS calcis that have been under my care, I have had occasion to excise the whole bone only once. The large size of the bone, its importance as a basis of support to the body and as the point of attachment of the strong muscles of the calf, should induce the Surgeon, whenever practicable, to avoid its complete' extirpation, and to limit himself to the application of the gouge or sharp spoon, even though he may have to scoop out the whole of the interior of the bone, leaving little more than an osseous shell. This will fill up with dense fibroid tissue, which will probably eventually undergo partial ossification, and leave the foot as useful as ever. Excision of the Os Calcis may readily be performed in the following way. The patient lying on his face, a horseshoe incision is carried from a little in front of the calcaneo-cuboid articulation round the heel, along the sides of the foot, to a corresponding point on the opposite side. The elhptical flap thus formed is dissected up, the knife being carried close to the bone, and the whole under surface of the os calcis thus exposed. A perpendicular incision, about two inches in length, is then made behind the heel in the mid-line and into the horizontal one. The tendo Achillis is next detached from its insertion with the periosteal elevator and the two lateral flaps are raised, if possible with the periosteum, by means of the elevator, aided if necessary by the knife (Fig. 594). The knife is then carried over the upper and posterior part of the os calcis, the articulation is opened, the interosseous ligaments are divided, and then, by a few touches with the point, the bone is detached from its connexions with the cuboid. This bone, together with the astragalus, must then be examined ; and, if any disease be met with, the gouge should be applied. Should anky- losis have taken place between the os calcis and the astragalus, the bones may readily be divided by means of a saw. By this operation all injury to the sole is avoided ; and the dependent angle of the wound affords good drainage. The drawing (Fig. 595) gives an excellent representation of the state of the foot of a girl before and after the excision of a diseased os calcis—a somewhat flattened but most useful foot resulting. OUier's Method.—Oilier has described a mode of removing the os calcis somewhat different from the above. An incision, commencing on the outer side of the tendo Achillis, at least an inch above the level of the tip of the external malleolus, is carried down as far as the external tuberosity of the os calcis, and thence horizontally along the side of the foot as far as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone. The flap being raised, the periosteum and the tendo Achillis are separated from the bone, which is then further denuded of its periosteum ns far as can be reached, the ligamentous attachments are divided, and the bone