STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. 312 TUMOURS OF BONE. Exostosis.—By exostosis is meant the growth of a bony tumour from some of the osseous structures of the body. The causes that immediately give i-ise to this disease are usually extremely obscure. There can be no doubt that in some instances it is hereditary ; but, in general, it occurs without any appreciable exciting cause. It is met with chiefly in the young, developing alDOut the age of puberty. p]xostosis appears to originate in two ways : being either primarily formed as true bone developing from periosteum, or being the result of the ossification of a chondroma. Exostoses are of two kinds—the one hard and compact, the other softer and more spongy. The hard, or Ivory Exostosis, is rarely multiple. It is developed from fibrous tissue, but in structure differs both in appearance and composition from normal bone. It is extremely compact and white, having a section closely resembling that of ivory, but possessing a true bony structure, Haversian canals, lacunse, and lamella. In chemical composition, it is found to differ from healthy bone in containing more of the phosphate and less of the carbonate of hme, and also in the proportion of organic matter being smaller. This kind of exostosis grows principally from the flat bones and lower jaw, and, as it is generally of small size, seldom produces much in- convenience, unless it compresses important parts.. Thus, Cloquet relates the case of a tumour of this kind growing from the pubic bone, and perforating the bladder ; and it is occasionally found to project into the orbit, or from the inner table of the skull, upon the brain. When an ivory exostosis is left to itself, it may become stationary after a time. In some instances it has been known to necrose, and to slough away, as it were, from the parts in which it has been situated. Of this termination Hilton and Boyer have related instances. The Spongy or Cancellous Exostoses grow more rapidly, often attain a considerable size, and are not uncommonly multiple. When multiple, they may be symmetrical in their arrangement, and they are occasionally hereditary through several generations. Exostoses of this form are developed from cartilage. They commence almost invariably at the line of junction of an epiphysis with the shaft, and usually before puberty. When they appear ac a later period it has been suggested that they arise from a portion of the cartilage of the epiphysis that has escaped ossification. When growing they are covered with a thin layer of cartilage, but should this become completely ossified, growth ceases and the tumour remains stationary. They are then composed of a thin layer of compact tissue surrounding ordinary cancellous bone ; opposite the base of the tumour the normal compact tissue is want- ing, so that the cancellous tissue of the tumour is continuous wdth that of the bone from which it is growing. The exostoses of young subjects thus frequently cease to increase when general growth comes to an end. Those commencing after that time show more continuous growth, and more urgently require surgical interference. Spongy exostoses are usually pedunculated; they are irregularly lobulated on the surface, sometimes resembling the head of a cauliflower. A bursa not unfrequently develops in the superficial tissues covering them. Their most common seats are the lower end of the femur, the upper end of