TUBERCLE OF THE BLADDER. S douched over the hips and loins with cold water. In some cases these I b?d con^^^^^^^^ in women appear to be connected with some local irntation Tout the urethra or uterus ; and then proper treatment must be directed to thpse oro-ans before the disease can be removed. Pain?rConditions of the Bladder.-The bladder may be the seat of sevei^ pain, either continuous or remittent, without any disease being d 1- coverabl in it; the pain being either a kind of neuralgic condition, especia y occurring in h;sterical or hypochondriacal patients ; or else being sympathetic wTth and dependent on, disease at a distance, as in the kidneys, uterus, rectum &c At the same time it must be borne in mind that the secretion of ac^d or'irritating urine will, in some individuals, be a source of much constant suffering ; and that any disease seated about, or commg mto contact with the neck of the bladder, as tumour, stone, &c., is especially apt to give rise to severe suffering, and will, in many cases, be accompamed by frequent desire to micturate, with much spasm about the part. aJUBERCLE OF THE BLADDER. Tuberculous Disease of the bladder appears to be rarely primary. It is usually an extension from similar disease of the kidney and ureter, or of the prostate, and is not uncommonly met with as part of a general tuberculous affection of the genito-urinary tract. Even in cases in which all the symptoms during hfe are referable to the bladder, post-mortem examination will usually reveal the existence of tuberculous deposits elsewhere, especially in the prostate. The disease shows a special tendency to affect the parts about the trigone. It is rarely that the disease is seen in its earliest stages, when small granulations are present in the mucous membrane. Ulceration soon occurs, and in addition the signs of chronic cystitis become more or less marked. The ulcers are usually small and rounded or oval; the edges are slightly raised, and the surface is yellow and granular. Occasionally a single ulcer of considerable size is met with. The ulceration is usually superficial, and perforation of the bladder is rare. In the advanced stages of the disease the ulceration often extends to the neck of the bladder and the prostatic portion of the urethra. Symptoms.—Tuberculous disease of the bladder has been met with at all ages, but it is most common in young adult males. The onset is often extremely insidious, and the only symptom in the early stages may be increased frequency of micturition. This may be so marked that care must be taken not to mistake it for incontinence, especially when the disease occurs in children. Hsematuria i^ frequently an early symptom, and thus at this stage the disease may possibly be confounded with stone or tumour of the bladder. Tuffier, writing in the " Traite de Chirurgie " of Duplay and Reclus, points out that the haemorrhage may be distinguished from that due to stone by its