i62 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. by the pressure-effects of the tumour upon the neighbouring parts, affecting the pulse, the venous circulation, the nerves, respiration, and deglutition. The Pulse is usually influenced, being much smaller and feebler in tht radial artery of the affected than in that of the sound side, and in some instances being completely arrested ; owing, doubtless, to pressure on or occlusion of the subclavian. The pulsation in the right carotid and its branches is ulso frequently much less powerful than in the opposite vessel. These signs commonly occur before any external tumour is seen or can be felt, and hence constitute an important clement in the early diagnosis of the disease. Enlargement of the Superficial Veins of the neck and right uppei- extremity is of frequent occurrence, the external jugular being the vessel that is usually first evidently dilated; at a more advanced period the superficial subcutaneous veins of the upper part of the right side of the chest often become tortuous and form a dense plexus in this situation, while many anastomose with the cephalic and thoracic veins above, and the superficial epigastric below. As the pressure increases, oedema commences in the right eyelids and hand, and may speedily extend to the whole of the head, face, and arm, M'hich become hard and brawny in consequence of serous infiltration. In one instance I have seen the left arm suddenly become oedematous, the left inuominate vein being pressed upon. In these cases the eyes become staring and prominent, and the hps, nose, and other features livid and turgid with blood, as well as oedematous, so as greatly to alter the expression of the countenance. Pain of a dull aching character is felt in the situation of the tumour, fi-om the compression of the neighbouring structures. But in the later stages of the disease the patient often experiences sharp shooting pains resembling those of rheumatism or neuralgia, in the arm and the side of the head and face, arising from pressure upon, and irritation of, nerves of the cervical and brachial plexuses. Taking the course of the ascending and descending filaments of the cervical plexus, the pain shoots up the side of the head and neck, and over the shoulder and upper part of the chest; or, from pressure upon the brachial plexus, it radiates down the hand and arm, beinjr usuaUy especially severe about the elbow and fingers. The muscular power of the right arm also commonly becomes impaired. Persistent dilatation of the vessels, with sweating of one side of the face, occasionally occurs from pressure on the sympathetic. Dyspnoea is of very common occurrence, and of very varymg degrees ot intensity, from slight difficulty in breathing up to fatal asphyxia. It muy proceed either frona compression of the recurrent nerve, or from pressure ou the trachea When it depends on the former condition, the voice is hoarse, husky, or whispering ; and there is a dry, croupy, and paroxysmal cough, usually accompanied by expectoration of thin frothy mucus. In these cases, after death, the right recurrent nerve will be found to be stretched out and o-reatly elongated by the pressure of the tumour (Fig. 470). Compression of the trachea, which becomes flattened and curved over to the left side by the pro- trusion of the tumour, is a common cause of dyspnoea, and is not unfrequeutlj associated with pressure on the recurrent nerve. More rarely by far, the right bronchus is compressed by the extension of the tumour downwards. Dysphagia is of sufficiently frequent occurrence, and varies from sligb uneasiness in deglutition to an impossibility of swallowing anythmg except