BUNION. lecorded in Avhicli fluctuating tumours, containing serous fluid, have been met w itli in tlie groin, and have been supposed to have arisen in this way. These tumoui-s are deeply seated, and closely resemble psoas abscesses ; whilst the flexion of the thigh, which relieves the tension of the swelling, may suggest I he existence of disease of the hip-joint. The true nature of these swellings in be ascertained only by the use of the aspirator. They must be treated 111 the principles already laid down. The frequent communication of this iirsa with the hip-joint must be borne in mind; it probably explains the ( casional invasion of the joint by a psoas abscess, and vice versd, the formation f a psoas abscess as a result of disease of the joint. The Bursae in the Ham, especially that between the inner head of the ustrocnemius and the semimembranosus not unfrequently become enlarged, lieir walls become slightly thickened, but melon-seed bodies or solid alargement are rare. The distended bursa forms a fluctuating swelling, \vhich becomes tense during extension of the joint and lax during flexion. There may be some slight pulsation communicated from the popliteal artery, lid the swelling may thus resemble an aneurism, but the pulsation is not xpansile, and the tumour does not diminish in size on compressing the femoral iirtery. Sometimes by firm pressure the cyst may be made partially to empty itself into the knee, the signs of fluid in the joint then becoming apparent. Tliese enlarged bursas in the ham usually cause but little pain. The skin ivering the swelhng is normal in appearance. The Treaimeiit must be inducted with caution, owing to the close proximity, if not actual communi- ition, of the bursal tumour with the joint. In many cases a cure can be i)fcained by fixing the knee with a splint or in plaster of Paris, producing )unter-irritation with blisters or iodine, and then applying an elastic bandage. [■ this fail, aspiration followed by pressure may be tried ; if that is not Miccessful, injection with iodine may cure the disease. With strict antiseptic precautions, drainage or excision may be practised in cases resisting tlie simpler methods of treatment. The risk of drainage is that a sinus may persist, f lirough which the knee-joint is likely to become infected. In excising these iirsa3—and it is the large one on the inner side which has chiefly been treated I this way—the cyst should be separated as completely as possible, and the ■dicle ligatured with silk before it is divided. The Bursa beneath the Tendo Achillis at the heel is sometimes diseased. It forms a fluctuating swelling on each side of the tendon, and may simulate 'lisease of the ankle-joint. The treatment presents nothing peculiar. Bunion. Hallux Valgus.—When the bursa which lies towards the I'lantar surface of the head of the first metatarsal bone becomes enlarged, or hen a new sac is formed upon the inner aspect of the bone, the disease Tmeda Umion occurs. The enlargement of the bursa is usually secondaiy ) an alteration in the shape and position of the great toe. The displacement ikes place at the metatarso-phalangeal joint, the great toe lying over or iider the contiguous toes, and a prominent angle being formed between the metatarsal bone and the phalanx (Fig, 614). In the majority of cases the ■formity is the result of the pressure of narrow-pointed boots ; in some instances it is due to arthritis deformans, with alteration in the shape of the ones. The skin covering the prominent metatarso-phalangeal joint becomes ' liickened, and the bursa which is there naturally becomes enlarged or an 'Iventitious one fonns. As the result of repeated irritation, acute'inflam-