1282 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. ha3movrhaoe, and a stout pin (Fig. 9G2) is then passed through each broad ligament and through the uterine tissues immediately above the constrictii.Ir loop, before cuttin<>- away the mass of the tumour together with the appendam-s' After this has been done, the distal portion of the uterine stump is carefullv trimmed down, and the edges of its peritoneal investment including those Jf the divided broad ligaments on either side, are laced together across its upner surface by means of a continuous silk suture in order to prevent subsequent retraction. While these steps are being taken, the constricting wire should be further tightened by an occasio.nal turn of the screw. The abdominal panetes are now adjusted carefully around the uterine stump supported exterufdly by the transfixing pin, and the divided edges of the peritoneum are then united immediately behind the pedicle by a silk suture which also includes a small fold of the serous membrane covering the posterior aspect of the cervix uteri below the level of the wire ; by thus ensuring early adhesion between the serous surfaces referred to, the general peritoneal cavity is in great measure protected from infection through the strangulated tissues. All sponges are now removed from the abdomen with the exception of a flat one which serves to protect the cavity during the insertion of the sutures ; after its removal, the incision is closed and the wire is finally tightened again. Fig. 962.—Transfixing Pin for Uterine Stump. The uterine stump, having been well dusted with iodoform powder, is then packed round with pledgets of dry absorbent gauze, and the abdomen is covered witn a dry dressing of some antiseptic material, to be kept in place by strapping and a flannel binder. If all go well, this dressing need not be disturbed for a week, at the end of which time all dressings should be removed and the distal portion of the stump trimmed down to the level of the pin. One of two methods may now be adopted : the serre-noeud may be daily tightened up until the wire finally cuts its way through the constricted tissues ; or the wire may at once be clipped through at its point of attach- ment, so as to allow of the withdrawal of the serre-noeud ; the transfixing pin is cut out from the face of the stump, and the expanded wire loop is then readily removed, leaving a slough which gradually separates in the course of from three to four weeks, as the cavity heals by granulation. In the class of cases above referred to, as characterized by the presence of multiple growths involving the lower segment of the uterus, and expanding one or both broad ligaments, the operative details are necessarily much more complicated :—The ovarian vessels (artery and venous plexus) in each broad ligament are first to be secured in their continuity by a ligature of Avhich the ends are afterwards cut short. If the bladder be drawn up over the fi'ont of the tumour, its upper attachment should be freed by a horizontal incision through the serous coat of the uterus, in order that the viscus may be peeled downwards sufficiently to allow of the application of an elastic ligature around