1007 STONE IN THE KIDNEY. capsule and the indurated perinephritic fat (Fiff. 834). Fluctuation is often distinctly perceptible. If the disease be allowed to progress unrestrained by treatment, the dilated pelvis or the thickened cortex may give way, and a Perinephritic Abscess form. The pus then gradually points towards the surface in the loin, but before doing so it may extend widely, from the ihac fossa to below the ribs. In other cases rupture into the colon may take place Symptoms.—The passage of a calculus along the ureter, if it be of sufficient size to offer resistance, is accompanied by the symptoms of Renal Colic. There is intense paroxysmal pain which shoots from the lom downwards to the groin, and usually into the spermatic cord and testicle of the same side In many cases it radiates into the inner side of the upper part of the thigh of the same side. There is retrac- tion of the testicle and sometimes much nausea or actual vomiting, and faintness with profuse sweat- ing. During the attack there is irritability of the bladder, and blood is often present in the urine. Sudden relief is experi- enced as the stone enters the bladder. The stone may be passed by the urethra often with considerable pain and irritation. The symptoms due to the presence of a calculus in the kidney vary greatly, and stones of consider- able size, which were altogether unsuspected during life, are some- times found post mortem. In cases of renal calculus unac- companied by suppuration the two most important symptoms are pain and h£em.aturia. The pain is usually referred to the loin, but occasionally it radiates downwards in the line of the ureter or to the testicle, and in some cases repeated attacks of renal colic result from the entry of the calculus into the upper end of the ureter. The pain may extend to the thigh and may even be referred to the leg or to the sole of the foot. The pain is sickening in character and variable in intensity. It is in most cases distinctly aggravated by movement. In some cases walking gives most uneasiness, apparently from the movement of the muscles upon which the kidney lies. In other cases walking causes but little pain, while jolting of any kind causes intense suffering. In other cases any kind of movement is almost unbearable. In very rare instances the pain has been referred to the kidney of the opposite side. There may be acute tender- ness on pressure over the affected kidney ; but in. this stage of the disease no enlargement is to be recognized. Frequency of micturition may or may not be present. In some cases it forms one of the most prominent symptoms, so much so that the case may be mistaken for one of disease of the bladder. The urine almost always contains a trace of blood to be recognized by the micro- scope, and occasional attacks of profuse hsematuria are common, most fre- quently brought on by violent movement. In the early stages pus ig absent. Fig. 834.—Kidney removed for Calculous Pyelitis. The figures point to six separate calculi.