DISEASES OF JOINTS. 344 Ill 72 cases examined by Kouig tuberculous tissue was found in 07, and in the remaining five the material for examination was deficient, so tliat no conclusion could be arrived at as to its presence. Croft and Greenfield and other observers agree as to the constancy of tlie presence of tubercle. The statistics of white swelling show moreover that in a very large pro- portion of fatal cases death takes place from general tuberculosis. Albrecht has published some statistics, in which it is shown that, out of 1:55 fatal cases, in 64 death occurred from tuberculosis. If further proof be needed, the characteristic lesions have been produced by the injection of tuberculous material or of pure cultivations of the tubercle bacillus into the joint-cavities of annuals, and in a few recorded cases by accidental inoculation of a joint in the human subject. Of this last occurrence Pfeiffer's well-known case is a good example. A veterinary surgeon wounded the joint of his thumb in dissecting a tuberculous cow. The puncture healed, but soon the joint became enlarged, and the patient died of phthisis eighteen months after the injury. Examination of the joint showed well-marked destructive changes ; whilst the diseased, tissues presented the characteristic lesions of tubercle and contained tubercle bacilli in abundance. It will be convenient to consider first the anatomical changes met with in the chief varieties of tuberculous joint disease and then to describe the clinical features presented by the disease in its difiPerent stages. Fathological Anatomy.—If those unusual cases are excluded in which tubercle of a joint occurs secondarily to disease of neighbouring bursse or tendon sheaths, two chief varieties need consideration—first, primary tuber- culosis of the synovial membrane, and secondly, primary tuberculosis of the articular extremity of a bone with secondary invasion of the joint-cavity. Although in the later stages the disease tends to affect all the articular structures, so that it may be impossible to determine its exact starting-point, yet the division is a practical one, and the two varieties will be described separately. Primary Tubercle of the Synovial Membrane.—The pathological changes have been very accurately described by Billroth, Konig, Cheyne and others. In the earliest stages that have been observed, the synovial fringes are swollen and the membrane is generally thicker than natural, and hypersemic. Th( re is, as a rule, no increase of secretion, but the synovia is often slightly turbid. As the disease advances, the synovial membi-ane becomes thicker and more vascular, its natural smooth surface is lost, and soft spongy granulations spring up upon it, the deeper parts becoming dense and fibrous. This change is especially marked in the synovial fringes. These form soft masses of granu- lation tissue which fill up the angles between the articular surfaces and gradually creep over the cartilages. In some instances grey granulations can be seen scattered through the granulation tissue. Where two granulating synovial surfaces are in contact, as in the pouches of the knee-joint, the}- coalesce, and thus the cavity of the joint gradually becomes obliterated. It is in consequence of this limitation of the disease to the synovial membrane in the early stages, that the swelling of the joint, observed clinically, takes the form of the distended articular cavity, as in simple synovitis with effusion. As the disease advances, the chronic inflammation extends to the ligaments and capsule, which become infiltrated with the inflammatory products, and swollen and lardaceous in appearance ; and later on the areolar tissue sur- rounding the joint is similarly affected. It is owing to this that the swollen