6s6 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE NOSE. is fixed by sutures. An accurate pattern of tlie raw sui-faco to l)e covered ig then taken, and a flap of skin is raised from the forearm corresponding in shape but a little larger to allow for shrinking. The under surface of tho°iap is then fi-eed from every vestige of subcutaneous tissue with a pair of flat sharp scissors, so as to have a white appearance. It is then applied to the raw surface and united to the surrounding skin by fine silk sutures. A dressinfr of warm wet boric acid lint may then be applied and covered by guttif- percha tissue and cotton-wool. About a fortnight after the operation, after the flap has become firmly adherent, the sutures uniting the lids may be I Pig. 703.—Lower Eyelid deformed by Cicatrix. Fig. 704.—Lower Eyelid after Operation. removed and the eye allowed to open. In a case successfully operated on by Wolfe, the oval piece of skin transplanted measured two inches by one and a quarter. It united by first intention, without even desquamation of the cuticle taking place. m PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE NOSE. Rhinoplastic Operations are undertaken for the restoration of a part of the nose which has been destroyed by injury or disease. This branch of plastic surgery has long received much attention, and has been reduced to definite rules. Either the entire nose, or a portion of it, may require restoration. Columna.—When the column a and a portion of the septum are destroyed, a large gap is left at the nasal aperture ; and, the nose becoming flattened in consequence of its tip falling in, great deformity necessarily results. The upper lip also, losing that amount of support which it receives from the columna, becomes pendulous, projecting, and thickened. The restoration of the columna is effected from the upper lip, which, by being reduced in size, is rendered more shapely. The operation consists in cutting through the whole lip from above downwards on each side of the mesial line, so as to leave a tongue about one-third of an inch in width. This is then turned up ; and its fi-ee end being well pared, and the under surface of the tip of the nose properly freshened, it is fixed by means of a fine hare-lip pin and twisted suture, which should be left in for about four days. Union takes place in a few days ; but until this is firm, the new columna must be properly supported with narrow strips of plaster fixed to the cheek on each side. No twisting of this small flap is required, as the mucous surface speedily becomes cutaneous, and vice versa. The division in the upper lip must be treated in the same way as an ordinary hare-lip, and unites without difficulty, lessening greatly the deformity in this part. Ala.—When one ala only is deficient, the rest of the nose being sound, one