1 VOLVULUS. 897 peritoneal pouches. Among- the hitter, which have been carefully studied by Treves, are the fossa duodeno-jejunalis, the ileo-c0ecal fossse, and the inter- sigmoid fossa. The fossa duodeno-jejunalis is a pocket, which, when present, lodges the bend formed by the junction of the duodenum and jejunum. It is bounded in front by a fold of peritoneum, with a free hori- zontal upper border. A hernia into this pouch forms the " retroperitoneal^ or mesenteric hernia " of Astley Cooper. In this way an enormous sac, containing all the small intestines except the duodenum, may occupy the centre of the abdomen. The intersigmoid fossa hes in the left wall of the sigmoid meso- colon ; it is directed downwards and to the left, and the fold which bounds it is caused by the sigmoid artery, which lies above and to the right of the pouch. [A strangulated sigmoid hernia has been met with by Lawrence and Eve. I Special Symptoms of Internal Strangulation.—Internal strangulation gives rise to the most typical cases of acute obstruction. It is slightly more common in males than in females, and occurs most frequently between the ages of 20 and 40. In a considerable proportion of cases there is a previous history of peritonitis, or of obscure abdominal pains, and, in a smaller proportion, of previous attacks of partial obstruction. The onset is ^almost always sudden, the patient being able to tell the exact time at which he was seized with the symptoms. In a considerable proportion of cases there is some apparent immediate cause, sach as running or jumping, straining at stool, or a violent action of the bowels, either as the eflFect of a purgative or from diarrhoea. The pain is usually severe and griping, and most commonly referred, as in ordinary strangulated hernia, to the region of the umbilicus. The vomiting sets in early, very speedily becomes stercoraceous, and is often very abundant. Constipation is complete, and there is no sense of a desire to go to stool. There is prostration from a very early period, and collapse sets in rapidly. The temperature is seldom raised ; much more commonly it is sub- normal. Owing to the profuse vomiting and the rejection of all fluids taken by the mouth there is intense thirst, and the urine becomes very scanty. On examination of the abdomen at first there may be no distension, and it is ]30ssible sometimes to recognise fulness and some tenderness at the seat of the strangulation. Later on more or less distension sets in, but it is not usually very excessive. Dilated coils of intestine may be recognised if the patient is thin, but no peristaltic movements are visible except in very rare cases. Percussion as a rule gives a uniform tympanitic resonance over the whole abdomen. Cases of internal strangulation, if left to nature, very rarely recover. Yet it occasionally happens that the obstruction, even when of the most acute •■'character, may give way. Almost invariably, however, the symptoms continue, the prostration increases, the extremities become blue and cold, the pulse more rapid and feeble, respiration shallow and hurried, and death takes place usually under a week, the patient retaining consciousness to the last. If the strangu- ;lation is very intense the ordinary symptoms of peritonitis may develop as i.flgangrene of the gut commences, but more commonly the gut is not held ■'sufficiently tight to cause complete arrest of circulation, and peritonitis is wanting to the end. 2. Volvulus.—A twist of the intestine may occur in three ways. The gut IS, in very rare cases, twisted on its own longitudinal axis ; much more com- monly a long loop is twisted on its mesenteric axis; and again, very rarely, the