LIGATURE OF COMMON CAROTID. 173 common sheath must be opened well to the inner side, as the compartment for the vein is much larger than that for the artery, and occupies the greater part of the anterior aspect of the sheath which is exposed in the operation. After opening the common sheath, the special sheath of the areolar tissue surrounding the artery must be carefully divided until the white external coat comes into view. The needle is then passed from without inwards (Fig. 475), between the special sheath and the external coat, through the loose areolar tissue naturally found in this situation. If the vessel be properly cleaned, it is almost impossible to wound the vein or pick up the nerve. If, however, the wrong compartment of the common sheath be opened, or the special sheath not properly divided, either of these accidents may happen. Almost all the accidents which may happen in ligature of the carotid arise from one or two causes, either drifting too far outwards in the deeper parts of the incision, or not cleaning the vessel sufficiently before passing the needle. In cases of dens noni nerve. Tlieimeiiinogastricis !• ig. 47.5.—Incision for Ligature of the C'aiotid Ai-tery. not seen, as it lies behind the vessels. aneurism the diificulty is often increased by the proximity of the sac, and sometimes by inflammatory thickening of the sheath. In women the edge of the thyroid body may overlap the artery, and present a somewhat puzzling appearance when exposed. In performing the operation subcutaneous vessels are occasionally wounded, which may bleed rather freely ; the small sterno-mastoid artery also may require to be ligatured. If the outer compart- ment of the sheath is accidentally opened, the jugular vein swells up so as to obscure the artery, but all difficulty from this source will cease if it be drawn aside by a retractor, or repressed by the assistant's linger. When this happens, it must not be forgotten that the septum of the common sheath, and the special sheath of the artery, have both to be divided befoi-e passing the needle. The pneumogastric nerve should never be seen, as it lies deeply behind the vessels.