HMMATURIA. "35 .vhich had to be stripped off part of the portion removed. Such proceedings ^^^Th^r^^^^^^^^^ carefully selected cases of tumour of th. bladder hive been on'the whole satisfactory. Hurry Fenwick has recorded ho results of his first 40 operations undertaken for the remova of tumours ^f the bladder diagnosed to be present by means of the cystoscope. In one case 0 actual tumo°ur was foundf and in another no attempt was n-de ^ ^^^^^^ It In 38 cases a tumour was removed. In 3 cases death was directly due to the operation; in 2 cases of carcinoma recurrence occuiTed withm three months and proved fatal, and in 4 cases a second operation was per- formed for recurrence. The remaining 27 cases were m good health when the report was made, in one case four years havmg elapsed since the operation. HiEMATUEIA. The admixture of blood with the urine may usually be recognized by the colour which it communicates to this fluid. If the blood be in large quantity the urine will be dark brown, chocolate, or maroon-coloured, and will stain red the bottom of the utensil or a piece of white blotting-paper. If it be m smaller quantity, the urine will be brown in varying shades—smoky, or havmg some- thing of the aspect of thin beef-tea ; in other cases it will be little discoloured, but will deposit a red or brown sediment on standing. Under the microscope blood-discs may be detected in large numbers. Heat coagulates the blood into a brownish-grey deposit, leaving a clear supernatant fluid. Microscopic examination should never be neglected in doubtful cases, as by that means small traces of blood may be certainly recognized ; and, moreover, it must be remembered that in the condition known as h^matinuria the urine is^ darkly stained with blood-pigment, but contains no corpuscles. The patient's word that he has passed blood should never be relied upon too implicitly, as high- coloured urine depositing uric acid or urates is often ignorantly supposed to contain blood. Hsematuria may arise from a constitutional condition or from a local cause. When constitutional, it may be the consequence of scurvy or purpura. In these cases it will necessarily be associated with other, and probably marked, evidences of the disease. A form of hematuria, depending on the presence of a parasite—the Bilharzia hcematohia—is prevalent in Africa, and has been ably investigated by Leuckart, John Harley, Cobbold, and others. When arising from local causes, hEematuria is a symptom of disease existing in some part of the urinary apparatus, and it often assumes great importance from the loss of blood induced. Sources.—Hematuria may arise from, 1, the Kidneys ; 2, the Bladder ; 3, the Prostate ; or 4, the Urethra. 1. Hsemorrhage from the Kidneys.—When occurring from the kidneys, the bleeding may be the result of injury, congestion, acute inflammation, or mahg- nant disease of those organs ; of acute, tuberculous, or calculous pyelitis ; or of passage of a calculus down the ureter. The most certain evidence that the blood comes from the kidney is the presence of blood-casts of the renal tubules. The renal congestion may be inflammatory or passive ; in either case the urine will present, after the discharge of blood has ceased, evidences of chronic renal disease in the form of albumen, pus, or casts. When the haemorrhage arises from renal calculus the symptoms described at p. 1007 will be well.