554 DEFORMITIES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. are shortened in this position of the foot are chiefly the tibiah's posticus tibialis anticus, and the muscles of the calf inserted into the tendo Achillis. ' Pathological Anatomy.—A careful study of the changes met with in congenital tali])e8 cMjuino-varus is essential to the proper treatment of the deformity, and our knowledge of this subject has been much increased by the researches of Parker and Shattock. The muscles are healthy unless the case be one of old standing, when they will be found to be atrophied generally from disuse. The directions of the tendons is necessarily altered, and those muscles which are relaxed by the abnormal ])osition of the foot become shortened. Thug the tendo Achillis and the tendons of the tibialis anticus and tibialis posticus become tense when an attempt is made to rectify the position of the foot, but Parker and Shattock have shown that all these may be dissected away, and in fact all the soft parts except the ligaments, without materially diminishing the deformity. The most important fact which we owe to these observers is that the ligaments take the chief share in maintaining the abnormal position of the foot. " The ligaments chiefl.y at fault are those placed on the inner border of the deformed foot, namely, the anterior portion of the internal lateral ligament of the ankle, the astragalo- scaphoid and the calcaneo-scaphoid ligaments, all three being blended together into one indis- tinguishable capsule of great strength." In more severe cases which have been walked upon, the long and short plantar ligaments are shortened, as is also the plantar fascia, and in extreme cases the skin of the sole may be in- sufficient to allow of full extension of the con- tracted arch of the foot. The bones of the foot are not necessarily altered, but various changes Pig. 649.-Bones in Talipes Varus. jn t^e shape of the articular surfaces may result from their altered position. Of all the bones the one which is most commonly altered is the astragalus, the obliquity of the neck being considerably increased, as the result of the inversion of the front part of the foot. The extended position of the ankle-joint leads to an undue extension of the superior articular surface of the astragalus backwards, whilst in front the surface is lessened. If the varus be of old standing, the astragalus will generally be found to be atrophied more particularly about its head, and the navicular and cuboid bones may have suflFered similar changes. Treatment of Congenital Talipes Equino-varus. In the consideration of this subject it is very necessary to distinguish clearly between those methods which are available for ordinary cases in which the treatment is commenced in early infancy, and the more severe measures which may be required in obstmate or neglected cases. In young children extensive operations are rarely necessary, and are usually quite unjustifiable, for with patience excellent results can as a rule be obtained by simple means. Regarding the congenital deformity as the result of prolonged malposition of the foot, the principle of treatment must be the correction of this by manipulation and the use of suitable splints, aided, if necessary, by the division of resisting structures. As soon as possible after birth the treatment