SPECIAL ANEURISMS. limb, without pi-eviouB consolidation of the parts around the artery or any attempt at the formation of a sac. In these cases tiie extravasation into the hmb may either be conjoined with much oedema; or it may be confined to the areolar tissue ot the ham, and to the upper and back part of the le^ or may extend downwards under the muscles of the calf. When the patient com/s under the observation of the Surgeon, the tumour is found to be solid, elastic and irreg^ilais often without pulsation or bruit; the limb ocdematous, cold, and congested. Ihe diagnosis of this form of aneurism is often extremely difficult and there is great danger of confounding it with simple extravasation into the caJt, with abscess, or, possibly, with malignant tumour of the leg. _ Treatment.—The danger attending on popliteal aneurism is greatly increased by its becoming diffused. In these circumstances the ligature of the artery usually affords but a slender prospect of success, the collateral vessels being so compressed and choked by the pressure of the effused blood as not to admit of the circulation being carried on through them; hence the Surgeon has but two courses open to him, to lay the sac open, turn out the clots, and tie the vessel above and below the opening, or to amputate the limb. The Old Operation for Diffused Popliteal Aneurism is undoubtedly a most difficult proceeding, owing to the depth at which the vessel lies and the position of the popliteal vein and the internal popliteal nerve superficial to the sac. In former times it was almost invariably followed by profuse and pro- longed suppuration, and if the patient escaped the danger of secondary hemorrhage, septicemia and pyaemia, he recovered with a stiffened limb, often flexed to a considerable angle by the contraction of the scar in the ham. The operation was, therefore, at one time abandoned in favour of amputation. In the present day, with the help of Esmarch's bandage to render the limb bloodless, and antiseptic treatment, there is no reason why an attempt should not be made to turn out the clots and tie the vessel in every case in which gangrene has not actually set in, and in which the Hunterian operation is evidently inapplicable, but the Surgeon must be prepared to amputate imme- diately should he fail to secure the artery. In opening the sac the incision should be made in such a way as to avoid the vein. When the mouth of the sac is found, a full-sized bougie should be passed into it so as to distend the vessel, making it possible to clean it thoroughly before passing the needle. Amputation for Diffused Popliteal Aneurism is the only resource should the Surgeon fail to accomplish the old operation, or should gangrene already have declared itself. It is often difficult to determine what treatment to adopt in these most anxious cases. There are, however, certain general considerations that may guide the Surgeon in his decision. 1. In some cases, the sac has either given way to a very limited extent; or else its walls, having become thin and expanded, are yielding rapidly under the pressure of the blood, becoming confused with the surrounding parts. Here we should ligature the artery without delay: for although it is but seldom that a limb can be saved when once the blood has become infiltrated into the general areolar tissue, yet it is possible that such a fortunate occur- rence may happen. 2. In other instances the aneurism has not from the first been very dis- tinctly circumscribed. It has followed the infliction of some mechanical injury, and in the course of a week or two has acquired a considerable size, without definite or distinct limitation, being solid or but little compressible.