1266 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. diminution and eventual disappearance under pressure are more gradual an.l there is no reduction of the mass as a whole. ' h. The gradual squeezing out of the contents of a Congenital Hydrocele together with its translucency, and the early age at wiiich it occurs, will establish its true character. It must be remembered, however, that hernise in very young infants may be translucent if the gut contains little or no fffical matter. c. In the Diffuse Hydrocele of the Cord there is a uniform semi-fluctuat- ing swelling in and near the ring ; in which, however, there is no gurglino^, &c., no complete reduction, nor sudden disappearance, as in hernia. It is albo less defined, and has a less distinct impulse on coughing. d. Varicocele may always be distinguished by its pyramidal shape, and its knotted, soft, and irregular feel. After being reduced when the patient lies down, it will, when he stands up, fill again, even though the Surgeon compress the external ring with his fingers. This sign, which distinguishes it from a hernia, occurs also in congenital hydrocele ; from which, however, the varico- cele may be distinguished by the absence of translucency, the want of fluctua- tion, and the general feel of the tumour. i 2. Irreducible Scrotal Tumours are of various kinds : such as Omental Hernia, Hydrocele, Hgematocele, the various forms of Solid Enlargement of the Testicle. These tumours, though presenting certain characters in common, yet differ somewhat in the predominance of particular signs. Thus, the shape of the tumour is usually pyriform in hydrocele, globular in hematocele, and oval in enlargement of the testicle ; though this is subject to much variation. The weight is least in hydrocele and greatest in solid enlargement, propor- tionately to the size of the tumour. The characters of the surface present considerable differences, being smooth and tense in hydrocele and haematocele ; often irregular, hard, or knotted in the other varieties. The rapidity of the formation of the tumour is greatest in hsematocele. a. Irreducible Scrotal Hernia may be recognised by its irregular feel, by its impulse on coughing, by its occupying the canal and concealing the cord, and by the testicle being distinctly perceptible below it. 1). Hydrocele of the Tunica Vaginalis is recognizable by its trans- lucency ; and the amount of opacity conjoined with this will enable the Surgeon to distinguish the degree of enlargement of the testis, which is conjoined with it. c. In Haematocele the tumour is of sudden or rapid formation, somewhat globular, opaque, but not very heavy or hard, and smooth upon the surface. d. In Solid Enlargements of the Testicle the tumour is heavy for its size, fi'equently globular or irregular in shape, sometimes knobbed, and usually attended with a good deal of dragging pain in the groin, and frequently with some enlargement of the cord. In these three forms of scrotal tumour, viz., hydrocele, haematocele, and solid enlargement of the testicle, the diagnosis can always be made at once from hernia, by the Surgeon feeling the cord free above the tumour. The point of most importance in the diagnosis of solid enlargements of the testicle is to distinguish the malignant tumours, sarcoma and cancer, from other forms of disease. In malignant tumours, the rapidity of growth, the softness and elasticity of the mass, the implication of one testis only, and the early enlargement of the cord, with its indurated and knobbed condition, are •