287 CAUSES OF NECROSIS. unfreqnently found lying in the interior of carious or suppurating cavities. Different bones are affected by necrosis with varying degrees of frequency. The tibia at its anterior part is most frequently diseased ; the femur in. its lower third is also very commonly affected. The lower end of the humerus is not so often necrosed ; but not uncommonly the phalanges of the fingers from whitlow, the skull from syphilis, the lower jaw from the emanations evolved in the manufacture of phosphorus matches, and the clavicle and ulna from injury or constitutional causes, are found alfected by necrosis. Causes.—The causes of necrosis are very various. We have just seen that it is Predisposed to by the structure of particular parts of bone, and is more frequent in some bones than in others. Among the constitutional conditions which predispose to it, we must rank in the first line scrofula and syphiHs. The Essential causes of necrosis act locally and may primarily afiect the periosteum, the osseous tissue itself, or the medulla. Affections of Periosteum.—An injury to the bone may cause necrosis by stripping off the periosteum ; but, though the bone thus injured often loses its vitality, yet, if the membrane be replaced, its life may be preserved, and even when the bone is exposed, adhesions may take place between it and the neighbouring soft parts, or granulations may be thrown out by*its surface, which eventually form another periosteurh. Necrosis also fi'equently occurs as the result of the detachment and denudation of a portion of bone in cases of bad compound fracture. Before the age of puberty almost all cases of exten- sive necrosis of the shafts of long bones are the result of acute diffuse periostitis or acute necrosis (see p. 277). Allied to this variety are those cases in which necrosis follows acute specifics, more particularly typhoid and scarlet fevers. Scarlet fever especially is apt to be followed by pains in the leg and about the knee, which at first appear to be of a rheumatic character, but which speedily run into abscess and are attended with all the symptoms of the most acute form of necrosis. Sometimes the death of bone results from the extension of inflammation to it from the neighbouring tissues, as in some cases of whitlow, or from the destruction of its periosteum by a neighbouring abscess. Two of the varieties of syphilitic necrosis must be included under this heading : in one form the periosteum is destroyed by the extension of super- ficial ulceration to it ; in another form necrosis results from the formation of subperiosteal gummata, which finally soften and thus cut ofi" a piece of bone from its vascular supply. The growth of a tumour beneath the periosteum may sometimes cause necrosis in a similar way. Affections of the osseous tissue.—Of these the condition which most commonly leads to necrosis is chronic osteoplastic osteitis with gradual cutting off of the blood supply of the affected area by obHteration of the Haversian canals (p. 262). In this way a third variety of syphilitic necrosis is produced. In cancellous bone necrosis is usually associated with caries, and most commonly arises from chronic inflammation, usually tuber- culous, accompanied by caseation of the inflammatory products by which the vascular supply of the affected area is cut off". The necrosis of the lower jaw which occasionally occurs amongst workers with phosphorus probably results fi-om the direct action of the acrid fumes gaining access to tlie bone through carious teeth.