AFFECTIONS OF EXTERNAL EAR AND MEATUS. 577 tube before described, can then ascertain whether the catheter is in the tube or ' ,t bv blowing some air through it from a small india-rubber bag. Affections op the External Ear and Meatus.—Malformations ot the lobule are not uncommon. Absence of the pinna or such deformity as ompletely to close the meatus has also been met with. Hypertrophy of the xfcernal ear is sometimes met with in idiots ; and in gouty subjects, Tophi Gouty Concretions, are occasionally deposited in it. Paget, Bruck, and \-anzetti have described a Fibrous Tumour that occasionally forms m the lobule of the ear from the irritation produced by piercing it, as " one of the penalties attached to the barbarism of ear-rings." These tumours are .emi-malignant, like the warty growths of cicatrices ; and, after excision— the only treatment—are somewhat apt to return. Bloody Tumours, or Heematomata, are• occasionally developed without apparent cause in the external ear of the insane or idiots, and are not imcommon in other patients as the result of injury. They may attain a large >ize, and are often multiple. Unless they become inflamed, I think it better to leave them untouched, when they will gradually be absorbed. If inflamed, they must be opened. Eczema of the External Ear, sometimes extending into the external meatus, is a common afPection. It occurs in scrofulous children and in gouty adults. The constitutional treatment must be conducted on ordinary , principles ; locally the application of glycerine of borax or of boric acid ; bintment, to which a small quantity of extract of belladonna may be added, will he found most useful. Concretions in the Meatus.—We not uncommonly find that the meatus becomes blocked up by accumulations of wax, dark, indurated, and pipe-hke, 1 or forming balls and masses that lie in contact with the membrana tympani. These are a veiy common source of temporary deafness among young people. They not only materially impair the sense of hearing, but are very apt to give rise to noises in the head, and to crackling sensations on opening and shutting the mouth. Their presence is best ascertained by examination with an ear-speculum. The Treatment of these concretions consists in softening the wax by the introduction of a little glycerine into the ear for a few nights, and then repeatedly washing out the meatus by the injection of tepid soap ' and water, thrown in with a large syringe ; as the fluid regurgitates from the membrana tympani, it will at length bring away dark and hardened <'eruminous masses. Thickening of the Cuticle.—Occasionally the cuticle of the external meatus, and that covering the membrana tympani, becomes thickened and indurated, assuming a dull white appearance. This is commonly a result of eczema, and may give rise to some degree of deafness. In these circum- stances, glycerine, citrine ointment, or solution of nitrate of silver, will be useful in restoring the healthy condition of the part. Boils or Follicular Abscesses are not uncommon in the external meatus. They may arise as a complication of eczema, or as the consequence of irritating <lischarges from the middle ear. The Treatment is to apply hot fomentations to the ear, and, if the boil can be seen, relief may often be given by puncturing 't with a small knife. Diffuse Inflammation of the Meatus or Otitis Externa is most "oramon in children, and may occur from a variety of causes, amongst which VOL. II. p p i