DISEASES OF THE NOSE. 59° cough, megrim, supra-orbital neuralgia, vascular disturbances of the face, vertigo, and it is said even epilepsy. These are said to be always accompanied by hyperiEmia of the excessively vascular tissue which exists in the mucous membrane of the free edges of the inferior and middle turbinate bones. A cure may be effected by the destruction of the swollen mucous membrane with the galvanic cautery, or by the application of a strong caustic, such as chromic acid. There can be little doubt that the frequency'of these reflex neuroses has been greatly exaggerated by some enthusiastic specialists, particu- larly in Germany, but at the same time the evidence that they occasionally occur is practically conclusive. In all cases, therefore, in which the above conditions are met with, the nasal cavities should be examined, and if the mucous membrane covering the margins of the turbinate bones appears swollen or thickened, it may be cauterized with a fair hope of giving relief. Abscess occasionally forms either in the mucous membrane or on the septum, and thus may lead to necrosis of the cartilages and bones, separation of these, flattening of the nose, depression of its bridge, and great deformity. These various forms of abscess, followed by necrosis, are commonly syphilitic, and result from softening gummata beneath the mucous membrane or periosteum, and are associated with ulcers and a foetid discharge, which has a tendency to cake upon the surface, forming dark and rugged crusts, con- stituting the condition known as Syphilitic Ozcena. A similar condition may be met with also without any evidence of syphilitic infection. This most commonly occurs in strumous subjec|:s, and is usually associated with enlargement of the glands at the angle of the jaw. Such a condition would be described as Strumous Ozcena. Ulceration in the nasal cavity may in some cases be consequent upon the irritation of decayed teeth, producing disease of the antrum, and escape of morbid secretion from this into the cavity of the nose. The Treatment of these conditions must be conducted by the use of the nasal douche or spray, followed by the application of solution of nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper or bichloride of mercury, one or two grains to the ounce. The snuff above mentioned will often be found very useful. In extreme cases it may be necessary to destroy the hypertrophied mucous mem- brane covering the inferior and middle spongy bones by the galvanic cautery or by the application of some caustic, chromic acid being one of the best. If this is not successful, a portion of the spongy bones may be removed so as to restore the passage through the nose. In syphilitic cases the general treat- ment of syphilis must be carried out, iodide of potassium or mercury being administered according to the condition of the patient. In strumous cases, codliver-oil and iodide of iron are most useful. When necrosis occurs, it must be treated as described below. Necrosis not unfrequently occurs in the loose bony structures lying m the nasal fosste or in the nasal bones themselves. In these cases the septum nasi participates in the morbid process, and commonly separates or is perforated. Necrosis may occur in these situations either as the result of syphilis, the abuse of mercury, or from external injury. It is also met with in workers with arsenic or chromic salts. I have, however, seen cases, more particularly in women and children, which are not referable to any of these causes, or indeed to any other external exciting cause, and in which scrofula was pro-