HERNIA. 842 from the outer pai-t of the sac into that lying within the cavity of tlie abdomen detfct oT r 7'^ T^r^' ? ' strangulation, which has escapea detection G Rush ton Parker has recorded a case in which apparent reducC was effected by merely forcing the contents back from a small knuckle of ^J mifonnly adherent by recent adhesions to the sac. 7. The gut is reduld but being adherent to the neck of the sac, it is bent upon itself so as ta occlude Its lumen. as to The accident known as " reduction en masse " needs special consideration It was hrst described by the French surgeons of the last century, but received little notice in this country uutil attention was drawn to it by Luke In the ordinary form the sac, with its contents still in a state of strangulation ig orced back into the abdominal cavity into the subserous areolar tissue behind and beneath the parietal peritoneum, between it and the abdominal muscles. A second form of reduction in mass was first described by Birkett. lu this variety the sac is not torn from its connexions, but it is ruptured,' usually at its posterior part near the neck, and the contents of the sac, still strangulated by the neck, are forced through the rent into the subperitoneal tissue. The reduction in mass has been far more frequently observed in cases of inguinal than in those of any of the other varieties of hernia. It has only very rarely been met with in femoral hernife, and, so far as I know, not in any other form of the disease. The comparative frequency of its occurrence in inguinal hernia is doubtless due to their large size, and loose areolar con- nexions. The accident has more often occurred from the patient's own eff'orts at reducing a strangulated hernia, than from those of the Surgeon. It is a remarkable fact that, in most of the instances in which it has occurred, only a very slight degree of force appears to have been employed ; and the accident would seem to have resulted from the adhesions between the sac and the neighbouring parts being much weaker than natural, so that a moderate degree of force caused the whole to slip through the canal. It may, however, occur fi-om the Surgeon's efforts, if these be too forcible or long-continued. The Diagnosis of these several conditions may possibly be made by atten- tion to the following points. In the reduction in mass the tumour has slipped up'without any gurgle ; there is a complete absence of that fulness of the part which is occasioned by the presence of the empty sac ; the abdominal ring is peculiarly open, much larger than usual, and somewhat rounded ; on pushing the finger into the canal, this will be found quite empty ; but in some cases, on deep pressure with the finger, especially when the patient stands up or coughs, a rounded tumour may be indistinctly felt behind the ordinary seat of the hernia. In the case of internal adhesions there will have been no gurgling, but the canal is still filled by the sac ; the abdominal apertures are not preternaturally patent and distinct. In the case of extreme niipping and consequent inflammation and paralysis of a portion of the gut, gurgling will have been felt and heard in effecting the taxis, which does not happen in either of the other conditions, and the symptoms of intestinal obstruction will not be quite complete. The vomiting will lose its stercoraceous character, and probably some flatus will pass. An hour-glass sac is met with only in old inguinal hernise, and appears to arise from a partial reduction in mass. Four cases of this kind have occurred in University College Hospital. In each apparent reduction was easily effected, with slight gurgling. The protrusion readily re-appeared, and was easily put back again. The nature of the case