376 EXCISION OF JOINTS. bones. Periosteal elevators of various forms are necessary if the operation is to be performed subperiosteally. The forceps sliould be of various sizes and shapes (Figs. 518 to 521), and gouges or sharp spoons will be found useful for scooping out suspicious patches on the cut osseous surfaces. For ordinary purposes, a small broad amputating saw will be found the most convenient instrument for dividing the bones ; but in some cases a narrow keyhole saw, or that introduced by Butcher (Fig. 5-17), will answer best. The last-named instrument is especially useful when it is intended to cut the bone obliquely, or when the space is limited ; for, as the blade is narrow and its angle can be changed at pleasure, any required direction can be communicated to the cut. Some Surgeons prefer, especially in resection of the knee-joint, a short and very broad-bladed saw, the blade being of breadth greater than the whole thickness of the bone to be divided. The chain-saw is now rarely used. Operation.—The steps of the operation must of course vary with the different resections ; but there are some general rules that may be laid down as applicable to all cases. 1. The incisions through the soft parts should be sufficiently free to expose thoroughly the bones to be removed ; they should be made, as far as practicable, parallel to tendons, blood-vessels, and nerves. 2. As little of the bone as possible should be removed. The gouge or sharp spoon may be applied to any carious cavities or patches that appear upon the surface of the freshly-cut bone ; and, in this way, shortening of the bone by the saw may be materially avoided. 3. In young children the epiphyses should, if possible, not be entirely removed, as it is on the growth of this portion of bone, or rather, on that of the epiphyseal cartilaginous layer adjoining the shaft, that increase in length of the bone is mainly dependent. 4. In adults in whom the bone has attained its full length, the epiphysis may be more freely removed, if necessary. But the shaft should not be encroached upon if it can possibly be avoided, and especial care should be taken not to open the medullary canal. 5. The periosteum should be carefully preserved, being stripped off the bone where it is thickened and loosened, and manipulated very gently, so that its vitality may be impaired as httle as possible. 6. It is of great importance not to confound bone softened by inflammation, but otherwise healthy, or roughened by the growth of osteophytes, with that which is carious and necrosed. 7. Skin, however redundant, should never be cut away. The flaps, at first too large, soon shrink down to a proper size, and, if trimmed, are very apt to become too scanty. 8. In cases of tuberculous disease, the pulpy granulation tissue occupy- ing the site of the synovial membrane should be removed as thoroughly as possible, partly by scraping with a sharp spoon and partly by forceps and scissors. 9. After the operation, if the skin were previously unbroken, the wound may be treated' by any of the antiseptic methods already described in the chapter on Wounds, the edges being brought together as accurately as pos- sible and proper provision made for drainage by the insertion of tubes. If sinuses exist and the discharges are not aseptic at the time of the operation, an attempt should be made thoroughly to disinfect the wound. For this