GANGSENE OF THE PENIS. Balano.posthitis.-A'«to»Ai, or infla.nmation of the f'l ^f^^f^.' „r ,„fla,n,u!tio.i of the prepuce, ra,-ely occur >ndcpenaen y of «ach °*eu Simple balano-posthitis is very frequently set up by accumulation and dirt beneath a bug, tight prepuce, but the most acute t»™ f'g,''. complication of gonorrhcca or soft sores. The prepuce is much ^wol en infil tr-S, and reddened, and. while the inflammation lasts, con tmues u a state o phimosis ; there is a muco-purulent discharge ^d'^^P'^'^f'^ "^^^^'^^''J^^^^ is affected, a good deal of irritation and smartmg. The glands in the gio.us are often tender and swollen, and occasionally suppurate A chronic form of balano-posthitis is apt to f^'^.'^^j f;-,"^ has already been mentioned as a cause of acquired phimosis. Jacohson mltls tL cases in which there was also Dupuytren's contraction of he palmar fascia, the gouty nature of which is generally accepted The n flammatiou of the prepuce which occurs in diabetics is probably due to the irritation of the urine. i • • i„„ Tn Treaiment-T\xQ disease requires to be treated on general principles. In the slighter forms the application of lead lotion, with the_ internal adminis- tration of salines, will usually suffice. In the severe forms, in ^ purulent discharge from the orifice of the prepuce, and in which in spi e ot constant fomenting, the prepuce cannot be retracted, it should be slit up along its dorsal surface in order that the exact state of aff-airs may be seen. In many cases it will be advisable to complete the circumcision ; and tbis operation is also advisable if the patient is subject to repeated attacks ot the simple form In the gouty form circumcision may also be required, but m that due to diabetes operation must be avoided, unless the inflammation is intense and sloughing seems likely to occur. , i . Herpes of the Glans and Prepuce is characterized by the formation of small vesicles and minute ulcers upon the mucous membrane of this region, attended with much smarting and itching, and occurring chMefly m gouty persons with an irritable mucous membrane. Treatment—llh\^ slight aff"ection is often very rebellious to treatment, in many instances local means alone will not suffice ; for, though relief may be obtained by powdering the part with the oxide of zinc, or by using slightly astrino-ent and cooling lotions, yet no permanent benefit will be derived unless constitutional treatment be adopted. Salines should be administered, and, if the patient is gouty, may be combined with colchicum and alkahes. For the cure of recurrent attacks Hutchinson speaks highly of arsenic. Persistent Priapism, lasting for many days, is occasionally met with, as the result in most cases of venereal excess, and more especially of violent coitus during intoxication. The erection of the penis is not accompanied by any sexual desire, but is attended with great pain, a sense of weight about the perineum, much anxiety, and constitutional disturbance. The organ is hard and unyielding. The pathology of this condition is obscure. By some it has been considered to be the result of extravasation of blood into the corpora cavernosa ; by others, to depend on sympathetic or reflex nervous irritation. The eff'ect of treatment would lead to the inference that the latter view is correct. Incisions into the corpora cavernosa to let. out the blood supposed to be extravasated have been productive of no good, whilst the erection has rapidly subsided under full doses of bromide of potassium. Gangrene of the Penis.—Sloughing of the integuments of the penis, to