TREATMENT OF ANEURISM: SURGICAL. 119 ,'nforcement of the recumbent posture is of great importance in this treatmeut. Tliere certainly appears to be sufficient evidence to warrant a trial of the iodide in the constitutional treatment of aneurism. By judiciously carrying out these plans of treatment and modifying them according to the circumstances of the case/cousolidation of the aneurismal tumour may occasionally be produced ; or, if this be not obtained, the progress of the disease will be very materially retarded. When aneurism occurs in old, feeble, or amemic persons, a lowering plan of Treatment is altogether inadmissible : here, such a course must be adopted, as will improve the plasticity of the blood, and regulate the action of the heart. With this view, complete rest, the administration of the preparations of iron, a dry but nourishing meat diet, and the occasional employment of opiates to reheve pain and to quiet the system, will be attended with the best results. In anenrism occurring in elderly people and amongst the poorer classes, this plan is perhaps more successful than any other. In the Local Treatment of aneurism but Httle can be done with the view of checking its progress, except by the employment of direct surgical means. The application of ice to the surface of the tumour is said to have acted beneficially in some cases ; but it is a painful remedy, and may occasionally be attended with sloughing of the skin to which it is applied. When the pain attending the increase of the tumour is considerable, much relief may be obtained from the hypodermic injection of morphia, the application of bella- donna plasters, or the use of an embrocation composed of equal parts of oil and of the strong tincture of aconite. These means comprise the only local measures that can be adopted in those cases of internal aneurism which are beyond the reach of surgical interference. SURGICAL a?REATMENT OF ANEURISM. In all those cases in which it is possible to delay with safety, no surgical proceeding should be undertaken for the cure of aneurism until the patient has been subjected to proper constitutional treatment for some time ; for, as the occlusion and consolidation of the sac, after surgical procedure, depend on the same conditions being induced that are successful after medical treat- ment, the same constitutional means should be adopted in the one case as in the other. Before proceeding to the employment of any direct surgical means for the cure of an external aneurism, it is necessary to ascertain that there is no internal aneurism present, and that the heart is free from disease. From want of this precaution, it has happened that patients have died on the operating table at the moment when the artery was being hgatured, or shortly afterwards. There is not a more interesting chapter in the history of Operative Surgery than that which records the changes that have taken place and the progress that has been made in the treatment of aneurism. The older Surgeons were either afraid to meddle at all with aneurism, and amputated the Hmb aflPected by it, or tried to restrain the progress of the disease by tight bandaging and direct pressure upon the tumour, or had recourse to the difficult and dangerous operation of laying open the sac and ligaturing or applying the actual cautery or styptics to the diseased artery on each side of the opening in it. In 1785, John Hunter substituted for these dangerous methods of treatment, the simpler and more scientific procedure of ligaturing the artery in a distant part of its course,