7i8 DISEASES OF THE (ESOPJIAGUS. progTOssivcjly iiicrcMsiug dilliciilty in swallowing, often unaccompanied by pain. At first the dilHculty occurs only with somewhat large solid masses ; then the patient can only swallow soft or finely divided substances ; then fluids pass with difficulty, and finally complete obstruction sets in, and unless relieved the patient dies of starvation. If the obstruction is some way down, tlie oesophagus commonly becomes dilated above it, and a pouch is thus formed which may contain some ounces of fluid. Small quantities are thus apparently swallowed, but after a short time are returned. Sometimes the regurgitated fluid is brought up suddenly with some force, as if squirted up rather than vomited. It may thus come out partly through the nose. The matter brought up shows evidence of not coming from the stomach, being still alkaline, if so when swallowed. By auscultation along the back while the patient swallows a mouthful of water, it is sometimes possible to ascertain the point at which the downward passage of the fluid is arrested. A harsh cough, with hoarseness or aphonia, is sometimes met with, probably from irritation of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. The patient may suifer much from accumulation about the glottis of mucus, which he can neither bring up nor swallow. Occasionally much discomfort may be caused by flatus rising from the stomach into the oesophagus below the stricture. In the Diagnosis of Organic Stricture it is necessary to determine first the presence of the stricture, and secondly, if possible, whether it be fibrous or cancerous. The other causes of dysphagia having been excluded if possible, the presence of the organic stricture may be determined by examining the canal with a bougie. To pass an oesophagus-bougie the Surgeon should stand before the patient, who should be seated. The bougie should be softened in warm water and greased with glycerine. The head must be inclined slightly forwards ; if it is thrown back the larynx is pressed against the spine, and the bougie will not pass readily. The obstruction thus caused is easily mistaken for a stricture. The instrument before being passed may be slightly curved, and it must be guided down the pharynx by the forefinger passed into the mouth. It com- monly causes retching and some dyspnoea as it passes the glottis. There is no fear of passing the bougie even when small into the larynx by mistake, as the point of the instrument is directed towards the posterior wall of the pharynx. After the point of the instrument has passed the glottis, the patient will breathe more easily, and it may then be steadily passed onwards. If an obstruction is met with the bougie may be gently and steadily pressed against it, but if it does not readily yield a smaller instrument must be tried, and so on until one passes if that be possible. . The facts ascertained by the use of the bougie are the seat and degree of the stricture. It may also furnish some evidence as to the nature of the disease. If it gives the sensation of passing over a rough irregular surface, and if when no force has been used blood is found on the bougie or is brought up afterwards, this would suggest the existence of a malignant growth, but the absence of these signs by no means proves that the stricture is fibrous. The diagnosis may, however, be made by attention to the following pomts. In simjyle stricture there is probably a history of the cause, such as mjury, swallowing caustic fluids, or possibly of syphilitic ulceration in the pharyux. A stricture in a patient below 30 is probably not cancerous. Slow develop- ment of the obstruction is in favour of a fibrous stricture. In cancerous