SPEC I A L A NEUIUSMS. 200 the hollow of the axilla to disappear, hut it is prevented frrm extending much beyond the space by the dense iascia stretching from one fold of the axilla to the other. In sorne rare instances, however, when the aneurism springs from the part of the artery above the pectoralis minor, the tumour takes a direction upwards into the ai'eolar interval above that muscle, or even underneath the clavicle into the interval between it, the acromion and the trapezius. It is for- tunately rare for an aneurism to take such a course, as it then presents serious difficulty in the compression or ligature of the subclavian ; and there is more than one instance on record, in which the sac has been punctured in the attempt to pass the needle round this vessel. When the aneurism is seated high up, it not unfrequently happens that the clavicle is pushed upwards by the tumour—a complication of considerable moment in reference to the opera- tion, the difficulties of which are greatly increased by it. The pressure of the tumour upon neighbouring parts may give rise to serious consequences : thus it may produce a carious state of the first and second ribs, and the compression of the brachial plexus will occasion pain and numbness in the upper extremity. The affections of the limb occasioned by the aneurism are diminution or extinc- tion of the radial pulse, oedema, coldness and loss of muscular power. In some cases the brachial artery beyond the tumour would appear to be obstructed, no pulsation being perceptible in it. Compression of the axillary vein may occasion oedema of the hand and arm, with some diminution in the temperature of the limb ; and these symptoms, if the tumour attain a very large size, may amount even to indications of impending gangrene. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of axillary aneurism is usually readily made, there being but two diseases with which it can well be confounded, viz., chronic enlargement and suppuration in the glands of the axilla, and pulsating tumour of the bones in this region. From glandular or other abscess, the diagnosis is generally easy ; but I have seen cases in which, pulsation being communicated to their contents by the subjacent artery, it was somewhat difficult to distinguish the nature of the disease. Here, however, the history of the case and its speedy progress to pointing will indicate its true nature. From soft pulsating sarcomata of the head of humerus, the diagnosis is not always so easy ; and there are at least two instances on record in which the subclavian artery has been ligatured for disease of this kind on the supposition of its being an aneurism. In these cases, however, it has generally been observed that the tumour first made its appearance on the fore part of the shoulder, and not in the usual situation of axillary aneurism ; that it was from the first firm, smooth, elastic, but nearly incompressible ; and that, although it presented distinct pulsation, there was no true bellows-sound, but rather a thrilling bruit perceptible in it. The most important diagnostic mark, perhaps, is that these tumours form a prominence in situations in which aneurisms of the axillary artery would not at first show themselves, as at the upper, outer, or anterior part of the shoulder. In more advanced stages, when the bone has become thin and expanded by the outward pressure of the tumour, there is often a characteristic egg-shell crackling on pressure. Treatment.—I am not acquainted with any instance m which an aneurism of the axillary artery, not arising from wound or injury, has undergone spon- taneous cure, or has been consolidated by constitutional treatment. Compres- sion or ligature of the subclavian in the third part of its course is the only means of cure. , ^ ^ c ■* Axillary aneurisms are favourably situated for the employment of dufita