RESULTS OF LIGATURE OF EXTERNAL ILIAC. 229 died. Rabe's statistics, with 30 cases added by Barwell, give 141, with 31 deaths, or nearly 22 per cent. Among the cases collected by Norris is one in which both external iliacs were ligatured successfully at an interval of eleven months by Tait. In some few cases also, there was the complication of an aneurism^ in the ham with that in the groin. Of ninety-two cases in which the aneurism was seated solely in the groin, seventy were cured and twenty-two died. Death resulted from gangrene of the limb in eight, from secondary hemorrhage in four, from sloughing of the sac in three, from tetanus in three, and from causes of a more general character in four cases. Pulsation rekirned m the sac in six of the cases collected by Norris: in some not until several weeks had elapsed after the operation ; and in one instance only was it follow^ed by death. Stqjpuratmi of the sac was of frequent occurrence, happening in thirteen instances, doubtless owing to the large size of the tumour and to suppuration in the wound, which must necessarily in such cases be in close proximity to the sac. It is remarkable, however, that in three cases only was this accident fatal; and in two of these the sac had been opened before the operation, on the supposition of its being an abscess. Secondary Immorrliage occurred in but six cases, four of which proved fatal; a very small proportion when compared with what happens in other situations. This must doubtless be attributed in a great measure to the absence of any collateral branches springing from the trunk of the external iliac ; the distance between the point ligatured and the epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries affording abundant space for the safe obliteration of the vessel. In one of the fatal cases, pulsation had previously returned in the sac ; in the other three the patients died on the seventeenth, the twenty- seventh, and the forty-third days respectively. Gangrene of the limb was the most common cause of death in Norris's tables. It occurred in nine instances, of which eight proved fatal ; one being cured by amputation. The period at which the gangrene occurred varied from the third to the fourth week. The principal cause of this gangrene is narrowing or obliteration of the neighbouring venous trunk, by pressure of the tumour. In the accompanying woodcut (Fig. 497) this is well illustrated; the vein opposite the aneurism being completely closed. Rabe's statistics with Barwell's supplementary cases give somewhat different results. Haemorrhage occurred in 24 of the 141 cases : of these 9 recovered and 15 died. Gangrene was fatal in 6, peritonitis in 2, retroperitoneal suppuration in 2, and various other causes in the remaining G, making a total of 31 deaths in the 141 cases. The ligature of the external iliac for nnmrismal varix in Ihe groin affords a Fis. 49' Obliteration ol' Femoral Vein by Inguinal Aneurism.