EXCISION OF THE ANKLE. 457 disease which iii other joints would certainly be considered suitable for excision. Of recent years, however, the operation of arthrectomy has been successfully extended to the ankle, and has been cari-ied out on exactly the same lines as those laid down m the case of the knee-joint. The conformation of the ankle renders the complete removal of the tuberculous tissue more uncer- tain than in the knee, but the results so far obtained certainly justify a trial of arthrectomy in suitable cases—that is, in cases in which complete rest has failed to arrest the disease—Syme's amputation being reserved for advanced cases with extensive bone disease, and for those in which arthrectomy has failed. Amputation is also usually required when the disease occurs in persons past middle age. Arthrectomy of the Ankle may be performed in various ways,, and further experience of the operation is required before it is possible to decide which is the most generally useful. Glutton recommends the employment of four straight incisions, one in front of and one behind each malleolus, through each of w^hich the diseased tissues are removed from the corresponding part of the joint. ■ Cheyne has employed a longitudinal incision in front of each malleolus, and has divided the malleoli or removed the astragalus in order to gain free access to the joint. Arbuthnot Lane and others have freely opened the joint by a transverse anterior incision, the divided tendons being subsequently sutured. The lateral methods have the advantage of not dividing important structures. If the astragalus is at all extensively diseased it should be com- pletely excised through an incision in front of the external malleolus. After the operation the foot should be kept fixed for a year and no attempt made at passive movement. Of 6 cases of tuberculous disease of the ankle in which ai-,threctomy was practised by Glutton, in 4 the result was very good, in 1 case there was slight displacement of the foot, but the patient was walking ; the remaining case was not traced. In 5 cases treated by Gheyne, in W'hich the astragalus was removed, a satisfactory movable joint was obtained. Excision of the AnMe may be performed in the following way. The limb being placed on its inner side an incision is made commencing about two inches above the extremity of the outer malleolus, and following the posterior border of the bone to its tip. It is then curved round the malleolus and carried upwards in fi-ont of the bone to a point nearly opposite that at which it com- menced. The incision must be carried firmly down to the bone, which is then cleaned by means of an elevator, the periosteum being carefully saved and the tendons of the peronei pushed backwards but not divided. The fibula is then cut through with a fine saw about half an inch above the level of the ankle- joint, and the malleolar portion is removed. The foot is now turned on the outer side and a similar incision made round the inner malleolus. Esmarch recommends that from the middle of the curve a vertical incision shall be carried up the tibia for about two inches, but this is not necessary if the original incision is of sufficient length. The malleolus and the lower end of the tibia are carefully cleaned with the periosteal elevator, the deltoid liga- ment being separated from the malleolus and the tendons raised and pushed on one side. The lower end of the tibia may be sawn across with a narrow saw and extracted from the inner wound. The saw may now be inserted again and the upper articular surface of the astragalus separated from