PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE LIPS. 668 been attached to the prolabium with pins or sutures, tl)e8e two flaps are drawn downwards and adjusted with fine stitches partly to the pointed lower on ot the prolabium and partly to each other. In cases of the opposite extreme in which the premaxilla is small and rudimentary, or fixed to'the tip of the nose, as in Fig. 724, it should be removed with bone-forceps, as it would prevent the lateral segments of the lip from coming into proper apposition. A dental artery deep in the bone may bleed freely, and re(iuire to be touched with a cautery. In intermediate cases, where the premaxilla is well developed but projecting, it has been recommended to bend or break it back by strong forceps covered with vulcanized india-rubber. Fergusson, however, pointed out that if this be done the incisor teeth contained in the intermaxillary portion will, if they develop at all, project backwards into the roof of the mouth, as the bone is not pushed into its normal situation] but rather rotated on its transverse axis, the slender neck attaching it to the vomer l^eing bent upon itself. He was of opinion therefore that in all cases it is better to remove the bone than to attempc to force or bend it into a new position. In cases such as that represented in Figs. 724 and 725 I have per- formed the following operation with great success :— 1. The triangular flap of skin covering the inter- maxillary portion is dissected up as thick as possible. 2. The intermaxillary process is then cut away at its root, which is small and pedunculated, with a pair of scissors. 3. The edges of the lateral fissures are then pared in the usual way. 4. The free lower margins of the pared edges are brought together by one hare-lip pin and twisted suture. .5. The leaf- Fig. T23. — Operation for Double Hare-lip. Right Side of Lip drawn clown by Spring-liook Forceps : long narrow Knife entered at angle; dotted line shows direction of the Incisions. Fig. 724.—Donble Hare-lip ; Inter- Fig, 720.—Double Hare-lip: Prelecting Inter- maxillary Portion ti.xed to Xose. maxillary ijortion. shaped flap is then laid down in the triangular hollow left above the pin, and retained there by one or two points of silver suture on each side, the gap being thus completely filled up by it. On the whole, however, removal of the premaxilla must not be looked upon as an unimportant detail of the operation, but rather as a serious step to be