2 78 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. of the shaft. In those cases the course of the disease is usually less acute, and the abscess may become localized and gradually point towards the surface! Separation of the epiphyses is by no means a constant occurrence ; the younger the patient the more likely is it to occur. Billroth states that a disease of exactly the same character may occur in adults, but this is somewhat doubtful. Pathology.—Acute necrosis must be regarded as an example of an acute infective suppuration and not as a specific disease. The fact that the pus in acute necrosis contains micrococci was demonstrated by Liicke and Klebs as long ago as 1874. In 1880 Pasteur cultivated the organisms obtained from a case of this disease, and pointed out their similarity or identity with those he had found in common boils ; and the further researches of Becker in 1883, and Eosenbach in 1884, added greatly to our knowledge of the characters and properties of the micrococcus. Indeed it is now recognized that the organism is most commonly the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus or albus (Vol. I. p. 243), •which is by far the most frequent cause of all forms of acute suppuration. The streptococcus pyogenes is much less commonly met with, but it has been found in some instances by Lannelongue and Achard. Reference has already been made to the experiment of G-arre, who, by rubbing a pure cultivation from a case of acute necrosis into his arm, caused the development of a crop of boils. The starting-point of the acute suppuration probably varies, but in the majority of cases it begins either beneath the periosteum or between the diaphysis and the cartilage of the epiphysis. In Germany and France the disease is more commonly described as acute osteomyelitis, and the suppuration is believed to commence in the medulla. There is no doubt that in fatal cases it is very common to find the medulla inflamed and often suppurating, but this is by no means constant, and in many cases at least is evidently secondary. In a case which lately occurred in University College Hospital, a section of the bone showed the medulla to be inflamed on one side only, in contact with the part of the compact tissue which was denuded of its perios- teum, the remainder of the marrow being perfectly healthy. The inflamma- tion was evidently of a more recent date than that of the periosteum. In the early stages it may be'possible to decide whether the suppuration began beneath the periosteum or between the diaphysis and epiphysis, but soon all evidence of the starting-point is lost, for the pus completely • separates the periosteum and causes separation of each epiphysis. The mode of entrance of the organism into the body and its habitat out of the body are still uncertain. In very rare cases acute necrosis is preceded by an unhealthy wound or sore on the surface of the body, but, as a rule, no such source of infection is present. If the conditions for its development are not favourable, the organism is destroyed in the blood. On the other hand it may find a suitable nidus for its growth in one of the bones. The two parts of the bone in which the suppuration usually commences are both rich in vascular growing tissue and thus are especially liable to damage from trivial injuries. A definite history of injury is not uncommon in cases of acute necrosis, and the injury must be regarded as an important element ^ in preparing the delicate growing bone for the growth of the organism. This clinical fact is in keeping with the results obtained by the experimental inoculation of animals with the staphylococcus ; for it has been found that if,