372 • EXCISION OF JOINTS. justifiaUe, excision may be done in order to hasten the cure, and thus save years of suffering to tlie patient, 3. Excision may be done in cases in which ampuiation is not practicable as in some cases of disease of the hip-joiut or of the temporo-maxillary articulation. 4. As a substitute for other and less efficient treatment, in order ta restore t?ie utility of a limb or joint; as in osseous ankylosis of the elbow, or in faulty ankylosis of the knee. 5. Excision may be required in bad compound dislocations and fractures into joints, especially in gunshot injuries ; more particularly in those of the head of the humerus, and of the bones entering into the elbow-joint. As a general rule excisions are required only in those cases in which the articular ends of the bones are diseased either primarily or secondarily. If only the soft structures of a joint be involved, it usually happens that, without the necessity of resection or operation of any kind, a useful limb will result— in the upper extremity, with fair mobility of the articulation; in the lower, with more or less complete ankylosis, sufficient for a fair basis of support. But when the constitution is very strumous, or the bones are primarily or extensively affected, we can scarcely expect that the limb will recover to such an extent as to become useful. In the treatment of tuberculous disease, especially in children, excision has in many joints been to a large extent replaced by arthrectomy, and the unnecessary removal of healthy structures thus avoided. In determining the necessity of excision the circumstances of the patient must be taken into consideration. Among the upper classes who can enjoy all the advantages of good food, change of air and careful nursing, it is rarely necessary to excise a joint, and the operation should never be undertaken till prolonged efforts have been made to obtain a cure by other means. In hospital practice, on the other hand, we have to deal with patients whose circumstances make it almost impossible for them to receive the prolonged attention essential to the recovery of a chronically diseased joint, and in them excision may often with advantage be performed at an earlier period. Conditions of Success.—For resection to succeed, the following condi- tions appear to me to be necessary :— • 1. The disease should not be too extensive, so that its removal would entail such an amount of mutilation of the limb as to render it less useful to the patient than an artificial member would be. This is especially important in the lower extremity. If the bones be so extensively affected as to require to be shortened by several inches, a limb would be left which would be only a useless encumbrance. In the upper extremity, length and strength are of less consequence than in the lower; the preservation of the hand is the chief thing to aim at, and, if this be eff'ected, the bones may be encroached on to a greater extent than is proper in the lower limb; 2. The disease for which resection is practised should be allowed to become chronic before any operation is undertaken. For this there are two reasons :— First, in the acute stage of disorganization of a joint, it is not always possible to say however unpromising the case may appear, whether ankylosis may not result so that as useful a limb would be left as could be obtained by resection And secondly, if the joint be excised whilst acute and active disease is going on, inflammation and difi*use suppuration of the medullary canal are liable to-