DISEASES OF VEINS. 6o proper antiseptic precautions are taken to prevent it. The constitutional disturbance in this form of phlebitis is not severe unless suppuration takes place, and even then it speedily subsides as soon as the pus i,s evacuated. The symptoms of spreading septic phlebUis of the deep veins are less evident, being concealed more or less completely at first by the unhealthy inllammation taking place in the part from which tlie mischief has staroed, and later on by the grave constitutional symptoms of pyasmia which speedily manifest themselves. Pain and tenderness in tbe line of the vein, with considerable oedema rapidly coming on, would lead to a suspicion of its occurrence. The superficial veins are less commonly affected, but should they be implicated, the symptoms are those of superficial phlebitis just described, differing only in the steady extension of the redness and pain up the course of the vein, and in the presence of the general symptoms of blood-poisoning. Treatment.—The first point to be attended to in the treatment of phlebitis is absolute rest of the limb in an elevated position. The importance of rest in these cases is twofold : first, to prevent pain and increase of the local mischief; and secondly, to guard against the danger that may result from the detachment of the thrombus, which, carried into the circulation, may occasion sudden death by plugging of the pulmonary artery, or more remotely, in cases of septic phlebitis, by pygemia. Should the affected veins be situated in the neighbourhood of a joint, the limb may be kept at rest by means of a well-padded splint. In simple or gouty phlebitis, much local comfort is derived from the application of Extract of Belladonna and Glycerine, in equal parts, covered by a hot fomentation and a thick layer of cotton-wool loosely secured by a bandage. Should this application not be at hand, simple hot fomentations will afford great relief. The constitutional treatment must be conducted on ordinary medical principles in accordance with the age and strength of the patient, depletory measures always being avoided, and early recourse being had to a tonic or stimulating plan. The hardness that is often left after the subsidence of the inflammation will gradually disappear without any special treatment. If oedema of the limb continue, the pressure of an elastic roller will remove it. But if the oedema has been extensive and chronic the limb rarely, if ever, completely recovers its natural size. If abscesses form they must be treated by free and early incisions, the most scrupulous attention being paid to the prevention of decomposition. In spreading septic phlebitis treatment is of little avail. If a superficial vein is affected it would be justifiable to expose the vein above the affected part and remove a portion of it to arrest the progress of the disease. If the deep veins are affected and the diagnosis can be clearly established, and especially if rigors and other symptoms of blood-poisoning are present, am- putation may give the patient a last chance. This form of phlebitis is,^ however, almost certainly preventable by any efficient antiseptic mode of treating wounds. In those cases in which a similar condition is set up in the vem leadmg from an area of infective inflammation, not septic in character, as in acute necrosis of bone, the diagnosis is almost impossible until it is too late for amputation to be of any service.