f FLUID IN THE HERNIAL SAG. 823 Besides the viscera, the hernial sac always contains a certain qnantity of fluid. In most cases, this is in but small quantity ; but in some instances, when the sac is inflamed, or the hernia strangulated, a very considerable amount is met with ; I have seen as much as a pint escape fi'om a large hernia in an old man. In strangulated or inflamed hernia, it is generally of a reddish colour, though clear and transparent. Hydrocele of the Hernial Sac.—In some instances the fluid becomes collected in a kind of cyst within the sac, formed by the omentum contracting adhesions to its upper part and leaving space below for the fluid to collect; this condition, represented in the annexed drawing (Fig. 794), has been called Hydrocele of the Hernial Sac, and is somewhat rare. The fluid is often in considerable quantity ; in a case which I once tapped, nearly three pints of I dark-brown liquid had accumulated. If we limit the term hydrocele of the hernial sac to those cases in which ) there is a slow and gradual accumulation of fluid at the bottom of an old I hernial sac, which has been cut off from all communication with the peritoneum by the adhesion of intestine or omentum to the upper part and neck, it must be considered a rare disease ; and but few cases are recorded by surgical writers. Curling, in his work on the Testis, states that he had seen only one case ; and the only others with which I am acquainted, besides one that occurred in my own practice, are two related by Pott, two by Pelletan, one by Boyer, and one by Lawrence. This disease must not be confounded with the accumulation of fluid, in whatever quantity, in strangulated herniae, or in hernial sacs that communicate with the peritoneal cavity. Its distinguishing feature is the accumulation of fluid in a part of the sac that has been cut off from all communication with the cavity of the peritoneum. An Accumulation of Ascitic Fluid in a ^.^ 794.-Diagram of Hernial Sac may occur when hernia is complicated Hydrocele of Hernial sac. with ascites. In one case of this kind which occurred in my practice, the hernia, which was femoral, in a woman, was very tightly strangulated, as large as a shaddock, very tense, with distinct fluctuation ; the skin covering it being much stretched, this was peculiarly evident. On opening the sac, fluid flowed in a jet, as if a hydrocele had been punctured, and about four inches of strangulated gut were found lying at the bottom of the sac. After division of the stricture, serous fluid in large quantity continued to drain from the peritoneal cavity for several hours after the operation. A rapid Accumulation of Fluid in a Hernial Sac which has been obliterated at its neck is occasionally met with, chiefly in the femoral region, though occasionally also in the inguinal. A case of this kind 'occurred not long ago in University College Hospital. The patient, a middle-aged woman, was suddenly seized with pain in the abdomen, and bilious vomiting. On examining the groin a tense rounded tumour was found in the region of a femoral hernia. It was free from tenderness and fluctuated indistinctly. On cutting down upon it, it was found to be an old hernial sac distended with clear serous fluid, but without solid contents. While examining the ring the adhesions at the neck of the sac gave way, and the finger slipped into the