ir294 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. expanded layers of the corresponding broad \\ir^mmt~mlra-limnnoni. growths so called in contradistinction to cysts conLted wi^ « . well-dehned ped.cle-resort must be had to the procedure know as Mm. The tumour havn.. been tapped and en.ptied, the inve^ti "layer of peritoneum ,h cautiously incised, and then gradually separated inch by .d from the base of the collapsed cyst until the main blood supply de, through the ovarian and uterine vessels is reached and clearly defined T / are now secured m masse by a double-loop transfixing ligature in the mann, above descnbed, and the cyst is cut awa} ; any bleeding vessel son he • sur ace ot the remaining broad-ligament capsule are then tied, and its opio • i surfaces are allowed to fall together at the bottom of the pelvis Parietal adhesions, unless of long standing, do not as a rule require hVatur. temporary comprossion by forceps usually sufficing for the arrest of Lm.n- rhage. Should there, hou-ever, be general oozing from a somewhat extensive •surface, the application of a sponge moistened with tincture of matico will serve readily to control it. Bands of pelvic adhesions must always be tied as near as possible to their seat of origin, and cut short. Omental and intestinal adhesions need careful management; the former should be dealt with either by transhxion and tying off in sections, or else by separate ligature of bleedin^^ vessels ; the latter, if extensive, may require to be laced by a fine continuous suture involving only the peritoneal coat of the intestine. After all hasmorrhage has been controlled, a small soft sponge should ho passed down to the bottom of the pelvis behind and also in front of the uteru. for the purpose of removing any fluid or blood-clot that may remain in either ■one of these pouches. The pedicle is then finally examined to make certain that all IS left secure; the forceps holding it are removed, and it is dropped in _ In cases of ruptured cyst, or where numerous and extensive vascular adhe- sions have been separated, the peritoneal sac may advantageously be flushed out with warm water, previously sterilized by boiling, introduced through a metal or stout glass tube directly to the more dependent portions of'^the ■abdominal cavity. This method of cleansing is far less irritating to the rserous membrane than prolonged sponging ; and, if thoroughly carried out, it effectually removes all blood-clot. The subsequent use of a drainage-tube is by no means essential, as any moderate amount of fluid left in the cavity is Teadily absorbed in the course of a few hours, and passed off through the kidneys. The best material for suturing the abdominal incision is silk-worm gut, passed through the entire thickness of the parietes, including, of course,\he •divided edges of the peritoneum, at intervals of about half an inch. Du'rin? the introduction of the stitches, the abdominal contents are to be protected by means of a small flat sponge. Before closing the incision, all sponges and forceps are to be carefully •counted, in order to make sure that none are missine'. Should drainage be deemed advisable, a glass tube of the required length is introduced to the bottom of Douglas's pouch from the lower end of the abdominal incision. The mouth of the tube is then covered with one or more ^ell-carbolized sponges, enveloped in a rubber sheet with a perforation in its ■centre which fits closely around the everted lip of the tube (Fig. 972). Finally, a dry antiseptic dressing is applied and kept in place^ by broad straps ■of adhesive plaster, over which a flannel binder is fastened securely round the patient's abdomen before placing her in bed.