983 TREATMENT OF PILES: OPERATION. Tincture of hamamelis is said materially to relieve, and, in fact, to cure bleeding internal piles. It may be administered by the mouth and by enema simultaneously. The habitual use of clysters, consisting either of soap and water or thin gruel, will be found advantageous in many cases of piles, though in some they appear to irritate, and rather to increase.the disease. In the general management of piles, it need scarcely be observed that any habits which favour the disease should be sedulously avoided. The Local Treatment of piles is of considerable importance. The parts should be regularly sponged with cold water, morning and evening. If there be much relaxation, and the piles be internal, benefit may result from the employmentjof some astringent injection, such as a very weak solution of the sulphate of iron, or of the tincture of the sesquichloride—a grain of the first or ten drops of the second, to an ounce of water; of this about two ounces may be injected eveiy night and left in the rectum. The application of an astringent ointment, such as the unguentum gallae co., extract of hamamehs, or the employment of the anodyne and astringent suppository already re- commended^for fissure of the anus, wiU be very beneficial. If an external pile become inflamed, it should be painted with equal parts of extract of belladonna and glycerine, hot fomentations applied, a very spare diet enjoined, and the bowels opened by mild saline aperients. If a coagulum form in the inflamed pile, the tumour should be laid open with a lancet, and its contents squeezed out. If an abscess form, it must be punctured in the usual way, and the part afterwards fomented or dressed with boric lint soaked in warm boric lotion. Should strangulation of internal piles take place, the protruded swelhng must be returned by gentle steady pressure, and the part afterwards well fomented. 2. Operation.—The means above indicated are usually sufficient in ordinary cases of piles ; but very frequently operative interference is required. This is most commonly called for on account of hsemorrhage or the prolapse of the piles during defsecation. No operation should be undertaken whilst the piles are in an inflamed state, lest unhealthy ii;iflammation be set up in the part. It is also well to get the patient's health into as good a state as possible before the operation ; as a rule no operation is justifiable if the patient is suffering from cirrhosis of the liver. "Whatever method be adopted, care should be taken that the bowels have been well opened by a purgative, and the rectum cleared out by an enema of warm water. Of the various methods adopted for the removal of piles, excision is alone applicable to external piles, whilst in the case of the internal variety the choice will usually lie between strangulation by ligature, destruction by the clamp and cautery, and complete removal of the affected part of the mucous membrane. Among other methods which have from time to time been ■ advocated by different Surgeons may be mentioned : crushing the pile with screw-forceps or a specially constructed clamp, the application of nitric acid and other caustics, the injection with carbolic acid, and electrolysis. Although all these plans have been employed with success in the treatment of internal piles they offer no advantages over the methods before mentioned, and are not extensively used at the present day. Excision of External Piles.—The removal of external piles is readily effected. The tumour should be seized with a catch-forceps, and snipped off with a pair of scissors, curved upon the flat. At the same time any pendulous