2l6 SPECIAL ANEURISM;:,. aneurism, disease of the lieurt and of the arterial system in otlier parts has co-existed. While spontaneous aneurisms are rare in these situations, the traumatic forms of the disease are of more frequent occurrence (Vol. I., pp. 479-483). Treatment.—In cases of aneurism below the axilla, direct pressure may be tried with advantage, provided the tumour be of small size and unattended with inflammation of the skin covering it. Compression of the trunk of the artery above the tumour is rarely applicable, on account of the pain that is induced by the pressure upon the neighbouring nerves, which cannot be isolated from the artery. Besides this, the brachial artery is so mobile, and the humerus so small and round, that the vessel cannot be steadily compressed against it for any length of time, but will roll away from under the pressure, even if the patient could bear the pain of it. The application of Esmarch's bandage under chloroform might be tried in suitable cases. Ligature of the Brachial Artery.—The brachial artery maybe ligatured in the middle of the arm, which is considered the seat of election by making an incision, about three inches long, parallel to and upon the inner edge of the biceps (Fig. 490), which is the " directing line," and the first rallying-point ; the fascia, which is exposed, must be opened carefully to a corresponding ex- tent, and the edge of the biceps drawn outwards, when the median nerve will commonly be seen crossing the artery : this must be drawn on one side with a blunt hook, when the artery, accompanied by its two veins, will be exposed ; these vessels must then be separated from one another, and the hgature passed and tied in the usual way. In performing this operation, the principal point to attend to is to cut down upon the inner edge of the biceps, which will be the sure guide to the artery (Fig. 491). If the Surgeon keep too far back, he may fall upon the ulnar nerve and the basilic vein, which mio-ht possibly be mistaken for the brachial artery ; by taking care to expose the*fibres of the biceps in his early incision, he will avoid this error. The fascia over the median nerve must be opened thoroughly, otherwise the artery may be drawn on one side with it. The needle must be passed from the nerve. m.n.. Fic 491.—Diagram of the parts concerned in Ligature of the Brachial in the middle of the arm m.n. Median nerve drawn inwards; 6. biceps; i-'.r. Vence comites ; a. brachial artery.