563 HOLLO W CLA W-FOOT. The whole is induded in tlie boot, and, beyond making the ankle look a litt e clumsy, hardly shows externally. The tendency of the apparatus is constantly to push the foot a little inwards, while at the same time it interferes with no movement of the joint, and gives every muscle free play. As the foot im- proves under its influence, any tendency to knock-knee which may have existed will also diminish, if not disappear. When w^earing this apparatus the patient, if a child, may be allowed to run and play without restriction. It very rarely fails either to cure or greatly relieve the condition. Walsham recommends the use of a rubber band to support the arch of the foot. A leg-iron fixed to the outer side of the boot is secured at its upper end to the leg below the knee with a broad leather strap. The rubber band is attached to the outer border of the sole of the boot, and passing between the boot and the sole of the foot, is carried upwards along the inner side of the leg to be attached to the circular leather strap. Various operations have been performed for extreme flat-foot. Goldmg-Bird has removed the scaphoid alone, and in other cases excised also the head of the astragalus ; Ogston has excised the articulation between the astragalus and scaphoid, fixing the sawn surfaces with ivory pegs. These operations have relieved the patient's pain although not necessarily restoring'the arch of the foot. Trendelenburg has practised supra-malleolar osteotomy of the tibia and fibula, by which the outward displacement of the foot can be corrected. Operation can never be justifiable unless all other methods have failed and the patient is seriously crippled by the deformity. Hollow Claw-foot. This deformity is characterized by an increase in the normal antero-posterior arch of the foot, as the result of which the measure- ment from the toes to the heel is proportionately diminished. The toes themselves exhibit a remarkable displacement. The metatarso-phalangeal joints are over-extended, often to such an extent that the bases of the first phalanges are subluxated on to the dorsal surface of the necks of the metatarsal bones ; the inter-phalangeal joints are flexed. The heads of the metatarsals project prominently in the sole, and painful corns often form over them. On the dorsal surface of each toe, in a position corresponding to the flexed joint between the first and second phalanges, the skin becomes thickened and false bursse are often present. The tendons of the extensors of the toes are tense and stand out prominently as they pass over the hyper-extended metatarso-phalangeal joints. In nearly all instances the ankle is in a position of slight extension, or, at least, full flexion of the foot is impossible. This is due to a varying degree of tension of the tendo Achillis. The muscles of the leg will be found to be smaller than those of the opposite limb, when, as is often the case, the deformity is unilateral ; the muscles of the calf are chiefly afiected. In a well marked case of hollow claw-foot any attempt to reduce the -arching of the foot is resisted by the shortened plantar fascia and ligaments, which form tense bands at the inner part of the sole. This deformity makes standing and walking very painful when too prolonged ; for this reason, that from the position of the toes and from the increased arch of the foot, the whole pressure in walking is borne upon the heel and upon the skin covering the unnaturally prominent heads of the metatarsal bones. In the case from which the drawing (Fig. 659) was made, the condition was congenital, but did not trouble the patient till he was ten years old. When he was apprenticed, a long walk always gave him pain, and at last he was 002