T ( EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 451 , to saw in the opposite direction. The section must be made accurately at rio-ht an2,-les to the shaft of the tibia in both directions. It has been recommended to saw the tibia concave and the femur convex, using a Butcher's saw, but it is difficult to do this so that the bones shall fit accurately, and the method presents no advantage over the ordinary way of operating. Care must be taken not to remove more of the bones than is abso- ■ lutely necessary, especially in young subjects, lest the epiphyses be completely : removed and the growth of the limb interfered with. It is usually sufficient • to remove from one-third to three-fourths of an inch of the tibia, and about one inch or an inch and a half of the thigh-bone (Figs. 587 and 588). In . young children the ends of the bones can sometimes be sliced off with a knife, ! and the amount taken away accurately limited to the diseased tissues. It not unfrequently happens that carious cavities are found extending beyond the level of the section that has been made ; when this is the case, it is better to apply the gouge to them than to saw the bone beyond their level. Should the operation be performed for deformity consequent upon badly reduced fractures or dislocations about the knee, as has been done successfully by Humphry of Cambridge, it may be necessary, in order to bring the limb into good position, to remove a wedge-shaped piece from one of the bones. If the patella be much diseased, it must be removed; if it be only slightly I carious it may be scraped or gouged out ; and if healthy, in accordance with that principle of conservative surgery by which no sound part is removed, it should be left, becoming consolidated with and strengthening the joint. The i articalar surface for the patella on the thigh-bone, which extends some way up ' its fore part, may advantageously be shced off, so as to leave an osseous surface, instead of a cartilaginous one, for the attachment of the patella. I have always found the operation, as it has just been described, easy of per- formance and good in its results; but various modifications are adopted by different Surgeons. Thus, some make one straight transverse incision; others I two parallel incisions, one on each side of the patella, or an H-shaped incision, :and thus open the articulation from the side. Others advise that the patella be always removed. Yolkmann recommends a straight incision from one ! condyle of the femur to the other across the middle of the patella, which is ) then sawn through, so as to expose the joint. After the articular ends of the ■ femur and tibia have been removed, the fragments of the patella are united by ; sutures of catgut, carbolized silk or wire. If its articular surface is diseased it . must be sliced off or scraped. The results obtained by this method are very 'good; the patella readily unites by bone, and either remains movable or i becomes fixed to the femur. The attachment of the quadriceps extensor and i ligamentnm patellae being undisturbed, the tendency to displacement of the \ tibia backwards after the operation is counteracted, and in walking the action i of the rectus in bringing the limb forwards is preserved. I ^ After the ends of the bones have been removed, in cases of tuberculous disease, the pulpy synovial membrane must be cleaned away as completely as possible, partly by scraping with a sharp spoon and partly by the use of scissors and forceps. Some caution is necessary in cleaning the posterior part of the joint to avoid wounding the popliteal vessels. The healing of the wound is much facilitated and the chance of recurrence diminished by this proceeding. If sinuses existed before the operation, they may be scraped and •cleaned with a solution of chloride of zinc. G G 2 i