SYNOVITIS: TREATMENT. 3^9 In some cases of chronic synovitis distinct crarklmff will be felt in the interior of the joint, on laying the hand over the articulation, whilst it is freely moved. This appears to me to be due to the existence of bands of fibrinous exudation in the interior of the joint, through which the fluid is pressed by the ai-ticular movements, and thus occasions the sensation which is met with under similar circumstances in enlargements of the burs«, and m tiuid effusions in the sheaths of tendons. Terminations.—The termination of serous synovitis will depend mainly on its cause. When simple and uncomplicated, arising as the result, perhaps, of rheumatic influences, it will in most cases end in complete resolution. In other instances, however, as a consequence of inflammatory exudation, warty vegetations or concretions may form within the joint, or bands stretching across its interior or incorporated with its capsule may occasion more or less permanent stiffness. Chronic or subacute synovitis, when simple, usually terminates favourably, although the joint is often left in a weak state from which it may not recover for many months. The termination of chronic hydrarthrosis will chiefly depend on its cause. If due to Charcot's disease the fluid is usually absorbed more or less completely after some time, but the deformity of the joint remains. (See Charcot's Disease.) In tuberculous dropsy recovery may take place under proper con- stitutional and local treatment with perfect rest, but not uncommonly the disease gradually develops into ordinary white swelling with destruction of the joint (see Tuberculous Disease). Treatment of Serous Synovitis.—The treatment of serons synovitis depends partly on the severity of the symptoms, and partly on the cause of the disease. If a joint have been injured subcutaneously, and synovitis be apprehended, or indeed have commenced, no treatment will be found more efficacious than the continued application of ice in india-rubber bags of sufficient size to envelop the whole of the articulation ; the limb being kept at the same time perfectly at rest on a splint or in a sling. Should well- marked effusion have already occurred, or should the ice fail in arresting it, then, if the patient be young and strong, the application of leeches, followed by fomentations and accompanied by perfect rest of the part on a sphnt, or on pillows properly arranged, will be the most useful treatment. At the same time, saline purgatives may be given, and the patient kept on a low diet. If the disease be rheumatic, hot fomentations may be applied, and rest of the part maintained in the elevated position; at the same time salicylate of sodium may be given in ten-grain doses, and Dover's powder should be administered if there be much pain at night. If the patient be gouty, colchicum should be given. When the disease is of syphilitic origin, the application of blisters, followed by mercury in some form, will be attended with marked success. In subacute or chronic si/fiovitis rest is, perhaps, the most important element in the treatment, everything else proving useless unless this be attended to ; the limb may be fixed by leather splints, or a starched bandage cut up so that it may be removed to make the necessary applications to the joint. In these cases the uniform pressure obtained by the application of an india-rubber bandage combined with rest will often cause the absorption of the effused fluid. Should this fail, repeated painting with tincture of iodine till the skin is slightly sore, or blistering over the whole of the joint constitutes perhaps the