ACCIDENTS DURING LATERAL LITHOTOMY. 1065 arteries especially that of the bulb, when wounded, is greatly increased by Tnlar'^^^^^^^^^^ inclLn upwards. In the event of a ligature not bemg api^" able the Surgeon would have to trust to plugging the wound round the tube as desclLd farther on, or to the pressure of an assistant's ^^-g-s «of for a considerable time, or to the application ot fo^'C/Pi^essure loiceps ihe pressure of the fingers of relays of assistants, kept up for a considerable length of time, although it seems to have been an efficient mode of treatmen , is painful to the ^ patient, and is difficult to carry out. The pressure must be kept up for many hours : thus South relates a case in which it was maintained for fourteen hours ; and Brodie one in which, after twenty-four hours, it succeeded The assistants should not be changed more frequently than neces- sary each keeping up pressure for two or three hours, and removing his fino-ers as cautiously as possible. It is, doubtless, very rare for these arteries to be wounded when they follow their usual course ; though such accidents have happened in the hands of some of the most skilful lithotomists, such as Home, Bell, Roux, and Desault. It was the opinion of Aston Key that the arterv of the bulb was generally cut during hthotomy ; but in this he was mistaken, so far as its trunk is concerned, though doubtless in many cases the bulb itself may be wounded, and the mesh of twigs, in which the vessel terminates, divided ; this, however, would not yield an alarming haemorrhage. The trunk of the artery of the bulb would, however, be endangered by opening the urethra too high up, and lateralizing the knife too early, and if wounded it bleeds very freely. It may happen that on pulling the wound widely open the bleeding poiut may be seen, but at such a depth that it is impossible to apply a ligature. It may then be seized in torsion or forcipressure forceps and immediately twisted, or if this does not succeed the forceps may be left hanging on the vessel for a few hours. For this purpose the forcipressure forceps are the best, as they more efficiently crush and obliterate the vessel. The internal pudic artery, bound down by a strong fascia, and under cover of the ramus of the ischium, runs but little risk unless the knife be lateralized too much, and the incision be carried too far outwards. In children in whom the ramus of the ischium is to a great extent cartilaginous, this accident could more easily happen. It is in some of the anomalous distributions of these vessels that the greatest danger would be occasioned. The artery of the bulb, the inferior htemorrhoidal, the dorsal artery of the penis, or the internal pudic, may take so anomalous a course that its division is inevitable ; and, as the Surgeon has no possible means of knowing beforehand whether the distribution of the arteries is regular or not, he is not to blame in the event of a vessel being accidentally divided, when it takes an abnormal direction. If the incision be commenced too high up, and especially if the upper part of the first incision be made by pushing the knife in too deeply, the corpus spongiosum and its vessels may be wounded. It may be stated as a general rule, that serious haemorrhage is usually best avoided by making the incisions low ; and indeed, I believe that the great secret of success in lateral lithotomy consists in making all the deep incisions as low as practicable ; the knife entering the groove of the stalf from below upwards, rather than from above downwards. Venous Hemorrhage may occur from two sources—the superficial or the