DISEASES OF THE LARYNX. 732 imn_ff, with difficulty in breathing, makes violent etforts to inspire becomes befoie anything can be done for his relief; but ordinarily he gapes and o ' msp ation. J.he attacks vary ni severity and may occur several times daily 0 only very occas.onally In cases of this kind, the Treatment at the time of the fit consis s in dashing cold water in the face, in exposing the body to a current of cold air, and in using friction to the extremities. If asphyxia occur, intubation or tracheotomy may be required ; but this is very rare The genera treatment of the rickety condition with which the affection is so often associated is most important. In th^ adult, these spasmodic affections of the larynx may be hysterical or may result from irritation of the laryngeal nerves by the pressure of tumours or aneurisms. In other instances they arise from the presence of some local inflammatory mischief about the glottis. In the hysterical form of the affection the ordinary remedies for hysteria, together with cold douches, will be of essential service. When the disease arises from irritation to the trunks of the nerves tracheotomy may give relief, but the cause of the pressure on the nerves is usually in itself of a fatal character. Fig. ToS.—Endo-laryngeal Forceps. i Paralysis of the Larynx, either unilateral or bilateral, is occasionally met with. When unilateral, it arises usually from pressure on the recurrent laryngeal nerve by an aneurism or other tumour. The varieties of laryngeal paralysis due to the pressure of an aneurism on the recurrent laryngeal nerve have already been considered at p. 155. Bilateral abductor paralysis, which is usually associated with disease of the central nervous system, especially locomotor ataxy, may cause serious dyspnoea necessitating tracheotomy for its relief. Tumours of the Larynx.—Simple Tumours.—Papillomata form the most common simple tumours of the larynx. They appear as cauliflower- like growths of all sizes up to that of a walnut. They may be single and pedunculated, or multiple and sessile, spreading widely over the upper opening of the glottis. Their most common seat of origin is the vocal cords. They are met with at any age, but are more common after thirty than before. In structure they resemble similar growths elsewhere, being composed of processes of vascular connective tissue covered with a layer of epithelium. The epithelium is that normal to the part, being, as a rule, squamous, though columnar epithelium is said to have been occasionally observed. Fibromata are much less common. They form rounded or smoothly lobulated peduncu- lated growths, springing usually from the neighbourhood of the vocal cords. They are almost invariably single. They are composed of ordinary fibrous