RENAL TUMOURS: DIAGNOSIS. ioi9 columns, and closely resembled the normal structure ^^^'^'T.^riitw of the adi-enal. Similar tumours imbedded m the substance of the kidney, and probably taking origin from accessory adrenals, have also been observed. The ireatment of sarcoma of the kidney is necessarily limited to nephrectomy, which has been done both by the lumbar and the abdominal incisions, it the tumour exceed a moderate size the latter is the only possible method, ihc immediate mortality is great and the prospect of permanent cure very small This is especially the case when the disease occurs m early life, ihus ol 2i cases collected by Bland Sutton, 12 of the children died from the operation and the other 9 were all dead before the end of a year. It must be considered 4oubtful whether the results so far obtained in children justify a repetition of the operation. In adults also the operation is attended with a high mortality, and rapid recurrence usually follows in cases which recover from the operation. _ . Carcinoma is not common as a primary affection of the kidney. It is usually of the encephaloid variety, and grows rapidly. The disease occurs after middle life. The amount of pain varies, and the most important symptom is free hematuria, which is not uncommonly present before a tumour can be detected. In the absence of haematuria w^e are never justified in making a diagnosis of renal cancer. Nephrectomy is only justifiable when the disease is recognised early, and holds out very little hope of cure. The Diagnosis of Renal Tumours is usually not accompanied by any great difficulty. In examination of a kidney, the patient must be placed on his back, with the knees drawn up and the shoulders supported. The Surgeon then places one hand in the flank with the tips of the fingers immediately outside the mass of the erector spinas just below the last rib, and pushes firmly forwards, while with the other hand placed flat upon the abdomen outside the edge of the rectus, he presses backwards. The kidney is thus grasped be- tween the two hands, and in this way a healthy kidney can usually be distinctly felt, and in the case of a diseased organ its size and form can be readily judged of. It is more difficult to estimate the degree of mobility in this way, as the parts to which the kidney adheres in this region are themselves movable. A tuberculous or calculous kidney which is really adherent to a mass of in- durated fat can often be moved forwards and backwards for some inches. If the tumour be large, the hand must next be passed below its border to ascertain by the absence of a pedicle passing into the pelvis that it is not ovarian. When the tumour is of such size that this cannot be done, errors are very likely to occur, and numerous cases are on record in which the most ac- complished Surgeons have been deceived, the nature of the case being ascertained only after opening the abdomen. The anterior border of the tumour must next be examined ; all renal tumours are rounded in form, jind lobulation is common. The movement during respiration must not be too much relied upon ; renal tumours move less than those of the liver, but are not as a rule fixed. The outline of the tumour must next be ascertained by percussion: it will be found that all renal tumours form an angle with the costal margin, which is less than a right angle. The reverse is the case with splenic tumours, and some of those of the fiver. The flank will be found to be persistently dull in any position in which the patient may be placed. The most characteristic sign is the presence of the colon crossing the tumour.