EXTERNAL PILES. 977 the sacculated and dilated veins that enter into the composition of the tumour. After the piles have existed for some little time, or after they have once become inflamed, the tissues that enter into their composition undergo modifications that induce corresponding alterations in the character of the tumour. The coats of the veins become thickened ; their cell-hke dilatations may be filled with coagulated blood ; the investing areolar tissue is thickened; and, on being cut into, the pile is seen to be composed of a spongy kind of tissue containing much blood. External piles, when examined after removal, often resemble in structure a mass of hypertrophied cutaneous and subcutaneous tissue, in which a number of small vessels of uniform character ramify, but without any appearance of cyst-like spaces. Internal piles, on the contrary, contain more of the venous, and less of the areolar, element. They are also commonly furnished with a small central artery, which is apt to bleed freely, or even dangerously, if the tumour be cut across ; hence, provided they are not clogged with coagulated blood, they may readily be injected from the inferior mesenteric artery. In studying the structure of hsemorrhoids, it is of importance to observe that they occur in two different forms : one in which there are distinct tumours, within or external to the anus, and another in which there is merely a varicose condition of the veins of this region, without distinct intumescence. In those cases in which there is merely a general varicose state of the veins of the submucous areolar tissue of the anus, without any distinct tumour, it will be found that the smaller branches of the haemorrhoidal plexus, and the small twigs that enter these from the submucous areolar tissue, have undergone varicose dilatation, being apparently greatly increased in number as well as in size. The mucous membrane is of a deep mulberry or port-wine colour, and becomes everted after each motion. There is usually some mucous secretion about the anus, rendering the part moist ; and the patient complains at times of weight and of bearing down, with pains either in the part itself, in the sacro-lumbar region, or in the thighs. The motions, more especially if hard, are streaked with blood, and more or less of this fluid drops in a rapid manner after the passage of the feeces. There is seldom much blood lost ; but at times there is an exacerbation of all these symptoms, and the haemorrhage, as will be mentioned more particularly hereafter, may become very abundant. This condition of the mucous membrane may precede, and is frequently found to accompany, the true pile, whether external or internal, and may be looked upon as constituting the first stage of this disease. If this state of things be allowed to continue unrelieved, the tendency to congestion increases ; more and more of the mucous membrane is everted and protruded after defsecation ; the sub- mucous areolar tissue becomes relaxed, and the case is apt to become one of partial prolapsus recti. External Haemorrhoids are those which are situated below the verge of the anus, and which are invested by cutaneous, or, at most, by muco-cutaneous tissue. Before appearing as defined tumours, they usually constitute longitu- dinal folds that surround the anal aperture, or radiate from it as from a centre; and, their tegumentary covering consisting of the thin skin of the part, they resemble folds of this tissue rather than of mucous membrane. In colour they vary from that of the natural structures to a pink or purplish hue. Their size varies, according to the state of congestion ; and hence the same VOL. II. 3 R .1