3'4 STRUCTUIiAL CHANCJEH JK nONE. Nelaton describes simple cysts of bone conLaiuiug a clear or reddish serous fluid, and lined with a smooth membrane havinj^- the appearance of a serous membrane, as being occasionally met with in the long bones. He states that the cysts may be unilocular or multilocnlar. lie describes but one case as having come under his observation. The tumour occupied the femur, from the trochanter to one inch from the condyles, expanding the whole sliaft to a great size. It was composed of an agglomeration of cysts, mostly about the size of a walnut, and separated from each other by bony septa. The cysts were filled with reddish serum. He states that two similar tumours have been recorded, one by Breschet and one by Travers. The chief symptom is a slow and almost painless enlargement of the affected bone, forming a smooth, round or oval growth. The skin covering it is of normal colour. When a certain size has been attained, so that the shell (jf bone is expanded into a very thin lamella, and before it is perforated, pressure on the tumour occasions a peculiar crackling or rustling noise, like that pro- duced by pressing together a broken egg- shell, or the crackling of tin-foil. Under this, the elasticity or even semi-fluctuation of the tumour may be felt. The fluctua- tion is particularly marked after a time, when the osseous envelope has become still more expanded, or is partially or wholly absorbed. When the shell of bone becomes very thin, spontaneous fracture may take place. Cysts of the jaws will be more fully described with the diseases of those parts. Treatment.—When the tumour is very large, removal of the affected bone may be necessary, but if it be of moderate size, so as not to have materially affected the integrity of the bone, it may suflHce to remove one side of the wall of the cyst by the trephine or by excision, and then the cavity may be allowed to granulate, and its walls to contract. This plan has proved especially success- ful in some of the cystic tumours of the lower jaw ; and I have practised it with success in a small cyst forming in the outer condyle of the humerus. Hydatids.—Hydatid disease of bone is rare. Forty-nine cases were col- lected by Gangolphe in 1886, and Targett has recently increased the number to seventy-six. Of 14 specimens in the London Museums, Targett finds that in 8 the femur or tibia is affected, in 2 the pelvis, and in 4 the spine. The disease begins in the cancellous tissue, a,nd causes gradual expansion and finally perforation of the bone. In the early stages the cancellous tissue is found infiltrated with small cysts ; the growth of the parasite taking place by bud- dino- from the outer surface of the parent cyst, and not within it as is usuaUy the%ase. Suppuration, necrosis, and spontaneous fracture are occasional results of the disease ; and when the articular end of a long bone is afTected, he neighbouring joint may be invaded. The disease is likely to be mistaken for a central sarcoma or for osteitis and necrosis from other causes. The Treatment must depend on the situation and extent of the disease, and in tbe Fif. 526.—Cells from Spindle-celled Sarcoma. "Tumour of Scapula : Fir.st recurrence.