196 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. Pig. 483.—Ligature of the Subclavian in the First Part of its Course, by Listen. Thus it will bo seen that, while the operation is bad in principle, it is most unfortunate in practice. This appalling Table needs no comment. It is, to my mind, conclusive as to the merits of the operation, the patient having, in every case but two, been carried off by secondary haemorrhage in consequence of the close proximity of numerous collateral branches (Fig. 483) ; and in the two exceptional cases the operation proved fatal, in one instance from pericarditis and pleurisy, and in the other from pyaemia, before the period at which secondary haemorrhage might have been expected. Liston, in one case, ligatured the root of th'e common carotid, as well as that of the subclavian, hoping in this way to diminish the risk of secondary hasmor- rhage, by arresting the current of blood, which by sweeping into the carotid past the mouth of the sub- clavian, would necessarily wash away any coagulum that might be formed in this artery. But hemorrhage took place as usual, and from that portion of the artery which lay on the distal side of the ligature, the blood having been carried into this end of the vessel through the connexion existing between the vessels arising from it at this point, and those on the opposite side of the head and neck, as illustrated by the annexed cut (Fig. 484), taken from the preparation of the case in the University College museum. Indeed, this is the great danger to be appre- hended after ligature of the first part of the subclavian artery, depending as it does on the anatomical relations and connexions of the vessel, which no skill on the part of the operator can in any way lessen, and which, in my opinion, ought certainly to cause the operation to be banished from surgical practice, unless further experience witii absorb- able ligatures shows that they can be applied so as to occlude the artery without risk of ulceration or division of its coats. The method of operating that has most commonly been adopted is the same as that already described, fur ligature of the root of the carotid. When the vessels are exposed, the jugular vein is drawn outwards '^itl^ ^ copper spatula, and the subclavian is thus brought into view. The needle is passed from below upwards. . Ligature of the First Part of the Left Subclavian is scarcely Fig. 4S4.—Ligature of the Subclavian and Carotid for Subclavian Aneurism, by Liston.