niSEASES OF THE UHETIIUA. an erection occurs just before waking in the morning, the mucus may be fonnH ghieing the lips of the urethra togetiier, and may be mistaken by tiie patient for a g^leet. Again, true gonorrha3al gleet must not be confounded with ni'o statorrhcea (see p. 1140). Desormeaux has shown that a true gonoiTboea! gleet IS due to the presence of chronically inflamed patches of mucous mem brane in the urethra. These patches are purplish or dark red in colour whereas the uormal urethra is a pale pink. Sometimes the surface of the mucous membrane is covered with small granulations, like those seen on the conjunctiva m granular lids. This condition Desormeaux calls ''granular urethnhsy The patches may be multiple, but more often there is only one situated in the bulbous portion of the urethra. The sijmptoms of such a condition are the following : A slight, sometimes almost colourless, sometimes yellowish, discharge will be found glueing the lips of the urethra together in the morning. This discharge is little aflFected by diet-or stimulants, but is usually greatly aggravated by connexion. If during micturition the first few drops of urine be passed into a separate vessel, flocculi of mucus and pug are seen floating in it. There is no pain or discomfort in micturition, but the stream may be slightly narrowed, and a few drops of urine may be retained in the urethra, and dribble away afterwards, as in a shght stricture. In a large number of cases of gleet the chronic inflammatory patches in the mucous membrane are sufficient to cause actual narrowing, or rather diminished extensibility of the urethra; so constantly indeed is this the case that the presence of a chronic gleet may almost be said to indicate the existence of a stricture. In other cases the gleet may be due to a chronic inflammatory discharge from the glands and follicles of the urethra. Hill states that it occasionally arises from small vegetations or warts situated immediately inside the meatus; he also drew special attention to the important part played by a contracted meatus in causing the continuance of a chronic gleet. In examining the urethra in a case of gleet, some information as to the condition of the canal may be obtained by the passage of an olive-headed bougie, meatotomy being, if necessary, performed to allow its introduction (p. 1198). If an inflamed spot be present, a slight feeling of resistance will be felt, and the patient will complain of pain as the bougie passes over it. On withdrawing the instrument a drop of blood may be found on its bulb. In these cases the most rehable information is obtained by the use of the Endoscope. In its simplest form this consists of a metal tube about the size of a No. 12 or 14 catheter, down which light may be thrown with a mirror or by an electric lamp. The most convenient instrument is that made by Leiter of Vienna. It consists of a straight metal tube which is provided with an ebony obturator to facilitate its introduction into the urethra. The expanded ocular end of the instrument, which accurately fits into the tube, contains a small electric lamp the light of which is directed down the tube by means of a mirror. Before introducing the endoscope, 10 minims of a 10 per cent, solution of cocaine should be injected into the urethra with an Ultzmann's syringe. The endoscope is then passed downwards as far as the bulb, where the diseased condition which causes a chronic gleet is most commonly situated. Granular patches and other abnormal conditions of the mucous membrane are readily recognized by an experienced observer, and, moreover, local treatment can be carried out more accurately through the tube than in any other way.