ANEUlilSM. ligature of tbe superficial femoral, in a case in which compression had been ned unavaihngly for nearly three months. In another case, in wh h I t S th external ihac artery for popliteal aneurism, owing to the superficial fern ^1 for f h1 T VfT' ' ^'^^ 1^^^^^^'°^^ '^'^ ^^"^Pletely toi a tin e as I was tightening the ligature, but then returned, and became ^ery marked m a few hours. In this case compression had been unavailingly employed before the artery was tied. ^ The prognosis of these cases is on the whole favourable, but few of thei„ having eventually proved fatal. Of 2G patients in whom pulsation occurred, I find that three died; and in all of these the fatal result was occasioned by inflammation and sloughing of the sac. In all three instances, the pulsation recurred withm the first twenty-four hours. When it returns at a more advanced period, there is little risk to the patient, as it is usually readily amenable to proper treatment. A Secondary Aneurism is of extremely rare occurrence : indeed I believe there are only two unequivocal instances of this aflFection upon record, both of which took place in the ham ; the original tumour having disappeared entirely after operation, the secondary disease made its appearance after a lapse of six months in one case, and in the other after four years. It is of importance to distinguish between a secondary aneurism and secondary or recurrent pulsation in an aneurismal sac. The term " secondary aneuris^n " should be restricted to those cases in which an aneurism appears in the site of a former one, which has undergone consolidation and absorption. The question may be' raised, whether aneurisms of the kind are in reahty secondary or whether they may not originate in the dilatation of a portion of the artery contiguous to the seat of the former disease. It is certainly not easy to under- stand how an aneurism that has once undergone consolidation and absorption can again become dilated into a pulsating tumour; and I think it most probable that, although the secondary aneurism may be found in the same region as the primary one, it in reahty takes its origin from a slightly higher part of the artery, where the same changes may have been in progress that determined the disease in the first instance. Double aneurism thus arising is, indeed, occasionally met with in the ham as a primary disease. I have seen a popliteal aneurism associated with another at or immediately above the aperture in the adductor magnus: if the artery in such a case as this had been tied before the second tumour had attained any magnitude, we can easily understand how, when this became dilated, it might have been considered to \ be a new enlargement of the original sac, whereas it was in reality a new. aneurism forming in close vicinity to the old one. Enlargement of an aneurismal sac without pulsation, after the liga- ture of the artery leading to it, is an interesting phenomenon, and one that might cause the true nature of the tumour to be misunderstood, as it closely resembles in its slow and gradual increase the growth of a malignant tumour. It is occasioned by the distension of the sac by regurgitant blood brought into it through the distal end of the vessel, without sufficient force to cause . pulsation, though sufficient to occasion a gradual increase in the size of the | swelling. Treatment of Recurrent Pulsation.—In the majority of cases secondary pulsation ceases of itself in the course of a few days or weeks from con- solidation of the sac, in the same way as after ligature of the artery, by the deposition of laminated fibrin. This tendency to consolidation may be much