966 DISBAi^ES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS.. PRUBITUB ANI. Pruritus Am is olfccu an extremely troublesome alfection, the itchina an,T general irntation about the anus being almoHt unbearable. In some case! .> 18 due to the presence of external piles or worms. In others it results W a permanently moist condition of the skin around the anus. In others a^a,^ It IS due to eczema. Excess in alcoholic stimulants, habitual constipation and other conditions nuxy give rise to it; but frequently the most carefSl investigation fails to detect any cause. The Trmknent must have reference to the cause if one can be found. If there be an external pile, the removal of It; If worms, their expulsion will probably cure the condition. If it is due to eszema, boric acid ointment with a drachm of extract of belladonna added to each ounce will frequently bring about a speedy cure. If there is a mucous discharge the frequent application of boric acid lotion may give relief Chronic constipation must be treated by the habitual use of saline aperients, or of the aperient mineral waters, as those of Pullna and Friederichshall. In some cases It seems to depend on gout, and the treatment for that disease removes the pruritus. In other cases arsenical preparations will be found useful together with the local application of chlorinated lotions or those containing hydrocyanic acid. Sometimes tar applied by means of a piece of oakum givet complete relief, but in many cases nothing succeeds. ^ ULCER AND FISSURE OP THE ANUS. This disease, though trivial in point of size and in its pathological relations, is of great practical importance, on account of the excessive local pain and great constitutional irritation to which it gives rise. Ulcer and fissure com- monly exist together, though it by no means unfrequently happens that the two conditions occur separately. The ulcer is usually of small size, seldom larger than a threepenny-piece, situated between the folds of the mucous membrane in the lower part of the rectum, just above the ring formed by the sphincter, and is usually met with towards the posterior part of the gut Occasionally more than one ulcer exists in this situation. If a fissure accom- pauy the ulcer, it commonly leads from this across the face of the sphincter to the verge of the anus ; but in many cases one or two fissures, sometimes even three or four, exist without any ulcer. The fissures are usually slightly indurated and cord-like, extending merely through the mucous membrane, scarcely, if at all, implicating the deeper structures ; and not unfrequently their external termination is concealed by a small red pile—the so-called " sentinel pile." Pathology.—The view which is usually held concerning the pathology of the painful fissure of the anus is as follows : A small tear in the mucous membrane is caused by the passage of a hard motion. This is extremely painful, because it crosses the "white line " of Hilton, which corresponds to the junction of the skin and mucous membrane, and is the position at which the numerous nerve filaments which supply the skin of the anus become superficial. The constant pain causes spasm of the sphincter, and this in its turn prevents the healing of the ulcer. It is not uncommon to find a small polypoid growth immediately above the ulcer, hanging down upon the raw surface and apparently concerned in maintaining the disease. A different explanation of the mode of origin of the painful fissure has