HERNIA. 852 stercoraceous but often very abundant and watery, witli much mucus anH shreds of blackened blood floating in it. At the same time there may b< profuse diarrhoea unaccompanied by any marked pain, the stools being dark and very offensive. Unless this condition be relieved by treatment collansc speedily sets in, the extremities become cold and congested, the pulse failV and death soon follows. Acute enteritis may possibly occur as the result of prolonged obstruction, but it is far more commonly due to the administration of powerful purgatives before the nature of the case was ascertained. The best treatment is the administration of a mixture containing a sixth of a grain of morphia and ten grains of nitrate or carbonate of bismuth every four hours At the same time no solid food must be allowed. Milk and soda-water, bai-lev water, arrowroot, or carefully prepared chicken-broth may be given. Beef-tea IS apt to Increase the diarrhoea. Brandy is frequently very useful, both as a stimulant and in arresting the diarrhoea. Management of Congested Intestine.—The condition in which the contents of the sac are found in a case of hernia determines greatly the course which the Surgeon should pursue after division of the stricture. Most frequently the intestine is deeply congested, being of a reddish purple, a claret, or chocolate colour. This congested state must not be confounded with gangrene—a mistake which might happen if the Surgeon were to judge of the condition of the bowel by its colour only. However dark this may be, the gut cannot be said to be gangrenous so long as it is polished and firm, free from putrescent odour, and without a greenish tinge. In cases in which there is much doubt as to whether its vitality continues or not, it has been proposed to scarify its surface lightly with the point of a lancet. If blood flow from the punctures, this may be taken as a proof of the continuance of the vitality of the part. Such a procedure as this, however, is certainly attended with some degree of danger, and can seldom be required. When the intestine is merely congested, however deeply, the rule is, that it should be returned into the cavity of the abdomen in the hope of its ultimately recovering. This it will generally do if it have not been too much handled after the sac has been opened ; but in some cases it will slough a few days after it has been reduced, and, the fseces being discharged through the wound, a faBcal fistula will be formed ; this may happen as late as the eighth or tenth day after the operation. In doubtful cases the wound should be left partlj open and lightly dressed with some antiseptic material, no effort being made to close the neck of the sac with the idea of obtaining a radical cure. Management of Tightly Constricted Intestine.—Wlien the intestine has been very tightly nipped by a sharp-edged stricture, so that a deep sulcus or depression is left upon it, it seldom recovers, whether the whole of the coil of gut have been thus affected, or only a small portion of its diameter. It is remarkable how very quickly changes which are incompatible with hfe may ensue in a portion of gut that has been very tightly strangulated. I have known a coil of intestine, that had been but eight hours strangulated, so tightly constricted as not to regain its vitality after reduction (Fig. 801). In such cases the patient usually dies of peritonitis in the course of a few days without the bowels having acted, all peristaltic motion having necessarily been annihilated at the injured point. On examination after death, the con- stricted intestine will be found to present all the appearances of gawjrem, being of a black or ashy-grey colour, without having any flocculi of lymph