TREATMENT OF INNOMINATE ANEURISM. 165 to have been materially relieved ; and in that instance the good eifects can hardly be attributed to the operation, but must rather be looked upon as the re'sult of suppuration of the sac and consequent obliteration of the arteries of the arm and head of the affected side. Key's patient died in consequence ,.f the left carotid becoming occluded and the brain being deprived of its proper supply of blood ; and in several other cases death is referred to hemiplegia and other cerebral diseases, 3. The Carotid and Subclavian Arteries (Pig. 473) were tied simul- taneously for the relief of innominate aneurism for the first time by Rossi in 1843, but there is some doubt as to the part of the artery to which the ligature was applied. Since that time Winslow of Baltimore has collected thirty-three cases in which this operation has been performed ; this includes the cases collected by Plolmes, Wyeth, Eosenstern, and Barwcll. Of these 34 cases Fig. 471. —Innominate Fife. 472.—Innominate Fig. 473. — Iniioniinntc Aneurism: Ligature of Aneurism: Ligature of Aneuri.sm : Ligature of 1 lie the Subclavian only. the Carotid only. Subclavian and Carotid. 22 recovered from the operation. Four of these died after periods varying from two to six months from causes directly connected with the aneurism— two from rupture of the sac, one from hsemorrhage from the trachea, and one from dyspnoea. In five cases the effect of the operation is not stated. One case is merely stated to have been improved and another not cured. Of the remaining 11 cases which recovered, 2 were still alive and well when last seen ; 5 seemed to be cured or were improved after periods varying from six months to 3 years. Little's case lived three and a half years, dying at last of pleurisy ; the aneurism was practically cured. One of Barwell's cases died after twenty months of bronchitis, another after 3 months from the same cause, and Stimson's cases after twenty-one months of phthisis ; in all of these the aneurism was practically cured. Of the 12 fatal cases four died irom hfemorrhage, two from rupture of the sac, two from asphyxia, one from cerebral anemia, one from exhaustion, one from shock, and one from the anesthetic.