558 DEFOEMITIES OF THE LEO AND FOOT. require separate division in tiie treatment of congenital talipes varus, it will be well to describe here the methods by which the tendons of the tibialis posticus and tibialis aiiticiis may be divided if necessary. In the section of the tibialis posticus tendon behind the ankle, there is much danger of wounding the posterior tibial artery, which lies close to it The best way to avoid this vessel is, as Tamplin recommends, to puncture the sheath with a sharp tenotome introduced close to the tibia, immediately above the malleolus ( Fig. 05-1). In adults or young children past the age of infancy a small point of bone can be felt in this situation, which marks the upper limit of the groove in the malleolus in which the tendon lies. The puncture should be made above this, otherwise the knife cannot be passed under the tendon After the sheath has thus been opened by a puncture, a blunt tenotome is introduced, care being taken not to use so much force as to push it through the sheath on the opposite side. The tendon is then divided in the usual way. If the operation be performed too high up the limb, the flexor longus digitorum will be divided with the tendon of the tibialis posticus, but this is a matter of little moment. The tibialis anticus must be divided at the point marked in Fig, 654. The tenotome must be .passed from the outer side to avoid any risk of wounding the dorsal artery of the foot. In spite of all treatment, however, a considerable proportion of cases of con- genital talipes equino-varus are at most only partially relieved. In such c.ises, as the child grows up the muscles fail to develop, and the bones become altered in form so as to adapt them to their abnormal position. In such extreme cases, various operations have been recommended to enable the patient to bring the sole of his foot to the ground. Many years ago Little suggested the removal of the cuboid in order to assist in overcoming the ad- duction of the anterior part of the foot. This operation was performed with success by Solly in 1857, but did not come into general use. In 1872, Lund of Manchester removed the astragalus from each foot of a child, with the result of obtaining considerable improvement in the position of the feet. In 1876, E. Davy repeated the operation in several cases, obtaining good results, but was not able to dispense with prolonged use of apparatus after- wards. In 187G, Davies-Colley recorded a case in which he removed a wedge- shaped piece of the tarsus of sufficient size to allow of the anterior part of the foot being brought into a straight line with the posterior. The operation was performed by a long incision on the outer side of the foot from the middle of the OS calcis to the middle of the fifth metatarsal bone. From the middle of this another was carried across part of the dorsum. The cuboid was first excised, after which a wedge-shaped portion of the tarsus was removed " without paying any regard to its articulations." The bones taken away in- cluded the whole cuboid, parts of the os calcis, and of the three cuneiform bones, nearly all the scaphoid, and a part of the astralagus. R. Davy com- mences by removing an oblong piece of skin from the outer side of the foot including the false bursa. He then makes a vertical incision on the iuuer side of the foot in the deep crease that is always present, and of sufficient length to include the thickness of the scaphoid bone. The soft parts are next raised from the dorsum and a "kite-shaped" director specially designed for this purpose is passed between them and the bones. The tarsus is then divided by means of a probe-pointed saw which is guided at first by two