65 TREATMENT OF VARIX. far the most efficient is the excision of a portion of the vein between two liga- tures. This operation may safely be undertaken if any efficient mode of anti- septic treatment be adopted. Without this it is not unattended with danger from septic changes in the thrombus followed by pyeemia. Before the operation the position of the affected veins should be marked on the limb with an aniline pencil, whilst the patient is standing. This is far better than the application of a bandage round the upper part of the limb during the operation, as it is inconvenient to operate when the veins are distended. The limb must then be wrapped for at least half an hour in a towel soaked in carbolic lotion (1 in 20), and-finally sponged with a solution of perchloride of mercury (1 in 500). The varicose vessel is then exposed by a small longitudinal incision about an inch in length. The vein is next separated from the suiTounding tissues, seized in two pairs of forci-pressure forceps and divided. Each end of the vein is then drawn firmly out of the wound and ligatured with fine silk or chromicized catgut. Finally, the two portions of the vessel are cut off close to the ligatures, any small tributaries entering them having previously been tied. The operation is repeated in as many places as may seem to be necessary to ensure the complete occlusion of the diseased vein. The edges of each wound may be brought together by horse-hair sutures, after which an absorbent antiseptic wool dressing may be applied and left untouched for a week, at the end of which time the small wounds will usually be healed. In some cases in which the main trunk of a vein, especially the internal saphenous, is chiefly affected, it may be thought advisable to excise the vessel more widely through a long incision over it. It is doubtful, however, whether this gives a better result than the removal of two or three short pieces in the manner above described. It not uncommonly happens that varicose veins of the lower extremity which seem suitable for operation are associated with the presence of an ulcer in the lower third of the leg, and the question arises whether this complication is a further indication or not for undertaking the operation. Undoubtedly the obliteration of the diseased veins favours the cicatrization of the ulcer, but it is equally certain that with efficient dressing in the recumbent position such ulcers very rarely fail to heal. As, therefore, the presence of the ulcer must add to the risk of septic contamination of the operation wounds, it is probably wise as a rule to defer the operation until the ulcer has healed. The obhteration of the veins wih then probably render the healing permanent. If however the operation be undertaken whilst the ulcer is still unhealed, the latter should first be thoroughly cleaned and dressed antiseptically, and the dressing may be left undisturbed until the wounds have united. • Before the introduction of the antiseptic treatment of wounds various sub- cutaneous methods were employed for the obhteration of varicose veins :— 1. A simple but uncertain method consisted in the division of the vein by a subcutaneous incision, followed by the application of a compress and bandage. 2. At one time the treatment almost universally employed consisted in compressing the vessel at several points by passing a hare-lip pin underneath It, laymg a piece of wax bougie over it, and then applying a figure-of-8 suture around the pin and over the bougie. By this means obliteration of the vem was produced by the pressure exercised upon it, and the presence of the bougie prevented the ligature from injuring the skin. The pins were removed VOL. II. ^ F