DISEASES OF ARTERIES. lOO into the main trunk from a thrombosed branch, as in Fig. 442. The eflTects produced vary with the nature of the embolus and its size. When derived from the vegetations on the valves in ulcerative endocarditis it may give rise to inflammation and softening of the coat of the artery at the point at which it lodges (see Embolic Arteritis, p. 80) ; more commonly it leads merely to obliteration of the artery by the ordinary processes already described. If it lodge in a small artery in a part in which the anastomosing circulation is free, it produces no effect beyond the permanent closure of the vessel; if it lodge in a terminal artery, as in one of the abdominal viscera, it gives rise to the formation of a hasmorrhagic infarct (Vol. I., p. 981), followed by the sulj- sequent degeneration and shrinking of the affected area. These old infarcts, forming wedged-shaped butl'-coloured patches of considerable toughness, are commonly met with in the spleen and kidneys in cases of advanced atheroma or fusiform aneurism of the aorta. When the embolus is large and lodges in i a main trunk, as in the popliteal at its bifurcation, or in the axillary, sponta- i iieous gangrene may result. This is the most common source of gangrene iu young people, and is probably the immediate cause of a certain proportion ol cases of senile gangrene, the embolus in the latter case being derived from the diseased surface of an atheromatous aorta. The case from which the i accompanying drawing (Fig. 443) was taken was that of a w'oman 56 years of age admitted for spontaneous gangrene of the left arm ; the embolus lodged in the axillary artery had caused gangrene of the limb. The figure illustrates t also the thrombosis of the vessel below the part at which the embolus has; lodged, which frequently aids in the production of gangrene. Gradual narrowing of an artery, ending perhaps in complete obliteration,. causes few or no symptoms when the area affected is limited in extent and . the collateral circulation is sufficiently active to keep up the supply of blood . to the parts beyond the obstruction. The gradual narrowing of a considerable • extent of the main vessels of the limb, such as is seen frequently from cal- - careous degeneration of the tibial arteries, gives rise to more or less definite t effects, such as cold feet, cramps, numbness, and weakness of the legs. Such i symptoms are often the premonitory signs of gangrene (see Vol. I., p. 904),; and are an indication that care must be taken to keep the parts warm by appropriate clothing and to avoid any injury. The symptoms of embolism of ^ a large trunk have already been described (Vol. I., p. 906). r 4 .r