FLEXION, 145 occurred in more than one case. It appears to have been due to thrombosis takiut? place in the vein, and possibly also in the capillaries of the parts in the neighbourhood of the aneurism from which the blood had not been expelled. This, with the simultaneous occlusion of the artery, would offer an amount of obstruction to the circulation which would almost certainly end in gangrene. The only means of avoiding it seems to be by carrying the bandage lightly over the tumour, whereby the veins may be emptied while the fulness of the sac is not interfered with. The expulsion of so large an amount of blood from the limb necessarily raises the arterial tension in the rest of the body; consequently the use of the elastic bandage is not to be recommended when the patient is aff"ected with an internal aneurism which might rupture under the strain. For the same reason it should be avoided when there is a suspicion of fatty heart. The elastic bandage is most likely to succeed in effecting a cure in aneurisms that are beginning to undergo consolidation. It is of little use in aneurisms that are large and rapidly increasing, with thin walls and fluid contents. Flexion.—The treatment of aneurism by flexion of the contiguous joint is a method that is rarely applicable to any other form of the disease than the popliteal. The history of this plan of treating aneurisms is interesting, as an illustration of the gradual steps by which Surgery usually arrives at its dtimate results. It had been long known to Surgeons that the pulse at the wrist might be arrested by the forcible flexion of the forearm on the arm ; and Malgaigne and Eichet had recommended this means for the arrest of hemor- rhage from the brachial artery and the arteries of the forearm when wounded. Flemy—a distinguished French naval Surgeon—having succeeded in curing a wound of the brachial artery by forced flexion of the elbow, aided by .direct compression, and one of the radial by flexion of the wrist, published in 1846 a memoir in which he stated, as a conclusion from his observations, that any aneurism of the forearm or leg might be treated by means of flexion of the hmb in which it was situated. To A. Thierry is due the honour of havmg been the first to cure a traumatic aneurism of the bend of the arm by flexion of the hmb. This was in 1852 (Eichet, Diet. d& Med. et de GUrurgie, Vol. II., p. 338). In 1857, Mannoir of Geneva applied the flexion treatment to a large aneurism of the ham. Forced flexion could not be borne on account of the pain it occasioned, and the patient was therefore allowed to walk on crutches with the leg bent, and supported in a kind of a stirrup attached to the opposite shoulder. In less than three weeks the cure was effected^ which Mannoir found a year afterwards to be permanent. In 1858,_Hart apphed this method of treatment successfully in a case of popliteal aneurism, and to him is due the merit of having first introduced it into this country. _ Flexion is necessarily applicable only to arteries situated in the bend of jomts, as the elbow or ham, in which the circulation can be directly controlled by bending the hmb, or in traumatic aneurisms in the limbs below these joints m which the flow of blood through the feeding artery can be stopped in the same way. Its application is therefore somewhat limited, and its use is still farther restricted by the pain and insupportable annoyance occasioned in many cases by foiled flexion of the limb, necessitating, as in Mannoir's car a relaxation of the method, which, however, was still effective in curino [.he aneurism. ^yxv^^^ i.ue VOL. II.