1249 SYMPTOMS OF VARICOCELE. VARICOCELE. Varix, or Enlargement of the Spermatic Veins, is a disease that is commonly met with from the age of puberty to about the thirtieth year, seldom commencing later than this. It usually occurs m feeble individuals having the scrotum lax and pendulous ; and in some cases appears to have been brought on by venereal excesses. The spermatic veins passing from the testicle and epididymis form a con- siderable plexus of small vessels in the cord, known as the pampiniform plexus. In the inguinal canal the branches join into two or three veins, and these aaain into a single vessel which accompanies the spermatic artery beneath the peritoneum on the psoas muscle and opens on the right side into the vena cava, and on the left into the renal vein. The effect of this arrangement is that the lower part of the veins is subject to considerable tension from the weight of the long column of blood. In varicocele the veins undergo changes similar to those already described in varices of the lower limb ; they become dilated and thickened, except where thin-walled pouches form in the walls, and are very tortuous. When cut across the open mouths of the vessels stand open like that of an artery. The veins of the left side are much more frequently affected than those of the riirht side and never, I believe, are the right veins affected without those of the left side participating in the disease. In these cases of double varico- cele, the left side is almost invariably the more seriously affected ; but I have seen exceptions to this in one or two instances. Various theories have been advanced in explanation of this peculiar liability of the left side to be affected. The theory that there is an obstacle at the mouth of the left vein, due to its pouring its contents into the renal vein at right angles to the flow of blood through that vessel into the vena cava, is probably altogether erroneous. Possibly the pressure of a loaded sigmoid flexure "on the left spermatic vein may in some instances serve as a partial exnlanation. It does not appear that any constant difference exists in the arrangement of the valves on the two sides ; a valve is usually present at the termination of each vein ; this is not unf requently absent on the left side, but, according to Eivington, a valve will then generally be found in the renal vein close to the entrance of the spermatic, W. G-. Spencer, who believes that vari- cocele is due to a persistence and subsequent enlargement of foetal veins, which usually disappear, finds that at an early period the veins of the left spermatic cord are much more numerous than those of the right. Symptoms.—The symptoms of varicocele consist of a tumour of pyramidal shape, having a soft knotted or knobbed feel, owing to the irregularly swollen and convoluted condition of the veins, with its base upon the testis and the apex' stretching up to the external ring. The swelling increases when the patient stands up, if he take a deep inspiration, cough, or make any violent exertion. Its size varies from slight fulness of the veins to a large mass, ^^veral inches in circumference at the base. When the patient lies down, it ^^oes up to a certain extent, but immediately returns to its forrher magnitude when he stands up. It is attended by a sensation of weight and sometimes of pain of a neuralgic character, which is occasionally very acute in the scrotum, the groins, and the loins, more particularly when the tumour is unsupported. This pain is greatly increased on the patient walking or riding ; so that in VOL. II. 4 1,