FEMORAL HERNIA. 882 is intended that the canal may eventually be closed by a dense plus? of fiV.,.. tissue. P "f= nuious The Results of the operation have been very satisfactory. Banks ha* recorded 25 cases with one death, which occurred from septicaemia aftT operation on a very large hernia; Eushton Parker has performed 25 oDer ' tions on 20 persons with one death. In the large majority of cases the cuJp appears to be permanent. Treatment of Strangulated Femoral Hernia.—When a femoral l upture is strangulated, reduction should be effected either by taxis or by operation as speedily as possible, gangrene ensuing more rapidly in this than in any other form of hernia. In attempting taxis, the structures in the groin sliould be well relaxed by flexing the thigh upon the abdomen, and abducting it, which relaxes the margin of the saphenous opening ; if it do not succeed, the opera- tion should be proceeded with at once. The Operation may most conveniently be performed when the tumour is small by making an incision by transfixion along the inner side of its neck If the hernia be of considerable size some Surgeons prefer to expose it more freely by an "1 -shaped incision, the vertical limb of which passes alon<^ the inner side of the sac and the horizontal limb parallel to Poupart's ligament and immediately below it; but this extensive incision is rarely if ever neces- sary. In whichever way the first incision be made the dissection must next be carried through the superficial fascia and the cribriform fascia, when the fascia propria (crural sheath and septum crurale fused together) will be exposed. In some cases, especially if the hernia be a large one, this is thin, but in many instances it is so dense, laminated, and changed in structure, as scarcely to be recognized for what it is. It not unfrequently happens that, after the superficial fascia has been divided, an oval, smooth, and firm body is exposed, which at first looks like the hernial sac, or a lump of omentum ; this is in reality the fascia propria, thickened by the long-continued pressure of the truss, and congested perhaps by the attempts at reduction ; and in the midst of it the sac will at last be found, after the dissection has been carried throusfh several layers of this tissue. Cysts containing bloody serum may occasionally be found in it, and then the difficulty in the recognition of the structures is greatly increased. When the sac has been exposed it must be opened very carefully, there being often very little if any fluid between it and its contents; the finger-nail must then be passed under the sharp edge of the stricture, which should be divided in a direction upwards and inwards. The reason why this line of incision is universally chosen is, that it is the only direction in which the stricture can be divided without risk of inflicting serious injury upon neighbouring parts. If the section be made outwards, the femoral vein will be in danger ; if upwards and outwards, the epigastric artery ; if directly upwards, the spermatic cord: hence the only direction is either inwards, or upwards and inwards. If the cut be made inwards, the sharp edge of Gim- bernat's ligament alone will be divided, and the crural arch not sufficiently liberated. But if the division be made upwards and inwards, the tension of the whole of the arch is lessened ; the only danger that can occur from the division of the stricture in this direction is the very remote one of wounding the obturator artery, when it takes the anomalous course round the inside of the neck of the sac. Guthrie states that he has known some of the best Surgeons in London lose patients by hfemorrhage after the operation for femoral