T CHRONIC CONTRACTION OF KNEE-JOINT 547 described, is very considerable ; for, as the j.atient can never bring the heel „r sole to the ground, he rests insecurely on the tips of his toes, and walks but ) unsteadily with the aid of a cratch or stick. .-^ . J Althouo-h chronic contraction of the knee may arise from many different , causes, the essential condition, which is common to all, is that the joint is • allowed to remain in a position of prolonged flexion. As the result of this hose structures which are relaxed by flexion gradually become shortened and resist all attempts at extension. Among the structures thus affected may be mentioned the ligament of Winslow, the anterior crucial ligament, the hamstring muscles, and in extreme cases the skin of the popliteal space. _ In the majority of cases, however, the deformity is not limited to simple flexion, but is marked also by a varying degree of backward displacement of the head of the tibia and external rotation of the leg. The partiid dislocation backwards of the head of the tibia is largely the result i)f the prolonged flexion, for in this position the hamstrings act at a considerable advantage over the extensors, and will tend to draw the head of the tibia backwards into the ham (Fig. 643). In cases in which the contraction results from inflammatory changes in the knee, this displacement of the tibia is partly dependent upon i)ftening and consequent relaxation of the posterior crucial and lateral ligaments. The displacement re- laxes the anterior crucial ligament, which gradually becomes shortened and offers the chief obstacle to extension. The external rotation of the leg which is so often also present is probably produced by different causes. It results in part no doubt from the natural tendency of the limb to roll outwards when the ligaments of the knee are relaxed, and may also be partly occasioned by the action of the biceps. We thus see that in a well-marked case of chronic contraction of the knee the deformity is of a threefold character : flexion, displacement of the head of the tibia backwards, and rotation of the leg and foot outwards. The most important division of these cases of contracted knee depends upon the presence or absence of osseous ankylosis. In the majority of cases in which osseous ankylosis does not exist, the deformity results from consolidation of the ligamentous structures in and around the joint. "When the contraction follows rheumatic inflammation the capsule and ligaments are the parts chiefly affected. When it follows tuberculous disease, as is indeed most common, the internal structures of the joint are more or less disorganised, and the deformity is maintained by firm fibrous adhesion. In these cases the knee is usually fixed at or near a right angle, and is capable of but very limited motion. The hamstring muscles are not tense, unless the knee is extended to its utmost; and, indeed, in some cases they are flaccid, and feel soft. Not unfrequently the leg can be extended up to a N N 2 Fig. 643.—Chronic Contraction of Knee-joint; Head of Tibia dra'wn backwards.