DISEASES OF THE FOOT. 464 terra implying that the patients were enabled afterwards to walk without artificial apparatus or support. Of the remaining IG, in (>, crutches or other apparatus were uecessary ; in 7, subsequent amputation was required on account of return of the disease or inutility of the foot ; and there wei'e H deaths. Resection of the entire bone—in a few cases with other portions of the tarsus—appears to have been performed in ;59 of the 55 cases: of these, ;)0 were altogether successful; in 4, artificial support was necessary; 2 required subse(]uent amputation, and 3 died. The operation, according to Polaillon, has been more successful in children than in adults. He states that, of 12 cases under 10 years old, all were successful; between the ages of 10 and 20, there were 14 successful cases, and 3 failures ; between 20 and 30, 7 successes and 9 failures ; and between 30 and 40, G successful cases and 3 failures. Repro- duction of the bone occurred in 12 cases ; 11 being in individuals under 20 years of age. The Astragalus is situated in a position of great surgical importance. Articulating with the malleolar arch above, with the calcaneum below, and with the scaphoid in front—forming, as it were, the keystone of the foot—it is perfectly evident that any disease commencnig in it is very likely to spread to and involve all the more im- portant structures of the foot. Seldom indeed does disease origi- nating in this bone long remain confined to it ; and, so far as my experience goes, gouging opera- tions, even if j)erformed at an early period, are rarely of much benefit, the morbid process con- Fig. oPO—Disease of Astragalus. tinuiug to extend notwithstand- ing their employment. Indeed, in diseased astragalus, I believe that excision ought, as a rule, to be practised in preference to gouging, contrary to what is the case in the calcaneum. Disease primarily originating in the astragalus may spread in three direc- tions • upwards into the ankle-joint, downwards to the calcaneum, forwards to the scaphoid, and thence through the large anterior synovial membrane to the rest of the tarsal bones. The treatment will vary according to the direction and extent of the disease. It may be arranged under four heads:— ^ . ■ • fi 1 When the astragalus alom is diseased we find what is seen m tne drawino- (Fig 59G), which represents the foot of a boy whose astragalus I excised—swelling just in front of the malleolar arch, with sinuses leadmg down to the diseased bone ; the anterior part of the foot and the heel bemg quite sound. If the disease is limited to the outer side of the bone, or to its head it is possible that, by freely opening the sinuses and applying the gouge, the caries may be entirely removed. But this operation is not so satisfactory here as elsewhere in the foot, as it is by no means easy to avoid opening he astra-alo-scaphoid articulation ; and if this be done, disease will probably eftend thiUgh the tarsal articulations. Excision of the asti-aga us alone, tfough sometimes required for disease, is perhaps more frequently called for n those cases of compiund dislocation in which the bone undergoes canes or necrosis.