DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. Il82 urates, and care not to allow the urine to become too concentrated Atten tion to the maintenance of the healthy action of the liver and skin will also tonH much to mcrease the patient's comfort, and to ward oflP the more serious orm sequences of stricture. In all except the slightest cases of stricture it is advisable, before befrinnin.. mechanical treatment, to subject the patient to constitutional remedies I dimmish as far as possible the congestion and spasm which may be present Tf any serious difficulty be anticipated, and if the circumstances of the patien permit it, he should be confined to bed for a day or more. The bowels should be freely opened, and he should sit for some time in a hot hip-bath, raorninff and evening. A morphia suppository may be administered at night, and if the signs of congestion be well marked, a few leeches may be applied to the perineum. Occasionally blisters over the seat of stricture, when it can be felt clearly from without, may be of service. By these means alone, a stricture which at first seemed almost impermeable may be so far relieved as to take a No. 4 or 5 catheter. 1. Gradual Mechanical Dilatation, as it is erroneously termed, is the usual and certainly the most successful mode of treating ordinary strictures ; Pig. 916.—Conical Bulbous Bougie. but it is not the mere stretching or forcible dilatation of the stricture that cures it. The means employed to produce dilatation tend to promote the ab- sorption of chronic inflammatory products in and underneath the mucous membrane, which especially constitute the stricture. The instruments that are used for dilatation are either metallic, such as Fig. 917.—Conical Bulbous Catheter. silver catheters, steel sounds, or plated bougies; or made of some soft and yielding material, as gum-elastic catheters, and catgut, whalebone, or elastic \ bougies. Though each Surgeon will mostly prefer one kind of instrument to another, it is well not to be too exclusive in the use of any one ; for it will be found that in particular cases it is advantageous to depart from the . ordinary practice, and that the Surgeon may modify with great benefit to his patient the mechanical means that he adopts. As a general rule, if the stricture can be treated from the first by soft instruments, so much the better. , They cause less pain and irritation, and the danger of making false passages is avoided. When the stricture is tight, cartilaginous and of old standing, j it is, however, frequently impossible to pass any soft instrument through it, ' and then a well-made steel bougie or a silver catheter must be used. When once dilatation has been carried to a certain point, for instance to the intro- duction of a No. 5 catheter, then soft instruments can always be employed if preferred ; but at this stage of the treatment, when the risk of making a false