23 TREATMENT OF SCIATICA. effect. Hot baths usually give considerable relief. Stinuilabiug applications, as the ammonia or compound camphor liniment, may be of use ; and sedatives, as the opium or belladonna liniment, may ease the pain, but they do little to cure. Hypodermic injection of cocaine has proved very useful. Gowers recommends that the injections be made pretty deeply, but not into the nerve ; the dose may be rapidly increased Irom one-twelfth to a third or half a grain. Hypodermic injections of morphia should be resorted to only when the patient is suffering from want of sleep due to the pain. They exert no curative influence. If the constitutional treatment and external applications fail, as they very frequently do, two modes of treatment may be adopted—acupuncture and nerve-stretching. Acupuncture is thus performed. The patient is laid on his face, and the tender points of the nerve found by pressure. Long fine needles are then thrust in so as if possible to puncture the nerve. When the needle touches the nerve the patient complains of a sudden pain down the thigh. The number of the needles used should not exceed six. They may be left in for a few minutes. This treatment sometimes gives permanent relief. Our last resource is, however, Stretching the Sciatic KTerve. (See Yol. I., p. 498.) This operation has been more successful in sciatica than in any other painful affection for which it has been undertaken. Nocht has collected 24 cases : of these 16 were quickly, 5 slowly, relieved ; in 2 the operation failed; and 1 died. Marshall finds that of 9 cases which occurred in University College Hospital, 4 were decidedly improved, 4 were relieved, and 1 failed. The operation is thus performed. The patient is laid upon his face and a vertical incision, about three inches in length, is made a little above the middle of the back of the thigh. The deep fascia is opened and the contiguous borders of the semitendinosus and biceps are separated with the finger. The wound being now held open by copper spatulae, the sciatic nerve comes into view and is raised out of the wound by passing the finger beneath it, the knee being flexed to relieve it from tension. It is then pulled forcibly in both directions for about five minutes. Marshall demon- strated that any force which can be applied while holding the nerve between the finger and thumb may safely be used. The experiments of Johnson, Trombetta, Ceccherelli, and others, have sho^vn. that the breaking strain of a healthy sciatic nerve is never under eighty pounds. The wound after the operation must be carefully drained and dressed by some antiseptic method, and it is better to apply an anterior splint for a week or ten days. Some Surgeons prefer exposing the nerve at a higher point, IdcIow the lower border of the gluteus maximus. If the operation be performed at this point, the whole of the hamstring muscles together must be drawn to the inner side of the wound, and the nerve sought for external to them. If necessary, the lower fibres of the gluteus may be divided. There is no particular advantage in this mode of operating, and the resulting wound is deeper and more difficult to treat owing to its situation. Trombetta and Billroth suggested stretching the nerve by means of forcible flexion of the hip with the knee extended and the foot flexed. That a very great strain can be put upon the nerve in this way is evident, and the method might very well be tried before proceeding to the more severe opera-