SUPRAPUBIC LITHOTOMY. io43 Up to a comparatively recent period the Lateral Operation, Factised^^^^ (<heselden and modified by Liston, was that wh^h was f ^ hy Surgeons, and one which in skilful hands yielded excellent results. Since general application of lithotrity to the removal of stones of sma 1 and .aedkim size, and the consequent restriction of lithotomy to those of con- siderable magnitude, the suprapubic operation has taken the place ot the lateral as being the method by which large calculi can more safely be '^Although the suprapubic operation has now very largely superseded the median and lateral, and their modifications in those cases of vesical calculus that do not admit of the removal of the stone by lithotrity, yet it is not universally employed, the lateral and the median having still their advocates. lor this reason and also for the fact that no description of Hthotomy can be considered complete without an account of those methods that have so largely filled the minds of the greatest Surgeons of all times, I have thought it best to describe and to compare as heretofore the various methods which have been devised for " cutting for the stone," as the operation was termed by the older Surgeons Suprapubic Lithotomy.—The high or suprapubic operation was first per- formed by Pierre Franco in 1560 at Lausanne. He had commenced to cut a child by the apparatus minor, when he found the stone to be of the size of a hen's egg. and too large to be extracted by the perinaeum. The parents insisted, howevei^that it should be removed in some way, and seeing the stone forming I prominence above the pubes when pushed forward from the rectum, Franco cut down upon it and successfully removed it. He did not, however, repeat the operation, and suprapubic lithotomy cannot be said to have become a recognised surgical proceeding till the early part of the eighteenth century, when it was practised and perfected by Douglas and Cheselden. The results obtained were certainly better than those of the median operation then chiefly in vogue ; but after the perfection of the lateral operation by Cheselden, supra- pubic Hthotomy again went out of fashion, being reserved only for those cases in which the stone was too large to be extracted by the perineum. The objections to the operation were its tediousness and painfulness, and the dangers of wound of the peritoneum and urinary extravasation. Lately the operation has agaui been revived, at first with the idea that by antiseptic treat- ment the wound in the bladder could be closed by sutures, and union by first intention obtained. The revival of the operation has led to improvements in the details of its performance, and to a large extent it has replaced other methods. Operation.—The high operation consists in making an incision through the abdominal wall, above the pubes, and opening the anterior part of the bladder below the reflection of the peritoneum. In order to do this safely it is necessary to raise the apex of the bladder, and with it the peritoneum, as high as possible above the pubes. For this purpose the most important measure consists in distending the bladder with water or air. The former is usually employed ; but Bristowe, of Brooklyn, found by experiment that by means of inflation with air the bladder is more thoroughly raised. In 1878 Grarson showed by experiments on the dead body that by injecting the rectum at the same time, the whole bladder could be pushed upwards so as to become an abdominal rather than a pelvic organ, and the reflection of the peritoneum was carried from two to three inches above the pubes. In 1880 Petersen, of 3x2