302 STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN BONE. The starchy materials in the food probably take no active part in the pro- duction of the disease, but replace those necessary constituents which the cliild is capable of digesting. It has indeed been suggested that rickets is caused by an excess of lactic acid resulting from fermentation of imperfectly digested starch ; the lactic acid unites with the lime of the bones and converts it into a soluble salt. There is no evidence in favour of this view, and Cheadle has raised the serious objection that it would be inadequate to explain more than the bone changes of rickets, which must not be looked upon as the only result of the disease. Everything, indeed, suggests that the error of a diet which produces rickets is that it lacks some essential constituent and not that it con- tains any directly harmful substance. Cheadle is of opinion that this error consists chiefly in a deficiency of animal fats, aided perhaps by insufficiency of earthy phosphates and animal proteids. In support of this opinion he cites a case of most extreme rickets occurring in a child fed on skim milk, and also the beneficial effect of cod-liver oil. The cure of rickets in the hon cubs at the Zoological Gardens, which were fed only on horse-flesh, by giving them cod-liver oil and pounded bones with milk, is a remarkahle instance of the part played by an improper diet in the production of the disease. It is generally believed that the offspring of feeble mothers show a special tendency to become rickety. The health of the father has not been shown to exert any influence. Parrot maintained that syphihs in the parents may cause rickets in the child, but against this there is, as Jenner has pointed out, one unanswerable argument : in a family of rickety children, j as a rule, the younger members are most affected, while in inherited syphilis it is exactly the reverse. Tubercle and scrofula have no definite connexion with rickets; in fact they are seldom met with in the same subject. A deficiency of lime in the water of the district has also been stated to be a cause of this disease, but this is evidently not the case, for rickets is far more common in London, which is supplied with water containing a con- siderable amount of lime, than in Glasgow, where the water contains merely a trace. Symptoms.—These may be divided into general symptoms and those referable to the changes in the bones. The general symjjtoms are the follow- ing : the child may be thin, but is more often apparently well nourished, sometimes very fat. Its mucous membranes are pale, but the cheeks are often redder than natural. On careful examination with a lens, however, this will ; be seen to be caused by a network of dilated capillaries in the true skin. A most characteristic sign is profuse sweating of the forehead when the child is asleep, the rest of the body often being at the same time hot and dry, though the thermometer rarely shows any marked elevation of temperature. There is often general tenderness of the body, so that any handling is painful; partly in consequence of this and partly from the heat of the body, the child kicks off its bed-clothes at night, so that it is sometimes impossible to keep it covered, unless it is made to sleep in flannel drawers and a jersey. The digestion is often good, but there is a tendency to attacks of gastric catarrh, with a furred white tongue and perhaps vomiting. The motions are clay- coloured and offensive. Flatulence is common, and owing to the weakness of the muscles, which is often a marked effect of rickets, the child usually becomes pot-bellied. The spleen is frequently enlarged, and in some cases the liver also. The urine, as a rule, presents nothing characteristic. It may contain