UAIHILICA L HERNIA. 884 UMBILICAL HERNIA. By Umbilical Hernia or Exomphalos is meant a protrusion throuf/h the umbilical aperture. It occurs either in children or in adults. Umbilical Hernia in Children is sometimes congenital. At an early period of foetal life, a great part of the intestinal canal lies without the abdomen and is o'radually drawn in as development advances. Congenital umbilical hernia or true exomphalos is the result of an imperfection in this process. In other cases a diverticulum from the ileum, due to an imperfect closure of the vitelline duct, may extend some distance up the cord from the navel. In either of these conditions it may happen that the protrusion is included in the ligature applied to the umbilical cord. If a large portion of intestine be strangulated in this way, a fatal result usually follows ; but if it be merely a diverticulum, the stump of the cord may separate safely, the opening in the gut being obliterated. In other cases a fecal fistula may form at the umbilicus. Umbilical hernia occurs more frequently shortly after birth in consequence of the child straining and crying, forming the condition termed by nurses "starting of the navel." In this form the umbilical cicatrix yields, the natural depression being completely replaced by the projection of the hernia. It is readily recog- nized, by the presence of a smooth, rounded, and tense tumour, starting forwards at the umbilicus, readily reducible on pressure. The treatment should consist in the application of a small pad, made of a slice of cork, wrapped in a soft piece of lint and powdered with starch. This must be secured in position by a circular piece of soap-plaster spread on amadou, or of the American rubber- plaster. An elastic belt with an air-pad is sometimes recommended, and may be applied to older children, but in infants it is quite useless, as the variation in size of the abdomen, according to the amount of flatus in the intestines, is such that no bandage can be really efficient. It most commonly happens that, after pressure has in this way been kept up for some months, a radical cure results ; it is very rare to see one in a child ten years of age, though in infants we meet with them by the score. Strangulation of umbilical hernia in infants is excessively rare. In a case of this nature in University College Hospital, the child was two months old; herniotomy was successfully performed, and the sac was found to contain con- gested and swollen gut and about a drachm of blood-stained fluid. Umbilical Hernia in Adults most frequently occurs in women, especially those who have borne many children, or who are loaded with internal fat. It is by no means unlikely that a tendency to this disease is often established in childhood, but does not become developed until the abdominal muscles have been relaxed by the pressure of the gravid uterus. The hernia in adults does not as a rule stretch the umbilical cicatrix in the skin. This is usually clearly recognizable at the lower part of the tumour, the hernia most commonly escaping through the upper part of the umbilical aperture. Umbilical rupture generally attains a considerable bulk, and often acquires an enormous size ; when large, it is commonly irregular or semilunar in shape, sometimes appearing to be composed of several distinct tumours. It is usually partly doughy and partly tympanitic to the feel, has a distinct impulse on coughing, and is readily reducible ; nob unfrequently, however, it happens that a portion of the rupture continues irreducible, owing to the existence of