68i LEUCOFLAKIA. an exaggeration of the process already described. At some point, possibly as the result of injury, the small round cells become increased in number by migration from the vessels, the epithelium becomes loosened and is rubbed off by "the movements of the tongue, and a raw surface is thus left, from which ulceration may gradually extend. A more serious result is the supervention of carcinoma, which is a common termination of the disease. Microscopic examination of a tongue in which this is taking place may show all the stages of the disease in one section : at the margin of the patch will be enlarged papillfB covered with a thick layer of epithelium ; nearer the centre the papillas have disappeared, the corium being covered by a thick layer of epithelium, the greater part of which is composed of flattened horny scales ; near the centre the cells of the rete mucosum are seen to be growing actively and forming columns which force their way into the spaces of the submucous tissue, and further on, amongst the muscular fibres. These columns are surrounded by the zone of small-cell infiltration always seen at the edge of a growing cancer (Fig. 740). Yarious modifications of the process above described may be met with : thus, in some cases the growth of epithelium is less abundant, so that instead of the formation of white patches, the surface of the tongue becomes smooth, red, and shining, giving rise to the condition knoAvn as the "-glazed red tongue.'''' In other cases the growth of epithelium may be very excessive, forming thick scaly masses on the surface, from which this variety has been termed ichthyosis of the tongue. These forms, though differing in detail, are essentially the same pathologically. All forms of the disease are accompanied by some discomfort, though usually no actual pain. The tongue is tender, so that the patient cannot take mustard, or spices, or drink hot fluids. The speech may become slightly lisping or indistinct. The duration is very indefinite. In some cases it pro- gresses slowly for many years, at last becoming stationary and causing the patient but little inconvenience. In others ulceration may take place after a few years. The invasion of epithelioma may occur after ten or even twenty years, and in many cases the patient escapes altogether. The causes of the disease are not always to be clearly ascertained. The earher writers believed it to be invariably an effect of syphilis, but there seems no doubt that this view cannot be maintained. A. E. Barker has paid great attention to this subject, and to his valuable article on the " Diseases of the Tongue" in Holmes's System of Surgery I would refer the reader for more detailed infor- mation than can be given here. He has collected from various sources 110 cases of chronic superficial glossitis. Of these, 101 occurred in males and 9 in females. Of the 101 cases in males, 55 affected the tongue only ; 33 the tongue and cheeks ; 12 the lips and cheek ; 1 the hard palate, and in 4 the float was not mentioned. Of the 110 patients, 33 had certainly had syphilis, and 19 certainly had not; in the remaining cases it was doubtful. The fact that nearly one-third of the patients had suffered from syphilis would suggest that though not the sole cause, it may form an important element in the pro- duction of the disease. The disease was associated with psoriasis or eczema in 6 of Barker's cases, and with squamous syphilides in 2. It has also been seen associated with ichthyosis of the skin. In 75 cases evidence was given as to smoking. Only 4 patients did not smoke, while 4G are said to have indulged in the habit to excess. Smoking may, therefore, be fairly considered