26 DISEASES OF Till': NERVOUS SYSTEM. norvous affection, there may be fear of the ultimate occurrence of disease of a more serious typo, such as epilepsy or insanity. AVhen it occurs as the consequence of anaemia, or in the hysterical tempera- inent, the administration of the more stimulating and stronger prepai-ations of iron, such as the sulphate or the perehloi-ide, or the mistura ferri composita, either alone or in combination with quinine, with attention to the state of the bowels and of the uterine functions, and a regimen calculated to improve the genei-al health, sucli as sea-bathing, the cold douche or cold sponging, will bo of essential service. In some of these cases the combination of zinc, especi- ally the valerianate, with assafoetida, will give relief when iron fails. When the neuralgia is distinctly periodical, quinine in full doses, or the liquor arsenicalis, will often speedily effect a cure. When it is rheumatic, occurring in debilitated subjects, and attended by distinct nocturnal exacerbations of pain, no remedy has so great an effect upon it as the iodide of potassium, especially when administered in combination with quinine. In the more protracted forms of the disease, relief may occasionally be given by attention to the state of the liver and digestive organs, by a course of some of the more purgative mineral waters, and by the occasional administration of aloetics, followed by tonic remedies. Gelsemium has been used with considerable success ; the tincture may be given every six hours in 15 minim doses, or the alkaloid gelsemine may be injected subcutaneously in doses of to of a grain. In some cases, especially when the disease affects the branches of the fifth nerve, croton chloral hydrate in doses of 1| grain to 5 grains, may give relief. Antipyrin occasionally proves useful; five to fifteen grains may be given every six hours. Local applications of a sedative kind, such as chloroform, belladonna, aconite, opium, &c., are often useful adjuncts to constitutional treatment. Solid menthol rubbed on the part sometimes relieves the pain in neuralgia of the face. Chloral and camphor rubbed together in equal parts form a liquid which may be painted over the painful area with benefit in many cases. By far the readiest mode of affording relief locally is the hypodermic injection of from one-sixth to a quarter of a grain of morphia. More than this it is unsafe to begin with ; but the quantity may be enormously increased. I have had a patient who, to relieve the pains attending cancer of the rectum and anus, required no less than six grains to be injected every twelfth hour. In some cases a single injection has cured neuralgia which has resisted all other means. Hypodermic injections of cocaine may in some cases give temporary ease. Relief may often be obtained by the use of- electricity in the form of the continuous current. The positive sponge must be applied to some convenient place near the seat of pain, while the neuralgic spot is gently rubbed with the negative until the skin is reddened. In exceptional cases the relief is permanent. Granville has in some cases seen permanent relief produced by rapid light percussion by means of an instrument called a " percuteur." In many cases all these means, however, are unfortunately unavailmg, and the sufferer is doomed to an existence of almost constant pain, except at times when the disease appears to cease of itself, or has its intensity blunted by the administration of the more powerful sedatives, such as morphia hypodermically, or veratria, aconite, or atropine externally. In these distressmg cases the sufferer is ready to grasp at any means of relief that is held out to hmi : and