1281 SUPRA VAGINAL HYSTERECTOMY. ovary with a pair of large pressure forceps. A smgle-thread hgature of 0 4 silk is now passed through the broad ligament immediately below the foiceps by means of a handled needle, which is withdrawn leaving a loop ot fiUl^ on one aspect of the pedicle, and the two free ends of the ligature on the other One of these latter is now carried round the outer edge of the broad ligament and passed through the projecting loop ; the forceps are removed while an assistant holds up the ovary and tube ; and the free ends of the ligature which thus encircles the compressed tissues by a twisted or figure-of-8 loop, are drawn upon firmly before being tied together at the inner border of the pedicle, and thence brought round on either side to be again united at the outer border, where they are finally cut short. The ovary and tube are then cleanly removed, and the stump is dropped in, the same procedure being subsequently repeated on the opposite side. The operation of Abdominal (Supravaginal) Hysterectomy, involving removal of the entire mass of a fibro-myomatous tumour, including the body of the uterus with its appendages, should never be undertaken without the most careful forethought as to the necessity for its adoption. The possibility of discovering in any given instance of uterine tumour, when interference is Fig. 961.—Serve-noeud -with wire. undertaken with the object of dealing with the uterine appendages, that their removal cannot be effected, and that resort must consequently be had to the major operation, should always be kept in view when considering the advisabihty of operative treatment in these cases. The performance of hysterectomy in the case of a more or less symmetrical tumour not involving the lower segment of the uterus, although necessarily entaihng risk to life, offers no very serious difficulty to any one accustomed to deal with abdominal growths. On the other hand, the removal of a multiple tumour with a broad pelvic base opening up the layers of one or both broad ligaments, is an undertaking which may tax to the utmost the knowledge and skill of the most experienced Surgeon. The following are the steps of the operation in a case presenting no special difficulties of any kind. The tumour, having been turned out of the abdominal cavity, is held up by an assistant while the operator encircles the uterus, usually at or about the level of the junction of the body and cervix, with a flexible wire connected with the instrument known as Koebeiie's serre-nmud (Fig. 961). Both uterine appendages should be included in the loop, while care is taken that no portion of intestine be nipped by it, and that the bladder be kept well out of harm's way in front. The wire, having been properly secured, is tightened by means of the spiral screw sufficiently to control VOL. II. * N