MORBID CONDITIONS OF THE BLADDER. 991 DISEASES OF THE GENITO-UKINAKY OKGANS. CHAPTEE LXY. SECONDAEY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORaANS ARISING EROM SURGICAL CAUSES. PYAEMIA AND SEPTICEMIA IN URINARY DISEASES. The great majority of cases of stone in the bladder, stricture of the urethra, cystitis secondary to paralysis, retention from enlarged prostate, tumours of the bladder, and, in short, of every disease tending to hinder the escape of urine from the bladder, or to induce chronic inflammation of that organ, terminate, if not relieved, by giving rise to fatal disease of the kidneys. This fact alone is sufficient to make the study of the secondary affections of the kidney of the greatest importance to the Surgeon ; and the obscurity which surrounds their diagnosis, and the general futility of treatment intended for their relief, render the subject worthy of the fullest investigation. Morbid Conditions of the Bladder.—If we examine a case in which death has occurred from one of the above-named diseases, we find that the mucous membrane of the bladder shows signs of both recent and old inflam- mation. The recent inflammation is indicated by the swollen and softened condition of the mucous membrane, the intense purple colour of the summits of the rugae, and possibly by patches of ulceration, the ulcers often being covered by a thick slough closely resembling a diphtheritic membrane. The old inflammation is indicated by patches of dark slate-grey pigmentation in the mucous membrane, which have resulted from repeated attacks of intense congestion, in which red blood-corpuscles have become extravasated, and, after breaking up and becoming absorbed, have left their pigment behind them. The muscular wall of the bladder is found to be hypertrophied, or not, according to circumstances. If, in order to expel the urine, it have been called upon to make a greatly increased pressure on its contents, the hyper- trophy will be very marked. If the obstruction to the flow of urine have been of a valvular nature, as is often the case in enlarged prostate, then dilatation of the bladder will greatly exceed the hypertrophy of the muscular walls. It may, therefore, always be supposed, when great hypertrophy with contraction of the bladder is found, that increased difficulty existed in expelling the urine, but that the increased power of the bladder proved equal to the occasion. When dilatation is found combined with hypertrophy, we must conclude that increased power was required to expel the urine, but that the increase of muscular tissue was not quite sufficient, and that the bladder suffered fre- quently from over-distension. When dilatation alone is found with scarcely