DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. TUMOURS OF THE KIDNEY. I Cysts are not uncommon in the kidney, but they seldom reach such a size as to call for surgical interference. Simple cysts, quite distinct from the small cysts so common m granular kidneys, are occasionally met with, and may reach a considerable size. In the affection known as c>jf;iic kidney the whole organ may be converted into little more than a mass of cysts, varying in size from a pea to an orange. The kidney may thus form an enormous tumour fillmg a great part of the abdomen and extending down to the pelvis. The disease is not uncommonly bilateral, but one kidney is usually more affected ■ than the other. These tumours seem to cause but little trouble beyond that arising from their size, and are often discovered only on the post-mortem table. Hydatid cysts are occasionally met with, and may be recognized by the character of the fluid drawn off by the aspirator. The Treatment of simple cysts of large size and of hydatids should consist in aspiration, followed if necessary by antiseptic drainage. Cystic degenera- tion of the kidney is scarcely amenable to surgical treatment ; tapping is useless, and nephrectomy can rarely be justifiable as the affection is so often bilateral. Adenomata of small size are occasionally met with in the kidney, but they very rarely reach such dimensions as to be recognizable during life. Newman has collected three cases in which nephrectomy was performed for adenoma of the kidney by Czerny, Schonborn, and "Weir. Fapillomata occasionally occur in the pelvis of the kidney, and may occasion more or less profuse hsematuria. T. Jones, of Manchester, has recorded a case of this nature, in which free hsematuria and pain in the right loin of eighteen months' duration were the chief symptoms. The kidney was incised, and a villous growth as large as the end of the thumb was removed from the pelvis with the finger and a Volkmann's spoon. Seven months later the kidney w^as excised on account of return of the heematuria; the lower part of the pelvis contained a papilloma as large as a pigeon's egg. Knowsley Thornton has recorded a case in which he excised a kidney for hydronephrosis resulting from obstruction of the upper end of the ureter by a papilloma covered by a calculous deposit. Sarcoma of the kidney is met with in infancy and in adult life ; in the former case the tumour may be congenital. Sarcoma occurring in young children is usually of very rapid growth, and proves fatal by secondary deposits in the lungs or elsewhere, or by the mechanical effects of the tumour. Hgematuria is rare. Bland Sutton finds that in half the cases both kidneys are affected. The tumour has a mixed structure, being composed of round and spindle cells mixed with spaces lined with epithelium ; some of the long spindle cells may exhibit transverse striation, and are regarded by some pathologists as muscle fibres. In adults sarcoma of the kidney usually runs a less rapid course than in infants, and is attended with haematuria. It eventually proves fatal by exhaustion or as the result of secondary deposits. Certain tumours of the adrenal capsule may closely resemble sarcoma of the kidney. In two cases of this nature, in which nephrectomy was performed by Thornton, there was a complete absence of hematuria and other urinary symptoms. The tumours consisted of spheroidal cells arranged in small i