i TREATMENT OF ACUTE OBSTRUCTION. 9^3 luusfc be closely watched and the eifects of simple medical treatment noted. I le should at once be confined to the recumbent position and the administration of food by the mouth stopped. Under no circumstances should purgatives of any kind be given, for if any cause of mechanical obstruction exists they can have no influence over it, and their only effect will be to increase the pain and vomiting and exhaust the patient. The only drug which is likely to be of tiny service is opium. This should be given in such quantity as to relieve the pain. If there is no vomiting a grain of solid opium may be administered by the mouth, but if, as so often happens, the patient has vomited almost immediately after the onset of the pain, morphia should be given hypodermi- cally. Thirst may be relieved by sucking ice in very small quantity, or by iips of hot water. Upon the course of the symptoms during the few hours after this treatment has been adopted the Surgeon will decide whether or not he has to deal with a L'ase of true intestinal obstruction. He must avoid the serious mistake of regarding the case favourably because the urgent symptoms are relieved by absolute rest, the avoidance of food, and the administration of opium. In too many cases operative interference has been postponed until it has been undertaken as a last resource, and many valuable days have been allowed to slip away whilst the serious nature of the case has been masked by repeated doses of opium. It is undoubtedly true that apparently desperate cases occasionally recover under the treatment by opium, but this should not induce the Surgeon to delay operation if the symptoms are such as to justify the diagnosis of internal strangulation or some other form of mechanical obstruction. The chances of : success are as much influenced by delay in such cases as if the strangulation i Bxisted in an external hernia (p. 840), and, indeed, more so, for in all cases a varying degree of peritonitis sooner or later occurs, whilst the increasing distension of the intestines adds to the difficulty and therefore to the danger of the operation. It remains to be considered whether any methods of treatment, other than operation, hold out sufficient hope of affording relief in acute intestinal obstruction to justify the Surgeon in delaying operation in order that he may employ them. With regard to enemata it may be stated that in all acute obstructions, except intussusception, they appear to be perfectly useless and to aggravate the patient's sufferings. In the same way the application of /re to the abdomen and the employment of eledricity can hardly be productive A anything but harm. It seems scarcely reasonable to endeavour to relieve the obstruction at one time by arresting the peristaltic movements with morphia, and at another by stimulating them with electricity, and it may fairly be assumed that cases of supposed obstruction, which have been relieved by :;lectricity, were due to fiecal accumulation from paralysis of the muscular 3oat. The administration of metallic mercury in large quantities, with the view of overcoming the obstruction by its weight, is an ancient and barbarous treatment which cannot be of any use in genuine obstruction. Jnvermn of the paiient, with massaye of the abdomen, is an ancient mode of :reatment which has been employed with some success, and has recently been strongly supported by Hutchinson, who recommends that " abdominal taxis " DC carried out as follows :—The bladder and rectum having been emptied, ind the patient brought fully under the influence of an anjEsthetic, the