io88 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITJIQTRITY. only in the case of a veiy small stone that the operation was finished at on. sitting. At the present time the crushing is completed in all but vorv exceptional cases at one sitting, and the results of the practice have show , that the irritation caused by a prolonged operation carefully performed ir inhnitely less than that set up by a mass of sharp fragments such as are left after partial crushing of a stone. If the stone is of any size an hour or an hour and a half may be occupied in completely crushing it. The longest time that Thompson has occupied in an operation at a single sitting has been 70 minutes. This was in the case of an unusually hard uric acid calculus weighing 2f ounces. In a case recorded by Surgeon-Major Keegan, of Indore the stone weighed 3^ ounces, and was at first too large to be grasped by the hthotrite, but by gradually nibbling at it he reduced it till it could be fairly seized and crushed. The operation lasted four hours, but the patient went home well on the fourth day. In the performance of prolonged operations at a single sitting Thompson enjoins the very important caution that the patient's lower extremities should be encased in long woollen stockings, and that especial care be taken to prevent his getting chilled by exposure. After-Treatment of Lithotrity.—After the operation a half-grain morphia suppository should be administered and the patient put to bed with a hot fomentation over the lower part of the abdomen. If the operation has for any reason been incomplete he should pass water lying on his back lest any fragments should be washed on and lodge in the urethra. When the operation is complete this precaution is not necessary. In very rare cases some retention of urine may follow owing to slight swelling of the neck of the bladder, necessitating the passage of a soft catheter. The diet should be chiefly milk and barley-water for a few days, and if any stimulant is required Hollands and barley-water is the best. The slight cystitis that usually follows the operation requires no special treatment. If there is much irritability of the bladder, hyoscyamus is often of use. If the cystitis is more severe it must treated as described in the Chapter on Diseases of the Bladder. Complications in Lithotrity. Size of the Stone.—Before the inven- tion of rapid lithotrity with evacuation no stone over one inch and a half was considered suited to lithotrity. At the present time any stone that can be grasped in the blades of the lithotrite, and is not too hard to be broken, may be removed by this method. It must be remembered, however, that a large stone necessarily means a long operation, and in very old or weak patients, and especially in those suffering from chronic bronchitis and emphysema, two hours under an antesthetic is accompanied by considerable danger. In such cases, possibly, a better chance of life would be given by suprapubic lithotomy. Cystitis before the Operation need not prevent its performance if the stone is small. The removal of the source of irritation, and the washing out of the foul mucus with the evacuator, will often bring immediate relief. If the stone be large, and the cystitis acute, lithotomy would probably give the best chance if the condition of the patient renders some inter- ference urgently necessary. Chronic Enlargement of the Prostate was formerly one of the most serious complications of the operation of lithotrity, not so much fi'om the difficulty it caused in the introduction of instruments as from the obstacle it off'ered to the expulsion of the fragments. With the present