I02 ANEURISM. A forcible, and occasionally greatly increased action of tlie heart IS often the imiuediate cause of the dilututioii of tlie vcssds and the pro' duction of aneurism. Hence we find that this disease is espeoiallv commoa in those individuals who are called upon to make sudden, violent, and inter- mittent exertions ; as, for instance, in men who habitually lead somewhat sedentary lives, but occasionally change their habits suddenly and indulge in active sports, which they might without risk have practised in early life, but Avnich cannot be taken up with impunity at an age when the arteries are unable to bear the same strain upon their coats as heretofore. I agree witli Porter in thinking that continuous, steady, laborious employments do not pre- dispose to aneurism, as this disease is seldom met with amongst thoseof the work- ing class who labour hard and uninterruptedly ; while it is common in soldiers, sailors, and members of the wealthier classes in society. As violent muscular exertion predisposes to this disease, we should necessarily expect to meet with it more frequently among men than in women : and accordingly Crisp finds that, of 551 cases of aneurism of all kinds, more than seven-eighths occurred in men! It is important, however, to observe that different kinds of aneurism occm* with varying degrees of frequency in the sexes: thus, carotid aneurism is met with about as often in women as in men, whilst the other external aneurisms occur in the proportion of thirteen cases in males to one in females. It is remarkable, however, that in the dissecting aneurism the proportions are reversed, for twice as many occur in women as in men. Climate.—Aneurism is far more frequent in cold than in hot countries. It is not, however, the geographical position or the meteorological condition of a country but rather the habits of the people that regulate its prevalence. It is to the more energetic and active habits of the northern nations that we must look for an explanation of its greater prevalence amongst them. If we may judge of the prevalence of aneurism in a country by the number of published reports of cases, I should say that it is more common in Great Britain and Ireland than elsewhere; indeed, Roux states that it is less frequent in) France than in England. In America it is also of frequent occurrence, but inj, the East Indies it is comparatively rare. | All those Constitutional Conditions which j)redispose to or cause chronic f endarteritis or atheroma necessarily act as predisposing causes of aneurism. (See Causes of Atheroma, p. 90.) Syphilis is commonly said to tend specially to the production of aneurism, but I am not aware that we are in possession of any definite facts proving this. The increased arterial tension accompany- ing the chronic interstitial nephritis and general arterio-capillary fibrosis of' chronic gout undoubtedly acts as a powerful predisposing cause of aneurism. Phthisis is antagonistic to aneurism on account of the feebleness of the heart's.' action and the low arterial tension ; moreover, violent muscular exertion isi seldom undertaken by those labouring under it. | Embolism is probably in the great majority of cases the cause of spontaneous \ aneurisms of the srnaller arteries, as the radial, ulnar or tibials, and especially of aneurisms occurring in young subjects. There is no reason to believe that a simple embolus ever causes aneurism, for the increased pressure resulting from the resistance is felt throughout the general circulation, and not merely in the vessel immediately above the obstruction. The essential element in the production of an aneurism by embolism is the softening of the coats of the ■\ essel consequent upon the irritating nature of the material of which the