SOURCES OF DANGER AFTER LATERAL LITHOTOMY. 1069 into the wound to its furthest extremity, to the left side of the neck of the bladder • he then pushed it through the tunics of the rectum, and, drawmg it down^^^^^^^^ divided the lower part of the gut together with the sphincter ; thTlaying the wound and the rectum into one. The rehe was immediat , and the patient recovered. This plan of treatment certainly seems rational, and worthy of trial iu similar cases. i ^ w aa^.^ 2 Diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue around the neck of the biaddei and'prostate arising from Bruising and Over-distension of the parts during the extraction of a large calculus is, I beheve, a more frequent occurrence than infiltration of urine, and fully as fatal. This sequence of lateral lithotomy is especially apt to occur in those cases in which, in consequence of diseased kidneys, or the existence of other organic mischief, the patient is more than ordinarily liable to the supervention of diffuse inflammation. In the extraction of large calculi, considerable traction is required, and force must be exerted ; hence undue bruising and laceration are very apt to be inflicted upon the parts that constitute the hne of incision. It is in this way that the danger of the operation increases almost in exact proportion to the size of the calculus : for here the Surgeon is often placed between the horns of a dilemma. He must either cut beyond the limits of the prostate, and thus incur the risk of inducing urinary infiltration into, and diffuse inflammation of the pelvic fasciee ; or else, by limiting his incision to the gland, and thus having an aperture of insufficient size, he may inflict severe injury by the bruising and laceration of parts during forcible and possibly pro- longed efforts at extraction. It must, however, be borne in mind that, the larger the stone the greater probability is there of the existence of old-standing disease of the bladder or kidneys, and of an unfavourable result from this cause. Crosse has drawn up a table that shows very strikingly the influence of the weight or, in other words, of the size of a calculus on the results of lithotomy. He found that when the stone was one ounce and under in weight, the deaths were in the proportion of 1 in 11-25 cases ; when it was from 1 to 2 ounces in weight, there was 1 death in 6-Gl cases ; when from 2 to 3 ounces, 1 death in 2-18 cases ; when from 3 to 4 ounces, 1 death in 1-57 cases ; when from 4 to 5 ounces, 1 death in 1-0(5 cases. This table, which has been con- structed on the results of 703 cases, illustrates very clearly these facts, that the operation for the removal of a large calculus is far more dangerous than that for the extraction of a small one, and that the danger increases in the direct ratio of the size of the stone. The symptoms of diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue arising from this cause very closely resemble those from infiltration of urine, and the treatment must be conducted on precisely similar principles. Peritonitis may occur after lateral lithotomy, as a consequence of the extension of inflammation from the bladder or the pelvic areolar tissue to the serous membrane, from wound of the posterior part of the bladder, or from extension of inflammation from a sacculus of the bladder to its immediate investment of peritoneum. To one or other of these conditions, more especially inflammation of the pelvic fascife, it will always be found to be secondary. Sloughing.—In feeble and cachectic persons, especially in those who are the subjects of phosphatic calculi, the wound will often assume a sloughy condition, and heal slowly, and its surface may become coated with phosphates..