I SOFT FIBRO-ADENOMA OF THE BREAST. 787 structure above described. It is distinguished from normal mammary tissue .V the total absence of fat from the inter-acinous tissue. It contains one ,mall cyst about half an inch in diameter, with some fine papillary intracystic growths projecting into it. . n i. p fV,o The Hard Fibro-adenoma is the most common simple tumour or me breast. It is identical with the Chronic Mammary Tumour of Astley Cooper, the Pancreatic Sarcoma of Abernethy, and the Partial or LoUdar Hyperlroptiy of the Mamma of Vidal. It is often attributed to blows, squeezes, or lacteal irritation, and is most commonly met with in young women under thirty years age : usually in women otherwise healthy. Bryant states that of 100 con- secutive cases observed by himself, 27 were first discovered between puberty ,and 20; 35 between 20 and 30; 22 between 30 and 40; 13 between 40 and 50 ; and 3 after 50. Forty-six occurred in single women, 37 m the married and prolific, and 15 in the married and sterile. It is often associated with the hysterical temperament, and connected with, if not dependent on, uterine imtation and sexual excitement of an irregular kind. This tumour is Igenerally of small size when first perceived, and may remain stationary for I many years ; or it may slowly increase, and at last attain a considerable bulk. . In other cases it may very rapidly grow to a great size. In a case on which I operated some years ago, the tumour had continued for eighteen years about the size of a walnut, but in the course of six months it increased to an enormous magnitude, and on removal weighed nearly five pounds. This tumour usually commences as a small, movable, finely nodulated growth, attached by a pedicle to one side of the mammary gland ; it is hard and incompressible, often appears isolated, and is not generally painful, but in ansemic women may be the seat of intense neuralgic pain ; it increases slowly, without discolouring the skin or becoming attached to it, and is frequently many years in attaining a moderate size. It is often floating, as it were, in the substance of the gland, into which it can be pushed back. On examination after removal, a fibro-adenoma appears to be irregularly lobulated, is enclosed in a capsule of areolar tissue, and its cut surface is found to present a bluish- or greyish-white colour, which, after exposure to the air, assumes a rosy tint; and on pressure, drops of a thick mucous or serous fluid are often seen to exude. On examination with a lens, its foliated structure is often very apparent, so much so that it has been compared by Yirchow to the section of a cabbage. This is more clearly seen after it has been a few days in spirit. It occasionally happens that a fibro-adenoma becomes the seat of very severe and paroxysmal neuralgic pains attended with very considerable cutaneous sensibihty, and it has then been termed the painful mammary tumour. This condition most frequently occurs in early life, and in women of m irritable and delicate constitution ; it is commonly associated with disorder of the uterine functions, the pain increasing at the catamenial periods. The Soft Pibro-adenoma is frequently known by the name of Adeno- xarcoma. It often develops from a slowly growing hard fibro-adenoma which has remained more or less quiescent up to about the middle of life. In cases in which the disease develops for the first time between the ages of 35 and 40 it may grow quickly from the first. In these cases it will i(row with great rapidity, attaining in a few months a size equal to that of a cocoa-nut, or even larger, and simulating in this respect the progress of a