629 CYSTIC DISEASE OF THE ANTRUM. antrum may be mentioned the method of transillumination recommended b) vSn and Heryng. This consists in introducing an electric light into the loutMbe patien't being in a darkened room. The cheeses, lips and lower maro-in of the orbits become illuminated of a rosy red colour, whilst if one antrum is filled with pus or an opaque tumour the i"^/^^^"^ f corresponding cheek and orbit is proportionately diminished. _ Although this method has proved of some practical utihty it seems to give misleading evidence in some cases. , , ^ i^j Treatment—k\l\iOxvg\i Mikulicz, Krause, and others have recommended drainino- the antrum from the nose, either in the position of the normal opeuino- or by perforating the outer wall of the inferior meatus, the method of treatment usually adopted consists in draining the abscess from the mouth. Any carious tooth situated in the neighbourhood of the antrum should be extracted and then the antrum may be opened by perforating the socket If however all the teeth appear healthy the opening into the antrum should be made above the alveolus, or through the canine fossa under the cheek, pro- vided it be much expanded in this situation, so that its cavity can easily be The perforation into the antrum may readily be made, or the socket of the tooth enlarged, by means of one of the forms of antrum-perforator here repre- sented (Figs. 687, 688, 689), or a carpenter's gimlet, as recommended by Fergusson. As the matter drains away, the cavity will gradually contract, and the deformity thus be removed. It is well not to attempt to perforate in the site of teeth that have been extracted for some time, as here the bone becomes unduly consolidated, and the attempt to reach the cavity is consequently likely to fail. The matter that is discharged is often very offensive, or it may be thick and pasty from the absorption of its watery parts. After the aperture has been made, the cavity should ,be syringed out twice daily with some antiseptic solution. The best instrument for this purpose is that recommended by Heath, consisting of a common Eustachian catheter, to which an india- rubber ball is fitted to contain the fluid to be injected. Cystic Disease of the Antrum. In this Fig. eOO.—Cystic Disease of Antrum. disease the antrum becomes slowly distended with a fluid, in some cases glairy and mucous in character, like the contents of a ranula, in others thin, brownish, and serous, containing cholesterine. It was formerly believed that this condition was, in some instances at least, due to obstruction of the aperture leading from the antrum to the nose, and hence the name "dropsy of the antrum" was applied to it; bnt it is now generally acknowledged that in all cases it results from the formation of a cystic tumour springing from the mucous membrane lining the cavity. In such cases the accumulation of fluid may after a time cause expan- sion and thinning of the osseous walls of the cavity. The cheek is rendered round and prominent—a painless indolent semi-clastic tumour forming in it and protruding it outwards, and giving rise to the egg-shell or parchment-like