CARIES OF SPINE: ABSCESS. 483 will be found, excepb the excurvation. It will be observed that the spine has lost its natm-al free mobility and flexibility, moving fixedly, stifBy, and as a whole, when the patient leans forwards or sideways. If asked to stoop down the patient will incline the body forwards rigidly without bending the spine. He cannot put on or lace up his boots. When laid flat on his back, he cannot raise himself into a sitting position without the aid of his hands or elbows, and he cannot turn sharply or suddenly over upon his face, but struggles with out- stretched arms in vain attempts to do so. Occasionally the incipient curvature, when it occurs, assumes more of a lateral than of an angular direction ; and in one fatal case I have seen the spine actually bent backwards, so as to be incurvated at the seat of the disease. In some cases, the true angular excurvation dependent on caries of the bodies of the vertebrse may be associated with the ordinaiy lateral curve of debility. The lower limbs become weak, and the patient walks with a peculiar shuflling tottering gait, the legs being outspread, and the feet turned out. The weakness of the limbs is . especially marked in going upstairs, and may be tested by directing the patient to stand unsupported on one leg, and raise the other so as to place the foot upon the seat of a chair, which he will probably be unable to do. The deformity of the spine may slowly increase ; the patient may become unable to stand ; and paralysis of the muscles of the lower extremity may come on. Pleuritic attacks of a localized character dependent on extension of the inflammation to the contiguous pleurse have been observed in rare cases of caries affecting the dorsal spine. Abscess commonly makes its appearance as the disease progresses ; and in some cases it occurs before any of the other signs except pain and weakness of the spine, and certainly before any deformity. When the abscess appears, as Stanley observed, the pain consequent on irritation of the spinal nerves is often lessened for a time. It must not be supposed that abscess necessarily follows in all cases. In children especially we often meet with great excurvation without any suppuration. In adults it is very rare to see angular curvature without the formation of an abscess. The exact causes that determine the formation of pus are not certain in all cases. In many It IS undoubtedly due to the irritation caused by the friction of the diseased surfaces against each other, and proper treatment adopted early will do much to prevent it. Suppuration is also more likely to occur when the patient IS poorly fed and exposed to general unhygienic surroundings. In cases which recover without suppuration the diseased bodies become fused together mto a single mass, across which bridges of osseous tissue are thrown out, so as to strengthen the otherwise weakened spine. This is the natural mode of cure of angular curvature of the spine, and the only way in which It can take place when once the disease has advanced to any considerable extent. When pus forms in connexion with caries of the spine, the situation and course of the abscess depend mainly upon the part of the spine affected • thus tor mstance, when the cervical vertebr£e arc diseased, the abscess will come Fig. 607.—Attitude of Child in Angular Curvature in Ad- vanced Stage. I I 2