176 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. TABLE OF LIOATURK OF CAROTID FOLLOWED BY CEREBRAL DISEASE. CAURES OF OPERATION. NUMBER 01" OASES. CA8EM IN WHICH cerebral av'keciion i:nsui:i>. uija1hs krom ci:ri:bha[. DISEASE. * DEATHS FnO.M ALL CAUSES. NO RW.OIU OHKEBRAL SVMI'TOMS. Aneurism .... 87 32 31 T, Erectile and other Tumours . 142 32 20 49 3 Extirpation of Tumours 71 13 8 25 8 Cerebral Alf ections . . . 34 8 1 3 Distal Operation . 38 11 7 2-> 0 372 !)() 131 v.) By this it will be seen that the most common cause of death after ligature of the carotid is cerebral disease induced by the operation; and this result appears to have been relatively more frequent after the distal than after the Hunterian operation. If to these cases we add 14 in which the innominate artery was ligatured, we get a total of 38(J cases of which 96 were attended with cerebral symptoms j or, as nearly as possible, 25 per cent. We should naturally expect that, in those cases in which both vessels had been ligatured, there would be a greater tendency to cerebral disturbance than in those in which only one had been dehgated. It would, however, appear that of twenty-seven instances in which the double operation was performed, death is recorded to have happened in but two cases from this cause ; while in another, in which convulsions took place, a fatal result did not occur, and three other cases were attended with mere temporary disturbance of vision. In the only case—that of Mott—in which both carotids were hgatured simultaneously, with an interval of only a few minutes between the operations, coma and death resulted. After a careful examination of this subject, I think we are warranted in coming to the following conclusions : 1. Ligature of one carotid artery is followed by cerebral disturbance in more than one-fourth of the cases, above one-half of which are fatal. 2. When the two carotids are ligatured with an 'interval of some days or iveelcs, the operation is not more frequently followed by cerebral disturbance than when only one is tied. _ 3. Pathological investi- gation has shown that, if the vessels be gradually and successively obHterated, the patient may live, although one carotid and one of the vertebral arteries have been occluded by disease and the other carotid ligatured, as in a case- related by Rossi. 4. As in a case recorded by Davy, an individual may eveji live for a considerable time, though both carotids and both vertebrals be occluded—the cerebral circulation being maintained through the medium of the anastomoses of the inferior and superior thyroids and the deep cervical with the occipital artery. 5. The reason why more or less extensive obstruction by disease of the arteries leading to the brain may, as appears from patho- loo-ical records, be unattended with cerebral disturbance, while this so frequently follows lic^aturc, is (as has been pointed out by Pilz) that in the former case the obstruction is gradual, so that the collateral circulation has time to be established, while in the latter the interruption is sudden. The cause of these cerebral symptoms is certainly the disturbance of the