TREATMENT OF PELVIC UEHNIjE. 889 horizontal ramus of the piibes. The symptoms have in some cases sufficiently resembled those of strangulated femoral hernia to lead able burgeons to suppose they had to deal with the latter affection. In addition, however, to tlie ordinary symptoms of strangulation, there are two special signs which may lead to the suspicion of the existence of this hernia, if not to its positive diao-nosis. The first of these is a slight fulness and hardness in the upper part of the thigh to the inner side of the femoral vessels, often very indistinct, yet giving to the surface of the limb a diff'erent outline from that which is observed on the other side. The other is, pain extending down the inner side of the thigh towards the knee ; or even, as in a case referred to by Birkett, as far as the great toe. This pain has been noticed in a large number of the recorded cases, and is due to the pressure of the hernia on the obturator nerve : it may also be increased by pressure with the hand over the thyroid foramen, and according to Pimbet by forced external rotation of the limb. It does not Fig Sll.—Obturator Hernia : o. Pubic Spine ; 6. Branches of Obturator Veins ; c. Obturator Artery witli a glass rod in it; d. Obturator Nerve; e. Obturator Membrane ; f. Sac ot the Hernia opened. extend to the testis; but it may, as happened in a case which I have seen, affect the thigh to such an extent that the patient, to relieve it, flexes the limb on the abdomen. Roser has recommended, as a means of diagnosis, an examination of the interior of the pelvis, per rectum in the male, and 'per vaginam in the female. Most reliance, however, is to be placed on the symptoms which I have described. In a considerable number of cases the hernia has been a partial entgrocele. Treatment.—Taxis has been employed in a few cases. In one instance, Roser reduced an obturator hernia in this way, the patient surviving ; but, in another case under his care, death took place, a portion of the walls of the intestine remaining strangulated. Werner Avas successful in an instance in which, in addition to applying pressure externally, he introduced his hand into the vagina, and employed traction backwards and upwards. Welsch of Herrenberg reduced an obturator hernia by external pressure ; the patient was apparently doing well, when, in a few days, an abscess appeared at the site of