TUMOURS OF THE TONGUE. 685 >rrowth forms a prominent tumour "not ulcerated, covered with natural mucous membrane, permitting very free movement of the tongue, and causing comparatively little inconvenience." The structure of these tumours is that of a cystic tubular adenoma, and the remarkable resemblance to thyroid gland tissue has suggested to Bernays and Bland Sutton that these growths are in reality accessory thyroids developed around the upper end of the thyreo-glossal duct (p. 610), rather than true adenomata of the glands of the tongue. In a tumour of this kind removed by J. W. Bond the structure was exactly that of the normal thyroid gland. The Treatment consists in the removal of the tumour either by excision or with the galvano-cautery. Partial removal has been followed by somewhat rapid increase and subsequent shrinking of the remainder. N»vvis and Aneurism by Anastomosis are but rarely seen in the tongue, and when met with would require to be treated on the same principles that guide us in the management of the disease elsewhere. A very remarkable instance of an erectile tumour of nsevoid character affecting the tongue came under my care, in which the whole of the free extremity of the organ was implicated in the morbid growth, presenting a club-shaped end, which protruded between the teeth and lips of the patient, a girl about three years old. In this case, which had previously been treated by ; the introduction of setons, I removed all the '\ ;■■ I'edundant tissues by means of the ecraseur, and I so reduced the tongue to its normal size. A form of very vascular local hyjDertrophy may occur in the tongue at a later period of life, which may perhaps be best classed with these growths. The case of which Fig. 742 is a good representation was of this kind. It ^ , „ , , ;i . T ^ u^-^ £ mi '■i2.-\asf:ular Hypertrophy of occurred m a lady about oO years of age. The Tongue. disease, was confined to the anterior half of the tonjiue, which I successfully removed with the ecraseur. Cystic Tumours of the Tongue.—Two forms of cyst have been met with in the tongue : hydatids, which are extremely rare, and mucous cysts. Mucous Cysts seldom reach any large size. They lie immediately beneath the mucous membrane, usually on the dorsum or at one side. They may bfr so tense as to resemble solid growths. Chronic abscesses which are occasion- ally found in the tongue cannot with certainty be distinguished from mucous (ysts till the fluid has been let out by a puncture. The treatment of a mucou^ cyst consists in dissecting it out if possible. If this cannot be done it will usually suffice to puncture the cyst and apply a strong solution of chloride of zinc to the interior. Fibrous and Fatty Tumours have been met with in the tongue, but are- '■Ktremely rare. Should such a growth be met with it may readily be removed I'y drawmg the tongue forwards by means of forceps or piece of whipcord passed through its tip, and then dissecting out the tumour. Any bleediu"- that occurs may be arrested by ligature, or by passing a suture by mean's ot a curved needle across the gap in the course of the divided vessels and thus closmg the aperture at the same time that the vessels are compressed 5