PERMANENT CLOSURE OF THE JAWS. livector between them. Under these circumstances it is evident that little an be done to relieve the patient from within the mouth. Division of the •icatrix followed by forcible extension has been recommended and practised, Hit never with any good result. As the raw surface heals, the contraction locessarily recurs, and the last state of the patient is much the same as the irst. Mears, however, states that contraction is less likely to recur if the lands are slowly divided by means of a ligature passed round them from vithin the mouth. If the band were very narrow, and healthy mucous nembrane existed on each side, which could be drawn in by contraction of he sore in healing while the mouth was gagged open, some benefit might suit, but practically such a condition is never met with. Various attempts It plastic operations, similar to those performed for faulty cicatrices in the ;kin, have been suggested and attempted, but no good result has been obtained. \n order to relieve this distressing deformity, Esmarch, of Kiel, in 1855, uiggested division of the jaw and the formation of a false joint in front of the ■icatricial bands. About the same time, Rizzoli, of Bologna, made a similar iuggestion. In Eizzoli's method the jaw is simply divided from within the nouth with a pair of strong cutting pliers ; in Esmarch's operation a wedge- shaped piece of bone with the apex towards the alveolar border is removed a ith a saw from an incision made from outside at the lower border of the jaw. '|rhe performance of the operation is sufiiciently easy, but considerable diffi- culty is found in maintaining the movement between the fragments after ncatrization is complete. The tendency to re-union by bone, or by fibrous •jssue so dense as to prevent all movement, is certainly less when a con- siderable piece of the jaw is removed. Christopher Heath, who was one of :he first to perform the operation in this country, expresses a strong preference for Esmarch's operation. In one case operated on by him by this method in 1864, the patient was found to have good use of the sound side of the jaw in 1880. The wedge of bone removed measured seven-eighths of an inch at the ower border.