II30 DISEASES OF THE BL ADD Eli. ated mass, or spread over a considerable area of the bladder wall The base from which they arise may be almost level with the surface'of the bladder, or may form a fleshy mass of some thickness. Microscopic exami- nation shows that each papilla is composed of a fine capillary loop, surrounded by an extremely delicate connective tissue, in some parts almost homoReneou« with numerous rounded or spindle-shaped cells scattered through it The surface is covered with epithelium of the same character as that of the bladder but more delicate. The cells are often oval or fusiform, and are arranged in several layers. This delicate epithelium separates almost im- mediately if the growth is put in water, and is consequently often lost in microscopic specimens. The base is composed of loose and highly vascular connective tissue. These tumours almost invariably spring from the neigh- bourhood of the trigone, although rarely from the trigone itself. Hurry Fenwick found that in 43 per cent, the growth is attached to the orifice of the right ureter, in 26 per cent, to that of the left, and in 10 per cent, to the interureteral region. They are usually single, but occasionally two or more are found. Thompson states that only about one in six or seven is distinctly pedunculated, tlie great majority being more or less sessile. When pedunculated, the pedicle may, in rare cases, be of considerable length, sometimes an inch or more. Other simple tumours are occasionally met with. Thus in children simple mucous polypi have been observed. They are smooth or nearly smooth on the surface, and composed chiefly of myxomatous tissue, similar to that seen in the simple polypus of the nose. In others the connective tissue basis of the tumour was so firm and the papillation on the surface so imperfect that the growth has been described as a fibroma. Probably all these growths are closely related to each other, consisting essentially of an outgrowth from the submucous tissue of the bladder. Myomata also, or tumours containing non-striated muscular fibre, have been met with springing from the wall of the bladder. S3rmptoms.—Simple tumours of the bladder occur usually in youth or early middle age. The earliest symptom in all forms of simple tumour is painless haemorrhage. At first it is small in amount and intermittent, but as the disease progresses it becomes more abundant and ahnost constant. The characteristic sign of haemorrhage from a villous tumour is that the blood is not uniformly mixed with the urine, but comes chiefly towards the end of micturition, sometimes dropping away almost pure after the urine has ceased to flow. The quantity may be very large, and clots are often passed. As the disease advances frequency of micturition and the general signs of irritability of the bladder may make their appearance, but hsematuria may form the only symptom for many months or even years, I have known abundant h£ematuria to continue for many years—for twelve or fourteen—probably from a papil- loma, without deranging the general health to so great an extent as might be Fig. 901.—Villous Tumour of Bladder.