343 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS. place, profuse discharge followed by hectic or chronic septic poisoning comes on, and pyfemia is not unfrequently developed ; if the patient escape these dangers the joint may become useless or cumbersome, and its removal by amp'iitation or excision must be practised. When an attempt is made to save the joint after suppuration has taken place, very special attention will be required, in consequence of the softening of the ligaments, to prevent dis- placement of the osseous surfaces either laterally or antero-posteriorly ; this may be produced partly by the weight of the limb and partly by the traction of the muscles. Any neglect of proper precautions in the more minute details of the application and adjustment of proper apparatus may be followed by a very considerable amount of deformity. Should the joint already have assumed a faulty position, in consequence of the Surgeon neglecting to support it properly in splints in the early acute stage, the patient may be antesthetized, and the malposition of the hmb gently corrected. With regard to the treatment of the special forms of acute arthritis, Httle need be said. That of Acute Septic Arthritis from a wound has already been described. In Pi/cemic Arthritis, most commonly little can be done owing to the constitutional condition of the patient, but should there be no visceral complications a cure not unfrequently results after free antiseptic incision, drainage, and rest. Ankylosis almost invariably ensues. In Acute " Rheu- matic " Arthritis, perfect rest, leeches, and hot fomentations must be tried. Should suppuration take place, fi-ee incisions may be successful in saving the joint. In Acute Arthritis secondary to disease of the hones, the resu ts of treatment are not very satisfactory. An attempt may be made to save the joint by removing sequestra and treating the carious surface as described in the Chapter on Disease of Bones, but it often fails, and amputation or excision becomes necessary. In Acute Arthritis of Infants, the joint must be laid freely open as soon as pus forms, and by this means the limb can usually be saved. In Senile Arthritis, the treatment must be conducted on ordinary principles of rest, fomentations, opiates, and supports. But at last, in order to prevent destruction of life by pain and exhaustion, the question of amputa- tion will arise ; and, serious as this may be in old people, it will be the only alternative and chance of escape from a painful death. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF JOINTS. This important group of joint affections has long been studied under the various names of " Strumous Arthritis," " White Swelling " (Wiseman), " Pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane " (Brodie), " Tungous inflammation of joints," etc. During recent years, however, the observa- tions of numberless workers both in this country and abroad have shown incontestably, that all these affections, although differing widely in their chnical manifestations, are tuberculous in nature. It is impossible here to consider in any detail the large amount of evidence, both clinical and pathological, upon which this view is based. It is, indeed, in most respects, similar to that which has already been mentioned in con- nexion with tuberculous diseases of bones (p. 267) : thus the histological examination of the diseased tissues, the presence of the tubercle bacillus, and the frequent association of these chronic joint affections with tuberculous lesions elsewhere, point with certainty to their true nature.