400 DISEASES OF THE HAND. day HI the fingers, e a oh being bent and extended every day fully, while the wrist is kept firmly on the splint and disturbed as little as possible during the treatment of the fingers. Special care must be taken to flex the metacaipo- plialangeal articulations, which are very apt to remain stiff. Pronation and supination must not be too long neglected. Passive motion must be maintained as long as there is any tendency to the formation of adhesions in the sheaths of the tendons. As the hand becomes stronger, the part of the splint sup- porting the fingers may be out off. The patient must continue to use some support as long as he feels any weakness in the wrist. There is often some tendency to dropping of the wrist to the ulnar side, which is best counteracted by a properly constructed gutta-percha splint. The thumb is apt to be drawn in towards the index finger ; this must be prevented by a thick pad of lint kept from the earliest time between the two. The essential points are, first, exact attention to all the details of the opera- tion, and next, a careful and patiently conducted after-treatment. Other methods of excising the wrist have been introduced by Oilier and Fig. o60.—Listei-'s Splint with Cork Support for Hand. Fig. ul51.—Hand after Excision of Wrist, laid on Splint. Langenbeck, the former by means of two dorsal incisions, the latter by a single dorsal incision along the outer border of the tendon of the extensor indicis. Results.—Since Lister described his method of operating, excision of the wrist for disease has become a recognized operation of Surgery, and has been practised successfully by West (five cases), Gillespie, and many other Surgeons. In military surgery, however, according to the statistics of the American war, the results of the operation have been far from encouraging in regard to the amount of mobility left to the hand. CONSERVATIVE SURGERY OF THE HAND. In the removal of diseased or injured portions of the hand, it is, as a genei-al rule, of the greatest importance to sacrifice as little as possible of the healthy or uninjured structures. In all operations on the hand, indeed, we must keep two great principles in view—the preservation of the utility of the member, and the maintenance, as far as practicable, of its symmetry. Utility is