592 DISEASES OF THE NOSE. connected with hepatic disease and jaundice. Epistaxis is in some cases associated with purpura; more rarely it occurs in patients suffering from hiiemophilia. It is sometimes a prominent symptom in sarcoma of the bones of the nose. T'rm/mew^.—Epistaxis must not be treated simply as a local disease of the nose. It is usually only a symptom of some constitutional condition or visceral disease that must be remedied before the hsemorrhage can be expected to cease. Hence it is of the first importance to treat on ordinary medical principles those states of plethora or cachexy with which it may he associated, or those conditions of disease of liver or of kidney that are met with in persons suffering from it. In young people, otherwise healthy, and in slighter cases, epistaxis may commonly be arrested by the employment of ordinary domestic means, such as pinching the nostrils between the finger and thumb or the application of cold to the nape of the neck and forehead. The patient should be placed in the recumbent position with the arms raised above the head. The return of the epistaxis may be prevented by the use of purgatives, or in girls by attention to the proper regulation of the menstrual function. In plethoric adults the flow should not be too suddenly checked, especially if the pulse be very hard and incompressible. Should it prove very abundant, dry cupping between the shoulders, and the application of an ice-bag to the forehead, with rest, will be required. In anaemic subjects, and in old people, the hasmorrhage is often dangerous, and requires the use of active measures for its suppression. In these cases the following plan should be adopted. The head should be raised, an ice-bag applied to the forehead, complete quietude enjoined, and gallic acid in ten- grain doses, or half-drachm doses of the tincture of ergot or of tincture of hamamelis, administered at frequent intervals. Should the bleeding still be profuse and continuous, a current of iced water may be made to flow through the nose by means of the nasal douche, or the interior of the nose may be «p((nged out with a solution of perchloride of iron or tannin. Ergotine maybe given in three-grain doses as an injection into the muscles of the back. If the nose be carefully dried with cotton-wool and examined with a speculum, it may happen that a definite bleeding point can be seen to which the actual cautery or some styptic solution can be applied. If none of these means succeed, it will become necessary to plug one or both nostrils. This maiy be done by carefully pushing into the nostril some strips of lint «oated in a strong solution of tannic acid. Each strip should have a string attached to it to make sure that it is not lost in the nasal cavity. A piece of dried sponge, having a quill or a piece of gum catheter passed through it for breathing purposes, may be used instead of hnt. Perchloride of iron should be used only as a last resource, us it is apt to cause ulceration of the mucous membrane. Various forms of nasal tampon have been devised ; the essential feature of all being a thin india-rubber bag, which can be introduced in the collapsed state into the nostril and distended with air or water. If any one of these be at hand it forms by far the best means of plugging the anterior nares. Should the hEemorrhage still continue, the blood passing back into the throat, and perhaps being swallowed, the posterior nares require to be plugged as well. This operation should, however, be deferred until it becomes absolutely