"96 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA, oaly vessel, indeed, whicli is at all endangered, is the artery of the bulb • and this will of course be avoided by carefully keeping in the raphes 3. To enter the point of the knife behind the stricture, and to divide that by cutting forwards in the groove of the staff. _ 4. i\ruch difficulty has occasionally arisen in the introduction of the catheter into the bladder after the division of the stricture. This may be avoided bv passing a broad director, with the groove turned up, into the posterior part of the urethra after the stricture has been cut, but before the staff is withdrawn As the catheter is passed down the canal, its point will be guided bv thi« onwards into the bladder. ^ Where there are more strictures than one, the division of the deepest is usually alone necessary ; the others may be dilated. ResulL—T\\Q result of the perinasal section, so far as the life of the patient IS concerned, is usually satisfactory ; yet cases have not unfrequently occurred in winch a fatal termination has been the consequence, and there is every reason to believe that such cases have been more numerous than the advocates of this operation have been willing to admit. Occasionally, an incurable fistula has been left in the perinteum; and not unfrequently accidents of a grave though not fatal character, such as inflammatory oedema of the scrotum, perinseal abscess, &c., have supervened. The whole value of urethrotomy will at last depend on the liability of the stricture to return after its division ; and this point has not as yet been by any means satisfactorily determined. The operation is now rarely practised, being reserved for cases complicated by urinary fistula or perineal abscess, Its place has been taken by internal urethrotomy in all ordinary cases. Its advocates formerly maintained that it was a permanent cure, but as in all other operations for stricture, the ultimate result depends upon keeping up dilatation of the urethra for some months after the division of the stricture, a catheter of full size being passed once in a week or ten days. If this pre- caution be neglected, relapse will certainly occur. Against external urethro- tomy it has been argued that, like a wound, the incision into the urethra- might occasion a cicatrix which would contract, and thus eventually tend still further to lessen the diameter of the canal. But post-mortem examination of patients who have died some years after this operation had been performed has shown that the idea is groundless, the cicatrix being linear and scarcely perceptible. In fact, there is a great difference in the result, between cases in which the urethra has been divided transversely and those in which it has been incised longitudinally. In the former, a dense and contractile cicatricial mass is formed ; in the latter, a linear and scarcely perceptible scar. 6, Excision.—Complete or partial excision of the stricture, followed in some instances by suture of the divided ends of the urethra, has been practised with some success by Guyon, Keyes, and others. In a considerable number of the recorded cases the stricture has been traumatic in origin. It can only be in very exceptional cases that such treatment is advisable or even practicable. Excision would be available in a case of traumatic stricture in which other treatment had failed or in which an instrument could not be passed, also iu some cases of obstinate perinajal fistula. The operation consists in making a median incision in the perinajum exposing the urethra at the seat of constric- tion. The latter, with the indurated tissue around it, is excised either partially