SPINA BIFIDA : TREATMENT. \m arches. Possibly in the case of a simple meningocele the former 'may be the true explanation. In the meningo-myelocele, however, as pointed out by B. W. Parker and Shattock, this theory will not explain the displacement backwards of the cord and its fusion with the thin central part of the sac. In these cases it is apparently due to a primary arrest of development of the neural arches occurring at a very early period immediately after the separation of the part of the epiblast forming the spinal cord from that forming the epithelial covering of the body. Normally this should be fol- lowed by the development of two processes of the mesoblast, one from each side, which insinuating themselves between the epithelium and the primitive spinal cord, subsequently develop into the neural arches and membranes of the cord. An arrest of the development of these processes explains the pathological appearances in this form of spina bifida. The Diagnosis of the different forms is in many cases impossible. When the tumour is pedunculated and covered by healthy skin, it is probably a simple meningocele. When it is sessile, covered in great part by thin, almost translucent, scar-like tissue, and presents a furrow or depression in the middle line, it is almost certainly a meningo-myelocele. The syringo-myelocele cannot be recognized with certainty. The Prognosis is always bad. Spontaneous cure does, however, occa- sionally take place, 14 such cases having been collected by the Committee of the Clinical Society ; but these form a small percentage of the whole. A simple meningocele is not incompatible with long life if it is pedunculated and covered with healthy skin. The meningo-myelocele is commonly fatal if not relieved by treatment, death usually occurring from convulsions, or from ulceration and perforation of the sac and septic meningitis. The syringo- myelocele is probably inevitably fatal. The larger the tumour in all forms the worse is the prognosis. It may be stated as a general rule, that spina bifida is more dangerous the higher it is seated on the spine. Paralysis of the parts below the deformity is a hopeless complication. Treatment.—In cases in which the infant is otherwise healthy, the tumonr small, pedunculated, and covered by healthy skin, and showing little or no tendency to increase, we shall probably best consult the welfare of the child by abstaining from all operative interference, and merely protecting the tumour by a piece of leather or cotton-wool. On the other hand, if the tumour is increasing in size, there is little hope of recovery without operative interference. According to the Committee of the Clinical Society, the best results are to be hoped for in children who have reached the age of two months, in whom there is no paralysis or hydrocephalus, and when the sac is covered by healthy skin. Distinct evidence of the cord being in the shown by umbilication and a longitudinal furrow ; a very thin membranous or ulcerated sac ; previous rupture ; the occurrence of a distinct impulse between the sac and the anterior fontanelle ; a sac, the contents of which are easily returned into the spinal canal, and a very early age of the patient are all unfavourable conditions, yet do not necessarily contra-indicate operation if the general health is good. If the child is wasted, hydrocephalic, or paralysed below the tumour, any surgical interference will probably only hasten the inevitable death. Six methods of treatment have been adopted for the cure of spina bifida : puncture or aspiration followed by pressure ; ligature of the neck of the sac ;