7^4 DISEASES OF THE LARYNX. same direction. It was, however, the celebrated singer (iarcia, who, in 1854 by t^hrovving the sun's rays into the back of his mouth from a mirror },.ld in' lis left hand, and then introducing a dentist's reflector into his mouth saw t le image of his own larynx and studied its movements in the reflection of the looking-glass. But it is undoubtedly to Czermak tiiat the merit is due of having been the first, in 1S57, to apply laryngoscopy to the studv and diagnosis of diseases of the larynx. The larymjoscope essentially consists of two instruments, a reflector, which may be attached by a spectacle-frame or an elastic band to the Surgeon's fore- head, and a mirror (Fig. 755), which is held in his right or left hand, accord- ing to circumstances. The patient sits with his back to a good light; that of the sun does very well if it can be obtained, but usually artificial ligrht has to be employed. This may be obtained from a lamp, the flame of which should be a little above the level of the patient's ear. The Surgeon, facing the light, arranges the reflector in such a way that, whilst both he and the patient^are Pig. 755.—Throat Mirror, in easy positions, a well defined circle of light covers the patient's moutli. If, as in many arrangements, the reflector be over one eye of the Surgeon, he must so place it that he sees clearly through the hole in the centre, and cau consequently employ both eyes in examining the throat. The patient now having the head very slightly inclined backward, opens his mouth and puts out his tongue. The Surgeon grasps the tip of the tongue gently betweea the forefinger and thumb of his left hand, covered by a cloth or pocket- handkerchief. He must be careful not to drag on the tongue, but merely to hold it steady, supporting it underneath and keeping it from being hurt by the lower teeth, by the forefinger passed across its under surface. He now takes the small mirror and warms it over the lamp, so that the patient's breath may not condense on it and obscure the image of the larynx. Having warmed it till he sees the cloud of condensed moisture from the lamp dis- appear, he tests it against his own cheek to feel that it is not too hot, and then introduces it in the following way : The handle being held like a pen, and rather to the left side of the patient's mouth, the mirror is passed in carefully, having its surface parallel to the dorsum of the tongue, until the tip of the uvula rests on its back, and is pushed slightly backwards and up- wards by it. Care must be taken in doing this that the reflecting surface does not touch the tongue, and that the mirror is not passed so far as to touch the hack of the pharynx, which in most patients would cause an effort at swallowing. The mirror being in the position above described, the Sui'geon will, if he see anything, view the back of the pharynx reflected on its surliice ; but, by gently and steadily raising his hand, so as to render the angle formed by the surface of the mirror with the patient's body about half a right angle, he will bring the opening of the glottis into view. By raising the hand still a little further, he can examine the epiglottis and the root of the tongue. It