DISEASES OF ARTERIES 98 ulceration of an artery takes place, it is the result of causes acting from with- out, attacking- first the external coat, as in the case of a sloughing sore opening a main artery, or the pressure of a sequestrum in the popliteal space against the vessel. Spontaneous Rupture of an artery is rare, and never happens without previous disease of its coats. Experiments made by Peacock, which I have repeated, and the accuracy of which I can fully confirm, prove that a healthy artery will sustain a very great pressure from water injected into it, Avithout its walls giving way. But if these have been softened or weakened by disease, they may be unable to resist even the ordinary impulse of the blood ; and if this be driven on by any unusually forcible action of the heart, as under the influence of sudden violent strain or exertion, they may give way. This occur- rence would be much more frequent than it is in atheromatous and calcareous patches, were it not for the inflammatory consolidation of the external coat of the vessel supplying that resistance which has been lost by the softening or destruction of the internal and middle tunics. Hence this rupture is most frequent in those vessels the outer coat of which is the thinnest, and in which, consequently, it can least supply the place of the others, as in the arteries of the brain and in the intrapericardial portion of the aorta. The liability to rupture of a diseased artery by the distensile force of the blood impelled into it is increased by the existence of an obstacle to the free flow of the blood out of its terminal branches in consequence of a congested, infiltrated, or chronically thickened state of the organ or part supplied by it. Contraction and Occlusion of arteries are by no means rare sequences of lesions of these vessels, Narrowing of an artery may take place in various ways : the orifice of a branch leaving an atheromatous trunk is often narrowed by the formation of a ring-shaped thickening of the inner coat (p. 93), and the calibre is diminished in calcification of the middle coat (p. 96), syphilitic arteritis (Vol. I., p. 1132), and endarteritis proliferans (p. 93). Causes acting from without, as pressure, or contraction of chronic inflammatory or cicatricial tissue in the immediate neighbourhood of the artery, lead to a narrowing of " its lumen. In this way the axillary, the iliac, and even the aorta, have been j occluded. Tiedemann records from various sources no fewer than eight cases in which the abdominal aorta was completely closed, in all of which so full and efficient a collateral circulation had been set up that the vitality of the . lower part of the body was perfectly maintained, and in most the morbid . state was not suspected during life. Besides these cases, he states that there j are on record twelve instances of great narrowing of the aorta, at that point j where the ductus arteriosus is implanted into it in fcetal life. These would appear in some way to be connected with the closure of the duct; as in every ^ ease the indentation was greatest on the convex part of the aorta, which hadj been drawn in towards the mouth of the duct, The final obliteration of a diseased artery is most commonly the result of' thromhosis. Thrombosis takes place in arteries under much the same condi-.j tions as in the veins. Whenever the normal endothelial lining of the vessel is : lost or its " physiological integrity " impaired by degenerative changes, the blood tends to coagulate upon the diseased surface. The rapidity of the arterial flow, by preventing the adhesion of the white corpuscles, counteracts this tendency to a certain extent, but when the blood-stream becomes slackened either by great dilatation of a large trunk, or by narrowing of the orifice of a branch or feebler