HjEMORRHOIDS. 975 ' of loose ai-eolar tissue, in which a close net-work of tortuous veins is situated. I The blood, from this plexus of hemorrhoidal veins, finds its way into the general system through two distinct channels. By far the greater portion of Ft is carried into the inferior mesenteric vein, and thence into the vena porte, through the superior hEemorrhoidal vein, which maybe looked upon as the extreme radicle of the portal system ; and some passes into the internal iliac vein through branches that accompany the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries. We may, therefore, look upon the henaorrhoidal plexus as being placed midway between the portal and general venous systems, but as belonging rather to the portal than to the systemic veins. In these arrangements we see all the elements that would predispose to congestion, and consequent dilatation ■ -of the vessels of a part. There is a large and intricate plexus of veins in which, , as in all similar net-works, there is a tendency for the blood to circulate slowly ; : the natural tendency to stasis being much increased by the dependent position of the part, and by the absence of valves in the superior htemorrhoidal vein and in the vessels into which it pours its contents, the whole pressure of the column of blood in the portal system may be brought to bear upon the hsemorrhoidal plexus. The circulation through the portal system is likewise subject to much interference in consequence of obstruction in the liver and •elsewhere, and in these changes the blood in the hsemorrhoidal plexus also i participates ; and, were it not for the provision that exists by which this \ plexus may fi'ee itself to a certain extent from over-distension by its communi- cation with the internal iliac through the medium of the middle hsemorrhoidal vein, piles would be much more frequent than they even now are. Another I great cause of hsemorrhoidal enlargement is to be found in the want of support that the veins of this plexus experience on their mucous aspect during defseca- tion. Situated as they are in areolar tissue, between a plane of muscular fibres on one side, and yielding mucous membrane on the other, when distended by I the constriction which they undergo during defecation, i;,hey necessarily give ! way on that side on which they have the least support, being forced down, ! together with the mucous membrane under which they ramify, and which has a natural tendency to become slightly everted during the act of defecation. .Age exercises considerable influence in predisposing to piles. This disease • is not unfrequently met with in young men of eighteen or twenty years of age ; more especially if they be of a relaxed temperament with languid cir- culation, and be obliged to lead a more sedentary life than is natural. After this period, the hability to the disease diminishes until middle age is reached, when it becomes more marked than at any former period of life, owing to ; the more active operation of those causes that tend to impede the return of i the portal blood. Sex appears to exercise greater influence on the occurrence of hemorrhoids : at particular periods of life, than on the general liability to the disease. It I -certainly appears to be more frequently met with in men at an early age, than in young women ; but at a later period of life, the disease occurs with nearly equal frequency in the two sexes. The comparative exemption of young women is readily accounted for, by the periodic discharges from the uterus preventing the congestion that might otherwise occur in the parts in its vicinity. The greater frequency in females at a later period of life is attri- I butable not only to the pressure of the gravid uterus on the veins, but also, I :after the cessation of the menses, to the congestion that is apt to be set up