285 OPERATIONS FOR CARIES. Before proceeding to the Removal of ihe Carious Portion of the Bone the hmb should be rendered bloodless by Esmarch's method. The diseased portion of bone is then exposed by a suitable incision through the sott parts The carious bone is best removed in most cases by means ot a Volkmann's sharp spoon, or a gouge. As a rule, the gouge is only necessary to remove the superficial parts of the bone in central caries. For cleaning out the actual cavity the spoon is much better, as it is less likely to injure surrounding parts, and by using instruments of various shapes every part of the cavity may be cleaned in the same way as a dentist cleans a carious tooth. In some cases it may be necessary to use a small trephine to open up the cavity in the afPected bone. I have found the gouge-forceps (Fig. 521) very useful in clearing away angular fragments and projections of bone. In some cases Marshall's osteotrite (Fig. 514) will be found a very serviceable instrument, clearing away the softened carious bone without risk to the surrounding healthy structures. In removing carious bone with these instruments, the Surgeon may sometimes be at a loss to know when he has cut away enough. In this he may generally be guided by the difference in texture between the diseased and healthy bone ; the former cutting soft and gritty, readily yielding before the instrument, whilst the latter is hard and resistant ; so that, when all the disease is removed, the walls of the cavity left will be felt to be compact and smooth. In some cases, the healthy bone may have been softened by- inflammation ; should there be any doubt as to the condition of what has been gouged out, the question may be settled by putting the detritus into water, when, if carious, it will become either white or black, whereas if healthy, but inflamed, it will preserve its red tint. In operating on young children especially, it is important not to use too much force, lest the inflamed, but otherwise healthy though somewhat softened bone, be cut away together with that affected by After the operation the cavity must be carefully caries. Pis 514.—Mar- shall'sOsteotrite cleaned to remove any detritus or loose fragments that may be left behind. This is best done by means of pieces of sponge held in a pair of forcipressure forceps. The sponges should be moistened with chloride of zinc (gr. xl. to 3]*) or liquefied carbolic acid so as to disinfect the wound thoroughly. All unhealthy granulation tissue lining the sinuses should be scraped away with the sharp spoon. A few grains of iodoform may be introduced into the cavity and a small piece of green oiled silk may be put on the wounds to prevent scabbing. Unless the wound is large it may be left open to heal by granulation. In large wounds a catgut stitch may be put in at each end. Drainage-tubes should be avoided if possible. The best dressing is iodoform or salicylic wool, applied so as to form a covering about an inch and a half to two inches thick over the wound, and extending at least six inches on each side of it. This may be changed at the end of a week for the purpose of removing the drainage-tube if one has been inserted. A similar dressing is then applied, and if the part affected is near a joint, a plaster-of-Paris bandage may be put over it and left on for a month or six weeks, unless some discharge shows out from beneath it, or the patient com-