FJEGAL ACCUMULATION. 905 same, whether the cause lies without or within the gut. They consist m gradu- ally increasing difficulty in obtaining relief from the bowels. At first this is . -vercome by purgatives. The periods of constipation are frequently followed by aiarrhcea. This alternation of constipation and diarrhoea always suggests the i-xistence of some narrowing of the great intestine. In some cases the motions become gradually smaller, but this occurs only when the stricture is low down. In other cases the bowels act with great frequency, the motions being small in quantity and frequently loose. The passage of blood and mucus is an im- portant sign of malignant ulceration. The patient at the same time suffers from dyspeptic symptoms, eructations, loss of appetite, and foul tongue. The complexion becomes muddy and unhealthy, and there is usually more or less loss of flesh. The abdomen becomes full, and the distended great intestine may often be recognized without difficulty. After these symptoms have existed for a longer or shorter time complete obstruction sets in with the signs already described. Mechanism of Obstruction of a narrowed Large Intestine.—The tinal obstruction of the narrowed gut usually occurs as the result of the im- paction of a hardened mass of faeces, or some indigestible material in the stricture. In other cases it apparently arises from kinking, bending, or twist- ing of the distended bowel above the stricture, for it is very common, after colotomy has been performed to relieve prolonged complete obstruction, for che feeces to pass freely again for some time by the natural passage. Prognosis.—Chronic obstruction, if unrelieved, is, of course, ultimately fatal, either from exhaustion or from perforation of the gut, most commonly in the c£ecum. It often happens, however, that the first attack passes off after one or two weeks' complete obstruction. This seems to arise from gradual soften- ing of a faecal mass impacted in the stricture owing to an abundant exudation from the irritated mucous membrane above the narrowed point. When the obstruction gives way it is usually followed by copious diarrhoea. If no relief is obtained, the duration of the case may vary from three weeks to two months. Much will depend upon the treatment. If the patient is properly fed, and not poisoned by powerful purgatives, life will usually be prolonged to six weeks or more without operative interference. Fsecal Acctnuulation.—Obstruction from accumulation of hardened faeces occurs with infinitely rare exceptions in the great intestine only. It is most common in women, especially in those liable to hysteria. It is merely an exaggeration of habitual constipation. The gut, from being constantly dis- tended, becomes partially paralysed and unable to expel its contents, relief being obtained only by the use of enemata and purgatives. A large fascal mass «,ccumulating under these conditions becomes gradually hardened by absorp- tion of its more fluid constituents, and by pressing on and distending the gut leads to more complete paralysis of the part in which it is lodged. These masses are most commonly met with filling the rectum and sigmoid flexure, but they are not uncommon in the caecum, and may be arrested at any part of the colon. The Symptoms are less severe than in other forms of ob- struction. Vomiting may not come on till a very late period, and is rarely atercoraceous. The digestion and appetite become impaired, the complexion becomes yellow or earthy, there are unpleasant eructations, a foul tongue, and offensive breath. There is some loss of flesh. The abdomen becomes more or less distended, and coils of small intestine in active peristaltic movement are