386 DISEASES OF THE SIfOULDER-JOINT. an incision made through the posterior fibres of the deltoid, commencing immediately below the root of the acromion, and carried downwards for an inch and a half or two inches, but not so low as to endanger the circumflex nerve and artery. The space thus obtained is limited, and does not allow of a methodical subperiosteal excision being performed as above described, but in most cases the capsule is softened by the disease, and the adhesion of the tendons so far loosened that there is no difficulty in forcing the head of the bone out of the wound. This operation has been performed with the best results by Christopher Heath in University College Hospital. xVfter excision of the joint, the arm must be well supported in a sling, the elbow especially being raised. A pad should be placed in the axilla to prevent the tendency of the pectoralis major, teres major, and latissimus dorsi to draw the arm inwards. The union, which is by granulation, is usually slow. Result.—The shoulder-joint in its normal condition possesses five distinct movements : 1. Kotation ; 2. Abduction and Elevation ; 3. Adduction ; 4 and 5, movements in the antero-posterior direction. The most useful moyementa are those of abduction, and the two in the antero-posterior direction. These are requisite in all ordinary trades and for the guidance of the hand in most of the common occupations of life. The movements of elevation are, seldom required, except by those who follow climbing occupations, as sailors, bricklayers, &c. Now the mode of performing the operation, as well as th"" operation itself, will materially influence these different movements. Thus, i the deltoid be cut completely across by an elliptical incision, and the circum flex nerve divided, the power of abduction of the arm and of its elevation will be permanently lost. If its fibres be' merely split by a longitudinal incision' (Fig. 548), they may be in great part preserved. The movements of rotation, &c., which are dependent on the actions of the muscles that are inserted into the tuberosities of the humerus, are usually permanently lost; for in most cases of caries of the head of the humerus requiring excision, the Surgeon will find it necessary to saw through the bone below the tuberosities —iS its surgical, and not in its anatomical neck. Hence the connexion of the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and teres minor, and the subscapularis to the bone will be separated. Should the Surgeon however succeed m main- taining the connexion of the capsule of the joint and the tendons with the periosteum by adopting the subperiosteal method of operating above de- scribed, the divided tendons may form new attachments to the humerus, aud the muscles retain their functions in a greater or less degree. Those muscles which adduct and which give the antero-posterior movements, viz., thecoraco- brachialis, the biceps, the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi and teres major will all be preserved in their integrity ; and hence it is that the arm after th s excision, is capable of guiding the hand in so great a variety of ^ff^^^^ handed movements. In the case of a man whose shoulder-jomt I exc sea many yerago, I last saw the patient about fifteen years after the opera lo^" had been performed ; the upper end of the humerus had ^eeu d« - - neath and between the acromion and coracoid processes, where a false joint Tad formed The arm was extremely useful, and all the parts below the elbow w^re well developed. The upper arm was shortened by two and ^ ^"Excit'n of the shouldor-joint is on the whole a very successfd operation^ as re~i?e as weU as limb. Hodges has collected 50 cases of excision of 1