MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF PAROTID. 607 -rowth. These may be actual cysts coutaining a glairy fluid formed by mucous softening-of the. cartilage, or they may be due to the presence of a mass of gelatinous tissue, presenting under the microscope the typical liranched cells and mucous intercellular substance of a myxoma. These rumours grow slowly, often taking many years to reach the size of a walnut, l>ut at any time they may take on active growth and reach a large size in a comparatively short time, becoming even as large as a cocoa-nut. The skin covering them becomes thin but not adherent, and not unfrequently a network of veins covers the mass. The simple tumours being distinctly encapsuled \ cry rarely send any deep prolongations behind the jaw or come into relation with the large blood-vessels. The facial nerve may be adherent to the under surface, but is seldom implicated in such a way as to cause paralysis. Besides the ordinary "parotid tumom'" pure cartilaginous growths are not uncommon, . Fig. 678.—Simple "Parotid Timionr." Fig. 079.—Simple " Parotid Tiuiiour" : Back View and more rarely pure fibromata and myxomata are met with. Cysts, except as secondary formations in solid tumours, are very rare. Malignant Tumours of the parotid are of moderately frequent occurrence. They are most commonly soft glandular carcinomata (encephaloid), bub soirrhus has been met with in this situation. They originate in the gland itself and not in the structures superficial to it, as is the case with the simple growths. They present the ordinary rapid growth of such tumours ; they are from the first fixed and deeply seated, and early implicate the skin. Spindle-celled and round-celled sarcomata are occasionally met with in this region springing from the bones or fasciae. They grow rapidly and implicate the surrounding parts. They frequently send prolongations under the ramus of the jaw and occupy the whole of the space between its angle and the mastoid process. They are often firmly bound down beneath the fascia cover- ing the parotid and surround the large vessels at an early period of their growth. As they increase in size they implicate the styloid process and its muscles and come into relation with the internal carotid and the internal jugular vein, and may at last press upon the pharynx and project into the