ANKYLOSIS. even when the joint was moved. There was coarse grating on moving the joint. The capsnle was tensely distended with fluid. Two months after, the swelling was gradually subsiding. In 1885 the patient suffered from a tem- porary attack of neuritis of the right musculo-spiral nerve with paralysis of the extensors of the wrist and fingers. An analysis of the 66 cases collected by the Committee of the Clinical Society shows that in 41 a single joint was affected, in 19 two joints, and in only 6 were more than two attacked. In the 66 cases 100 joints were affected in the following order of frequency : knees, 45; hips, 24; shoulders, 13; elbows, 7; tarsus, 5; metatarso-phalangeal joints, 4 ; wrist, 1 ; phalangeal joints, 1. The patJioloffical appearances found after death are similar to and in many cases identical with those already described as being met with in rheumatoid arthritis (p. 354). The chief differences are, first, that the wearing away of the surfaces is often very extensive, and that the formation of ossifying cartilaginous outgrowths round the joint is very limited, or even wanting ; and secondly, that true dislocations are common from relaxation of the ligaments, whereas in rheumatoid arthritis they are rare, and when present are due, not to relaxation of the ligaments, but to pressure of the bony outgrowths. It has been suggested that Charcot's disease is merely rheumatoid arthritis occurring in a patient suffering from locomotor ataxy, and that the wearing away of the bones is aggravated by the inco-ordinate movements of the limbs and the want of sensation in the joint. There seems, however, httle reason to regard this as the true explanation of the disease, for it usually sets in before marked inco-ordination is present. It is further distinguished from arthritis deformans by its most commonly affecting a single joint, by its sudden invasion, by the abundant effusion commonly met with in the early stages, by the occa- sional retrogression of the disease, and by the abnormal lateral mobility, in all which points it is the exact reverse of rheumatoid arthritis. The Committee of the CHnical Society after careful inquiry failed to find any case presenting the characteristic features of Charcot's disease in which the symptoms of tabes dorsalis were completely wanting. For the description of this disease I must refer the reader to works on medicine. It must suffice here to mention that the chief symptoms to be looked for are loss of knee-jerk, loss of sexual power, occasional incontinence of urine, loss of reaction of the pupil to hght while it still accommodates itself for near vision, want of co-ordination in the muscles of the limbs, inability to walk steadily with the eyes shut, lightning pains in the limbs and joints, occasional delayed or otherwise modified sensation in the limbs, and a history of the so-called " gastric crises." The Treatment of the disease is very unsatisfactory. Nothing can be done to cure, but the limb may sometimes be made more useful, and the destructive processes delayed by properly fitted supports or splints. Aspiration is occa- sionally useful to relieve the distension of the joints, but its effect is merely temporary. Pressure is also ineffectual in preventing the early effusion into the joint. ANKYLOSIS OR STIFF JOINT. Ankylosis is invariably the result of partial or total destruction of a joint by inflammation, and is one of the modes by which nature effects its repair. It consists in the more or less complete consolidation of the parts around and