SURGICAL TREATMENT OF EMPYEMA. 759 antiseptic precautions. The patient should be drawn well to the edge of the ■ ^le i that it may not be necessary to roll him on to the sound side, a position which is apt seriously to interfere with the breathing A point on Jhe ninth rib is chosen which is slightly external to the angle of the scapula when the arm is by the side. \n incision from two to three inches in length is made directly upon the rib the periosteum of which must be divided in the long axis of the bone. The wound is then held widely open with the blunt hooks and the periosteum stripped from the exposed part of the rib with an elevator, which must not be too sharp No difficulty will be found in turning the intercostal artery out o1 its o-roove at the lower border. A curved elevator is then passed completely unda- the rib and the bone divided in two places with a saw or bone-forceps, and about^an inch and a half of its length removed. The pleura should not be wonnded up to this stage in the operation. All bleeding having been arrested, the pleura may be opened and the tube inserted. If it be preferred the operation may be performed by a J'Shaped incision, but this usually presents no advantage over the simple longitudinal. The removal of a piece of rib is not accompanied by any difficulty or danger. Necrosis rarely follows, not more often apparently than after the simple insertion of a tube between the ribs. New bone rapidly forms from the periosteum, and after a time the continuity of the rib is restored, and sometimes a mass of bone fills the inter- costal spaces. The advantage of removing a piece of rib is that a larger opening can be made, which facihtates the escape of the masses of lymph which are often present in the pus, permits the introduction of the finger to investigate the condition of the cavity, and allows the use of a large drainage-tube. If the removal of the rib is not practised the opening is best made, as before said, in the sixth intercostal space about an inch in front of the posterior axillary Hue. An incision should be made about an inch and a half in length parallel to the upper border of the sixth rib and exposing it clearly. Any superficial vessel that bleeds may then be secured. The intercostal muscles and pleura are next punctured with the scalpel, guided by the left forefinger in the wound, immediately above the rib, so as to avoid the inter- costal artery. The blade of the knife must be parallel to the rib. A pair of dressing-forceps may then be introduced and the wound stretched by expanding the blades, after which the tube may be at once inserted. 8. The Tube.—The ordinary india-rubber drainage-tube should be used, but care must be taken that there is no hole in the part corresponding to the chest wall, as granulations are apt to sprout up into it and obstruct the lumen. It must be provided with a shield, lest it slip into the pleural cavity. The best form is that suggested by E. B. Baxter. It is thus prepared : In the middle of a piece of sheet india-rubber, about a sixteenth of an inch thick, and one inch and a half to two inches square, a round hole is cut of the same size as the drainage-tube. The tube is then passed through for a sufficient distance, and split into four pieces sufficiently long to reach to the four corners of the shield, to which they are attached by silver wire. The remainder of the tube on the other side of the shield must have holes cut in it at intervals, as in an ordinary drainage-tube. The tube must vary in diameter with the size of the cavity, and, as the discharge lessens, a smaller one may be substituted. It need never be more than two or three inches in length. Nothing is gained by