5 70 DISEASES OF THE SCALP AND SKULL. twice seen the liver secondarily affected in this way, death resulting. wiM cerebral disturbance from i.>testiual h^morrha,e ami ox W^^^ sideiable dano-er, not only on account of the perforation of the skull ..ml phcafon of the dura mater, but from the extreme vascuLity of th se tu" o^^^^ In a case of this kind, which 1 had an opportunity of seei.^m„rTa.o the growth was successfully removed by H. Phillips ^ ' Secondary sarcomata and carcinomata are also occasionally met with in fk bones 0 the skull In a case recorded by Morris, a large pul a n" tl:,.''; the skull was found to present the structure of he fch^'oid glar;d and L been recorded by other Surgeons. ^ Hernia Cerebri, arising from wound or ulceration of the dura mater h^^ already been described (Vol. I., p. 778). ' Meningocele and Encephalocele.-Various congenital conditions arc- met with m the head, which as in the analogous condition of spina bifida ar characterized by a protrusion of some part of the contents of the skull thrduc^h a deficiency in the bone. The protruded sac is formed by the meninges • the skin covering may be normal, but is often thin, and sometimes ulcerated When the contents of the sac consist of fluid only the condition is spoken of as memngocele; whilst when the sac contains cerebral substance it is called an enceplialocele. In some instances the brain substance in the sac is distended into a thm layer by a cavity within it which contains fluid and communicates with the ventricles; this variety has been called hydrenc&phalocele. The diagnosis between meningocele aud enceplialocele is generally difficult; the presence of translucency is not a proof that no brain substance is present, for this may be small in amount or expanded into a thin layer. The disease is usually speedily fatal. Z. Laurence found that, of 39 instances in which it occurred, 21 were males, 18 females ; that the protrusion may vary from the size of a pea to that of a tumour exceeding the child's head ; and that the occiput is its chief seat—of 79 cases, 53°being in this situation. The hernia may occur at several other points. It has been seen projecting through the anterior fontanelle. In this situation it has most fi-e- quently undergone spontaneous cure as the fontanelle closed. Numerous cases have been recorded in which it projected through a deficiency in the region of the cribriform plate into the nasal fossffi, or forwards into the face at the root of the nose, the nasal process and the neighbouring parts of the frontal bone being deficient. Lichtenberg has recorded a case in which it projected from the base of the skull into the pharynx. In these uncommon situations, the swelling may be mistaken for a polypus. In six of the cases collected by Z. Laurence, the subjects of this malformation reached an adult age ; in all the remaining cases they died early, or were still-born. The Diagnosis is as a rule easy, and the only diseases for which a meningocele is likely to be mistaken are naevi and dermoid cysts. In the majority of cases the position of these tumours is such as to exclude meningocele, but if they occur in the usual positions of meningocele the resemblance, may be close, and is increased by the fact that the skin over a meningocele is not uncommonly ngevoid, and on the other hand dermoid cysts of the scalp often lie over a depression or even a perforation in the bone. The Treatment of these affections is unsatisfactory, and in most cases no