I 48Q DISEASES OF THE SPINE. placed in its substance. A macerated specimen shows the hone to he eaten out into irregulai- hollows, around which the cancellous tissue is more porous than natural. In.a fresh specimen these hollows are filled with caseous granulati* n tissue. When the disease commences near an intervertebral disc, this is soon destroyed, and the contiguous surface of the next vertebra becomes implicated (Pig. 003). The friction of the diseased surfaces against each other then aggravates the process, and leads to more rapid destruction at the parts where they are in contact. In some cases instead of the bone being more spongy than natural round the excavations, it may be seen in the macerated specimen that the osteitis has assumed an osteoplastic form, the cancellous tissue being denser than natural, and its trabeculae thickened, just as a zone of dense bone is often found around a chronic abscess in the cancellous ends of the long bones. "When the disease leads to suppuration, the pus frequently raises the anterior common ligament from the vertebrae for some distance. This is more likely to happen when the resulting chronic abscess has opened externally and become septic. Rapid destruction of the intervertebral discs with which the pus comes in contact then frequently takes place. It is not uncommon to find tlji- vertebrae for some distance above and below the centre of disease bare in front, and looking as if macerated, while the cartilages between them have more or less completely disappeared. The chronic abscesses forming in connexion with caries of the spine are directed to the lateral aspect of the bodies of the vertebrae by the great thick- ness of the anterior common ligament. As the pus accumulates the abscess makes its way, as in the case of chronic abscesses generally, in the direction of least resistance, usually following the course of a vessel, or burrowing beneath the fascice covering muscles. Thus in disease of the dorsal vertebrae, the abscess follows the intercostal artery and passes between the ribs with the posterior branch, appearing under the skin of the back as a " dorsal abscess." In the lumbar region the abscess may in the same way follow a lumbar artery and form a "lumbar abscess," or enter the sheath of the psoas muscle and form a " psoas abscess," pointing below Poupart's ligament. When the caries is complicated by necrosis, the sequestra are frequently so entangled in the excavated cavity in the body of the vertebrae, covered in in front by the thickened anterior ligament, that it is impossible for them to make their way to the surface, and thus even if the disease ceases to extend, suppuration may be indefinitely prolonged till it causes the death of the patient. The angular projection backwards of the diseased part of the spine, corre- sponding in extent to the amount of destruction of the vertebra3, forms usually the most marked feature of the disease (Figs. 604—606). The mechanism of this is easily understood by reference to the pathology of the afi'ection. The bodies (one or more) of the vertebra, being softened or partly destroyed, at last give way under the weight of the upper part of the body ; the upper part bends forwards, and the spine projects posteriorly. At the same time that the upper part bends forwards, the lower part of the spine rarely maintains the j upright position as it did in Fig. 602. In the great majority of cases there is j a compensating incurvation just below the excurvated vertebras, and in this way the upper part of the body is carried erect. The angle of excurvation . varies according to the number of vertebral bodies destroyed, and the extent 1