MALIGNANT TUMOURS OF THE TONSIL. -707 cinoma rarely commences in the tonsil itself, but much more commonly extends to it from the root of the tongue or the pillars of the fauces. The tumour ulcerates early and deeply, and presents the hard base, foul surface and everted ed-es observed in ulcerating epithelioma elsewhere, it early afiects the a-lands. Lymphadenoma may affect the tonsil in common with other parts in which lymphoid tissue is abundant. In cases of general lynipha- denoma the enlargement of the tonsils may be associated with hypertrophy ot the lymphoid tissue at the back of the tongue, and on the posterior wail of the pharynx. ^ n j Lynipho-sarcoma (Yol. I., p. 1038) and ordinary small round-celled sarcoma are the most common forms of malignant disease affecting the tonsil The lympho-sarcoma forms a soft, sometimes semi-fluctuating tumour, rounded in form, often smoothly covered by tensely stretched mucous membrane, and projecting beyond the middle line of the pharynx, interfering more or less with deo-lutition and respiration. In most cases the growth speedily implicates the lymphatic glands , along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid. These tumours maybe loosely encapsuled, so that they can be shelled out easily with the finger after the mucous membrane covering them has been divided. Eound-celled sarcoma infiltrates the neighbouring parts more widely, and shows the same general malignancy. If these growths are left without opera- cion, swallowing becomes more and more difficult, respiration is impeded, ulceration and hEemorrhage may take place, and the patient dies in most cases from the effects of the local disease, but sometimes from secondary visceral growths. If the disease is far advanced and widely infiltrating surrounding parts, nothing can be done by operative means for the relief of the patient. In one case oi^a malignant tumour of the tonsil, however, I obtained some temporary advantage by removing portions of the soft projecting very vascular growth by. means of the ecraseur. When the tumour is stretching the mucous mem- brane over it without apparently implicating it, and when the whole mass seems movable in the side of the pharynx, it is probable that the tumour is a lymphadenoma or lympho-sarcoma, and it may then in many cases easily be removed from the mouth. The patient must be well gagged, the mucous membrane divided with a Paquehn's cautery-knife, and the mass enucleated with the finger. It is surprising with what ease and with how little heemor- rhage tumours of this kind, even when of considerable size, may be removed. Four cases have been treated in this way in University College Hospital. All recovered and were greatly relieved locally, but in all speedy recurrence took place in the glands of the neck. In one of Barker's cases, the glands were removed, and the patient was in good health a year afterwards. If the tumour is too deeply attached to be shelled out in this way, it may be brought more fully into view by dividing the cheek as in the buccal opera- tion for removal of the tongue, but this rarely gives enough room. It has therefore been attempted in several cases to expose the tonsil by incisions in the side of the neck. Cheever accomplished this by one incision along the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, and another joining it and passing along the lower border of the jaw. This method has been adopted by Golding-Bird and Chavasse, who made the second incision into the angle of the mouth instead of along the jaw, and by Haslam, Homans of Boston, and Raymond Johnson, who employed a single incision along the anterior border of the