144 ANEURISAl. The treatmeuc has been applied chiefly to aneurisms of the popliteal artery but in a few cases it has been successfully enii)loyed in other situations Tl,,' objects in view are, flrst, to empty the whole limb of blood as far as possible, witii the exception of the sac and the part of the artery in immediate connexio), with It ; secondly, to keep the blood distending the sac at perfect rest until coagulation has taken ])lace ; and thirdly, to protect the soft clot thus formed from the influence of the arterial current until it has become sufficiently toi.g], and solid to resist it, by compression of the trunk leading to the aneurism In the case of a popliteal aneurism, the treatment is thus carried out Th<' elastic bandage is first applied from the toes to tlie ham with sufficient force to render the limb bloodless ; it is then carried loosely over the tumour, so as not to empty the sac, and again applied firmly as high as the middle of the thigh ; the elastic tourniquet is then put on with sufficient force to arresl. the circulation completely. The bandage is better left on till the tourniquet is removed. The average time required for the application of the bandage is one hour and a half. The time during which the limb may be kept bloodless with impunity is uncertain. Heath kept the tourniquet on in one case for three hours, and in another for three hours and a quarter, without evil consequences : and Barwell in one case retained it for five hours. The limb must be wrapt in cotton-Wool, and, if necessary, warm bottles, at a temperature of about 100" F.. miiy be applied. The pressure causes severe pain, which may require the use of hypodermic injections of morphia ; but if the treatment is continued for more than one hour, it is usually necessary to administer an autesthetic. Before the bandage is removed a Carte's compressor may be applied, or arrangements made for keeping up digital compression, and this must be maintained for from two to six hours, even if all pulsation has ceased when the tourniquet is taken off. The mode by which the elastic bandage effects a cure is by causing stasis of the blood in the aneurism and the adjoining part of the artery. This stagnant blood coagulates, the clot being formed first in the aneurismal sac, and then spreading to the artery. Gould is of opinion that the permanent cure of the aneurism is effected chiefly by means of the portion of coagulum extending into the artery. This being in contact with the comparatively healthy walls of the vessel undergoes the changes described in the chapter on wounds of arteries (Yol. I., p. 416) ; the vessel is thus permanently occluded. The clot in the aneurism, on the other hand, being in contact with the un- healthy walls of the sac, or with layers of laminated fibrin, tends to become friable, and to yield before the pressure of the blood, unless protected by the thrombus in the artery. If, however, the vessel be safely occluded, the sac and its contents gradually shrivel and are absorbed. Failure has in some cases apparently been due to the bandage having been applied too tightly over the tumour, so that the sac was but partly filled by the coagulum. In other cases it may have been due to a want of coagulability of the blood, and in order to avoid the possibility of this it is well to submit the patient to a course of medical treatment and diet (p. il8) before applying the bandage. If, on removal of the bandage, there is still distinct pulsation to be felt, although the tumour seems partially consohdated, a cure may often be effected Jiy digital or instrumental compression in a few hours. The chief danger to be apprehended seems to be gangrene, which has