192 CASES OF LIGATURE OF INNOMINATE ATtTmiY—(r07ltmued). OPERATOR. 16. W. Thom- son. (Dublin.) SEX. m. 17. Bennett I m. May. IS. Banks. 19. Durante. (Rome.) 20. TWTNAM. 21. Jacobson. m. 49 30 18 m. 48 22. COPPIN- i m. GEE. (Dublin.) 53 NATURE OF DISEABK. Subclavian aneurism. RESULT. Subclavian aneurism. Subclavian aneurism. Subclavian aneurism. Subclavian aneurism. Subclavian and axillary aneurism. Subclavian and axillary aneurism. Died on 42n(l day. Died on 18th day. Eecovery. Died on 15th day. Died in 18 hours. Death on 16th day. Eecovery. REMARKtj. Secondary liajmorrhiige 30th and ! 39th days. The haemorrhage came from an opening in the artery, the result of ulceration. It was one quarter of an inch above the seat of ligature. An ox-aorta ligature was used. No trace of it was found at the 2)ost-mortcin. Secondary haemorrhage from | ulceration opposite the knot of : the ligature. Twisted strands' of catgut used after breaking of an ox-aorta ligature ; coats not divided. Kangaroo-tendon ligature ; coats j not divided. Common carotid also tied. Pulsation returned and aneurism increased. Liga- ture of first part of subclavian 67 days later. Death from se- condary haemorrhage on 37th day. Aneurism had become small and hard. The carotid and vertebral were also tied. Hsemorrhage occurred on 12th and 15th. Death from cerebral embolism. The aneur- ism was collapsed and contained coagula of varying consistence. The aneurism was traumatic. Silk ligature applied through me- dian incision. Carotid also tied. Death from cerebral symptoms. Ox-aorta ligature ; coats not divided. Carotid also tied. Death from broncho-pneumonia and exhaustion. The aneurism was almost full of jelly-like coagulum. Soft silk ligature applied through median incision. Carotiddivided between two ligatures Sixteen months after the operation the patient was in perfect health, and the aneurism was repre- sented only by a small movable and hard filbert-sized tumour." As will be seen from the above table, there are only three recorded cases of recovery after ligature of the innominate artery. In four other instances the operation has been commenced, but abandoned owing to unforeseen difficulties, and this by some of the most skilful operators that their respective countries can boast of. . , • v • Althou<Th in reasoning on the propriety of performing an operation, it is not in o-eSer'al worth while to take into consideration the difficulties that the SurseoS may encounter, provided the operation be practicable ; yet, when we consider that this operation has been left unfinished in several cases by Suro-eons who were well able to accomplish whatever was within the hmits ot