■arn wo PAROTITIS. 605 Idoin be safely removed owing to their adhesion to the carotid sheath If ' o-lands ai'e extensively adherent to the skin, no operation should be ompted. , Operation.—When once the true nature of the disease has been ascer- ,iiied, the operation should be performed without delay ; but before it is done is well that any very prominent or broken tooth should be removed, and tartar cleaned away ft-om the incisors. The operation requires to be some- ,at modified, according to the situation and extent of the affection (Fig. (574). If this be tolerably limited, a V-shaped cut, extending widely round it, and L-ied sufficiently low to include any indurated prolongation in the lymphatics, aid be made : the edges of the cut should then be brought together by ,) hare-lip pins with a twisted suture, as in the case of a simple hare-lip, :i' with silver-wire sutures. When the disease occupies a considerable longi- udinal extent, but does not dip down very deeply, a slice of the lip should be ,haved olf, including the whole of the morbid structure ; and it is often nirprising, in these circumstances, to observe how the tissues of the lip will -peedily rise to their natural level, no material deformity being left (Fig. 675). In some cases the disease occupies a square surface, and then it is necessary to excise a portion of the lip ; when this is done a considerable gap is left, I nquiring to be filled by some plastic operation of the kind that will be con- sidered in a subsequent chapter, which may be most conveniently done at the time when the excision is performed. When the disease occurs at the angle of the mouth, it assumes a mure intractable character than when affecting the free part of the lip. The same operation—that of free excision—may be applied to ii here as in the former case ; but with less prospect of success. Should the i-^ease be as extensive as in Fig. 676, the lines of incision must be so planned as completely to surround and to isolate it. .. C. Heath has very successfully extended this operation to cases in which the cancer of the lip had invaded the gum, and had involved the lower jaw, 1)V removing a portion of the implicated bone, together with the disease in the soft parts. Fig. 677 gives a good idea of the cases to which this operation is applicable. DISEASES OF THE PAROTID GLAND. Mumps or Parotitis is an acute specific disease, the local manifestation of which is inflammation of the parotid and sometimes of the other salivary- glands. It is common in children, though it not unfrequently occurs in adults. It is highly infectious, and frequently epidemic ; and, as in the other acute specific diseases, one attack generally protects the patient from the disease for the rest of his life. It has an incubative period of from two weeks to twenty-two days, but three weeks is the most common time. It commences, usually with some febrile disturbance and malaise lasting about twenty-four hours, but this may be wanting. At the end of that time one parotid gland becomes swollen and painful ; the swelling continues to increase till about the fourth day, at which time it reaches from the zygoma to the angle of the jaw. The swollen socia parotidis can usually be clearly felt over the masseter and forms a valuable diagnostic sign, distinguishing parotitis from inflammation of the lymphatic glands behind the. jaw. When the swelling is at its height, mastication is extremely painful. There is usually elevation of temperature, reaching 102'' F. or 10:-')° F. When one gland begins to subside-