1228 DISEASJiS OF THE PENIS AND SCROTUM. The flaps are uuited with sutures, and the urethra is sht up and adiusted with sutures to the edges of the opening in the upper flap. ^ If the amputation be performed too high up infiltration of urine may tuk. place into the scrotum, and to prevent this, it may be safer to introduce tu elastic catheter after the operation, and leave it in for a few days S If the glands in the groin are distinctly, but not too greatly,'enlarged, an a tempt should be made to remove them at the same time as the amputati<^ of the penis is performed. ^ In a case extending too far back to allow the performance of the ordinarl opemtion, Pearce Gould successfully removed the disease by dividing the scrotum and dissecting away the whole organ as far back as the crura, leaving an opening in the perinifium through which the patient subsequently passed water. Ihis operation has since been repeated in many cases with success. It has been recommended to remove the testes at the same time, as they are somewhat m the way during micturition, but this seems hardly necessary, i if after amputation of the penis much inconvenience arises from the urine it may best be avoided by following Ambrose Fare's advice of adapting a funnel, which may be made of metal, or ivory, to the pubes over the stump, and thus carrving the urine clear of the person. DISEASES OF THE SCROTUM. Haematoina of the Scrotum.—In rare instances, as the result of an injury or severe straining effort, an extravasation of blood occurs in the loose cellular tissue of the scrotum. The importance of the condition lies in the fact that it is likely to be mistaken for hematocele of the tunica vaginalis, in which the blood is often effused around as well as within the serous°cavity (p. 1246). ^ McCarthy has recently recorded an unusual case of this so-called " extra- vaginal haematocele." The patient was seventy-four years of age, and wa" admitted to the London Hospital on account of a large globular swelling in the left half of the scrotum. Above, the swelling presented a tubular pro- longation which extended into the inguinal canal, and over its lower part the skin was discoloured. The tumour fluctuated but was not translucent. Tin swelling had repeatedly been tapped, and, according to the patient, clear fluid had been drawn off. There was no history of any other injury, nor of cough or violent exertion. The swelling w^as tapped and 10 ounces of dark blood-stained fluid drawn off. In ten days the sac had refilled, and a smaller quantity of similar fluid was withdrawn. A month later, the swelling having again filled, an incision was made, and a large cavity containing dark fluid and lined with fibrine was- opened. In this cavity lay the testicle, with its tunica vaginalis distended with 2 ounces of clear fluid. The operation was followed by rapid recovery- The condition present was evidently due to gradual alterations in an extrava- sation of blood, which possibly in the first instance was the result of tapping the hydrocele. McCarthy points out that, with the exception of the slight dis- coloration of the skin, the signs were those of a hydrocele, opaque either from the thickness of its walls or the character of its contents. Inflammatory (Edema of the scrotum is an erysipelatous inflammation o this region, and derives its chief peculiarity from the circumstance of its giving-