ANEURISm. no Hodgson relates a case-of aneurism of the femoral artery of twenty years' duration, fligh arterial tension, as in cases of chronic Brighc's disease, with hypertrophy of the left ventricle, is undoubtedly favourable to profn'essive increase of an aneurism. Much also will depend on the situation^f the aneurism, the size of the mouth of the sac, and the relation of the sac to the impulse of the blood into it ; the larger and more direct the mouth of the tumour, the more readily will the blood be projected into it at each impulse of the heart, and the more quickly will it expand. Symptoms.—Tlic symptoms of an aneurism are of two kinds : 1. Those that are peculiar to this disease ; and 2. Those that are simply dependent on the presence of the tumour occasioned by the enlarging sac. The peculiar or pathognomonic signs are those that are dependent on the communication of the sac with the artery, and which are ascertained by the manual and auscul- tatory examination of the tumour; those that are dependent on the mere size of the growth are the pressure-effects. It is, of course, only in external aneurisms that those signs which are ascertainable on manual examination of the tumour can usually be recognized. In Internal aneurisms, in the majority of cases, the auscultatory signs and the pressure-effects afford the best indications of the presence and nature of the tumour; though, when this approaches the surface, much information can be gained by palpation. Symptoms of External Circumscribed Aneurism.—The tumour is usually round or oval, distinctly circumscribed, and in close connexion with some large artery. It is at first somewhat compressible, but afterwards becomes more and more solid as fibrin is deposited in it. The most marked sign is, perhaps, the pulsation that is felt in it from the very first. This is of a dis- tensile, eccentric, and expanding character, separating the hands when laid upon each side of the tumour, by a distinct impulse from within. The pulsa- tion is most forcible in an aneurism in which there is but little laminated fibrin ; and as this increases in quantity the pulsation gradually loses its tense expanding character, being converted into a dead thud, and in some cases ceasing entirely. When pulsation is obscure, the compression of the arteiy below the sac will cause it to become more distinct, or it may be increased in distinctness by . elevating the limb or part affected. When the artery above , the sac is compressed, the flow of blood into the tumour is necessarily aiTested, pulsation ceases, the tumour diminishes, and its size may be still further reduced by gentle pressure, which squeezes out a considerable quantity of its more fluid contents. If the hands be then laid upon each side of the tumour, and the pressure be suddenly taken off the artery, the blood will be found to rush into and distend the sac by a sudden stroke, separating the hands from each other. This may be looked upon as one of the most characteristic signs of aneurism. The iruit or sound emitted by the blood in its passage through an aneu- rismal sac was first noticed by Ambroise Pare. It varies much in character, being usually loud, rasping or sawing ; it is loudest and roughest in tubular aneurisms. Occasionally the bruit is double, and if so, it clearly indicates the sacculated nature of the aneurism. It is possible, however, that when great aortic regurgitation is present, the backward current of blood in the large vessels might give rise to a feeble diastolic murmur in a fusiform aneurism. In many cases it is altogether absent ; this especially happens in sacculated aneurisms with small mouths, and in those that are much distended with coao-ula. The absence of sound in a tumour, therefore, must not be taken