ANEURISM. ii6 phthisis), will greatly favour the deposit of laminated fibrin and the con- solidation of the tumour. As the aneurism undergoes spontaneous cure, the pulsation in it gradually becomes more and more feeble, until it ceases entirely ; the bruit proportion- ately lessens, the tumour becomes harder and smaller, and at last completely consolidated ; at the same time, the anastomosing circulation is established in some of the collateral vessels of the limb. Eventually, the solidified tumour shrinks in size, undergoing gradual absorption, with ultimate conversion into a small mass of fibroid tissue. Suppuration with sloughing of an aneurismal sac is not common, but is especially apt to happen in places where the ai-eolar tissue is abundant and lax, as in the axilla, and when the tumour has increased rapidly or become diffused, and thus is causing severe tension of the surrounding parts. The accident is not uncommon also after operations for the cure of aneurism m which the wound is close to or exposes the sac. The inflammation is then merely an extension from that in the wound, and is usually dependent upon septic contamination. Though the process is spoken of as suppuration of the sac, the inflammation commences in the tissues surrounding the aneurism, the sloughing of the sac itself being a secondary process dependent upon its nutrition being cut off by the pus that forms around it. The symptoms of this condition are swelling, tension with heat, throbbing, and redness of the > parts around the tumour ; the integuments covering it pit on pressure, and 1 are evidently deeply inflamed, at the same time that there is a good deal of , fever and general constitutional disturbance. As the suppuration advances, | the ordinary signs of acute abscess occur ; the skin becomes red and livid at ! one part, where pointing takes place ; and if the Surgeon make an incision j into it, or if the tumour burst (as assuredly it will if left to itself), a quantity of pus mixed with large masses of broken-down coagula will be let out. The discharge of the contents of the sac may be followed by a fatal gush of blood.- Occasionally, however, as a consequence of the inflammation the artery becomes firmly plugged by a thrombus above and below the opening into the aneurism before the sac gives way, and thus hgemorrhage may be prevented and a spon- taneous cure result, the cavity closing like an ordinary abscess after the sloughs and the broken-down clots have been discharged. Causes of Death from Aneurism.—An aneurism may prove fatal in various ways. It does so when internal, most frequently by 2)7-essi(re on parts ' of importance in its vicinity, the patient being destroyed by the exhauscion induced by interference with their functions ; this is usually the way in which aneurisms of the aorta occasion death. In other cases the sac bursts into the pericardium, pleura, or peritoneum, and sudden death may occur from loss of blood ; or asphyxia may result from its giving way into the trachea. Then, again, death may result by the occurrence of syncope, more especially if the , aneurism be of large size, and situated near the root of the aorta. Embolism , of the cerebral arteries may occur in consequence of the detachment of a clot. External aneurism most commonly proves fatal by rupture of the sac: this may either take place into the interior of a hmb, giving rise to one or other of the diffused forms of aneurism, and terminate fatally by the induction of syncope or gangrene ; or an aneurism may kill by rupture occurring ex'ternally, on one of the surfaces of the body. ' The rupture of an aneurism is not always immediately fatal, the aperture in