DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND COHD. T230 CHAPTER LXXIII. DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. MALPOSITION OP THE TESTIS. The testes are, in the foetus, situated in the himbar region below the kidneys^ and by a gradual transition they descend into the scrotum a short time befo«* birth. In its descent the testicle is preceded by a pouch of peritoneum thai processus vaginalis testis, which normally becomes afterwards closed above' and forms the tunica vaginalis. Although much doubt exists as to the exacf way m which the descent of the testicles is brought about, it seems probabll that the most important agent in the process is the gubermadum testis. ThS existence of this fibro-muscular structure has long been recognised, but ouri knowledge of its development and relations has been largely increased by the] recent researches of Lockwood aiui others. Above, the gubernaculum ends i J fibres which are attached to the vas, the epididymis, the body of the testis, andl the peritoneum of the back of the abdomen. Below, the fibres have been trace?^ to the abdominal wall in the position of the internal abdominal ring, whence others pass along the inguinal canal, some ending on the pubes, and othersi in the scrotum and perineum. Lockwood has also described a band, which can usaally be found in the earlier months, passing outwards into Scarpa's triangle. It is probable that the processus vaginalis as well as the testis itself owes its descent to the action of the gubernaculum, the upper fibres of which pass to the peritoneum. Under normal circumstances it is supposed that the testis is drawn to the position of the internal abdominal ring by the abdominal fibres of the gubernacukm. It is then drawn along the inguinal canal by fibres passing to the pubes, and finally drawn into the scrotum by the scrotal assisted by perinaeal fibres. The descent of the testis may merely be delayed so that, instead of the gland being in the scrotum at birth, one or both do not leave the abdomen until some time afterwards ; in other cases the testis is permanently aiTested at some spot along the line of its normal descent, whilst very rarely the organ leaves its proper path and strays to the perinaium or thigh. A retained testis may continue to lie within the cavity of the abdomen ; it may be arrested at the internal abdominal ring ; it may remain in the inguinal canal, or may project just beyond the external abdominal ring, with- out properly entering the scrotum. The testicle is often very movable, and may be slipped upwards completely inside the abdomen and downwards to the lower end of the canal. When the testis is completely retained, no other symptom exists except the absence of the organ from its normal position ; but when it occupies the inguinal canal it is often the seat of pain, due no doubt to the compression to which it is exposed. It may also, as has been stated at p. 867, become com- plicated with, or be mistaken for, a hernia, and may present many diagnostic difficulties.