CARCINOMA OF THE ANUS. 961 5 after periods varying from one to three years ; 1 died in a year without recurrence. In 12 no recurrence had occurred :—3 under one year, 1 after eighteen months, 1 after two years, 1 after three years, 2 after four years, 1 after five years, 2 after six years, and 1 after twelve years. Cancer of the rectum is not uncommonly met with too high up, as Yolk- mann says, to be reached from below by the operation above described, and too low to be reached by laparotomy. For these cases, Kraske, of Freiburg, devised the operation which goes by his name. The patient is placed on his right side, and an incision is made in the middle line from the second sacral spine to the anus, which need not be divided. The gluteus maximus on the left side is then separated with an elevator as far as the edge of the sacrum, and the coccyx is excised. The great and small sacro-sciatic hgaments are next in the same way separated from the sacrum, and the left side of the wound forcibly drawn outwards with a strong spatula. If more room is required, a portion of the lateral mass of the sacrum may be cut away with a chisel. If the bone is cut in a line commencing on the left edge at the level of the third posterior sacral foramen, and running in a curved direction inwards and downwards past the third foramen and through the fourth to the left cornu of the sacrum, no important nerves or other parts need be wounded. The anterior division of the third sacral nerve is protected, and the sacral canal is not opened. The 'gut now comes so fully into view that it can be removed as high as its junction : with the sigmoid flexure. The lower part of the bowel may be preserved, if it is healthy. In this operation the peritoneum will probably be opened in most cases. Should this happen, the opening must be plugged with a sponge or some antiseptic wool until the operation is completed. The edges of the wound in the peritoneum should then be accurately brought together with silk sutures, after which, if the anal portion of the gut has been left, the upper part may be brought down and sutured to it anteriorly, the posterior part being left open for drainage. Complete suture of the upper end to the lower has seldom succeeded. Bardenheuer has operated in a somewhat different way in similar cases of I high disease. A median incision is made from the posterior border of the i anus to the middle of the sacrum, and the soft parts are reflected from the back of the bone. The sacro-sciatic ligaments are cut through and the sacrum divided transversely at the level of the third sacral foramen. The hand can now readily be introduced into the pelvis, and the subsequent. steps of the operation are essentially the same as in Kraske's method. The upper part of the rectum is drawn down and sutured to the anal portion, or if this is im- ii possible, it is sutured into the wound. Ball, of Dublin, has employed this method with success in four cases. Of the cases in which Konig operated by Kraske's method the mortality was 12 per cent. I Intussusception of the Rectum as a consequence of a malignant growth [fis a very rare condition. In two cases of this kind under the care of Barker : in University College Hospital the tumour projected from the anus with each action of the bowels and bled freely. Digital examination showed that the reflexion of the rectal wall was situated about three inches from the anus. A double row of stitches was passed through the entering and reflected layers, and the apex of the intussusceptum including the tumour was cut away. Both patients made a rapid recovery. Carcinoma of the Anus.—The anus is rarely affected by extension of VOL. II. 3 Q L