424 DISEASE OF THE IIJJ'-JOINT. not prove its preseuce, as limitation of mobility may be due to causes outside the joint. Tlic Prognosis in cases of tuberculous disease of the hip must be regarded from two points of view—1, as concerns the Life of the Patient ; and 2, as concerns the Utility of the Limb. 1. Life.—Disease of the hip-joint, and of the contiguous osseous structures, is dangerous to life in proportion to the abundance and the long continuance of the suppuration ; and this is dependent partly on the patient's constitution, but chiefly on the extent of the osseous disease. In the synovial form, suppu- ration is often prevented by rest and appropriate treatment ; and when this is the case, the patient will usually recover. If suppuration take place in cases of this kind, recovery need not be despaired of; but convalescence will be greatly protracted. In such cases much will depend on the patient's constitu- tion. If that be highly scrofulous or if there be tuberculous disease elsewhere, the prognosis becomes correspondingly bad. When the bones that enter into the composition of the hip are the primary seat of disease, the case assumes a much graver aspect, but even then under proper treatment, there is a good prospect of cure. In those cases in which the disease is primarily femoral, and dependent upon tubercle in the head of the thigh-bone, the prognosis is not so favourable, but in a considerable proportion spontaneous cure may take place under proper treatment even without operative interference. The condition of the jj^^vic hones is one that more materially than any one other circumstance influences the prognosis in cases of hip disease. When the acetabulum is perforated intrapelvic abscess will probably form, and unless the diseased osseous structures be excised, a fatal result may be anticipated. If the acetabulum be merely superficially carious, the condition need not seriously aSect the prognosis. In these cases the displacement of the head of the bone is the first step towards the cure of the disease in the acetabulum. The surface of the cavity, which is roughened, and deprived of its cartilage, speedily becomes covered by granulations, which become developed into fibrous tissue, and in a short time the whole cavity becomes filled with dense fibroid growth. When the disease extends to the osseous structures around the acetabulum, such as the rami of the ischium and pubes, the tuberosity of the ischium and the upper lip of the acetabulum, and even the dorsum of the ilium, it usually partakes more of the nature of necrosis than of caries. In extensive pelvic disease such as this, natural means are quite unable to elfect a cure, and the patient must die of hectic or intercurrent disease, unless recourse be had to excision of the head of the thigh-bone and the whole of the necrosed and carious osseous structures. The report of the " Committee of the Clinical Society appointed to inquire into the value of excision as a means of treating disease of the hip-joint in childhood," contains the most accurate information we possess concerning the death-rate of hip disease, in the statistics furnished by Ploward Marsh of the cases treated by him in the Alexandra Hospital for Hip Disease in Childhood, between 1867 and 187!). The total number of cases amounted to 401. These may be divided first into 277, or 09 per cent., in which suppuration took place, and 124, or 31 per cent., in which no abscess formed. The following table shows the results. Those classed as " verified cures " were examined by the