54 DISEASES OF VEINS. * of the ferment by disintegration of the white corpuscles plays an important part in the process of coajijulation. The thrombus thus formed was in some cases pure white in colour, but more commonly a few i-ed corpuscles were entangled amongst the white. The more rapidly the plugging of tlie vessel took place the more red corpuscles were entangled in the thromhus. When coagulation takes place in a vessel in which the flow is completely arrested, the clot differs in no respect from that formed in blood drawn i'rom the body. It entangles in its meshes all the corpuscles, both red and white, and presents the familiar dark red colour. These observations explain the different appearances of the thrombus under the different circumstances in which thrombosis takes place. The clot formed above an injury which completely obstructs a vein, as when it is divided or tied, is uniform in structure, dark red in colour, and at first but loosely adherent to the inner coat of the vessel. At a later period, as in the case of a ligatured artery, it becomes denser in consistence from contraction, and more firmly adherent, and loses its colour in consequence of disintegration of the red corpuscles. A thrombus formed by gradual deposit from the circu- lating blood upon the unhealthy walls of a vein is either white or mixed in tint, according to the rapidity with which it is formed. It is firmly adherent to the inner coat of the vein and laminated in structure. Microscopic examination shows it to contain few red disks, but numerous white corpuscles which have escaped disintegration are usually found between the laminae. As a rule the thrombi arising in cases in which an altered condition of the blood is supposed to be the cause of coagulation are white or mixed, the fibrin being deposited gradually on the walls of the vein, starting from some point where from disease or injury the endothelium is damaged. When a vein is completely obliterated by a white thrombus, the stagnant blood on each side coagulates, forming a red clot adherent to the white. After death a further extension of this red clot takes place. ThQ^Q post-mortem \\ clots are recognised by their softness and by their floating free in the vessel. Cornil and Eanvier have supposed that in many cases at least the central || portion of a laminated clot, and not its peripheral layers, is the oldest, the fibrin having been first deposited on the wall of the vein and then separated from it by contraction, though prevented from passing on towards the heart by the prolongations extending into the collateral branches. This view, how- ever, seems far from probable. The only appearance suggesting such a process is met with in the clots extending from the heart into the pulmonary artery in cases of cardiac thrombosis. These are commonly found to fill the vessel incompletely, and often present perfect casts of the pulmonary valves. In these cases, however, the coagulation takes place immediately before death, and very probably the contraction \b post-mortem. The Fate of the Thrombtis varies according to the circumstances iii which it is placed and the causes of its formation. Thrombi arising fi-om iniury undergo the same changes as those forming in arteries under similar circumstances (Vol. I., p. 415). The restoration of the channel through a vein when the continuity of its walls has not been interrupted, takes place more readily than in similar conditions in the arteries. It is possible that ni some cases this may result from disintegration of the c ot, the t/.Z^m being- carried away and lodged in the lungs, where, if non-infective in character. It would cause no serious symptoms. The normal process of restoration.