337 ACUTE ARTHRITIS: VARIETIES. then runs the ordinary course of acute .arthritis. It is sometimes possible to arrest the progress of tlie inflammation before tlie destructive changes set in, by early opening, free drainage and antiseptic treatment, but even then consider- able thickening and contraction of the capsule usually result, leaving the joint more or less fixed. If the joint be opened without sufficient drainage and without antiseptic treatment, decomposition of the pus in the cavity takes place, and the ordinary results of septic arthritis follow. The exact process by which the joint becomes infected, and what it is that determines the particular joint or joints which are attacked, is not certainly known. The pus contained in the articulation in all forms of infective arthritis is very irritating and contains micrococci in large numbers. (See also Pyemia, Vol. I., p. 979.) After scarlet fever it is not uncommon for the patient to suffer from slight swelling and pain in the joints resembling rheumatism. This " scarlatinal rheumatism " subsides without suppuration, and is probably distinct from the pygemic affection just described. Acute arthritis may also occur as a com- plication of gonorrhoea, but this is rare. The milder forms of inflammation of the joints, included under the term " gonorrhoeal rheumatism," will be described in the Cliapter on Gonorrhoea. When the affection assumes a destructive form it is probably due to pyemic infection. Acute Arthritis from Exposure to Cold. Acute Bihenmatic Arthritis.— This is a somewhat rare affection. After exposure to cold, especially from sleeping in the open air after being heated by violent exertion, the patient is seized suddenly with acute febrile symptoms, sometimes preceded by a rigor. At the same time swelling, with intense pain, commences in one joint, most Pig. 54o.-interior of Knee disorganized commonly the knee. The symptoms at by Acute Pytemic inflammation. first so closely resemble an attack of acute rheumatism that these cases in hospital practice are commonly first admitted into the medical wards and subsequently transferred to the surgical. The distinction from acute rheumatism is made by observing the following points : the skin is hot and dry, the profuse sweating of rheumatic fever being absent; the affection remains hmited to the single joint attacked, and the local symptoms are more severe than in ordinary rheumatism. The' ligaments are early implicated, and there is little recognizable effusion into the joint; the pain is most agonizing and is of the character already described as occuiTing in acute arthritis. Pus may form in the joint in a few days from the commencement of the attack, but under proper treatment, the symptoms usually subside gradually, and the patient slowly recovers, after weeks or months, with the joint always stiffened, and usually firmly ankylosed, some- times even by bone. The exact cause of the disease is not certain ; from Its sudden invasion, and its arising from exposure to cold, it has been VOL. II. z