ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF ARTERIES. 85 CHAPTER XLII. DISEASES OF ARTERIES. Arteries are liable to numerous diseases which derive great importance from the effects they produce, both upon the vessels themselves and upon the parts to which they carry blood. Amongst the most important are the various forms of inflammation or arteritis. The inflammatory aflPections of arteries are divided first into two classes, viz., those resulting from injury, and those arising from general or local causes not of a traumatic nature. Inflammation of the arteries is divided also into endarteritis, in which it affects primarily or chiefly the internal coat, and peri-arteritis, in which the process commences in the outer coat or sheath. The term " mes-arteritis " has also been suggested for inflammation of the middle coat, but it is of little use. as no true inflam- matory affection commences in that part of the vessel. Some forms of arteritis are named from the cause of the disease, as syphilitic or embolic. As in other structures, the inflammatory process may be acute or chronic. In addition to the above diseases, arteries suffer from various degenerative changes, some of which are primary, affecting the original tissues of the vessels, others are secondary, the degeneration taking place chiefly in the products of a chronic inflammatory process. These various processes are still further comphcated by secondary efiects, such as the formation of aneurism, from the diseased walls of the artery yielding before the pressure of the blood, and thrombosis of the affected vessel followed by its obliteration, and some- times by embolism and gangrene. In discussing the diseases of arteries, it will be most convenient to consider first the various forms of inflammation ; secondly, the degenerations ; and lastly, the more remote efiects of these changes. ACUTE INFLAMMATION OF ARTERIES. Acute Arteritis of idiopathic origin, that is to say, arising as an indepen- dent affection for which no evident cause can be found, was formerly believed to be a comparatively common disease. It was supposed to affect the inner coat, spreading along the vessel in the direction of the circulation, and from this fact it was spoken of as diflfase or erysipelatous. It is now known, how- ever, that no such affection really exists, and that the error arose partly from assuming that thrombosis is invariably evidence of previous inflammation of the afi'ected vessel, and partly from mistaking for the redness of inflammation the staming of the intima, so often observed as the result of changes in the blood with disintegration of the red corpuscles, which may occur during life in acute forms of blood-poisoning such as septic£emia or malignant fevers or after death as the result of putrefaction. ' Traumatic Arteritis.—Simple acute traumatic inflammation limited to