1 ABSCJ'JSS OF THE BRAIN. S^S in which disinteo-ration has occurred ; in the event of lia^morrhage it eadt be airUed with antiseptic gauze plugs This treatment of the ?nns ?s necessarily attended with considerable risk ot the entry of_ septic i into the veii on the cardiac side ; a danger which may be dimin.^^^^^ r the nreliminary ligature of the internal jugular vein in the neck, as jJested brHo^ This has been done in a considerable number of cases wTb i2ot Lanef ^ K"shton Parker, and others. The vein should Lxpo n ^ n ck before the lateral sinus is opened, and divided between iTatur s care being taken that this is done below any part of the vesse I ct"^^^^^^^ treatment has been adopted successfully in several cases, even after the development of secondary foci m the lungs '"tettil^Meningitis due to middle ear disease is often associated with other comphcations, and as a rule must be regarded as necessarily fatal ihe .Hnltoms are identical with those of the form which sometimes complicates fmcture of the skull (Yol. I., p. 771). The Treatment will as a rule be con- fined to that of the mastoid or extradural suppuration to which the meningitis is directly due. In a case under the care of Barker, in Umversity College Hospital, an abscess, apparently resulting from a localized meningitis m the .Sylvian fissure, was successfully treated by drainage. The patient, who was deeply comatose and partially hemiplegic at the time of the operation, made a complete recovery. It is certainly open to question, however, m this case ' whether the primary seat of the suppuration-was not in the substance ot the temporal lobe. . , Abscess of the Brain is a complication occasionally met with, apparently as a consequence of septic phlebitis. It is most commonly seated in the temporal lobe, but, especially when the mastoid is implicated, it may form m the cere- bellum. The relative frequency of abscess below the tentorium is said to be greater in adults than in children. When the temporal lobe is aflFected_ the abscess will usually be found, according to Barker, between two vertical lines, one through the tragus and another two inches further back ; cerebellar abscess is usually found in the anterior part of the lateral lobe. The Symptoms of abscess of the brain are often obscured by the other conditions, such as extradural suppuration and meningitis, with which it may be associated. In an uncomplicated case the signs are the same as those of abscess following injuries of the head (Vol. I., p. 775). The most marked are headache, vomiting, slow cerebration, gradually increasing insensibility, and optic neuritis. A very slow pulse and a temperature often below normal are very characteristic symptom^s. The symptoms as a rule come on slowly and insidiously, but their onset may be marked by a severe rigor. Unless relieved by treatment, abscess of the brain is necessarily fatal, the patient either gradually becoming comatose or dying somewhat suddenly as if from apoplexy, apparently from bursting of the abscess into the ventricles. The Diagnosis of Abscess of the Brain is often rendered difficult by its association with other intracranial complications such as septic thrombosis and meningitis. The diagnosis can be made with comparative certainty when a slow pulse and low temperature are present together. Optic neuritis cannot be taken as proof of the existence of abscess, nor does its absence exclude abscess if the other characteristic symptoms are present. It may occur in cases of meningitis and of phlebitis of the lateral sinus, and has indeed been met