375 EXCISION OF JOINTS: MODE OF REPAIR. j is of more importance than strength, and we consequently aim at obtammg I firm fibrous ankylosis, allowing of some mobility at the wrist, and a false joint at the elbow. In fibrous ankylosis, the opposed bony surfaces are united to each other by dense fibrous tissue. In a false joint the ends of the bones become rounded and covered by a layer of fibroid tissue almost resembling cartilage in density and smoothness, and are united by a capsule of fibrous tissue resembling normal ligaments in structure. The inner surface of this . capsule is smooth and imperfectly covered by flattened cells, and thus some- what resembles a synovial membrane, but the cavity is moistened with serous fluid such as is found in false bursas and not true synovia. The muscles which were connected with the articular ends that have been removed form new attachments to the bones either directly or by means of the fibrous capsule of the false joint. The question as to the arrest of the development of the bone, and conse- quently of the whole Hmb on which an operation of excision has been performed, is one of great practical moment. It is well known to physiologists that the longitudinal growth of a bone is carried on chiefly through the medium of the layer of cartilage by which the epiphysis is attached to the shaft, and which does not become ossified until the bone has attained its full length. It has further been pointed out by Humphry that the two epiphyses of the long bones of the limbs do not take an equal share in this development, that which unites last taking the greater part. Thus the upper epiphysis in the humerus and tibia, the lower epiphysis in the radius and femur, are the more important in this respect. If, therefore, in an excision practised on a growing child, the whole of the epiphysis be removed, the subsequent growth of the bone will be arrested proportionately to the share that the epiphysis which is removed takes in the development of the bone. And if that epiphysis on which the length of the bone is chiefly' dependent be removed,—as> for instance, the upper epiphysis of the tibia and humerus, or the lower epiphysis of the thigh-bone—the development of the limb will be very considerably interfered with. In the adult, after ossification is completed, the epiphysis loses its importance as an organ of growth ; and may be removed, if necessary, without interfering with the subsequent length of the limb, except to the extent of its removal. The Instruments required for resection are strong scalpels and bistouries, straight and sharp-pointed, in addition to which I have found a strong probe- pointed bistoury with a limited cutting edge, of great utility in clearing the P Fig. 547.—Butcher's 8aw.