TORSION OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. 1231 t In rare instances the testis misses the scrotum and passes into the perineum, Ivhere it usually lies close to the anus. The explanation of this malposition is Jprobably to be found in the fact that a prolongation of the fibres of the guber- jnaculum can usually be found passing to the perineenm. Still more rarely the itestis has been known to escape by the crural canal on to the thigh. i There is a very important question connected with malposition of the testis, jviz Is the organ when undescended prolific? Ourhng and others were of i opinion that it" is not, but more recent observations tend to show that the iorgan is at first functionally active, but that it "ages prematurely." In Lome cases of double cryptorchism spermatozoa have been found in the ;] seminal fluid, whilst in other cases they have been absent ; and it would appear that this depends largely upon the age of the patient, and whether or not the testicle has been the seat of attacks of inflammation. The compression to which a testicle is exposed in the inguinal canal is harmful to its functional activity ; the organ is often smaller than normal, and is liable gradually to undergo degenerative changes. In the present state of our knowledge of this subject, it may be concluded that a man Avith both testicles retained is by no means necessarily sterile, but that he is likely to become so at a comparatively early age. Not only is a testicle retained in the inguinal canal especially liable to inflammation from shght injuries, but should gonorrhceal epididymitis occur, the symptoms are intensified by the compression of the surrounding tense i structures. There is also a liability to severe acute symptoms due to torsion of the cord, and it is probable that a retained testicle is more prone to malignant disease than an organ ia its natural position. Inflammation of the Testis in the Inguinal Canal may sometimes take place, even in adults, when the organ has not descended through the external ring, giving rise to a train of somewhat puzzling symptoms, wdiich closely resemble those of strangulated hernia ; with which, however, it must be .borne in mind that it may be associated (p. 867). On examination, a large irregular tumour, in some parts hard, in others soft, very tender, and occasioning a sickening sensation when pressed upon, will be found in the situation of the inguinal canal. There is usually a tendency to vomiting, with some constipation, and colicky pains in the abdomen. On examining the scrotum it will be found that the testis on the affected side is absent ; and on passing the finger into the external ring, the organ can be felt to be lodged in the canal. In consequence of the proximity of the peritoneum to the inflamed testis, this membrane occasionally becomes involved in the morbid process ; and, as the result of the constriction of the tendinous and aponeurotic tissues in the situation, sloughing has occasionally occurred. Either of these conditions may lead to a fatal termination. Torsion of the Spermatic Cord was first described by Nicoladoni in 188;"), and since the publication of cases in this country by Whipple and Bryant the condition has received considerable attention, and must be regarded as one of great practical importance. The accident is especially liable to occur when the testicle is imperfectly descended and freely movable. There is frequently a definite history of some exciting cause, such as a jump or muscular effort, which is rapidly followed by severe pain, often accompanied l)y vomiting. Almost immediately a tumour makes its appearance in the groin, and thus the close resemblance of the symptoms to those of a strangu-