1046 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. I In the after-treatment, if the bladder has been closed by sutures, especially in children, the patient may be allowed, if he can, to pass water naturally. If, however, this be long delayed so that distension of the bladder is to be feared, a catheter must be passed. If a drainage-tube has been inserted into the bladder from the wound, the urine will escape readily from it, and should be received in a large sponge or in moss pads. The patient may lie on one side to facilitate drainage. The tube may be removed after three or four days. Other means of drainage have been adopted. Thus a soft rubber catheter may be tied into the urethra, and a long tube applied to it to maintain drainage ; but this is apt to cause urethritis, and is perfectly useless if the bladder ^YOund is freely opened. Perinseal incisions have been made, but these are always not only needless but injurious. The best mode of treatment is not yet certainly determined ; but probably the wisest course is only to suture the bladder in well-selected and favourable cases, and then to leave the external wound partly open in case of failure. In all other cases drain from the wound with a good-sized rubber tube retained for three or four days. Various modifications have been suggested of the method of performing suprapubic cystotomy above described, whether the operation be undertaken for the removal of a calculus or for other purposes. Trendelenburg recom- mends that the patient, instead of lying on a flat table, should be so placed that the pelvis is well raised. This position is secured by raising the lower part of the operating table, which is hinged at the middle, whilst the patient's bent knees are held over the shoulders of an assistant who stands on a stool at the foot of the table. This position, which obviously presents several disadvantages, has not found much favour in this country. Among the advantages claimed for it are, that the intestines fall away from the hypo- gastric region, and that thus the danger of wounding the peritoneum is lessened ; and secondly, that it allows a more thorough examination of the parts about the trigone—a point chiefly of importance when the bladder is opened in cases of ulceration or new growth. Trendelenburg has also advocated the use of a transverse incision instead ot the longitudinal one usually employed, chiefly with the objects of more certainly avoiding the peritoneum and obtaining a better view of the interior of the bladder. The incision is made close above the pubes, and divides the recti muscles; the bladder also is opened transversely. Any advantages which this method may present are probably more than counterbalanced by the increased severity of the operation and the slower healing of the wound. The special dangers and difficulties of the operation are very tew. Haemorrhage from veins superficial to the bladder is best avoided by securing them in forcipressure forceps before they are divided. Wound of the peritoneum iB the most serious accident that can happen, and if it occurs before tne bladder is opened the operation should be abandoned and repeated at a subse- quent time if possible. It is avoided by the proper distension of the bladder and if necessary of the rectum, by making the opening downwards towards the pubes, and by seeing the muscular fibres of the bladder f^^'lf before he incision is made. Rupture of the bladder or rectum by too forcible injection is not likely to happen if the operation is performed as ^.^^^'^ described //■ the calculus he encysM-^uA the suprapubic operation should always d adopted if such a condition is suspected or known to exist-the Surgeon must