ACCIDENTS DURING LITIIOTRITY. 1089 evacuafcors, however, moderate enlargement of the prostate can scarcely be termed an inconvenience. When the prostate is enlarged, the stone, it small or the fragments after the first crushing, fall into a pouch behind the neck of the bladder, and it is then impossible to seize them except by revei-sino- the blades in the manner already described (p. 1085). When the stone is^seized the blades must be carefully turned into the ordinary position before it is crushed. In such cases Buckston Browne has found the intro- duction of the rectal bag (p. 1044) useful as a means of preventing the frao-ments fallino' into the pocket behind the prostate. In cases of extreme enlargement lithotrity may be impossible, as the nthotrite may not be able to enter the bladder, or if it can be introduced its blades may be too short to reach the stone in the pouch behind the middle lobe. In such cases suprapubic lithotomy is the preferable operation. Stricture of the Urethra, if it can be dilated to a size sufficient to admit the necessary instruments, is not a serious complication m lithotomy at a sino-le sitting. In former times it was considered an almost insuperable obstacle to the operation from the obstruction it offered to the expulsion of the fragments. Sacculation of the Bladder is a most serious complication, the existence of which we have unfortunately no means of determining before the operation. The fragments are yery apt to fall into the sacculi, from which they are with difficulty dislodged by the evacuator. If they are left they may cause recurrence of the stone in the bladder, or give rise to encysted sacculi. If septic cystitis follows, it is possible that a fragment lodged in a sacculus might lead to ulceration and perforation. Accidents during Lithotrity can hardly arise except from carelessness or the use of improper force. The large instruments can scarcely make false passages, unless used with great violence ; yet I have known of a case in which the beak of the instrument was driven through the urethra into the space between the bladder and the pubes by too early and forcible depression of the handle. Nipping the coats of the bladder is almost impossible with the instruments now in use. Bending or breaking of the lithotrite can scarcely occur if the instrument has been properly tested before being used. Jamming of the instrument by a hard fragment becoming wedged in the angle between the male and female blades where they join the shaft is practically impossible with the modern instruments. If it should happen, the bladder may be opened in the perinseum using the lithotrite as a staff, and the blades brought out and freed, or they may be exposed by suprapubic cystotomy, and cleared or cut off with a file according to circumstances. Accidents after the Operation.—Haemorrhage is a rare occurrence. Should the bladder become filled with clots they may easily be removed by reintroducing the evacuating catheter and sucking them out with the evacuator, or by the introduction of a large sized gum-elastic catheter, to which an aspirator may be applied. Impaction of Angular Fragments of Stone in the Urethra.—This most dangerous and painful accident was not uncommon in the old system of lithotrity. In modern lithotrity it can happen only if a large fragment has been accidentally left behind or if from any cause the operation has to be left incomplete. If there is any reason to believe that fragments are left in the bladder the patient must be kept in a recumbent position, as impaction VOL. II. 4 A