676 PLASTIC SURGERY OF TEE PALATE. the mucous surfaces are in contact. 'Yo prevent this it may be necessary to draw them down with a sharp hook wliile tlie sutures are being tightened The hasmorrhage during the operation is usually rather free, but may l;e arrested by a few minutes' pressure on the bleeding point with a piece of dry sponge. Fergusson suggested a modification of the operation, in whicii un incision was made on each side of the fissure, and the bone divided longitudinally with a chisel, the two edges being then forced into contact. Although in his own hands some satisfactory results were obtained by this method, further ex- perience has led to the abandonment of this operation as being in no way superior to that already described, and being somewhat liable to be followed by necrosis of the divided bone. When the cleft is wide, and, as usually happens, the septum nasi is adherent to one edge, T. Smith recommends that the incision instead of being made at the junction of the nasal and palatal mucous membranes should be carried some distance up the septum, from which the mucous membrane can be detached with a sharply curved raspatory. Davies-Colley has devised a flap method which he recommends as being useful when the operation for cleft of the hard palate is undertaken in infants, and also if the ordinary method has failed, or if the cleft is too wide to allow its employment. In the first stage a long flap of the muco-periosteum is raised from the wider side of the palate or that to which the septum nasi is attached. The anterior extremity of the flap reaches forwards nearly to the incisor teeth ; the outer border runs backwards close to the alveolus, and the inner border an eighth of an inch from the margin of the cleft to a point just behind the posterior border of the hard palate. The flap is turned backwards with a knife or raspatory. Secondly, an incision is made on the other side of the palate parallel to and at least a sixth of an inch external to the cleft. In front this incision is turned into the cleft at its anterior extremity and behind at the edge of the hard palate. With a raspatory this narrow flap of muco- periosteum is raised as far as the edge of the cleft. Thirdly, the flap last mentioned is turned inwards and its edge fixed by two catgut sutures to the narrow strip of mucous membrane which remains on the other side of the cleft. Lastly, the apex of the long triangular flap is drawn across the cleft and the anterior part of its inner margin is attached with two or three silver sutures to the outer edge of the raw surface on the opposite side of the palate. The soft palate is repaired subsequently. Some modifications of the operation as above described have been introduced by Davies-Colley, but the principle remains the same, viz., to close the cleft by carrying a flap of muco-periosteum across it from one side to the other. After-Treatment.—After the operation the patient must be put to bed, and every care taken to avoid any movement of the palate. He should be restricted to fluid but nourishing food for a few days, and should be directed to swallow this with as little effort as possible, and indeed should not be allowed anything solid until complete union has taken place. Speaking must be strictly forbidden until union is complete. The stUclies should not he taken out for at least three iveelcs or a month. If there is any tension tliey will probably cut their way out; if there is none, being of silver wire, they excite no irritation, and, moreover, they serve the important purpose of supporting the scar in the middle line while the lateral wounds are healing. It is a good