POLYPUS OF THE EAB. 585 ear (Fio-. %U 0). This will avoid the lateral sinus completely. The bor.e is exposed by an incision carried backwards from the mastoid process along the superior curved line of the occipital bone for about two mches ine periosteum and soft parts are then stripped off with an elevator till tne inferior curved line is exposed, immediately below which the opening may De made. The bone here is excessively thin, and can easily be broken througH with a gouge. . In a case of cerebellar abscess successfully treated by Dean the trephine was apphed at a point an iuch and a quarter behind the external auditory meatus and a quarter of an inch above the base line. Through this opening the lateral sinus was first examined. By enlarging the opening upwards and forwards the temporal lobe was explored, and no pus being found the opening was next Fig. 004.—Diagram showing positions for Ai)i)licati(in of Trepliine in Temporal Ab3cess.(L)) and Cerebellar Abscess (C). A B, Reicl's base line. enlarged downwards and backwards and pus found in the cerebellum by incising the dura mater below the sinus. The same method was successfully employed in a case recorded by Winter and Deanesley. These operations have on the whole been very successful, the most remark- able series being that recorded by Macewen. Of 9 cases of abscess in the temporal lobe operated on by that Surgeon, 8 recovered, the only fatal case being the one above mentioned, whilst 4 cases of cerebellar abscess submitted to operation were ail successful. Pyaemia as a result of middle ear disease needs no special description. It is especially apt to occur in cases of septic phlebitis of the lateral sinus (p. 582) but is sometimes met with independently of that condition. Polypus.—Polypi of the ear, in the great majority of cases, spring from the tympanum, and project through an opening in the membrane in cases of chronic suppuration in the tympanum. They are rarely met with springing from the external meatus. They are usually firm and fleshy-looking, though sometimes soft and gelatinous, and composed simply of granulation tissue, sometimes pedunculated, but at others situated on a broad base. They may be a source of danger by blocking the meatus and preventing the escape of discharges. Tlie treatment should consist in removing the polypus with a wire snare or small sharp spoon. Before doing this it is