4 E 2 CARCINOMA OF THE PROSTATE. uSS ,0 any existing urethral discharge. If symptoms of cystitis supervene injec- dous of'iodoform should be used and in some instances cystotomy may be necessary. xV tuberculous abscess in the prostate may requn-e to be opened m the perineum, scraped and di-ained. CABCINOMA OF THE PROSTATE. Carcinoma does not commonly attack the prostate, but I have naet with ^everal instances of the disease. The form met with is usually the hard ■ laudular carcinoma ; one case of colloid has been recorded by Stanley Boyd i have seen the disease in a man about seventy years old; he died with secondary growths in the lymphatic glands and liver. The Symptoms in the early stages are obscure pam and irritability about the neck of the bladder, with the occasional passage of blood. As the disease may occur in patients who are already suffering from the effects of simple enlargement of the prostate, the early symptoms may closely resemble those occasioned by a stone in the post-prostatic pouch or an attack of subacute prostatitis. Digital examination by the rectum will probably detect a hard, ill-defined mass, occupying the situation of the prostate, nodular on the surface, and often peculiarly fixed. It is slightly tender on pressure. The rapid increase in size, with obstruction to the passage of urine, and frequent hsematuria and increasing pain, will reveal the true nature of the disease. ' The vague character of the symptoms of carcinoma of the prostate as com- pared with those of a primary growth in the bladder may be explained by the different nature of the two tumours. Carcinoma of the bladder is of the squamous variety and, as a rule, rapidly ulcerates, whereas the deeply-seated glandular carcinoma of the prostate may reach a considerable size before ulceration occurs. The Treatment is palliative. Morphia suppositories may relieve the pain, and if the symptoms be extreme, drainage of the bladder may be required. Although excision of the prostate for carcinoma has been performed by Billroth and others, the operation can hardly be regarded as a procedure of recognized usefulness. If