782 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. distinct in the neigbbourliood of the areola. The discharge continued, and was a source of considerable annoyance. On pressing the cysts their contents were easily squeezed out through tbe nipple. Tbe condition remained un- changed for about two years, in spite of belladonna and other external remedies. She then married and became pregnant. As the breasts enlarged, the abnormal discharge gradually ceased, and after her confinement she was able to nurse her child without difficulty. The remarkable persistence of the disease was well illustrated by a case in University College Hospital. The left breast was excised for cystic disease by Marshall in 1877, and the right breast for a similar condition in 1882. In 1889 a small mass of cysts was excised by Beck from the neighbourhood of the scar in the left mammary region, and microscopic examination showed that these had arisen in a fragment of breast tissue which had escaped removal twelve years previously. Hsemorrhage may take place into the cavity of a cyst, especially if this contains a vascular intracystic papilloma. This may be the result of an injury. The term " blood-cyst of the breast," has,indeed, no pathological meaning, for blood-cysts may arise from haemorrhage into the substance of a soft sarcoma, and they are also found in certain forms of carcinoma. Cysts arisinCx independently of the glandular tissue comprise two forms, the serous and the hydatid. 1. Serous Cysts of the Breast.—These are believed to be formed, as elsewhere, by dilatation of the lymph-spaces of the areolar tissue, the wall of the cyst being formed of the surrounding connective tissue pressed together and subsequently thickened by new growth. The evidence of this mode of orowth is not by any means perfect, but it seems the only possible explanation of their structure. Their walls are composed of delicate areolar tissue, Imed internally with flattened endothelial cells like those of a lymphatic vessel. The contents arc usually clear yellowish serous fluid, but may sometimes be brownish or turbid, from the admixture of blood, and in some cases cholesterme is present. These cysts are usually single, sometimes they are loculated, and in other cases multiple. They are usually about the size of a filbert when firs noticed, and may remain small for a great length of time, but m other cases they graduallv increase until they may contain several ounces ot fluid. Ibey then become very tense, so much so, in fact, that fluctuation is no longei Dresent The true serous cyst is almost invariably seated in the s"bmaminai v Sar tissue, or at one mLgin of the breast, very rarely m the glandular '''unTcular cysts of the breast occasionally attain an immense size at the same time that^their walls remain thin and supple. In these cases the sUn may become thinned and translucent, constitutmg the condition which has been termed/iy/<?me/eo//Ae&rmsr. m snme rare The simple serous cysts never develop intracystic growths. In some lar cases calcification of the cyst-wall has been observed .> The true Hydatid Cyst is extremely rare but ^^^J ^^J^i n this ma The simple serous cyst was described by Astley Coopci unae 2 mamma name The Diagnosis of a cyst of the breast may usually be effected by ft** the globulafelastic tumour under the skin ; ''"^'^^ifZ^'^^^^Z^.^i and not adherent to any of the adjacent structu.es. Cysts bein.