C44 DISEASES OF THE LOWER JAW. occasioually met with in the upper jaw, are infinitely more common i,. tl.e owci. These tumours are of slow growth, but may reach great dimensions • thev are composed of cysts varying in size, and having more or less solid matter between them. The walls of the cysts are sometimes thin and membranous sometimes composed of tissue appearing to the naked eye as fibrous tissue' while in other cases bony lamellas enter largely into their composition, m that on pressure they occasionally communicate the semi-crepitant sensation peculiar to cystic expansions of osseous structures. The fluid contained in the cysts is viscid, and usually semi-transparent, yellowish or bloody. Most commonly these tumours run a simple course, but occasionally they have been known to recur after removal and infect surrounding parts. The origin of these cysts formed the subject of a most interesting lecture delivered by ^. hvQ at the Royal College of Surgeons. He confirmed the fact already noted by several observers that the solid part of these tumours is composed of irregular, branching columns of small round epithehal cells resemhlina those in the deeper layers of the epithelium of the gum, and surrounded by a fibrous stroma. In some cases the cells at the circumference are columnar. The cysts are formed by colloid degeneration of the epithelial cells (Fig. 698). Eve behoves that he has demonstrated that the columns of cells are formed by an ingrowth of the epithehum of the gum, and that the starting point of the disease is often the irritation caused by a diseased tooth. Falkson and Bryk on the other hand believe that in some cases at least these cysts have their origin in a persistence of a portion of the epithelium forming the enamel organ of the developing teeth. They base their opinion upon the resemblance of the epithelium cehs and the contents of the smaller spaces to those observed in the enamel organ. That this disease is in reality malignant is shown by several cases recorded by Heath. In one of these after operation several recurrences took place in the jaw, and finally a tumour developed in the pelvis, which was shown by Eve to contain " tortuous closely-crowded columns of small epithelial cells." In speaking of the treatment of multilocular cystic disease. Heath says: *' I should in future be guided by the age of the patient, and the amount of solid material found in the cysts. In young persons with cysts having fluid-