NyEVUS OF THE SCALF. 75 inserted fchrongli a fold of the sound skin, about a quarter of an inch from oue end of the tumour, and transversely to its axis. It is then carried through, until a double tail, at least six inches in length, is left hanging from the point at which it entered ; it is next carried across the base of the tumour, entering and passing out beyond its lateral limits, so as to leave a series of double loops about nine inches in length on each side (Fig. 430). Every one of these loops should be made about three-quarters of an inch apart, including that space of the tumour ; and the last loop should be brought out through a fold of healthy integument beyond the tumour. In this way we ha ve a series of double loops, one 'white, and the other hlacJr, on each side (Fig. 430). All the <r7«Y6 loops should now-be cut on one side, and the Made loops on the other, leaving hanging ends of thread of corresponding colours. The tumour may now be strangulated by drawing down and knotting firmly each pair of ivhite threads on one side, and each pair of hlach ones on the other. In this way the tumour is divided into segments, each of which is strangulated by a fig. 430.—Diagram of Ligature of Flat and Elongated Nrevus. noose and a knot, by Hack nooses and ivMle knots on one side, by ivhite nooses and Uacli: knots on the other (Fig. 431). In some situations in which it is very desirable to save the skin, the nsevus may sometimes be cured by subcutaneous ligature. This is done by passing a curved naBvus needle armed with a strong silk ligature as far as possible round the growth, immediately beneath the skin ; on the eye emerging, the thread is secured and the needle withdrawn. The needle is then passed unarmed so as to include the other half of the tumour ; as soon as its eye appears it is threaded with the end of the ligature and drawn back. The ligature is then tightened, and the nasvus thus strangulated subcutaneously. If preferred, the operation can be done with a common suture needle, which can be withdrawn and re- inserted where necessary without being re-threaded. The silk ligature separates by suppuration after a week or ten days. Attempts have been made to apply subcutaneous ligatures of carbolized silk or catgut, and then to push the knot in at the needle-puncture, leaving the thread to be absorbed. This method has not, however, been very successful, as either the ligature excited suppuration and was finally expelled, or after its absorption a return of the growth took place. NiEvi IN Special Situations.—Nsevi of the Scalp are more frequent