TREATMENT OF aONORRH(EA. Antal and Hurry Fcnwick have found that distension of the penile urethra by the iniection of air facilitates endoscopic examination. A special moain lion of Leiter's instrument has been constructed for this purpose. Z Treatment of Gonorrhoea must be conducted with reference to the sta'e of the dtea^e, but especially with regard to the acuteness of the mflam- " adopt what has been termed the ....... treatment, du ng the earLt stages of gonorrhc^a ; indeed, dnrmg the ^nM^. period This method consists dther in the injection of a very strong ^ohition 0 the nitrate of silver into the urethra, or in the application to the inflamed mucous mem"^^^ strong ointmen't of that salt by means of a bougie smeared S i - other Surgeons, again, have recommended the admmistration of very large d^ses of copaiba at this period. These various plans have, however deservedly fallen into disrepute. I have on several occasions seen most intense inflammation produced by this mode of treatment, and never, in any case, any aood result. Independently of this, it is impossible to know whether the case, in the earliest stage, will prove to be one of simple urethritis or a specific gonorrhoea. „. „ ,, In the acuiB inflammatory stage, attended by heat, swelling of the organ, o-reat ardor urinse, and abundant muco-purulent discharge, the activity of the treatment must be proportioned to the intensity of the mflamniation. it this be severe, warm hip-baths, poppy fomentations, or the envelopment of the penis in warm water-dressing, will be of essential service. At the same time the urine must be diluted, and its acidity lessened, by the patient drinking large quantities of alkaline diluents—barley-water or Imseed-tea containing carbonate of potassium in solution ; and the bowels may be kept m action by the administration of saline aperients. Twenty to thirty grams of carbonate of potassium or a drachm of citrate of potassium with twenty or thirty minims of tincture of hyoscyamus in an ounce of camphor water should be given every four or six hours. All alcoholic stimulants, spices, salt food, and coffee must be avoided, the diet being restricted to light slops, and perfect rest enjoined. By such means as these, the activity of the inflammation will be gradually lessened, the discharge becoming thinner, the smarting in mictu- rition less severe, and the erections less painful. The patient should also be desired to pass his urine frequently, so as to wash the urethra clean. During the acute inflammatory stage the application of local remedies to the urethra has, as a general rule, been found harmful, but since the nature of the virus has been recognized, the use of germicide injections and bougies has been tried with some degree of success. Watson Cheyne recommends the use of iodoform and eucalyptus bougies. These are composed of iodoform, 5 gr. ; oil of eucalyptus, 10 in ; oil of theobroma, 35 gr. This is sufficient to make one bougie 4 inches long. It is thus used : the patient first passes water to clean the urethra; he then dips the bougie in carbolic oil (1 in 20) and passes it quickly into the urethra before it becomes softened by the heat of his fingers. It must be pushed in with a pencil, or some convenient instrument, till it completely disappears. An absorbent pad of iodoform or salicylic wool is then placed over the end of the penis, and covered with oiled- silk or gutta-percha tissue secured by a strip of plaster. The patient then refrains from making water as long as possible. One bougie may be used daily for two or three days, and in the interval some simple injection, such as