1 HERNIA. and bilious, consisting of the contents of the stomach. The speedy restoration ot the intestinal action, by the treatment already indicated as proper in the^ cases, will remove any doubt as to the nature of the afi^ction. 2. Inflamed Irreducible Hernia.—This is accompanied by great tender ucss and paiu m the tumour, with pyrexia, and some general peritonitis and there is no vomiting ; or, if the patient have vomited once or twice, he'doeR not contmue to do so with the same degree of violence, or in the same .quantity, as he would if it were the result of strangulation. Again the obstruction i8 not complete, but flatus and liquid faices will usually pass. 3. General Peritonitis conjoined with Hernia.—Here the diagnosis IS often extremely difficult, especialiy if the hernia be an iiTeducible one! In these cases, however, it may be observed that the peritonitis is most intense at a distance from the sac ; that there is little or no vomiting, or, if there be, that it is not stercoraceous ; and that the constipation is not complete, flatus or even faces occasionally passing. 4. In Double Hernia, one tumour may be strangulated and the other not, though irreducible. In these circumstances, it may at flrst be a little difficult to determine which one is the seat of constriction. This, however, may be ascertained by observing greater tension and tenderness about the neck of the strangulated than of the unconstricted hernia. 5. The co-existence of Early Pregnancy, or a threatened Miscarriage, may obscure the diagnosis, the Surgeon possibly being in doubt whether the vomiting is dependent on the state of the uterus or on the strangulation of the hernia. Here, however, the character of the vomiting, the absence of complete obstruction, and the general condition of the patient will serve to exclude strangulation. Besides these various conditions of hernia, which may be confounded with strangulation, there are other tumours which may be mistaken for this disease ; but these we shall have to consider when speaking of the special forms of hernia. In connexion with the diagnosis it may be pointed out that the absence of the general symptoms above described, does not prove that the contents of a hernial sac are not strangulated. It has already been stated that the symptoms may be obscure in cases of partial enterocele and of strangulated omental hernia, and the same is true when the hernial sac contains only such structures as the vermiform appendix, the ovary, or the Fallopian tube. Treatment.—The treatment of strangulated hernia is one of the most important subjects in surgery. The object to be accomplished is the removal of the constriction from the strangulated hernial tumour. This is eff'ected either by the Reduction of its Contents by Taxis ; or by the Division of the Stricture or Herniotomy. Taxis.—By taxis is meant the various manual procedures employed in order to reduce the hernia. When properly employed in suitable cases it is seldom attended with any serious consequences. I have never myself seen it followed by death ; and out of 293 cases of hernia reported by Luke, as having been reduced by taxis in the London Hospital, none died. It must not, however, be concluded that taxis is to be regarded as a mode of treatment to be lightly undertaken, and its routine adoption in all cases cannot be followed by other than disastrous results. In the Reports of University College Hospital one fatal case is recorded in which death from ulceration and