STRICTURE OF THE (ESOPHAGUS. 717 from damafre inflicted on that tube. I examined the oesophagus carefully, but failed to discover the existence of any foreign body. I thought that the oesophagus had been injured in some way, and that probably epithelioma was ileveloping. One day, while at dinner, the patient suddenly vomited a large (|uantity of blood, and fell down dead. On examination, we found that the piece of gutta-percha was imbedded in the wall of the oesophagus, and that the ulceration of the mucous membrane caused by its presence had opened some vessel—which, we could not ascertain (it was not, however, either the carotid artery or the jugular vein)—thus giving rise to the sudden hsemorrhage which had caused the patient's death. The surface of the gutta-percha which looked into the oesophagus, being constantly covered over by mucus, and being protected, as it were, by a rim of swollen mucous membrane, had allowed the liougie to pass easily without its presence being detected. 1). Paralysis of the Muscles of Deglutition occurs occasionally as a sequel of diphtheria, and in the rare affection of the medulla known as labio-giosso-pharyngeal paralysis, but this is hardly to be confounded with obstruction of the oesophagus. In the Diagnosis of stricture of the oesophagus it is necessary to bear these conditions in mind, and if possible to exclude them before proceeding to examination of the gullet by means of a bougie. Hysterical or Spasmodic Stricture is met with chiefly in females under itwenty-five, though it may occur in older persons of the hysterical tempera- ment. It is possible for it to occur without any evident organic disease, but I believe that simple uncomplicated hysterical stricture is very rare. In ihe majority of instances it will be found to be dependent upon some simple condition, such as chronic inflammation of the pharyngeal mucous membrane, or follicular inflammation about the epiglottis and posterior part of the larynx. The disease in many cases is supposed to have been occasioned by the swallowing of a foreign body, which after many mouths is still thought to be impacted. This is almost always erroneous. The foreign body may have been swallowed, and may have been the starting-point of the slight inflamma- tion or ulceration that occasions the dysphagia, but it has long since dis- 1; appeared, leaving merely a series of troublesome consequences in its train. The obstruction is generally high up in the pharynx, rather than in the oesophagus ; being produced by the contraction of the constrictor muscles. The dysphagia is intermittent ; when the patient's m^ind is allowed to dwell long on the affection, and she becomes anxious about it, then the difficulty is greatly increased ; whilst at other times, when her thoughts are diverted from it, food passes easily. It will be found also, in these cases, that on attempting to pass a large bougie, its progress will at first be resisted, but, by gently pressing upon the stricture, the instrument will soon pass easily. Organic Stricture, as before stated, may be fibrous or cancerous. Fibrous Stricture is in the great majority of cases due to the contraction of a scar resulting from injury or from the swallowing of corrosive fluids. It is said in very rare cases to be a consequence of chronic catarrh, or of syphilitic or tuberculous ulceration. At the cardiac orifice it may be due to the con- traction caused by the healing of a chronic ulcer of the stomach. Cancerous Stricture is more common than fibrous. The nature of the growth has already been described (p. 714). Organic stricture, whether fibrous or cancerous, is characterised by a