1I20 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. some other supposed cause. A long foreskin, especially with accumulation of smegma beneath it, or a phimosis, may give rise to considerable frequency of micturition and pain in a young boy. If neither stone nor phimosis be present the urine should be examined, and possibly a deposit of uric acid may be found, which is not uncommon in young children who are overfed or exposed to an impure atmosphere in a crowded city. If much mucus be present, or even pils, it may be due to chronic cystitis. This affection appears to be analogous to the strumous inflammations of the mucous membranes of the eyes, nose, and throat, that commonly occur in scrofulous children. In this condition the child passes water with great frequency and with much pain ; the urine is offensive, and usually phosphatic ; much uneasiness ig complained of about the groins and along the penis ; in fact, many of the ordinary symptoms of stone are present. On sounding the bladder, it will be found roughened, fasciculated, and often containing sabulous matters mixed with mucus. Occasionally, though rarely, tuberculous disease of the urinar? tract is met with in children. It presents the same appearances as in the adult. Irritable bladder in children is very frequently due to thread-worms in the rectum, which should always be sought for in all doubtful cases. More rarely it may arise from the presence of a rectal polypus. The Treatment consists in removal of the cause w-hen this is possible. In the strumous affection of the mucous membrane, if the urine be foul, the bladder must if possible be cleaned out as in the adulfc, should the child be old enough for this to be done. The bladder may also be washed out from time to time with a weak solution of nitrate of silver. Beyond this the treat- ment consists in attention to the general improvement of the health, in the removal of intestinal irritation, in the regulation of the digestive functions, and in the administration of copaiba in small doses, either alone or conjoined with a few minims of liquor potassse. Irritability of the Bladder in Women often simulates stone so closely that it is only after very careful sounding that the Surgeon is satisfied that uo calculus exists. This condition may arise from a variety of causes, similar to those described at p. 1117, as occasioning irritability of the male bladder. There are some conditions, however, in which it occurs, that are peculiar to women : 1. It may be a truly neurotic or hysterical afiPection, 2. It is most commonly the result of enlargement of the body of the uterus from whatever cause, and is thus very frequent in early pregnancy. 3. Inflammatory affec- tions in the pelvis, such as pelvic peritonitis, frequently occasion painful and frequent micturition. 4. It is often sympathetic ; being connected with some local disease of the genito-urinary organs, such as a vascular caruncle of the urethra, which will require to be cured before the bladder can be brought into a healthy state. 5. Tumours of various kinds occupying the cavity of the pelvis may occasion irritability of the bladder by the traction exerted upon it. 6. Prolapse of the anterior wall of the vagina, drawing doAvn the correspond- ing portion of the bladder, may occasion the condition, especially if the vesical pouch contains stagnant phosphatic urine. It may be relieved by the use of a pessary, or by a plastic operation. 7. In strumous girls it may be due to a congested and irritated state of the vesical mucous membrane, similar to that which is met with in boys (see above). It is commonly associated with a muco-purulent discharge from the vagina. In cases such as these, the patient requires to be put upon a general tonic treatment, and the bladder should be