1254 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. of the gland in bulk, spots of softening may be felt. The gland itself mav seem sott and natural, or a nodule or two may be felt in its substance. The affection is not as a rule complicated by hydrocele7and in tirerrlier staV the scrotum is unaffected. The spermatic cord will usually present \ general thickening, but the vas deferens is enlarged. Instead of feeling lik a piece of whipcord between the fingers it may be as large as a quill if th disease have extended to the vesicuke seminales, these can be felt per rectw. to be enlarged and hardened. There is liUle or no pain, and on squeezing th gland the ordinary sensation will be perceived by the patient except in a ve advanced stage of the disease. As the disease advances, one of the crag nodules softens, aad the skin becomes adherent over it. This process is accoui panied by more acute inflammation, usually causing marked increase of par and tenderness. The adherent skin becomes red and shining, and finally giv way, and the tuberculous abscess discharges, leaving an unhealthy cavit yielding thin pus mixed with soft, shreddy, whitish-yellow sloughs. In som favourable cases the cavity may granulate and close completely, or leave merel a fistulous opening discharging small quantities of serous fluid. In most cases however, the process of softening extends, other nodules break down, and a; great part of the testicle may be destroyed. If an abscess should form in the body of the gland, a hernia or fungus testis may follow, as in simple chronic orchitis. Occasionally exuberant granulations may sprout out from the region of the epididymis, closely resembling the true fungus testis. The general health suffers greatly, and in a large proportion of cases tuberculous disease of the lungs makes its appearance. Most commonly the opposite testicle also becomes affected. Death usually results from the disease of the lungs, but may occur from acute general tuberculosis with tuberculous meningitis. Occasionally the disease may extend to the urinary tract, and terminate fatally from tuberculous disease of the kidneys. In other cases the disease of the testis may occur after that of the kidney and prostate, forming merely a par of general genito-urinary tuberculosis. In some cases of phthisis, in which the testicles enlarge, and yet give bub little trouble, the whole organ, both body and epididymis, may be found con- verted into a uniform soft cheesy mass. A specimen of two such testicles, from a patient who died from disease of the lungs, is in the museum of University College. In cases of acute general tuberculosis, grey granulations have been found in the testicles. Structure.—On making a section from before backwards through a typical specimen of tuberculous disease of the testicle, the following conditions will be found. The tunica vaginalis may be perfectly healthy, or may be here and there adherent to the tunica albuginea. The tunica albuginea will be normal in appearance, except in the immediate neighbourhood of the tuberculous growth, where it will be thickened. That part of the body of the gland nearest the surface may be perfectly healthy in appearance ; there is no thickening of the septa, and the tubules can be teased out under water as in a healthy testicle. As we approach the mediastinum, the gland becomes studded with small hard nodules, not growing in the septa, but in the glandular substance of the testis. In their earliest stage these are merely hard semi-transparent granulations; but they soon show signs of undergoing fatty degeneration in the centre, so that the majority have the appearance of small bodies about the size of a millet-seed, having a yellow opaque centre, and a delicate greyish semi-trans-