645 TUMOURS OF LOWER JAW. contents and little growth in the bone, I should be still inclined to adopt palliative measures and to gouge very freely, carefully watching the case with a view to a more radical proceeding, should further development take place. In c;ises of much solid deposit in connexion with multilocular cysts, and still more in cases of solid tumour with one or more large cysts, there should, I think, be no doubt as to removal of one-half or more of the lower jaw, or of any portion of the upper jaw involved." Fibromata and Chondromata are met with in the lower jaw, and spring either from the periosteum or from the centre of the bone. They resemble similar growths elsewhere, and present nothing peculiar. Osteomata of both forms, the cancellous and ivory exostosis, are met with in the lower jaw ; it is in fact one of the most common seats of the latter affection. Odontoma.—This is not properly a tumour of the jaw, but it is most con- veniently mentioned here, as closely simulating disease of the bone. An odontoma is the result of some peculiar modification in the growth of a tooth, resulting in the formation of an irregular mass of dentinal tissues of no definite shape. Bland Sutton, who has carefully studied the structure of odontomata, recognizes three varieties—radicular, composite, and anomalous. A radicular odontoma develops from the root of the tooth after the formation of the crown is complete, and hence it contains no enamel in its composition. Outgrowths from the fangs of fully developed teeth composed of dentine and cement are not uncommon, forming the so-called " warty teeth ; " but these are seldom of sufficient size to be of any surgical interest. A composite odontoma bears no resemblance to a tooth, but consists of a "disordered conglomeration of enamel, dentine, and cementum." According to Heath only eleven cases have been recorded, all of which, with one excep- tion, were in the lower jaw. Half a large composite odontoma is preserved in the Museum of University College. It was removed by Heath from the lower jaw of a lady aged eighteen. Its cut surface has the appearance of marble, and it consists of several dental tissues mixed up together. Tomes has described one removed by Fergusson as being " composed of enamel, dentine, and bone derived from calcification of remnants of the dentine pulp, thrown together without any definite arrangement." The anomalous examples of odontoma, three specimens of which are described by Bland Sutton, need not be referred to here. Sarcomata of various kinds form a considerable proportion of tumours of the lower ja^7. Myeloid, spindle-celled, and round-celled sarcomata are all met with. The first is always central, the two last may be periosteal or central. Chondrifying or ossifying sarcomata are occasionally met with. The myeloid tumour usually runs a simple course ; the other forms are frequently malignant. The mode of growth of these tumours and the symptoms they give rise to are the same as in other parts. Squamous Carcinoma has already been considered with diseases of the gums (p. 624). Diagnosis.—In the lower, as in the upper jaw, it is of great importance to diagnose the simple from the malignant affections ; as in the latter form of disease an operation is sometimes not advisable, the soft tissues around the bone being implicated to such an extent as not to admit of the complete extirpation of the disease. The malignant tumours may generally be readily detected by the rapidity of their growth, by their pulpy or elastic character