94 DISEASES OF ARTERIES. a chronic course, and may cause spontaneous franf,n-ene of the parts supplied by the affected vessel. The symptoms will perhaps best he illustrated by quoting a typical case recorded by Pearce Gould. The patient was a brick-maker aged 19. In May, 1883, the fingers of his right hand became congested and sometimes dead white, with much sickening pain. After a few weeks' rest he improved, but soon relapsed on returning to work. After some months tlic pam extended into the forearm, and completely incapacitated him from working. He came under Gould's observation in October, 1888. At that time the right forearm and hand were cold and somewhat wasted, and he suffered much pain, especially at night. The brachial artery was harder than natural, and pulsated more feebly than on the opposite side. The radial could be felt as a solid cord. Thei-e was dry gangrene of the tips of three fingers. No constitutional affection was found to account for the condition. Two weeks afterwards the pain increased till it became agonizing, requiring hypodermic injections of morphia for its relief. At this time there was slight elevation of temperature. The brachial artery then became converted into a pulseless cord to within one inch of the teres major. Soon after, the sulj- claviau artery was found to be prominent. In December the pain gradually subsided, and one month after the man was apparently well. The brachial artery remained a solid cord, and the first joint of the thumb and that of the index finger separated after becoming mummified (see Trans. Clin. Soc. 1884). This patient was exhibited again in October, 1886. He had worked as a labourer till the previous April, when he was attacked with numbness of the right arm and severe headache which had persisted ever since. In June he suddenly lost power in the left arm, and became unconscious the same evening. From this attack he slowly recovered. In October the right axillary and subclavian could be felt as a hard pulseless cord, and there was no pulse in any of the vessels of the limb, which was cold and shghtly wasted. There was no pulsa- tion in the right temporal, but the carotid seemed to be healthy. A somewhat similar case occurring in a female, aged 35, M'as recorded by W. B. Hadden in 1884. In a later case recorded by Gould, a man, aged 43, was attacked with acute mania after influenza. Eleven days after the onset of the maniacal symptoms the patient complained of pain extending from the right knee to the foot, and two days later the foot became cold and blue. Gangrene rapidly followed and the same series of changes occurred in the left limb, so that on the tenth day after the first complaint of pain was made, both feet were gangrenous to above the malleoli. The gangrene was dry at the tips of the toes, but in other parts the dead tissues remained soft. Pulsation was felt in the left popliteal artery, but on the right side the vessel was " a hard pulseless cord." Amputation was successfully performed through both knee-joints (see Vol. I., p. 815). In both the amputated limbs there was "a wide-spread endarteritis and endophlebitis aflPecting both large and smaU vessels." The intima of the affected vessels was irregularly thickened by an overgrowth of fibroid tissue and a round-celled infiltration. This case was remarkable in the symmetrical character of the gangrene and in its rapid onset. The pathology and causes of this rare affection are still uncertain. It commonly occurs about middle life, Gould's first case being the youngest recorded. The disease described by Von Winiwarter under the name of en- darteritis proliferans is probably of the same nature. He states that it occurs i