534 DEFORMITIES OF THE ARM AND JIANJ). introducing the tenotome to the inner side of the tendon, slipping,' it under, and cutting upwards and outwards ; the artery being guarded and"pushed to the inner side hy the pressure of the left forefinger. 3. The forearm may be forcibly pronated and flexed as the result of chronic inflammation of the radio-humeral articulation. Here forcible supination and extension, under chloroform, is the best remedy. 4. The forearm may be l)ent on the arm in consequence of the contraction of the cicatrix of a burn along the inside of the limb. In this case the plastic operation described in Vol. I., p. 401, must be practised. Ankylosis of the Arm in the Straight Position is a condition of very Fig. 631.—Contraction of Supinators of Forearm and Extensors of the Hand. serious inconvenience, the limb being almost useless for all ordinary purposes of life. In cases of this kind, the treatment to be adopted must depend upon whether the ankylosis be fibrous or osseous. If it be fibrous, however firm, the forearm may always readily be brought into a rectangular position by flexion under chloroform, and the mobility of the joint may then be improved or restored by passive motion, friction, and douches. If it be osseous, a wedge of bone must be removed, and the case treated as an ordinary instance of excision of the elbow, with a view of establishing a false joint. Acquired Contraction of the Muscles of the Forearm implicating Fig. 032.—Contraction of Flexors and Pronators of the Hand. the^ Hand is occasionally met with in adults. I have seen it in two opposite conditions : that of forcible extension (Fig. G31), and that of forcible flexion and pronation (Fig. 632), In both instances it appeared to have been the result of excessive use of certain muscles ; in the first case in wringing out clothes, in the other in cutting with very heavy shears. In the case of flexion and pronation, it was interesting to observe that, when the fingers were extended, the wrist became flexed, and when the wrist was extended the fingers became bent in. In these cases change of occupation, friction, and galvanism, with the use of a straight splint, were advantageously resorted to, a cure being eventually effected.