409 DliSEASE OF THE IJIF-JOINT. attention being given to any pits on the articular surfaces which may contain soft carious bone or sequestra. In some cases the track leading to the joint will be found to pass over the iliac crest or through the great sciatic notch. Under these circumstances the seat of disease can best be reached, and any iutrapelvic collection of pus drained, by trephining the ilium over the position of the joint, as has been practised by Golding-Bird, Mayo Collier, Makins, and others. In Golding-Bird's case a psoas abscess connected with the front of the joint was drained and the patient made a good recovery. In Makins's case " a three-quarter inch trephine was applied one and a half inches before and below the posterior superior spine ; " the joint was scraped and the resulting sinus slowly healed. In some cases the Surgeon may completely close the wound, but if the disease is extensive he will be wise to insert a drainage tube. Every care must be taken to prevent decomposition, for the fatal result, which was at one time almost inevitable in these cases, often ensued from hectic and albumeuoid disease due to an imperfectly drained and septic iutrapelvic abscess. DISEASE OF THE PELVIC BONES. This most commonly occurs in association with disease of the hip-joint or more rarely of the sacro-iliac articulation, and is considered with those alfec- tions. It occasionally happens, however, that necrosis of some part of the pelvis may result from acute suppuration beneath the periosteum, or from the breaking down of a subperiosteal gumma, whilst tuberculous caries sometimes occurs independently of joint disease. Necrosis is especially apt to occur in the crest of the ilium or in the ischial tuberosity. The sequestra may be extremely slow in separation, and excision of considerable portions of the pelvis has been successfully practised in such cases. Caries of the ilium may lead to complete perforation and the formation of an abscess on both surfaces of the bone. Under these circumstances the abscess on the dorsum ilii should be freely opened, and by scraping away the soft carious bone efficient drainage may be established for the abscess within. DISEASE OP THE HIP-JOINT. No subject in the whole range of practical Surgery has received more careful attention than that of the various diseases of the hip-joint. This is readily understood when we consider the many variations presented by the different affections ; the great difficulty which is often encountered in making an accurate diagnosis ; the serious danger to the utility of the limb, if not to the life of the patient; and the many important questions which arise in connexion with the treatment of diseases of the hip-joint. It is, however, very necessary that the Surgeon should bear in mind that the affections of this joint are pathologically the same as those of other articulations, and that the same principles must guide him in their treatment. The terms " Hip Disease " and " Morbus Coxae," used in their broadest sense, have no pathological significance, whilst any painful affection of the hip-jomt may justly be called " Coxalgia." It has, however, become cus- tomary to apply these terms more or less exclusively to the chronic diseases of the joint which are tuberculous in nature. To avoid confusion it is desirable