IIOI IMPACTION OF CALCULUS IN THE URETHRA. I Impaction of a Calculus in the Urethra of an Adult may be suspected .V the difficulty that is occasioned in micturition, and ascertained by the possi- Mlity of feeling the stone through the walls of the canal, or of detecting it \- introducing a sound into the urethra. ' Treatment.—In the adult, urethral calculi may be removed by extraction, ithotrity, or incision. When situated towards the anterior part of the canal, , urethral calculus may frequently be extracted by working it forwards between lie finger and thumb, the patient being under chloroform. Should this plan lot succeed, it may be removed with a long and very narrow-bladed pair of ^ irceps; occasionally, when it has reached the navicular fossa, it will not pass hrough the meatus unless this be enlarged with a probe-pointed bistoury. If he calculus cannot be extracted in this way, it should, if possible, be pushed .ack into the bladder and removed by lithotrity. If, however, it be firmly ixed, an incision must be made down upon it, through the urethra, by which t may be removed. It is a good rule not to make :liis incision in any part of the urethra anterior to the scrotum if it is possible to avoid it ; for, in •onsequence of .the coverings of the penile portion .f the urethra being very thin, the aperture will Mvobably not close, but a fistula will be left. \7hen the stone is situated in the scrotal portion bf the urethra, there would be some risk of abscess and of urinary infiltration if the incision were made through the lax tissues of the scrotum. ■'Hence if, as it sometimes happens, the stone may be pushed back to the bulb or membranous urethra, but not into the bladder without using a dangerous amount of force, it is better to cut ^down upon it, and extract it through the perineum by an incision in the mesial line. This operation may readily be done by passing a staff, grooved along its convexity, or an ordi- nary director, as far as the calculus, and making an incision upon the end of it, so as to lay open the urethra ; the staff is then removed, and the calculus extracted by means of a slender pair of forceps. A catheter should next be passed into the bladder, and retained there for a few days, in order to lessen the tendency to the formation of urinary fistula. It may happen that the calculus, impacted in the urethra, is only one of several ; others being lodged in the bladder. After removing the calculus from the urethra, the Surgeon should pass a sound into the bladder, so as to ascertain whether any other concretions exist in that organ ; and if so, they should at once be removed by the median operation of lithotomy, the incision in the membranous portion of the urethra being extended back- wards to the prostate. I once saw Listen extract two vesical calculi, after having removed one that had blocked up the urethra, by converting the perinseal incision into that of lateral lithotomy. Impaction of a Calculus in the Urethra of a Boy.—In boys the impaction of ft calculus in the urethra is almost the sole cause of retention of urine. When called, therefore, to a child suffering from this condition, we should always examine the urethra from the perinasum or rectum, and Fig. 895.—Extra-iircthral Calculus.