TVMOimS OF THE Vl'l'ER JAW. 631 sarcoma of various kiads is of freq.ent '^'^f'^^'l^V^I^Z-^^i^ 1 pus g nto the neighbouring cavities from an eariy penod. They-e Ivtrcn^Tly vasoular, so muoh so that in rare oases they pulsate dist.nctlj. W en thUprolc into the nose they form polypoid masses, bleedmg readily S obstru" g the fossae. If they spring from behind the rnaxrlla they no ' nfeq ently penetrate the cranial cavity, either from the orblt or by means f e fClmiL in the base of the skull. Myeloid sarcoma occurs m young ^dult life chiefly in the alveolar border of the bone. In other parts it is '"carclLma is far from uncommon. It may, as before stated, begin in the gum or palate, or it may originate in the mucous membrane Immg the ant,„m or nasal foBsas. It forms a soft rapidly-growmg tumour, inflltrating the surrounding parts. It very early spreads into the irregular cavt.es m the neighbourhood of the upper jaw, and thus is very apt to recnr after apparently complete removal. „ When the tumour begins in the gums or palate it has tne structure of a squamous carcinoma, which, from its tendency to spread into the antrum and deeper parts, has been termed " boring epithelioma." When the growth arises primarily in the antrum or nasal fossae it is a columnar or tubular epithelioma. . „ ., tt Situation and Symptoms of Tumours in the Region of the Upper Jaw.—Sarcomatous tumours occasionally spring from the surface of the malar bone, pushing forward the cheek, spreading into the mouth, and mvolvmg, with greater or less rapidity, the soft structures of the face and occasionally the lymphatic glands under the jaw. They are usually rapid m growth, soft and elastic to the feel, irregular in outline, and only secondarily implicate the superior maxilla and the neighbouring cavities. The various growths that are connected with, or spring from, the periosteum or mucous membrane of the antrum, gradually expand and dilate the cavity, thinning the bony walls, and giving rise to a considerable projection of one side of the face, the anterior surface of the, superior maxilla being the part that usually first yields to the outward pressure. The tumour thus formed is generally smooth, round, or oval, slightly lobed perhaps, more especially if fibrous, and has in many cases a tendency to hang downwards so as to overlap the lower jaw to a certain extent. As it grows, it encroaches more or less upon the structures lying in the vicinity of the antrum. Thus, it pushes down the palate, causing swelling in the roof of the mouth; and displaces the alveolar .processes and teeth, giving rise to irregularity in their outline, and tending to project into and occupy the alveoli. It may obstruct the lachrymal duct, occasioning epiphora, or encroach upon the orbit, causing impairment of Tision, and displacement of the eye-ball. As the tumour enlarges, it obstructs the nasal cavity, and, extending back into the pharynx, interferes with respiration and deglutition, and sometimes occasions severe epistaxis. When it is of a malignant character, obstruction of the nasal fossa will be found to be one of its earliest signs, leading to the suspicion of nasal polypus ; but the true and more serious nature of the disease will be revealed by the