MSAL REFLEX NEUROSES. 589 the offensive discharge. This can be done efficiently by means of the nasal douchey This consists of an india-rubber tube about three feet long, to one end of which is fixed a nipple-hke nozzle, and to the other a metal tube bent into the shape of a siphon. It is thus used : The tube is first filled with water and the siphon end hung over the edge of a jug or tumbler containing the fluid to be injected into the nose. The patient then holds his head over a basin, and breathes through the mouth, which must be kept open. The nipple end of the tube is now placed in the nostril, and the vessel holding the fluid to be injected is raised about two feet above the patient's head. As the patient is breathing through the open mouth, the soft palate is curved back- wards against the posterior wall of the pharynx, and shuts off the nasal part of that cavity ; the fluid, therefore, passes out at the opposite nostril, thus washing out both nasal cavities and the part of the pharynx above the soft palate. The fluid used should contain some antiseptic, as Condy's fluid, chloride of zinc (gr. j to 3 j), a concentrated solution of boric acid, or sulphate of zinc (gr. ij to 3 j). MtQV the nose has been thoroughly cleaned, a deodorizing solution may be blown into it by a nasal apparatus, which should be fitted with nozzles adapted both for the posterior and the anterior nares. In using the former the nozzle must be passed up behind the soft palate. G. V. Poore recommends the following powder to be taken as snuff: Biborate of sodium, nitrate of bismuth, aa 5] ; disulphate of quinine, gr. x ; iodoform, gr. v.— The snuff may be used two or three times a day, care being taken to wash it out thoroughly each day with the nasal douche. Simple Ozaena.—A very foetid discharge from the nose will occasionally occur in dehcate or strumous children while cutting their teeth, and may continue for several years. It may arise also after one of the acute specific fevers, especially scarlatina or measles. Sometimes it occurs at a later period chiefly in women. The mucous membrane is swollen and red, but the disease is not necessarily attended with ulceration, although this may take place if the foul discharge is allowed to accumulate. In all cases of obstruction of one nostril with offensive discharge in children the presence of a foreio-n bodv should be suspected. The Treatment consists in the use of the nasaf douche or spray, after which some astringent application may be applied Glycerine of tannm wiU often be found of great use. It may be appHed by means of a camels-hair pencil through the nostrils, and in most cases it is necessary also to pass a long brush on a bent stem from the mouth behind the soft palate so as to reach the upper part of the pharynx and the posterior nares. In youno- children the teeth and stomach must be attended to. Chronic Thickening of the Schneiderian Membrane or Hypertro phic Catarrh.-The mucous membrane of the nose is not unfrequently chronically inflamed, especially in strumous children ; that portion of the membrane covering the turbinate bones becoming thick, soft, and vascular and projecting like a broad fringe from their surface. It i^ usuaTof a tjright red colour, and covered with muco-pus without offensive odour This svvelhng at all times produces snuffling and a peculiar intonation o^ voice, but increases in wet weather, and then may become so ^reat as seriously to obstruct the breathing. Nasal Reflex Neuroses. - Chronic nasal catarrh with hynertronhio changes in the mucous membrane occasionally gives rise to various reflex neivous phenomena, amongst which may be asthma, spasmodic sneezing ami