6o6 disease;^ of the pa hot id gland. that on the opposite side usually hegins to swell niul runs the same eourse • but occasionally both glands swell simultaneously. Suppuration rarely, if ever, takes place, unless it be in the lymphatic glands of the neigbbourhooil As the parotid alfection subsides, but sometimes simultaneously with a inflammation of the testicle in the male, or of the ovary in the female, may take place. Inflammation of the breast and labia has also been descrilje*]. These so-called metastases are very rare in children. The orchitis is frequently followed by partial or complete atrophy of the testicle ; but fortunately, as the disease scarcely ever affects both sides, sterility rarclv results. Inflammation of the membranes of the brain has been said to have been met with as a complication of mumps. The Treaiment of this affection is simple, [f it be severe, the application of hot fomentations and the administration of salines, and, when the affection is on the decline, frictions with camphorated oil, will hasten its resolution. The orchitis must be treated with hot fomentations, belladonna and rest. Parotitis after injury or Disease of the Abdomen or Pelvis.— Inflammation of the parotid gland, frequently terminating in suppuration, has louff been known to be a not uncommon complication of injuries of the abdomen and pelvis, and has usually been regarded as pyasmic. Stephen Paget has, however, shown, by a careful analysis of 101 such cases, that this explana- tion is not altogether satisfactory. Of the 101 cases, 10 followed injuries or diseases of the urinary tract ; 18 injuries or diseases of the alimentary canal; 23 injuries or inflammation of the abdominal wall, peritoneum and pelvic cellular tissue ; and 50 injuries, diseases or operations on thS generative organs ; 27 of these being operations on the ovary. After a very prolonged search S. Paget succeeded in finding only 13 cases of secondary parotitis arising from operation or injuries of other parts of the body, and in all of these it merely formed a part of general pyemia. In the histories of the 101 cases the presence of septicsemia or pygemia is mentioned in only 15, and in 7 only of the fatal cases were secondary centres of suppuration found else- where. The inflammation of the parotid commences at very varying periods after the operation or injury of wdiich it formed a complication. In 78 cases in which the fact was definitely recorded suppuration occurred in 45, the remainder undergoing resolution. As a rule the parotitis was not accompanied by very severe fever, and rigors were very rare. Of the 101, 37 died, 13 from septicEemia or pytemia and the rest from various causes not directly connected with the parotitis. The treatment in mild cases consists in the external application of belladonna and hot fomentations. If suppuration threiteus, it should be anticipated by a free incision into the gland. The explanation of this curious association of parotitis with injuries of the abdomen and pelvis cannot be given in the present state of our knowledge. Tumours.—Tumours of the parotid gland itself are not so frequent as those situated upon it or in its vicinity. The tumours met with in this region may be simple or malignant. The simple tumours most frequently present a peculiar structure rarely met with in any other part of the body. They consist of mixed cartilage, fibrous tissue, myxomatous tissue, and glan- dular tissue, imperfectly resembling that of a racemose gland. When small they -u-e firm and somewhat elastic to the feel, smooth or slightly lobulated on the surface,'and freely movable on the parts beneath. As they increase ni size fluctuating areas become perceptible, often projecting above the rest ot tue