4^3 TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP. indeed, is the history of injury that traumatism was at one time looked upon as a most potent cause of chronic hip disease. At the present day, however, the simple traumatic inflammation is regarded rather as a local predisposing cause of the tuberculous disease. Pathology.—It is very rarely that the opportunity occurs of examining a hip-joint in the early stages of tuberculous disease. By the time the patient dies or where excision is performed, the hgaraents are swollen and softened, the synovial membrane is represented by a pulpy mass of granulation tissue, the cartilages have more or less completely disappeared, and the denuded osseous surfaces both of the acetabulum and femur are in a state of caries, so that it is impossible to determine with certainty the exact starting-point of the disease. The following appearances found in a child about eight years old, who died in University College Hospital of pneumonia, and whose body was carefully examined by "Wilson Fox, is a good example of the early conditions met with in tuberculous arthritis of the hip. The symptoms of hip disease had existed only about six weeks. The joint, which was removed entire, contained a considerable quantity of dirty yellow pus. The ligamentum teres was flattened and covered with spots of yellow lymph ; it was much softened, tearing with the greatest ease. The synovial membrane was generally greatly thickened, intensely injected, of colour varying from bright red to dull orange, and covered with spots of yellow lymph. The cartilage lining the acetabulum appeared to be healthy, except just around the insertion of the ligamentum teres, where it was softer and more gelatinous-looking than normal for about one to two lines. The cartilage covering the head of the femur appeared at first sight to be entirely un- affected. On making a vertical section through the acetabulum, and the head and neck of the femur, the great trochanter was found to be unossified, with the exception of a point in its centre, and its connexion to the bone was weak and easily torn asunder. The epiphysis of the head was almost completely ossified ; the line of junction being still, however, marked by a band of bluish and very hard cartilage, which extended for about three lines on each side across the bone. In the centre of this, extending both into the epiphysis and the diaphysis, was an eburnated portion of bone, yellow, hard, dense, and compact, these peculiarities being most marked in the portion belonging to the diaphysis. The cancellous spaces of this portion seemed to have been infiltrated with tubercle which had subsequently undergone calcification. In most parts this mass contrasted strongly in colour and in consistence with the reddened cancellous tissue. The articular cartilage, though generally ap- pearing healthy superficially, could now be seen to be a good deal wonn- t-aten on its deep surface, and indeed, destroyed at one or two points. Where the mass of hard bone came near the surface, the reflexion of the synovial juembrane w\as destroyed. Below this, in the neck and the upper part of the shaft, the cancellous tissue was very lax, the walls being very thin, and the medulla filling them extraordinarily red. The medulla at the commencement of the medullary canal, about one inch and a half below the trochanter, was exceedingly red and vascular. Occupying many spots of the cancellous tissue, and also one or two of the reddened medulla, were many little masses of the size of millet-seeds, looking like transparent cartilage, hard and resisting.