DISEASES OF JOINTS. 332 fibrous tissue or bone, according as the cartilages have been partially or com- pletely destroyed during the acute stage. More commonly as the disease progresses, suppuration takes place witl)in the joint, which becomes hot and red, with a good deal of throbbing pain ; the skin covering it is oedematous, and at last fluctuation is perceived where the coverings are thinned. In some cases the suppuration occurs with very great rapidity, and partial or complete luxation of the joint results. In other cases the synovial membrane and capsule of the joint give way without any looseness of ligaments or displacement of bones ; pus becomes infiltrated into the areolar tissue, and burrows widely in the limb. As the joint becomes loosened by the destruction of its ligaments, the bones become mobile, and grate against one another where the cartilage has been removed, thus giving rise to very severe suffering. The cartilages may, however, in some cases be extensively de- stroyed, and yet no grating take place ; this is owing either to the destruction being limited to the edge of the cartilage, the opposed surfaces being sound, or else to the interior of the articulation being filled up with granulation tissue. But though abscess, either within the joint or external to it, usually forms when the bones grate and the cartilage disintegrates, yet it occasionally happens that these conditions exist—the symptoms indicative of erosion of cartilage, such as painful startings of the limb, grating, and preternatural mobility of the joint, being present—and yet no abscess forms ; all the symptoms subsiding under proper treatment, and the joint recovering, though with a certain degree of ankylosis. But the reverse also may occur. Sup- puration may take place in a joint, the synovial membrane and the capsule may give way, and extensive filtration of pus into the deep areolar planes of the limb may occur, without laxity of ligament, preternatural mobility, or grating. This condition may occur in any joint ; I have most frequently met with it in the knee. There the upper and usually the outer part of the capsule generally gives way, and the pus diffuses itself deeply beneath the extensor muscles of the thigh, sometimes even between the periosteum and the bone. In these cases the thigh swells greatly, the limb becomes cedematous, and a deep and obscure sensation of fluctuation may perhaps be felt, moi-e especially towards the outer and lower part of the limb just above the knee. The swelling of the joint has perhaps subsided on the escape of the pus from the cavity, giving a false idea of security, which is confirmed by the absence of signs indicative of disorganization, such as lateral mobihty and grating. But on pressing the thigh downwards, the joint will be found to fill, the patella will float again, and there is an evident communication between the synovial cavity and the extensive diffused abscess in the thigh. In cases of this kind the pus will first come to the surface about two or three inches above and to the outer side of the joint; and on a free incision being made here immense quantities may be let out. In these cases fluctuation is often masked by the oedema of the limb, and by the thickness of the overlying mass of muscle, and will require the closest examination for its detection. After suppuration has taken place, the constitutional disturbance is severe, the patient suffers severe pain, and is worn out by want of rest. After the abscess is opened, unless special means are taken by drainage and antiseptics to prevent the accumulation of decomposing discharges in the articular cavity, septic poisoning or pyaemia is very likely to follow ; or hectic leading to death from exhaustion may occur, unless the diseased part be removed. In other and less