6l2 DISEASES OF THE NECK. sarcoma, may occur in the subcutaneous tissue and fascia of the neck as ekp where, but they present nothing special. The neck is the favourite seat of lymphadenoma, the tumours in this situation often reaching an enormous size so as to endanger life by their pressure. In the submaxillary region, tumours are occasionally met with similar in character to the parotid tumour already described. The submaxillary gland itself is rarely the seat of disease. Tumours in these situations may occasionally attain a considerable size and It l)eneatli the fascia, may extend deeply. In some cases when the integu- ments and superficial structures covering the growth are divided, it may be isolated with sufficient facility, its fixity being in a great measure due to its being bound down by the investing fascia rather than to its having contracted deep adhesions. Occasionally a slowly-growing tumour develops deeply in the anterior triangle of the neck, lying between the sterno-mastoid, the trachea and the pharynx, possibly even under the carotid sheath, with the artery pushed on one side, or even running over the anterior convexity of the growth. In some cases, the question of removal requires to be approached with the utmost caution. If the tumour be movable above the vessels, it may generally be taken out ; if it he below the sheath, even though not fixed to the spine, its extirpation is not practicable. Before determining upon the removal of a tumour situated in one of the triangles of the neck, it is indeed always very necessary that a diagnosis of its nature be made, and that some opinion be formed of the probable extent of its deep attachments. The first point to ascertain is Avhether it be simple or malignant. If simple, it will usually have been many years in growing ; it will be hard but not stony, lobulated or somewhat square-shaped; the patient's general health being good. It will generally be found to be movable, though not perhaps to any great extent, and will present no sign of incorporation with neighbour- ing structures. If it be superficial, the fibres of the platysma will not appear to spread over it, and the sterno-mastoid muscle may be traced to one side of or below it. In such circumstances, removal of the tumour may be under- taken with every prospect of success. But if the tumour be of stony hardness, have implicated the skin, and be immovable, the whole head being moved on any attempt at drawing it aside, if it be ill-defined under the jaw and ear, or rapidly growing, soft and pulpy to the feel, deeply-seated under the angle of the jaw, evidently below the platysma and deep fascia of the neck, and possibly beneath the sterno-mastoid, then no attempt at extirpation should be undertaken, as the mass could either not be removed with safety, or, if it were by any possibility extirpated, the already existing contamination of the neigh- bouring parts would certainly lead to a speedy recurrence of the disease. In removing suhmaxillary tumours, a free superficial incision nearly parallel to the margin of the lower jaw, but below this, will usually allow ready extirpation of the mass. In these operations the facial artery is generally sufficiently under cover of the bone to escape injury, but there may be, and usually is, free venous hsemorrhage. Haematoma of the Sterno-mastoid.—Under the name of " congenital tumour of the sterno-mastoid," a localized thickening and induration of the muscle has long been recognized. It is usually noticed soon after birth, and affects especially the lower and sternal part of the muscle, more commonly on the right side than the left. The lump in the child's neck is usually dis- covered accidentally, and as a rule, it disappears in the course of a few weeks