502 DISEASES OF BURS/E. CHAPTER LII. DISEASES OF BURSiE, SHEATHS OF TENDONS, AND MUSCLES. DISEASES OP BtTRS^. The bnrsse which naturally exist, either under the skin, beneath the muscles and ligaments, or around tendons, are subject to various diseases. These sacs are sometimes developed from continued friction in situations where they are not naturally met with : thus, for instance, bursse have been found at the projecting point of a hump-back, on the prominent parts of club-feet, or at the extremity of a stump. These abnormal bursas also may become diseased. Situations in which Bursse exist.—Bursas are either deep-seated or subcutaneous. The deep bursse are as a rule more perfectly developed, closely resembling true synovial sacs, and in many cases communicating with the cavity of a neighbouring articulation. The subcutaneous bursse, situated over prominent bony points, appear to be little more than enlarged areolar spaces, and are in most places acquired after birth as the result of friction. The fol- lowing are among the most important situations of the burste. On the front of the neck, according to Verneuil, there are three bursae, one in front of the pomum Adami ; one in the thyro-hyoid space, extending to the under surface of the hyoid bone, beneath the sterno-hyoid muscles ; and another above the hyoid bone between the genio-hyoid and genio-hyoglossus muscles of the opposite sides. Beneath the deltoid and the acromion process is a large bursa, often communicating with the shoulder-joint. In the neighbourhood of the elbow are a large subcutaneous bursa over the olecranon, and a small one between the biceps tendon and the bone immediately above the insertion of the muscle. In the neighbourhood of the hip are three bursae about the great trochanter : a large one between it and the gluteus maximus, and two smaller sacs between the smaller glutei and the bone. Another bursa of con- siderable size lies over the tuberosity of the ischium. In front of the joint is a bursa beneath the psoas and iliacus muscles, frequently communicating with the cavity of the articulation. In the neighbourhood of the knee there are three burste in front : two over the patella, and one beneath the ligamentum patellse, between it and the upper part of the tibia. The large bursa pateUa? lies beneath the deep fascia, but a smaller one is found over this between the fascia and the skin. Occasionally the upper part of the synovial pouch of the knee is shut oflF from the general cavity of the joint, and forms a separate bursa beneath the extensors. In the ham there is a large bursa between the semimembranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemnis which frequently communicates with the joint; a smaller bursa on the outer side, between the outer head of the gastrocnemius and the bone ; another between the biceps tendon and the external lateral ligament ; and others beneath the semimem- branosus, the popliteus, and the sartorius, gracilis and semitendinosus-