993 SUCOKDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORUANS. anj hypertrophy, we know either that the bladder has l^e.-u paralysed a o.Hc, or that the obstruction to the exit of urine was valvular iWur " that nicreased force applied to the contents of the bladder could^^Tlv s t ,1 valve more closely . and over-distension, with such an amount o? Lt h u.': of the neck as to render the valve incom,.otent, was the only meal by wh i unne could be passed without artificial aid. This last conditio^ s Vcul to prostatic disease, and some cases of tumour of the bladder. In 11 case , g-reat hyper rophy, the bundles of muscular fibres form ridges on th su L givmg nse to the condition known as In many cases n wht ; great pressure has frequently existed in the bladder, either fLm the fo ci contraction of its hypertrophied walls on the contained urine, or from mp e over-distension from retention arising from a valvular obstruction in tl prostate, the mucous membrane is pushed between the bundles of muscular hbres so fonmng pouches called sacauM. These sacculi occur most fVe-- quently in the posterior part of the bladder, and, in most cases, their wa l are composed merely of mucous membrane and peritoneum. Sometimes however, a layer of muscular fibres is also found in them. These sacculi form pouches m which putrid urine accumulates and frequently gives rise to mflainmation of the mucous membrane, sometimes ending in ulceration' and possibly perforation of the bladder. Much more often it gives rise to attacks u l^fi P^^'^tonitis, and portions of intestine may thus become adherent to the bladder. The causes which give rise to an increased demand for force in expulsion of the urine, and consequently to hypertrophy of the bladder, are various The most common is perhaps obstruction in the urethra from stricture In some cases It may arise from an irregular enlargement of the prostate in which the obstruction is not valvular in character. Yilloua growths and other tumours of the bladder may call for increased force, fi^om partially obstructing the orifice of the urethra. Chronic cystitis, from the alteration it produces in the character of the urine, always causes more or less hypertrophy. Stone in the bladder causes obstruction to the flow of urine, partly mechanically, and partly by the chronic cystitis to which it usually gives rise. The thick ropy mucus of chronic cystitis undoubtedly oflFers very considerable obstruction to the flow of urine. All these causes, therefore, may give rise to more or less hyper- trophy. There is no evidence that mere frequency of action plays any important part in the production of hypertrophy. In the few recorded cases in which there was great frequency of micturition with healthy urine in cases •of calculous or tuberculous pyelitis, no mention is made of any marked hypertrophy. There is every reason to beheve that hypertrophy of the bladder plays a very important part in the production of kidney disease. In no case, as the result of obstruction to the exit of urine from the bladder, do we find the valves of the ureters incompetent. In the simple dilatation from valvular obstruction in the prostate, they are closed more firmly than natural. No regurgitation takes place, but of course the pressure in the ureters and kidneys will be increased, while the bladder is over-distended. In hypertrophy of the walls, we find also a certain amount of obstruction to the entrance of urine into the bladder, as the ureter has to pass obliquely through the thickened wall, and is doubtless often pressed on by thickened bauds of fibres. The swelling of the mucous membrane at the orifice of the ureter in an inflamed