CARIES OF SPINE: TREATMENT OF PARAPLEGIA. 497 with safcisflictorj results, and in suitable cases is certainly to be recommended. After a lumbar or psoas abscess has been opened for some time, and the dis-^ charge reduced to a very small amount, the patient may be allowed to move about with a proper plaster support, through which an opening may be made opposite the sinus for dressing the wound ; or a poroplastic or leather support may be made which can be removed when necessary. Antiseptic dressing must be continued as long as any discharge persists. The Treatment of Paraplegia in spinal caries must be based upon the important fact that the pressure is, in the large majority of cases, due to inflammatory products, and not to displacement of the bones. The treatment must therefore be directed to the removal of all causes which tend to increase the inflammatory processes in the neighbourhood of the bone disease. Of these causes the most important are the weight of the upper part of the body and tonic contraction of the muscles. These must therefore be counteracted applying extension to the spine in the recumbent position. The applica- tion of weight extension has already been described at p. 491, but perhaps in i cases of paraplegia elastic extension, as advocated by Horsley, is more eificient. This can readily be done by means of india-rubber " accumulators " attached to the extremities of the patient's body and to the upper and lower end of the bed respectively. The upper accumulators are fixed to the head by straps i beneath the chin and occiput, and, unless the disease be cervical, to soft bands l« passing round the armpits ; the lower ones are fixed to a pelvic band or to anklets. During this treatment the hmbs should be rubbed to maintain their nutrition. By the employment of these means recovery slowly occurs in the (majority of cases, but the process is a tedious one, and many months often elapse before any signs of returning power manifest themselves. The cure of cases of compression paraplegia, resisting other treatment, by operative inter- ference may justly be considered one of the triumphs of modern surgery. In 1883 Macewen operated upon a boy who was the subject of complete paraplegia, with incontinence of urine and fgeces, of two years' duration. He removed the lamina of the 5th, 6th, and 7th dorsal vertebrse, and exposed a fibrous mass one-eighth of an inch in thickness, which was dissected off the outer siirface of the dura mater. Improvement began twenty-four hours later, and after six months the patient could walk. Five years after the operation the boy was playmg football at school. Of four other cases in which laminectomy was performed by Macewen two were successful; one died a week after the operation, and one after eight months from general tuberculosis. Macewen's cases were not published until 1888, but in the meanwhile other Surgeons had adopted the same treatment, and among those who have proved its utility in suitable cases are Horsley, Chipault, Thorburn, Arbuthnot Lane, Abbe and .'thers. Chipault in 1890 was able to collect 35 cases in which laminectomy •AHS performed for the relief of paraplegia complicating spinal caries; of these L^O were cared or marlcedly improved, and 10 died, but onlv three or four deaths ;-uld be attributed directly to the operation. In successful cases sensation if impaired or lost, returns before motion, and the sphincters recover early In i.nsuccessful cases either no improvement occurs, or a temporary improvement is iollowed by a relapse. The operation has proved more successful in children i.an m adults. Of 75 cases collected by Lloyd of New York, 20 were adults were children, and m the remainder the age was not noted. Of the 20 adults' I died at varying periods after the operation ; of the 39 children 16 died ' VOL. II. ^""^iu. K K