TERMINATIONS OF ANEURISM. "5 and Howard Marsh has recently brought forward a case in which spontaneous cure of a femoral aneui-ism appears to have resulted from this cause. Most frequently it is by the gradual deposit of laminated fibrin, completely filling up the interior of the sac. This process usually takes place in aneurisms affecting arteries of the second or third magnitude, rarely in those of the aorta (Fig. 451) ; and it can happen only in sacculated aneurisms, the fusiform not admitting of it,' it being necessary that the blood flowing through the sac be somewhat retarded in its passage, so as to favour the adhesion of the colourless corpuscles which is the fii-st step in deposit of fibrin upon the interior of the tumour. This process, which is the same as in the formation of a white thrombus in a vein (see p. 54), is the increase of a natural condition always going on in the sac. In fact in all cases of sacculated aneurism, there is a tendency to spontaneous cure, as shown by a contraction and partial occlusion of the artery heloiv the sac, and the consequently diminished circulation through it, by which the deposit of fibrin is increased. At the same time the collateral vessels given off above the sac often enlarge to a considerable extent, and thus divert from it blood which would otherwise have passed through it. This condition of the vessel below the sac may be looked upon as the first and most important step towards the consoli- dation of the tumour. The process is also materially assisted by the mouth of the sac being small. It is probable that in some instances spontaneous cure is determined by a clot detached from the interior of the aneurism becoming arrested in •the vessel beyond the sac. For spontaneous cure to take place, it is by no means necessary that the whole current of blood should be suddenly arrested. If such an accident occur, the aneu- rismal sac becomes filled with a large dark soft clot, which may yield, if from any cause a pulsating stream of blood be again admitted, bat which under favourable circum- stances may lead to a complete cure. If blood continue to circulate through the sac, deposit of laminated fibrin will take place if the impetus with which this fluid is sent into the tumour be Zt^fl r ™' may happen from the occurrence, in the distal rtWp li T f'''^^ ^^'^ been found that in those cases m which two aneurisms are situated upon one artery the distal ZZZ'iTr'^'T ''''''' "^^^ complete'consolidation^t bl o1 10 ng Its impetus m its passage through the first sac. Any constitutional toice of the flow of blood through the sac diminished (as the occurrence of I 2 Fig. 451.—Spontaneous cure of Aortic Aneurism The .sac IS mostly filled with laminated clot, which is easily distinguished from the soft clot which occupies the mouth of the sac.