231 LIGATURE OF COMMON ILIAC. The artery may be reached by an incision similar to that employed for the external iliac, or through the peritoneal cavity. Extraperitomcil Method.—Tliis, may be done by extending the incision used by Aberuethy for the ligature of the external iliac upwards and slightly inwards towards the umbilicus, to an extent corresponding to the degree of obesity of the patient, so that it assumes a somewhat similar form. If the operation is commenced with the intention of applying a ligature to the common trunk, the incision should be made from a point about one inch external to and one inch above the middle of Poupart's ligament in a curved direction to another point about two inches above and the same distance internal to the anterior superior iliac spine. The curve must be such that if prolonged the incision would reach a point about midway between the xiphoid cartilage and the umbilicus. Care must be taken that the incision be not carried too low down or too far forwards ; nothing can be gained by doing so, and there is besides the additional risk of the circumflex iliac or epigastric being wounded, as happened to Mott; and as these are the principal agents in the anastomosing circulation, their injury is a serious accident. The muscles are carefully divided, as in the operation for tying the external ihac, and the transversalis fascia opened in the same way. The peritoneum now comes bulging into the wound, pressed forward by its contents. It must be gently stripped from the iliac fossa by the Surgeon carefully insinuating his hand beneath it, care being taken to raise it directly inwards towards the brim of the pelvis, at which point the external iliac will be found, which serves as a guide to the common trunk. The ureter always comes up with the peritoneum, and is usually not seen. The peritoneum must be well drawn inwards by broad copper spatulas. The ligature must be passed round the artery on the left side from within outwards, a slight scratch having been made through the fascia covering the vessel by means of the finger-nail, by which it may also be separated fi'om the accompanying vein. On the right side great caution must be used, on account of the position of the left vein beneath the artery and the right to its outer side. In the later stages of the operation, the patient should be turned on his sound side in order to prevent the intestines falling over and pressing the peritoneum into the wound. Transpeiitoneal Method.—The difficult operation above described was fully justified when it was necessary at all costs to avoid opening the peritoneal cavity. Since, however, laparotomy, performed with proper antiseptic pre- cautions, has come to be regarded as almost free from danger, the only serious objection to the exposure of the common iliac artery through the peritoneum has been removed, and in future cases the transperitoneal method is likely to be employed. In the preparation of the" patient it is essential that the intestines should be emptied by the use of aperients and enemata. The bladder also should be empty and the pubes shaved. The abdomen is opened by a median incision below the umbilicus and the intestines are drawn aside with sponges and retractors. The peritoneum covering the artery is divided and in passing the needle care must be taken not to wound the vein or include the ureter or the sympathetic fibres which accompany the vessel. A strong light thrown into the wound is very essential. Of the cases in which this operation has been performed may be mentioned one by Fluhrer, in which death occurred on the 7th day from acute nephritis, and a successful case by