259 HA REFYING OSTEITIS. destroyed before the advancing cells as are the soft tissues in the formation of an abscess-cavity, or in ulceration of the skin. When recovery takes place the inflammatory products develop into bone instead of into fibrous tissue as in the soft parts. The compact tissue is also liable to chronic inflammatory affections of the same type as those leading to fibroid induration of the soft parts, but in bone the product of the process is new osseous tissue which develops in the Haversian canals, gradually narrowing them, and rendering the texture more dense than natural. The inflammatory processes observed in compact bone are the following :— (1.) Earefying or rarefactive osteitis; (2.) Osteoplastic or condensing osteitis'; and (0.) Necrosis. Rarefying or Rarefactive Osteitis.—Th s may occur as a secondary effect of inflammation commencing in the periosteum or in the medulla. It is observed also as the result of injury, as in a piece of bone denuded of its periosteum, or ou each side of a fracture. In many cases its original cause is very obscure. A portion of compact bone undergoing this change is in the earliest stages shghtly redder than natural ; the openings of the Haversian canals after a time become somewhat increased iu size, and consequently a larger number are visible to the naked eye. As the process advances the Haversian canals increase at the expense of the bone surrounding them, and when they reach a sufficient size they can be seen to contain a small quantity of pink granulation tissue surrounding the vessel. If a portion of the bone at this stage be macerated it presents a porous spongy appearance, almost resembling cancellous tissue. If the process advances still further, as in the separation of a piece of dead bone, the neighbouring enlarged Haversian canals coalesce, the solid osseous tissue disappearing entirely, and a soft mass of granulation tissue fills the space once occupied by solid bone. The superficial layers of the granulation tissue may break down into piis under the same conditions that give rise to suppuration elsewhere, or, should the process cease, the new tissue develops mto bone by the same process as in osteoplastic periostitis, the new osseous tissue being first formed in connexion with the old. _ The rarefying osteitis may be limited to a small portion of the bone as m the separation of a sequestrum, or may be diffused over a wide area In the latter case it is more chronic, and, although rendering the bone more porous than natural, rarely leads to its complete destruction for any o-reat extent. ^ Microscopic examination of a piece of bone affected by rarefying osteitis t7A ^'"'J"^''™^ appearances. In the earliest stage the vessels are dis- tended with blood, and numerous cells, probably migrated leucocytes, are found m the delicate connective tissue contained in the Haversian canal. In a more advanced stage these cells are greatly increased in number, and the wall of the canal is seen to have been consumed away before them. The destruction of the osseous tissiie takes place irregularly in excavated concentric hollows, first described by Howship and consequently named Howshi/s Ucunc,- (F o l\t^L these will be found to be filled by cells of con- siderable size containing several nuclei, each cell corresponding to a lacuna |The8e multi-nucleated cells, which have received the name of osteoclast 1 physiological process, as the development of the medullary canal. They lie S 2