ADENOID VEGETATIONS. \ i-egion and to the mucous membrane at the opening of the glottis. The 1 causes are various, amongst the most common being abuse of alcohol and i| tobacco, but chronic dyspepsia from other causes may predispose to it. Exces- s sive use of the voice is also a frequent cause. The condition is common in C scrofulous subjects. The symptoms are those of ordinary catarrhal pharyngitis, -1 increased in severity and accompanied by hoarseness or loss of voice, and i| frequently by some deafness from obstruction of the Eustachian tubes, and occasionally by loss of smell. On examination the enlarged follicles are seen forming rounded or oval eminences dotted over the mucous membrane, some- times coalescing and forming larger elevations or ridges. Small tortuous I dilated veins are very commonly present. Most commonly there is little or no excess of secretion, the throat being more or less dry and glazed, often with crusts of dried mucus upon it, especially visible on turning the velum upward. In another variety of the disease, described as the exudative form, there is a chick, opaque, tenacious secretion which hangs about the orifices of the follicles at the back of the pharynx. The treatment is often very unsatisfactory. The avoidance of all sources of irritation, of alcoholic excess, and of over-use of the voice is essential. The digestion must be attended to and the bowels kept regularly open. Locally the throat may be sprayed with astringent lotions, such as alum or tannic acid, or may be painted with glycerine of tannin, care ibeing taken to pass the brush up behind the soft palate. When there is an accumulation of viscid mucus or dry crusts in the pharynx, sprays through the anterior nares, and behind the palate, give great relief. The patient should learn to do this himself. If the throat is dry, chloride of ammonium lozenges give much relief. The application of solid nitrate of silver to the enlarged follicles is sometimes of use, and in extreme cases they have been destroyed by the application of powerful chemical caustics or by the galvanic cautery, not 1 merely rubbed over, but pushed into each separate follicle. Cocaine should be • applied first, and a little (gr. i to \) of morphia in powder with starch blown over the part afterwards. If these severe measures are adopted only a few follicles must be treated at a time, otherwise dangerous inflammatory swelling may result. Adenoid Vegetations.—A condition was first fully described by Meyer of < 'opeuhagen under the name of " follicular hypertrophy," which is characterised Ijy a general overgrowth of the lymphoid follicles situated about the posterior nares and the upper part of the pharynx. The condition is extremely common in children and young adults, and is especially frequent among the inhabitants of cold damp climates. It is favoured by any conditions which tend to cause a chronically inflamed and relaxed state of the throat, and thus it is common in strumous subjects and often appears to result from measles or scarlet fever. In all cases the lymphoid tissue which is solely or chiefly aflFected is that which stretches across the posterior wall of the pharynx on a level with the orifices of the Eustachian tubes. This becomes transformed into a soft spongy cushion, or even into a mass of polypoid vegetations which may completely block the posterior nares. The condition can be recognized 'V posterior rhinoscopy (p. 587), or more readily by passing the index finger ;ibove the soft palate. The symptoms are for the most part the result of obstruction to nasal respiration, and are thus identical with those produced by ';hronic enlargement of the tonsils fp. 705). The two conditions are indeed frequently associated, and in any case of enlarged tonsils in which the si^ns