COMPLETE EXCISION OF UPPER JAW. 637 breathe Llivough, aud if it be carefully managed, a great part of the cavity may he filled with sponges during the operation. In this way, in ordinary cases, this operation may be performed without a drop of blood passing down the throat. If the tumour be very large and vascular, and much haemorrhage is expected, it may be advisable to adopt more efficient means to prevent the risk of asphyxia. This danger may be entirely avoided by the method devised by Trendelenburg, and adopted by Langenbeck, in cases of operation about the iaws, palate, or pharynx, in which serious hfemorrbage is anticipated. The [.afcient having been placed under the influence of chloroform, tracheotomy is performed iu the usual way above the thyroid body. A trachea-tube fitted wiLh a hollow india-rubber collar (Fig, 695, 1) is then introduced, and the inhalation of the anaesthetic vapour carried on through it by attaching, by means of an india-rubber tube, a funnel containing a sponge (Fig. 095, 2). When the Surgeon is about to commence his operation, the collar is inflated by means of the india-rubber ball attached (Fig. 695, 3) ; the effect Fig. 095.—Trendeleiibni-g's Tracliea-Tainpoii. 1. The Traoliea-tube and Collar slightly inflated. 2. The Inhaling Funnel. 3. The Inflating Bottle attached to the Collar on Trachea-tube. being to close the trachea round the tube, and thus to cut ofi' all possibility of blood finding its way down the larynx into the lungs. After the operation is completed, the " trachea-tampon " is removed, and an ordinary trachea-tube is substituted and retained as long as may be thought' necessary. If this apparatus be not at hand, the desired result may be equally well obtained by performing a preliminary laryngotomy and then plugging the pharynx with a large sponge, which can be withdrawn as soon as the operation is over. Maccwen has suggested that instead of opening the larynx or trachea a tube should be passed from the mouth through the pharynx and the glottis, the upper opening of the larynx being then plugged with a sponge. This he has successfully done in several cases. The tube should be of gum-elastic, and should correspond to about a No. 10 or 12 English catheter. It is passed by introducing the finger into the mouth and depressing the epiglottis on the tongue, and so guiding the tube over the back of the finger into the larynx. The patient's head should be thrown somewhat backwards while the tube is being passed.