CONSERVATIVE SURGERY OF THE HAND. 401 necessarily tlic primary consideration ; but if a part be not useful, it may, as in the case of the head of the middle metacarpal bone in amputation of the corresponding- finger, be sacrificed for the purpose of preserving the symmetry of the maimed limb. The hand is the organ of prehension and of touch ; and in all operations performed on it we should endeavour, as far as practicable, to preserve its efficiency in both these respects. It is also of importance to bear in mind that two great classes of actions can be carried oat by the hand— those that require force, and those that require delicacy of manipulation rather than strength. By a surgical operation we may sometimes succeed in pre- serving one, though we are compelled to sacrifice the other. Thus, by partial excision, we may leave a hand that would enable a clerk to hold his pen, though it would be almost useless to a labourer or blacksmith. We may consider the hand as being composed of two constituents—the hand proper, and the Thumh; the thumb being an opponent to the rest of the member, without which its utility is comparatively limited. Hence, in all cases of injury or disease implicating the thumb, every eflFort ought to be made to preserve it. Even if it be left stiffened and incapable of flexion at the interphalangeal joint, it will be a most useful opponent to the rest of the hand. Should it be found necessary to shorten it, care must be taken that as little as possible is removed ; a portion of a phalanx, or its metacarpal bone even, is of essential utility in giving strength and breadth to the grasp of the hand. ^ In cases of disease, a very useful member may be left by the removal of a portion or the whole of the ungual phalanx, of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation, or even by the excision of the metacarpal bone, the phalanges being left. These various operations are easy of performance; an incision through the diseased and disorganised soft parts will expose the necrosed bone or carious joint, which must be removed by cutting-pliers or a narrow saw. When the thumb has been forced back, or badly lacerated by powder- flask or gun-barrel explosions, it may often be saved by being replaced and maintained in position on a sphnt, with some form of antiseptic dressing applied to it ; and, should amputation be required, it must be done in accordance with the rule just mentioned—of saving as much as possible of the injured part. In the conservative surgeiy of the Fingers the preservation of flexion and extension in the part left is the main thing to be aimed at ; a rigid stump is always in the way. The preservation of these movements becomes more important m proportion as the palm is approached. It is of greater consequence that the proximal phalanx, which carries the rest with it, should be capable of being bent into the palm, than that the distal can be flexed on the second. If the proximal phalanx can be bent down, a very small degree of movement in •tne distal one will be sufficient to furnish pliability enough in the finger to make It a useful member ; but if the proximal one be stiffened, no amount of mobility m the distal phalanx can make it useful. In preserving these movements, it is necessary to be particularly careful of the sheaths of the tendons. If these be opened or injured, it will generally be lound either that the tendon sloughs, or that it becomes adherent to its sheath in such a way that movement is lost, or greatly impaired. The only phalanx that can be excised with advantage is the distal one It Often happens, m the destructive disorganization which results from whitlow that this necroses ; when, instead of amputating the end of the finger, it mav VOL. II. tj > s J D D