1248 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. sac. This should be done very freely, the altered blood clot and fibrino,. deposit being thoroughly removed from the sac. The operation can genS be oompleW by partially oxoiBin^ the sac walUnd :„S7 ZST^., to thoso ot the skm The meisk.n should be loosely pl„ Jed with a st^hf ga„.e and an ant.sept.e dres.sins applied. The remaini'ng etvity i allow , granulate from the bottom aud thus become obliterated. If the turaZ w, of very large s,ze and the tunica vaginalis much thickened, hardened a , parchment-bke with adherent and laminated fibrin, castration might poin be required. In the instance to which I have already referred, and whSt represented m Fig. !)-18, this was rendered necessary in consequence Tf the conditions, and was successfully done. Hematocele of the Spermatic Cord has been observed by Pott, Curlin. Jiowman, and others ; it is a rare disease, and usually occurs in the form ot a tumour of considerable size, suddenly arising after a strain or son. violent exertion, giving rise to rupture of a varicose spermatic vein. It commences in the inguinal canal, and thence ex- tends downwards along the course of the cord, through the abdominal ring into the scrotum ; but it does not surround or implicate the testis, which can be felt free and movable at its lowest part. On incising such a tumour as this, a quantity of blood, partly fluid and partly coagulated, has been found' sometimes contained in a cavity occasioned by the laceration and separation of the tissues of the cord and scrotum. The most remarkable case of this kind on record is one related by Bowman, in which the tumour, after existing for ten years, had attained so enormous a size, that it reached to the patella, and was so heavy as to require both hands and a considerable effort to raise it from its bed. In this case, death appears to have resulted from decomposition of the contents of the tumour. Diagnosis.—In its early stages, hsematocele of the cord would run consider- able risk of being confounded with an inguinal hernia. The more diffused character of the swelling, however, its irregular feel, its semi-fluctuating sensation, and the impossibility of reduction, might enable the diagnosis to be made (p. 866.) Hjematocele of the cord may always be distinguished from an accumulation of hlood in the tunica vaginalis, by the testicle not being implicated in the former case, but surrounded by the -fluid in the latter. The Treatment of this disease must in the earlier stages be of a palliative kind, consisting in rest, support of the tumour, and the application of evaporating lotions. Care should be taken not to incise it at this period, lest the loss of blood from the ruptured vein, after the evacuation of the contents of the tumour, become uncontrollable. In one instance I have known fatal consequences from this cause ensue in half an hour after making an incision into the tumour and turning out the coagula. When, however, the disease has reached a chronic stage, and is no longer increasing, it may be incised: and its contents being turned out, the cavity may be allowed to granulate. Fif;. (»4S.—HiEin.atocele witli thick ened Tunica Vaginalis and ad herent Fibrin.