DIFFICVLTIES DURING LATERAL LITUOTOMY. .06. ^^P^r d in in rodu he staff fairly into the bladder, he must on 'TlX^^^^ open that viscus, or continue his attempts at no ^'''l'''i2Ta^^^^^ but must at once abandon the operation until t "h - hlaled In he can repeat it. The great danger in these cases the parts have neaie endeavouring to eX\h:bladt S^t a^ — ^^t^Difficulty in Seizing and Extracting the Stone is far more frenuentrmet with than m reaching the bladder. This may be omng to T varfetrof causes. It is likely to happen in all those cases m which eLer from the depth at which the bladder lies from the surface, or from the ;"po^^^^ of the calculus, the stone cannot be felt with the finger after the incisions have been made into the neck of the bladder mmLlty from the Position of the Stone.-The calculus may b lodged in the lower fundus. This is especially apt to happen if the patient be old and fat, and have a deep perinseum, perhaps with an enlarged prostate, behind which the stone may be lodged. Here the best plan is to use a much- cur^dpair of forceps, and to tilt the bladder up by introducing the finger into the rectum, so as to bring the stone withm reach. When the stone is situated in the upper fundus of the bladder, it is altogether out of the axis of the incision, and in such a case can be extracted onlv with great difficulty. Aston Key recommends that in such cases the abdomen should be compressed, and the calculus thus pushed down into reach This suggestion is a very useful one ; and it was only by employing this manoeuvre and using a very curved scoop, that I could remove a calculus lodged above the pubes, in the first patient whom I cut at the Hospital. Difficulty in consequence of the Stone being Fixed to the Bladder.— \ small calculus may be enveloped hj the folds of the mucous membrane or between htjpertrophied fasciculi, and in this way elude the grasp of the forceps. In these circumstances there is nothing for the Surgeon to do, but patiently to try to disentangle and remove the calculus by means of the finger and scoop, if it can be so reached ; if not, by expanding the forceps in the bladder, to ti7 to push aside the mucous membrane that surrounds the stone. In consequence of Spasm of the Bladder, it is said to have occasionally happened that a calculus has been so firmly fixed as not to admit of the apphcation of the forceps. I am disposed to think that this " spasm of the bladder " is purely imaginary, and that the real difficulty has arisen from some other cause, as perhaps a contracted and rickety pelvis. But, whatever may be the real cause of a difficulty that has undoubtedly been encountered, I think it would be safer for the Surgeon to desist from the operation, and in the course of a few days or weeks endeavour to complete the extraction, and thus perform the operation " a deux, temps " of Deschamps. When the calculus is encysted, its extraction \^ill probably be impracticable, or attended with most dangerous consequences. Hence, it is expedient not