LOCAL EFFECTS OF STRANGULATION. 833 from the fact that at first the pressure is seldom sufficient to arrest the arterial flow, while it seriously impedes that through the veins. As a conse- quence of this the gut gradually swells, and at last the arterial flow is arrested also. The gut becomes at first of a claret, maroon, or purplish-brown colour, sometimes ecchymosed on the surface, with thickening and stiffening of its coats owing to effusion into their substance. At the same time the sac becomes distended with fluid poured out from the over-distended vessels before the circulation is completely arrested. The vessels of any omentum that may be present in the sac will be similarly distended. The interference with the cir- culation necessarily leads to a progressive diminution of vitality, which speedily terminates in gangrene of the strangulated gut. The phenomena of inflam- mation cannot manifest themselves after the circulation is arrested. In fact in all cases of severe and rapid strangulation they are entirely wanting, the surface of the gut being free from lymph, and the fluid in the sac perfectly clear though darkly stained with blood. In the cases of slow strangulation, on the other hand, in which the gut is so loosely held that the circulation continues, although the passage of faeces is arrested, the signs of inflammation are commonly met with. In these cases the bowel is dark in colour, though not so dark as in more acute strangulation, and is coated here and there with flakes of lymph, which give it a rough and villous look ; the omentum has a some- what rosy tinge, and there is usually a good deal of pale reddish fluid contain- ing flakes of lymph in the sac. It is theoretically possible that in some cases the strangulation may be so complete and sudden that the arterial and venous flow would be simultaneously arrested. In such a case the gut would be pale and the sac free from fluid. Such a condition, if it does occur, is of infinite rarity. "When gangrene occurs, the bowel loses its lustre and pohsh, becoming of an ashy-grey, or dull-black colour, soft and somewhat lacerable, 80 that its coats readily separate from one another ; the serous membrane especially peeling off. The omentum is dark purplish, or of a kind of dull yehowish-grey ; and there is usually a considerable quantity of dark turbid fluid in the sac, the whole contents of which are more or less offensive. Usually, when gangrene occurs in a strangulated rupture, inflammation of the sac and its coverings takes place, accompanied, after a time, by a reddish-blue or congested appearance and some tenderness on pressure ; and, if the part be left unreduced, eventually by emphysematous crackling. Finally gangrene of the skin will take place ; the sac giving way, and the ftecal matters being discharged. In such circumstances as these—which, fortunately, are very rarely met with at the present day—the patient usually dies from exhaustion. In exceptional cases peritonitis may be set up by ulceration and perforation of the gut immediately above the seat of stricture, but in the great majority this does not take place as the portion of bowel immediately within the stricture becomes adherent to the wall of the abdomen and the neighbouring coils of intestine, and thus fsecal extravasation is prevented. It does not follow that there is always external evidence of the occurrence of gangrene within the sac ; and the bowel is frequently nipped to such an extent as to prevent its regaining its vitahty, without any unusual condition being presented until the sac is actually laid open and the intestine examined. The jluid contained in the hernial sac undergoes changes in appearance and character, corresponding to those which take place in the gut. In earlier and shghter cases it 'continues clear and but moderately abundant. Some- VOL. II. 3 j.^