accoun wei SIG'iYS OF LATERAL CURVATURE. 521 ted for by the oblique position assumed by the sacral facet when the io-ht of the body is thrown unequally on the two lower extremities. In the earlier stages of lateral curvature the bones are not altered but the intervertebral discs are compressed on the concave side of the curve, boon, however, a gradual alteration takes place in the bones themselves, the bodies of which assume a more or less pronounced wedged shape, the broader end ot the wedge corresponding to the convexity and the narrower end to the concavity of the curvature. In advanced cases bony hps are found along the borders of the bodies in the positions of greatest compression, and these may increase in size until, by their union with those of adjacent vertebrae, they foi-ni strong buttresses passing from one bone to another. Too much importance cannot be attached to these secondary bony deformities, for the object of treatment must be to cure the curvature before it is rendered permanent by their occurrence. In the true form of rickety lateral curvature which occasionally occurs in young children, the most important element is an unequal growth of the bodies of the vertebrge on the two sides. This occurs as soon as the slightest amount of lateral curvature is main- tained by faulty positions. The weight of the upper part of the body is transmitted chiefly through those portions of the vertebral bodies which form the concavity of any existing curve. In the areas of maximum pressure the growth of the rickety bone is readily Interfered with and thus the curve is constantly exaggerated by deficient bone growth on the concave side as compared with that on the convex side. Signs of lateral Curvature.—The signs of this affection, when it is well marked, are obvious. In the majority of cases the dorsal curvature is convex to the right side and the lumbar curvature to the left. The amount of the deviation becomes more apparent if the position of the tip of each spinous process is marked on the skin with ink. It must, how- ever, be remembered that, on account of the rotation of the vertebrae, the curve thus pro- duced is much less marked than one which would be formed by a hne drawn through the centres of the bodies. This rotation of the vertebrae produces a very characteristic deformity of the chest. Thus the ribs on the right side are . thrown backwards and become unusually curved in their posterior parts ; and as a necessary result of this the right scapula becomes unduly prominent, so that often the first symptom of lateral curvature which attracts attention is the " growing-out " of the right shoulder. For the same reason the left ribs are sunk and depressed behind, whilst they project in front, throwing the sternum over to the right of the middle line and causing projection forwards of the left breast. The intercostal spaces are widened on the right side, whilst on the left side the ribs are crowded together. When, as is usual, the lumbar curve is directed to the left, the pelvis Fig. C2().—Lateral Ciu-vature of Spine.