736 DISEASES OF THE LARYNX. IS divulod vertically in the middle line, and in ordei- to facilitate separation of Its two halves it may be advisable to divide the cricoid also. The extent of the disease can now be accurately determined, and the Surjjeon mugt decide whether it is possible to remove the disease from the interior of the thyi-oid cartilage or whether total or partial excision of the larynx is necessary In the former case, following Batlin's advice, the Surgeon may proceed to cat away freely the diseased tissues with scissors, either removing no cartilage at all or only such parts as appear to be diseased. Semon especially insists upon the necessity of good illumination; he also recommends that the"interior of the larynx should be twice mopped out with a 5 per cent, solation of cocaine, which diminishes the amount of htemorrhage during the removal of the disease. After the removal of all the diseased tissues the bleeding must be thoroughly arrested, and the interior of the larynx dusted with equal jjarts of iodoform and boric acid. The Hahn's cannula is at once removed and the wound covered with cyanide gauze. The after-treatment consists in keeping the patient in a nearly horizontal position, so that the discharges may have less tendency to enter the air-tubes ; dusting the wound twice daily with iodoform and boric acid ; changing the gauze dressing as often as it is soiled; and feeding the patient by enemata for the first few days, unless he can swallow fluids in the position proposed by Wolfenden and recommended by Semon, viz., leaning with the upper part of the body well over the end of the bed. If on account of the extent of the disease it be thought necessary to perform compleie excision of the larynx, the single vertical incision above described may suffice ; but Hahn recommends in addition a transverse incision parallel to the cornua of the hyoid bone. All the soft i)arts are turned off the two sides of the larynx as far as possible with a periosteal elevator, all bleeding vessels being ligatured as they are cut. The thyro-hyoid membrane is next cut through, and the larynx being drawn forwards, it is carefully separated from the pharynx, the epiglottis usually being removed. Blunt-pointed scissors will be found more convenient than the knife at this part of the operation. They must be kept as close as possible to the cartilages, numerous short snips being made, and any wounded vessels immediately secured. The larynx is now turned down- wards and carefully separated from the pharynx. Finally, the removal is completed by dividing the membrane between the cricoid cartilage and the trachea, and the ooening of the latter is secured to the skin bv several sutures. When the operation is completed and all bleeding arrested, an india-rubber tube must be inserted into the oesophagus, through which the patient must be fed until healing is far advanced. The wound must be plugged with some absorbent antiseptic material, such as iodoform gauze, sufficiently firmly to prevent any discharges from passing downwards into the trachea, and this must be changed periodically. The tracheotomy tube is necessarily retained permanently. Gussenbauer invented an artificial larynx, which was improved by Foulis, containing a reed for the production of vocal sounds. The first cnse in which excision of the larynx, or laryngectomy, was under- taken was that of a man 3o years of age affected with syphilitic stenosis of the larynx. Heron Watson in 1866 excised the larynx in this case, the patient dying three weeks afterwards of pneumonia. The first excision for carcinoma