DEFORMITIES OF THE LE(1 AND FOOT. 548 certuiu poiut, with as mach freedom as in the natural state, and then further movement is checked by a sudden stop. If this be not dependent on the tibia coming into contact with an ankylosed patella, it is owing to shortening of the ligaments or to the presence of adhesions in the joint. In other cases the hamslrincjs arc, contracted either alone or in addition to the results of chronic inflammation within the joint that have just been described. In these cases the hamstrings will be found to be tight; and, in proportion as the leg is extended on the thigh, they will become more tense, until at last all further extension is resisted, apparently by their traction, and not by any sudden check or stop within the joint itself. Osseous anhijlosis exists in only a small proportion of cases of chronic con- traction of the knee. It maybe met with in any case of contraction following acute or chronic disease of the joint which has caused destruction of the articular cartilage. It is especially apt to follow septic traumatic arthritis. Treatment of Chronic Contraction of the Knee.—It is very essential that in the treatment of all inflammatory conditions of the knee the joint should be kept in the extended position, and thus the occurrence of permanent contraction avoided. Seeing also that the conditions present in a contracted knee and the diseases which lead to it are so various, it follows that no general line of treatment can be laid down which shall be applicable in all cases. It will be convenient to consider in the first place the treatment of those cases in which osseous ankylosis does not exist. Extension of the limb will usually prove sufficient when there is simple angular contraction. This may be done either gradually by means of the screw-splint behind the knee, or forcibly and at once, under the influence of angesthetics. I prefer the latter method, not only as being the more speedy, but as being perfectly safe and eflfectual. The mode of effecting forcible extension is as follows : The patient being fully under the influence of an anaesthetic, and lying on his face, the Surgeon, standing above him, seizes the foot of the affected limb with one hand, whilst with the other he steadies the limb just above the knee. He now extends the leg gradually but forcibly ; as it comes- forwards, the bands of adhesion in and around the joint will be felt and heard; to give way with loud snaps and cracks, distinctly audible at some distance. Should there be much resistance within the joint, the Surgeon may apply his own knee or elbow to the upper surface, and thus increase the force with which the limb is acted upon. In this way I have never found any diflSculty in effecting at once the extension of the limb. Nor have I ever seen any evil consequences result; indeed, it is surprising to what an amount of force a joint that has been contracted for any length of time may be subjected without inconvenience. Beyond some pain for a few days, and slight heat, easily subdued by evaporating lotions, I have never seen any ill results arise : but care must be taken that no inflammation is going on within the joint at the time of this manipulation, for, if this were present, the operation would certainly be followed by injurious results. After extension has been made, the limb should be fixed on a long splint, well padded, or on a Thomas's knec- splint, evaporating lotions applied, and the patient kept in bed for a few days, after which, with the aid of a starched bandage, he may walk about. In those cases in which the flexion appears to be due to retraction of the hamstring tendons, these must be divided. The tendon of the biceps wiUl usually be found to be the most tense, and should first be divided. The.