369 EXCISION OF JOINTS: HISTORY. nature of the attack without much difficulty ; the only cases in which he will really experience any being- those in which the tissues around the joint have been thickened, indurated, and altered in their characters by the application of counter-irritants ; or by some slight articular disease having at some time existed, but having been cured. Causes.—The neuralgia is often referable to the irritation of some particular nerve, either at its origin or in its course. This is particularly the case with neuralgia of the hip or knee, which will often be found to be dependent on irritation of the obturator nerve, owing to intrapelvic disease. In one case of secondary abdominal cancer under my care, the patient was seized with the most intense pain in the right hip and knee, so as to lead to the suspicion that these joints were diseased. On examination after death, it was found that the pain resulted fi'om the implication of the obturator nerve in a mass of intrapelvic growth, the joints themselves being perfectly sound. Treatment.—The treatment must be constitutional, directed especially to re-establish a healthy condition of the uterine organs. If there be amenorrhoea and auEemia, aloetics and the preparations of iron must be given ; if ovarian or uterine irritation or congestion exist, this must be removed by proper local means, and the general health attended to. Nervine antispasmodics and tonics, such as valerian and bark, or assafoetida and quinine in full doses should be administered. The most efficient treatment that can be directed to the affected joint is the application of cold douches and the employment of the continuous electric current, which will cure cases in which all other means have failed; the apphcation of atropine and aconite may be of service in allaying the pain when especially severe. If contraction or other distortion of the limb exist, the patient should be put under an aneesthetic, and extension or rectification of the faulty position then made, care being taken to keep the limb on splints in a proper position for some time after the operation. Indeed, in neurotic or hysterical joint affections, it is often of much use to do something positive or objective in the way of treatment, so as to give the patient an excuse to get well. It is thus that free manipulation or slight "wrenching" of the joint under anaesthetics is often beneficial. In other cases the good effects following this treatment may be explained by the stretching and restoration of the normal position of muscles which had been allowed to become contracted and displaced by long continued fixity or faulty position of the joint. EXCISION OF JOINTS. It will be convenient to consider here the history of the excision of joints and the general indications for the performance of the operation, leaving for subsequent consideration the operations on the individual joints. History.—The operation of resection of the articular ends of bones dates from the very earliest periods of Surgery of which we have any record. Hip- pocrates (in his Chapter on Injuries of Joints) speaks of resections of bones at the joints, whether of the foot, the hand, the leg, the ankle, the forearm or the wrist, as being for the most part unattended with danger, except from syncope or consecutive fever. Celsus, in speaking of compound dislocations, says, if the bare bone project it will always be an obstacle to reduction : that which