STRUCTURE OF A SACCULATED ANEURISM. 107 taken becoming lined with a dense smooth membrane resembling closely the interior of the artery, from which, however, it is separated by a kind of septum. This condition has occasionally been erroneonsly described as a double aorta. 3. The blood may find its way between the laminte of the middle coat, but does not escape farther by rupture of the external, or by the giving way of the lining membrane of the vessel. A sac is consequently formed in the substance of the middle coat, which may become chronic, but which will at last rupture externally. Structure of a Sacculated Aneurism.—An aneurismal sac may vary in size, from a tumour not lai-ger than a cherry to a growth of the magnitude of a cocoa-nut. The mouth, which is oval or round in shape, varies greatly in size, being always very small in proportion to the sac. Usually the interior of an aneurismal sac contains a quantity of colourless fibrin, arranged in concentric laminse of but moderate thickness ; these laminte of fibrin are of a pale-buff colour, dry, and somewhat brittle where they are most closely applied to the wall of the sac ; the more external were first deposited, and occasionally are found to have undergone a kind of fatty degeneration ; as we approach the interior of the vessel, they become softer and more coloured, and at last, in the central portions, dark masses of coagulum are often met with. This colourless laminated fibrin was termed by Broca the active clot, as it is deposited only when the blood is in motion in the sac of the aneurism. It is formed in the same way as a colourless thrombus in a diseased vein (set; p. 54), the first step in the process being the adhesion of a layer of white corpuscles to the diseased surface. These disintegrate, and thus determine the formation of a layer of fibrin. The microscopic examination of recent laminated clot shows the presence of numerous white corpuscles which have not undergone disintegration between the layers of fibrin. It is probable that these are of a different nature from those which take part in the process of coagulation. In the older layers of clot no corpuscles are recognizable, but much fatty and granular matter is always found, which may have resulted from their disintegration. The part played by the adhesion of the corpuscles in the deposit of laminated fibrin explains the influence of retardation of the blood-stream on its formation. In fusiform aneurisms in which the flow of blood is rapid throughout the dilated vessel, adhesion takes place with difficulty, and no clot is usually formed, while in sacculated aneurisms in which the movement of the blood is necessarily much slower, laminated fibrin is always abundantly deposited. It will afterwards be seen that those modes of treatment by which the flow of blood through the sac is retarded, exert the most powerful influence in determining the deposit of layers of clot. The colour of the clot varies in different cases : the more rapid the flow of blood, the fewer red corpuscles will be entangled in the coagulum; the slower it is the darker the clot will be. Complete arrest of the circulation leads to the formation of an ordinary dark blood-clot, exactly like that produced when blood, with- drawn from the body, is allowed to coagulate. Clot of this kind is always found 7;o6/ mortem in the middle of the sac of the aneurism, and is then formed probably immediately before or after death. Those modes of treatment which completely arrest the flow of blood into the sac cause the formation of a similar coagulum. It is Vciq passive clot of Broca. The layers of fibrin in the laminated clot are more or less concentrically arranged, but no single lamina reaches over the whole sac. The older layers