r 1184 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. inatniments should be used with every possible care and gentleness, liut it is useless to think of passing a catheter through a tight stricture without the employment of some degree of force. The catheter will not " find its own way " here as it does in a healthy urethra, but it must be guided by the hand of the Surgeon ; and there is scarcely an operation in surgery that requires more delicacy of manipulation than that of passing an instrument through a tight stricture. Some force must be used, but the skill is shown in proportioning this to the amount of resistance, and in using it in a proper direction. The appearance of force is indeed often greater than the reality- for, though the point of the catheter have passed a tight stricture, it may still require considerable pressure to push the rest of the instrument through it. With a conical steel bougie less force is required than with the catheter as the stretching is not done with, the point, which should pass easily through the stricture, but with the expanded part beyond, which from its conical form passes without much difficulty. Introduction.—Catheters and sounds are best introduced Ijy laying the patient flat upon his back, with the pelvis somewhat raised, and the head and shoulders low. The Surgeon, standing on tlie left side, inserts the instrument, well warmed and oiled with "Lund's oil" (p. 1116) or vaseline, into the urethra, with its concavity turned towards the left groin, and passes it down the canal, at the same time drawing the penis upwards with his left hand, so as to put the mucous membrane on the stretch. As the instrument approaches the triangular ligament, the handle is carried to the mesial line, and at the same time raised perpendicularly ; and, as its point passes under the pubes, it should be kept well against the upper surface of the urethra, and made to enter the bladder by depressing the handle towards and between the thighs. The surest guide to the bladder is the upper surface of the urethra, which is more fixed than the lower, and less liable to the existence of fistulous openings or false passages. Should difficulty be experienced, the introduction may be facilitated by injecting and slightly distending the urethra with olive oil before passing the instrument. If the meatus is small this must be enlarged by a short incision downwards. If difficulty is found in introducing the instrument, and if any doubt exist as to its being in the right passage, the finger must be introduced into the rectum and its position felt for. If the point of the instrument has left the urethra this may be recognized by its being too thinly covered and too near the gut, or by its being out of the middle line. Chloroform or ether need be administered only if the stricture be very tight or the patient irritable. Under the influence of an anaesthetic, however, many strictures may readily be passed with metaUic instruments that are not pervious in any other way. Results of Introduction of an Instrument.—The introduction of an instrument usually gives rise to a smarting, painful sensation in the urethra ; this is generally most severe as the point approaches the neck of the bladder, and is then sometimes attended with nausea and sudden faintness. As a general rule, the instrument should be passed every second or third day, and when introduced should be left in for about five minutes, or until the spasm of the urethra induced by its introduction has subsided. If, however, the stricture be extremely tight, a very small catheter only having been intro- duced, the instrument may be left in for twenty-four or forty-eight hours,