DISEASE OF THE IIIV-JOINT. 412 ankylosed, as well as wasted and somewhat shortened from disuse. Some- times complete ankylosis occurs without the previous formation of ahscess. In the majority of cases, however, suppuration occurs, and in many forms of acute arthritis, such as that due to acute necrosis of the upper end of the femur, it 15 inevitable in spite of all treatment. The pus soon escapes from the capsule, usually at its thin posterior part. When this occurs the acuteness of the symptoms often diminishes, and tlie abscess slowly burrows forwards and points near the tensor vaginae femoris. After it is opened, if decomposition of the discharges is not prevented, the patient may be worn out by the profuse- ' ness of the discharge ; or great shortening taking place, either by the destruc- tion or separation of the head of the bone or its dislocation out of the acetabu- lum, the cavity of the abscess may ultimately contract, the sequestra, if any are present, may exfoliate, the carious surfaces heal, and the sinuses close after years of suffering. In the most favourable circumstances, when once the . joint has been acutely inflamed, a year or perhaps two will elapse before the patient can use his limb with any degree of security. It is needless f to say that the infective forms of acute arthritis almost invariably end fatally. The Treatment of acute arthritis of the hip joint in its early stages should consist in putting the joint at perfect rest. The great importance of pre- venting, as far as possible, all movement of the inflamed joint, has been considered at p. 340, and the means by which this is best secured in the case of the hip are described at p. 42 G. In this way suppuration may in some instances be avoided. . When once suppuration has taken place, the sooner the pus is evacuated the j better. The retention of pus in the joint leads only to further disorganization I . of the articular structures, to continued constitutional irritation, and at length [ to bursting of the capsule, and the formation of large extra-articular abscesses. To Annandale we are indebted for having put this practice to the test of t experience ; by making a free incision into the posterior part of the joint, in I conjunction with antiseptics and good drainage, he obtained the most satis- factory results. i Should the condition assume a chronic form with persistent discharge, and ^ gradually increasing destruction of the bones, excision may be necessary. TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP. 1 Tuberculous disease is by far the most common affection of the hip which ' comes under the care of the Surgeon, and includes the large majority of cases of subacute and chronic hip-disease occurring in early life. It is the affection to which the terms " Hip Disease" and "Coxalgia" are usually applied. The assertion that the disease now under consideration is tuberculous in nature rests upon the same evidence as that which has already been discussed in the consideration of tuberculous joint diseases in general (p. 343). Tuberculous disease of the hip is most commonly met with before the age of puberty. Out of 48 consecutive cases of which I took notes, I find that in 16 only did it commence at or after fifteen years of age, and, of these, in 0 cases only it happened above twenty. The collected statistics of cases appear to give a very similar proportion. The disease is commonly attributed to slight causes, such as over-exertion in a long walk, a sprain in jumping, a fall, or sitting in the wet. So frequent.