SPECIAL AiVEUHmfS. '1 The carotid and subclavian have also been tied consecutively at intervals varying from two years to one month, in six cases, by Fearn, Wickham, Maloa.gne, Mott, liickersteth, and Adams and Treves. In all cases il ' carotid was tied first. In Fearn's case two years elapsed between the ope..- tions, and the patient died four months after the subclavian was tied pleurisy. The aneurism was found to be consolidated, with the exception .1 a channel leadin- to the subclavian. In Wickham's case relief followed thp ligature of tiie carotid, but symptoms soon returned, and the subclavian v, tied about six weeks afterwards, but without effect, the patient dyino- in two and a-half months from rupture of the sac. In Mott's case a pract'ical cure resulted, the patient dying of phthisis three years after the second operation. In Adams and Treves's case the aneurism was consolidated, but death took place ]()8 days after the second operation from rupture of the sac of an aortic aneurism. In the remaining cases no benefit was derived from the operation. A summary of the cases of aneurism of the innominate, in which the operation of ligaturing one or both arteries beyond the sac has been performed, having thus been given, the question arises whether these operations, or any of them, should retain a place in surgery. This question may be examined from two points of view : 1. As to the principle on which these operations are performed; and 2. As to their results in practice. For the success of the distal operation it is requisite that there be no branch given off, either from the sac or between it and the ligature ; or that the current of blood through the sac be at least so far diminished as to admit of the deposit of laminated fibrin in sufficient quantity to fill it up, by a process similar to that which takes place in a case of aneurism treated by the Hunterian method. In order that this may be accomplished, it is certainly necessary that the greater portion of the blood passing through the sac be arrested ; for if the current that is still kept up be too free, the tumour will continue to increase, as I have seen happen in cases of inguinal aneurism in which the femoral artery was hgatnred below the epigastric and the circumflex ihi, the current through which was sufficient to feed the sac in such a way that a cure could not be accomplished. If, there- fore, but one of the vessels leading from the innominate, as the subclavian beyond the scaleni, be tied, and but a third of the blood circulating through the main artery be arrested, are we justified in hoping that the circulation through the sac will be so influenced that the remaining two-thirds of the blood, which will still pass through for the supply of the carotid and the branches of the subclavian, will gradually deposit those fibrinous laminae by which the cure is to be effected ? Surely, if the comparatively small streams of blood that pass through the epigastric and circumflex ilii are sufficient to interfere with the cure of an inguinal aneurism after the distal ligature of the femoral, the strong current that sweeps through the carotid and the large branches springing from the subclavian, with the full force derived from close proximity to the heart, will most probably be sufficient to prevent all lamination in an aneurism of the innominate. That the arrest of the circulation through one of these vessels only is not sufficient materially to influence the growth of the aneurism, is evident likewise from what is not unfrequently observed after death in cases of this kind. One or other of the vessels may be found com- pressed and obliterated by the pressure of the sac, or plugged by fibrin, and yet no alteration in the tumour has resulted ; and if we turn to the results of