ios8 UlUNAKY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. and I have, with oreat advantage, allowed wine, and even brandv, a day or two after the operation. "' At the end of thirty-six or forty-eight hours the tube may be removed the sides of tlie incision by that time having become glazed over, and little danger of infiltration existing. The patient, who ujj to this time has been lying on his back, should then be directed to change his posture, first to one side\nd then to the other. The buttocks and hips should be well smeared M'ith vaseline, so as to prevent the irritating effects of the urine, which continues to tiow entirely through the wound, and may be received in a large carbolised sponge, which must be changed frequently. About the fourth or fifth day the urine frequently ceases suddenly to flow from the wound, escaping by the urethra. This is owing to the prostate becoming turgid from inflammatory swelling, and thus blocking up the aperture in it; but as this swelling goes down, in the course of a d^y or two, the urine usually escapes by the wound again, and continues to do so in gradually decreasing quantities until the aperture is finally closed, which happens usually at about the end of fourteen or eighteen days; though in patients who have sufi'ered from phosphatic calculus it sometimes takes a longer period, owing to the broken state of the general health. Should the wound fall into a sloughy state, the patient must be put on a very generous diet, with even a free allowance of stimulants ; and the tincture of benzoin may be daily applied. When slow in healing, it may be stimulated with nitrate of silver applied to the bottom ; and, should a fistulous aperture be left, that may be touched with the cautery. After the operation, appropriate constitutional treatment should be continued for some time in order to prevent the recurrence of the disease. lateral Lithotomy in Boys under the age of jmberty is one of the most successful of the great operations in Surgery. The following points are worthy of note, and should be remembered by the Surgeon in proceeding to operate on children :— 1. The urethra will commonly be found larger than would perhaps at firs! be expected, readily admitting a No. 8 or 9 stafi'. 2. The perinseum is usually very vascular in consequence of the straminf;- produced by the irritation of the calculus. 3. There is often from the same cause a tendency to prolapse of the rectum. 4. As the prostate is a rudimentary organ, the deep incision necessarily passes beyond its limits into the neck of the bladder. 5. The tissues are more yielding, and more readily lacerable under the finger. 6. The most important point, however, is, that the bladder lies high, being rather in the abdomen than in the pelvis ; hence, it is of importance to raise the point of the knife somewhat more than in the adult in making the deep incision, and to be careful that it do not slip into the tissues between the rectum and the bladder, which may happen unless this precaution be taken. I have known this to occur in several instances to experienced Surgeons, the forceps being passed into this space under the supposition of its being in the bladder ; and in every case the patient died unrelieved. This accident is the more likely to happen, because in boys the parts are very yielding, and readily admit of being pushed before the knife or finger ; and the finger may thus pass between the neck of the bladder and the pubes, or