HERNIA. 846 ledaced, Uie Surgeon has done all that need be accomplished. The evidon. of the reduction 0 the recent protrusion, although the old adLeZ ''j irreducible hernia be left, is usually sufficiently clear • the norti m returning with a slip and a gurgle, wfth considerable dhni'nutL^ n ^ tZ^ tension of the tumour. fet-ueial OPERATiON.-EKposure of the Sac—The patient must be placed on « table of convenient height and brought to the edge of it. The dissection of the hernial coverings m layers anatomically arranged is never done at an opera ion The burgeon proceeds as follows : An incision of sufficient length is ITZ he neck of the sac ; this may be best done by pinching up a fold of skin, push.m he scalpel through its base with the back of the instrument turned to^vard hemia, and then cutting upwards (Fig. 796). A linear incision is thus mad which may be extended at either end if necessary ; the dissection is then carried through the superficial fascia and fat with the scalpel and forceps If anv small artery spout, it should be tied at once, or seized in forcipressure forceps lest the bleeding obstruct the view of the part in the subsequent steps of the operation. As the Surgeon approaches the sac, greater caution is required, particularly if the subserous areolar tissue be dense, opaque, and laminated. The Surgeon must pinch tliis up with the forceps, make a small incision into it, introduce a director, and lay it open upon this, or on the finger (Fig. 797). If it be thin and not opaque, so as to admit a view of the subjacent parts, he may dissect it through with the unsupported hand. In this way he proceeds until the sac is reached, which is usually known by its rounded and tense appearance, its filamentous character, and its bluish colour. In some cases the Surgeon thinks that he has reached the sac, when in reality he has only come upon a deep layer of condensed areolar tissue in close contact with it; here the dull and opaque character of the tissue and its more solid feel, together with the absence of the peculiar tension that is characteristic of the sac, will enable him to recognize the real state of things. In other cases, the sac is so thin, and the superficial structures are so little condensed, that the Surgeon may lay it open in the earlier incisions before he thinks he has reached it. In these circumstances a portion of the intestine protruding