TAPPING THE I'ERICARDIUM. spot having been selected should be marked with ink. If the patienf Z anasarcous the interspace must be determined by carefully pressing away th! oedema. The needle to be employed should vary with the case if diagnosis be certain, No. 2 (one millimetre, or roughly inch in diamete should be used ; but if the diagnosis be uncertain. No. 1, half this size shoni i be chosen, as with this needle, it is said, the heart may be punctured with impunity The best form of aspirator to use is one such as is represented in ^ig. 94, Vol. I., as needles of such small size are apt to be plugged with small flakes of lymph, and if such an accident occur, they may be cleared ar^ain by reversing the syringe and forcing a small quantity of fluid back into the pericardium. Before using the aspirator, it should be carefully tested with some carbolized water to render it aseptic, and to see that the needle is per- vious, and the whole apparatus in working order. A vacuum having been created in the aspirator by drawing back and fixing the piston, the needle is to be inserted at the spot determined on. As soon as the opening at the point of the needle is covered, the stop-cock leading to it is to be opened, so that the vacuum extends into the needle ; and " we now advance, vacuum in hand, in search of the effusion." The needle must be pushed slowly and carefully onwards in a direction upwards and inwards till the fluid appears in the glass tube of the aspirator. The moment this occurs all movement of the needle must cease, and it must be held steadily as long as the fluid continues to flow. Any unnecessary movement may scratch and injure the surface of the heart. If the flow cease suddenly, as if from some obstruction, a little fluid may be forced back as above stated, to clear the needle. After withdrawing the needle the puncture should be covered with wool and collodion. Over a pint of fluid has been removed by this means at one operation. In inserting the needle, care must be taken not to force it through a costal cartilage, or a small plug of cartilage may be cut oug which would eff'ectually close its canal. Drainage of the Pericardium may be required for purulent pericarditis. The incision should be made in the fourth or fifth intercostal space, and should commence at a point at least an inch from the edge of the sternum, in order that the internal mammary artery, which lies half an inch from the bone, may not be wounded. When the pericardium is reached it should be carefully punctured, and the opening sufficiently enlarged with sinus-forceps to admit a drainage tube. J