DISEASES OF THE OmFHAGUS. 7'4 mid the carotid sheafcli drawn outwards. " The larynx was rotated on its Ion axis by drawing forward the left ala of the thyroid cartilage with blunt hooks so that the pharynx was separated from its bed and its posterior surface m-e sented towards the left side." The pouch was next freed from its surrouaT lugs and a probe passed into it from the mouth. The slightly constricted neck was then out through and the opening closed with eight fine silk sutures An oesophageal tube was passed into the stomach, and the wound filled with lodolorin gauze, the extremities only being sutured. The tube was removed on the same evening on account of the distress which it occasioned, and the patient fed by the mouth. From the 3rd to the 13th day a little liquid food escaped from the wound. The patient was perfectly well a year after the operation, and " could swallow all kinds of food without discomfort." The funnel-shaped diverticula due to traction li-om without are smaller They are commonly seated near the bifurcation of the trachea, in the anterior wall. They are caused by the contraction following inflammatory processes outside the oesophagus, such as the inflammation of a bronchial gland. They are of little consequence, and give rise to no serious symptoms, unless a foreign body should happen to lodge in the pouch, and there set up inflammation and ulceration. Their presence has only been recognized after death. Simple Tumours of the (Esophagus are rare and usually assume a polypoid form. Fibromata or myofibromata have most frequently been met with, but Klebs states that lipoma and myxoma have also been observed. Sarcoma of the (Esophagus is extremely rare. No example of the disease had been brought before the Pathological Society of London until 1889, since which time three specimens have been exhibited, by Targett, L. Shaw and EoUeston. Carcinoma of the (Esophagus is by no means uncommon. It occurs chiefly in three situations—at the upper end of the gullet, impli- cating also the lower part of the pharynx behind the larynx, about the middle opposite the bifur- cation of the trachea, and at the cardiac end; but it has been met with in all parts of the canal. In at least 70 per cent, of the cases the disease assumes the form of squamous carcinoma, and this is almost invariably the case when it is seated at the upper part. At the lower end glandular carcinoma is more common, A few rare cases of glandular carcinoma (scirrhous or more rarely encephaloid), apparently originating from the mucous glands, have been met with in other parts of the canal. All forms of carcinoma tend to spread round the tube, and thus diminish and finally occlude its lumen, giving rise to the symptoms of stricture of the oesophagus. Ulceration occurs sooner or later, and may lead to perforation into the pleural cavity or the trachea according to the situation of the growth, or a large vessel may be opened, causing hfemorrhage. In the great majority of cases, however, death mm Pig. 753.—Carcinoma of Oisopliagus.