153 INTRATHORACIC ANEURISM. SPECIAL ANEURISMS. CHAPTER XLIV. ANEURISMS OF THE THORAX, HEAD AND NECK, AND UPPER EXTREMITY. ANEUBISM OF THE THOBAOIC AORTA. Symptoms -The symptoms of intrathoracic Aortic Aneurism are of two 'Z^^^^l .-atlyin distinctness, and may even be wanHno In some cLs, more especially in fusiform aneurisms they are very matof'almost from the first; in others, especially in sacculated aneurisms re; ly be absent throughout. They consist in and degrees of intensity-bellows, raspmg, or whizzmg ; and m the second sound of the heart being audible over a greater space than normal. At he same time there may be dulness on percussion. These -f^^-^^,^^f^^^ be heard upon or to the left side of the spine more distinctly than at the anterioTpart of the chest; when occurring anteriorly, they are chiefly met ""'^hrvlLVofthetuscultatory signs in the diagnosis of aneurism within the .chest is not perhaps so great as in many other thoracic diseases m the early stages of the affeciion, and in those cases in which the aneurism contmu s small and sacculated throughout, or is so deeply seated as not to approach t e parietes of the chest. This is not surprising, when we reflect how deeply the ascending portion of the aorta and the arch are situated ; how they are covered in front by the lungs and loose areolar tissue, through which sound is with difficulty transmitted ; and how they are covered in behind by the spme and its muscles. When, in addition to this, it is borne in mmd that aneurisms of the arch often prove fatal by rupture before they have attained a size greater than that of a walnut or a pigeon's egg, and thus are incapable of famishing a murmur of any very marked kind, it can easily be anderstood that the value of auscultation is but small in many cases of thoracic aneurism. . , . , The Rational Signs of intrathoracic aortic aneurism are of three Kmas :— Pressure-Eifects ; Pulsation ; and Tumour. Pressure-Effects may be exercised on any of the contiguous structures; and a glance at the anatomical relations of the thoracic aorta, more particularly the arch, will enable the Surgeon to judge of their complexity and importance. They will necessarily vary according to the size of the aneurism and the