3 H 2 1 SYMPTOMS OF STRANGULATION. S35 which in too many cases is the result of the injudicious administration of purijatives. Symptoms.—The signs and symptoms of strangulation arc 01 two kinds: 1. Local ; and 2. General 1. Local Signs.—The tumour, if the hernia be an old one, will be found to be increased in size ; or it may have appeared for the first time. At the moment of strangulation it will generally be found to be hard, tense, and rounded, more particularly if it be an enterocele. When, however, the hernia is in a great measure omental, it is not unfrequently soft and doughy, though afcrangnlated. After strangulation has occurred no fresh protrusion can take place^ below the stricture ; but the tumour may be greatly augmented in bulk after the strangulation has existed for some hours, by the effusion of serum into the sac. If the hernia have previously been reducible, it can no longer be put back ; there is no impulse in it nor increase in its size on coughing, the stricture preventing the transmission of the shock to the contents of the tumour; and in this way, as pointed out by Luke, the situation of the constriction may sometimes be ascertained by observing at what point the impulse ceases. In most cases there is considerable local tenderness. 2. Constitutional Symptoms.—As soon as the strangulation has occurred, intestinal obstruction takes place, and the patient becomes uneasy and restless. Jf the constriction be of an active character, he will be seized with acute pain iu the part, which speedily extends to the contiguous portion of the abdomen. The first thing that happens when intestine is strangulated, whether a large coil be constricted, or a small portion only of the diameter of the gut be nipped, is an arrest of the peristaltic movement of the part implicated ; and the occur- rence of obstruction to the onward course of the intestinal contents is followed hy constipation, vomiting, and colicky pains. The obstruction is always com- plete, neither fteces nor flatus passing : the bowels may sometimes act once lifter the strangulation has occurred from that portion which lies below the «eat of constriction, but they cannot, of course, empty themselves thoroughly, nor from above the strangulated part. Vomiting usually sets in early, and is often very severe and continuous, •^vith much retching and straining ; at first the contents of the stomach are ■ejected, with some bilious matters, but afterwards the vomiting becomes fsecu- lent or stercoraceous. The cause of fteculent vomiting has usually been sup- posed to be an inverted peristaltic action of the intestines. Brinton, however, opposed this time-honoured view, maintaining that the peristaltic action con- tinues direct and causes a peripheral downward current as far as the obstruc- tion, from which point a central upward current returns the contents of the .intestine towards the stomach, but the evidence supporting this theory is far from conclusive. The quantity brought up is often very large in amount, and consists not only of the normal contents of the intestine, but of an abundant secretion from the congested and irritated mucous membrane above the ob- struction. It is greatly increased in quantity should the patient have taken a purgative. In cases of prolonged obstruction it is sometimes mixed with black ;sln-eds of altered blood, indicating intense inflammatory congestion of the mucous membrane. The vomiting is attended with colicky and dragging pains •about the navel. These symptoms are more severe in their character when the strangulation is acute than when it is passive. They occur equally in the incomplete and the complete forms of hernia ; indeed, it not unfrequently