2 94 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. easy to be sure that the separation has occurred ; though, in the majority of cases, the introduction of a probe through one of the fistulous openings leading to the necrosed bone, and firm pressure made upon the latter, will enable the Surgeon to determine this. In other cases, however, the sequestrum, though completely free from all osseous connexions, still continues to be fixed by the pressure of the surrounding granulations, and by the extension of its spicula into the corresponding cavities of the new osseous case. This especially happens when the sequestrum is central and invaginated, and the cloacae lead- ing to it are so small that but a limited portion of it is exposed. Here a more careful examination will be required ; and its looseness may sometimes be determined by pressing upon it with a probe in a kind of jerking manner, or by introducing two probes through different cloacaj, at some distance from one another, and alternately bearing upon the exposed bone with one or other of them. Then, again, if the sound elicited by striking the end of the probe against the sequestrum be a peculiarly hollow one, the detachment of the bone may be suspected. The duration of the case, also, will probably throw some light upon the probable state of things inside the involucrum. The separation of the sequestrum having been ascertained, the Surgeon must adopt measures for its extraction. The part should first be rendered bloodless by Esmarch's apparatus if the disease is situated in a limb. If the necrosis be peripheral, all that is necessary is to make an incision down to it through the soft parts, either by directly cutting upon it or by slitting up sinuses with a probe-pointed bistoury, and then to remove it with a pair of forceps, or to tilt it ofi" the bed of granulations on which it is lying, by intro- ducing the end of an elevator beneath its edge. When the necrosis is central, the sequestrum being embedded in a new case or covered in by old bone, the operative procedures for its removal are of a more compHcated character. The difficulties here consist in some cases in the depth from the surface, and in the obstacle offered to its passage by the soft parts ; in others, in the length and magnitude of the sequestrum m proportion to the small size of the cloacae, and in the manner in which it lies in a direction parallel to these openings. In cutting down upon the bone, the Surgeon must be guided by the direction and course of the fistulous tracks that lead to the principal apertures in the new case, the incision being placed in the axis of the limb, and carefully directed away from the large blood-vessels and nerves. If the part has not been rendered bloodless, however, the hemor- rhage is somewhat abundant, in consequence of the injected state of the tissues furnishing a copious supply of blood, and their rigid condition preventing re- traction of the vessels ; this, however, may be arrested by a tourniquet or by the pressure of an assistant's fingers, and will soon gradually cease of itself The bone having been freely exposed, it will sometimes be found that tne cloac^B are of sufficient size to allow the ready extraction of ^^q^^^^tmrn- But in the majority of cases, this cannot be done at once, and the apertures must be enlarged, either with the chisel or the trephine, ^^^^^'^^^g f density of the new case, and the amount of room required. Occasionally when two cloaca are close to one another, the intervening b^-^^^fV^^^^^h.rs^.Js conveniently be removed by means of cuttmg forceps, of different shapes (as in Fics. 518, 519, and 520),or by means of a Hey's or a straight narrow saw having a movabl back to stiffen the blade (Fig. 522), and space thus g-- f ^^^^^^^^^ traction of the sequestrum. Very convenient forceps for this purpose aie those