725 LARViVGlTIS. must be remembered that the image thus produced is reversed in the antero- posterior direction, the parts that appear anterior on the mirror being really posterior ; ^vhile in the transverse direction there is no reversal. ^Vhen the Surgeon requires both hands, as in the application of caustics or in the removal of growths or foreign bodies, the patient must be made to hold his own tongue, or it must be held by an assistant. The Surgeon then holds the small mirror in his left hand, and the instrument he is using in the throat in his right. Sometimes all view of the larynx is obscured by the patient obstinately arching the tongue in the mouth. It must then be held down by a spatula. In some patients, the fauces are so irritable that the slightest touch causes violent retching. This may be completely overcome by painting the fauces with a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine about five minutes before the examination is made, or by using a spray of a 4 per cent, solution. If cocaine be not at hand, the irritability may be allayed by sucking ice for a short time. Laryngitis.—Inflammation of the larynx occurs both in adults and in children, though more commonly in the former, from exposure to cold, and \ arious other causes. Laryngitis may not only be of an acute or a chronic kind, but the acute form likewise presents two distinct varieties, according to [he parts affected, the cause from which it arises, and the condition of consti- tution in which it occurs : in one, the true Acute Catarrhal Laryngitis, the inflammation is seated chiefly in the mucous membrane ; in the other, the (Edematous Laryngitis, the affection extends to the submucous areolar tissue, within and around the larynx. In all inflammatory affections of the larynx, whether acute or chronic, there is danger to life ; the narrow chink of the glottis rapidly becomes occluded, and asphyxia consequently results. This may happen either by the swelling of loose folds of mucous membrane about the upper opening of the ,ti:lottis ; from membranous exudation upon the vocal cords ; or by the occur- rence of spasm in the larynx. Indeed, there is usually more or less spasm conjoined with all the acute inflammatory affections of this part; and the spasm, superadded to already existing mechanical occlusion,, is a common cause of death. The spasms do not at first recur oftener than at intervals of half an hour or an hour; but as the disease advances they become more frequent, and in any one of them the patient may be carried off. This freedom from permanent occlusion commonly occurs in cases of laryngitis ; and the immediate cause of death in the majority of instances appears to be spasm, conjoined with defective arterialization of the blood, which causes congestion of the lungs and convulsions. Acute Catarrhal Laryngitis may arise from exposure to cold, from violent strains of the vocal apparatus, or from extension of catarrh from the nose or pharynx. It is most common in adult males, but may occur in '•hildren. One attack predisposes to another. The mucous membrane only lieing affected, the sijmptoms are not indicative of such marked interference with respiration as is met with in the cedematous form of the disease. There are dryness of the throat and hoarseness, with pain varying from mere Uckhng to a severe sense of constriction. Occasionally there 'are pain and tenderness on pressing upon the larynx, more especially about the pomum Vdami. The voice is at first harsh and rough, then stridulous, and finally may be completely lost ; there may be some pain and difficultv in deglutition