576 DISEASES OF THE EAR. complicated instruments sometimes recommended. The liglit must he thrown down it by a concave mirror similar to that used for the larynj/oseope If necessary, the ear must first be carefully • cleaned by syringing and afterwards dried by meons of small pieces of absorbent wool twisted roand the end of a bit of whalebone or wood. The membrane in health is of a bluish-grey colour, and the handle of the malleus can be seen crossincr it from above downwards and slightly baekwards, terminating a little beyond its middle. The membrane is set at an angle of 4;') degrees with the floor of thf meatns ; but owing to its concavity looking outwards, a small triangular part below and slightly in front of the end of the handle of the malleus reflects hack the light to the eye of the observer, and thus appears as a bright spot. The points to be observed in examining the membrane are its degree of opacity, its colour, and degree of vascularity; its curvature, whether too concave, or convex and bulging ; and the presence or absence of perforation. The instrument known as Poliizer's hag is of great value in examining the condition of the Eustachian tube and the middle ear. It consists of a thick india-rubber bag with a blunt nozzle, and is used thus : The nozzle is inserted into one nostril, and both nostrils are then squeezed between the finger and thumb, so as efficiently to close the anterior nares ; the patient then takes a small quantity of water into the mouth and holds it till directed to swallow; at the moment he swallows, the bag is squeezed, and the upper part of the pharynx above the soft palate is thus distended with air, and as at the same time the Eustachian tubes are opened by the act of swallowing, the air rushes into the cavity of the tympanum. While this is being done the Surgeon con- nects his ear with that of the patient by means of an india-rubber tube about three feet in length with an ear-piece at each end. He thus hears distinctly the effect produced by the distension of the cavity of the tympanum. The cavity of the tympanum can usually be distended equally well by Valsalva's method, in which the patient closes the mouth and pinches the nostrils, and then makes a forced effort of expiration. The following are the chief facts learned from this mode of investigation. In health, the Surgeon hears the air enter the tympanum and impinge on the membrane with a sharp chck, sounding to the patient as a loud crack. If the Eustachian tube is closed by swelling or phigged with inspissated pus or mucus also filling the tympanum, this will be entirely wanting. If the cavity is filled with tenacious mucus or muco-purulent fluid, a crackhng bubbling sound will be heard both by the Surgeon and the patient as the air enters the cavity. If the membrane is perforated and the Eustachian tube pervious, the air will be heard passing through the aperture. The Eustachian Catheter is useful in treatment rather than in diagnosis. It consists of a small metal or vulcanite tube about six inches in length with a sHght curve at one end and expanded at the other to receive the nozzle of the small india-rubber bag used for injecting fluid or air. On the large end is' a ring to show the position of the point while it is in the nose. It is thus^ passed : The concavity of the curve being turned towards the floor of the nasal fossa, so that the point may not hitch against the turbinate bones, the cathete is passed backwards through the nose till it touches the posterior wall of the pharynx. It is then withdrawn about half an inch and its point directed out- wards and slightly upwards against the orifice of the Eustachian tube. The Surgeon having his ear connected with that of the patient by the india-rubbe