1278 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. foar hours by a tightly-fitfciDg vulcanite plug. This may be allowed to remain 111 the passage for three or four days, when it is to be replaced by a similarly shaped plug of stout glass, having a central perforation to allow of the escapi of fluid through it. By means of these dilators, which are maintained in pogi tion by tapes fastened over the everted rim, and thence passing upwards it. front and behind to be secured to a waistband, the canal is kep^ patent until it is fully cicatrized. The inevitable tendency to contraction of the newly- made orifice must subsequently be kept within limits by means of a suitable pessary or by the occasional use of dilators, _ An acquired form of atresia is sometimes met with inwhicli partial oblitera- tion of the upper part of the vagina with occlusion of the cervical canal has resulted from cicatrization following injuries inflicted during parturition. The obstruction in such cases may occasionally be overcome by the forcible passage of a uterine sound. Should this prove impossible, a long exploring needle may be introduced through the obstruction into the uterine cavity while the cervix is steadied by the help of a tenaculum ; a fine-bladed tenotomy knife is then cautiously passed upwards into the cervical canal along the needle track, and the obstructing tissues are divided in a radiating manner sufliciently to allow the introduction of a glass cannula, through which the retained blood is allowed to escape. Various discharges connected with the female organs of generation fall nnder the observation of the Surgeon; they may proceed from the mucous membrane covering the external parts, or from that lining the vagina; or, again, from the interior of the cervical canal or of the uterine cavity. When derived from the external organs or the vaginal canal, these discharges are frequently, although not necessarily, of gonorrhoeal origin, and then require to be treated in the way that has been mentioned at p. 1173, Vol. II. TMien of a simple nature, proceeding from mere excessive secretion from the mucous glands of these parts, the use of astringent injections, combined with attention to the general health, will usually succeed in eflPecting a cure. Vaginal discharges of a p'wident character may occur in goung children, as a result of constitutional debility. Occasionally such discharges lead to a suspicion that the child has been improperly tampered with ; and, although they may of course be occasioned by some violence inflicted on the genitals, or may even be actually due to gonorrhoeal infection, it must be borne in mind that in the great majority of instances such symptoms arise solely from constitutional conditions, and are in no way referable to external causes. The Treatment consists in attention to strict cleanliness, the use of warm lead lotions, and improvement of the general health, with removal of any local cause of irritation, such as thread worms from the lower bowel. Discharges dependent upon unhealthy conditions of the cervix and lining membrane of the uterus usually require special treatment, for the details ot which the reader may best refer to works devoted to the Diseases of Women, where a consideration of the nature and management of uterine displacements will also be found. TUMOURS OF THE UTERUS. The so-called Fibroid, or more correctly Fibro-myomatous Growths, ■constitute by far the most common form of uterine tumour. Structurally, they