56 DISEASES OF VEINS. always secondary to the former. The truth probably lies between the two views. A vein may become inflamed as the result of mechanical violence, or of being laid bare in an operation and Rubse(iuently exposed to the contact of decomposing discharges, or by being implicated in unhealthy ulceration of the surrounding structures. Tn other cases diffuse inflammation may spread from a septic wound in the loose areolar tissue surrounding the vein. In all these conditions the phlebitis precedes the thrombosis. The opposite condition may be met with when a vein has been wounded, and its divided end filled with a clot is exposed in a septic wound. The clot then becomes impregnated with septic matter, and fresh coagulation takes place upon its proximal extremity ; septic disintegration of the clot follows, and the coats of the vein become inflamed from the contact of the irritating products of the process. Thus a spreading thrombosis, followed by disintegration of the clot and inflammation of the vein, may be set up. This is a condition frequently met with in py- aemia, and is especially common in the infective inflammation of bone known as acute necrosis. In some cases of pyaamia, thrombosis, with softening of the thrombus and inflammation of the coats of the vein, is met with in parts having no connexion with the original wound. Here also it is only reasonable to suppose that the irritating properties of the thrombus are due to the presence of the infective material in the blood from which it is formed. Simple coagulation of healthy blood in a vein does not cause acute inflamma- tion of the coats of the vessel. After the operation for varix the vein can often be clearly felt on each side of the obliterated spot as a solid cord, but none of the signs of phlebitis are present. The most serious consequence of venous thrombosis is Embolism, or the separation of a clot, and its entry into the circulation. When the formation of the thrombus has been due to mechanical injury, this complication rarely takes place. Occasionally, however, after a surgical operation or parturition, a large clot may be dislodged and cause sudden death by obstructing the pulmonary artery. If the clot is not large enough to obstruct the main trunk of the artery, it may lodge in a smaller branch and recovery may follow. The following is a typical case of this kind. A man, aged 59, had been confined to bed for some weeks with a compound dislocation of the ankle; the wound was nearly healed, and he was apparently in good health. He suddenly awoke from sleep with a violent pain, which seemed to shoot up from his leg to his chest. There was immediately an intense feeling of dyspnoea, although air entered the lungs freely ; the pulse rose to 120, and the action of the heart was violent and irregular. The symptoms gradually subsided, and on the third day after the attack he expectorated a small quantity of blood. Within a few hours of the attack, the symptoms of obstruction of the femoral vein manifested themselves. It was slightly tender, and could be felt as a hard cord, and great oedema of the limb appeared. Some weeks after the veins of the opposite limb became plugged in the same way, but no embolism took place. . -, . ^ , • Embolism is more commonly the result of softening and disintegration o the clot. It is possible that a healthy clot may in this way be removed without giving rise to any definite symptoms. When the softening is due to the septic changes in the thrombus, or when the clot is impregnated with the products of any infective inflammation of any kind, the virulent frag- ments set up inflammation wherever they lodge, giving rise to the form of