HERNIA, happens that the tumour may be so small as M haxm «o« j oocnmncoof the above-mci^tioned Tm .lutein/f^^T"™- the probable nature of the mieehief. See i^I ™! n l r T""" and dragged. The extremities become cold, congested and clammv anH 7h ^ Srusuri/'"' '^^"^ ^"-T'- ^^^^ the^rtltn/Clat' hiccup usually comes on, with sudden cessation of pain in the tumom S ' intermittent pulse, cold sweats, pallor, anxiety, rapid sL ng of the v L1 powers usually with slight delirium ; and death^dily occurs' * wh7?h Symptoms—The symptoms just described are those - which are usually met with in strangulated hernia. They may, however » modified m some important respects. ^ uowever, oe continTita \ Z""' ^''''^'^ " strangulated hernia, the tumour • contmumg soft and lax ; this is especiaUy the case when the hernia contains . the clTn;. r^""''^ ''r'^ strangulated. It may occur also L : the case of double herni^fi on the same side, in consequence of the outer sao being empty, or merely filled with fluid, and the posterior one being protruded against this and strangulated, but its tension being masked by the lax state of tne outer one. 2 Yomiting sometimes does not take place from first to last, there bein? at most a little retching ; at other times the patient vomits once or twice, and then there is no recurrence of this symptom so long as he remains quiet, and keeps the stomach empty ; but, on moving or taking nourishment of any kind even if fluid, it comes on again, and thus the Surgeon may this symptom' should It be necessary from a diagnostic point of view. If opium has been freely administered there may be no vomiting or pain. 3. Extensive peritonitis, with copious effusion of a puriform liquid may occur without any pain, and with but little tenderness and no elevation of temperature ; the anxiety of countenance and sharpness of pulse being the only symptoms that lead to a suspicion of its existence. 4. Death may result from exhaustion consequent on vomiting, Avithout any sign of gangrene in the constricted portion of intestine. Partial Enterocele—In the year 1700 Littre, a celebrated anatomist and surgeon of Montpellier, described a new form of hernia first observed by himself, in which the strangulated portion was a pouch-like projection from the side of the intestine ; the lumen of gut not being completely obstructed. In two of the three cases described by him the strangulated portion was evidently a congenital diverticulum from the ileum. According to F. Treves, who has collected over fifty cases of partial enterocele, including four under his own care, the first accurate description of strangulation of a portion of the circumference of the gut was given by Richter in 1778. He therefore suggests as a distinction that the strangulation of a diverticulum should be termed Littre's hernia and that of a portion of the circumference of the gut, Kichter's, The terms "partial enterocele " and "strangulation of a diverticulum " would, however, be less hkely to lead to confusion. From an analysis of o3 cases