291 REPARATIVE PROCESS IN BONE. the limb becoming rigid, and the tissues much indurated, with sinuses leading down to exposed but attached bone, and thus being a source of constant annoyance and suffering to the patient. During the process of separation of a piece of dead bone and after the abscess first formed has burst, sinuses are left leading to the sequestrum through which pus is constantly discharged. The skin is unaltered in appearance, unless the sequestrum be seated in a superficial bone, when it is usually rigid and often red, smooth and shining. The soft parts surrounding the bone are always more or less indurated. The openings of sinuses leading to dead bone are usually surrounded by an elevated ring of granulation tissue, often thinly covered by epithelium, the orifice presenting a peculiar appearance, which the older Surgeons compared to the cloacal aperture of a fowl. Reparative Process.—The reparative process adopted by nature for the restoration of the integrity of the bone, a portion of which has necrosed, varies according to the extent of the loss of substance. When the outer lamellse alone are necrosed, new bone is deposited by the surrounding periosteum, and the depression that has formed on the surface of the old bone is filled up by granu- lation tissue, which ultimately ossifies. If the whole of the inner lamellse of the shaft die, constituting central necrosis, the outer layers of bone become greatly consolidated and thickened by osseous matter deposited from the periosteum ; in which, in the majority of cases, the circular or oval apertures termed Gloaccc are left for the escape of pus and the ultimate extrusion of the sequestrum (Fig. 515). In cases of "necrosis without suppuration " (p. 289), how- ever, no cloacae form, the dead bone continuing to be encased in the thickened outer layers. When the whole of a shaft dies, the reproduction takes place from various sources, principally from the periosteum, which is, indeed, essentially the organ of reproduction of bone ; this becomes thickened and vascular. That the periosteum takes the principal share in the reproduction is evident from the fact that, where it is deficient or has been destroyed, apertures are left in the case of new bone ; and if it be removed altogether, osseous tissue is either not formed at all, or most sparingly by the contiguous old bone, or by the epiphyses. The soft tissues, also, of the limb generally, if thick, as m the thigh, contribute to the formation of granulation tissue, which gradually ossifies and so tends to strengthen the new case ; and, lastly, the articular ends of the old bone still preserving their vitality, constitute most important agents Lt s ^Tr'- ^'T^°^ consolidated firmly to the new shaft tnat IS formed. The importance of the periosteum as the or^an of generation of bone after the removal of the osseous structures, whether aemonstrated by Oilier of Lyons. This sm-geon has shown by many ine-enious Ze TsTih^' " reproduction of a whole C Zj Z place, as in the case of the radius in rabbits and pigeons, after it has been V 2 Fig. 515. — Central Necrosis. New Bone with Cloaca-; included Sequestrum.