DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 444 DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. Nothmg further need be said here concerning most of the various diseases to which the knee is hable. Acute synovitis, acute arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and Charcot's disease are relatively so common in the knee that our knowledge of their clinical and pathological features is largely derived from a study of them in this articulation. Certain special considerations are, however necessary relative to tuberculous disease. Tuberculous Disease of the Knee-joint.—The knee is more commonly the seat of tuberculons disease than any other joint in the body, excepting perhaps the hip. To the disease of this joint the name of " white swelling " was first applied, and in many respects it stands as the type of tuberculous joint affections in general. In young adults the cases of primary synovial disease equal, if they do not exceed, in number those in which the joint is infected from a primary osseous deposit. The statistics of Willemer, Konig, and Cheyne, show, however, that as age advances the proportion alters, primary synovial disease becoming much more rare. Cheyne finds that in cases commencing as a tuberculous bone deposit, this most often occurs in the lower epiphysis of the femur, especially in the internal condyle ; next in frequency in the head of the tibia, and most rarely in the patella. Kocher has described a variety of the disease Avhich he believes commences in one of the semilunar fibro-cartilages, but it seems more probable that the actual starting-point is the adjacent synovial membrane or bone, with rapid invasion of the cartilage. The symptoms and diagnosis have already been sufficiently discussed in a previous chapter (p. 348). In the Treatment of a case of tuberculous disease of the knee, perfect rest of the joint from the earliest stage is essential; without this there is no hope j of cure. If the knee is already flexed it may be necessary to overcome this gradually by a weight extension. Whatever kind of sphnt is applied it should extend from the fold of the nates to the toes, and during the first few weeks of the treatment the limb should be kept in a horizontal position. The sphnt may conveniently be made of leather or plaster of Paris. In applying plaster | of Paris to such a case two long strips of household flannel should be cut i sufficiently long to reach along the back of the limb from the fold of the nates to the heel and thence along the sole, and broad enough to extend two-thirds round the limb. The outer strip is completely soaked in thin plaster cream and the inner strip smeared with the cream on its outer surface only. The two strips are placed one on the other and quickly applied to the hmb with a roller bandage. As soon as the acute symptoms have subsided, the patient may be allowed to get about with crutches, and w^earing a patten or high- heeled boot on the sound foot so as to raise the foot of the affected hmb from the ground. The most efficient apparatus at this time, and one which can be used from the first, is a Thomas's knee splint (Fig. 583). This has the additional advantage of leaving the joint exposed so that the efi'ects of the treatment can be observed. The apparatus consists of a well-padded iron ring, covered with leather, from which an iron I'od extends downwards on each side of the leg, terminating in a second ring at the lower end. In ordinary cases in which the limb is tolerably straight the apparatus is thus applied :—The splint must be of such