DISEASES OF THE FOOT 468 as this bone is connected in front Avith tlie large tarsal synovial raenibraue, and posteriorly with that which is common to the calcaneo-astragalar and astragalo-scaphoid articulations, the greater part of the tarsus is apt to become speedily involved (Fig. 598). The extent of this implication is such, that excision of the primarily diseased bone would probably seldom be attended with much benefit, and Chopart's amputation or disarticulation at the ankle-joint becomes necessary. Next to disease of the astragalus, I look upon tuberculous inflammation and caries of the scaphoid as most destructive to the integrity of the foot. When the Cuneiform Bones are the seat of caries, it will generally be found that the middle is the bone primarily affected. Thence the disease extends to the lateral ones, or to the bases of the; second and third metatarsal bones (Fig. 599). In such cases the anterior tarsal synovial membrane usually becomes extensively implicated, and Chopart's amputation will be required. But if the disease continue to be limited to the middle cuneiform and the contiguous metatarsal bones, and the patient's general health be good, removal of the affected osseous structures by the gouge, with extraction of the carious cuneiform, may be attended with satisfactory results. Excision of more than one of the Tarsal Bones is sometimes required in chronic disease, and may leave an excellent limb. Xo formal rules for the operation can be laid down ; the course of proceeding must depend on the nature of the case and the judgment of the Surgeon. In a lad who was many years since under my care with very extensive disease of these parts, I removed the lower three inches of the fibula, and gouged away considerable portions of the end of the tibia and of the astragalus, calcaneum, and cuboid—removing a whole handful of carious bone ; yet a perfect cure resulted, the patient recovering with a strong and useful foot. The os calcis with the astragalus was successfully removed by T. Wakley in 1848, and by Watson of Edinburgh ; and the os calcis, almost the whole astragalus, and a part of the scaphoid, by Mcholls of Chelmsford. Mulvany, in a case of disease of the tarsus consequent on compound dislocation, removed the greater part of the scaphoid, hilf the OS calcis, all the astragalus, and the lower end of the tibia. Fayrer removed the articular ends of the tibia and fibula, the os calcis, astragalus, and scaphoid for disease, in a boy 9 years old ; and Lehmann of Polzin, in a case of caries in a man aged 40, removed by subperiosteal excision the entire OS calcis, the astragalus, and the scaphoid bones, the foot having a perfectly normal appearance three months after the operation, and the patient being able to walk well, without a stick. In infants and very young children, disease of the tarsal articulations and even bones may often be recovered from, without the necessity of having recourse to operation, by attention to the child's general health, and by giving the part rest. In cases of disease of the Metatarsal Bones, treatment by scraping is often successful, but amputation is not uncommonly required. This is more particu- larly the case with the first and the fifth (Vol. I., p. 114). The middle metatarsal bones cannot advantageously be taken away, leaving merely the first and last ; but the two, three, or even the whole four of the external metatarsal bones may be resected in early life, and a useful foot left. Aston Key has recorded a case in which, in consequence of iujury, he removed the four outer metatarsal bones, the cuboid, and the external and middle