SUIiGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. lO the edges raised and everted, and often papillary in structure (Fig. 410). The discharge is thin and scanty, and unless the sore is treated by antiseptic appli- cations it becomes horribly offensive. Under the name of " craterifonn ulcer " Hutchinson has described an acute form of squamous carcinoma, occurring on the face in positions similar to those in which rodent ulcer is common. The disease begins as a red firm tubercle, which rapidly forms an elevated mass, the summit of which breaks down into a crater-like cavity. There has been no glandular enlargement in the recorded cases. In a typical case, figured by Hutchinson in the first volume of his Archives of Surgery, the disease affects the left upper eyelid ; a similar tumour of the opposite eyelid had been removed two years previously and no local recurrence had occurred. Rodent Ulcer, Noli-me-tangere, or Can- croid was formerly included under lupus exe- dens. It is a remarkable affection presenting the most unmistakeable local malignancy, but never giving rise to secondary disease, even in the neighbouring lymphatic glands. The disease consists essentially of a malignant growth of very feeble vitality and slight activity of development. This invades the surrounding structures and destroys them, and in its turn breaks down, disintegrates, and is thrown off, thus causing a progressive destruc- tion of tissue. The disease is especially cha- racterized by its slow progress, by its eroding nature, and by the impossibility of healing it by all ordinary methods of treatment. It is a disease of advanced age, seldom beginning be- fore 45 or 50. Its duration is in any given case indefinite ; seldom less than five or six Fig. 416.—Squamous Carcinoma of Leg. years. Occasionally extending to twenty or thirty. It affects individuals of either sex indiscrimin- ately ; and usually occurs in persons who are otherwise perfectly healthy. The health also is not influenced materially, if at all, by its long duration. I have seen persons, who have suffered from it for more than twenty years, in apparently robust health ; but it is often eventually fatal by gradual ex- haustion from the discharge or by penetrating to the membranes of the bram, unless removed by operation. . _ . v i. It always commences in the skin, usually on healthy integument; but occasionally it primarily affects a part which is the seat of some chrome change of structure, as a mole, a wart, or a scar. It may attack any part of the head, face, or extremities. The face is its seat of election, especially in the upper parts, such as the forehead, the side of the nose, the inner angle of the eye or the temple. It spreads simply by continuity of tissue, never by disseminated local or secondary growths. It may invade all tissues : the skin pnmarily, the cartilage of the ear, the al^ and septum of the nose, the parotid gland, the conjunctiva and the eye-ball. It eats away bone, and may penetrate to the dura mater, and invade the brain. It progresses, however, by