SYMPTOMS OF INTRATHORACIC ANEURISM. i55 posterior rather than the anterior aspect of the vessel is the seat of disease, in min is of two distinct kinds. The first kind is lancinating, intermittent and neuralgic in its character, evidently dependent upon pressure on adjacent nerves THiis pain is seated chiefly on the left side, and shoots up the side of the head and face, down the arm to the elbow, along the intercosto-humeral nerve through the chest, or between the scapula. The second form of pam occurs usually at a later stage of the disease, is continuous, and of a boring, or burning character. It seems to depend upon the perforation of the tissues, more especially the bones, and occurs chiefly on the right side of the chest. . . . 2. Dyspnoea is of very frequent occurrence m intrathoracic aneurism ; m all"probability it is more uniformly met with than any other single symptom, tit may arise from five distinct con- ditions, and its characters vary with jits cause. j a. Fi-om direct pressure on the Urachea. In these cases the dyspnoea iis attended with much wheezing icough, and often with whistling sounds in the chest and tubular respiration, and with slow expansion of that cavity. There is usually expectoration of thick tenacious \ mucus. The character of the voice is unchanged. The tracheal stridor and the voice sound are heard with re- markable distinctness on applying the stethoscope over the upper dorsal vertebrte—the sound being conducted through the bones. /3. From direct pressure on a bronchus (Fig. 469). In these cases ' there are wheezing cough, and I some degree of expectoration, I with perhaps diminished respi- i ratory murmur on the side affected, and puerile respiration in the opposite lung, as was pointed out by Stokes. y. From pressure upon the lung. In these cases the respiration is compara- tively little interfered with, the spongy tissue of the lung accommodating , itself and yielding to the pressure of the tumour. After a time the lung ■ tissue will become incorporated with the wall of the sac ; and then more serious difiiculty in breathing, with hsemoptysis, will supervene. S. Dyspnoea is very commonly induced by irritation, compression, or stretch- \ ing of the left pneumogasii'ic and recurrent largngeal nerves, by the pressure of I the tumour. In these cases the muscles that are supplied by the left recurrent laryngeal nerve may be paralysed, whilst in some cases spasm, accompanied by urgent dyspnoea, occurs from irritation of the nerve before it is pressed upon sufficiently to cause paralysis. If all the muscles supplied by one recurrent laryngeal nerve are paralysed Pig. ■4li9'.—Aneurism of Arcli of Aorta, of the size of an almond, springing from below left Subclavian Artery, and bursting into left Bronclms.