ACUTE ARTHRITIS: TREATMENT. 341 much more certain and successfnl results than any other form of connter- irritation with which I am acquainted. The patient having been anaesthetized, a cauterizino-iron, heated to a black-red heat, should be rapidly drawn over the diseased articulation in a series of parallel lines, across which an equal number of cross-bars are again drawn, without destroying the whole thick- ness of the true skin. A good deal of inflammation is thus set up, followed by slight suppuration. When this has subsided, the application of the cautery may, if necessary, be repeated; in this way, tlie deep gnawing pain will usually be removed, and suppuration of the joint may be averted. For counter-irritants to be of any use, they must be emjoloyed before suppuration has set in ; it is only torturing the patient unnecessarily to have recourse to these agents when once pus has formed in the articulation. In order that full benefit should be derived from this plan of treatment, it must be per- severed in steadily for a considerable length of time. The diet must consist chiefly of liquid nourishment during the acute febrile stage, but good food and stimulants will become necessary in proportion to the increase of the debility. As the inflammation about the joint subsides, a tonic plan of treatment should be adopted. During the subacute stage, if it be thought necessary to apply counter- irritation, absolute rest of the joints of the lower limb may be obtained, without confining the patient to bed, by the use of Thomas's hip or knee sphnt. (See Diseases of the Hip and Knee.) If it be thought unnecessary to apply any counter-irritation, the inflamed joint may be efliciently steadied by the application of the starch or plaster bandage, the patient then being allowed to move about on crutches or in a chair. In disease of the joints of the foot, the patient may walk with the bent knee resting on a wooden pin leg. ■ With respect to the local treatment of the inflamed joint in the later stages of the disease when it has assumed a chronic form, it may be stated generally that so long as it is tender on pressure applied perpendicularly or laterally, so long as there is any loosening of the ligaments, or pain induced by movement, it must be kept absolutely at rest in splints, or by a starch or plaster bandage. During this period great care must be taken to keep the joint in the position which will be most useful to the patient, should it become stiff—the straight one for the knee and hip, and the semiflexed for the elbow. In many cases it may be useful to strap the joint firmly, in the way recommended by Scott. This plan of treatment consists in spreading on pieces of lint the strong mercurial ointment, to every ounce of which a drachm of camphor has been added ; strips of soap-plaster spread upon leather are then cut of a proper length and breadth, and the joint is firmly and accurately strapped up, the limb having previously been bandaged as high as the joint that is strapped. This dressing may be left on for a week or two, until it becomes loose or gives rise to irrita- tion ; over the whole a starched bandage may be applied. In many cases I have found it advantageous to strap up the joint wdth a plaster composed of equal parts of the emplastrum ammoniaci cum hydrargyro, and the emplastrum saponis or belladonnie. These applications not only fix the joint and promote the absorption of the inflammatory products within and around it, but by acting as gentle counter-irritants, remove the remains of the inflammation that may be going on within it. If recovery have left the joint stiffened without being actually ankylosed, the natural movement must be restored by warm bathing, fomentation, friction, and passive motion. Warm water, in any way