1264 -DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. OPE3RA.TION OF CASTRATION. This operation may be required for the various non-malignant affections of the testicle that have resisted ordinary constitutional and local treatment L have become sources of great annoyance and discomfort to the patient • in h early forms of malignant disease, also, it may advantageously be practised Before the opemtion he parts should be thoroughly shaved, the skin cleans d and a carbolized towel applied for two or three hours. The patient should lying on his back on a suitable table, and the parts around the seat of th. incision should be covered with towels wrung out in 1 in 20 carbolic lotici ihe Surgeon should stand on the same side as the testicle to be removed and should grasp it at its posterior part with his left hand, in order to make the scrotum m front of it tense. The incision should extend from the external abdominal ring to the lower end of the scrotum. If the operation is bein.. performed for malignant disease the incision will have to be extended upward^ m order that the inguinal canal may be opened and the cord reached at as high a level as possible. If the disease, as often occurs in tuberculous cases has involved the skin, the affected part must be included between two curved incisions, meeting above and below at the points already indicated. By a few touches with a broad-bladed scalpel, whilst the skin is kept upon the stretch, the tumour is separated from its scrotal attachments, and left connected merely by the cord, which must then be divided. In some cases it will be found advantageous to expose and divide the cord in the first instance before dissecting out the tumour from the scrotum, as in this way a better command over it is obtained. The divismi of the cord constitutes the most important part of the operation, for, unless care be taken, it may retract into the inguinal canal and bleed freely. This accident is best prevented by separating the cord cleanly from the sheath—more especially the cremasteric fascia—and seizing it with clamp forceps above the point at which the ligature is to be applied. The simplest method of ligature consists in transfixing the cord with an aneurysm needle and tying the two halves separately with stout silk, the ends of which are for the present left long. The cord is next divided about half an inch below the hgatures, and it is then allowed to retract slightly, in order to make sure that the ligatures are efficiently applied and that bleeding is not being prevented merely by traction. If no oozing takes place from the stump it is drawn gently down into view and the ends of the ligatures cut off". Another method consists in picking up the vessels separately in forci- pressure forceps, and applying a fine ligature to each. The veins must be tied as well as the arteries. The arteries requiring ligature are usually the spermatic, the cremasteric, and the artery of the vas. The spermatic artery will be found in front, and the artery of the vas deferens behind. This method, which is far more tedious than simple transfixion, has been supposed to be followed by less pain than when the nerves of the cord are included in the ligature. I have not, however, found that much pain is complained of after the ligature en masse, and in castration for malignant disease this method certainly has the advantage that it allows the Surgeon to divide the cord at a higher level than he would otherwise do, especially if the incision be prolonged upwards and outwards, and the inguinal canal opened. In castration for tuberculous disease it is better to separate the vas deferens i