GABIES OF SPINE: TREATMENT. 491 The gravity of the prognosis is increased when symptoms of slow compres- I sio^offre cord set n! but not to the extent that might have been supposed. ^ Tve^y tgr^lrorti^^^ of the cases recover even after complete paralysis or die from causes unconnected with the pressure of the cord. Caries of the spine is more fatal in adults than in ch.ldi'en. _ In tho e rare cases in which it commences after middle life it is almost ^^^.^^'^bly fatal TEEATMENT.-The first principle in the treatment of caries ot the spme is to take off the weight of the part of the body above the ^^^f at the same time to fix the vertebral column so as to prevent thefnction o the diseased surfaces against each other and to encourage recovery by ankylos s This object may be attained by two methods : 1, the maintenance of rest in the horizontal position, and, 2, the application of some mechanical apparatus These methods cannot be employed indiscriminately ; one will be more suitable than another at different ages, in different stages of the disease, or according as it affects different portions of the column. Whatever method of securing rest be chosen no time must be lost in adopting it as soon as the existence ot the disease is recognised. ^ . -, i. • Treatment by the recumbent position is very efficacious and except m young children should be the general plan adopted in the earUer stages of the disease. When practicable the patient may be laid on a properly constructed prone couch. The prone position is certainly preferable to the supine ; for not only is the projecting angle formed by the excurvated spme not injuriously compressed, as it would be in the supine or lateral position, but the patient is more comfortable. At the same time, the back not being the lowest part of the body, there is less tendency to congestion of the diseased parts. Opinion differs amongst Surgeons as to the value of extension in the treat- ment of spinal caries. To employ this treatment with any idea that the curvature can be diminished by separation of the diseased vertebrae is obviously erroneous and harmful, but gentle extension is undoubtedly serviceable as a means of diminishing the irritation which results from the pressure of the diseased bones together by the tonic contraction of the muscles (p. 351). Extension thus employed is a valuable adjunct to complete rest in the recum- bent position, especially in early acute cases and when any symptoms of com- pression of the spinal cord are present. In applying extension the head is secured to the upper part of the bed by soft straps passing beneath the chin and occiput, and a weight is attached to the lower hmbs by means of strapping as in the treatment of hip-joint disease. Formerly the patient was kept in the recumbent position for many months, seldom less than twelve or eighteen, till all the acute symptoms had disappeared. Since the introduction of the treatment by the plaster jacket immediately to be described, this is no longer .necessary. If the symptoms are very acute, the prone couch maybe used for a short time, but as soon as possible the plaster jacket should be applied and the patient allowed to move about. Treatment by Mechanical Support.—The most efficient of all means of treating caries of the lower dorsal and lumbar regions of the spine is the application of the plaster of Paris jacket as recommended by Sayre of New York. The following is a brief summary of the details of this method. The patient being stripped to the waist, a thin closely woven vest without sleeves is drawn over the body. It must be stretched so as to lie perfectly smooth, and may be kept from wrinkling by a piece of bandage passing