OPEUATIONS ON THE AIli-TUHE. a current of warm air mixed with tlie steam, thus efficiently mai.itainin? ventilation as well as warmth and moisture. By its means the temperature can be easily reo-iilated, so that there is little risk of weakening the child bv over-heating. 2. Tim lulw- musi Iw kepi clean by ft-eqnently removing the inner part and washing it witli warm water and cleaning the inside with a feather. If it is caked inside with dried mucus, this will rcHdily be removed by a solution of carbonate of soda. After the fourth day the outer tube also may be removed and cleaned once every twenty-four hours. The patient must be constantly watched day and night, and any mucus that appears at the orifice of the tube during efforts at coughing must be wiped away with a sponge. ?>. To hasten the separation of the membrane and to prevent its extension various • substances may be administered by inhalation. Carbolic acid, creasote and eucalyptus oil may be given by adding a few drops to the water in the kettle, from which the steam is being supplied. Quinine may be administered by- raeans of a spray from a Siegle's apparatus, the solution used containing about four grains to the ounce. Solvents may be used in the same way to soften the ■< membrane : the best of these is carbonate of soda (gr. xx. to 3]'.). Lactic acid also has been recommended, but it does not seem to be superior to the soda . solution. These substances in spray may be used every two or three hours, the child being wrapped in a mackintosh cloth at the time to avoid wetting : the clothes. R. W. Parker, believing that in all cases of membranous laryngitis ■ the disease is at first local, and that the general symptoms are due to the absorption of the unhealthy products of the local process, insists very strongly on the necessity of clearing these away both at the time of the operation and afterwards. Before inserting the tube he recommends that the incision in the trachea should be held open with hooks or a dilator, while all membrane within reach is removed by means of a feather which has previously been j soaked in a solution of carbonate of soda. In order to clear the larynx the . feather may be passed upwards into the mouth. This apparently severe treat- • ment has in his hands proved very successful, no fewer than 8 out of 16 cases • thus treated having recovered. The feeding of the patient must not be neglected, even if considerable persuasion be necessary to make the child swallow. Food should be given 1 about every two hours, and soft solids will often be taken more easily than 1 liquids. 4. The removal of the tahe should always be accomi)lished as soon as • possible. It is often difficult to determine when this can be done safely. . Many tubes are made with an opening at the upper part, so that the patency of the glottis can be ascertained by placing the finger over the external opening, and observing the effect. The return of the voice, more or less perfectly, when the opening is closed, is usually a sign that the tube may safely be removed. Difficulty in establishing natural respiration after Tracheotomy.— In rare cases it is found impossible to dispense with the tracheotomy tube on account of the occurrence of laryngeal obstruction either at once or after an interval. Cases of this kind may be divided into two classes ; those in which the obstruction is due to spasm or paralysis of the larynx, and those in which there is actual mechanical obstruction. It sometimes happens that the passage of air through the larynx, alter a tube has been worn for some time, causes spasm of the glottis, which may threaten suffocation. This cause may