1286 DISEASES OF THE FEMALE GENERATIVE OIWANS. invaded throii<i:h e.xteimion of tlio ^rowLli to tlie vafjinal vault, no radical interference can be undertaken, and the affection proves rapidly fatal. Sarcoma is a comparatively rare disease of the hodij of the uterus. It is met with in middle-aged women, either as a difl'used aifection of the mucous lining of the cavity, or as circumscribed growths in the substance of the uterine wall—in either case tending to form compound polypoidal massesof greyish-white colour and pulpy consistence. Tlie ]>rognosis is always unfavourable, although the course of the disease is less rapid than that of true cancer. The removarof the intra-uterine growths after dilatation of the cervix, whether undertaken for diagnostic purposes or as a palliative method of treatment, should be followed by the ap])lication of strong iodine solution to the interior of the cavity. The only radical measure to be adopted in these cases is that of total extirpation of the uterus. TUMOURS OF THE OVARY. For cb'nical purposes, ovarian tumours may be broadly classed in two main groups. The first of these—including those growths in which cyst-development predominates—can be subdivided as follows : 1. Ordinary multilocular ovarian cysts, containing glairy fluid of a highly albuminous nature ; 2. Multilocular cysts, with colloid (jelly-like) contents ; 3. Dermoid cysts, containing seba- ceous and fatty material, with hair growing from patches of true skin, bony plates, teeth, &c. ; 4. Papillomatous cysts filled with thin, watery, non-albu- minous fluid, and showing more or less extensive patches of warty growth (papilloma) on the inner surface of the cyst wall. The second group above referred to, consisting of the solid tumours, includes—1. Fibroma ; 2. Sar- coma ; 3. Carcinoma. Of the growths here enumerated, those included in the first group constitute the large majority of ovarian tumours, the ordinary multilocular cyst being by far the most common form ; the three next-named varieties occur much less frequently. The solid growths, named in the second group, are comparatively rare. Tumours of the ovary may develop at almost any age, being occasionally met with in quite young children, and not very uncommonly in women who have long passed the menopause ; but the largest proportion of cases occur between the ages of twenty and fifty. One or both ovaries may be affected. If uninterfered with, the disease invariably proves fatal after a shorter or longer interval, usually within two or three years from the first development of an abdominal tumour, death occurring from gradual exhaustion due to inter- ference with the functions of neighbouring viscera. But, in the great majority of instances, an earlier fatal termination is liable to result from some inter- current complication or accident—such as rotation of the pedicle, inflammation of the cyst, rupture of its wall, &c., conditions which unless promptly dealt with, must inevitably hasten the patient's death. Diagnosis.—The diflerential diagnosis of ovarian tumours from the numerous abdominal enlargements which may simulate them, is too extensive a subject to be treated of here. The following may, however, be enumerated as conditions possibly requiring elimination before a definite diagnosis of ovarian disease can be arrived at : 1. Obesity, oedema of the abdominal wall, tonic spasm of the recti muscles with hysterical tympanites (phantom tumour).