933 RESECTION OF INTESTINE. tion has been performed by himself and others with great success. The operation is justifiable only in those cases in which there is good reason for believing the appendix to be at fault. This is best proved by the detection of the enlarged appendix during or between the attacks ; the latter are severe, often frequently repeated, and occur independently of constipation or other conditions which favour the recurrence of attacks of simple typhlitis. The pathological condition which has been met with in those cases has been described at page 929. The operation for removal of the appendix should be undertaken only after all the symptoms of an attack have passed away. The procedure is often very difficult on account of the existence of firm adhesions. Treves recommends that the appendix be removed about half an inch from the cascum, and that the mucous membrane be united by many fine sutures or a continuous one, and the outer walls by a second row. EEMOVAL OF POKTIONS OF THE INTESTINE. Enterectomy, or the excision of a portion of the small intestine for disease, is said to have first been performed by Ramdohr in 1727. Colectomy, or removal of a portion of the large intestine, was first practised by Reybard in 1833 ; three inches of the colon were excised, the divided ends united by suture, and the patient recovered. In 1836 Dieffenbach removed a gan- grenous portion of the intestine, and sutured the ends of the gut successfully in a case of strangulated hernia. Excision of a portion of the intestine remained one of the curiosities of surgery till within recent years, during which it has frequently been performed in this country and abroad. Among the most important conditions for which resection of a portion of intestine may be required are : 1. For gangrene or ulceration, especially when resultmg from strangulated hernia; 2. For ruptures or wounds of the intestine which are too extensive or in other ways unfavourable for a simple suture ; 3. For the cure of artificial anus; 4. For irreducible intussusception; -■>. For stricture of the intestine resulting from previous ulceration or the presence of a malignant growth. The question of the advisability of perform- mg resection in the first four of the above conditions has already been discussed, but it is necessary here to consider the chief points concerning resection for stricture, especially of a malignant character. As malignant stricture almost invariably afi-ects the large intestine, colectomy is the opera- tion required, and has to be considered in relation with the alternative measures of colotomy and intestinal anastomosis (p. 919). If symptoms of intestinal obstruction are already present, the time is very unfavourable for resection, and colotomy should be practised. If, however, the condition of the patient will allow, the extent of the disease should be ascertained by au ■exploratory laparotomy. Should it be found of limited extent, and apparently uncomplicated by glandular enlargement, resection may be performed ; but if the extent of the disease renders this impossible, intestinal anastomosis (p. 924) IS an available method of treatment. Stricture of the small intestine simple or malignant, is rare, but should such a case be met with uncomphcated by :actual obstruction, resection should be practised. It thus appears that com- paratively few cases occur in which excision of a strictured portion of the bowel IS practicable, and when the disease is carcinomatous the chances of cure are small. In 188<) Kendal Franks collected 51 cases, including two of his own