DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. 1212 URINARY VAGINAL FISTULiE. Fistulous communications between the urinary passages and thp v«,.- commonly arise from sloughing produced by longiSd presLe u.o^^^^ Vesico-vaginal fistula are the more common ; they are usually situat.^ high up m the vagina, communicating with the base o^f the b addl S may be very minute or may form a large gaping orifice " ^ Urethrovaginal fistulas, occurring between the urethra and the va-ina ar- usually of small size, and linear. ° ^' Results—The existence of a urinary fistula is always a source of the greatest discomfort o the patient. The dribbling of urine, usually continu but occasionally intermittent, when the opening is near the fundus of the bladder, gives rise to irritation and excoriation about the external parts and causes a penetrating ammoniacal odour to hang about the patient 'tIib precise seat and extent of the opening can be determined in the case of lar^e istute by digital examination, combined with the passage of a sound into the bladder. In the case of small perforations or those high up, careful examina- tion should be made with Sims's duck-bill speculum and retractors, the patient bemg placed m the semiprone or genu-pectoral position. It is often useful to draw down and fix the cervix during the examination. In doubtful cases the injection of milk into the bladder wiU determine the presence or absence of a fistula. Treatment.—When the fistula is recent, very small, and especially if urethro-vaginal, it may be closed in a few cases by touching it with the Pigs. 931 and 932.—Kjiives for Paring the Edges in Vesico-Vaginal Fistula. galvano-cautery. When it is large, however, its cure can be accomplished only by paring the edges and bringing them together with sutures. Before the operation the bowels should be freely opened by castor-oil and by an enema. It is of the greatest importance that the field of operation should be properly exposed and well illuminated, and for this purpose preliminary dilatation of the vagina is often required. A large but short Fergusson speculum is a useful addition to the duck-bill specula and retractors usually employed. The patient may be placed in the dorsal, lateral prone, or genu-pectoral position, whichever is the most convenient. The edges of the aperture are now to be freely pared. This is best done by seizing them with a hook-forceps or a double hook, and dissecting off the vaginal mucous membrane to the extent of about a quarter of an inch all round, by means of a fine small scalpel or angularly