39 LYMPHANGITIS. of the deeper lymphatic vessels and their obstruction by the inflammauon. Along the course of the inflamed lymphatics, erysipelatous-looking patches not unfrequently appear, and coalesce until they acquire a considerable size, and constitute as it were a distinct variety of erysipelas. In some cases the glands are affected before any other local signs manifest themselves, owing probably I o the deeper-seated lymphatics having been first implicated ; or possibly to the direct absorption of, and deposit in them of, some infective matter that consti- tutes the primary source of the inflammation. Not uncommonly through- out the disease the inflammation continues to be confined principally to this set of vessels, giving rise to great and brawny swelHng of the limb, but without much if any superficial redness. The constitutional disturbance which is at first of the active inflammatory type, may gradually subside into the asthenic form. Results.—The disease usually terminates in resolution at the end of eight or ten days. In other cases, localized suppuration may take place, sometimes in the form of one large deep-seated abscess in the iliac fopsa or in the thigh if the lower extremity, or under the pectorals and in the axilla if the upper extremity be the seat of irritation; or a chain of abscesses may form along the course of the inflamed lymphatics and in the glands to which they lead. In some instances, after the disappearance of the disease, a state of chronic and. rather solid oedema of the part may be left, giving rise indeed to a species of false hypertrophy, and constituting a troublesome consequence. More rarely death results, either fi'om general blood-poisoning, or as the effect of exhaustion from prolonged suppuration of deep-seated abscesses. The Diagnosis of inflammation of the lymphatics has to be made in its early stages from phlebitis and erysipelas, and of the abscesses in later stages irom those of pyaemia. From phlebitis it is easily distinguished by the super- ficial redness of lymphangitis, and the absence of the cord-like plugged vein From erysipelas it is distinguished by the want of a defined margin to the red^ ness, and by its extending in the line of the lymphatic vessels only ; but the affection in some cases is closely allied to erysipelas, and consequently the distinction may be of Httle consequence. The acute lymphatic abscess is usually distinguished without diflicalty from the pya^mic : the lymphatic abscess being, if deep, solitary ; if superficial and multiple, confined to the track of the previously inflamed absorbents ; in either case being always between the starting-point of the primary source of irritation, or wound, and the glands—in the calf, thigh, or iliac fossa, if the primary irritation be in the lower extremity ; in the axilla if in the upper. The fever is moreover more continued, aud the severe rigors and sweatings of pygemia are wanting. Treatment.—It is of the first importance that any focus of suppuration, such as a whitlow, to which the lymphangitis is secondary, be properly treated. In superficial lymphatic inflammation of the skin, the apphcation of belladonna, as recommended by Christopher Heath, is the most efficient agent in subduing the local process ; a paste of equal parts of the extract and of glycerine should be thickly smeared over all the inflamed parts, and covered with a thick layer of cotton-wool or a flannel fomentation ; the limb at the same time being kept elevated. As an alternative treatment, though of inferior value, hot poppy fomentations may be used. If after the acute inflammation has been subdued much chronic induration and oedema occur, the use of an elastic bandage and methodical friction will be of service. If abscesses form, they should be