RESULTS OF LIGATURE OF THE SUBCLAVIAN. 207 One principal danger in ligaturing the subclavian artery at any point above the first rib, certainly arises from interference with the fascia which lies between it and the soaleni, separating it from the pleura. This fascia is con- tinuous with the areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinum, being indeed the deep portion of the ascending layer of what Astley Cooper described as the " thoracic fascia," which helps to form the superior boundary of the chest, being continuous in the neck with the deep cervical fascia. After the deeper layers of the cervical fascia have been opened, this fine areolar tissue presents itself ; and, if septic inflammation follow, it will readily extend by continuity of tissue into the anterior mediastinum, invading ultimately the pleura and pericardium. Hence, whenever it is practicable, the Surgeon should keep the point of the needle close to that part of the artery which lies upon the first rib, as there is less risk here of opening into the deep areolar tissue of the neck. Results of Ligature of the Subclavian.—The general results of ligature of the subclavian in the third part of its course for spontaneous aneurism in the axillary are by no means satisfactory. Thus of 48 cases of aneurism of the axillary artery, not dependent upon any external wound, in which the artery was ligatured above the clavicle, I found 23 cures against 25 deaths. This result was so unfavourable, and so different, indeed, from what I anticipated, that I was led to analyse carefully the causes of death. I found them as follows ;— Inflammation within the chest, &c 10 cases. Suppuration of the sac . . . . . • . • 6 „ Suppurative phlebitis 1 » Hsemorrhage . . . . . . . . . . 3 „ • Gangrene of hand and arm 1 » Gangrene of both arms and legs 1 » Not stated n 25 „ Inflammation of the Contents of the Thorax proved fatal in 10 out of 48 cases, or 1 in 4-8, and is the most frequent cause of death, though not, I believe, the most frequent untoward complication of this operation. It might at first be supposed that the pulmonary complications were due to pyaemia, but, on closer examination, it will be found that this is not the case. Inflammation, when attacking the contents of the thorax after ligature of this artery for axillary aneurism, does not commence in the substance of the lung as in pysemia, but most commonly affects primarily the pleura and pericardium. It would appear probable, therefore, that it arose from causes that are essentially con- nected either with this operation or with the aneurism itself. These are referable to three heads :— 1. Septic inflammation of the deep areolar tissue at the root of the neck may extend to the anterior mediastinum, the pleura, and pericardium. This would appear to have been the cause of death in a patient in whom Key tied the subclavian. 2. The sac may, by its pressure inwards, encroach upon and give rise to inflammation of that portion of the pleura which corresponds to its inner aspect. This occurred in a case in which Mayo of Winchester operated, and IS more likely to happen if suppuration have taken place in the sac. When