EFFECTS ON BRAIN OF LIGATURE OF CAROTID. 17S instance, it usually occurs before the healing of the wound, especially if union by first intention is not obtained ; in the second, it may happen at a con- siderably later period, even after many weeks. In a case under the care of H Morris, suppuration took place round the sac fifteen weeks after ligature of the main trunk. Pus was let out by an incision, after which the tumour rapidly increased with return of pulsation. The aneurism was then laid open. It was found to have sprung from the external carotid, and the recurrent stream of blood was derived entirely from the branches of that vessel. The trunk above the sac, the facial, and the superior thyroid were ligatured, and the patient made a good recovery. As the suppuration is often due in all probabihty to the proximity of the wound and the ligature to the aneurism, it has been suR-gested that, in such cases, it might be safer to anticipate it by laying open the sac after the application of the ligature on the proximal side, and tying the vesssel again on the distal side, thus performing a combination of Anel's and the old operation. It would appear, however, as if this were only substituting a certain evil for one that may very possibly be avoided. Besides these, which may be looked upon as the ordinary accidents following the apphcation of a hgature for aneurism, deligation of the carotid artery occasionally gives rise to serious and even fatal disturbance of the circulation within the cranium. Effects on the Brain of Ligature of one or both Carotids.—Many experiments have been made by Meyer, Jobert, and others, upon the lower animals, with the view of determining the effect produced on the brain by the ligature of the carotid arteries. But the deductions from these are of no value when applied to the human subject, for the simple reason (which appears to have been strangely overlooked), that in many of the lower animals on which the observations were made, as the dog and rabbit, the common carotid arteries are of secondary importance in the cerebral circulation, being destined principally for the supply of the external parts of the head—the brain deriving its chief supply from the vertebrals ; whilst in other animals, as the horse, the brain derives nearly the whole of its blood from the carotids, and but a very small quantity from the vertebrals. Hence, in one case the carotids may be hgatured without danger, whilst in the other their deligation is inevitably fatal. The statistics of ligature of the carotid in the human subject have been collected by Norris, Ehrmann, and others ; and more recently by Pilz of Breslau (ArcMv fur Idinische Chirurgie, 1868), who has collected 600 cases of the operation, including *27 in which the artery was tied on both sides. The causes which led to the operation were, hEemorrhage, in 228 cases ; aneurism, in 87 ; erectile and other tumours, 142 ; extirpation of tumours, 71; cerebral affections (epilepsy, &c.), 34 ; and in 38 instances the distal operation was performed for aneurisms of the aorta and innominate artery. In the 228 cases of ligature for heemorrhage, the presence of cerebral symptoms is noted in 69 out of 167—no information being given in regard to 61 ; and, in these 69 cases, death took place in 40. Excluding, however, these from calculation, inasmuch as the brain-disorder may have been in many due to the hfemorrhage rather than to the operation, we derive from Pilz's statistics the following table showing the proportional frequency of the occurrence of cerebral disease and of deaths from this cause.