5o8 DISEASES OF BURS/E. Should this fail, or should the soft crackUng on movement show the presence of melon-seed bodies, an incision may be carefully made at the most convenient spot, and the sac emptied and drained. This operation must not be under- taken without duo consideration, and must be performed with the strictest antiseptic precautions, as the bursa frequently communicates with the articular cavity, and any septic process occurring in it would certainly lead to destruction of the shoulder-joint. The Bursa over the Olecranon.—Inflammation of this bursa ending in suppuration is a common result of falls on the elbow, with or without a wound. It causes severe pain and redness, with oedema extending along way above and below the joint. The pus may burrow some distance down the forearm unless sufficiently free incision be made early. The inflammation very rarely extends to the elbow-joint, but superficial necrosis of the olecranon sometimes occurs. Chronic enlargement with some thickening of the walls forms the affection known as "miner's elbow." Solid tumours of the bursa are rare. It is not: uncommon to find the bursa the seat of gouty deposits. The Treatment of these affections is conducted on exactly the same principles as that of the corresponding conditions at the knee. The Bursas about the Trochanter Major are occasionally the seat of' chronic inflammatory enlargement or dropsy, and of acute inflammation ter-- minating in suppuration. The latter condition is of great importance from its simulating hip-disease, or sometimes causing it by impHcation of the joint. The diao- nosis can be made only by observing that the characteristic deformity of the hip is absent, and on opening the abscess the finger will not be able to detect either diseased bone or any connexion with the joint. The treatment is conducted on ordinary principles. There can be httle doubt that the following case was one of tuberculous' disease of the bursa beneath the insertion of the gluteus maximus. A boy, ten years of age, bruised his left hip in a fall. About a month later there was a deep fluctuating swelling in the outer side of the thigh in the upper: third. No thickening of the great trochanter could be detected, and there were no signs of hip disease. The patient's death was caused by a tuberculous? tumour of the cerebellum, symptoms of which had existed for nearly a year. At the post-mortem examination a chronic abscess was found beneath the fascia i lata ; it extended upwards beneath the insertion of the gluteus maximus into" the fascia to the situation of the bursa between that muscle and the trochanter. Here there was a softening cheesy mass about an inch in diameter and a. quarter of an inch thick. The bone was carefully examined, but appeared to be quite free from: disease. The treatment of such a condition should consist in freely opening, and scraping the abscess, before the disease has involved the subjacent bone or: neighbouring joint. The Bursa over the Tuberosity of the Ischium is sometimes enlarged, forming the condition termed " Weaver's bottom." The enlargement is often: solid, and may cause great discomfort in sitting. Under these circumstances- it may be safely removed by the knife. It will be found to be in part deeply• seated under the lower part of the gluteus maximus. It is not clearly cir- • cumscribed, its outer wall being continuous with the surrounding fat. There; may be rather free bleeding, but this is easily arrested. The Bursa beneath the Psoas is rarely enlarged, but cases have been: