1142 DISEASES OF THE PROSTATE. and softer than natural On making a section, the cut surface bulges above he level ; and the shades of colour are more strongly marked than in Z heal hy prostate. Not uncommonly, single gland-lobules are found hyner trophied ; and m some cases, spheroidal prominences are seen, which ,ro easily enucleated. In some instances, an abundance of fluid escapes from the cut surface and from the openings of the prostatic ducts ; while in otlier cases this IS entirely wanting. Small cavities, due to dilatation of the gland-follicleg are occasionally tound ; sometimes empty, sometimes containing a yellow fluid resembling pus in appearance, but consisting of the prostatic secretion in a thickened state. The prostate may attain a very large size. The largest that 1 have seen is one in the Norwich Hospital Museum, taken from a man of eighty ; it weighs more than 20 ounces. Simple Prostatic Tumours.—The nature of simple tumours of the prostate has been carefully studied by Thompson ; to whose work on the diseases of this organ the student is referred for further information. Accord- ing to Thompson, tumours of non-malignant character are met with in most cases of hypertrophied prostate, and also occasionally when there is no enlarge- ment of the organ. He divides them into two classes : " 1. Tumours which are generally imbedded in the substance of the pro- state, but the structures of which are isolated from those which surround them. " 2. Outgrowths which are continuous in structure with the parts of the prostate whence they spring, but which manifest a tendency to become par- tially isolated, by assuming a more or less polypoid form, and maintaining attachment to the parent organ through the medium of a pedicle only." 1. The isolated tumours in the substance of the prostate may occupy any portion of the organ ; but are, perhaps, more numerous in the lateral lobes than elsewhere. They are easily enucleated, having but a loose connexion with the substance of the gland. In diameter they vary ft-om y^th to f ths of an inch. They are firmer and mostly paler in colour than the proper prostatic tissue, and are less vascular. ' " The basis of the tumours appears to be the fibrous basis or stroma of the prostate itself, an admixture of unstriped, soft, pale muscular fibres, and con-d nective with a little elastic tissue, closely interwoven. Interspersed with this, there are present in most cases small cavities containing flattened polygonal or spheroidal epithelium, like that seen in a pouch at the extremity of a prostatic gland-duct, and sometimes, also, some j)risraatic epithelium. These cavities are sometimes solitary, sometimes slightly branched, and sometimes of an elongated or tubular form. In a few instances there is very little, or perhaps no such glandular tissue to be found ; generally, however, a careful search will discover it. In some of the outlying tumours the glandular structure is more perfectly developed—in some it is quite so—and a duct is furnished which evidently carries secretion to the appointed destination." 2. The part of the prostate which is most usually the seat of outgroidh is the middle or urethral portion, which may become greatly enlarged in size, with or without hypertrophy of the lateral lobes. The grow^th assumes a pyriform shape, and is more or less pedunculated. It is continuous in structure with the prostatic tissues, and has its own duct, which opens into the urethra through the pedicle. Prostatic concretions are commonly found in these out- growths; never in the isolated tumours. Though most common in the middle portion of the prostate, outgrowths