538 DEFORMITIES OF THE ARM AND HAND. saiall straight splint. If, however, the flexion is permanent Arkm« r. ;nends that the tense bands of fascia in front ortheTxedt^^^^^^ l^Z^ be divided transversely with a fine fascia knife ^ "'^ Congenital Deformities of the Fingers and Hand are frequently n. t rorl".n,;?f-^'''*^^ Hypertrophy of the Fingers or MacrodactyUsm in a laie condition in which one or more digits gi-ow to a size alto-ether out r proportion to the rest of the hand, though still maintaining f re o ' e accurately their normal form. Two or three fingers are commonly affected Attempts have been made to reduce and arrest the growth by pressure but without success. If the large digits are useless, they mly be ampuUted. 2. Supernunierary Digits or Polydactylism form the most common deformity of the hand. The supernumerary digit is always either at tl.- radial or the ulnar side of the hand, and in three-fifths of the cases it is in th<- / Fig. 034.—Supernuuieraiy Thumb. Fig. G35.— Apparent Fiisiou of Hands. latter situation. The degree of development of the digit varies greatly. It may be so perfect that it appears to be simply a continuation of the natural series, there being six complete digits instead of five; and Morand describes a hand having a thumb and six well-formed though somewhat shortened fingers. More commonly the supernumerary digit is far from perfect. The jiresence of a metacarpal bone is rare, but three well-formed phalanges are not uncommonly found attached by a lateral articulation to the inner side of the head of the fifth metacarpal bone. In the least perfect form the finger is represented by a small fleshy lump commonly containing a small central mass of cartilage, and always provided with a rudimentary nail. It is attached to the base of the first phalanx of the little finger by a narrow pedicle. Various intermediate forms are also met with. A supernumerary thumb may be distinctly separate, containing usually tAvo small deformed phalanges, or it may be more or less completely fused with the normal digit, forming a wide mass with a double nail at the end. In other cases the thumb is merely bifid, only the last phalanx being double. All these varieties of deformity of the fingers are more or less hereditary. They may in most cases very easily be removed by an operation, which is simple and perfectly safe, the supernumerary