^ CHRONIC HYPERTROPHY OF THE TONSILS. 705 liable, under the influence of slight causes, to violent attacks of acute inflara- matiou with ulceration or abscess. In chronic hyperirophy the tonsil presents different characters ; it is large, rather pale, hard, smooth, and semi-elastic. This disease often occurs in children and young persons who have a general tendency to strumous affec- tions of the mucous membranes. Most commonly it develops without any assignable cause, usually commencing at five or six years of age, and gradually increasing up to puberty, a period during which the functional activity of these glands is greatest, and they are most exposed to irritation from zymotic diseases, especially scarlatina and measles. When once the tonsils have enlarged, they become a source of great inconvenience and even of serious derangement of health. The child is liable to attacks of inflammation of the throat, the tonsils tHen becoming congested, greatly swollen, and readily running into ulceration or suppuration. In consequence of these repeated attacks of inflammation, the enlargement of the tonsils increases, they become indurated, rugged-looking, and nodulated, projecting far forwards into the fauces, and sometimes even touching each other below the uvula. Respira- tion, articulation, and deglutition are now seriously interfered with. The mucous membranes of the nose and eyes are often chronically congested, and there is an increased secretion, from the back of the throat and nose, of tenacious, unhealthy, or fetid mucus, the swallowing of which is deleterious. 1 The child cannot sleep without snoring, and is apt to start up with a feeling of suff'ocation ; the voice becomes thick and husky ; the sense of hearing is blunted ; and, partly from the incipient deafness, partly from the difficulty of breathing causing the child to keep its mouth half open, the countenance assumes a pecnliar vacant, semi-idiotic expression, which is very characteristic in advanced cases. The most serious effect is the impediment to inspiration, which in the more chronic and severe cases will prevent the full inflation of the lungs, and thus occasion a permanent contraction of the chest, imperfect aeration of the blood, and an interference with general nutrition. The Treatmmt of chronic enlargement of the tonsils will vary according to the age of the child, and the degree and kind of the hypertrophy. In the earlier and slighter forms of the disease, the enlargement of the tonsils may gradually subside as the child grows older and stronger ; and it is well not to be in too great a hurry to excise the tonsils in young children, but rather to adopt a course of constitutional treatment with the view of improving the general health. The internal use of iron, and the local application of the tincture of iodine, or of burnt alum, are occasionally serviceable. In the majority of instances, however, the enlargement will not be influenced by such means, and it becomes necessary to remove the tonsil. This may be best done by the ordinary tonsil guillotine (Fig. 752). In adults the throat should first be painted with a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine, but in children who are more frightened than hurt, this will rarely be of any service. The tonsil is made prominent by pressing with the finger behind the angle of the jaw, and the ring of the instrument, which should be adapted to the size of the tonsil, being passed over it and pressed strongly towards its base, the cutting blade is pushed forwards, and thus the projecting part of the growth is removed. In some cases difficulty is experienced in bringing the tonsil fairly into the ring of the instrument; this may be obviated by drawing it through with a