INGUINAL ANEURISM. 223 spouge under the pad of the tourniquet, as it then accommodates itself more readily to the parts between it and the spine. During the operation the patient, must be watched very carefully, and the tourniquet slackened at once if any symptoms of faintness supervene. Obstinate vomiting may render ttie continu- ance of the operation impossible. It is difficult to say whether this is due to pressure on the sympathetic or to the influence of the chloroform. During the application of the tourniquet, it is advisable to have the lower limbs raised in the bed and warmly wrapped in cotton-wool, as marked coldness and serious congestion have usually been noticed after the compression has lasted a short time. If necessary, nutritive enemata and brandy may be administered during the anaesthesia. Abdominal aneurism has been treated in two cases by the introduction of foreign bodies into the sac after laparotomy, but without marked success (see p. 150), and in one case by acupuncture with improvement (see p. 151). INGUINAL ANEUEISM. An Iliac or Inguinal Aneurism may arise from the external iliac, or i'rom the common femoral artery ; most frequently it springs from the latter, and, taking a direction upwards, pushes the peritoneum before it, and thus encroaches somewhat upon the cavity of the abdomen. The aneurism is com- monly sacculated, though sometimes tubular. It rarely if ever becomes diffused, for the reason long ago pointed out by Scarpa, that the femoral artery, above the edge of the sartorius muscle, is invested by so dense a sheath, and is so closely bound down to the neighbouring fascia, that, when dilated into an aneurism, it does not readily give way. Sjmiptoms.—When first noticed, the aneurism is a small, soft, compressible tumour, with pulsation and bruit, and is generally attended with little pain or uneasiness. It rapidly enlarges, however, and may attain a considerable size; being often somewhat lobulated upon the surface, owing to the unequal constriction exercised on it by the fascia under which it lies. At the same time, it usually becomes more solid ; and the pulsation in it diminishes con- siderably, or even ceases entirely. As it increases in size, it compresses the saphenous and femoral veins, thus giving rise to oedema of the limb ; and, by stretching the genito-crural and some of the branches of the anterior crural nerve, it occasions considerable pain in the thigh and leg. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of inguinal aneurism is not always so easy as might at first appear. It has most frequently been confounded with abscess in the groin, and with soft pulsating sarcomata in this situation. The diagnosis from abscess must be made on general principles ; but in some instances it appears to be surrounded with difficulty, as there are not a few cases on re- cord in which aneurisms in this situation have been mistaken for abscesses and punctured, an error that has three times fallen under my own observation, and one which has in every instance proved fatal. The diagnosis of an inguinal aneurism, solidified by the deposition of laminated fibrin, and pulsatino- but indistinctly, from pulsating sarcoma in the groin, is surrounded by the greatest difficulty, and cannot, I believe, with the means we at present possess, be accomplished with absolute certainty. The fact of these diseases havinc^' in two instances been confounded by two of the most distinguished Surgeons