2 46 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. the graduated compress ou the wound being fixed by a tourniquet for some hours. Cripps recommends that if the bleeding recur, tlie whole must be re-applied. Amputation may be required as a last resource, and should be per- formed uiien the other methods have failed or when gangrene has supervened. Gangrene of the Limb is perhaps the most frequent source of danger after ligature of the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism. It seldom occurs unless the tumour be of considerable magnitude, have become diffused, or otherwise interfere seriously with the circulation through the limb. I have, however, seen it follow the operation when the popliteal aneurism was not larger than an orange ; but, in this case, there was much oedema and conges- tion of the limb before the operation ; and, on examination afterwards, it was found that the popliteal yein had been obliterated by the pressure of the tumour. The gangrene may, in some cases, be prevented by the treatment that has been pointed out at p. 911 et seq., Vol. 1. When it has fairly declared itself, there is necessarily no resource left but amputation, and this operation is sufficiently successful; for I find that of fourteen cases in which it was done, there were ten recoveries, and but four deaths. The Return of Pulsation in the Sac after the operation for popliteal aneurism is by no means of frequent occurrence : yet it has been met with in some instances, and Secondary Aneurism also has been found in this situa- tion. The treatment of this condition has already been considered at p. 128. Ligature of the Femoral Artery in the Middle of the Thigh (Hunter's Canal).—The point at which Hunter tied the artery in his earlier cases was situated midway between the groin and the knee. At this point the artery lies in the angle formed by the vastus internus on the outer side, and the tendons of the adductor longus and adductor magnus behind. It is covered by a distinct fascia passing between these structures, forming with them the space known as Hunter's canal. The vein at this point lies to the outer side of the artery, and the long saphenous nerve enters the canal external to the vessels and crosses them superficially. The sartorius muscle covers the fascia closing in the canal. To tie the artery in this situation, the hmb is placed in the same position as for the operation in Scarpa's triangle, and the same guiding-line must be taken to find the course of the artery ; the incision, however, muse not be made in this line, but one finger's breadth internal to and parallel to it; otherwise the edge of the sartorius is easily missed. The incision must be from three to four inches in length, and its middle point must corre- spond .to the middle of the thigh. The fascia lata is exposed, and opened, and the sartorius then comes into view. Its outer edge being found, it is pushed inwards, and held on one side with a copper spatula. Thelascia closing the canal is then seen, and must be opened for about an inch and a half, thus exposing the sheath of the vessels (Fig. 501). If the saphenous nerve is seen, it must be drawn to one side with a blunt hook. The vein does not as a rule come into view, for as the limb is lying on its outer side it is beneath the artery. The sheath of the artery is carefully opened and the Fig. 501.—Diagram of Ligature of tlie Left Fe- moral Artery in Hunter's canal, s. sartorius drawn inwards ; /. fascia closing the canal, opened freely: ((. the artery, witli a small opening in its sheath for the passage of tlie needle ; s.n. long saphenous nerve.