DISEASES OF JOINTS. 362 the Incomplete, or Fibrous; and within the articulation. It is of two kinds the Complete or Osseous. In the Incomplete or Fibrous Ankylosis, the stiffness of the joint ma\ be dependent on four distinct pathologiciil conditions which may be more or less associated :—1, on thickening and induration of its fibrous capsule ; 2, 011 the formation of fibroid bands as the result of inflammation within the joint; 3, in consequence of the cartilages and synovial membrane being in part or wholly removed, and their place being supplied by a fibroid tissue, by which the articular ends are tied together ; 4, on shortening of the ligaments on the side of flexion of the joint. The stiffness of the joint may be materially increased by the shortened and contracted state of the muscles around the joint, Init this is secondary to, and not an essential part of, the ankylosis. Fibrous ankylosis commonly results from rheumatic or gonorrhoeal arthritis, and is the most favourable result that can be hoped for in many cases of tuberculous disease. It sometimes arises simply from disuse ; the ligaments being shortened, and the limb becoming stiffened in the position in which it has been too long retained. Complete or Osseous Ankylosis is of two kinds. In one, all the soft parts within the joint are de- stroyed, and the osseous surfaces have coalesced, or are fused to- gether by direct bony union ; this is most commonly seen in the hip (Fig. 546), knee, and elbow. In the other kind the bones are united partly by fibrous tissue, and partly by arches or bridges of osseous tissue thrown out externally to the articulation, and stretching across from one side to the other. In some very rare cases these bony masses may be formed partly by ossification of the ligaments. There is a specimen illustrating this in the Museum of University College. In it the knee is completely ankylosed in an over-extended position, and the ossified ligamentum patella is clearly to be recognized. Ankylosis of the vertebrae occasionally occurs in this way giving rise \o the condition known as " qjondylitis deformans:' It is supposed to be a chronic rheumatic affection, probably in some instances gonorrhoeal, and is characterized by ossification of the ligaments connecting the vertebra, especially the anterior common ligament and the capsules of the joints be- tween the articular processes. The true or osseous ankylosis does not often occur as a consequence • of tuberculous arthritis, but is usually the result of pygemic or traumatic inflammation in persons of a healthy constitution. It not unfrequently happens, in old-standing cases of diseased joint, that more or less complete ankylosis is taking place at one part of the articulation, whilst caries, or necrosis of the bones, is going on at others. It is usually easy to make the Diagnosis between fibrous and osseous ankylosis ; the joint being movable, though perhaps only to a very slight degree, in the former, whilst it is rigidly and immovably fixed in the latter. In fibrous ankylosis, moreover, Fig. 546.—Osseous Ankylosis of Hip.