2 74 INFLAMMATION OF HONE AND JTS EFFECTS. DIFFUSE SEPTIC OSTEOMYEliITIS. Diffuse acute inflammation, ending in suppuration of the medullary tissue of a bone, may arise as a consequence of open wounds, such as compound fractures or amputations, or may occur as an acute disease arising without evident cause. I shall here deal only with the former condition, the latter being most conveniently considered when discussing the affection commonly known in this country as " acute necrosis." Diffuse septic osteomyelitis was formerly a common consequence of injuries by which the medullary canal was opened, such as compound fractures or amputations, and it was also often met with when the cancellous tissue only was implicated, as in excision of the knee. Compound fissured fractures of the long bones, such as result from gunshot wounds, are specially prone to be followed by it. The condition is essentially connected with decomposition of the discharges of the wound through which the bone has been exposed, and more especially with the presence of septic matter pent up in contact Avith the open medullary canal or cancellous tissue. The improved treatment of wounds and the use of antiseptics have now almost abolished it in civil practice though it is still not uncommon in military surgery. In certain rare cases diffuse osteomyelitis has been met with as the result of subcutaneous injuries. In the majority of these cases it forms a secondary effect of general blood-poisoning from a foul wound in some other part of the body. That this is the most probable explanation of these cases is shown by the fact that simple fractures can be made to suppurate in animals, and osteomyelitis can often be induced in the injured bone by injecting septic matter into the blood-stream. The pathology of the process is not diflScult to understand. If septic matter be pent up in the deep parts of a wound in contact with the opened cancellous tissue or the medullary canal, the products of decomposition will readily diffuse themselves into the soft medullary tissue. This becomes acutely inflamed, and pus is rapidly formed ; or owing to the confined space in which the medullary tissue is contained, the inflammatory swelling may arrest the circulation and cause gangrene. Whether it ends in gangrene or in suppuration the products of the inflammation in their turn decompose, and thus the process rapidly spreads throughout the medulla. Simple putre- faction is thus sufiBcient, in most cases, to explain the phenomena of diffuse osteomyelitis, without supposing that any specific virus is present. It is probable, however, that in many cases the wound is really infected with some specific virus analogous to that of phlegmonous erysipelas _ or spreading gangrene, for diffuse osteomyelitis may attack several patients in one ward at the'""same time, and, in fact, is predisposed to by all those conditions which have already been described as influencing the occurrence of other infective processes in wounds. The pus and gangrenous medulla are always found to contain microscopic organisms, but they are not uniform in character, _ The process is often accompanied by offensive decomposition and blackening ot the gangrenous tissues from the generation of sulphuretted hydrogen. Septic osteomyeHtis is one of the most common causes of embolic pya3mia_ ihe connexion between these conditions has been specially pointed out by iaj-rer, who has had abundant opportunities of studying the disease in India 1 le frequency with which pyaemia follows this affection is due to the fact that the