TREATMENT OF AXILLARY ANEURISM. 20I compress mi. By this means the subclavian can easily be commanded as it passes over the first rib. And the success of this treatment is likely to be great : first, because, the sac being usually large, a considei-able quantity of the contained blood is well out of the current of the circulation, readily stagnates and may thus easily coagulate ; and secondly, because the current of blood through the sac is proportionately small, and thus, if coagulation once begin it may easily be completely arrested. Digital compression, therefore, in my opinion, should always be had recourse to in the first instance. By this means, aided by rest and constitutional treatment, the progress of the tumour may be stayed, and possibly a consolidation of its contents and cure be effected. This occurred in a patient seventy-one years of age, in whom an axillary aneurism as large as a shaddock and of an actively progressing character was cured by intermittent digital pressure continued at intervals for between two and three weeks, during which time compression was kept up in all about twenty-three hours, the consolidation commencing on the third day of treat- ment after seven hours of pressure had been tried. Holmes mentions eight cases in which digital compression was tried. Three of these, under the care of Ciniselh, Dutoit, and another Surgeon whose name is not mentioned, were of traumatic origin, and of these two were cured. The remaining five were idiopathic. Three of these, under Cooper Forster, Peatson, and Rizzoli, were cured. Two, under Turet and Yanzetti, failed. In Cooper Forster's case the compression was applied twice under chloroform : on one occasion for three and a quarter hours and on the other for eight hours. In Peatson's case the pressure was appHed at intervals for a period of nearly three months. In Eizzoli's case the treatment lasted even longer, the cure not being complete for nearly six months. In this case the artery was so dilated and diseased that ligature was impossible. In Dutoit's case the compression was applied for six hours a day for six days. Lund has also recorded a case cured by digital compression in two periods, the first of ten and the second of seven and a half hours. In another case under the care of S. Jones, compression was combined with the application of Esmarch's bandage to the arm, but without success. Compression by instruments on the cardiac side can seldom be made ap- plicable to aneurisms in this situation ; inasmuch as the pressure that is brought to bear upon the subclavian must necessarily at the same time influ- ence the greater part of the brachial plexus of nerves to such an extent as to be unendurable by the patient. Yet it is not impracticable, and means might be devised to overcome this difficulty. Ligature of the artery is, however, still the Surgeon's chief resource in the treatment of these cases. The part of the vessel universally selected for the application of the ligature is that which lies on the first rib beyond the scalenus anticns muscle ; this part presents the advantages of being sufficiently removed from the seat of disease to ensure the probability of the coats being in a sound state, of being by far the most accessible, and, when deligated" of allowing the collateral circulation by which the vitality of the arm is to be maintained to remain uninjured. ligature of the Third Part of the Subclavian.—In order to apply a ligature to that portion of the subclavian artery which intervenes between the outer edge of the scalenus anticus and the outer border of the first rib, the patient should be placed in the recumbent position, the arm de-