SPECIAL ANEURISMS. externally there are interposed between it and the intef^ument the layers of the cervical fascia, the margin of the sterno-mastoid, the digastric, stylo-hyoid and stylo-pliaryngeus, and the styloid process, and above the digastric the parotid gland. When, therefore, dilatation of the vessel takes place, it necessarily has a tendency to push forwards that part of its covering where it meets with least resistance ; and, this being to the pharyngeal side, more or less pi'ominence will be found in this cavity. In a case that occurred to Syme, this was especially well marked, the aneurism of the internal carotid simulating closely an abscess of the tonsil. In two cases related by Porter in the seventeenth volume of the Diiblin Journal of the Medical Sciences, this was one of the most marked features : the " appearances of the tumour (as seen by the mouth) were most alarming ; the pulsation could be distinctly seen, and the blood almost felt under the mucous membrane ; it seemed ready to give way and burst into the mouth every moment." Treatment.—The treatment of these cases does not differ from that of aneurisms connected with the carotid arteries, and seated at the upper part of the neck; but we are not in possession of a sufficient number of facts to enable us to determine with any degree of precision what the result of surgical inter- ference in them is likely to be. If we could give an opinion from the limited number of cases at present before the profession, we should feel disposed not to entertain a very favourable opinion of the result of the Hunterian opera- tion, as applied to aneurism of the internal carotid outside the skull. This is doubtless owing to the situation of the aneurism against the mucous mem- brane of the mouth, being such that the surrounding tissues do not exercise a sufficient amount of pressure against the sac after the ligature of the vessel to allow the efficient deposition of laminated coagulum, and consequent occlusion of the artery leading into it—circumstances which, in accordance with the principles that have been laid down in speaking of the Hunterian operation, are necessary to success, INTBACRANIAL ANEURISM. Aneurisms may arise from any of the intracranial arteries, though some are much more liable than others to this disease. Of 62 cases noted by W. Gull, the basilar artery was affected in 20 cases, and the middle cerebral in 15. In 8 of the remaining cases, the internal carotid was aflFected; and in 6 others the anterior cerebral artery was the seat of aneurism. The vertebral arteries and their branches were affected in 28 cases, and the carotids and their branches in 34. t • v. Causes.—The causes of intracranial aneurism are very obscure. It might be supposed that the small size of the arteries within the skull would render them little liable to the occurrence of spontaneous aneurism, were it not that the anatomical characters and physiological relations of these vessels predispose considerably to the occurrence of this affection ; there bemg no other set of arteries in the body of the same size as those within the skull in which spontaneous aneurism so frequently occurs. This can be accounted for only by the thinness of their coats and the want of an external fibrous sheath rendering them unable to support the increased tension to which they are occasionally subjected in consequence of the alteration in pressure of the cerebral circula-