INTERNAL URETHROTOMY. "93 The guide to the bladder may be obtained in . two ways. A fine whalebone bougie having been plsser^rough the stricture, the -tln-otome m^^^^ be so constructed, by being tunnelled for a short distance at its point, as to slide over this into the bladder. But a better plan is the employmen of Maisonneuve's sonde condndnce, or conducting sound. This is a very fine gum-elastic bougie provided with a male screw at the end (Fig. 923 c). This is first passed on till it is judged to be in the bladder. A small catheter correspondmg to a No. 1, having a female screw at its extremity, is then screwed on to it and passed onwards, while the conducting sound coils up in the bladder, ii the urine flow, it is then certain that the conducting sound has passed in the proper direction. It is now withdrawn again, the conducting sound bemg lett in position. The catheter is now replaced by the urethrotome, which screws in the same way. Berkeley Hill invented a very ingenious urethrotome for cutting from behind forwards, in which a very fine knife can be protruded from an instrument not larger than a No. 2. Another instrument in- vented by the same Surgeon for cutting from before backwards is represented in Fig. 923. It combines the principles of several others, and has been found to work most successfully. It is thus employed. The conducting sound having been passed and ascertained to be in the bladder, the female screw B is applied to the male screw a, and the instrument passed through the stricture. The blades i and h, when closed about equal a No. 3 catheter in size. The point h is about equal to a No. 1. The instru- ment having been passed, the wedge e, which con- tains a knife d concealed in a shield c, is now inserted between the blades and passed steadily down. The blades thus separated stretch and steady the urethra ; and when the stricture is reached, the shield c stops against it and prevents further progress. The small concealed knife d is then protruded by pressing the button at the top of the instrument, and as soon as the finger is removed it is withdrawn again by the spring I. ■ The wedge can then be passed on a little further, and if it hitch again the knife can be again pro- truded. By this means the urethra is cut only at Fif! 9''8.—Berkeley Hill's Dilator and Urethrotome, a, Frout View ; b, Side View ; c, Conducting Sound with sniali male screw at a ; ?), female screw; c, sheath for concealed knife ; d, knife protruded ; c, wedge for separating the blades h and i ; the knife is on the posterior aspect of tlie wedge ; f/, rod for carrying the wed<'e • / rod for protruding the knife ; k, screw for regulating the distance to which the knife can be pro- truded'- /, spring to draw back the knife and keep it concealed, except when protruded by pressing the button opposite a and b. (In Fig. b, the button should have been represented as depressed.)