946 OPERATIONS ON THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. drainap-fcube inserted. In more tlian one case a posterior openinL^ nmde below the asfc rib of tl,e left side. The connexions of e' yst S rai^ y allow comp ete removal, as practised by Glutton and others ^ " Is inner has collected 85 cases in which incision and drainage were practised of these 2) recovered and G died, but only 3 directlv from the opm^^^^ Partial extu-pat.on was carried out in 8 with 7 recoVeries and colnTw" extirpation in 6 with 4 recoveries. ^<^overies, and com]j]ete JoTT^ l<?ave this subject without an expression of admiration at the great advance that has of late years been made in the treatment of dtase of the abdominal viscera by surgical operation, and a recognition of the mer ot those Surgeons who have led the advance in this department of ouTa and of the vast importance of the results achieved by them. But whilst thus freely recording my admiration for the successes that have been obtained 1 must add a few words of caution to aspirants for distinction in this great field of practice. I would venture to remind them that an operation is not necessarily justifiable because it is practicable ; that every act of operative audacity is not a triumph of sound and legitimate surgery ; and that a patient's lite may possibly be prolonged on conditions less tolerable than death. DISEASES OF THE UMBILICUS. Haemorrhage from the Umbilicus occasionally occurs in infants on separa- tion of the cord. It is best treated by acupressure, a darning-needle being passed through the bleeding point and a piece of silk twisted round it. Ulceration of the Umbilicus is occasionally met with after the separation of the cord in new-born children. It must be treated by cleanliness and the application of some simple ointment. In adults, especially when very fat and uncleanly in their habits, eczema followed by ulceration is not uncommon in the navel. It must be treated by syringing with boric acid lotion and the application of boric acid ointment. Sometimes a prominent fungating mass of granulations may form, which requires destruction with nitrate of silver. Soft and hard chancres have been met with on the navel, and a purulent discharge resulting from gonorrhoeal infection is said to have been observed. A Polypus is occasionally met with in children springing from the hollow of the umbilicus. It usually forms a pedunculated body of a red colour, and is about the size of a currant. On microscopic examination it is found to contain glandular tissue, and it is evidently developed from the vitelline duct. It may be removed with a fine ligature, or with a fine-pointed cautery. Dermoid Cysts at the umbihcus are rare ; they may be pedunculated. They should be removed. Squamous Carcinoma of the Umbilicus is a rare disease. Should it occur the tumour must be removed freely, the abdominal cavity being opened if necessary, and the aperture being closed by sutures. Umbilical Fistulae.—Fmcal fistula, at the umbilicus may arise from strangulation and sloughing of an umbilical hernia. They are also occasion- ally congenital, resulting either from a protrusion of a diverticulum fi'oui the ileum, or of a j)ortion of the small intestine into the cord and its accidental inclusion in the ligature at birth. In other cases they arise from perforation of the small intestine by chronic ulceration, usually tuberculous, with the formation of a circumscribed abscess amongst the coils of the intestine, finally