SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 178 reasonable hope of benefit, the Surgeon is justified in resorting to the Hgature of the trunk of the common carotid on the distal side of the sac, in cases of aneurism limited to the root of that vessel. he ANEURISM OF THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. The trunk of the external carotid is so short that it seldom becomes th_ seat of aneurism without involving at the same time the common artery at its bifurcation. It may, however, become aneurismal. The tumour, presenting the usual sijius of aneurism, will be found situated under the angle of the jaw and above the level of the cricoid cartilage. From the important nature and close proximity of the parts surrounding it, the pressure-effects are serious and early. By pressure on the hypoglossal nerve the muscles of the corresponding side of the tongue may be paralysed, so that when protruded the tongue is turned towards the affected side. Aphonia and dysphagia have been met with as early symptoms. The treatment consists in ligature of the common carotid above the omo-hyoid. After this operation it may happen that pulsation continues faintly, or speedily returns in the sac, owing to the freedom of enlarged anastomoses. It has, therefore, been proposed by Morris to ligature the primary branches of the external carotid as well—a plan certainly difficult in execution and probably of doubtful utility. In Fig. 477 is represented an aneurism of the external carotid for which the com- mon carotid was ligatured by Christopher Heath. The artery is occluded above and below the ligature, and the aneurism is filled with laminated clot. Atrophy of the right half of the tongue had resulted from the pressure of the aneurism on the hypoglossal nerve. The patient, who was a woman twenty-three years of age, had suffered from several attacks of acute rheumatism. She died of cerebral embolism on the thirty-fifth day after the operation. The mitral and aortic valves were found to be extensively diseased. tifrature of the External Carotid Artery.-Although this operation can rarely be required in the treatment of aneurism, it may conveniently be considered here. Amongst the various conditions m which ligature of the external carotid may be adopted in preference to that of the common trunk may especially be nLtioned hemorrhage from its deep bi-anches such as th Tnternal maxillary (see Vol. I., p. 474), and as a prelimmary stage the re-o^j;^ of tumours in the regions supplied by it. An incision is n^^^e along he anterior border of the sterno-mastoid from a pmnt opposite the angle of the Pig. 477.—Aneurism of External Carotid cured liy ligature of Common Carotid. A. point of application of ligature ; B. internal carotid; C. external carotid ; U. common trunlc of lingual and facial.