SUmuCAL OPERATIONS ON THE CHEST. j6o luf tfd'^l' '"'^^ ''''' P^^'^^-^ ' the fluid out, and only causes needless irritation. shnnl Jl'' ^^f after-treatment. The deep part of the dressing hou d consis of cyanide or alembroth guu.e, over which it is well to p .1 p ece of oiled silk or some other impermeable material, to prevent tte ciischarge soaking directly through opposite the wound. The outer part of th dressing should consist of an absorbent mass of antiseptic wool, subhmat. wood-wool carded oakum, or carbolized jiite. For the first few days the dressing should be clianged at least daily, but the intervals may be gradually increased When the dressing is removed, the entrance of impure air should be prevented by immediately covering the wound with a piece of rag soaked in some antiseptic solution. In ordinary cases nothing is gained by washing out the cavity with antiseptic solutions, a proceeding which has been known to cause sudden death in more than one case, an accident the cause of which IS quite unknown. If, however, it is thought necessary to wash out a cavity the discharge from which is profuse and offensive, two tubes of unequal siz^ should be inserted as recommended by Godlee and the fluid slowly injected ihrough the smaller one. In this way a free escape for the fluid is ensured. 5. The removal of the tube. The time at which the tube should be re- moved IS often a difficult point to determine. When the discharge becomes purely serous and very small in amount, the tube may at first be shortened till It IS just long enough to retain its position. It is then often forced out by the granulations, or by the expanding lung. It is well to examine the cavity carefully with a probe before removing the tube, as the space unclosed may be larger than would be supposed from the amount of discharge. So long as a distinct cavity remains the tube should be retained. In young chtldren, especially if the opening has been made early, the tube may sometimes be removed after a week or ten days, and often need not be retained after a fort- night. In adults, in whom expansion of the lung is often less perfect, and whose chest-walls are too rigid to sink in, many months usually elapse before the cavity is closed, and in some cases complete recovery never takes place. Long sinuses, very troublesome to heal, are occasionally left. These commonly arise from opening too far back or too low down, or from the prolonged retention of tubes of needless length. In some cases in which a small cavity remains and refuses to heal, Godlee has obtained good results by removing the tube and passing a small catheter along the track daily, so as to give exit to any discharge which may have accumulated. 6. The results of the operation for empyema are usually as satisfactory now as they were formerly unsatisfactory. In children, especially if the health is otherwise good, recovery is the rule. The temperature falls immediately after the operation, and unless some complication occur, seldom rises again. If the operation be not too long delayed, complete expansion of the lung usually takes place. This is effected by the gradual adhesion of the two pleural surfaces to each other, commencing in the angle of reflexion from the chest walls to the lung. Operation for enipijema tvithout antisejjlic precautions may occasionally be necessary when the means of proper treatment are not obtainable. The Surgeon must then rely on freedom of drainage, by which it may be possible so far to reduce the quantity of decomposable matter in the chest, that the dose of septic products absorbed by the patient shall not be sufficient to cause