45° DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. fclic convexity downwards, commencing at the side of one condyle of the femur, and passing immediately above the tubercle of the tibia to a corre- sponding point on the opposite condyle (Fig. 585). By this incision the ligamentum patellai is divided, and the patella turned up in the elliptical flap; the crucial ligiunents, if not already disorganized, are then to be cut across, any remaining lateral attachments divided, and the bones cleared for the saw. In doing this the limb must be forcibly flexed, and the knife carefully applied to the posterior part of the head of the tibia; for this purpose a blunt-pointed Fig. 5S6.—Application of Butclier's Saw to Fig. 588.—Upper End of Tibia, Head of Tibia. excised. resection-knife is the best. The articular surfaces must now be sawn off. This may be done with Butcher's saw; but in order to ensure a perfectly smooth section of the bones, it is better to use a common saw somewhat broader than that ordinarily employed in amputations. The lower end of the thigh-bone should first be removed. The saw-cut may safely be carried from before backwards, or in the opposite direction, as there is no danger of injuring the popliteal vessels. It must be made accurately at right angles to the shaft of the femur, in the antero-posterior direction ; but, in the ti-ans- verse, it should be parallel to the articular surface, that is to say, the inner side must be left slightly the longer, as the internal condyle is naturally longer than the outer. If the condyles retain their normal shape, it is not difficult to judge the proper angle at which the saw should be held; but if they are extensively and irregularly destroyed, the following guide may be taken. The patient lying flat on his back, the thigh is flexed to a right angle, and adducted till the inner side of the knee corresponds to the middle line of the body; the saw is then to be held parallel to the surllice of the table. A thin slice is next taken off the tibia. It is usually recommended to cut from behind forwards (Fig. 586) to avoid wounding the popliteal vessels; but if ordinary care be taken there is no risk of doing this, and it is more convenient