TREATMENT OF GANGRENE FOLLOWING LIGATURE. 133 to occasion a great liability to the occurrence of gangrene. But perliaps ;he principal source of danger consists in the aneurism lecoming suddenly and ividphj diffused, more particularly in those cnses in which the anatomical elations of the collateral vessels are such, as in the ham, that they may readily tnd uniformly become compressed by the elliised blood. In these cases, the additional embarrassment induced in the circulation of the limb by the ligature of its main artery will readily induce gangrene ; and hence it is that, in diffuse aneurism of the lower extremity, ligature of the artery is so commonly followed )y mortification. Loss of Hood, either in consequence of secondary hfemorrhage or in any other way before or after the application of the ligature, is very apt to be followed by gangrene ; the more so, if it have been necessary to apply a ligature to a higher point on the trunk of the vessel than had previously been tied. This secondary ligature of a large artery in cases of aneurism has, I believe, invariably been followed by gangrene of the limb, when done in the lower extremity; the interference with the collateral circulation by the second ligature being so great, that the vitality of the part cannot be maintained. Besides these causes, the occurrence of erysipelas, exposure of the limb to cold, or to an undue degree of heat, or subjecting it to the compression of a bandage, may be attended with consequences fatal to its vitality. The period of superventioyi of gangrene of the limb is usually from the third to the tenth day ; it seldom occurs before this period, unless incipient mortification have already set in before the artery was tied. Gangrene usually follows the ligature of the external iliac at an earlier period than that of any other artery. In cases of aneurism, the gangrene is always of the dark and moist variety, owing to its being commonly dependent on pressure upon the large venous trunks by the aneurismal tumour. Treatment.—The general preventive treatment of gangrene following the ligature of the artery for aneurism must be conducted on the same principles as when it arises after the ligature of arteries generally (Vol. I., p. 463). But some special modifications of it are required, so far as the aneurism is con- cerned. When the gangrene occurs from the pressure of the sac upon the accompanying vein, it has been proposed to lay the tumour open, and to turn out its contents, thus removing the compression. The danger of such a proceeding consists in the probability of the occurrence of htemorrhage from the opening made into the sac, and in the risk attending suppuration set up in the sac ; yet it would appear that, in two cases in which this practice was adopted, no bad results followed. Thus, Lawrence has related a case of diffused aneurism of the popliteal artery, in which this plan was had recourse to with the best results ; and Benza has recorded a case of popliteal aneurism in which the same method was adopted in consequence of great oedema and incipient gangrene of the foot ; after the extnicLion of a quantity Fig. 45S.— Popliteal Aneurism compressing the Vein, and tluis causing Gangrene of the Limb : a. Artery ; h, Vein compressed at d ; c. Aneurism.