434 DISEASE OF THE IIIP-JO INT. and necrosis of the sliaft. Should the patient suitIvb till the process becomes i chronic, amputation affords the only chance of life. The operation was W successfully performed under these circumstances a few years ago in University College Hospital. Excision of the Hip-Joint.—White of Manchester, in 17G!), was the first to propose, and Anthony White, of the Westminster Hospital, in 1821, was the first to perform, excision of the head of the femur. This he did on a boy eight years old, who had had disease of the hip-joint for three or four years, and in whom the carious head of the thigh-bone rested on the dorsum ilii. White removed the head and trochanters of the bone, and the patient recovered from the operation, dying of phthisis five years afterwards. The preparation is in the Museum of the College of Surgeons. This operation was repeated by Eewson of Dublin, in 1823 ; it then seems to have been forgotten in Great Britain until its revival, in 1845, by Fergusson. But in the meanwhile it had not entirely escaped the attention of Continental Surgeons. Oppenheim, in 1829, and Seutin, in 1832, excised the head of the femur for gunshot injury ; and, in 1842, Textor published an essay on the subject. Methods of Operating.—The method employed will vary somewhat according to the stage of the disease in which the excision is undertaken, and the probable amount of bone which it is necessary to remove. In the earUer stages of suppuration the anterior incision, as recommended by R. W. Parker, is especially useful, as in this way the joint is reached by the route along which the abscess usually comes to the surface, no muscles or other important structures are divided, and through this incision the bone is easily sawn through its neck. In the later stages of the disease, especially when there is marked flexion associated with backward displacement of the upper end of the femur, the operation is most conveniently done through an external or posterior incision, which has the additional advantage that through it division of the bone below the trochanter can easily be practised. When sinuses are present the incision can often be modified so as to pass through those which appear to lead down to the joint. Anterior Incision.—The incision is commenced half an inch below the anterior superior iliac spine, and is continued downwards and slightly inwards for three inches. By deepening the incision the sartorius and rectus femoris on the inner side are separated from the tensor vagina femoris and the gluteus medius and minimus on the outer, and thus the front of the jomt is reached. In the majority of cases this incision will freely open an abscess external to the joint. The details of the further steps of the operation may best be conducted on the lines laid down by A. E. Barker and Bilton Pollard. The cavity of the abscess should be thoroughly scraped and flushed by means ot Barker's flushing curette (Fig. 573) with water at 105° to 110° F. which has been sterilized by boiling. The track by which the abscess has escaped from the joint is now enlarged if necessary, and the head of the bone is excised by sawing through the neck in the line of the incision with an Adams s saw (Fig. 574). The loose head is easily removed with a curved periosteal elevator, or with sequestrum forceps. . a ^ a „r,H-i fiiP The cavity of the joint is next thoroughly scraped and flushed un il the tuberculous tissue has been removed as completely as possible. Special care must be taken to remove any necrosed cartilage from the acetabulum, and