II02 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTRITY. by the introduction of a sound. Relief may be j^-iveu in one of two wuys- 1. If the stone be near the meatus, it may be extracted ; and, 2, if situated more deeply, it may be pushed back to the perinseum, there fixed by the finger, and cut down upon in the mesial hne. It should not be' pushed back into the bladder unless the Surgeon is prepared to crush it; and a« in children this operation requires special instruments, it can only be ex. ceptionally that such a line of treatment would be justifiable. If the stone is allowed to continue fixed in the urethra very serious conse- quences may ensue. If it completely obstructs the canal, the membranoug part of the urethra may give way during the violent eflForts at micturition, and extravasation of urine will take place. In other cases, if it ?je irregular in shape, a small quantity of water may pass. Under these circumstances^there ig intense irritability of the bladder, the urine passing with much pain every few minutes, or constant dribbling may set in. The distended bladder can be recognized above the pubes. The penis is usually turgid and semi-erect. Some purulent discharge will be observed about the meatus, and there will be some hard ill-defined swelling in the perinseum, with much tenderness in this region. The presence of the stone may at last cause ulceration of the urethra with the formation of urinary abscess in the perineum, followed perhaps by extravasation of urine into the scrotum and its diflFusion beneath the superficial fascia in the usual direction, with the ordinary disastrons results of inflammation and sloughing. On passing a sound, no stone pro- bably will be found, as this has escaped from the urethra, and is lying in a pouch in some part of the perinseum, and in the midst of the broken-down areolar tissue and pus ; into this cavity the sound will readily pass. The Treatment in these cases is simple. It consists in introducing a grooved staff, placing the boy in the lithotomy position, and then freely incising the mesial line of the perinseum, so as to open up the urinary abscess ; in this the stone may be found, or it may be so enveloped in the sloughy tissues as tC' escape detection; perhaps it will escape through the wound in a few days, and be found lying in the bed. Should there be much haemorrhage a catheter may be tied in and the wound plugged with salicylic or iodoform-wool secured by a "T'baiidage. If extravasation of urine have occurred, free incisions must be made in the usual way, and the child be put upon a stimulating diet. Tor Foreign Bodies in the Bladder, see Vol. I., p, 895. CALCULUS IN THE FEMALE. Stone is of rare occurrence in women ; in London, certainly, it is not often met with. Thus, South states that, during a period of twenty-three years, 144 males were operated on for stone at St. Thomas's Hospital, and only 2 females. In some districts, however, stone would appear to be more common in women than this. Thus, according to Crosse, at the IsTorwich Hospital, the proportion has been about 1 woman to 19 men. Civiale stated, as the result of his researches, that in the North of Italy, the proportion was 1 to 18; and in France, about 1 to 22. At University College Hospital we had not had a case of stone in the female for many years until 1855, when three came under ray care in the course of a few months; and since that period many have occun'ed.