FERINMAL LITHOTJUTY. io93 LiTHOTRiTY IN BoYS.—Until Bigelow iatrodaced his method, although lifchotrity hadioccasionally been performed on boys, it was not considered a satisfactory or advisable proceeding, partly because of the small size and delicate structure of the child's urethra, and partly because ot the aim- culty of expelling the fragments. During the last few years, however, U has been extensively practised with the most satisfactory results, especially in India, by Keegan, Freyer, Dennis and others, and in this country by Walsham, Southam, Barling and others. Keegan has clearly shown that the urethra of a male child is much more capacious than is generally supposed. The smallest hthotrite used in any case was No. 4|, but in the great majority of children over three years of age, Ko. 8 could be passed with ease. The urethra should be measured before selecting the instrument, either by a urethrometer or a conical bougie. If necessary the meatus must be enlarged. Keegan finds that the narrowest part of a child's urethra, except the meatus, is at the junction of the penile and scrotal portions, 2* to 3 inches from the meatus. The lithotrite must be fully fenestrated, so that the risk of the instrument becoming clogged may be as small as possible. The size of the evacuators varies from "No. 5 to No. 10 ; as a rule, No. 8 or No. 9 can easily be passed. The evacuating catheters must be provided with stylets, which should be introduced before the instrument is with- drawn, with the object of displacing any fragment which may be engaged in the eye of the catheter. The details of the operation are the same as in the adult, and all the manipulations must be carried out with the greatest gentleness. The bladder should be emptied and then injected with 2 or 3 ounces of warm boric lotion. Keegan lays it down as a rule that no instrument must be used which will not pass freely in and out of the bladder, and he states that he has met with cases in which no lithotrite could be safely used, and cutting became necessary. He states that small fragments are apt to remain at the neck of the bladder; these can be felt with a finger in the rectum and pushed back on to the floor of the bladder. The aspirator must be worked very gently. The special dangers of lithotrity in young children depend on the small size of the parts in which the manipulations are carried out, and the ease with which, unless the greatest care be taken, the urethra may be lacerated or the bladder wall torn. Edmund Owen has recorded a case in which rupture of the bladder occurred during the use of the aspirator. The rupture, which was extraperitoneal, was sutured through a suprapubic in- cision, and drainage was established by a perinseal incision, but unfortunately the child died of collapse in eight hours. The Mortality attending lithotrity in children in the hands of Surgeons skilled in the operation has been remarkably low. Thus of the first 125 cases recorded by Keegan only 4 died, the fatal result in each case being due to organic kidney disease. The ages of the children varied from one year and nine months to fourteen years, the average age being 6'38 years. The average weight of the stone was 89*15 grains, and the average stay in hospital was 4*5 days. In only one case was there known to be recurrence of the stone. Of a total of 663 lithotrities in children performed by eight Surgeons in India only 18 died, giving a mortality of 2*71 per cent. Perineal Lithotrity.—Although the treatment of a stone in tin- bladder by crushing it through a perinseal incision had been advocated by