1270 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. three times, the treatment may be advuntageouBly continued by passinj-- twice a week a similar instrument charged witli glycerine of tannin. This acts as an admirable astringent, and often acts better than the nitrate. 2. Spasmodic Spermatorrhoea, or Spermatospasmos, more frequently occurs between the ages of twenty-five and forty. It is frequently predisposed to by residence in a warm climate, or by the existence of some disease about the generative organs, such as stricture, varicocele, neuralgia testis, &c. In these cases there is not, properly speaking, a seminal flux ; but complete con- nexion cannot be effected, as erection and ejaculation are either simultaneous acts or the erection partially subsides before the emission takes place. Thig form of generative debility is often as much dependent on mental as on purely physical causes. Treatment.—This is a condition of irritability rather than of debility. It often occurs in strong and otherwise healthy men, accustomed to field-sports and out-of-door exercises. There is no evidence of anaemia or of debility of any kind. Hence tonics are not necessary. The remedy most to be relied upon is bromide of potassium in doses of 20 to 30 grains, with cold bathing, and, perhaps, when there is urethral irritation, blisters to the perinseum and along the penis, and belladonna to the interior of the urethra. In addition t(^ these means, it is of the first importance to enjoin moderation in food and drink, and above all, avoidance of alcoholic stimulants. 3. Impotence arising from absence of all sexual desire or power, or from premature decay of that power, is not unfrequently met with, and often in individuals who are otherwise strong and healthy; sometimes, indeed, in those endowed with great muscular power, and much given to athletic exercises. This want of sexual desire may be looked upon in many instances as a natural deficiency in the organization of the individual, for which treat- ment can do little. In other cases it arises from exhaustion of the nervous system by habitual physical or mental over-exertion, by excessive sexual indulgence, over-training, or study carried to an injurious degree. Complete absence of seminal secretion—Aspermia—except in cases of atrophy or absence of the testes, must be especially rare. In a patient of mine who died at 54 years of age, and who, according to his own and his wife's account, had been completely impotent for twenty-four years, spermatozoa iu considerable quantities were after death found in the testes, which were carefully examined with the view of asceiiaining whether they ever secreted semen. Retention of both testicles, or atrophy of both glands from mumps, may cause impotence. Temporary impotence from nervousness is not uncommonly met with in young men immediately after marriage. In these cases the treatment recommended by Astley Cooper, of ordering some harmless medicine, and forbidding the patient to attempt connexion, will usually be effectual. Sterility in the male is a condition that has attracted some amount of attention of late years. It is, of course, not unfrequently connected with, and is probably dependent on, the same conditions that give rise to the various forms of sexual debility that have just been described. But it may occur inde- pendently of any of these states—in individuals, indeed, who are possessed of a very considerable amount of sexual desire and vigour. It would appear to be due to some morbid condition of the seminal fluid, in consequence of which the spermatozoa are either absent, or are possessed of insufficient vitality to effect impregnation. The causes of this condition are very obscure ; but over-