767 HYPERTROPHY OF THE BREAST. niav be associated with intercostal neuralgia and spinal tenderness. Habitual •onstipation is occasionally a predisposing cause. Amongst the various local ..lulitions to which the pain has been attributed are injury, the pressure of adly-fitting stays, and the dragging weight of an unusually large breast. 7Veatme?ii.—lt is necessary first to relieve the patient's mind from the fear of cancer. Any uterine affection that may be present must receive suitable treatment. Constipation must be relieved by diet and purgatives ; anemia by iron and a sufficiency of meat food. Change of air to a dry, bracing climate may be of service. Locally, the application of a belladonna plaster is most likely to be of service ; it not only protects the tender skin and acts as a sedative, but prevents the frequent examination and manipulation of the breast. Velpeau recommends that the breast should be supported and drawn slightly inwards. Hypodermic injections of morphine should only be given as a fast resource in the most extreme cases. Partial removal or complete excision of the gland is not justifiable, as it is rarely productive of any real benefit. HYPERTROPHY. True Hypertrophy of the Breast is a rare condition. It consists simply in an overgrowth of the mammary tissue. Causation.—No definite cause of the disease is known, but in diflFerent cases, often without much evidence, it has been attributed to menstrual irre- gularity, excessive sexual excitement, blows, &c. In most cases the hyper- trophy has commenced about the period of the establishment of the menstrual function, but in other cases it has appeared at a later time. Of 26 cases collected by Labarraque only 5 occurred in women above twenty-six years of age. In some few instances the enlargement has been merely an exaggeration of the normal process of evolution of the breast during pregnancy. Labar- raque quotes two such cases, in one of which, a woman of twenty, the breasts had reached such an enormous size at the second month of pregnancy, that the patient was entirely confined to the recumbent position. At the time of the patient's death from typhoid fever two months after her confine- ment, the right breast was one-fifth, and the left about one-half, its former size. Symptoms.—True hypertrophy of the breast is characterized by the steady increase in size, which sometimes goes on rapidly, but as a rule is gradual and continues for years. Pain is an uncommon symptom, and the chief discomfort arises from the weight of the enlarged breasts. In some cases this has been so great that the patient has been unable to maintain the erect position and respiration has been seriously interfered with. In the early stages the breast maintains its normal form, but as the size increases it tends to become flask- shaped and pendulous. The nipple becomes flattened and the areola ex- panded, but the skin remains non-adherent and the axillary glands are not enlarged. The general nutrition is usually somewhat impaired and the patient becomes thin and anaemic. In the large majority of cases there has been disturbance of the menstrual function, usually in the direction of amenorrhcea. The tendency of the disease is for the breast to reach a certain size and then to become stationary ; but in that variety which arises in con- nexion with pregnancy a great diminution, and in some cases a return to a reasonable size, has constantly occurred after delivery. In some cases this has been preceded by a very profuse and continuous flow of milk.