STRUCTURE OF A HERNIA. 821 HERNIA. By Hernia, in its widest sense, is meant the displacement of an organ from the cavity in which it is naturally contained, by being protruded through an abnormal or accidental opening in its walls ; when, however, it escapes through one of the natural outlets of the part, it is not considered hernial. Thus, the protrusion of the brain through an aperture in the cranium, or of the lung through one in the thoracic walls, or of a portion of intestine through the abdo- minal parietes, is termed a hernia of the organ ; but the descent of the bowel through the anus does not come under this designation. Here, however, we have to consider only the hernial protrusions that occur from the abdomen. A hernia may occur at almost any part of the abdominal wall ; though it is far more liable to do so in some situations than in others, being commonly met with at those points where the muscular and tendinous structures are weakened to allow the passage of the spermatic cord in the male, and of the round ligament in the female ; or for the transmission of the large vessels to the lower extremity. Hence the inguinal and crural canals are the common situations of this disease. It may, however, occur elsewhere, as at the umbili- cus, the thyroid foramen, the sciatic notch, in the vagina, the perinaaum, through the muscular portions of the abdominal wall, the diaphragm, &c. Structure of a Hernia.—In whatever situation it occurs, a hernia is composed of a Sac and its Contents. The Sac is the prolongation of that portion of the peritoneum which corre- sponds to the aperture through which the hernia protrudes. It is in all cases composed of a neck and a iody. The Neck is usually narrowed, though in some old hernige it becomes wide and expanded ; it is commonly short, consisting indeed of a sudden constriction of the sac in this situation, as happens in many forms of femoral hernia ; but in other cases it is elongated and narrowed. The neck of the hernial sac usually becomes greatly thickened and of an opaque colour, by the growth of fibroid tissue in or upon it from the irritation to which it has been subjected by the pressure of the hernial tumour or the truss, by the incorpora- tion of the subserous areolar tissue lying externally to it, or by the puckering together of its folds, which have been compressed in the aperture. The Body of the sac is usually globular or pyriform, sometimes elongated and cylmdrical; it may vary from the size of a cherry to a tumour as large as the head. When recent, it is usually thin and transparent, though in some cases It becomes greatly thickened and almost laminated in structure ; this is especially the case in old femoral herniaB. In other instances, however, it becomes thmned and atrophied as the tumour expands, so that the contents become visible through it. This is especially the case in old umbilical hernise, m which I have seen it as thin as the finest gold-beater's skin. The sac, though usually forming a perfect covering to the hernial contents occasionally constitutes but a partial investment to them, more particularly m such organs as the bladder, which are partially uncovered by peritoneum In other instances it may be ruptured, or altogether wanting. The sac is absent when the hernia occurs as the result of a wound, injury, or abscess of the abdominal wall. In some instances the sac may be absent in CEBcal and in umbilical hernige. More rarely a double hernial sac is met with one beino- protruded into or placed behind the other. There are instances of three ^^acs