1224 DISEASES OF THE PENJS AND SCROTUM. a greater or lesser extent, not iinfrequently occurs in persons of broken const i tution as the result ofinflamniatory phimosis, simi)le or gonorrhoeaUFi^ 1)89). or of syphilitic phagedaena, and indeed the glans and body of tiie organ may often be extensively destroyed by the latter cause. These various forms of the disease have already been described. True idiopaihic gangrene of the penis is, however, a very rare disease • and Demarquay, who specially directed attention to it, found but few instances of It m the records of surgery. It has chiefly been met with in people of advanced age or of broken constitution, who, whilst suffering from some local affection of the organ, have been attacked by acute febrile disease, such typhoid or small-pox, or have become the subjects of pyajmia. In some case- it IS probably embolic. The disease, when affecting the body of the penis, often fatal—possibly by hemorrhage on the separation of the slough. When the glans only is attacked, the prospect is better. ]^ut in either case mutila- tion of the organ to a serious extent will result. The Treatment of gangrene of the penis presents nothing special, with the exception of restraining hgemorrhage by means of the actual cautery, and pre- venting or repairing loss of substance in the urethral wall, if it be invaded by the disease and involved in the destruction resulting. Hypertrophy of the Prepuce occasionally occurs as the result of chronic irritation or disease ; it is usually of limited extent, and requires no special treatment ; but in some instances it may become so extensive as to require operative interference. The hypertrophy is due to sohd oedema of the prepuce and body of the penis, the organ being greatly enlarged and club-shaped. In these cases circumcision, with the excision of a V-shaped piece from the dor- sum of the prepuce, will be found to give a satisfactory result. Vidal has figured a case in which the penis had attained such an enormous size that it reached to below the knees, and was as large as a thigh. This monstrous growth was successfully excised. Warts on the penis have already been described. They may attain a very large size, as in Fig. 940, and are best treated by being snipped off with curved scissors. Horny Excrescences have been observed to spring from the glans penis.