TUBERCULOUS DISS ASK OF HIP: SYMPTOMS. 419 When the acetabulnm is perforated, the abscess forms between the obturator internus and the bone, the muscle being at last extensively destroyed. The pus is confined beneath the obturator fascia, which becomes greatly thickened, and shuts oflP the abscess from the general cavity of the pelvis. As the pus increases in quantity, it burrows upwards, and perforates the attachment of the obturator fascia at the brim of the pelvis, coming to the surface above or below Poupart's ligament. It very rarely if ever escapes by the small sciatic notch along the course of the tendon of the obturator internus, and it never reaches the great sciatic notch, being shut off by the thickened obturator fascia. When there is extensive necrosis of the pelvic bones, the abscess may find its way into the true pelvis, and point beside the rectum or open into the bowel; but this is rare in hip disease. Still more rarely the pus may escape from the front of the joint and get into the psoas muscle, forming a psoas abscess. When this occurs, it is probably due to the existence of a communication between the synovial membrane of the joint and the bursa beneath the psoas in front of the articulation. 5. When the abscesses have burst or been opened, Sinuses are left, an attentive examination of the position and direction of which is of importance in forming an opinion as to the seat of the osseous disease. There are three situations in which sinuses are met with, which vary according to their point of origin from the abscess, and the position of the diseased bone:— 1. When the abscess has originated in primary synovial tuberculosis, or when the disease has commenced in the head of the femur and subsequently implicated the joint, the pus usually takes the course above described and reaches the surface below and a little in front of the great trochanter, about the msertion of the tensor vagina femoris into the fascia of the limb. A smus in this situation indicates therefore almost invariably disease chiefly implicating the soft structures of the joint or the head of the femur A similar smus may, however, result from disease of the trochanter not extending to the joint. 2. When the sinus is in the gluteal region it may have originated in an abscess escaping fi-om the back of the joint as above described but not extending so far downwards ; not unft-equently, however, a similar sinus leads down to disease of the pelvic bones, a portion of the dorsum ilii being commonly the part involved. 3. The sinus may open in the pubic region either above or below Poupart s ligament; in this situation it is almost certainly diagnostic of disease of the pelvic bones. When it appears alove the ligament It almost invariably leads into an intrapelvic abscess due to perforation of the floor of the acetabulum ; when it opens heloio the ligament it very frequently is connected with disease of the ramus of the pubes or ischium It 18 only by attention to these circumstances that the Surgeon is enabled in many cases to form an approximate opinion as to the seat and extent of the OSS ons disease for the diseased bone is often so covered in by healthy osseou by inflamed and indurated tissues, that the probe cannot touch it • or windings.' ""'^ ' P^^^^ f^Uo^v its 0. Dislocation.-True dislocation of the head of the femur is a rirp occurrence m cases of tuberculous disease of the hip. It does, hXever some times happen that as the result of some slight injury to the joint acIual dTlo: E E 2