298 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. trephine. If, however, the anterior wall of the frontal sinus be the seat of the disease, or if the supraorbital ridge be affected, the diy and rough bone may safely be removed, as I have twice had to do, by the application of the trephine m the first instance, and of the gouge in the other case. When exfoliating necrosis of the outer table, or of the whole thickness of the bone, affects the vault of the skull, the loosened plate may readily be lifted off its granu- lating bed by means of the elevator or forceps, after it has been fairly exposed. Tubercle.—It has long been recognized that necrosis of the cranial bones not unfrequently occurs in strumous children, especially after measles and scarlet fever. It is now known that this is due to the deposit of tubercle in the bone. This may occur in the diploe or beneath the periosteum, and from the tendency which the disease has to destroy the whole thickness of the bone it has been spoken of by Volkmann as a " perforating necrosis." According to Konig the bones most frequently affected are the frontal, parietal, and • temporal ; the frontal bone in the region of the external angular process is the favourite seat of the disease. As a rule the lesion is single, but multiple foci may be present. A chronic abscess slowly forms over the diseased bone, and when this is opened the bone is found to be soft and carious and often perforated ; small sequestra may be present. Tuberculous disease of the temporal bone may affect the tympanum or mastoid process. The treatme?it of these cases must be carried out on the same lines as that of tuberculous bone disease elsewhere—the abscesses being freely opened and the soft granulation tissue and carious bone removed with a sharp spoon. The disease may be ex- tensive between the internal table and the dura mater, and great care must be taken that the latter be not injured. Results.—In all forms of necrosis of the cranial bones, there is the special danger of extension of inflammation to the membranes of the brain, and the consequent occurrence of effusion within the skull, leading to convulsions, coma, and death. This danger is greatest when the petrous portion of the temporal bone is affected, as the dura mater is continued into some of the canals by which it is perforated. Cerebral complication is less likely to occur when the frontal bone is the seat of disease, more particularly the lower part of this bone, where, by the intervention of the frontal sinuses, the anterior wall is altogether carried away from the inner table, and from all dangerous proximity to the membranes of the brain. Sternum.—Necrosis and caries of the sternum are by no means uncommon, the former as the result of the breaking down of a subperiosteal gumma, the latter from tuberculous disease of the cancellous tissue. In either case any part of the bone may be affected, but the manubrium is most frequently the seat of disease. In cases of tuberculous caries the bone may be completely perforated, and a considerable abscess-cavity may exist on its posterior surface. Under these circumstances it may be necessary to gouge away the bone freely around the perforation. Extensive resections of the sternum have also been practised for tuberculous disease. Ribs.—Tuberculous disease of the ribs is very common, and usually begins as a subperiosteal deposit. The bone may thus be superficially eroded or necrosis may occur; the inner surface of the rib is often chiefly afiFected.^ An abscess forms over the diseased bone and may communicate through an inter- costal space with a considerable collection of pus between the ribs and the