SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 198 if not occluded, nudergo dilatation, and thus continue to draw too large a current of blood through the sac for stratification of its contents to take place; and, if they were occluded, there would be danger of gangrene of the arm. Dupuytren h'gatured the axillary artery under the pectoral muscles for a case of subclavian aneurism, two arterial branches being divided in the incisions through the fat and areolar tissue ; and the patient died on the ninth day. This operation could not be expected to succeed; for between the ligature and the sac are the alar, acromial, and thoracic branches of the axillary artery, which would continue to be fed by a current sent through the aneurism. Laugier performed the distal operation in a supposed case of subclavian aneurism, which afterwards proved to be one of the innominate artery. In addition to Dupuytren's case, the operation has been done by P(3trequin, Schuh, and Canton, in all instances without benefit. 2. The. above-mentioned difficulties are met by a procedure, originally suggested, I believe, by Fergusson. It is Amputation of the Arm at the Shoulder-joint, followed by Distal Ligature of the Artery—a desperate undertaking, truly, but for a desperate disease which under ordinary surgical treatment is almost incurable. The artery might be ligatured before the amputation. " It is known," says Fergusson, " that amputation at the shoulder-joint is generally a very successful operation ; so far as this wound is concerned, then, there might be little to apprehend, but the effect on the tumour is not so easily foretold. Ligature of the axillary artery on the face of the stump might here be reckoned like Brasdor's operation ; yet there is a vast difference, for in the latter case the same amount of blood which previously passed towards the upper extremity would still find its way down, and probably part of it would run through the sac ; whereas were the member removed, as the same quantity would no longer be required in this direction, the tumour might possibly be much more under the control of pressure. The value of such a suggestion remains yet to be tested, however, and it would be futile to reason upon it at present. It might be a judicious venture first to tie the axillary under the clavicle ; and then, if it were found that the aneurism still increased, amputation might be performed, either immediately before or after the separation of the ligature." In the treatment of an aneurism of the first part of the subclavian artery, in which the simpler methods, especially distal pressure, had failed, I should recommend ligature of the artery in the third part of its course, and should this fail, amputation at the shoulder-joint. Should the aneurism occupy the third part of the artery, direct pressure on the sac is probably the best of the simpler methods of treatment. If these fail I should recommend amputation at the shoulder and Hgature of the artery as near the sac as possible. It is true that the ligature would be below the branches that are given off under the pectoral muscles ; but, as the arm would be removed, they could not undergo any dilatation for the supply of the collateral circulation of the upper extremity. ^ i 10 The first case in which this operation was performed, was by bpence m 1864 The patient lived for four years ; and, although the aneurism was not cured, the result afforded good promise of success for the future. For the first ten days after the operation, the pulsation was scarcely to be felt; and when the patient left the hospital the tumour had dimimshed to one-third of its former size. The artery was tied in two places-where it was cut and also just beyond the tumour. Before the patient's death-which probably