DIAGNOSIS OF INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. 909 The points which will engage the Surgeon's attention are :—1. The previous history. 2. The mode of invasion. 3. The general condition. 4. The ciiaracter of the pain. 5. The character of the vomiting. C. The duration and degree of constipation. 7. The physical examination of the belly. 8. Examination of the rectum. 9. The character and quantity of the urine. 1. The Previous History often throws much light upon the nature of the disease. In cases of internal sir angulation, and in intussusception, the patient has usually enjoyed good health up to the time of the obstruction, although in some cases there is a history of a previous attack of the same kind. If the other symptoms seem to point to strangulation by a band, diseases likely to cause local adhesions in the peritoneum, such as typhoid fever, typhhtis, or ovaritis in the female, may be inquired for. In Volvulus of the Sigmoid Flexure there is a history of habitual constipation. In cases of obstruction of the small intestine from impaction of a gall-stone, there will be a history of pro- longed pain and discomfort in the region of the gall-bladder during the time that the stone was making its way by ulceration into the intestine. In stricture of the small intestine suddenly occluded there is a long history of digestive troubles, attacks of colic, especially after food, and often of previous attacks of obstruction which have passed off. In chronic obstruction arising from gradual closure of a stricture there is a history of gradually increasing difficulty in obtaining relief from the bowels, with uneasiness and dyspepsia. Most commonly there have been periods of prolonged constipation followed by diarrhoea. These alternating periods of constipation and diarrhoea are very characteristic, and should always raise a suspicion of stricture, most probably in the great intestine. In Fcccal accumulation there has been chronic consti- pation of long duration. 2. Mode of Invasion.—In Internal strangulation the attack commences with severe pain, coming on so suddenly that the patient can state within an hour or less the exact time at which it seized him. In Volvulus of the sigmoid flexure the invasion is usually sudden, but commonly less so than in internal strangulation. In Impacted gall-stone the attack begins with uneasiness, increasing steadily in a few hours to actual pain. In Obstruction of a stricture of the small intestine the invasion is much like that of impacted gall-stone. In Acute intussusception the attack is usually very sudden. In all the Chronic obstructions except intussusception the symptoms develop gradually. 3. The General Condition of the Patient.—In Internal strangulation^ Volvulus, and Acute intussusception, there is usually early collapse, with a small, quick pulse, and a subnormal temperature. Thirst is often a prominent symptom. In Impacted gall-stone and Occluded stricture of the small gut, collapse is not marked. In the Chronic obstructions there is no shock or collapse, and exhaustion comes on gradually. The tongue is foul in all forms. 4. The Character of the Pain.—In Internal strangulation it is most intense, often amounting to agony. It is usually referred to the umbilical region. In Volvulus of the sigmoid flexure it is less intense and paroxysmal. Later on acute tenderness is present from peritonitis. In Impacted gall-stone the pain is not usually severe, sometimes little more than uneasiness. In Aciote intussusception the pain is severe and paroxysmal, often causing periodical screaming in children. In Chronic obstruction from Stricture of the great intestine or fcccal accumulation there is diffused uneasiness, and after a time