ATRESIA YAGINJE. 1277 Operative procedures undertaken with a view to remedy a prolapse of the floor of the ladder by excising a portion of the mucous n^embrane f ^h^ Ulterior vao-inal wall are by no means very satisfactory ; and the condition m ; ^st on may generally be best treated by the wearing of an artificial support in cases oi reSocele, on the other hand, much benefit may be derived ftw th usual operation for the repair of ruptured perin^eum, combined with the i^moval of a wedge-shaped portion of the redundant mucous membrane coveimg the prolapsed bowel, by which means the original outlet is narrowed and the pio- trusion supported. ,7 ^ A somewhat rare conditiou, termed sacculated dilaiahon of the urethra, m which the lower wall of this passage projects into the vaginal canal m the form of a small oval protrusion, causes much discomfort owing to the escape of the small amount of urine contained in the pouch subsequently to the com- pletion of micturition. The proper treatment consists m excising an elhptical portion of the vaginal mucous membrane underlying the urethra, and adapting the edges with silkworm-gut sutures. Congenital Aljsence of the Vaginal Canal is a rare malformation, usually associated with imperfect development of the uterus and its ap- pendages, but occasionally met with in women otherwise perfectly well formed as regards the external organs of generation and the mammary development. The actual condition may be detected by digital exploration of the rectum while a sound is in the bladder : the two cavities will be found in close apposition without any intervening organs, the point of the bladder sound being felt thinly covered through the gut. Complete Absence of the Uterus and Ovaries can be further confirmed, if desirable, by com- bined rectal and abdominal palpation while the patient is deeply anaesthetized. No surgical interference can be entertained in such cases ; and none is required, as the imperfect development of the uterus precludes the possibility of any menstrual accumulation. The condition known as Atresia Vaginae, or Imperforate Vagina, is one of congenital partial occlusion of the canal. The symptoms arising from it are identical with those caused by retention of the menstrual secretion in cases of imperforate hymen ; the chief dis- tinguishing feature from this latter condition being the absence in these cases of any notable bulging of the hymen at the vaginal outlet—a fact accounted for by the thickness of the obstructing tissues. Before attempting to restore the patency of the original canal, it is impor- tant to form a tolerably accurate idea of the depth of the obstruction and of the position of the distended sac by means of combined rectal and vesical exploration with a bladder sound. This latter should be retained in situ by an assistant in such a manner that the urethra and bladder may be kept well drawn upwards out of harm's way during the operatiou, while the Surgeon's left index finger in the rectum protects the bowel from injury, and serves as a guide in tearing through the septum. A transverse incision is now made over the seat of the hymen—about mid- way between the urethra and the anus, and the obstructing tissues are gradually torn through by the right forefinger of the operator, aided by occasional touches with the scalpel or scissors, until the distended sac is reached. This is punc- tured and evacuated with precautions similar to those already recommended in cases of imperforate hymen. The newly-restored canal is then carefully packed with strips of iodoform gauze, which should be replaced at the end of twenty-