596 TUMOURS OF TlllC NASAL FOSSJS. of silver or destroyed with the galvanic cautery, to diminish the risk oi return. At about the end of a fortnight the patient should be examined again, as it not unfrequently happens that small polypi, which had been prevented from descending into the nares by tlie presence of the larger ones, now come down and require removal. These procedures must be had recourse to from time to time, until all tendency to fresh formations of this kind has ceased. When the polypus is very large and hangs down into the pharynx the forceps may be guided to its bnse by the forefinger of the left hand passed from the mouth behind the soft palate. Polypi may also be removed by the galvanic dcraseur. To do this the nose is first rendered insensible by cocaine. A speculum is then inserted and a strong light thrown up the nostril. The loop of wire is then passed round the polypus and tightened up on its base. The current is then turned on and the pedicle is rapidly cut through without pain or bleeding. Large polypi passing down into the pharynx may also be removed by tlie simple wire- ecraseur or snare. The loop of wire is passed through the nose and expanded in the throat by the finger passed into the mouth. It is then tightened up and the pedicle cut through. In some instances the polypi attain a great size, producing absorption of the nasal bones, and of the nasal process of the superior maxilla. In such cases it may be necessary, in order to extract them, to slit up the nose, and clip away with forceps the osseous surface from which they spring. Fibrous Polypus.—Naso-pharyngeal Fibroma.—The term "fibrous polypus " is applied to a fibroma springing in exceedingly rai-e cases from the periosteum of the bones entering into the walls of the nasal cavity, but more commonly from the base of the skull, especially from the basilar process of the occipital bone and the under surface of the body of the sphenoid. Fibrous polypus is a disease of early life, seldom commencing before the tenth year or after the twentieth. As the tumour increases in size it gradually fills the upper part of the pharynx, and extends into the posterior part of the nasal cavity. Its surface is lobulated and covered by mucous membrane ; it is firm and resisting to the touch. In the earlier stages its form and size can be ascertained only by digitnl examination from the mouth, the finger being passed up behind the soft palate. In the later stages the tumour may be seen from the nostrils, and may appear below the soft palate, pushing this forward and seriously interfering with deglutition and finally with respiration. These tumours bleed freely, and may even be fatal directly from loss of blood. Microscopic examination shows that they are composed of fibrous tissue, with a varying number of flattened or oat-shaped cells between the fibres. They usually contain large tortuous dilated vessels, which form so prominent a feature in their structure that it has sometimes been suggested to term the growth fihro-angioma. When these vessels are opened by ulceration, or in an operation for removal of the growth, they bleed exceedingly freely, being unable to contract or retract owing to the density of the structure in which tliey lie. The p'ognosis is extremely unfavourable. If left unrelieved these growths usually cause death sooner or later either by hfemorrhage or by asphyxia, or in some cases by erosion of the base of the skull giving rise to brain symptoms. In some instances, however, they cease growing and undergo diminution in size.