EXCISION OF THE KNEE-JOINT. 449 < of the wound open ; 4. The use of an efficient splint to ensure absolute rest; \ and, 5. A lasting dressing. The Thomas's knee-splint should be worn con- tinuously for a year after the operation, and after this it is generally advisable ' to apply a leatliern splint for another year or more. Excision of the Knee-Joint was originally performed at the close of the ilast century by Park, Filkin, and the Moreaus, but it fell into disfavour until it was revived in 1850 by Fergusson, since which time it has been extensively ( practised. As a means of treating tuberculous disease of the joint, excision. i has been much less frequently ;| practised during the last few years, having been to a large extent replaced by arthrectomy. In growing children arthrectomy should, as a general rule, be the method adopted. After growth has ceased, arthrectomy has little advantage over excision, which for reasons already given (p. 43]), may therefore be looked upon as the operation of choice. It was at one time recom- t mended that excision of the knee I should not be undertaken after I the age of 30, but that ampu- i tation should be performed. This rule must now be modified, and even in middle-aged patients. Pig. 5S5.—Elliptical incision m Excision of the Knee-joiut. whose general condition is good, and in whom the local disease is not too extensive, excision may be given a ! trial : thus Gant has recorded cases successfully operated upon as late as 53. I After middle age, however, tuberculous disease of the knee is usually an indication for amputation. Excision must also be abandoned in favour of amputation if there is very extensive bone disease, or infiltration of the soft parts, or if there is tuberculous disease of the lungs, or albumenoid degeneration of the viscera. In neglected cases in which sinuses are present and deformity—usually i flexion and displacement of the tibia backwards—exists, excision may be I required before the faulty position can be remedied. At the International Congress of 1881 Kocher of Berne maintained that in tuberculous disease, excision of the knee ensures a more rapid cure and a better limb than any conservative method of treatment, but this view is not generally accepted, although there is considerable difPerence of opinion on the matter. Thus, many Surgeons, whilst allowing that excision should only be employed among the upper and middle classes, and in country practice, when all other means have failed, have become so disheartened by repeated failures to cure white swelling of the knee in the children of the poor of large cities, that they have resorted to excision at a very early period. It is not wise, however, to adopt a uniform mode of treatment for all cases ; each should be dealt with on its own merits. The operation may be performed by making a horse-shoe incision with VOL. II. G Or