482 DISEASES OF THE SPINE. dorsal, and may occur at auy part. R. W. Parker states that iu 149 chbos, the disease was iu the cervical region in !), in the dorsal in 82, in the dornij- lumbar in 21, and in the lumbar or lumbo-sacral in 37. Symptoms.—Caries of the spine commonly begins, especially in children, in a very insidious manner. It occurs usually in strumous children, and is generally referred to a fall or blow on the back. The symptom that most often first attracts attention is the child's attitude, which is altered and very charac- teristic. The body is held stiffly straight and upright; it is neither bent n-.i' turned to one side when the child moves, but the spine is moved as a whole and in a rigidly fixed manner. The shoulders are raised, the chin is thrown up, and the toes are slightly turned in. The child walks with great cauthjn, and very stiffly. One of the earliest symptoms complained of is often an ill-defined superficial pain extending round the trunk, more severe, perhaps, on one side than on the other, and occasionally referred to the stomach. After a time the child becomes unable to stand upright unsupported, has a tendency to lean the body forwards, or to support it by resting the hands on the knees, or by seizing hold of anything that will serve as a temporary support, such as a chair or table. If asked to pick up an object from the floor, it will go carefully down upon its hands and knees instead of stooping in the natural way. It will h: found also that the child experiences great difficulty in raising itself without assistance from the horizontal into the sitting position, or in turning sideways in bed without the use of its arms. On examination, one or two of the spines, usually about the middle of the back, will be found to be a little more prominent than the rest; and on pressing or tapping upon them, pain may be complained of. The child becomes stunted in its growth ; and, if the disease be not arrested by proper treatment, will continue more or less hump- or round-backed for life. In other cases the disease will run on to the formation of abscess, as will immediately be described, tuberculous disease occurring elsewhere, and death eventually resulting. In adults, the danger and the symptoms vary according to the seat ot the affection. It is most dangerous, often indeed rapidly fatal, when the cervical vertebrae are implicated ; for, as the bodies of these are shallow, caries readily penetrates to the spinal canal, and the cord or its membranes may thus be imphcated. When the dorsal or lumbar vertebra become diseased, the attec- tion is not so immediately serious to the Hfe, as it may be to the figure of the patient. In adults, it often commences with obscure flying pam m the loins or back, resembling rheumatism, shooting round the body or down the thighs. On examining the spine, which feels weak to the patient, and which, as in the child, is incapable of supporting him or of enabling him to raise or turn him- self without assistance, tenderness on pressure or on tapping may be experiencea at one point, and he will wince when a sponge wrung out of hot water is applied to this part of the spine; although there may be no appearance of excnrvation, the skin covering it is often hyper«sthet,K3. After a time, how- ever, the spmous process of one or more vertebrae will be found ^ pro eot distinctly beyond the general line of the column. The part becomes the seat of constant aching pain, increased by movement or by P^'eBBn^g/P^^^.'^^f.j or shoulders. It must, however, be remembered that caries of the bodies o he vertebiv. may take' place to a considerable extent wit^i little ™^^^^^ curvature. In these cases all the ordinary symptoms of canes of the spine