EXCISION OF THE ELBOW. away from its attachment. If the periosteum is swollen and loosened by inflammation, this may be wholly or in part done with a periosteal elevator, and the connexion between the tendon and the periosteum may be preserved ; more commonly, however, the knife has to be used. After the triceps is separated, the . remaining soft parts must be carefully turned off the inner side till the internal I condyle comes into view. In doing this the edge of the knife should always be kept against the bones, or the periosteal elevator may be used, so that the ulnar nerve may be turned over the inner condyle without injury. If the incision be properly made and the knife kept in contact with the bone, the nerve ought not to be exposed during the operation, more particularly as it is usually embedded in the inflamed tissues surrounding it. When the inner side of the joint has been sufficiently cleaned the soft parts must be turned back in the same way on the outer side. In doing this it is very important to save un- injured the strong tendinous expansion that passes from the triceps over the Fig. 552.—Excision of Elbow-joint; |—sliaped Incision. Fig. 554.—Excision of Elbow-joint by Longitudinal Incision. Fig. 553.—Excision of Elbow by |—shaped Inci- sion. Bones exposed. Ulnar Nerve indistinctly seen. surface of the anconeus, to be attached to the posterior border of the ulna. If this be preserved, the connexion between the triceps and the ulna is maintained, ! and the patient will regain the power of active extension of the joint when recovery has taken place. When the posterior part of the joint has thus been laid bare, the tip of the olecranon should be removed by cutting forceps, so as to give free access to the articulation. The limb is next flexed forcibly till the forearm touches the arm, the humerus being held vertically at right angles to the table ; the forearm is at the same time pulled towards the table. The lateral ligaments being then divided by a touch of the knife, the articular surface of the humerus projects from the wound, and can be removed by a narrow saw cutting from the anterior surface. If the sawn inner condyle form too sharp a point, a small piece may be removed with the bone-fOrceps. The bones of the forearm are then forced out of the wound by the assistant and cleaned with the elevator or knife till the cartilage-covered surfaces are sufficiently exposed to be removed by the saw. The brachial artery is so com-