ARTERITIS OBLITERANS. 93 The loss of elasticity iii the coats seriously interferes with the circulation through distant parts, as the natural storage of the heart's force in the elastic walls of the larger vessels by which the continuous flow between one systole and another is maintained is no longer possible. The circulation in the extremities is, therefore, usually feeble, and the nutrition of the parts correspondingly imperfect. Narrateing or Occlusion of the Branches leaving the Atheromatous Trunl'c is by no means uncommon. As before stated, the orifices of the branches from the main trunk are common seats of the earliest atheromatous patches. The thickening of the intima may take place in a ring round the mouth of the vessel and thus gradually narrow it. The coincident thickening of the outer coat may still further contract the orifice. When complete obliteration occurs the final obstruction probably takes place by the formation of a thrombus in the diseased artery immediately above the narrowed orifice. Complete obliteration is most common in those cases in which the dilatation of the main tnmk has reached such a degree as to merit the name of a fusiform aneurism. In a case in University College Hospital a few years ago, in which the left carotid was tied for aneurism of the innominate artery and the arch of the aorta with an immediately fatal result, it was found that the right subclavian was obliterated where it left the dilated innominate, the right carotid was per- vious, but pressed on by the aneurism, and the aortic opening of the left subclavian was completely closed ; thus the artery which was tied was the only vessel carrying blood to the brain. Karrowing of the coronary arteries by an atheromatous ring at their orifices is a common cause of fatty heart. Thrombosis is an occasional consequence of atheroma. So long as the patch is covered by an unbroken layer of the inner coat with its endothelial covering, there is no tendency for coagulation to take place upon it. When, however, the patch has softened and has been discharged into the circulation, leaving an- " atheromatous ulcer," or when the thin covering over a calcareous plate has been worn away, the diseased structures come into direct contact with the blood. If the surface is tolerably smooth, the rush of blood past the diseased patch is so rapid that adhesion of the corpuscles is barely possible and consequently no thrombosis results ; but in pouch-like dilatations it readily takes place. In the same way it may occur in a very dilated vessel if the heart's action is unusually feeble. A clot thus formed may gradually increase in size till it fills the whole vessel, but more commonly after reaching a certain bulk it is washed away and can-ied on as an embolus to some distant part. If it be of sufficient size to obstruct a main artery of one of the limbs at its bifurcation, gangrene will frequently result. Smaller fragments lodging in the extremities usually produce no important effects, the anastomosing circulation being sufficient to take the place of the obstructed vessel. If lodging in one of the solid viscera it gives rise to a hemorrhagic infarct (see Yol. I., p. 981), but does not as a rule cause any serious consequences. Syphilitic Endarteritis has already been described (Yol. I m 11-32 and 1134). ^ i f- • Arteritis Obliterans (Friedliinder). Endarteritis Proliferans (Von Winiwarter).—Under these names have been described certain rare cases in which obliteration of arteries takes place as the result of inflammatory chano-es in their coats, not evidently dependent on syphilis, embolism or injury Similar changes have also .been noted in the veins. The disease usually runs