ii86 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. in most cases soon passes off, being less likely to recur as the urethra .^ets mor« accustomed to the use of instruments. " If a person liable to these nervous feelingB is exposed to a chill, a severe Igor may come on some hours after the passage of the instrument, or the su, thing may happen when tliere has been no predisposition to t, the coming on suddenly and without warning. This is more apt to ;ccur X the stricture ,s tight; when metallic instruments have beei used-poss b v with some degree of force, and, though during a considerable length of timei perhaps in vain attempts to penetrate the stricture. The rigors in these cir ciimstauces are very severe, so much so as to resemble an attack of ague i;uring the rigor the temperature rises considerably, often to 104° or 1 he subsidence of the rigor is marked by profuse sweating, and is usually attended with great exhaustion. This occurrence is always very alarming and though usually not attended with positive danger, leaves the patient weak and exhausted ; and if he be old, of broken constitution, or the subject of chronic kidney disease, a fatal result may rapidly ensue. In these distressing cases death may occur at different periods and in different ways. The earliest period at which I have seen a fatal termination has been in nine hours • usually it takes place in from 24 to 48 hours after the first rigor. The imme^ diate cause of death may be coma, exhaustion, or cardiac syncope. The cause of these rigors is exceedingly obscure. Constitutional nervousness or timidity has certainly nothing to do with them. They occur in the strongest and most courageous men, and they very rarely follow the use of the catheter m women. I have only once seen these effects in the female, in the person of a young married lady, strong and healthy, who had a stricture of the orifice of the urethra, which I dilated by a two-bladed dilator. Twenty hours after the operation, she had three most intense rigors followed by profuse sweatings. In men they may occur after dilatation of any part of the urethra, but they are much more frequent when the stricture is seated in the bulb or in the membranous portion of the canal. I have heard of one case, however, in which a fatal rigor followed incision and dilatation of the meatus. I doubt whether severe rigors occur unless there have been some traumatic lesion, such as abrasion or rupture of the mucous membrane of the urethra. Eigors certainly follow the use of metallic instruments more frequently than that of the softer kinds, which are less likely to produce such mischief. Rigors are not prevented by the use of anaesthetics. Some of the worst cases that I have seen have occurred after prolonged instrumentation under ansesthetics. Treatment.—The rigor is best prevented by gentleness in the use of instru- ments ; by the employment of soft, rather than metallic ones ; by guarding most carefully against a chill, the patient being kept in a warm room during the whole of the day ; and by the administration of a full dose of opium and ^ j| quinine before the use of the instrument. ^^91 AVhen a rigor has set in, the patient should be wrapped up in blankets: a glass of hot spirits and water or tea may be given, to be followed up by quinine and opium. The sweating, which is often so profuse as to wet through pillows and bed-clothes, must be encouraged. When it has ceased, the patient should be rubbed dry and wrapped in dry warm blankets. Suppression of Urine is a rare accident after simple dilatation, being more common after the more severe methods of treatment, such as forcible ^1