29 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF NEURALGIA. the orbifc. The nerve lies rather deeply, but can be stretched subcutaneously in the same way as the supra-orbital, by punctiiriug the skin with a tenotome and grappling- for the nerve with a blunt hook, the point of which is made to scrape along the bone below the foramen. When stretching it, the upper lip and cheek must be di'awn forcibly downwards. Subcutaneous section can be done in the same situation with a tenotome. To expose the nerve a curved incision, arranged so as to fall into the lines of the face, and about one inch in length, should be made with its mid-point over the foramen. After dividing the skin the levator labii superioris must be cut through, and the nerve then comes into view, and when the bleeding has been arrested, can be exposed and stretched or excised. This operation, however, can be of little use when the teeth are the seat of the neuralgic pain, as the anterior dental nerve is not affected by the section. To divide this, it is recommended by Malgaigne to make the incision parallel to the margin of the orbit and immediately below it. A few fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum are cut through, the origin of the levator labii superioris turned doAvn and the nerve thus exposed at the foramen. The palpebral ligament is then separated from the margin of the orbit, and pushed upwards with the fat and the eyeball so as to expose the floor of the orbit. The nerve is next cut through as it lies in the canal in the floor of the orbit, with a strong tenotome, which is made to penetrate the antrum, and the terminal branch being seized in a pair of forceps at the infra-orbital foramen, it is forcibly dragged out of the canal by which the anterior dental branches are ruptured. The free part is then cut off. This operation is apt to be followed by suppuration in the antrum and orbit. Langenbeck and Hiiter have recommended that instead of opening up the orbit, the nerve should be divided subcutaneously just before it enters the canal. To do this a puncture is made in the skin immediately below the outer commissure of the lids, and a blunt tenotome is pushed backwards and downwards till its point is felt to be in the spheno-maxillary fissure. The nerve is then pulled forcibly where it has been exposed at the infra-orbital foramen, while the tenotome is made to shave along the maxillary border of the fissure. As soon as the trunk is divided, it can be pulled out of the canal. On account of the frequent failure of these simpler methods numerous operations have been devised for the free excision of the superior maxillary nerve with or without Meckel's ganglion. This may be done through the antrum, as recommended by Carnochan. A Y-shaped incision is made below the orbit, one limb commencing on the lower margin near the inner canthus, the other beginning half an inch below the outer canthus, and the two join- ing each other at a point below the infra-orbital foramen. The flap is turned upwards and the nerve traced to the canal. From the apex of the Y an incision is made vertically downwards through the cheek and upper lip into the mouth. The whole anterior wall of the antrum is then exposed by raising the flap with the periosteum from the bone. The palpebral ligament is 1;hen divided and the fat of the orbit raised. A small piece of the margin of the orbit must then be cut away, so as to expose the nerve in its canal, the antrum being opened at the same time. The anterior wall of the antrum must then be freely removed, so as to give sufficient room. The posterior wall is next per- forated with a chisel or trephine and the fragments removed, so as to open up the spheno-maxillary fossa. The nerve may now be followed back and divided