ACROMEGALY. hypertrophied. The speech is often slow, and the voice deep and harsh. Amongst the symptoms of which the patients complain may be mentioned headache and severe aching pains in the limbs with general debility and depression ; the appetite may be increased, and excessive thirst has been a troublesome symptom in some cases. According to Marie the onset of the disease in females is often accompanied by ameuorrhoea. Diagnosis.—Acromegaly is easily distinguished from myxoedema by the fact that in the latter affection the swelling is limited to the soft parts. The principal differences between acrorhegaly and osteitis deformans are, according to Marie, that in the former the face, and in the latter the cranium is chiefly enlarged ; in acromegaly the general outline of the face is oval, in osteitis deformans triangular ; in acromegaly the hands and feet are chiefly affected and the bones are merely enlarged, whereas in osteitis deformans the long bonet are chiefly affected and become remarkably deformed; acromegaly usually occurs before 35, osteitis deformans after 40. A remarkable condition has been described by Marie under the name of " hypertrophic pulmonary osteo- arthropathy," in which enlargement of Ithe bones and joints occurs as the result of chronic pulmonary disease. In this affection the enlargement of the hands affects chiefly the wrist and fingers, the extremities of the latter being bulbous. Marie has also pointed out the features which distinguish acromegaly from a rare affection of the bones of the face, first described by Virchow under the name of leontiasis ossea. It seems hardly likely that the two diseases can be mistaken. Leontiasis ossea is characterized by great and irregular enlarge- ment of the face and bones, the two upper jaws being as a rule first affected. Masses of bone project externally and also fill the antra and block the nose. The affection very slowly spreads to the other bones of the face and even to those of the cranium. The new bone is spongy in structure. In the few recorded cases the disease has begun in early life, but nothing definite is known as to its causation. ^ Pathological Anatomy.—The most remarkable condition which has been met with in the post-mortem examination of cases of acromegaly is enlarge- ment of the pituitary body. In seven autopsies collected by Souza-Leite this condition was constantly present, but in more than one of the fatal cases in this country the pituitary body appeared normal. In one case the gland was as large as a hen's egg, and in another it pressed upon the optic commissure and nerves, causing optic neuritis and blindness. The enlargement appears to affect the anterior lobe of the gland, and in a case examined by Marie and Marinesco, these observers found true hypertrophy of the glandular tissue, associated with degenerative changes and fibrous overgrowth. In Godlee's case the enlargement affected only the right half of the anterior lobe ; the microscopic appearances differed from those of the normal gland in an irregu- larity of the gland tubes and the cells lining them. Atrophy of the thyroid, sclerosis of the sympathetic gangha and persistence of the thymus are among the other conditions which have been met with. The enlargement of the bones is apparently the result of a new formation of spongy osseous tissue and is associated with some rarefaction of the whole bone. The only Treatment which has hitherto been adopted is purely sympto- matic. The headache, which may be the most troublesome symptom, has been relieved by antipyrin.