678 DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. CHAPTER LVIl. DISEASES OF THE MOUTH AND THROAT. DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. Tongue-Tie.—Infants and even adults are said to be tongue-tied, when the frrenuQi lingui© is shorter than usual, causing the end of the tongue to be slightly bifid, depressed, and fixed, so that it cannot be protruded beyond the incisors. If this malformation be considerable, suckling and distinct articula- tion may be interfered with ; and then division of the fold becomes necessary, which may readily be done by snipping it across with a pair of round-ended scissors ; the risk of wounding the ranine arteries being avoided by keeping the point of the scissors downwards towards the floor of the mouth. Hypertrophy and Prolapsus of the Tongue or Macro-glossia is occasionally met with, either as a congenital or an acquired condition. Of 113 cases collected by A. E. Barker, in only 39 was it apparently acquired, and in most of these it appeared at a very early age. In this condition, the tongue lolls out of the mouth with constant dribbling of saliva, is greatly swollen, of a purplish colour, but somewhat dry. If the swelling have existed for a long time, it may give rise to deformity of the teeth, and of the alveolus of the lower jaw, which is pushed forwards. The pro- truded tongue is liable to attacks of subacute inflammation, which lead to its still further increasing in size. The Pathology of this condition was first clearly pointed out by Yirchow. There is a great overgrowth of the interstitial connective tissue of the tongue, and in this tissue are found dilated lymphatic vessels of considerable size, and spaces filled with lymphoid cells. It presents, therefore, a close analogy to elephantiasis. The dilated condition of the lymphatics is regarded as the primary change, and thus the disease is often spoken of as " lymphangioma of the tongue." This view of its pathology is supported by the occasional association of macro-glossia with cystic hygroma of the neck. In the Treatment of this disease pressure has been attempted by strapping the protruding part, but without benefit. Ex- cision of a portion of the tongue with the knife or scissors is the only efficient remedy. In some cases the removal of a V-shaped piece will give the best result. This operation was successfully performed^by C. Heath in the case from which the accompanyiug drawing was taken (Fig. 738). Fiji rSS.—Macro-ulossia.