397 EXCISION OF THE WRIST. man in whom the whole carpus and a portion of the bases of the metacarpal bones were removed, and who recovered with a very useful hand, with some power of flexing and extending the wrist, and with very considerable mobility of the fingers. To Lister, and to West of Birmingham, however, is due the merit of proving the practicability of the operation. The mode of operating plimned by the former of these Surgeons will be described here. But before giving the details of this operation, it may be well to mention the principles on which it is founded. On looking at the movements of the wrist-joint, it will be seen that they are somewhat limited in extent, so that if tolerably firm fibrous ankylosis can be obtained between the lower ends of the radius and ulna aud the upper ends of the metacarpal bones, the normal amount of movement is maintained. Should these movements be lost or should the union be so loose as to necessitate the application of a rigid apparatus to support the wrist, the hand may still be perfectly useful, the lost movement of the wrist being supple- mented by those of flexion and extension at the elbow. But the hand cannot be useful if the flexion and extension of the fingers be seriously interfered with. The essential principle of Lister's operation is to preserve uninjured all the tendons concerned in the movements of the thumb and fingers. If we look at the tendons that surround the wrist, we shall find them divisible into five gi'oups : 1. Those special to the thumb; 2. The extensors of the fingers; 3. The flexors of the fingers ; 4 and 5. The extensors and the flexors of the wrist. Now the incisions are so planned as to save the whole of the first three groups, and to divide only the tendons of the wrist proper, and these are cut so close to their insertions that as a rule they form new attachments and resume their functions as recovery takes place. Lister's Operation.—From the result of two cases of severe injury to the wrist-joint, which recovered with useful hands, Lister was led to the conclu- sion that, with proper after-treatment, the tendons about the wrist might be very freely handled without permanent stiffness resulting. At the same time, he hoped by removing the whole of the cartilaginous surfaces to be able to prevent recurrence of the disease—which is the common ending of cases of partial excision of the wrist-joint for caries of the carpus. At the time when he published his papers, he had performed the operation of excision of the wrist fifteen times. The method of operating was essentially the same in all; various small details being altered as experience suggested. The opera- tion, as he now performs it, is done as follows. Esmarch's bandage and tourniquet should be applied, as without them the oozing of blood interferes considerably with the operation. Any adhesions of the tendons then existino- must be forcibly broken down by moving the joints. An incision is now made "from about the middle of the dorsal aspect of the radius, on a level with the styloid process, downwards and outwards towards the inner side of the raetacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the thumb ; but, on reaching the line of the radial border of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, it is carried down- wards longitudinally for half the length of that bone." This incision should commence in the angle formed by the tendons of the common extensor of the fingers and the extensor longus pollicis, and the upper part should run parallel to the latter tendon, but without injuring it. The tendon of the extensor carpi radiahs brevior will be cut, but that of the longior will escape for the preseut, and the angle formed by the two parts of the incision should be close to the inner side of its insertion. If the first part of the incision be earned