DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 32 edges of the fascia being held apart with retractors, the masseter is divided in its posterior two-thirds. Bleeding is arrested by the apphcation of liot lotion and during the deeper parts of the dissection the wound should be illuminated with an electric light worn on the forehead. The periosteum is next separated from the exposed portion of the jaw, and the sigmoid notch, posterior border of the corouoid process and the neck of the jaw defined. The notch is eularged downwards as far as the dental foramen by taking out a small ring of bone with a trephine over the position of the foramen, and tlien cutting away the bridge of bone which remains between the sigmoid notch and the trephine hole with bone forceps. The position of the foramen is indicated in the adult by a point from 12 to 15 millimetres below the sigmoid notch. Horsley recommends that before apply- ing the trephine the lines to which the bone forceps will be applied should be marked by a series of drill-holes just penetrating the bone. On dividing the periosteum on the inner surface of the jaw the inferior dental nerve and artery are seen. The nerve is secured by a silk ligature and divided at the dental foramen. By the use of narrow retractors the nerve may be traced up behind the border of the external pterygoid muscle and again divided a short distance below the foramen ovale. The lingual nerve which lies half an inch internal to, and a little in front of, the inferior dental, may be similarly treated. It may be found necessary to divide the internal maxillary artery between two ligatures. In three cases in which recurrence of the pain occurred after the inferior dental nerve had been excised in the manner above described, Horsley has exposed the foramen ovale by a modification of the Pancoast-Salzer operation. A flap is turned down from the temporal region as far as the zygoma ; the latter is divided and turned downwards with the masseter; the upper part of the coronoid process together with the lower part of the temporal muscle is removed ; and, finally, by detaching the external pterygoid muscle from the sphenoid with an elevator the foramen ovale is exposed. In two cases Horsley " proceeded with a suitable long-handled trephine to remove the bottom of the middle fossa of the skull between the foramen ovale and the foramen rotundum," and severed the branches of the fifth nerve within the skull and removed them freely outside. In the third case the skull was not opened but the nerve was removed from the foramen ovale. In two of these cases the result was satis- factory, but in the third case the pain recurred in the distribution of the first division. As a last resource in some forms of trigeminal neuralgia in which all other operative measures have failed, excision of the Gasserian ganglion has been practised. This formidable operation was first undertaken by William Eose in 1890. He reached the ganglion by trephining the base of the skull at the position of the foramen ovale. The foramen is exposed by turning the zygoma with the masseter downwards, the coronoid process and temporal muscle upwards, and separating the external pterygoid from the sphenoid. After applying the trephine around, or in front of, the foramen ovale, the ganglion is removed with a specially made cutting hook. The first two patients operated upon by Eose were free from pain after twenty-two months and twelve months respectively. Hartley and Krause have reached the ganglion by turning down a flap of scalp and bone from the temporal region. Horsley, who believes complete extirpation of the Gasserian ganglion to be impossible