9°o INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. necessarily a very rare form of obsti-uction, as stricture of this portion of tlifi alimentary canal is seldom met with. It is said, iiowever, to occm- aa the result of cicatrisation of tuberculous ulcers, which tend to spread circularly round the gut. Typhoid ulcers, which are longitudinal, probably never cause contraction. Syphilitic, catarrhal, and peptic ulcers have also been described but that they ever cause stricture is very doubtful. Treves mentions six cases of stricture after injury, four after strangulated hernia, and two after external violence, (^ancerous stricture of the small intestine is more common than simple, but it also is very rare. Narrowing of the small intestine may also be caused by a coil being kinked and fixed in this position by adhesions, by chronic peritonitis often tuberculous, causing sometimes a matting together of many contiguous coils of gut, the lumen being narrowed possibly in more than one place. The Special Symptoms of Obstruction from narrowing of the Small Intestine are not very definite. The patient has usually"suffered, often for years, from occasional attacks of abdominal pain, commonly described as colic. These most frequently occur after meals, especially if some indigestible food has been taken. In some cases attacks of vomiting and obstruction have occurred and passed off, perhaps ending in diarrhoea, more than once before the final obstruction. The final attack closely resembles that already described as occurring in impaction of a foreign body. If the stricture is low down, the symptoms develop less rapidly. Stricture of the Ileo-Caecal Valve is a rare aflFection. Treves has collected 8 cases, 3 of which were simple and 5 cancerous. It generally gives rise to the usual symptoms of stricture of the lower part of the ileum, but in a case of carcinoma of the iIeo-C£ecal valve recently in University College Hospital, there was great distension of the abdomen, and an absence of vomiting, although complete obstruction had existed for two weeks before death. In these respects the symptoms suggested stricture of the large intestine rather than of the small. 5. Acute Intussusception.—The invagination of one portion of intestine into another is a common form of intestinal obstruction, especially in children. It forms about oO per cent, of all cases. The upper portion of the intestine la invaginated into the lower. To this rule a very few exceptions have been recorded. According to Leichtenstern, 44 per cent, of all cases are seated at the ileo-csecal valve, the valve itself forming the apex of the invagination. The next most frequent seat is in the small intestine, especially in the lower jejunum, 30 per cent, occurring in this region. Eighteen per cent, are met with in the rectum, and in 8 per cent, the invagination has occurred in the lower part of the ileum, the invaginated portion passing through the ileo-c«cal valve, and being grasped by it. An intussusception is composed of three tubes of intestine, one within the other. The innermost tube is spoken of as the entering tube. The middle on reflected tube is turned inside out, so that its serous coat is in contact with that of the entering tube. In the space between these two tubes lies the mesentery belonging to each, and the vermiform appendix in those cases in which the cacum forms the reflected tube. The whole mass thus formed is termed the intussusceptum. The external tube is termed the ensheathing tube or intussuscipiens. It is most commonly thrown into numerous folds at its upper part, which can be straightened out by slight traction, thus giving rise to