PERINyEAL ABSCESS. ^207 Perineal Abscess.-By perineal abscess is meanfc a ^f^f<^-^ the penna3um situated under the deep l^J^^' f ^^^^^^ region. It is the confinement of the pus by the ^^f^^X'faso a abscesses their special character. Owing to the attachments of the deep faso which have just been described, the pus formed m connexion with the uretnra is shut off from the ischio-rectal fossa, just as f^^ravasated urine is^ K t^^^^ abscess be left unrelieved, it may burrow widely around the bulb and alon the urethra before it reaches the surface by perforating the fa cia. It is veiy important, therefore, that such abscesses should be opened early. The chief forms of perinseal abscess met with are the followmg :- 1. Abscesses arising from Suppuration in a lacuna or roUxcular Gland.-These have already been described as an occasional ^omphcat on ot c^onorrhoea. They are met with also in stricture. They may point slowly Towards the surface, without actually communicating with the urethral canal • In other cases they open into the urethra, and then run the same course as abscesses commencing from the canal. -u^-uc^^ 2 Abscesses commencing from Ulceration m the Urethra behind a Stricture.-These arise in the dilated pouch behind a tight stricture. As before stated, the mucous membrane at this part is thickened and opaque, and often pigmented, showing evidence of chronic inflammation. The openmgs of the ducts are dilated, sometimes giving the whole surface a reticulated ap- pearance. The ulceration commences in one of the hollows thus formed. The inflammatory consolidation of the surrounding tissues prevents general extra- vasation ; but the pressure during micturition and the constant presence ot retained urine causes gradual extension of the cavity till a distinct abscess is formed discharging imperfectly into the urethra. Such an abscess slowly extends till it reaches the surface. It then bursts, its cavity contracts to a narrow channel, and thus a urinary fistula is formed. At any period before it bursts superficially, its wall may be ruptured during a violent effort at mictu- rition, and diffuse extravasation of urine may result. 3. Abscesses from Injuries by Instruments.—These occasionally arise from false passages made with a catheter or bougie ; they may also follow for- cible dilatation or internal urethrotomy. More rarely they result fi'om inflam- mation and ulceration of the mucous membrane around an instrument tied into a tight stricture. These abscesses usually form rapidly. If resulting from a false passage behind a tight stricture, they may lead to extravasation of urine ; but under other circumstances, as there is a free passage through the urethra, this is not likely to occur. If the injury is in the bulbous or spongy portion, the pus may burrow forwards along the urethra under the accelerator urinse, and appear at the root of the penis in front of the scrotum. 4. Suppuration of Cowper's Gland is an occasional cause of a perineal abscess. It may occur from the irritation of a stricture, but far more com- monly it is met with during the acute stage of gonorrhoea. The gland can at ih'st be felt as a tender knot on one side of the middle line near the bulb. This gradually increases and becomes more tender, and at last fluctuation is felt. This form of abscess can be recognized, if seen early, by its situation, and by the fact that it is distinctly on one side of the middle line. At a later period it may burrow widely round the bulb and in the peringeum, so that its exact origin cannot be determined. It usually causes some difiiculty in micturition.