926 OPERATIONS ON THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. CHAPTER LXIIL OPERATIONS ON THE PERITONEUM AND ABDOMIN\L VISCERA.—TUMOURS OF THE GROIN. TAPPING THE ABDOMEN. PARACENTESIS ABDOMINIS. The abdomen often requires Tapping, either for general oi- encysted ascites. This operation, which is' one of the simplest in surgery, may be performed as follows: The bladder having been emptied, the patient is seated on the edge of the bed or of a large chair, or if very weak lies on the side, and has a broad flannel roller, split at each end to within six inches of the middle, passed round the body in such a way that the untorn part covers the front of the abdomen, whilst the ends, which are crossed behind, are given to an assistant on each side, who must draw tightly upon them as the water flows. The Surgeon then, seating himself before the patient, and having ascertained that there is absolute dulness at the point at which he intends to operate, thrusts the trochar through the abdominal wall about two inches below the umbilicus. It was formerly customary to make a superficial incision with a scalpel through the skin and fat before inserting the trochar, but this is a needless complication. As the fluid escapes, the patient often becomes faint; but this may commonly be guarded against by continuing to draw upon the bandage so as to keep up good pressure on the abdomen. After all the fluid ' has escaped, the aperture must be closed with a strip or two of plaster supported by a pad and bandage, or a pad of iodoform or salicylic wool covered with collodion. The siphon-trochar, Fig. 777, p. 758, will be found the most convenient instrument. It should not be too large lest the opening should leak after the operation. Should the situation of the accumulation of fluid in encysted ascites not allow its withdraw££l by an aperture below the umbilicus, the abdomen may be tapped in any other convenient situation, except in the course of the epigastric vessels. Ascitic fluid may also be removed by the aspirator, but in the abdomen this instrument presents no advantages over the ordinary siphon-trochar. Southey, believing that a gradual withdrawal of the fluid is most advau- tao-eous, avoiding the risk of syncope and the necessity of bandaging the patient, has devised a small " drainage-trochar," which can be left in until the distension is relieved. The fluid flows steadily from it at the rate of from ten to twenty ounces per hour, through a fine india-rubber tube. This method of relieving ascites has been found very efficacious. It has no tendency to set up peritonitis, and is almost painless. LAPAROTOMY POR PERITONITIS. Acute Peritonitis.—Laparotomy for acute peritonitis may be undertaken with the object of removing such inflammatory products as are already present