TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF HIP: COURSE. 421 acetabnliitn without suppuration, osseous ankylosis may ensue with but little shortening of the limb. Having now considered separately the principal phenomena of chronic hip-joint disease, it remains to give a brief sketch of the course of a typical case, and the methods of examination. The first symptom that usually attracts attention is, that the child limps and walks in a peculiar shuflBing, hopping manner ; he does not stand firmly upon both feet, but rests on the toes of the afi'ected limb, the knee of which is bent. This may be the only symptom when the child comes under observation, but in many cases pain of the character already described is also present (p. 415). At this stage of the disease, for the reasons already given, the patient will often refer to the knee rather than the hip as the seat of pain, and a careless Surgeon might be misled and treat the wrong joint; the more so, as there is not unfrequently a good deal of cutaneous sensibihty about the inner side of the knee-joint. In examining the case the Surgeon should have the child stripped, and then note the exact position of the limb. At this early stage a varying degree of flexion at the hip is always present, and is associated with a corresponding lordosis of the lumbar spine (p. 417) ; at the same time there is usually abduction of the hmb with slight external rotation. Viewed from behind it will be noticed that the gluteal fold on the afi'ected side is less obvious than natural ; this is the result of the flexion of the hip, and occurs independently of muscular wasting, which however develops early, and chiefly affects the gluteal region, causing flattening of the buttock. ' If the patient be a female the labium on the aflPected side will be seen to be at a lower level than on the sound one. Having observed these different points the child should be placed on its back on a flat couch, and the amount of the deformity estimated. The flexion is at once obvious if the sound thigh is bent up so as to reduce the tilting forwards of the pelvis by straightening the lumbar spine ; the affected hmb will then be raised from the couch to an extent corresponding to the amount of flexion which is present (p. 417). The degree of abduction is estimated by passing a tape across the front of the pelvis from one anterior superior spine to the other, and noting the angle which the^ affected limb forms with it. Measurement will show that no alteration in length exists, the apparent lengthening being due to tilting of the pelvis (p. 418). By gently manipulating the limb it will be found that there is marked limitation of movement in the hip, the pelvis and femur moving together. Pressure on the front of the joint and over the trochanter IS painful, but it is rarely necessary to demonstrate the fact that pain is caused by forcible extension and by striking the heel or knee. In the early stages swelling may be completely absent ; if present it usually occupies the upper part of Scarpa's triangle or obliterates the hollow behind the great trochanter. As the disease advances starting pains occur at night, the muscular wasting of the hmb becomes more marked, whilst steadily increasing fulness in the region of the joint indicates that an abscess is forming. This may first be detected behind the trochanter, but more often deep fluctuation is felt below the anterior superior iliac sjtine. Sometimes the abscess forms more inter- nally under the pectineus muscle, and may give rise to severe pain down the mner side of the thigh by its pressure upon the obturator nerve An intrapclvic abscess from acetabular disease usually makes its way upwards and