OSTEITIS DEFORMANS. have however been recorded in which, after very extensive softening of the bones, complete recovery has taken place. The close relation of the disease to pregnancy, and its rapid increase with recurring gestations, has suggested the production of an artificial menopause as a possible means of relief or cure. For this purpose removal of the ovaries has been practised by Fehling of Basel and Trizzi of Milan, apparently with considerable success. OSTEITIS DEFORMANS. In 1876, Paget read a paper before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London on five cases of a general disease of the bones to which he gave the name of osteitis deformans. Since that time a considerable number of cases have been recorded in this country and in France, which have more or less closely agreed with Paget's original description. The Causes of the disease are obscure. It most commonly commences about the age of fifty, and appears to affect the two sexes about equally ; for, although of 2.3 cases observed by Paget only 6 were females, of 43 cases collected by Thibierge 21 were males and 22 females. The disease appears to have no connexion with syphilis, but in some cases there has been a history of gout or rheumatism. Except perhaps in one instance there has been no evidence of hereditary influence. In some few cases an injury to a bone has preceded the development of the disease. Symptoms.—The most marked feature of osteitis deformans is a gradual enlargement and deformity of certain parts of the skeleton. The disease runs an extremely long course, lasting even as long as twenty years without affecting the general health to any appreciable degree. " The disease affects most frequently the long bones of the lower extremities and the skull, and is usually sym- metrical. The bones enlarge and soften, and those bearing weight yield and become unnaturally curved. The spine may sink and seem to shorten wdth increased dorsal and lumbar curves ; the pelvis may become wide ; the necks of the femora may become nearly horizontal, but the limbs, however misshapen, remain strong, and fit to support the trunk." The bones chiefly affected are the tibiae, femora and clavicles, and those of the vault of the skull and the spine, but the enlargement is first noticed in one or both tibia. The bones of the upper hmbs, with the exception of the clavicles, are rarely affected in so marked a degree as those of the lower limbs. More or less pain is a common symptom ; it is generally most marked in the early stages, and being situated in the bones it is thought to be rheumatic. The pain is not usually .worse at night. In four of Paget's cases the patient gradually became blind ; in one from choroiditis and in three from retinal haemorrhages. Hutchinson has also recorded a case in which choroiditis was present. Pathology.—The bones examined after death show changes evidently of an inflammatory character. The skuU is uniformly thickened, but in the lono- bones the compact tissue is chiefly affected. The thin layer of compact bone on the articular surface is thickened and encroaches on the cancellous tissue The thickened bone is soft and spongy, its substance is very vascular, and its surface is grooved with lines for the vessels of the periosteum. Neither the periosteum nor the medulla presents any marked change. 's cases by Butlin confirmed the opinion that the disease is inflammatory. He says : " The whole microscopic