40 DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. opened early and treated on ordinary principles. The conslituiional trealmeni is the same as for erysipelas. No depiction is ever justifiable, and stimulants are often required in considerable quantities, with abundant liquid food of a nourishing kind. Perchloride of iron and quinine are often useful. VARIX OF THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS. Varix of the Lymphatics has occasionally been met with, both in the superficial and deep networks and in the lymphatic trunks. The part most commonly found affected has been the inner side of the thigh ; but the disease has also been seen in the anterior wall of the al^domen, about the ankle and elbow joints, and on the prepuce. In the superficial lymphatics, the varix first appears in the form of small elevations, giving the skin an appearance which has been compared to the rind of an orange ; it subsequently takes the form of little vesicles covered with a thin layer of epidermis. Varix of the larger lymphatic trunks frequently accompanies the condition just described. The vessels may either be dilated cylindrically into round beaded enlargements, often semi-transparent, and but slightly compressible ; or ampuUas may be formed on them, giving rise to soft swellings, fluctuating under the finger. There is some oedema, attributable either to obstruction of the lymphatics or to the impeded flow of the lymph. In 31 out of 55 recorded discharge of lymph (Lymphorrhoea) has been observed. This has been seen to occur also without varix, as the result of wound. In the latter case, the flow is continuous; while in the lymphorrhoea which attends varix it is to some extent intermittent. The identity of the fluid discharged with lymph has been established by chemical and microscopic examination. An excessive discharge of the fluid is apt to produce symptoms of general debihty, of the same kind as those induced by hjemorrhage. Treatment.—Spontaneous cure of lymphatic varix has been observed in cases where the penis was afFected, the disease being the result of the obstruction to the flow of lymph caused by buboes. In other instances, various plans of treatment have been tried, with apparently indifl'erent result. Caustics have been used by several Surgeons, but, as the disease is often deeply seated as well as superficial, with but little effect. Beau treated three cases successfully by introducing a seton into the dilated lymphatic vessels, and exciting adhesive inflammation. B. Bell advised ligature of the lymphatic vessel, from which the discharge of fluid takes place. Compression by means of a bandage has been recommended by Nelaton. ELEPHANTIASIS AEABXJM* Elephantiasis Arabum is a disease endemic in many tropical and sub- tropical countries, occurring in the West Indies, South America, India, China, Africa and elsewhere. It is very rarely met with in Europe. The disease is characterized by a remarkable enlargement of the aff-ected part, resulting from chano-es in the skin, subcutaneous tissue and connective tissues generally. It may affect one or both lower extremities, the scrotum or labia, and more rarely, the upper extremities, mamma, or face. When the condition affects ♦ For full information regarding this disease, reference may be made to an article by Patrick Manson in Davidson's "Hygiene and Diseases of Warm Climates.' 1893.