146 ANEURISM. Nothinn- can be simpler tlian the details of this plan. It consists, in tlio lower limb, in applying- a bandage us hi<>'ji as the knee and then gradually flexing the leg upon the thigh, so that the heel is brought up towards tlu; buttock, where it is retained by a strap or bandage. The patient is at the same time confined to bed, and put under proper constitutional treatment. By this means, the popliteal artery being bent at an acute angle, the circula- tion through it is nearly, if not completely, arrested ; and the obstacle to tho flow of blood is still further increased by the compression of the tumoui' between the posterior flat surface of the femur and the upper part of the calf. In this way the aneurism is most favourably situated for the consolidation of its contents, which, in the recorded cases, has often taken place at an early period. The principle on which the cure is efl'ected in these cases appears to be, that by flexion the artery leading to and from the sac, and the aneurism itself, are so compressed that retardation of the circulation ensues, and deposition (jf laminated fibrin takes place in the usual way. The compression by flexion is most Hkely to be successful in those cases in which the aneurism is small, situated low in the popliteal space, and in a young or middle-aged subject, who can bear the continued flexion without much inconvenience. "When flexion is not sufficient of itself to cure an aneurism, it may very advantageously be had recourse to in addition to other methods of treatment, more especially that by digital compression. The statistics of the treatment by flexion require to be carried down to the present time. Those published by Fischer in 1870 comprised 57 cases. Of these 28 were cured—20 being by flexion alone ; and in 29 the method failed. The various methods of employing compression, viz., by clamps, by weight, by flexion, and by the finger, may often be advantageously combined in the same case. When the patient tires of one, another may be substituted for it; and thus the good effects are continuously kept up with less fatigue and irrita- tion than would otherwise be experienced. So also various modifications of these different methods may be practised to suit the requirements of any particular case. But for these no special directions can be given ; the ingenuity of the Surgeon must supply the want in each case. Manipulation.—In 1857 Fergusson proposed to treat some aneurisms by a procedure which he termed manipulation. This consists in squeezing the aneurismal tumour in such away as to detach a portion of the coagulum within it, which, being carried on with the current of blood into the distal end of the artery, obstructs this ; and thus, by impeding the circulation through the sac, may lead to its consolidation. It has also been suggested by Oliver Pemberton that the alteration of the relations of the laminated fibrin in the cavity of the aneurism may bring about a further deposition of fibrin on the displaced laminae. This procedure can scarcely be considered, nor is it intended to be, of very general application. To aneurisms, however, that are not amenable to ordinary surgical treatment, and that must necessarily prove fatal if left alone—as in those situated at the root of the neck, more particularly of the subclavian artery—it might possibly be advantageously applied. It is scarcely necessary, however, to point out the obvious danger of rupture of the sac, or of the diff'usion of the aneurism from the weakening of its walls by the separa- tion of the coagulum, to make Surgeons use due caution in carrying out this