73 TREATMENT OF NjEVUB. tenotome, and in the intervals between the different introductions of this instrument to keep up pressure upon the tumour. The two remaining- methods which have been extensively used in the treat- ment of subcutaneous naevus are the ligature and injection. At the present day, however, both these methods have to a large extent fallen into disuse, as cases are rarely met with which cannot be treated by the simpler and safer methods above described. Injection of a ntevus with some fluid capable of causing coagulation of the contained blood is attended with the danger of sloughing, and of extension of Dhe coagulation into the vessels beyond the neevus with resulting dangerous or even fatal embohsm. In order to prevent this latter accident, a tourniquet should be placed on a limb if it be the seat of the UEevus. If the ntevus is seated on any other part, two hare-lip pins must be passed beneath it, and a temporary ligature applied beneath the pins during the operation ; this can safely be removed after about a quarter of an hour. The solution of perchloride of iron has been most generally used, and should be injected into the substance of the nsevus by means of a small glass syringe with a screw-piston rod and a fine sharp poir.ted platinum nozzle (Fig. 427). In doing this, care must be taken that but a very small quantity of the solu- tion, not more than two or three drops, be injected at one time ; if more than this be used, the tissue of the nseviis may have its vitality destroyed, and slough. If preferred, a few drops of a stronjr solution of chloride of zinc, or pure carbolic acid, may be injected instead of the perchloride of iron. The ligature requires to be applied in different ways, accord- ing to the size and situation of the tumour. In all cases, the best material is firm, round, compressed whip-cord, which has previously been rendered aseptic by carbolic acid or perchloride of mercury. This should be tied as tightly as possible, and knotted securely, so that no part of the tumour may escape complete strangulation. It is well, if possible, not to include in the noose any healthy skin, but to snip across with a pair of scissors that portion of integument which intervenes between the cords that are tied together ; at the same time, care must be taken to pass the ligatures well beyond the limits of the disease. After the growth has been strangulated it may be punctured to let out the blood, and then injected with a few drops of chloride of zinc (1 in 40) or carbolic acid. Its surface may then be dusted with iodoform, and covered with iodoform wool, sealed down with collodion. The mass thus forms a dry aseptic scab, which separates in a few days, with scarcely any suppuration, leaving a healthy sure beneath. When the tumour is small, an ordinary double ligature maybe passed across Its base, by means of a common suture-needle ; and, the noose being cut and the thread tied on each side, strangulation will be effected. When it is of larger size, and of round shape, the most convenient method is that recom- mended by Liston. It consists in passing, by means of long neevus needles, nxecl in wooden handles, and having their eyes near their points, double whip- Fig. 42V.—Syiinge lor Injeutiiig Naivus. cord ligatures m opposite directions beneath the tumour; then cuttino- thr ough