TREATMENT OF INFLAMED AXILLARY ANEURISM. 211 of 32 deaths occurring in the 90 cases, 10 were from hseraorrhage from the site of h'gature. Gangrmie of the Hand and Arm is but seldom met with as a sequela of this operation. This is doubtless owing to freedom of the anastomosing circulation between the branches of the transverse cervical and suprascapular, and those of the subscapular, circumflex, aud acromio-thoracic arteries, as well as between the superior and long thoracic aud the branches of the intercostals and internal mammary, by which the vitality of the limb is readily main- tained. The principal risk from gangrene would doubtless arise from the subscapular artery being in any way occluded or implicated in the disease, as it is on the anastomoses of this vessel that the limb is mainly dependent for its supply of blood. But, at all events, this danger is small, the only case in which it appears to have brought about a fatal termination being one in which Colles tied the artery; gangrene of the limb came on after much constitutional disturbance, with rapid, weak pulse, thirsts, sweats, restlessness, and delirium. In Bhzzard's case, there were sloughing of the sac and pericarditis, the gan- grene being confined to two fingers ; and in Brodie's case, it occurred in both the lower as well as in the upper extremities, and must, therefore, have pro- ceeded from some constitutional cause altogether independent of the mere arrest of circulation through the subclavian. Failure of the operation to cure the disease if the above accidents are avoided is a very rare occurrence. A case of this kind occurred to Berkeley Hill in University College Hospital. The subclavian was successfully tied for a large axillary aneurism ; there was some inflammation about the sac after the operation, which gradually subsided. Some months afterwards the tumour began steadily to increase in size without pulsation, and finally the sac was laid open and the vessel tied from within, and the patient made a o-ood recovery. ^ On reviewing the causes of death, it may reasonably be hoped that the average of success will be materially increased by the use of ligatures which do not divide the coats, and by the prevention of septic and spreading inflam- mation in the wound by the employment of antiseptic dressings. Treatment of Inflamed AxiUary Aneurism threatening Suppura- tion.—The case of an axillary aneurism becoming inflamed, and tijreatenino- to suppurate before the Surgeon has had an opportunity of ligaturino- the sub°- clavian artery is one that is full of important practical considerations, and that admits of little delay ; for if the sac rupture, or be opened, fatal hemor- rhage is the inevitable result. It would obviously be impossible, in a case of spontaneous aneurism, with any fair chance of success, to lay open the tumour turn out the coagula, and ligature the vessel above and below the mouth of the sac ; the coats of the artery being not only diseased, but still further softened by inflammation and suppuration, would not be in a condition to hold a ligature. There are two other courses open-viz. ligature of the sub- clavian or amputation at the shoulder-joint ; and in the selection of one or ^tll l ^'i'^'r S^"^^^ by the progress the disease has made the condition of the limb as to circulation and temperature and tl e solidity or fluidity of the contents of the tumour. ' If the tumour be of moderate size and circumscribed, and the arm of a o-ood mperature and not very (edematous, ligature of the ar/.r^ may lid ott a reasonable chance of success. It is true that this is but a Zee for the P 2