TREATMENT OF RECURRENT PULSATION. 129 .ssisted by means calculated to lessen the force of the impulse of the blood 11 to the sac, such as compression of the artery abo\'e the point ligatured, rest, the elevated position, and the application of cold to the part; cold, however, must be carefully applied, lest, the vitality of the limb being diminished, gangrene be induced. At the same time, direct pi'essure may be made upon tiie°sac, so as to moderate the flow of blood into it : this has in many cases succeeded in producing consolidation of the tumour, and may most con- veniently be applied by means of a compress and narrow roller. This plan is especially adapted to popliteal and inguinal aneurisms, but cannot so well be exercised upon those situated in the neck. Care must be taken that the pressure be not at first too powerful, lest gangrene result ; the object is not so much to force out the contents of the tumour, or to efface it, as simply to restrain and moderate somewhat the flow of blood into it. Should the aneurism be so situated that pressure can be exercised upon the artery above the point hgatured, this should be had recourse to either by the finger or by instrument, and will be both safer and more likely to be effectual than direct pressure. I succeeded in this way in curing a very remarkable case of recurrent pulsation in a popliteal aneurism. The patient, a man about thirty- five years of age, was admitted into University College Hospital for an aneurism, about the size of an orange, in the right ham. Treatment by com- pression was employed, without any efil'ect being produced on the tumour, for three months. During this period compression was employed in all forms—by Carte's instrument, the weight, the finger, and flexion. I then tied the super- ficial femoral artery in Scarpa's triangle with a hemp ligature. The pulsation was arrested in the tumour when the ligature was tied, but returned in a shght degree in about an hour, and slowly increased, never becoming at all forcible, but being very distinct. The ligature separated on the fourteenth day. The limb was bandaged, and a pad applied over the aneurism without any effect; and the limb was raised, but still the pulsation continued. Carte's compressor was again applied to the common femoral artery, and used for about three hours in an intermittent manner, when the pulsation finally ceased. In the event of the pulsation not disappearing under the influence of pres- sure, conjoined with rest, dietetic means, and the local application of cold, the foUowing courses are open to the Surgeon : ], To ligature the vessel 3etween the situation of the previous operation and the aneurism; 2, To perform the old operation of laying open the sac ; 3, To excise the aneurism ; ind 4, To amputate, if the aneurism be situated in a hmb. ^ The evidence afforded by recorded cases and the consideration of the con- iition of the vessel after ligature seem to suggest that the most hopeful treatment is to ligature the artery lower down, viz., between the .situation of ;he previous operation and the aneurism. The recurrence of pulsation in nost cases probably depends upon the free entry of blood, brought by the jollateral circulation, into the still patent vessel above the sac. In a case of •ecurrent pulsation in a popliteal aneurism after ligature of the femoral artery n. Scarpa's triangle Savory successfully ligatured the popliteal artery about ■wo mches above the sac ; two catgut ligatures were applied and the vessel hvided between them. In a similar case under the care of T. Smith igature of the superficial femoral in Hunter's canal failed to arrest the ■ecun-ent pulsation. Subsequently, the popliteal artery was ligatured and VOL. II.