632 DISEASES OF THE ANTRUM AND UPPER JAW. integuments becoming involved, the gums implicated, and perhaps the suh maxillary lymphatic glands enlarged. ' 1 P» "^i'e sulj- Diagnosis.-.in the diagnosis of these tumours of the upper jaw, there three principa points to be attended to to distinguislAhe gr^wtl f,^^ flu d accumulation ; 2, to determine whether it be simple or malignant; a d 3, to ascertain its primary seat. ' i b . anu _ 1. In making the diagnosis from fluid accmnulalion in m anirum the history of the case, and the uniform enlargement of the cavity without localized projection beyond any part of its walls, the elasticity and oven fluctuation that may, after a time, be detected, more particularly towards the outer side ot the swelling and at the junction of the mucous membrane of the cheelc and the gum, will enable the Surgeon to determine that it is not sohd. But in many cases this is not sufficient ; and it becomes necessary to make an exploratory puncture by means of the perforator, through one or other ot the more thinned and expanded parts already indicated. This should never be omitted in cases of doubt: for it has happened even to so good a feurgeon as Gensoul that, after making incisions through the cheek with the view of extirpating the tumour, the bones were found to be expanded by an antral abscess. 2. In determining whether the growth be simjjle or onalignant, the Surgeon will experience much difficulty, so long as it is confined to the cavity of the antrum ; but when once it has perforated and passed beyond its walls this point is easily solved. Yet, even whilst the tumour is still confined Avithin the antrum, much light may be thrown upon its nature by attention to the rapidity of ii}s growth ; the greater this is, the more reason there is to suspect that it is malignant. Too much importance, however, must not be attached to this sign ; for though, as a general rule, fibrous, cartilaginous, and bony tumours may increase less rapidly than the malignant, yet they may attain a very great bulk in a short space of time. The age of the patient is of comparattvely little value in the diagnosis ; I think, however, that, as a general rule, simple tumours more frequently occur in the young, whilst the malignant forms of the affection are more commonly met with at the middle or advanced pei'iods of life. When the disease is malignant, the submaxillary lymphatic glands often become enlarged and indurated at an early period. In a case under my care, the malignant character of a tumour, whilst still in the antrum, was determined by the fact of there being a long chain of indurated lymphatic glands lying under the angle of the lower jaw. It must be remembered, how- ever, that the sarcomata, which run an essentially malignant course, infiltrating surrounding parts and recurring in internal organs, do not as a rule afiect the lymphatic glands. When once a malignant tumour has passed beyond the cavity of the antrum, and is thus relieved from the pressure of its walls, it grows with great rapidity, and where it can be felt under the skin, is perceived to be soft and elastic. Spreading extensively amongst the bones of the face and skull, it creeps through the foramina and fissures, and encroaches on the nasal cavity and orbit; its early protrusion into these cavities is especially characteristic of malignancy. It implicates the integuments of the cheek, with an inflammatory oedema, and the soft structures within the mouth, and throws out fuugating masses in these several situations. 3. A point of very great importance in relation to operative interference is