289 SYMPT03IS OF NECROSIS. when the dead portion becomes loose. In the third period, the sequestrum having been expelled or removed, the final processes of repair take place by which'^the restoration to the proper size and shape of the bone is effected. The particular character of the symptoms depends, however, not only on the stage and cause, but also in a great measure on the seat and the extent of the necrosis. As already stated, the sequestrum may be peripheral,'central, or total, perhaps involving the whole thickness of the shaft. The acute diseases causing necrosis have already been sufficiently described, but a few words are required on some of the chronic forms. When the necrosis is associated with caries, as in caries necrotica, the symptoms are those already described as occurring in that condition, pain like that of rheumatism, and tenderness with gradual enlargement of the affected bone. At a later period chronic suppuration takes place, and the abscess at last points beneath the skin. When this is opened a probe will pass into the carious cavity in which the sequestrum is lying. When the sequestrum is small and central, it may become enclosed with a small quantity of cheesy pus in a dense wall of solid bone. The symptoms are then those of chronic abscess. Extensive necrosis may occasionally take place without the formation of a drop of pus. Cases of this kind have been described by Paget under the name of qioiet necrosis, and by Morrant Baker as necrosis ivitJwut suppuration. The symptoms are those of chronic osteitis and periostitis (p. 269), and the diagnosis can be made only when, all means of treatment having failed, trephining of the bone is undertaken for the relief of the pain. In Baker's case the enlargement exactly resembled a tumour, and as spontaneous fracture finally took place, there seemed no doubt as to the nature of the disease. The real condition was discovered only after amputation at the hip-joint. In these cases the necrosis is due to arrest of the circulation by osteoplastic periostitis obliterating the Haversian canals, and the part necrosed is always the central portion of the compact tissue of the shaft. Another course taken by necrosis, especially when it follows fevers, may best be illustrated by briefly describing three typical cases. The first was that of a girl aged 14, who complained of persistent pain in the buttock after an attack of rheumatic fever. A hard brawny swelling gradually formed during the following year. It was aspirated but nothing was found, and fears were entertained that it might be a sarcoma. Some weeks after a few drops of pus escaped from the puncture, and on dilating the opening a small sequestrum, about the size of a thumb-nail, was found detached from the side of the pelvis. The second was that of a man aged about 35, who complained of a slowly-growing tumour, about 2| inches in diameter, under the right nipple, that had appeared some months after typhoid fever. He was sent into University College Hospital as a case of scirrhus of the male breast. There was one small enlarged gland in the axilla, and there seemed no doubt about the diagnosis, but to avoid any possibility of error a deep incision was made into the growth, which ^ grated under the knife, and felt and looked like scirrhus. It was accordingly removed, when a small cavity half an inch in diameter was found beneath, containing some caseating granulation tissue ; the finger passed from this through the pectoralis major to a small sequestrum on the fifth rib. The third case was that of a girl, aged about 14, who was sent into the hospital for a tumour, supposed to be an enchondroma, just below the crest of the ilium. On cutting down on this, it proved to be a chronic abscess with exceedingly VOL. n. „