TREATMENT OF HYDROCELE: TAPPING. 1241 tapped, and tetanus also has followed this operation. After tapping- it usually happens that the hydrocele slowly forms again, attammg l^^^^^^l^^ the end of about three months. Occasionally it will be found t^at th e^^^^^^^^ oele returns more and more slowly after each tapping ; so that, by lepeatm this simple process at intervals of three, then six, then twelve months tbe disease will finally disappear. I have several times seen this occur, chiefly m old men. When a congenital hydrocele has been tapped, the sac soon hlls a<^ain by drainage into it from the peritoneum ; and, indeed, m such a case the fluid of an ascites has been drawn off by tapping the tunica vaginalis _ In tapping a hydrocele a few precautions are necessary, the principal being to avoid puncturing one of the scrotal veins, or injuring the testis In the maiority of cases the testis is situated at the back of the tumour, and is con- sequently altogether out of the way of the trochar. Its situation should, however, always be determined before the operation. This may be done_ by pressing with the finger firmly on different points of the sac m succession The patient will usually be able at once to tell when the testicle is pressed upon by the peculiar " testicular sensation." The seat of the gland may be Fig. 94t;.—Tapping a Hydrocele : cf, Introduction of Trochar : h, Position of Cannula. further determined by the want of translucency at the spot at which it is situated. The operation is then performed as follows:—!. The trochar should be well washed in carboHc acid lotion (1 in 20). 2. The patient should be made to lie down or sit on a chair, lest he become faint. 3. The Surgeon, then grasp- ing the hydrocele, draws the scrotum back so as to make the coverings on the front of the tumour as thin and smooth as possible. 4. He then selects a spot little below the middle of the tumour where no vein is visible, and there taps the hydrocele. 5. The trochar must be held with its handle in the palm of the hand, and the index finger must be firmly pressed against the side about three quarters of an inch from its point to prevent its accidentally slipping in more deeply than is intended. It should not be thrust in with a sudden plunge—which is always painful and startling to the patient—but should be ■steadily pushed forwards, the tumour at the same time being pressed against its point. In this way the operation is almost painless, especially if care is taken to avoid blood-vessels and their accompanying nerves. The trochar is to be pushed in directly backwards (Fig. 940, a), but as soon as the trochar is withdrawn the cannula should be inclined obliquely upwards, so as to avoid the chance of pressure against the testis (Fig. 946, h). 6. When all the fluid has escaped, the cannula is slowly withdrawn, the edges of the small puncture -are pressed together and covered with a little cotton-wool and collodion. A