DISEASES OF THE EAR. In either situation there is g^eat danger of septic meningitis, and when the h^teral sdcus is al ected tliere is the additional risk of septic .hlebitis o th sinus. An extradural abscess may perforate the squamous bone abo^•e and behind the meatus, or discharge through the roof of the tympanum. No snecial smUmis are caused by this complication beyond those due to pent-up nu It IS, however, often associated with more serious intracranial mischief l\i symptoms of which will mask those of the abscess itself. The Trmimeni con sists m laying open the mastoid in the way already described, and affording drainage to any extradural collection of pus by the careful removal of bone with the gouge. The roof of the tympanum, and the superior surface of the petrous bone, may readily be explored by applying a small trephine as suggested by Ballance, at a point a short inch above the centre of the external auditory meatus, and carefully separating the dura mater from the bone at the lower border of the opening.. Septic Phlebitis of the Lateral Sinus is a most serious complication of chronic suppuration in the middle ear, and is most commonly met with in adults. The inflammation usually affects that part of the vein which lies in the groove on the mastoid ; it may be due, as we have already seen, to necrosis and extradural abscess in the lateral sulcus, but may occur without these, as the result of the spread of inflammation along the small veins entering the sinus from the bone. The special danger of this complication is embolic pyemia due to the disintegration of the septic thrombus. ^ The symptoms of septic phlebitis of the lateral sinus are not always suflR- ciently characteristic to distinguish it from other forms of intracranial sup- puration, with which, indeed, it may be associated. Amongst the most important symptoms may be mentioned irregular elevation of temperature with often-repeated rigors, vomiting, and severe pain in the temporal region. With these may be associated swelling over the mastoid, enlargement of the cervical glands, and perhaps tenderness and induration along the upper part of the internal jugular vein, due to extension of the inflammation below the jugular foramen. In addition, evidences of meningitis or pya3mia often manifest themselves, so that Mace wen recognizes three types of symptoms- pulmonary, abdominal, and meningeal. The pulmonary symptoms are those due to embolism of the lungs, whilst in other cases diarrhoea is a marked feature, and the general resemblance to typhoid fever may be close. The Treatment will, in the first instance, usually be exploratory, and directed to investigate the condition of the sinus in a case in which septic phlebitis is suspected. This will usually be done by carefully enlarging backwards the opening already made into the mastoid antrum (Fig. 663), but if it be done independently of this a small trephine should be apphed, as suggested by Ballance, at a point one inch behind the centre of the external auditory meatus and a quarter of an inch above Eeid's base line—a fine drawn from the lower border of the orbit through the centre of the external auditory meatus. The opening may be carefully enlarged with bone forceps in the direction of the sinus. If it be doubtful whether the vein is thrombosed or not, an exploring needle or small trochar may be introduced, w^hen the escape of fluid blood will clear up the doubt. If, however, the vein contains a septic thrombus, the only available treatment consists in freely opening the sinus and clearing it of the disintegrating clot, by careful flushing wn'th 1 in 4000 mercurial solution. The risk of bleeding is small, as the coagulum extends beyond the