TAPPING PULMONARY CAVITIES. 761 serious constitutional disturbance. This object is best attained either by making a free incision some inches in length between two ribs, or by the insertion of two tubes, one in the ordinary situation, and one at the lowest possible point in the pleura. The second opening may be made upon a curved probe passed in at the upper wound. In cases of tuberculous empyema operation should, if possible, be avoided. In cases in which drainage is necessary it may be advisable very carefully to wash out the cavity with two tubes in the way above described. 7. Estlander's Operation.—In cases in which the cavity of the empyema continues to discharge after many months, or even years, showing no signs of diminishing either by contraction of the chest-walls or expansion of the lung, the patient's condition becomes very serious. If the cavity be very small it is possible the sinus may remain discharging a small quantity of pus without causing much inconvenience, but if it be of any size it is almost impossible to keep it clean, and the health is gradually impaired by the constant absorption of small quantities of septic matter, and finally death will almost inevitably occur from albumenoid degeneration of the viscera. In such cases Estlander proposed the removal of the bony wall of the chest corresponding to the cavity, so that the soft parts of the chest-wall should come in direct contact with the surface of the lung. This operation has now been performed in a large number of cases with a very considerable measure of success. The area of the cavity must first be accurately ascertained by careful probing. The ribs are then exposed by a free incision. This may be done by raising a large flap, or by a single vertical incision. In whichever way it is done the whole area from which the ribs are to be removed must be fully exposed, so that the thickened pleura can be cut away as well as the bones, and any bleeding vessel easily secured. The ribs having been exposed are removed separately to the required extent by the method already described. The thickened pleura with the periosteum which has been stripped irom the ribs is then cut away with a strong pair of scissors. The intercostal vessels lying in this dense tissue are usually obliterated, so that there is singu- larly little bleeding. Unless the thickened pleura be removed as well as the ribs, the operation is certain to fail, as it is almost as unyielding as the bony wall. The wound is then cleaned with some efficient antiseptic solution and closed by sutures, a drainage-tube being inserted at the most dependent part, and an antiseptic dressing applied, Estlander's operation is only appKcable to cases in which the patient is otherwise in good health and free from tuberculous disease of the lungs. It can scarcely ever be required except in adults, as the soft walls of a child's thorax readily fall in, even if the lung fails to expand. Pneumothorax.—In some cases an accumulation of air in the pleural cavity gives rise to so much interference with respiration that it is necessary to remove it by aspiration. This has been practised in traumatic pneumothorax, and also in cases of spontaneous origin. Aspiration should, however, never be performed for tuberculous pneumothorax. I - ** TAPPING PULMONAKY CAVITIES. The operation of tapping vomicee in the lungs in phthisical patients qpuld not be done with certainty until the existence and precise seat of inch cavities could be accurately determined by auscultation ; for, prior