'092 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITIIOTRITY. its contents. These consequently accumulate in the lower f.mdus, and irritate the mucous membrane ; and thus the foundation may be laid for fatal ser^^ cystit. The atony of the bladder appears to arise i^.rtly ffom th t S van of expulsive power which is not unfrequent in old'people, and pa l frorn paraly,,s ol the organ, induced by the contact of the instruments especially after a prolonged operation. The bladder must be re^uladv emptied with a catheter, and antiseptic injections if there be any evidence of cysb] Lis, Disease of the Kidneys is in Lithotrity, as in all other operations on the urinary organs, the most common cause of danger and of death. The various forms of fatal kidney disease have been fully described in Chapter LXV. Pyaemia and Septicaemia are occasional but uncommon causes of death Constitutional Disturbance.—Very considerable constitutional disturb- ance occasionally follows lithotrity. The patient is seized with severe and long- contmued rigors, followed by profuse sweating, lasting for manv hours. The^ serious symptoms were formerly most apt to come on after the first sittin^r • but the experience of Bigelow's method has shown that they are not more prone to occur after a prolonged operation than after the short sittings formerly adopted. They may pass off quickly, as in the analogous conditions to those that are apt to follow the introduction of instruments in stricture, &c. or they may persist and assume the character already described as indicating septicEemia or renal inflammation. These serious consequences are especially apt to happen when there is previous disease of the kidneys. Indeed, there is no condition that is more directly antagonistic to the success of lithotrity than interstitial nephritis. In other instances, again, the fatal result is more directly dependent on the irritation induced by the operation leading to the formation of abscesses in the neighbourhood of the prostate, or around the neck of the bladder ; and in other instances, again, on the supervention of unhealthy suppuration in some of the sacculi that are occasionally met with in this organ. The Treatment of this state of things should consist in the free administration of stimulants—brandy, ammonia, and ether—followed by a full dose of opium, and abundant warm diluents. If the bladder contains foul urine this must be removed by washing out with antiseptic solutions. Especial care must be taken in those cases in which any stone remains not to repeat the sitting for at least a week or ten days after the rigors have passed off. Mortality,—The rate of mortahty following lithotrity in the adult, in the hands of a Surgeon especially skilled in the performance of the operation, is shown by the results recorded by Thompson in a paper read before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society in 1890. The record includes 800 operations performed upon 685 patients. Of these 475 were performed by multiple sittings, with 33 deaths, or 7 per cent. ; whilst of 325 cases in which the modern operation at one sitting was performed only 12, or a little over 3^ per cent., died. This list does not include uric acid or oxalate of lime concre- tions of less than twenty grains in weight, nor the phosphatic concretions so frequently removed from the bladder of patients with enlarged prostate. Barling has collected 300 cases of lithotrity performed in thirteen hospitals in this country during the years 1888 to 1892 ; of these 24 or 8 per cent, died. In 43 cases the patients were under 10 years of age : of these only one died.