898 INTESTINAL OBSTRUCTION. neiohbounu.o; coils l)ecome twisted round each other. In whichever way it occurs the hiraen of the gut is occluded, and the symptoms of intestinal ob- struction set in. Volvulus may affect ahnost any part of the intestine, but by far the most common seat is the sigmoid flexure, so much so that it will suffice here to describe that form only. Jt is the only form of acute intestinal obstruction affecting the gi-eat intestine. In the sigmoid flexure it is invari- ably tlie result of great dilatation of the gut, possibly in some cases con- genital, but commonly the effect of habitual constipation. In this way the sigmoid flexure may become greatly increased in length and in diameter, aud the meso-colon becomes long and loose. In this condition it is easy to under- stand how it may become twisted on itself, either as a consequence of some movement or from accumulation of faeces in the uppei' part of the loop. When it becomes thus twisted complete obstruction results. The circulation in the actual twist is seriously interfered with, the gut becomes congested and almost invariably peritonitis sets in, commencing at the twist. Later on, if the patient lives long enough, sloughing and perforation may take place at the twist. Special Symptoms of Volvulus of the Sigmoid Plexure.—The in- vasion is, in most cases, sudden, without severe collapse or shock, and accom- panied by pain, not usually very intense, often intermittent and griping. Distension of the abdomen sets in very early, and forms the most marked feature of the case. This is caused almost entirely by accumulation of gas in the dilated sigmoid flexure, which may become so distended as to empty and compress the other parts of the intestine, and by forcing up the diaphragm may seriously impede respiration. The huge distended coils of the great in- testine may be recognisable through the abdominal wall. Constipation is complete, neither flatus or faeces passing, but vomiting is not a very marked symptom, and rarely becomes stercoraceous. Tenesmus is an occasional symptom. The course of the disease is usually rapid. Symptoms of peri- tonitis appear at an early period, and, according to Treves, death takes place on an average about the sixth day. It has been known to occur on the third day from asphyxia caused by the pressure of the distended gut. Volvulus of the small intestine, or of the great and small together, gives rise to much the same symptoms as strangulation by a band. 8. Impaction of Foreign Bodies in the Small Intestine.—Foreign bodies may be divided into three classes :— 1. Solid Foreign Bodies accideniaUy swalloived, such as false teeth, plum- stones, &c., very rarely cause obstruction of the intestine directly, for anything Avhich can pass the oesophagus can, as a rule, pass the remainder of the alimen- tary canal. 2. Intesfmal concretions or enterolilhs are of three kinds :—1. Lammated stony masses of a white or brownish colour, composed of magnesium phos- phate, ammonio-magnesium phosphate, and organic matter usually formed round some small foreign body as a nucleus ; 2. jMasses formed of indigestible husks or other vegetable refuse felted together and mixed with fajces and earthy matter ; and 3. Stones formed as a consequence of the long-continued and excessive administration of certain mineral drugs, especially chalk, magnesia, and oxide of bismuth. 3. Gall-stones far more commonly cause obstruction than the solid bodies above mentioned, and the accident is much more frequent in women than in