ANEUMISM. 1Zon'\t^:^^ ^""''^^^ '"'^"^^^ «f 1^J«od into the tumoui. This undoubtedly constituted one of the greatest and most dire -f advaiices in Surgery that has ever been made by tli^^ingle ac of one i an and for more than half a century the ''Ilunterian Operatio^' cont nued t Imost the sole method of treating this formidable disease. It was not untn 1841-42 that the Dublin Hurgeons showed by practice and experiment that an aneunsm could be cured by simply occluding for a time the artery leading to It by the pressure of an instrument applied on the proximal side of the sac" Soon after Vanzetti still further simplilied the treatment by substituting the pressure of he finger for that of an instrument. In addition to this, the fact was established, that m some cases adequate compression of the vessel and sac might be effected by simple flexion of the limbs. Thus, then, a progressive simplification has taken place in the treatment of aneurism, and, still more recently, the sphere of the applicability of compression has been greatly extended by conducting it during prolonged ansesthesia. We will now proceed to consider in detail the various methods of treatment They are as follows : 1. Ligature above and below the aneurism after layiufr open or excising the sac ; 2. Ligature of the artery on the cardiac side ; 3. Lirrat ture of the artery on the distal side ; 4. Compression by instruments ;'5. Digrtal compression ; 6. Compression by the elastic tourniquet ; 7. Flexion of the hmb ; 8. Acupressure ; 9. Manipulation ; 10. (xalvano-puncture ; 11. Injection of the sac with coagulating fluids. All these various methods of treatment, however they may differ in their details, have, with the exception of the first, the same great principle in view, viz. the ^ consolidation of the aneurismal tumour by the deposit of coagulum' within it. When the process adopted is of such a nature as to lead to the slow deposit of coagulum, this will be found to be pale, firm and laminated— the active clot of Broca. When the deposit is rapid, it will be dark, soft and homogeneous—the passive clot. ligature.—The manner in which the ligature should be applied, and the various cautions respecting its use, have been sufliciently discussed (Vol. I., p. 427 et seq.). The question as to the part of the vessel to which it should be applied in aneurism, remains for consideration ; and this involves some important points. Situation.—There are three situations in which the ligature may be applied : 1, alove and helow the sac, by the old operation ; 2, on the cardiac- side of the sac, by Anel's (Fig. 454) or Hunter's (Fig. 455) operation ; 3, on the distal side of the sac, by Brasdor's operation (Fig. 456). 1. The Application of the Ligature on both sides of the Aneurismal Sac is seldom practised at the present day, except in traumatic aneurisms, in which it is frequently the best means of treatment, as has been mentioned in Chap. XY. Yol. I. The older Surgeons, however, were acquainted with this mode only of treating aneurisms, which was practised by Antyllus in the third or fourth century, and is often called by his name. The mode of applying the ligature to both sides of the sac is as follows. After having arrested the cir- culation through the aneurism, by compressing the artery leading to it, either by means of a tourniquet, or, where that is not applicable, by the pressure of an assistant's fingers, the Surgeon slits up the sac, and turns out the coagula and masses of laminated fibrin. Then, passing a probe, or a steel bougie if the vessel be large, upwards and downwards into the artery, through the mouth