SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 2l8 opened and the artery will be found beneath, accoinpauied by a vein on each side and the ulnar nerve on the ulnar side (Fig. 492). The needle must be passed from the inner side. The artery lies between the tendons of the flexor carpi nliiaris and of the flexor fhgitorum sublimis and upon those of the flexor profundus. The mistake most likely to be made is carrying the incision too far inwards so as to miss the tendon ; the crr(jr is recognized by finding fleshy fll)res directed downwards and outwards ; the tendon is to the radial side of these. Ligature of the Ulnar Artery in the Middle of the Arm is a more troublesome operation, as the artery lies deeply on the flexor profundus covered by the superficial muscles of the forearm. It can, however, be reached with- out difficulty by separating the flexor carpi nlnaris from the contiguous bordei- of the flexor sublimis digitorum. To find the Interval between these two muscles, a line must be drawn from the tip of the inner condyle of the humerus to the radial edge of the pisiform bone. This line corresponds to the outer edge of the flexor carpi ulnaris and also in its lower two thirds, to the course of the artery. The upper part of the artery passes beneath the Fig. 4P3.—Lines of Incision for Ligature of the Brachial Artery at the loend of the elbow and the radial and ulnar arteries in the middle of the forearm and at tlie wrist. superficial muscles of the forearm from the middle of the hollow in front of the forearm to the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the line just mentioned. The operation is thus performed : the guiding line having been found, an incision two inches in length is made in it (Fig. 493) through the skin and fat. A white line then comes into view formed by a few tendinous fibres in the edge of the flexor ulnaris. If more than one white line is seen a piece of ligature thread may be placed with one end on the inner condyle, and the other on the radial edge of the pisiform bone ; the line corresponding to this is the one sought for. The point of the knife is then run lightly along the radial side of the line, after which the flexor sublimis and flexor ulnaris can easily be separated with the handle of the scalpel. The direction of the interspace is towards the ulna. On separating the muscles the artery may appear at once with a vein on each side of it lying on the flexor profundus. More commonly the ulnar nerve is first seen ; when this comes into view, the flexor sublimis must be raised and drawn outwards, when the artery will be found coming out from beneath it to join the nerve lower down. The needle must be passed from the inner side. The common error in this operation consists in making the incision too much to the radial side and opening the interval between the flexor subhmis and the palmaris longus by mistake. The error is at once recognized by finding that the inter- space leads towards the radius instead of the ulna.