DISEASES OF THE TONGUE. be attached to an ordinary " feodpr " TVm no^ i. i , be avoided if possible, 'k, t^ant ^St^ft^l^:^, annoyance to the patient, and it will, ararul!, be found betteAo' p^^^^^^^^^ ha way down the oesophagus at the time of the operation, and to bring it o Th 'IT" . k"?^'' T"^ ^'^^^^^'-'^ °P^-"- ' to fix if here Ihis IS best done by bringing the tube up the side of the face above the ea'' and applying a bandage to keep it in position. There is often trouble from pro use salivation lor two or three weeks, owing to the patient being unable t^ swallow the vised saliva excreted from the wounded and irritated glands Ihis 18 best controlled by alum gargles. The patient should be well r^opped up in bed after the operation, and, as a rule, may be allowed to leaNe i ou the fourth or fifth day. Accidents after the Operation. — Secondary hcmiorrhage mav occur ai3out the fifth or sixth day, especially after the galvanic cautery. It rarelv It ever, follows excision by the scissors with torsion of the vessels In the case of simple oozing, this will often stop if the blood-clot be cleared from the mouth and a small sponge held firmly on the raw surface. Ice may also be a|)plied and if a styptic be required turpentine is probably the best. It should be applied to the surface with a small piece of sponge. If the bleeding ])e arterial it may be at once temporarily arrested by hooking up the stump of the tongue with the finger, as recommended by Heath. The blood-clot is then removed and if the actual bleeding point is seen this should be seized in forci- pressure forceps and an attempt made to apply a ligature. Failing this the forceps may be left in situ or the actual cautery applied. Sometimes when other methods fail the hemorrhage may be stopped by packing a narrow strip of gauze into the floor of the mouth. As a last resource the lingual may be hgatured above the hyoid bone unless that has already been done as a pre- liminary step to the operation. Septic poisoning, and septic infection are pre- vented by avoiding those methods of operating which leave a sloughing surface, and by the free use of iodoform in the after-treatment. Septic pneumonia, due to the inhalation of decomposing matter fi-om the floor of the mouth, is a common cause of death after excision of the tongue, as after cut- throat and similar injuries. It is characterized by scattered patches of broncho-pneumonia, rapidly ending in breaking down of the lung tissue. Sometimes, apparently by extension from these centres, large areas of lung tissue may become gangrenous. This very fatal complication is best avoided by the use of iodoform and by drainage from the floor of the mouth in cases of removal of the entire tongue. Barker suggested and successfully practised in several cases a preliminary tracheotomy. After the operation the patient was made to breathe by the tracheal opening until the mouth had become clean. The introduction of iodoform has, however, so efficiently pre- vented septic processes in these cases that tracheotomy is now rarely required. Comparison of the Methods of Operating.—^Tn instituting a comparison between the different methods of dealing with cancer of the tongue it should ])e understood that the same plan or treatment is not equally applicable to all cases, but that one or other should be adopted according to the situation and extent of the disease. If this be small and situated at the ti]i, this portion of the organ may easily and safely be excised. If situated towards the side so as to require the removal of perhaps the anterior third of one side of the organ, it may best be done by splitting the tongue and excising