RANULA—DERMOID CYST. 701 1 Ranula.—A o-lobular swelling, semi-transparent, evidently containing tUiid, and often attaining the size of a walnut or a pigeon's egg, may be situated under the tongue, pushing this organ upwards and backwards, and consequently interfering with deglutition and speech (Fig. 751). The wall ,.f the cyst is usually thin, with small vessels ramifying on it; its contents consist of a thick mucous fluid. It was at ono time generally supposed that a ranula was due to dilatation of Wharton's duct ; but Mornint Baker, who has investigated the subject, finds that the duct, which can generally be seen lying on the surface of the cyst, is quite free, without any alteration in size, and that saliva may be seen issuing from it. A probe passed into the duct is separated from the ranula by a thin membranous wall, showing clearly that the duct and the ranula do not communicate. It seems, indeed, most probable that the cyst owes its origin to a dilatation of one of the mucous glands in the floor of the mouth; a view which is supported by the fact that the contents consist of simple mucus and not salivary secretion, and that m some cases at least the ranula consists of indepen- dent cystic formations, such as commonly occur in con- nexion with other secreting glands. Furthermore, cystic tumours containing glairy flaid may occur in the sub- stance of the tongue, far away from any salivary duct. According to Von Recklinghausen the par- ticular structure aflected is the gland of Blandin, a mucus - secreting gland which usually lies beneath the tongue close to the middle line. I have, how- ever, seen a case in which a ranula resulted from a wound of the floor of the mouth, in the situation of the Whartonian duct. The wound was caused by the slipping of a pair of tooth-forceps during extraction of the first molar tooth. As the wound healed a ranula formed, the contents of which were thick and ropy like the natural secretion of the submaxillary gland. It ultimately reached the size of a plover's egg. That this cyst was formed by an accumulation of the secretion of the submaxillary gland, there can be little doubt ; but it is quite possible that the collection formed in the submucous tissue, and that it was not enclosed in an actual dilatation of the duct. The Treatment of ranula consists either in passing a horse-hair seton through its walls, so that contraction may take place on this (Fig. 751) ; or else in the excision of a large portion of the anterior wall of the cyst, the remainder contracting until it at last becomes obliterated. 2. Dermoid Cyst.—This form of cyst is in reality rather a tumour of the tongue than of the floor of the mouth, but on account of its position it may Pig. 751.—Ranula : Introduction of Seton.