LIGATURE OF EXTERNAL ILIAC. 227 The knife may now be laid aside, the subsequent steps of the operation being carried out Avith a steel director and the forceps. The divided aponeurosis of the external oblique being held open with blunt hooks, the cord, sur- rounded by the cremaster, and the lower edge of the internal oblique come into view. Some loose areolar tissue and a few fibres of the cremaster must now be scratched through, close to Poupart's ligament, and the finger passed beneath the cord, which must be pushed upwards. The transversalis fascia is next carefully torn through with the director and forceps, and the artery can then be felt covered by a little fat and areolar tissue. Two copper spatulae are next inserted through the opening in the transversalis fascia : the internal of these is. drawn upwards and inwards, raising the cord and drawing the epigastric artery out of the way ; the external pulls the lower border of the internal oblique and of the transversalis upwards and outwards. Both spatulte raise the peritoneum. By clearing away a little loose areolar tissue, the artery can be exposed for one inch and a half or two inches with- out difficulty. It has the genital branch of the genito-crural lying on it, and it is crossed by the circumflex iliac vein a little above Poupart's ligament: the external iliac vein is to its inner side ; these must be carefully avoided. The needle must be passed from the inner side not less than one inch above Poupart's hgament, so as to avoid the epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries. After the operation a drainage-tube may be inserted at the lower angle of the wound, and a catgut suture inserted in the divided tendon of the external oblique. The GollaUral Circulation after ligature of the external ihac is carried on by the following anastomoses : the deep epigastric with the internal mammary, intercostals, lumbar, and obturator ; circumflex iliac with lumbar and ilio- lumbar ; internal circumflex with obturator and sciatic ; external and internal circumflex and perforating with gluteal; perforating with sciatic ; external pudic with internal pudic. _ On comparing the two operations, it would appear that the principal disadvantage of Abernethy's is, that it is apt to leave a tendency to hernia, m consequence of the abdominal wall being much weakened by the free mcisions that are necessary through the muscular planes ; the great advantage attending it is, that the external iliac may be ligatured at any part of its course, and that, if requisite, the incision may be extended upwards, and the common trunk secured. In Astley Cooper's operation, the line of incision lies directly across the course of the epigastric artery, which, as well as the circumflex ihac, if It arise high, and the circumflex ihac vein which crosses the iliac artery at this point and is often somewhat funnel-shaped, may be in danger of being wounded. The spermatic cord is likewise somewhat in the way in this operation. Dupuytren actually wounded the epigastric artery in one case ; and Houston had much difficulty from the circumflex vein in another instance. This operation has also the disadvantage, that the incision upwards cannot be con- veniently prolonged so as to tie any portion of the vessel except that which les immediately above Poupart's ligament; bub the peritoneum is less dis- turbed than m the other case, and there is less tendency to hernial protrusion afterwards. As a general rule, I think we may conclude that, in cases of spontaneous aneurism, in which it might, from the size of the tumour or the diseased state of the vessels, be found necessary to apply the ligature to a higher point than was intended before the operation commenced it will be Q 2