URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. I050 mormng of the operation the rectum must be emptied by means of an enema If necessary the periuuium should be shaved. After the anassthetic has been administered all the urine in the bladder should be drawn off, and the organ injected with about six or eight ounces of warm boric acid lotion, in order to steady it and to facilitate the seizure and extraction of the stone. The Surgeon then introduces a full-sized staff, which he uses as a sound, in order to feel for the calculus. If he detects it, he pro- ceeds with the operation ; if he cannot detect it, the operation 'must be deferred, for it is an imperative rule that lithotomy should never be performed unless the stone can be felt vnth the staff immediately before cutting, as the point of this, though apparently in the bladder, might be actually engaged in a false passage. The stone, then, having been felt, the patient is to be firmly tied up. This is done by making a clove-hitch on the tape, and passing it round the wrist, after which the ends of the tape are passed round the instep and hand in a figure-of-8, as in Fig. 862. Some Surgeons prefer leather anklets, which are attached to collars round the wrists by hooks; but these take longer to apply, and have no particular advantage over the tapes. The patient is now brought to the end of the table, so that his nates project beyond it, where he is to be securely held on each side by an assistant, who grasps the foot in his hand, places the patient's knee under his arm, and draws the limb well aside, so that the perinseum may be fairly exposed. In a patient on whom I once operated this could not be done, owing to the left hip being stiffened by chronic rheumatic arthritis; but I did not experience any particular difficulty in the operation, though somewhat inconvenienced by the position of the Hmb. The Surgeon then, seating himself before the patient, introduces his finger into the rectum. This is done with three objects : first, to ascertain the depth of the perinaeum by feeling for the apex of the prostate ; secondly, to make sure that the rectum is empty ; and thirdly, to cause a contraction of the gut, which will keep it out of the way during the first incision. The staff must then be given into the charge of a trusty assistant, who stands on the patient's left, and raises the scrotum with the left hand whilst he holds the staff in the right (Fig. 862). The Surgeon then sees that the staff is held in the way in which he prefers it. There are two ways in which it may be held : it may either be drawn well up under the arch of the pubes, or it may be^pushed somewhat down, and slightly turned towards the left of the perineum. Listen always employed the first method, which I certainly think is the better, as it increases the space between the urethra and the rectum, and lessens the danger of wounding the gut, which more than counterbalances the advantage of tiie I Fig. 802.—Position of Patient and Line of Incision in Lateral Lithotomy.