MORTALITY AFTER LIGATURE. 125 it and of interfering with the collateral circulation of the limb. Those cases, also in which the aneurism is very acute in its progress, mcreasmg rapidly with forcible pulsation, having very fluid contents, and a large mouth to the sac into which the blood is consequently driven in a full wave at each pulsa- tioi of the heart, are rarely favourable for the use of the ligature, masmuch as deposit of coagulum seldom occurs. When the aneurism is situated m the midst of loose and very yielding tissues, as in the axilla, where it readily expands to a large size, not being bound down by the surrounding parts, suppuration and sloughing of the sac are especially apt to occur after ligature. When it is diffused widely through the hmb, with coldness and a tendency to incipient gangrene, the circulation of blood through the part is so much obstructed that deligation of the vessel will in all probability arrest it entirely, and thus produce mortification. When arteries can be felt to be calcified, ic is a question whether they can safely be ligatured, as in all probability the changes necessary for their occlusion will not take place. Porter, however, recommended that the ligature should be apphed in such cases, though I cannot but doubt the propriety of this advice. When inflammation has been set up in the sac, it is a debatable question whether the ligature should be applied or not. In these cases I agree with Hodgson, that the artery should be tied ; for even if the sac eventually suppurate, there will be less risk to the patient if this occur after the application of the ligature, than if it happen while the artery leading into the tumour is pervious. If suppuration have already taken place around the sac, the application of the ligature above the inflamed tumour on the point of bursting would be worse than useless. In such cases, the hne of practice must be determined by the seat of the aneurism. If this be in the axilla, groin, or neck, it should be laid freely open, the coagula scooped out, and the artery tied above and below the mouth of the sac—a most formidable and doubtful operation, but the only one that holds out a chance of success. If the aneurism be in the ham or calf, amputation would probably be the best course to pursue. ' In some instances, there is no resource left to the Surgeon but to amputate. 1. Amputation must be performed when the aneurism is associated with carious bone or a diseased joint, as when a popliteal aneurism has produced destruction of the knee. 2. If the aneurism have attained so great a size that it has already seriously interfered with the circulation through the limb, as indicated by considerable oedema, lividity, and coldness of the part, with distension of the superficial veins, it is a question whether the application of the ligature may not immediately induce gangrene, and whether the patient would not have the best chance of recovery by submitting to amputation at once ; this is more particularly the case when the aneurism, whether previously large or small, has become dilfused and gangrene is impending, when removal of the limb must not be delayed. 3. If gangrene have actually supervened and the patient's strength be suflicient to bear the operation, amputation should be done without delay. 4. If a diffused aneurism in the lower extremity, whether suppurating or not, have been opened by mistake for an abscess, an attempt may sometimes be made to save the limb by laying open the sac and ligaturing above and below its mouth, but more often immediate amputation is required. The mortality after ligature of the larger arteries for aneurism, is very considerable. Thus, in 25(! cases of ligature of the larger arteries for aneurism, collected and tabulated by Crisp, it would appear that the mortality amounted to about 22 per cent. And Porta finds that, among 600 cases of