257 OSTEOPLASTIC PERIOSTITIS, the periosteum from the boue, sometimes throughout the whole extent of tlie diaphysis. When it reaches the epiphyses the suppuration extends in the growing tissue between them and the shaft, and thus in extreme cases the whole diaphysis may lie loose in the cavity of a large abscess enclosed within the fibrous layer of the periosteum ; finally, this is perforated, and the pus diffuses itself amongst the surrounding tissues. In spite of the acuteness of the process, the periosteum very rarely sloughs, and if exit be given, to the pus the intensity of the infljunmation subsides and the periostitis assumes the osteoplastic form, new bone being abundantly deposited beneath it. Infective periostitis almost invariably leads to death of a considerable portion of the bone which has been laid bare by the separation of the membrane, but the extent that perishes does not necessarily correspond to that separated from its periosteum. Osteoplastic Periostitis.—This is essentially a chronic process. It occurs as a consequence of the slighter forms of irritation, or as a sequel of acute inflammation. It is very frequently met with also as an accompaniment of more deeply seated inflammatory mischief, as of the medulla or cancellous tissue, and in the neighbourhood of diseased joints. In young subjects it results fi'om very slight sources of irritation, being then merely an. exaggera- tion of the normal process of growth. In osteoplastic periostitis the membrane is thickened and more vascular than natural. It separates with some ease, and its under surface often feels gritty from small fragments of new bone that have come away with it. Beneath it and adherent to the compact tissue is the new bone formed as the result of the process. This may be arranged in smooth layers, parallel to the surface of the bone, in nodules or in pointed processes. "When the nodulated or spiculated masses reach any considerable size they are frequently termed osteoplnjtes. The new bone formed in the early stages of osteoplastic periostitis is soft and spongy, being traversed by large canals containing vessels surrounded by large cells. These canals are set at right angles to the surface of the bone. As recovery takes place the new bone is partly absorbed, the irregular nodular or spiculated masses are smoothed down and the remainder gradually increases in density, till it becomes indistinguishable from the compact bone beneath. Microscopic examination of the parts involved in osteoplastic periostitis shows that the swollen membrane is infiltrated with small round cells, propor- tional in number to the acuteness of the process. In the deeper layers in contact with the newly-forming bone, the cells assume the characteristic angular shape and granular appearance of osteoblasts. There seems to be a direct transition from the granulation cells infiltrating the inflamed membrane to the osteoblasts, and it has therefore been supposed that they are developed from migratmg cells, but, as in the case of productive inflammatory processes elsewhere, it seems probable that the original cells of the deeper layer of the periosteum are concerned in the formation of the new tissue after the acute stage has subsided. The new bone is formed subsequently in the same way as in normal ossification. A homogeneous ground-substance is developed between the osteoblasts which soon becomes indistinctly fibrillated and subsequently calcified. Some of the osteoblasts seem to disappear, while others remain tormmg the bone-corpuscles. The development of the inflammatory new ^owth into bone commences at the points most distant from the vessels and gradually encroaches on them till they come to lie in channels surrounded bv VOti. TT ^ J