667 OPERATION FOR DOUBLE IIARE-LIP. to the lower end of the opposite and longer raw surface. Malgaigne's method consists in leaving a similar flap attached to the lower end of each edge of the cleft, the two being drawn and sutured together after the cleft itself has been closed. In this way the presence of a notch in the edge of the lip is avoided. It sometimes, though rarely, happens in single hare-lip that the inter- maxillary portion is so large and projecting that there is difficulty in bringing the lateral segments together over it. Should this be the case, the better plan is to notch it at its alveolar border on the side that is not fissured, and then to break it back so as to remove all projection. When the fissure does not extend through the lip the operation recommended by Nelaton will be found to give most excellent results. The mode of performing it is fully explained by the accompanying figures (Figs. 721 and 722). After-Treatment.—After the operation the lips often come in close contact, and care must be taken to clear the nostrils from clots of blood, otherwise the child may be suffocated, especially if the effects of the chloroform have not fully passed off. If pins have been used these should be removed, at the end of from 72 to 96 hours, according to the age of the child. The pin must be gently twisted out in such a way that the cut end does not tear the aperture in the lip. The threads, matted together with exudation and a little blood, form a good crust, which may be left on for two or three days longer, and then allowed to separate of itself ; the less any crusts that form over the line of incision are interfered with, the better will the result usually be. If simple sutures have been used the deep ones should be removed on the fourth day, but the finer ones may be left in for a day or two longer. The lip must then be supported by the collodion and muslin or by a strip of American rubber for about a fortnight after the operation, so as to prevent stretching of the cicatrix and notching of its lower part. Double Hare-lip.—The operation for double hare-lip is performed on the same principle as that for the single form of the disease, the difierence in the operations consisting chiefly in dealing with the median portion of the lip and the intermaxillary bone (Fig. 723). The management of the intermaxillary process must vary according to its size and degree of projection. If the premaxilla and prolabium. be well developed and not projecting thev 'should certainly not be removed. The prolabium is first separated from the bone and its edges pared in a somewhat convex manner, the two raw surfaces being made to meet in a point below. A small flap is now separated from the lateral edges of the lip, and is left attached below as in single hare-lip. After the lateral parts of the lip have