IDIOPATHIC INFECTIVE OSTEOMYELITIS. 263 Osteomyelitis in its early stages is recognized by the dark red colour of the marrow. Later on the fat disappears, and soft tissue, having the ordinaiy pink colour of granulation tissue, takes its place. If bone forms it appears first in contact with the pre-existing osseous tissue. ^ Acute Diffuse Osteomyelitis is one of the most serious affections ot bone. It occurs in two forms, traumatic and idiopathic. The traumatic is usually of septic origin, and is the direct consequence of decomposition of the discharges in a wound communicating with the medullary canal, as in a compound fracture or amputation. The products of putrefaction diftuse themselves in the soft tissue of the medulla and set up acute inflammation, which rapidly ends in suppuration, and often in gangrene of the marrow. There is nothing peculiar about the process, beyond the fact that the products, being enclosed by the surrounding solid bone on all sides except at the open- ing into the canal, tend to diflPuse themselves rapidly, often extending to the cancellous tissue at the articular ends. Acute diffuse osteomyelitis may result also from the virus of the various infective inflammations which attack wounds, as erysipelas, hospital gangrene, &c., finding admission to the medullary canal. The distinction between these specific inflam- mations and that arising from the irritation caused by the products of simple putrefaction cannot usually be made, as it may be said that infective traumatic osteomyelitis never arises when the discharges of the wound are in an aseptic condition. Idiopathic Infective Osteomyelitis is rarely met with, in this country at any rate, but is described as of frequent occurrence by most German writers ; in fact, the cases which most English pathologists describe as acute infective or sup- purative periostitis, or as acute necrosis, are by German writers spoken of as acute osteomyeHtis. Infective osteomyelitis has been induced artificially by injuring a bone subcutaneously and then injecting putrid fluids containing microscopic organisms into the blood-stream. In the human subject the pus from bones affected in this way can always be shown to contain micro-organisms. The ibrm always met with is staphylococcus pyogenes (see Yol. I., p. 24:3). The virus is believed to be carried by the blood to tlie affected bone. What it is that determines the particular bone affected when the inflammation commences in the medulla is uncertain, but when the peri- osteum is primarily affected, and the medulla only implicated by extension through the compact tissue, the origin of the process can often be traced to a blow. A bone affected with acute diffuse osteomyelitis of any form presents the foTlowiug appearances on section. The medulla is in parts redder than natural, and scattered hfemorrhages are commonly met with. In other parts it is paler in colour and infiltrated with pus, which here and there is collected in abscess-cavities of various sizes. At each end of the bone the morbid condition extends into the cancellous tissue, the marrow in the spaces pre- senting the same appearances. If the osteomyelitis is of the traumatic septic form, grey gangrenous patches are usually present, and the sawn bone is abominably offensive to the smell. The compact tissue shows no definite Fig. 504.—Diffuse Osteomyelitis of Hiimcrus, after Excision of tlie ElbDW-Joint.