DISEASES OF ARTERIES. 86 the part injured and showinj;- no tendency to extension, is familiar to every Surgeon in connexion with contusion, laceration, wound, or ligature of arteries ; for in the early period of repair after any of these injuries, inflam- matory exudation from the vasa vasorum forms an essential part of tlie process. For a description of this condition, the reader is referred to Vol I Chap. XIV. ■ " Arteritis by Extension, from infective inflammation or ulceration of the tissues surrounding the vessel, has already been described as one of the dangei H accompanying these processes. In inflammation affecting an artery in this way, the process is tlic same as in other tissues. The vessels of the outer cofii are dilated, inflammatory exudation with migration of corpuscles takes place, and the wandering cells infiltrate the coats of the artery, which become sw ollen and softened. The process spreads from the outer to the inner coat, the endothelium separates, and fibrin is deposited upon the diseased surface. In the smaller arteries complete thrombosis takes place, and the clot extends npwards to the nearest branch beyond the inflamed part of the vessel, and may then undergo the changes already described as occurring in the per- manent closure of an artery (Vol. I., Wounds of Arteries), and haBmorrhagi- is thus prevented. In arteries above the size of the radial, however, the closure of the vessel is frequently not accomplished before the coats are so far softened as to give way before the pressure of the blood, and thus fatal hsemorrhage may result. This is all the more likely to occur when the in- flammation and subsequent ulceration affect a limited portion of one side- only of the artery, as in those cases in which it is due to the contact of an in-i- tating foreign body, such as a sequestrum. In the larger arteries complete thrombosis occurs much less readily than in smaller vessels or in veins, the rapidity of the flow of the blood being unfavourable to the adhesion of the white corjjuscles which is the first step in thrombosis. In arteries which have been divided and secured by ligature or otherwise, the extension of unhealthy inflammation from the wound to the exposed end of the vessel, followed by softening of its coats, and disintegration of the con- 1 tained clot is the commonest cause of secondary hfemorrhage. Embolic Arteritis.—Moxon has pointed out that a form of acute arteritis resulting in softening and swelling of the arterial wall, thus leading to the formation of an aneurism or to rupture of the vessel, is in rare cases the result of the lodgment of an embolus. A simple fibrinous embolus lodging in an artery merely obliterates the vessel without causing softening of its coats. In order that inflammatory softening may occur, it is necessary that the embolus should be derived from a part which is the seat of some infective inflammation, and that it should carry with it the unhealthy products of the process. Embolic arteritis is most likely to occur in the somewhat rare affec- tion known as ulcerative or infective endocarditis, but it has also been known to follow embolism during the course of an ordinary case of acute rheumatism. Localised arteritis arising in this way is believed to be the most common, if not the sole cause of spontaneous aneurisms in children, and in the smaller vessels of the extremities in adults. Eushton Parker has recorded a case which well illustrates this form of disease. A boy, aged 14, during an attack of acute rheumatism was suddenly seized with pain in the forearm, followed by swelling of the limb. The general swelling soon subsided, leaving a deeply-seated circumscribed tumour, which steadily increased in size for the