SPECIAL ANEUIilSAIS. i86 with redness and some oedeaia of the eyelids, and the occui-rence of noises in the head, are usually the first indications of the mischief that has occurred. In all cases, after a time, the eyeball becomes unduly prominent, and pulsa- tion of a thrilling vibratory character can be felt in the orbit; on the apphcation of the ear, a loud whizzing bruit is heard, which extends widely over the side of the head. The eyeball itself eventually falls into a state of chronic congestion ; chcmosis occurs, the cornea becomes opalescent, the aqueous humour turbid, and sight is impaired or lost. The bruit and pulsa- tion are diminished or cease on compressing the carotid artery of the side affected. Pathology.—The essential features of so-called intraorbital aneurism, or pulsating tumour of the orbit, may arise from more than one pathological condition. Eivington has collected 14 fatal cases in which the diseased parts were examined after death. In one only (Guthrie) was an aneurism found in the orbit. In this case the disease was double, and there was a circumscribed aneurism on each ophthalmic artery. In four cases no arterial disease was found : in one of these (Oetlingen) there was obliteration of some of the veins of the orbit from old inflammatory mischief, in the other three (Bowman, Aubrey, and Morton,) there was obstruction to the passage of blood from the orbit through thrombosis of the intracranial sinuses. In one (Nunneley) there was a circumscribed aneurism of the ophthalmic artery before it entered the orbit; in three (Baron, Gendrin, and Nunneley) rupture of an aneurism of the internal carotid into the cavernous sinus was found ; in one (Wecker) simple dilatation of the carotid in the cavernous sinus was the cause of the disease ; and in the remaining four, an aneurismal varix of the carotid artery and cavernous sinus was found. These four were all the result of injury, one arising from a direct wound from the point of an umbrella thrust into the opposite orbit, and the others from severe blows on the head, probably accompanied by fracture. No case of aneurism by anastomosis of the orbit has been demonstrated lij post-mortem examination, but there is strong reason to believe that tw^o cases of congenital origin which have been recorded were of this nature. The earlier observers supposed all cases to be due to aneurism by anastomosis. The fallacy of this opinion was first pointed out by Busk, who referred the symptoms to a rupture of the ophthalmic artery and the development of a circumscribed traumatic aneurism of that vessel ; this also has not been demonstrated by post-mortem observation. Nunneley doubted the correctness of this view, and referred the symptoms, in some cases, to a peculiar vascular condition of the parts, dependent more upon an affection of the veins than of the arteries, and somewhat analogous to what takes place in the exophthalmos of bronchocele. He pointed out also that although in other cases an aneurism exists, it is not in the orbit, but behind it in the cavernous sinus. In these latter cases he showed that the prominence of the eyeball is due to distension of the veins of the orbit from obstruction to the return of blood, and the pulsation is communicated to these distended veins by the aneurism in the cavernous sinus. This view is fully confirmed by the post-mortem records quoted above. In those cases in which nothing beyond obstruction to the return of blood through the cavernous sinus and consequent dilatation of the orbital veins has been found, the cause of the pulsation is not so evident. In other cases it is perhaps possible that some derangement of the vaso-motor influence of the sympathetic may really