=^32 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. The 6'o//a/.r«/! Circnlalion after ligature of the common iliac is carried on by the nnastomoses of the circumflex iliac with the lumbar : deep epigastric with the internal mammary, lumbar, and intercostal; the middle sacral with the lateral sacral; the lumbar with ilio-lumbar ; superior with middle and inferior ha^morrhoidal ; obturator and visceral branches of internal iliac with tJiose of the opposite side. Results —The earlier cases of ligature of the common iliac for aneurism were singularly successful, 7 out of 11 recovering up to 1852. Since that time the operation has frequently been repeated, but with less satisfactory msults. Stephen Smith in 18G0 collected the records of 32 cases in which this artery had been tied, of which only 8 recovered. Agnew in 1878 gives a table of 62 cases, of which 50 died and 12 recovered ; but Kiimmell in 1884 considered only 55 to be recorded with sufficient accuracy to justify their being included m a statistical table. Of these 41 died and 14 recovered ; in 16 the artery was tied for haemorrhage, and of these 13 died; in 32'for aneurism, with 22 deaths, and in the remaining 7 for vascular tumours and other causes, and of these 6 died. Gangrene has been a very rare cause of death after ligature of the common iliac. The Old Operation has been performed in more than one case of iliac aneurism, when owing to special circumstances it was not possible to tie the artery above the sac. In Syme's well known case the sac was laid open and three ligatures applied, which were believed to include the external, internal, and common iliac arteries. The patient practically recovered, but died of pleurisy after some months, before leaving the hospital. The jjost-mortem examination showed that the ligatures had been placed on the external iliac. Astley Cooper attempted the same operation in the case in which he subse- quently tied the aorta. Heath laid open the sac of an iliac aneurism which had been opened by mistake for an abscess before being admitted into University College Hospital. The external iliac was tied from within the sac, but the patient died from secondary hsemorrhage. The old operation can be performed with safety only when it is possible to compress the aorta above the sac ; and consequently, as Holmes points out, an attempt should be made to effect a cure by compression before so dangerous an operation is attempted. Ligature of the Aorta.—It is impossible not to contemplate with admi- ration the man whose mind was the first to conceive, and whose hand was the first to carry out, the application of a ligature to the abdominal aorta : and who, guided by pathological observation and physiological experiment, ventured to arrest at once the circulation through the main channel of supply to the lower half of the body, trusting to the collateral circulation for the maintenance of the vitality of the parts thus suddenly deprived of blood. Astley Cooper was the first to place a ligature on the aorta, in 1817. Since that period the operation has been six times performed for aneurism : viz., by James, of Exeter ; by Murray, at the Cape of Good Hope ; by Monteiro, at Eio de Janeiro; by South, of London; by McGuire, of Rich- mond, U.S. ; by Stokes, of Dublin ; and three times, in circumstances which will presently be described, by Czerny of Heidelberg, and Watson of Edinburgh.