i84 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. cerebral substance (Figs. 481, 482). AVhen this mode of terrainatioii occurs, there are occasionally no premonitory symptoms of impending danger ; the patient, when apparently in good health, being struck down by an attack of apoplexy which is speedily fatal. More frequently a series of those symptoms that have already been mentioned as attending many cases of this disease, precede the fatal event for a longer or shorter time. When rupture of the sac and extravasation of blood take place, death is inevitable ; at least, I am not acquainted with any case in which signs of old extravasation have been found after death. Death from rupture of the sac appears to be most frequent in younger sub- jects. In the later period of life, aneurism is commonly associated with atheromatous disease of the vessels generally, which may cause death by soften- ing and effusion of blood. According to Gull, of 20 cases occurring in persons under thirty-five years of age, 16 (or 80 per cent.) were fatal from rupture of the sac ; while in 37 cases over thirty-five, death occurred from this cause in only 14, or S8 per cent. In other cases death may result from softening of the substance of the bram, due to the obstruction offered to the passage of the blood through the aneurismal vessel. In the case of aneurism of both carotids, already men- tioned as having occurred at University College Hospital, this was the case ; both anterior cerebral lobes wej-e affected with white softening, and this condition was especially observable on that side on which the aneurism was larger. Treatment.—In the treatment of intracranial aneurism there is usually little to be done, the nature of the case not being sufficiently obvious in the majority of instances to justify active measures. The general treatment recommended for aneurisms elsewhere should certainly be adopted, such as rest, appropriate dieting and the administration of iodide of potassium. Should, how'ever, the loud rough whizz be distinctly audible over one side of the head, more especially about the. base of the skull, or by application of the Fig. 481.—Aneurism of the Left Internal Carotid, bursting into Lateral Ventricle. View of Aneurism from above, projecting into Ventricle. Fig. 482.—View of the same Aneurism from below, imbedded in substance of Hemi- spbere.