INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. a prolonged search bo miidc. Tlic bacilli are, liowever, few in numbei-, and it 18 interesting that Watson Cheyne has found much difficulty in demonstrating them in cases of tuberculous joint disease artificially produced in animals by inoculation with pure cultivations of the organism. Thirdly, the bone and joint affections in question are not uncommonly associated with tubercle of the lungs and other organs. Billroth found cheesy tuberculous deposits in internal organs in 54 per cent, of the cases of caries examined by him. Jiie lungs were most commonly alFected. It is probable that in many of these tlie general infection was secondary to the disease of the bone, though it is quite possible that in many the reverse may have been the case. Death from other tuberculous affections is by no means rare, and general tuberculosis has been known to follow operations undertaken for the cure of the local disease. Fourthly, exactly similar changes in bones have been produced experimentally in animals hy injecting into them phthisical sputum, and the pus from chronic abscesses. Lastly, Watson Cheyne has produced the typical ''strumous" diseases of bones and joints by the inoculation of pure cultivations of bacilli obtained from human tuberculosis. In the case of the bones the bacilli were injected either into the blood-vessels supplying the bone, or directly into the epiphyses or medulla. Tuberculous inflammation followed, with, in some cases, typical disease in the neighbouring joints, expansion of the bone and the formation of new bone beneath the periosteum. CLINICAL FEATURES OP THE INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OF BONE, PERIOSTITIS. Inflammation of the Periosteum is common as a result of injury, syphilis, or articular rheumatism. Of these causes rheumatism is the least common, but the existence of a true rheumatic periostitis cannot be doubted. Three cases of this nature have recently been recorded by Coutts and Garrod ; in all the periostitis affected the ulna, and was associated with organic heart disease, joint swellings, and subcutaneous rheumatic nodules. Periostitis occasionally occurs as a sequela of other acute specific diseases, such as typhoid and scarlet fever. It may be dependent upon disease of the subjacent bone, and frequently occurs in the neighbourhood of joints as the result of extension from the inflamed ligaments. Symptoms.—Simple Acute Feriostitis (p. 256) resulting from injury, such as a blow on a superficial bone, as the tibia, is characterized by the formation of a swellinof, fixed on the surface of the bone, acutely tender, and accom- panied by severe tensive aching pain, especially when the limb is in a dependent position. The skin may be slightly reddened and oedematous. Under proper treatment the symptoms soon subside in most cases, but occasionally the inflammation goes on to suppuration. In simple periostitis the pus shows but little tendency to burrow beneath the membrane, in this differing essentially from the diffuse or infective subperiosteal suppuration to be described presently (see Acute Infective Periostitis). The simple subperiosteal abscess may be followed by necrosis of a scale of bone, but more commonly after the pus is evacuated it heals without further trouble. Subacute and Chronic Feriostitis may occur as a sequel of the acute form, just described ; or the disease may from the beginning assume this form when