XTROYERSION OF TEE BLADDER : WOOD'S OPERATION. 1107 .paratus can be applied, to save the patient all the annoyance of constant Thelist operation for the remedy of this malformation that was snccess- dly performed was done, in 1859, by Ayres of New York, m the case 'a woman aged 28. The operation consisted in turmng down a.long flap skin from the abdominal wall above the exposed bladder, so that the iticular surface of the flap was next the exposed mucous membrane. Lateral aps were then dissected up from the abdominal wall on either side, and by iding these inwards and uniting them with sutures in the middle line the _iW surface of the first flap was completely covered. Three weeks later a )vering for the vulva was fashioned by dissecting up the integuments cover- ig the'' pubic bones on each side, and uniting them to each other in the dddle line and to the lower border of the reversed flap. Ayres was soon followed by Pancoast of Philadelphia, and subsequently by :olmes and Wood of London. The principle of their operations is essentially le same as that practised by Ayres, viz., that of raising flaps from the abdo- inal wall, and covering in the bladder by turning the cuticular surface of lese flaps'towards it. But the details of the operations differ chiefly in this, lat the flaps have been taken from the groins and lateral aspects of the bdominal wall, with their bases downwards, so that they might be nourished y the superficial branches of the femoral artery. Wood's Operation.—A flap composed of the skin and areolar tissue of the bdominal walls above the extroverted bladder is first dissected up. This flap 3 somewhat square in shape ; its base should correspond in width with the xposed mucous membrane. Its length should be sufficient to cover the whole f the latter. The flap is turned down with its skin-surface towards the ladder. Then a " pyriform flap," the base of which is about equal in width 0 the length of the " umbilical flap," is dissected up from each groin, the )ase of the flap being " directed towards the scrotum and thigh " (Fig. 896). These two flaps are brought together so as to meet in the median line, and to •over in the umbilical flap, the raw surfaces of the two groin-flaps being in ■A intact with the raw surface of the reversed umbilical flap. The flaps are then ;ecured in position by hare-lip pins, each pin being passed so as to transfix joth the groin flaps and a fold of the umbilical flap beneath, holding the three irmly together (Fig. 897). No sutures are required in the flaps. The edges jf the wounds left in the places from which the flaps have been raised are ;hen brought together by hare-lip pins and wire sutures (Fig. 897), and broad -trips of strapping placed across so as to support the flaps and to remove as far as possible any tension from them. The patient must be kept in bed in a dtting posture, with the knees drawn up. If the operation be successful, all the pins and sutures may be removed by iljout the sixth or eighth day, and cicatrization will probably be complete itefore the end of a month ; the exposed surface of the bladder being com- pletely covered in, leaving only a small opening about the root of the fissured penis, to which an apparatus may readily be adapted to catch the urine. If the umbilical flap be not of sufficient length, very troublesome fistulse are apt to be left at its angles, requiring further plastic operations for their cure. Il.vperience has ehown that, if the operation be left at this stage, the benefit is not permanent. The contraction of the cicatrices, and the constant tendency L<j protrusion of the mucous membrane of the bladder from beneath the new 4 B 2