POrrS DISEASE': FATlIOLOaV. 4)7. suppuration, correspond witli the course followed in tuberculous inflammations: elsewhere. And, lastly, a considerable proportion of patients dying of caries' of the spiue are found to be affected with general tuberculosis. Pathology.—Leaving out of consideration those rare instances in which the spines or transverse processes of the vertebrte arc primarily affected, we have to consider the relative frequency with which the disease copiraences in the bodies and in the intervertebral fibro-cartilages. This has been a subject of considerable difference of opinion, some Surgeons maintaining that in the o-reat majority of cases the intervertebral cartilage is the starting-point of the destructive process, and others that this is rarely, if ever, primarily affected. The cause of this uncertainty seems to be that by the time the opportunity arrives for examining the diseased structures the morbid changes are so advanced that it is impossible to say where they commenced. In the vast majority, if not in ah, of the specimens obtained at an early stage of the disease, from patients dying of some accidental complication, there is no- doubt that the starting-point of the morbid change is the bone. While, therefore, we are not in a position to deny that the disease may originate in the intervertebral discs, this mode of origin is, to say the least, rare. In connexion with the bodies of the vertebree tuberculous disease may commence superficially beneath the periosteum, or in the cancellous tissue of the bone, either centrally or beneath the epiphysial cartilage on the upper or lower surface. The pathological processes occurring in caries of the vertebrae differ in no material respect from those already described (p. 265) as taking- place in tuberculous disease of bone elsewhere. When it commences in the cancellous bone, the vessels of the medullary tissue are first dilated in the affected area (inflammatory congestion) ; the tissue next becomes infiltrated with small round cells before which the normal structures disappear. Thus the cancellous spaces become filled with new cells, amongst which capillary loops may penetrate (granulation tissue). The bony trabecule enclosing the spaces are first thinned and finally completely absorbed by the advancing cell- growth ; thus a portion of the cancellous tissue of the body of a vertebra may be destroyed, its place being occupied by granulation tissue. These changes form an essential part of all varieties of caries ; the fate of the granulation tissue, however, differs in different cases, the following being the chief modifications of the subsequent processes :— 1. The granulation tissue replacing the cancellous bone may be absorbed apparently as the result of the pressure exerted upon it by the weight of the trunk. Thus a steadily progressive destruction of bone may take place without there being any extensive accumulation of granulation tissue, and without the formation of pus. This dri/ caries, as it is termed, is very common in the spine, being the process that takes place in those numerous cases of angular curvature in which the patient escapes without the formation of an abscess. Its progress is sometimes very rapid, leading to great deformity in a very short time. 2. Instead of being absorbed the granulation tissue may undergo fatty degeneration, and a slow process of suppuratmi, with the formation of curdy pus, may take place. The pus gradually accumulates, forming a chronic abscess, which slowly forces its way to the surface, following the lines of least resistance. 3. The granulation tissue may caseate early, before the bony trabeculse