E 2 VENOUS THROMBOSIS. CHAPTER XL. DISEASES OF VEINS. VENOUS THROMBOSIS. Thrombosis or coagulation of the blood in the vessels during life is veiy common in the veins. Causes.—^The exact nature of the process of coagulation of the blood is still far from being fully understood. The view generally entertained at the present time is that fibrin does not exist as such in the blood, but is formed from two substances, fibrinogen and fibrin-ferment. The fibrinogen is con- tained in the blood-plasma in solution. The fibrin-ferment is not supposed to be present in a free state in the blood as it circulates in the body, but is liberated from some of the colourless corpuscles under certain conditions. Blood, in contact with the walls of vessels which, to use Cobnheim's expres- sion, are in a state of " physiological integrity," shows no tendency to coagulate, but when it is brought in contact with dead matter clotting takes place. In the same way, if the integrity of the vessels is damaged by disease or injury fibrin becomes deposited at the damaged spot. The presence of free ferment in the blood may also cause coagulation in the living body. Kohler has shown that if a sufficient quantity of fibrin-ferment be experimentally introduced into the blood-stream, rapid coagulation will take place, even in contact with healthy vessels. If a smaller quantity is injected there is severe febrile disturbance, but thrombosis does not take place, the influence of the healthy walls of the vessels being then supposed to be sufficient to arrest coagulation until the ferment is eliminated from the blood. Other substances have been shown to be capable of causing extensive coagulation in the living vessels. Thus "Wooldridge showed that a phosphorized fat known as lecithin, which may be obtained from the lymphatic glands, testis, brain, and other tissues, causes rapid coagulation and death from cardiac thrombosis if injected into the blood-stream. On the other hand, if peptones be injected into the blood-stream during life, blood drawn shortly afterwards fails to coagulate. These observations show that the coagulability of the blood may be directly mfluenced by the admixture of various foreign substances with it. Retardation, or arrest of the blood-stream, acts as a powerful predisposing cause of thrombosis. These conditions apply equally to all vessels, whetlier arteries, capillaries, or veins, but we have to consider them here in reference to the veins only. The causes of venous'thrombosis may be thus classified :— 1. Changes in the condition of the wall of the vessel due to (a) injury ; (.&) inflammation ; (c) degeneration.