634 DISEASES OF THE ANTRUM AND UPPER JAW. the base of the skull, uiay be followed by death from shock, as I saw hapnen in a patient of Lieton's ; or, involvino- the internal mnxillary artery, may ]i attended with very profuse h£Emorrha<^e. AVhen once a malignant growth of this part has passed beyond the osseous boundaries of the antrnra, the question ot removal becomes very complicated. In reference to this point I think that It may be stated generally that, if the cheek be freely movable'over the tumour, and the lymphatic glands unaft'ected, the operation raav be undeN taken. But, if it have advanced so far as to implicate the soft structures of the cheek, with enlargement of the submaxillary lymphatic glands, it is not pradent to interfere with it by operation ; as infiltration will have taken place more widely than the knife can reach, and speedy recurrence must of necessity ensue. So long as it is contained within the cavity of the antrum, where indeed it is often impossible to ascertain, until after removal, the true'natnre of the affection, it may be excised, provided the glands in the neck be not enlarged. ]f they be much implicated, even though the walls of the antrum be not per- forated, it is wrong to interfere, as a cure by operative procedure must be hopeless. When both jaws are affected, as sometimes has happened, it is very rarely that any operation is possible (Fig. G92). Operations on the Upper Jaw.—The O])oratians that have been practised for the removal of tumours springing from the upper jaw are of three kinds. They consist of—1^ Scooping out of the Tumour; 2, Partial Excision of the Superior Maxilla ; and 3, its Complete Removal with or without the Malar Fig. 092.—Malignant Tumour of the Upper BoUC. Jaw, involving tlie whole of tlie Bones uf -p, the Face; not admitting of operation. 1'Or Operations Oil the Upper jaW, the Surgeon will require strong cutting forceps, and two or three narrow-bladed saws, with handles set at diflPerent angles, and having movable backs (Fig. 693). 1. Scooping out the Tumour.—The practice of scooping out tumours of the antrum, after turning up the cheek f^'om its anterior surface, is one on the propriety of which there is a diflFerence of opinion among Surgeons. Liston, whose experience in these diseases was in his day unrivalled, denounced all "grubbing" operations ; and Syme strongly disapproved of the practice. But other Surgeons, whose views on the subject are entitled to the highest respect, advocate and practise this proceeding. For my own part, I look upon the practice as unscientific in principle and disastrous in its results. It is applicable only to the softer kinds of tumours, and these are chiefiy sarco- mata. Now I hold it to be generally impossible, by gouging or scraping, to extirpate these coinpletelj^ from any bone in which they may be developed. It is impossible in this way fairly to go beyond the limits of the disease into healthy structures. Tissues that appear and feel sound, are in reality infil- trated ; hence speedy recurrence takes place. This has liappened in every case in which I have seen this operation practised ; and the recurrent is worse in all its features—more rapid, more luxuriant, more malignant—than the primary disease. In fact, there is no reason why, in operations on the jaws,