384 DISEASES OF THE SIIOULDER-JOINT. capsule as far as the margin of the gleuoid cavity. If the long tendon of the biceps be still undestroyed by the disease it must be turned out of the groove and held to the outer sido in a blunt hook. The assistant then rotates the arm forcibly outwards, so as to bring the small tuberosity well into the wound, and the Surgeon separates the tendon of the subscapularis and the periosteum from the bone with a periosteal elevator. In most cases of disease of the joint this can be done without great difficulty, as the adhesion of the tendon to the bone is loosened by the inflammation. Should the adhesion of the tendon be too firm to allow of its being stripped oil" with the elevator the knife must be used, but care should be taken to shave the capsule oft' in such a way as, if possible, to leave it still connected with the periosteum covering the upper part of the humerus. The arm then being rotated inwards, and the limb allowed to fall over the edge of the table, the three muscles inserted into the great tuberosity are separated from the bone in the same way as the subscapularis. During this part of the operation the biceps teudon must be drawn to the inner side with a blunt hook. The assistant then forces the head of the bone up into the wound whilst the Surgeon separates the posterior part of the capsule with an elevator, leaving it attached, if possible, to the periosteum below. He now takes the limb in his own hands, and having the soft parts weU retracted, he pushes the head of the bone out of the wound so as to allow the easy apphcation ot the saw by which it is removed. Should the parts around the head of the bone be thickened, and unyielding, more space may be gained by makmg a short cross cut at the upper end of the longitudinal incision, and thus converting it into a modification of the 1 or J- By this method of operating, the Posterior cir- cumflex artery and the circumflex nerve are not divided and but few vessels wiU be found to require ligature. The fibres of the deltoid are little interfeied Tith ancHf the incision be not carried too low, the insertion of the pectorahs maior will be at most only partially cut through. It is recommended by Tome Surgeons to make a small opening behind through winch a dramage- tXcan be passed, emerging a little below the acromion. In doing th^ ca must be taken to keep well above the posterior circumflex artery. By this