BI^EA^A'S OF THE yERVOUS SYSTEAl. 3° near the tommen rotundiim. In doinj.- this the termination of the internal maxillary artery may be wonnded. ]f this happens the vessel may be twisted or tied, or if this fails the bleeding may be arrested by the oautery. Various modifications of this method have been employed by Chavasse, Treves and others. ' Suppuration in the cavity of the antrum has not unfrcquently followed In a case operated on by this method in University College Hospital after avulsion of tlie nerve at the infra-orbital foramen had failed, a mucous polypus of considerable size was found in the antrum. The operation was followed bv perfect relief of the neuralgia, but the cavity continued to discharge pus foV several months, and as the normal aperture did not allow sufficient drain- age, the lower angle of the wound had to be kept open by a tube. Possibly this might have been avoided by making an opening from the lowest part of the antrum into the nose at the time of the operation through which the cavity might have been syringed out with an antiseptic fluid. Wagner, Horsley and others recommend that the nerve be traced backwards in the orbit. Horsley operates as follows :—An incision, dividing the periosteum, is made along the inferior orbital margin and a short one at right angles to it over the infra-orbital foramen. The periosteum is turned down from the jaw until the nerve is exposed and can be divided at its exit from the foramen. The periosteum is next separated from the floor of the orbit, and the infra- orbital canal opened up with sharp-pointed bone forceps. In this way the nerve can be followed back and divided where it leaves the foramen rotundum. Horsley recommends that, before beginning the operation, the eyelids should be stitched together with horse-hair to lessen the risk of conjunctivitis. Braun, Liicke, Lossen, and others have operated in the pterygo-maxillary region. In order to expose the nerve in this way, an incision is commenced just behind the middle of the outer margin of the orbit, and earned down- wards to a point opposite the last upper molar. From the upper end of this another is carried backwards to the root of the zygoma. The malar bone and zygoma are cut through, and the arch turned down with the masseter attached. The fat beneath is then pushed back, and if necessary some of the fibres of the temporal muscle which are inserted into the posterior part of the coronoid process of the jaw are divided. The posterior part of the superior maxilla is then recognized and followed upwards and backwards to the spheno- maxillary fossa. The nerve is next raised with a blunt hook and divided, as large a piece as possible being removed. As the internal maxillary artery and a plexus of veins which lie in the fat may cause -troublesome hsemorrhage, the dissection should be carried out with a blunt instrument. After the operation the malar bone is replaced and secured by sutures. In some of the cases in which the operation has been performed considerable stiflness of the jaw has been left. Third or Inferior Maxillary Division of the Fifth.—The chief branches of this nerve, the lingual, inferior dental, auriculo-temporal and buccal, have been submitted to operative treatment in neuralgia. The lingual is easily reached from within the mouth. It runs obliquely forwards to the side of the tongue from a point immediately internal to the last molar tooth. It is covered only by the mucous membrane, and forms a distinct ridge if the tongue be pulled forcibly outwards and to the opposite side. In this situation, the nerve can readily be seized and stretched by means of a