"56 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. CHAPTER LXXI. DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. URETHRITIS. Simple Inflammation of the Urethra is especially apt to occur in strumous, rheumatic, or gouty individuals, from slight sources of irritation that would not excite it in more healthy constitutions. In strumous children, it may arise from worms in the intestines, or from gastric irritation ; and in gouty or rheumatic subjects, it appears often to occur in connexion with an acid state of the urine. Excessive beer drinking may cause a slight discharge from the urethra—the " Biertripper " of the German students. In other cases, the irritation of a stricture, the passage of instruments, or ordinary tjjj sexual intercourse, may occasion the disease, without there being anything of a specific character about it. Contact with women who are out of health, pregnant, or suffering from leucorrhoea, often gives rise to local irritation of >f this kind. Urethritis, especially when arising from sexual intercourse, is fr& quently mistaken for gonorrhoea. From this it may, as a rule, be distin guished by the less intense degree of inflammation, and by the absence of the*' secondary consequences that frequently follow true gonorrhoea ; yet, in many instances, the diagnosis is extremely difficult, especially from the subacute forms of gonorrhoea that are common in London. Increasing experience seems to show that the decision as to the gonorrhoeal or simple character of a urethritis is best determined by the presence or absence of the gonococcus in the discharges. Symptoms.—Urethritis is characterized by heat, pricking, and tension about the urethra for a day or two, followed by muco-purulent discharge,t often rather profuse, and accompanied by some ardor urinse. The symptoms are not severe, and the disease usually subsides at the end of a week or teni days; but sometimes it becomes chronic, especially if conjoined with stricture,; and is then extremely troublesome, particularly in gouty individuals. In the Treatment of urethritis the bowels should be kept open, andt salines freely administered ; in cases in which there is reason to believe thai the affection is of gouty origin, small doses of colchicum, in combination withl alkalies, will be found of especial service. The use of emollient or slightly^ astringent injections, such as opiate lotions, or a very weak solution of acetate* of lead, with belladonna, will be found serviceable as the disease is on the« decline, but not until then ; and when the affection has reached a chronic stage, small doses of copaiba may advantageously be administered. The diet* in all cases should be of the blandest character, stimulants of all kinds beingi interdicted. If the disease be conjoined with slight stricture, it may not unfrequently give rise to temporary retention of urine. This may, however, most commonly. ft