ACUTE NECROSIS: TREATMENT. 279 before the injection is made, one of the long bones be bruised or broken, suppuration follows at the seat of injury. Further observations are required in those cases in which suppurative periostitis follows acute specific diseases, such as typhoid and scarlet fever. These are probably examples of acute necrosis in which the organisms of suppuration have gained access to the blood through one of the local lesions of the acute specific, such as a typhoid ulcer. Achalme has, however, recorded a case of abscess of the tibia following typhoid fever, in which the pus contained only bacilli, in every respect similar to those which are supposed to cause that disease. The complications of acute necrosis can all be accounted for by the dis- semination of the organisms of suppuration through the blood-stream. In some cases the secondary foci of suppuration are limited to the bones, but ordinary embolic pyaemia is not uncommon and results from infective phlebitis and thrombosis in the veins of the bone or of the soft parts around it. Small abscesses in the myocardium are especially common. Results.—As the name " acute necrosis " implies, the disease almost invariably results in more or less extensive death of the compact tissue. The extent of the necrosis by no means necessarily corresponds to the area from which the periosteum has been raised by the pus, for after this has been evacuated, the membrane may adhere again to a considerable extent, and the connexion between its vessels and those of the bone be re-established. In a case lately in University College Hospital the tibia was felt to be bare from one end of the shaft to the other, yet after free incisions were made no necrosis followed, except over an area of about one square inch near the lower end. The after-history of the dead bone, the process of separation of the sequestrum and repan-, will be fully described with necrosis in general. Diagnosis.—Before the local symptoms become evident, especially in fat children, the disease is easily mistaken for one of the acute specific fevers. So likely is this to happen, that in cases of sudden severe febrile disturbance of doubtful nature in children, the bones should always be examined. When the swelling sets in,ic maybe mistaken for phlegmonous erysipelas or cellulitis, but these conditions are rare in childhood. When pus is suspected, a puncture should be made with a grooved needle or an aspirator, by which the diagnosis can usually be cleared up. When an epiphysis is separated the aflPection may be mistaken for disease of the neighbouring joint. Prognosis.—The prognosis of acute necrosis is always grave, but as Billroth points out, it is probably not so fatal as hospital statistics would make it appear. The milder cases, in which the extension of the inflammation is Hmited, are often treated at home, and come under hospital treatment only at a later period, for removal of the sequestra. In fact, the great majority of cases of extensive necrosis of the long bones in young subjects are the result of this disease. Treatment.—The only treatment is to cut down upon the bone and let out the pus at the earliest possible period. In the thigh the incision is best made on the outer side ; in the leg in front, over the tibia. If the lower end of the femur is chiefly affected the incision should be parallel to the anterior border of the biceps. In this way the ham may be opened up without endangerino- the synovial pouch of the knee. The incisions must be free, and if necessary several may be made. The wounds must be well drained and treated anti-