I 454 DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. on the Hmb alone, and pirouetted and hopped two or three yards without 1 putting the sound limb to the ground." In several of my own cases an ] excellent, strong and straight limb has been left, useful for all ordinary « purposes. In a case which 1 examined seven years after the operation, tl' limb was well nourished, straight, firmly ankylosed, and but very litth shortened. The patient, a lad of twenty, could walk eight or ten miles, and even jump and sfcaud on the limb without the least pain, sign of weakness, oi- difficulty. In very young children the result of the operation is not sati - factory, the leg continuing shortened and wasted, not developing with the n -' of the body. This is apparently due to and dependent upon the removal of the epiphysis of the tibia, on the integrity of which the growth of that bone is dependent. After the operation, osseous ankylosis takes place with a firm cicatrix ; the limb is shortened from one to three inches, according to the amount of bone removed, but by means of a high-heeled shoe this inconvenience is to a grcut extent remedied. It has been urged against excision of the knee-joint, that convalescence is tedious and prolonged; but this argument can with justice have but little weight. If a useful limb can be preserved to the patient, it can matter but little if a few additional weeks be devoted to the procedure l which it is obtained : and, indeed, it is a question whether in many cases the patient may not be able to walk just as soon after excision of the knee-joint as after amputation of the thigh ; for, as has been very properly remarked, though the amputation wound may be healed in three or four weeks, it may be as many months before an artificial limb can be worn. Most valuable information as to the subsequent condition of the limb is obtained by a study of Howse's cases above referred to. " Of the 130 cases there were 65, or exactly 50 per cent., in which the results are hioivn to be most satisfactory a long period (often many years) after the operation." Id most of these the shortening was less than one inch, and the limb was straight or very slightly flexed ; in 8 the shortening exceeded two inches, " but in every case the resulting limb was most serviceable, and far superior to a stump." Twenty-one cases were not traced, but the result was good when they left the hospital. In 12 cases the leg became flexed to a considerable angle. In 26 cases subsequent amputation was necessary, in two of them on account of albumenoid disease, which then gradually disappeared ; in several of these the excision was done in advanced cases as an attempt to save the limb. It is thus evident that by excision a firm, useful limb may be obtained in a large proportion of cases, and a similar record of cases treated by arthrectomy is needed before an accurate comparison of the two methods is possible. ™ | DISEASES OF THE PATELLA. Necrosis of the patella is rare. I have, however, met with two instances. In the case of an elderly woman, the necrosis came on without any evident external cause, commencing in the anterior part of the patella and gradually implicating the bone, until it became perforated, when rapid suppurative disorganization of the knee-joint ensued, necessitating amputation. The other case occurred after simple fracture of the patella, in a man, and is described in Yol. I., p. 032.