I250 DISEASES OF THE TESTIS AND CORD. some cases he is almost debarred from taking exercise, and is prevented from followmg- any active occupation. Debility of tlie generative organs, with a tendency to seniinal emissions and much mental depression, frequently accom panies varicocele. Although the testicle of the affected side often feels rathei smaller and softer than its fellow, atrophy as a result of varicocele is extremely rare. Kiipture of one of the dilated veins may occur from external iniurv giving rise to an enormous extravasation of blood into the areolar tissue of tli^ scrotum Of this Pott relates a case. I have known the accident to be attended with fatal consequences. A man who "had been romping with his wife' received a blow on a varicocele, when an enormous extravasation of bloo(! rapidly formed in the scrotum and the cord, for which he was admitted into the Hospital. The tumour was incised, and large masses of coagula were turned out. The patient shortly after, in the absence of assistance, suddenly became faint and died of venous haemorrhage. The bleeding was found ta have proceeded from a ruptured spermatic vein. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of varicocele is always sufficiently easy; i peculiar convoluted feel, its broad base and narrow apex, the manner in which it goes up when the patient lies down, and returns again when he stands up, are sufficient to distinguish it from all other scrotal tumours. From Liguirud hernia the disease may be distinguished by attention to the test described at p. 868. The Treatment of varicocele must be conducted with reference to the severity of the symptoms occasioned by it, and to the extent of the disease. When, as is usually the case, it gives rise to but slight inconvenience, palliative treatment is sufficient; but if, as occasionally happens, the disease be a source of actual suffering, or tend to the induction of generative debility, with much mental disquietude or hypochondriasis, then the Surgeon may feel disposed to endeavour to cure the varicocele radically. The Palliative Treatment of varicocele consists in improving the con- dition of the general health by the use of tonics, improving the tone of the part by cold douches and sea-bathing, and supporting the scrotum in a well- made suspensory bandage. The Radical Cure of Varicocele consists in the obliteration of the enlarged veins, on the same principle that guides us in the management of varix in other situations. The circumstances for which operation may be practised are as follows :— 1. When the existence of a varicocele disqualifies the suflPererfrom admission into the public services. One of the cases in which I have effected a radical cure was that of a man in the prime of life, who, wishing to enlist in the Marines, was refused solely on the ground of his having a small varicocele. This I cured by operation, and the man afterwards entered the service. 2. In some cases, the presence of a varicocele of inordinate size causes a distressing sense of weight and pain in the loins and groins, and often inability to stand or walk for any length of time. Here, when the patient is in continual discomfort, or more or less prevented from pursuing his ordinary avocations, it is perfectly justifiable to resort to operation. 3. Cases not uncommonly occur where the pressure of the enlarged veins on the spermatic nerve produces repeated attacks of spermatorrhoea. These cases are, however, more frequently met with out of hospitals, than m individuals of the class who apply to such institutions for relief. In fact.