SAHCOMA OF BONE: CENTRAL—PERIPJJERAL. 317 simple, 1 calcilied, 3 ossifying, aud 1 fibroid ; spindle-celled 19, of which 15 WQXQ simple, 2 developing cartilage, and 2 calcified ; mixed-celled 22, of which 18 were simple, 3 ossifying, and 1 calcified ; and myeloid 17, of which 14 were simple, and 3 conLaiued bony spicula. According to Gross, if the long bones Fig. 530.—Giant-cell from Myeloid Fig. 531.—Fusiform anrl oat-shaped Cells Sarcoma. from Myeloid Tumour. only be considered, myeloid tumours form a much larger proportion than in Buthu's table. All the central sarcomata, except the myeloid, tend to difi'Qse themselves widely through the medullary canal ; the myeloid tumour often remains tolerably sharply limited to the articular end of the bone in which it commenced, and may even be shut off from the medullary canal by a dense plate of new bone. As a central sarcoma grows, the bone becomes " expanded" by it till a mere shell, often deficient in parts, is left. If the tumour be very soft or contain cysts, this may in parts give the sensation of " egg-shell crackling." In Peripheral, or Periosteal Sarcoma, there is no expansion of bone. The tumour is from the first elastic and fixed, commen- cing usually at one side, but often at a later period embracing the whole bone. The forms of sarcoma met with in 80 examples collected by Butlin were the following: round-celled 30, of which 22 were simple, 6 ossifying, and 2 chondrifying ; spindle-celled 22, of which 13 were simple, 3 ossifying, and 6 chondrifying, and in some cases subse- quently becoming ossified or calcified ; mixed round- and spindle-celled 28, of which 11 were simple, 6 ossifying, 5 calcifying, and 6 developing cartilage. When the tumour ossifies or calcifies it does not pene- trate deeply into the compact tissue ; when these changes do not take place the bone becomes eroded and spontaneous fi-acture is very likely to occur. The pain accompanying a subperiosteal tumour is usually less severe than that of a central sarcoma. The tumour varies in consistence according to its nature from firm and elastic to semi-fluctuating. In some cases pulsation of a Fig. 532.—Calcified Nodule of Sarcoma of the Lung, secondary to a similar growth in a long Bone (188 diam.) a. Decalcified. Tlie fiat grey Surface represents the Calcified Stroma, b. Not decalcified. Shows the glistening bars of Calcified Stroma passing between the granular cells, which in some parts also are calcified.