^°22 DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. the urine from the other have been devised, but have not proved of mnoh practical vaUie. Lewers has found it easy in the female to collect the urinp from eacli ureter by dilating the urethra and introducing one piece of I Bryant s rectal speculum into the bladder. The speculum is held so that i? covers one ureter, whilst the urine from the other collects in its hollow Lastly, It 18 urged as one of the great advantages of nephrectomy bv an abdominal incision that it allows the condition of the other kidney to be ascertained ; but even this only serves to show whether or not marked structural changes are i)resent, and can give no indication of its secretory power M Lumbar Nephrectomy.—If the lumbar method be adopted the transvers? incision, with the vertical extension carried from it to the crest of the ihum is the best, as giving most room. The early steps of the operation are the same as in nephro-lithotomy. When the capsule is reached this must be opened in cases of calculous or tuberculous pyehtis ; in other cases it should? be preserved uninjured if possible. The kidney is then carefully enucleated with the fingers of one hand till it remains attached merely by its pedicle. In doing this care must be taken to keep close to the gland lest the peritoneum or colon be torn. The kidney may now be drawn forwards in the wound, and if the ureter can be isolated, this should be done and a double ligature passed round it. It may then be divided between the ligatures, its end being touched as it is cut with a solution of chloride of zinc lest septic matter pass from it into the wound. In cases of pyonephrosis it is usually impossible to separate the ureter from the rest of the pedicle. A strong carbolized silk ligature is now passed through the pedicle, and it is tied in two pieces. If this be done carefully with a blunt aneurism-needle there is no fear of puncturing the renal vein. The pedicle at this stage must not be dragged on too forcibly, first, for fear of tearing it, and secondly, lest on the right side the ligature be applied too close to the vena cava. The pedicle having been securely tied, the kidney is cut off with a pair of scissors, not too close to the ligature. All bleeding having been arrested, the ligatures are cut short and the wound is closed, a large drainage-tube being inserted and the case treated as an ordinary wound in any other part of the body by some form of antiseptic dressing. The chief dangers during the operation are haemorrhage from the substance of the kidney in the case of a tumour, wound of the peritoneum, and wound of the colon in cases of pyonephrosis. These are avoided by keeping outside the capsule in the former case, and inside in the latter. The shock of the operation is great, and often directly fatal. Abdominal Nephrectomy is performed with all the precautions already laid down as being necessary in abdominal operations (p. 819). The incision now adopted in all cases is that recommended by Langenbuch, in the linea semilunaris. It should commence, according to Thornton, just below the ribs, a narrow hand's breadth from the middle line, and be carried downwards for about four inches. As soon as the abdomen is opened the hand is introduced and the condition of the opposite kidney and ureter investigated. The intestines being held aside with a flat sponge, the peritoneum external to the colon is carefully divided, all bleeding being immediately arrested by forcipressure forceps. The pedicle of the kidney is then exposed, and the vessels ligatured, either separately or in the same way ns in the lumbar operations. The enucleation of the tumour can then be completed, and finally the ureter is divided between two ligatures, care being taken that while so doing none of