350 DISEASES OF JOINTS. Even when the suppuration is very chronic there is usually some slight evening elevation of temperature, seldom, however, exceeding 101° F. After the abscess has hurst, the constitutional symptoms become more severe, hectic may speedily set in, and tuberculous disease of other organs, such as the lungs, may carry oflF the patient. Terminations.—Tuberculous disease of joints resembles tubercle elsewhere in its course and terminations. It may end in recovery by the development of fibrous tissue from the vascular granulation tissue surrounding the tubercle, the actual nodules withering and remaining harmlessly embedded in scarlike fibroid tissue, or the tuberculous tissue may caseate and soften, giving rise to the formation of a chronic abscess, the tubercle being thus in some cases eliminated from the body. Calcification rarely if ever occurs in tuberculous disease of the synovial membrane. The course taken by the disease depends partly on the constitutional state of the patient, partly on the hygienic con- ditions by which he is surrounded, and partly on the treatment he receives. Eecovery in most cases may be hoped for if the constitution is generally sound, if the patient is well fed, well clothed, and can spend a great part of the day in the open air in a healthy place, and above all, if such treatment is adopted as to give perfect rest to the diseased joint. On the other hand, in extremely scrofulous subjects the disease will often progress to destruction of the joint in spite of favourable surroundings and good treatment, and the same result fre- quently follows amongst the poor of large cities owing to the unfavourable hygienic conditions in which they are placed. Lastly, unless by proper treat- ment perfect and prolonged rest is given to the diseased joint there is no hope of recovery, however favourable the other conditions may be. Imperfect recovery, with a stiffened and deformed limb, may occur after complete destruction of the articulation, especially when as the result of dis- location the diseased surfaces are no longer exposed to the irritation caused by the friction of one against the other. This is not uncommon in the hip. In a considerable proportion of cases the patient dies of tuberculous disease of the lungs or general tuberculosis before recovery of the joint has taken place. Duration.—Tuberculous disease of joints usually runs a very chronic course. Eecovery can rarely be hoped for under six months, and most commonly treat- ment has to be maintained for twelve months, and sometimes for even two or three years. Treatment.—In the treatment of tuberculous diseases of joints every effort must be made to improve the general health. We must therefore follow the rules of constitutional treatment laid down in Chapter XXXV., Yol. I., without which the local treatment about to be described will often prove ineffectual. Eeference has already been made to the use of tuberculin in Yob I., p. 1101. In the local treatment in the early stage, our first object is to arrest the progress of the disease, and, if possible, to prevent the occurrence of suppura- tion. The one essential condition for this is that the joint he put at ijerfed rest, without which all other treatment will be futile. By perfect rest we mean that the joint shall be so fixed by some suitable apparatus that the slightest movement of the articular surfaces upon each other is impossible, and, if it be in the lower extremity, that the patient shall bear no weight upon the affected limb. In almost all cases it is necessary that this absolute rest should be