46 DISEASES OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. lympliiitic glands may also occur secondarily to some priniaiy tuberculous lesion elsewhere. Thus, for example, the gland above the internal condyle of the humerus is not unfrequently infected in cases of tuberculous caries affect- ing the bones of the hand or fingers. In some rare instances the lymphatic vessels between the primary focus and the secondary deposit in the glands are themselves similarly diseased. Finally, in some cases of general tuberculosis the lymphatic glands may be the seat of miliary tubercles. Symptoms.—Tuberculous disease of lymphatic glands occurs principally in children and young adults. Any gland may be affected, but those with which the Surgeon most often has to deal are the glands in the neck, especially those in the submaxillary region and the glandules concatenatae, and sometimes the axillary and inguinal glands. The glands slowly increase in size, at first remaining clearly defined and distinct from each other. They may after a time cease to enlarge, and remain permanently without further change, but more commonly after continuing in this state a variable time they soften. The inflammation then extends to the surrounding tissues, and the glands iDecome adherent to neigh- bouring parts, and finally to the skin. Several glands may thus become fused together, forming a large indurated and nodulated mass (Fig. 424). Suppuration takes place slowly, and the skin becomes thin, blue, and undermined. Finally, it gives way by a small opening, and curdy pus is discharged, mixed with the debris from the softened cheesy matter from the gland. The discharge may continue for weeks or months, being kept up partly by the gradual expulsion of the remains of the degenerated gland, and partly by the thinned and undermined skin being too feeble to take any part in healthy repair. The opening may close for a time, bursting open and dis- charging again at intervals. In other cases the thinned skin perishes, and the remains of the gland may be exposed as a reddish-grey or fleshy mass protruding in the midst of the sore. When these sores finally heal, they leave thin blue cicatrices ultimately forming irregular puckered scars. Pathological Anatomy.—A lymphatic gland affected by a simple chronic inflammatory process is often enlarged to many times its normal size. It is usually more opaque than natural, and of a grey or dull pink colour. The consistence varies ; in many cases the gland is softer than natural, but not uncommonly it is indurated, as the result of thickening of the trabeculte and capsule and of the meshes of the retiform connective tissue. Microscopic examination of glands thus affected shows a great increase in the lymphoid corpuscles, not only in the foUicles of the gland, but also choking the lymph-sinuses. Amongst the new corpuscles larger cells are found many times the size of a lymph-corpuscle, and apparently developed from them,, as