597 ■NASO-PHARYNaEAL FIBROMA : TREATMENT. Tlie Treatment consists in their removal whenever this is possible. When the tumour is pedunculated it may be possible to pass the loop of a galvanic ecraseur or of a common wire ecraseur round the pedicle from the nose. This is, however, seldom practicable. Electrolysis is said to have been successfully used in the destruction of these tumours, but its efficacy is somewhat doubtful. When any cutting operation is adopted it is always safer, as great hsemorrhage may be expected, to do a preliminary tracheotomy and to plug the trachea • with Trendelenburg's obturator, or to pass a large sponge into the pharynx, otherwise death may be caused by entrance of blood into the lungs. The method generally recognized as being most generally applicable at the present day, is removal by means of Paquelin's red-hot knife ; but in order to do this it is necessary to expose the tumour fully, and several plans have been sug- gested of doing this, of which the following are the most important. Ill 1862 William Lawrence exposed the nasal fossse for the removal of polypi by carrying an incision round the nose, commencing on one side just internal to the lachrymal sac and terminating at the same point on the other side, passing below between the alas nasi and the upper lip. The alse nasi wei'c then separated from the bone and the nasal process of the superior maxilla divided in the incision with cutting forceps. The septum being then divi led, the nose was turned upwards. The nasal cavity is thus very fully exposed and the space obtained may in some cases be sufficient for the removal of a naso-pharyngeal tumour of considerable size. Oilier recommends a somewhat similar operation, but carries his incision in the opposite direction, commencing at the ala on one side, passing up the side of the nose to the level of the lower margin of the orbit, then across the bridge and down the opposite side, terminating at the ala. The nasal bones and the nasal process of the superior maxilla, so far as it is concerned in the tumour, are then cut through with a fine saw and the nose turned downwards, by which the upper part of the nasal cavity is very fully exposed. In both these methods the nose is replaced alter the operation and very little deformity results. Eouge's operation (p. 591) might in some cases give sufficient access to the nasal cavity. Manne of Avignon in 1711 attempted to reach these tumours from the mouth by dividing the soft palate. Nelaton extends the operation thus : A transverse incision is first made across the hard palate at the level of the second bicuspid teeth ; from the middle of this a second incision is carried backwards, dividing the soft structures of the hard palate and the soft palate. By means of the periosteal elevator and scissors the two flaps thus formed are separated from the bone and turned downwards and outwards, out of the way. The exposed part of the hard palate is then removed with a chisel and mallet, and thus the posterior part of the nasal cavity and the upper part of the pharynx are brought very fully into view. After the removal of the tumour the flaps are united by sutures as in the operation for congenital cleft palate. Complete removal of the superior maxilla by Syme, Flaubert, and others, has been adopted as a preliminary step to removal of the fibrous tumour when Of unusual size. Langenbeck and others have performed partial excisions of the upper jaw, with replacement of the bone after the operation. These nro- ceedings are more fully described in Chapter LVL ^