239 LIGATURE OF COMMON FEMORAL. Surgeon should never fail to pass his hand behind and examine the ham in every case of persistent " rheumatic" pain in the knee. There is also a difficulty in straightening the limb, which is generally kept semi-flexed. The tumour increases usually with great rapidity, and has a tendency to become diffused; these conditions will, however, materially depend on the side of the artery from which it springs. When it arises from the anterior aspect, next the bone, it increases slowly, being compressed by the firm structures before it. In this case, however, there is the great danger that, by its pressure upon the bones and knee, it may give rise to caries and destruction of the joint. When it springs from the posterior part of the artery, where it is uncompressed, it increases rapidly, and may speedily become diffuse. The diffusion of an aneurism in this situation may take place in two directions. If it be femoro-popliteal, it may give way into the general areolar tissue of the thigh, the blood diffusing itself as high perhaps as Scarpa's triangle. When it is confined to the ham, it may give way either under the integuments and into the superficial structures of the limb, or else under the deep fascia of the leg, where it will compress the posterior tibial nerve and artery. In all cases, the diffusion of popliteal aneurism is likely to be followed by gangrene. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of popliteal aneurism has to be made from chronic abscess, from bursal enlargements, and from solid tumours. In distinguishing it from chronic abscess no serious difiiculty will be experienced ; but it may happen that, when an aneurism has suppurated, considerable difficulty may arise in determining its true nature—whether it be merely an abscess or not. On such cases as these, the state of the circulation in the lower part of the limb will throw much light. Bursal tumours, often of large size and multilocular, are not unfrequently met with in the ham ; but I have never found any great difficulty in determining their, true nature—their elasticity and roundness, together with their mobility and want of puliation, being sufficiently indicative of their character. The most serious difficulty may arise from confounding consoKdated aneurisms of the ham with solid tumours, of a sarcomatous character, springing from the tibia and femur ; and I have known one case of aneurism in this condition, in which amputation was performed on the supposition of its being a solid tumour (Fig. 451). Treatment.—The treatment of femoral and popliteal aneurism may be con- ducted either by compression or by ligature of the vessel leading to the sac. As a general rule, for the reasons already stated, compression should be employed in preference to ligature ; but cases do arise in which, from the failure of compression, or for other reasons, it becomes necessary to ligature the femoral artery. The Treatment by Compression is peculiarly applicable to these aneurisms, and mdeed it is for them that it has chiefly been employed. I need, therefore, say nothing special about them here, but would refer the reader to Chapter XLIII, page 134, for a description of the subject. Flexion of the knee, which may be considered a modification of com- pression, is applicable to these cases also, either alone or in combination with compression of the main trunk. It is pecuharly applicable in those cases in which the aneurism is situate entirely in the ham (see p. 145). Ligature of the Common Femoral.—In looking at the femoral artery It might at first be supposed that the common trunk, situated superficiallv between Poupart's ligament and the origin of the profunda, would be the most