SYNOVITIS: PATHOLOGY AND SYMPTOMS. 327 as a consequence of miliary tubercle of the synovial membrane. Somewhat sudden distension of the synovial membrane, often with swelling of the whole alfected limb, is one of the phenomena not uncommonly observed in Charcot's disease of joints (see Charcot's Disease). Acute synovitis is an occasional sequela of the acute specific fevers, especially typhoid ; the extreme distension of the joint may cause dislocation (see "Vol. I., p. 655). Lastly, synovitis is not unfrequently secondary to inflammation and other affections in the neighbourhood of a joint. Pathology.—As uncomplicated acute synovitis is never fatal, we seldom have an opportunity of studying its pathology. It would, however, appear from the examination of joints in cases of synovitis from injury, as well as from the experiments of Eichet, Bonnet, and others, who have induced trau- matic synovitis in animals, that there is in the first instance an inflammatory congestion of the synovial membrane, with loss of its pecuKar satiny polish. The synovia is then increased in quantity, and becomes thin and serous, and after a time intermixed with inflammatory exudation which is poured out with it. If the disease progress favourably, these products are completely absorbed. In more rare cases, the congestion and swelling of the synovial membrane increase, until at last it becomes so turgid and distended with blood and effused fluids, that a kind of chemosis results ; a thin purulent-looking fluid is poured out, composed of granular corpuscles—partly migrated leucocytes, and partly desquamated and degenerated endothelial cells—floating in a serous liquid. In all cases of acute synovitis the fringes of the membrane become swollen, and their vessels injected with blood, so that they form prominent red elevations, especially at the margins of the cartilages. The inflammation in such cases frequently extends to the other structures forming the joint, and the disease then foi-ms one variety of acute arthritis. In other cases, granula- tions are thrown out on the looser portions of the membrane, and becoming injected with blood-vessels, constitute fringed and villous membranous expan- sions, lying upon the subjacent cartilage. Symptoms of Acute Synovitis.—The symptoms of synovitis consist of pain and heat and distension of the joint, with fluctuation. If it be large and exposed, the pain is sometimes severe, especially at night, being greatly increased by moving or pressing upon the articulation ; it is usually sharp, but when the disease occurs in rheumatic or gouty constitutions, it is of a gnawing character. On laying the hand on the joint, it will be felt to be hot The swelling of the affected joint is considerable, and evidently depends on accumulation of fluid within the synovial sac, the extreme outline of which is rendered apparent by the tension to which it is subjected. Thus in the knee it rises up high in the thigh under the vasti, to the extent of three or four inches above the upper border of the patella, the swelling being higher on the inner than on the outer side of the limb, whilst in the elbow it rises in the same manner under the tendon of the triceps. There is no effusion into the surround- ing tissues ; and hence the outline of the joint can be distinctly felt, and fluctuation perceived in it. The limb is usually semiflexed, for in this position there is the greatest general relaxation of the ligaments, and it consequently gives the patient most ease. The joint cannot be moved without pain. The constitutional febrile disturbance is tolerably severe, especially if the affection occur in a rheumatic constitution.