132 ANEURISM. then be treated like an ordinary abscess, with a view to its fiilinfj up bv U-rannlation ; which, however, will necessarily be a slow process, in consj- qiience of the size of the cavity. During the whole of this time a tourniquoi should be kept loosely a]:)plied upon the artery above the sac, so as to be tightened at any moment if bleeding take place/ If hemorrhage have already supervened, the case is attended with immediate danger. In such a case as this, the first indication is clearly to arrest the flow of blood, so as to save th<: patient from immediate death. This can best be accomplished by turniuL^ out the coagula and plugging the sac with lint or compressed sponge, retainwl in situhjh firm graduated compress and well applied roller. The haemorrhage; having thus been arrested for a time, the Surgeon should consider wliat steps should be adopted permanently to restrain it. In some cases, indeed, thougli these are exceptional, the plug and compress may be sufficient to prevent a recurrence of the bleeding ; but in general it will not do to trust to these means, unless the anatomical relations of the part be such as to preclude more active measures. Various plans are open to the Surgeon for the permanent suppression of the bleeding. The sac may be laid open, and an attempt made to ligature that ])ortion of the artery from which the blood issues. But this can scarcely be expected to succeed, as, in the majority of the cases, the coats of the vessel being softened, there would be little prospect of its holding a ligature, even if it were possible to expose it before the patient died of hasmorrhage. Indeed, though this plan has several times been tried, I am not aware that by it the Surgeon has ever succeeded in arresting the bleeding from a suppurating aneurismal sac. The application of the actual cautery to the bleeding orifice would, I think, hold out a better chance, more pai-ticularly if the blood were poured out from a collateral vessel of small size. In this way, Morrison, of Monte Video, suc- ceeded in arresting the bleeding of an aneurism in the groin that had suppur- ated. Should this means, however, not suffice (and it is the only means that can be applied in many situations, as in the groin and axilla), there is no course left but, in those situations in which it can be done, either to ligature the artery higher up or to amputate. The application of a ligature nearer the centre of the circulation, even though practicable, appears to me to be of very doubtful utility ; for the probability is, that the circulation through the limb, embarrassed as it must have been by the first ligature and by the subsequent distension and suppuration of the sac, will be so much interfered with when the artery is tied a second time, that gangrene will result; or else that the collateral circulation, if sufficiently active to maintain the vitality of the limb, will also keep up the hemorrhage. In these circumstances, the only coui-8^ left to the Surgeon is amputation of the limb when the aneurism is so situatedj that it can be removed in this way. j 4. Gangrene of the Limb.—The general subject of gangrene of a limbil, following injury and ligature of the main artery, has already been described, (Vol. I., p. 461) ; and we have at present to consider only those cases in which ic occurs after the operation for aneurism. Causes.—If the aneurism have very rapidly attained a large size, it may, by its pressure on the collateral vessels, or on the veins in its vicinity (Fig. 458), produce such an amount of disturbance in the circulation of t . limb, preventing the influx of arterial or obstructing the efilux of venous blood,