266 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. already been described (Vol. I., p. 1080). The tubercle often asHumes the infiltrating form, althouf>;h definite tubercle nodules may be present. The disease spreads by a process of rarefactive osteitis until a considerable caseouK mass occupies a cavity in which the bony trabeculge have been completely destroyed. The nature of the changes in the bone has been carefully studied by Watson Cheyne. Around the tuberculous focus the cancellous sjjaces are filled with vascular fibrous tissue, and the trabeculaa themselves are generally more or less thickened. As the disease spreads, the fibrous material is invaded by the tuberculous granulation tissue, and the sclerosed trabeculse are absorbed. In this way the surface of the bone is gradually reached, and infection of the superficial structures or the cavity of a joint occurs. Cheyne has also pointed Fig. oOG.—Tulierculous cavity in Head Fig. 507.—Chronic rarefactive osteitis of the of Tibia. Cancellous Tissue, with caseation of the inflanunatory products. out that a condition of rarefactive osteitis may be met with in parts of the bone at a considerable distance from the focus of disease. The following are the most important modifications which are met with in tuberculous disease of cancellous bone :— (a.) Caries ivith suppuration. In this condition, which is the commonest form, chronic suppuration results from the admixture of the caseous tubercle with the inflammatory exudation of the surrounding tissue. When the disease reaches the surface of the bone the periosteum is first raised by the pus and subsequently perforated, the chronic abscess then finding its way to the surface. {h.) Chronic abscess of hone. In this condition caseation and suppuration occur after the complete destruction of the osseous canceUi. Osteoplastic osteitis slowly proceeds in the surrounding bone until the pus is completely shut in by a dense layer which offers great obstruction to the spread of the suppuration. In this way a small collection of pus may remain permanently encysted in the centre of the bone, or eventually it may come to the surface through a fine track and discharge itself beneath the periosteum.