POLYMAZIA. CHAPTER LIX. DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 1 Diseases of the Breast may occur in either sex, but they are necessarily more frequent as well as more important in the highly developed and active organ in the female than in the rudimentary gland of the male. Diseases of the female breast are of much interest to the Surgeon ; not only on account of their great variety, but from the difficulties attending their diagnosis, and from the importance attaching to the question of operative interference in connexion with them. Diseases of the breast seldom occur before puberty, being most frequent either during lactation, when the functions of the gland are in a high degree of development ; or towards the termination of menstrual life, when the organ is necessarily influenced by the changes that are taking place in the 'uterine system. But there is this important difference between the diseases at these different periods of life, viz., that in the young they are of a simple, in the older woman frequently, if not generally, of a malignant nature. Just before or at puberty, the breast occasionally becomes the seat of inflammation and abscess ; in all probability owing to changes taking place in it in con- nexion with the general development of the reproductive system. As the period of puberty approaches, the breasts often swell, become hard, knotty, and somewhat painful, indicative of some commencing change in the genera- tive system. In other cases again, a precocious hypertrophy may take place, frequently attended with severe neuralgia in the part. When puberty occurs, the breasts naturally enlarge, and often become tender ; and occasionally one undergoes a certain degree of hypertrophy, increasing greatly in bulk beyond the other. These various changes, though exciting alarm, cannot be regarded MS of any very serious importance. ANOMALIES OF DEVELOPMENT. Complete Absence of the Mamma or Amazia is very rare. Froriep records the case of a woman, aged thirty, in whom the right breast was com- pletely wanting. The third and fourth ribs were also absent from the scapula forwards. A few similar cases are also on record, but Birkett states that he could find only one authentic case of the absence of the breast without malforma- tion of the chest-walls. A rudimentary condition of the breast, in which it resembles that of the male, has been noted in a few cases of congenital absence of the ovaries. Supernumerary Breasts or Polymazia.—This condition is far more frequent than absence of the gland. Klebs divides the abnormality into three forms, according as the supernumerary glands are situated in the pectoral region, in the axilla, or in other parts of the body. In the pectoral region as many as five breasts, each with a nipple, have been observed. When the