936 OPERATIOm ON THE ABDOMINAL VISCERA. The operation is practicable only in cases in which the pylorus han n.. formed such adhesions to the surrounding parts as to prevent i s bei, J 1 ' con.pletely Ironi the wound. Before the ^.peration ZXnl^Z\' Z hned to liquid food lor some days. Immediately before commencing h." stomach must be thoroughly cleaned with tepid water by me^, of i' stomach-pump The incision through the abdominal wall musfb r" v 1^ nearly so in .l.rect.on placed over the tumour, and free enough to e the parts thoroughly. In liillroth's cases the external wound wat four inches in length, crossing the middle line above the umbilicus tL great and small omentum must be carefully separated from the parts to removed, al bleeding vessels being tied as divided. The pyloric part o tli stomach is then drawn from the wound and laid on a carboiized cloth or a flat sponge, the subsequent steps of the operation being conducted outside the abdomen. The stomach and duodenum are then cut through with scissors Atter each stroke of the scissors, any bleeding point is secured. Before dividing the duodenum, a few threads must be passed through its serous and muscular coats, lest it slip back into the cavity of the abdomen. The stomach IS then fitted to the duodenum, by the removal of a V'sbaped piece of its walls, either in the greater and lesser curvature, or at one side only Finally the duodenum and the stomach are united by sutures inserted as already described, the stomach returned to the abdomen, and the wound closed The operation takes from one to two houi-s, and fifty to sixty sutures may be required. Success depends upon attention to antiseptic details, and prevention of the escape of any of the intestinal contents into the abdomen. In some eases the divided stomach and duodenum have been closed separately with sutures and gastro-enterostomy performed in the manner described below.' In the after-treatment no food is allowed by the mouth for two or three days, the patient being supported by nutritive enemata. Billroth allowed his patient sour milk on the third day. Up to 1886 Billroth and his assistants, Wolfler and von Winiwarter, had excised the pylorus for cancer in 14 cases, with 8 deaths and 6 recoveries. Of the six who recovered, one was alive four years after, but in a dying state from cancer of the glands of the groin ; a recurrent growth was cut out of the scar in the abdominal wall two years after the operation. Another patient remained well after two years. The rest died of recurrence under one year. Of three patients operated on for simple stricture, two died. These results are, however, quite exceptional. Kramer has collected the results of 72 cases operated on for cancer ; of these 55 died directly from the operation. Of 10 cases operated on for cicatricial stricture, 4 recovered and G died. These results are not encouraging, and probably do not represent the real mortality. The chance of recovery from the operation is small, and recurrence is almost certain if the patient survives. It is doubtful, therefore, whether pylorectoniy will retain a place amongst legitimate surgical operations. Gastro-Enterostomy.—This operation was first performed by Wiilfler in 1881, in a case in which pylorectoniy was impossible on account of implica- tion of neighbouring parts by the cancer. He therefore drew up a portion of the upper part of the small intestine, and applying it to the great curvature of the stomach, established a fistulous communication between them. In this country the operation has been successfully performed by A. E. Barker, H. Page, Jessett, Mayo Robson and others. Of 85 cases collected by Murphy