ACUTE INTERSTITIAL NEPHRITIS. 997 iatercelhilar substance becomes fluid, the cells float free, and pus is thus formed. The red areola is not found to be due to extravasation, although htemorrhages may exist scattered through such a kidney. The yellow streaks in the pyramids are found to be due to a similar condition of intertubular cell-infiltration. Sometimes clots may be seen iu the vessels of the pyramids. These are probably secondary to the inflammation of the parts surrounding the vessels. As in the former variety, small round cells may be found in the tubules as well as outside them. The epithelium is usually much swollen, and sometimes desquamating and choking the tubules (Fig. 832), but this is only in those areas in which the interstitial inflammation is most advanced. In others it may appear almost healthy. In the pyramidal portion of the kidney many of the large tubes are found to have lost their epithelium by desquama- tion. This form of kidney merges into the difi'use variety, the solid yellowish spots before mentioned representing points which, had the patient lived longer, might have softened into abscesses. Klebs, many years ago, described the presence of microscopic organisms in the suppurating kidney, but the means of observation were at that time so imperfect that considerable doubt existed as to the correctness of the statement, more especially as he described a micrococcus subsequently developing a branching mycelium—a form of growth, the existence of which was, to say the least, improbable. liater obser- vations by Koch, with improved methods of staining, have clearly demonstrated the fact that, in every case of disseminated suppuration of the kidney, colonies of micrococci similar to those found in putrid urine are scattered throughout the gland, distending and obstructing the urinary tubules. The abscesses of the kidney thus arising in acute suppurative nephritis must not be confounded with those seen in pyaemia. These are usually larger, and more distinctly wedge-shaped, and are sometimes surrounded by a zone of htemorrhage. They are always in the cortex, and the pyramids show no signs of disease. Pyelitis is absent, but, as before stated, it may be wanting, or feebly marked in cases of geimine interstitial nephritis, secondary to affections of the bladder. Koch ha.s, moreover, pointed out an important microscopic distinction. Micrococci are found in the pysemic kidney as well as in the pyelo-nephritic kidney ; but in