1074 URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. dead body, it will be found that the back of the bistoury comes very close fcn h finger m the rectum ; and if another finger be placed'in the woun the^ 1 come mto very close apposition just anterior to the prostate. In theS nnfnf^fr'''^.''^ ^^^T ^^'^'^^^ ^^^^^^^ '^^^n shown to be one of the most serious accidents in lateral lithotomy, on account of the infii tiation of urme and diffuse inflammation which are likely to follow cann t occur m he median operation if the knife be not used after the uz;thra ^"^^^^ ^ith the finger. Altliough the so- called dilatation of the prostate with the finger is undoubtedly in real ty a ration, this does not extend into or through the capsule, and thus the lateral true ligament of the bladder cannot be wounded as occasionally happens m incising the prostate with the knife in the lateral operation 6 Difficulty in Extraction of the Stone.-The weak point in the median operation consists in the limited space allowed for the introduction of the forceps and the extraction of a large stone. The incision is made, and all the manipulation is practised, towards the apex of the narrow triangle formed by the rami of the pubic bones. The base of this triangle is represented by a horizontal hne corresponding to the level of the membranous portion of the urethra, and consequently does not occupy the widest part of the perineum • it is formed by the lower portion of the triangular ligament, the space behind It being filled up by the rectum and its muscles, and the ischio-rectal fat. The hgament forms a barrier stretching across the perineum, which cannot be depressed, and requires to be divided laterally into the ischio-rectal fossa before a stone of any considerable size can be removed. It was in conse- quence of the extensive bruising and laceration of these structures, and the difficulty experienced in bringing the stone through them, that the old Marian operation fell into disuse. The second obstacle to the extraction of the stone lies in the prostate ; but. as this is easily overcome by dilatation, it cannot be considered a serious one. The third and most important obstacle is situated at the neck of the bladder, and is dependent upon the narrow tense ring beyond the prostate which remains intact in spite of the dilatation and laceration to which the prostate has been subjected. I have found, by experiments on the dead body, that this inner ring of the neck of the bladder cannot be expanded to a si2Xj more than sufficient for the extraction of a calculus of one inch in diameter without laceration or incision : and its laceration or rupture is well known to be one of the most dangerous and fatal accidents in lithotomy. A calculus over one and a half inches in diameter cannot be extracted by the median operation without the employment of great violence. But, though much force is usually required in order to extract a calculus of even moderate size through this tense ring at the neck of the bladder, it is an undeniable fact that serious consequences seldom follow the violence so used, and that a degree of force, which would be fatal in lateral lithotomy, may be employed without danger in the extraction of a calculus by the median operation. In this respect the extraction of a calculus by the median operation resembles the removal of one through the dilated urethra of the female ; the great point in favour of the median over the lateral procedure, and the cause of its comparative safety, being that the lateral true ligament of the bladder is not incised, nor otherwise