DISEASES OF THE liLADDER. between them, so as to cause the interior of the bladder to resemble somewhat the inside of one of the cavities of the heart, with its projecting columnae caruejB. The hypertrophy is usually dependent on the same cause that hag given rise to the chronic inflammation, but in some cases cystitis alone may cause the hypertrophy. It would, then, seem to be due to the obstruc- tion caused by the thick ropy mucus, which requires greater force for its expulsion than healthy urine, and it is consequently only an indirect effecjt of the inflammation. Sacculi are commonly found projecting at the posterior and lateral parts. These are of two kinds, both of which are formed by pro- jections between the fasciculi of the wall of the bladder. In the first and less common kind, the muscular as well as the mucous coat is pushed out- wards ; in the second form, the mucous coat alone forms a kind of hernial protrusion (Fig. 900). In the sacculi thus formed accumulations of various kinds may take place ; mucus, pus, phosphatic deposits, and even calculous concretions, not unfrequently being met with. The urine, mixed with mucus and pus, retained in these pouches, readily undergoes decomposition, and the difficulty in cleaning such a sacculated bladder by injections is great. Sometimes ulceration of a sacculus takes place as a consequence of the irritation of the fetid accumulation, and per- foration may occur, followed by peritonitis and death. Ulcerations of the mucous membrane and abscesses p, „„„ „ , ■ ^, submucous tissue are occasionally met with in Pig. 900.—Sacculus III the ii in i • i i ,o i a i • . . , wau of the Bladder. Dladaers which havc sulfered from chronic cystitis, but they are usually the result of the exacerbation that often sets in before death. The effect of chronic cystitis in causing disease of the kidney has already been described (p. 992). The Symptoms of chronic cystitis closely resemble those of the acute form, differing only in degree. The bladder is unable to bear more than a slight degree of distension without pain, consequently there is a frequent desire to pass water, and the urgency is such that the slightest delay gives rise to considerable suffering. This pain before micturition is always one of the most prominent symptoms. The fluid is generally ejected forcibly or even spasmodically, and in small quantities at a time. Its passage may be attended with some pain, but seldom enough to be termed strangury. If the cystitis is not complicated by stone there is distinct relief after micturition. The urine is turbid, and always contains an excess of mucus. In slight cases this is small in amount, but more commonly it becomes abundant and viscid, requiring some force and straining for its expulsion, forming the condition known as Catarrh of the Bladder. The urine then, unless special means are taken to prevent it, becomes ammoniacal and fetid, and is often mixed with much pus. The urine, on standing, separates into two parts, the upper being clear, but the lower consisting of a thick, viscid, slimy, or gummy mucus, often semi- opaque and purulent in appearance ; it sticks tenaciously to the bottom of the vessel, and when poured out hangs from the edge in long stringy masses. It often contains triple phosphate crystals in large numbers. The alkaline con- dition of the urine in vesical catarrh is due to the formation of ammonium carbonate from decomposition of the urea. The cause of this change is a question of great importance, as the irritation of the ammoniacal urine in the bladder is one of the most important causes of the persistence of vesical