PBIMARY TUBERCLE OF SYNOVIAL MEMBRANE. 345 joint loses the form of the distended synovial membrane which characterized the earlier stages, and becomes rounded or oval. Simultaneously with the affection of the ligaments, the growth of the granulation tissue within the joint continues until the synovial membrane is replaced by a soft pulpy mass of granulation tissue from half an inch to nearly an inch in thickness. The growth gradually spreads over the cartilage, covering it like a veil. If an attempt be made to remove this it will be found that the advancing edge can be raised with the handle of the scalpel for about one-eighth of an inch, beyond which it will be adherent to the cartilage. The advance of the granu- lation tissue over the cartilage is compared by Billroth to ivy creeping over a wall, and becoming gradually attached by its roots. If the granulation tissue be scraped away, it wih be seen that it is growing into and pitiang the surface of the cartilage, which is thus at last completely perforated. In this way the granulation tissue reaches its deep surface, and extending beneath it may lead to loosening and complete detachment of considerable portions. After the perforation of the cartilage the subjacent bone becomes affected. Here the process assumes the form of rarefying osteitis with exuberant growth of granulation tissue (Superficial Fungating Caries, p. 267) ; the destructive process may extend to a varying depth into the cancellous tissue of the arti- cular end of the bone. The periosteum usually shares in the disease, the inflammation assuming the osteoplastic form, and leading to the deposit of irregular masses of bone on the articular ends, chiefly in the immediate neigh- bourhood of the joint. At this stage no articular cavity remains ; the joint is represented merely by the articular ends of the bone more or less extensively denuded of cartilage, embedded in a soft pulpy mass of granulation tissue, sur- rounded by the infiltrated and softened ligaments. When the granulation tissue reaches the thickness of from a quarter to half an inch, caseation occurs, and it is from the appearance of the mass of tuberculous granulation tissue that the disease received its name of " pulpy degeneration of the synovial membrane." The soft pulpy tissue is piuk in colour, marked by yellowish patches of fatty degeneration and brown areas from old hsemorrhages. The fatty degeneration is followed sooner or later by softening, and thus a chronic abscess with flocculent curdy contents is formed. This frequently occurs in one or more local centres, without implicating the whole mass of granulation tissue. Thus, in the knee, it frequently occurs in the synovial pouches above the joint. Although the above description indicates the usual series of changes result- ing from tuberculous disease of the synovial membrane, several modifications are recognizable which are of considerable practical interest. Watson Cheyne recognizes four distinct forms of tuberculous disease of synovial membrane. First, that resulting in difPuse thickening of the membrane. This is the form above described, and is by far the most common. Secondly, limited thickening of the synovial membrane. This is an uncommon form described by Konig and Riedel, and has been met with chiefly in the knee-joint. Distinct nodular or polypoid growths may form in the synovial membrane. These outgrowtlis consist of vascular connective tissue and granulation tissue and may be associated with considerable effusion into the joint. Thirdly, acute miliary tuberculosis of the synovial membrane. This form, which has been described by Konig, is occasionally met with in general tuberculosis, and is not necessarily associated with any clinical evidence of joint-disease. Fourthly,