RICKETS: CAUSES. 301 is compressed, usually curved inwards, its shaft is flattened laterally, and its niarcrins are narrow and spinous ; while, in the elongated tibia, the curve is usually directed forwards, the margins are broad and round, the surfaces are \ convex, and the compression or flattening, if there be any, is from before I backwards." . , . , Atrophy of Bone—This term comprises two conditions : one in wliicn the bone is wasted, and another in which an arrest of growth occurs. Atrophy occurs, as a natural result, in old age; the change that takes place in the lower jaw being a familiar example. In other cases it is said to happen as a consequence of fracture ; the nutrient artery of the bone having been torn across, and one of the fragments consequently receiving insufiicient vascular supply. Atrophy of bone commonly occurs also from disuse, as is the case in old dislocations. In atrophy, the bone becomes thinner, hghter, and more porous than natural; the compact structure dis- appearing until a mere paper-hke layer may be left, and the cancellous becoming expanded, the spaces being filled with soft yellow fat. Atrophy of bones is^'common in general paralysis of the insane. It is often especially marked in the ribs, and is a common cause of fractures, occurring either spontaneously or during the restraint necessarily employed during a maniacal outbreak. Arrested Growth of bones is an occasional consequence of disease. Its occurrence in rickets will presently be referred to. It may be a result of disease of the epiphyses and joints, or of the resection of the epiphyses in children, and may follow the formation of cicatrices after burns in the neigh- bourhood of joints. The effect of paralysis on the growth of bone varies according to the extent of the loss of nerve-power. It is common to see normal growth of the bones in limbs affected with infantile paralysis, in which the muscles are wasted ; while in other cases it is materially impaired. RICKETS. Rickets is a general disease, the most important manifestation of which is an imperfect development of the new tissue of growing bones. It occurs only in early childhood, most frequently appearing during the first or second year of life, though it has been observed as late as the ninth year; and is said occasionally to be congenital. Causes.—Want of sufficient food and of fresh air, want of cleanliness and light, and all the unhealthy surroundings of the overcrowded poor of a large city, are the great causes of rickets. It is rarely met with amongst the wealthy classes, and in the country it is scarcely seen, even among the poor. Improper food is undoubtedly the essential cause of the disease. There is but one proper food for a child during the first nine months of its life, and that is the milk of a healthy woman. The ill-fed mothers amongst the working classes, exhausted as they often are by repeated child-bearing and unnaturally prolonged lactation, are very frequently unable to supply milk of a suffi- ciently nutritive quality, and thus, even when suckled, the child is but half- fed. Should it be brought up by hand, in order to save expense, flour, or various useless patent preparations of starch, are largely used in place of cow's milk.