EXCISION OF WRIST: AFTER-TREATMENT. 399 the hook of the uuciforin bone must be clipped off with the bone-forceps, and cai-e must be taken not to cut below the bases of the metacarpal bones, for fear of wounding the deep palmar arch. The tendons must be relaxed during this part of the operation by flexing the wrist. The bone-forceps may now be introduced, first between the carpus and radius, and then between the carpus and metacarpus ; by this means the whole of the carpal bones (except the trapezium and the pisiform bone) are separated from their connexions, and may be extracted in one mass with a large pair of sequestrum-forceps, any bands which retain them being touched with the knife. The ends of the radius and ulna may now easily be protruded from the ulnar wound. If on examination they be found only slightly diseased, the ulna may be sawn obliquely so as to remove only its articular surface and to leave almost the whole of the styloid process. A thin slice may be taken off the end of the radius, so as to remove only the cartilaginous surface ; and its articular surface for the ulna may be cut away longitudinally with the bone- forceps or a chisel. By leaving the ulna as long as possible and by saving the styloid process, the tendency to displacement of the hand to the ulnar side is somewhat counteracted. If the bones be extensively diseased, the gouge and bone-pliers must be used freely, The next step is expose the bases of the metacarpal bones, and to treat them in the same way as the radius and ulna, saving as much bone as possible, but removing all cartilaginous surfaces with a narrow-bladed saw. The second and third are most easily protruded from the radial, and the fourth and fifth from the ulnar, wound. The trapezium may then be dissected out, being held in a strong pair of forceps. In doing this care must be taken, first, not to wound the radial artery, which is in close relation with its outer side; and, secondly, not to cut the tendon of the flexor ,caipi radialis, which lies in its groove. When the trapezium is removed, the base of the metacarpal bone of the thumb may be pushed up and cut off with the bone-forceps or a small saw. It is better to remove it, as it may suffer from recurrence of the disease, and by its removal the thumb is reduced in length to the same extent as the fingers. Lastly, the pisiform bone may be examined, and either removed entirely, or its cartilaginous surface cut off, as the case requires. During the operation, the only tendons necessarily divided are the extensors of the wrist. The flexor carpi radialis may escape, from its attach- ment being situated low on the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones, and the flexor ulnaris is left attached to the pisiform bone. AU the extensors of the thumb should be uninjured. All the tendons necessarily divided must be cut as long as possible, so that they may form new attachments in the most advantageous positions ; and, in raising the flexor and extensor tendons, they must be disturbed as little as possible. After-treatment.—The radial wound may be closely united with sutures. The ulnar wound may be closed at each end, but the middle of the wound is to be kept open by means of an india-rubber drainage-tube to allow free exit of discharge. The hand is to be placed on a splint. The most convenienD is a simple wooden splint, " with an obtuse-angled piece of thick cork " stuck on it so as to maintain the hand in a state of semi-flexion, with the wrist shghtly extended (Fig. 5G0). The thumb is supported by a bar of cork stuck on the under surface so as to project at the side (Fig. 561). The two great objects in after-treatment are to get the fingers perfectly movable and the wrist firm. For these purposes passive motion must be commenced as early as the second