DISEASES OF THE KIDNEY. both kidneys are implicated, though the disease is always more advanced in one than m the other ; and, secondly, that if it is at all advanced, L n o b ^ condition extends a greater or less distance down the ureter Tlic Symptoms may, in the early stage, be referred chiefly to the bladder • there may be great irritation and an almost constant desire to pass water wi h scalding pain during the act. There is at the same time pfin in u 'lorn usually dull and aching, and not radiating to the testicle or groin. It may7; increased by movement, especially of the neighbouring muscles. When both kidneys are seriously affected, constant vomiting may form a marked feature ot the case. The urine contains pus, often in considerable amount and inter- mittent, and the bacillus tuberculosis has been recognized in it and the ' .liagnosis tlius established. Blood may occur, but is seldom abundant and ' often completely wanting. If both kidneys are affected, the quantity of irine gradually diminishes, and the amount of solids excreted becomes less As the disease advances, the enlarged kidney becomes clearly perceptible pre- \ senting the ordinary signs of a renal tumour. A chronic abscess gradually ' forms m the lorn in many cases ; general tuberculous infection takes place i aud the patient dies of exhaustion. ' ■ The Diagnosis is often extremely difficult. It has already been mentioned ' that the irritability of the bladder may be so great as to be suggestive of A-esical disease. The distinction between calculous and tuberculous disease may be attended with insuperable difficulties. The following points may serve to effect the diagnosis :—1. Hematuria is often absent in tuberculous disease and when present is uninfluenced by rest and exercise. 2. Pus is present early, is often abundant, and more constant in amount than when due to calculous pyelitis. 3. Caseous matter may be present in the urine, and may contain the bacillus tuberculosis. 4 The frequency of micturition is, as a rule, more marked than in stone, and not reheved by rest. 5. The pa'in in ( tubercle is generally more persistent and localized than in stone, and less ^ influenced by movement. 6. Evidence of tubercle may be present elsewhere, especially in the testes, prostate, or vesicul^ seminales. 7. jSTocturnai eleva- tion of temperature is suggestive of tubercle ; and 8. Progressive emaciation niiiy occur, but not uncommonly the general condition of a patient with primary tuberculous disease of the kidney is good. In the later stages the diagnosis of tuberculous pyonephrosis from calculous pyonephrosis may be attended with equal diflficulty. The Treatment is a matter of considerable doubt. When abscess forms, early nephrotomy and drainage give great relief, and certainly prolong life; but should nephrectomy ever be performed for this disease ? In the early stages, before the kidney is much enlarged, the diagnosis is so uncertain, even after examination by an exploratory incision, that it could scarcely ever be justifiable to remove the organ. On the other hand, Knowsley Thornton believes that in the early stages of primary renal tuberculosis incision and drainage may be followed by a cure. In the later stages, if both kidneys are alTected, as happens in about 35 per cent, of all cases, nephrectomy vyould evidently be useless and probably fatal. The difficulty of ascertaining the condition of the opposite kidney is so great that, as a general rule, it seems inadvisable to interfere with these cases except by nephrotomy. At least it may be said that the cases in which excision of a tuberculous kidney is justifiable are comparatively few in number. (See Nephrectomy, p. 1021.) t \