io8 I'onr evidence of ANEURISM. having , , ^ been formed when the cavitv was smaller and siihsequently flattened out against the enlarged wails of'the sac (Fi^r. 448^ i lie deposit of laminated fibrin exerts a powerful influence in preventln^r the too rapid increase of the tumour. Another great purpose it serves is to fessen the capacity of the sac, and thus to diminish the pressure on surrounding parts, the distending force of the aneurism being proportional to the area of the sac as well as to the force with which the blood is driven into it. In those cases in which the laminated fibrin is small in quantity or altogether deficient, the aneurismal tumour rapidly increases with a forcible pulsation that is not met with in other circumstances. The dark coagulum, or passive clot of Broca, is a less efficient support to the Avail of an aneurism than the colourless or active clot. It is much softer, and at first contains a large amount of serum ; this gradually squeezes out as the clot contracts, which thus becomes considerably diminished in bulk. If the clot completely fills the sac this contraction may possibly be followed by the re-establishment of a cavity, but the experience of some of the modern modes of treatment shows that this is not very likely to occur, the contraction of the clot being accompanied by a corresponding dimi- nution in the size of the sac, chiefly due to the pressure of the surrounding structures. The clot further dim- inishes from the disintegration of the rjd corpuscles which form the chief part of its bulk. As this takes place it becomes decolorized, and thus, if the sac is only partly filled by a dark clot, this becomes flattened out and finally forms a layer indistinguishable from the laminfB of colourless fibrin. Pressure-Effects.—As an aneurism enlarges, it exerts injurious and often fatal effects by its pressure upon contiguous parts. These pressure-effects deserve attentive study, as they constitute an important element in the diagnosis of aneurism. The pressure on the surrounding parts increases with the size of the sac. Dr. Stone thus describes the influence of increase in size on pressure : " The hydrostatic force rises rapidly as the sac enlarges ; in fact, in a modified geometrical ratio as against a simple arithmetical increase of the heart's action. We are thus from the first losing ground, and the malady is gaining on us according to some simple function of the fundamental law of equality of pressure in all directions." Supposing the aneurism to have a diameter of 3 inches, its internal surface will be 28*20 square inches, which, if the blood-pressure be reckoned at 3 lbs. to the square inch, gives a total pressure in the sac of 84'81 lbs. If the sac enlarges until its diameter reaches 4 inches, the internal surface will be 50'26 square inches and the pressure 150-78 lbs. An aortic aneurism presenting on the surface as a tumour 3 inches in diameter would lift a quarter of a hundredweight. One of the most common effects of aneurism is oedema of the limb or part. rig. 44S.—Large Aneurism of A.sceiuliiig Aorta, projecting against (and protruding outwards) the ribs. Layers of Laminated Fibrin arranged in the direction of tlie Current of tlie Blood.