'"oS DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. DoL^whf*'''- ^^^y' ^« stated (p. 1138), occasionally point in the perineum. v It will be seen that there are two distinct classes of perinaeal abscesses, those that communicate with the urethra, and those that do not The %r^:, usually end in urinary fistula. ' The Characters of a Perineal Abscess are those of a hard, rounded elongated or oviform mass, situated in front of the anus, extending alonj; the urethra or perhaps occupying to some extent one side of the perineum \ luctuation is not to be felt so long as the pus is bound down by the superficial tascia ; when it bursts beyond its limits, then that sign may be met witl, ±Sut so long as it is under the fascia the abscess will be found to be surroundc-.i by so dense a mass of indurated tissue, and so tightly bound down thut fluctuation, or even elasticity, is not appreciable by the most practised finger Treatment.—The use of local sedatives, fomentations, and poultices is of no avail m these cases. When once pus has formed in this situation it miM be freely evacuated. No good can possibly come of delay, and every possible harm may result from the infiltration of pus among the important tissues of this region. The Surgeon must not wait for fluctuation, but when once the bard mass has fully formed must make a free incision info it. For this purpose he must keep in the mesial line, or as close to it as possible ; for in all periuEeal incisions " medio tuiissimus " must be his motto. Urinary Pistulae commonly form in the perinseum and scrotum, as the result of abscess in these regions communicating with the urethra ; occa- sionally, however, they are met with in other situations, as in the groin, the anterior abdominal wall, or the inside of the thigh. They usually communi- cate with the membranous portion of the urethra, but occasionally occur anterior to this. In number they vary considerably ; when occurring in the scrotal and penile portions of the urethra, they are usually single ; but when in the perineum, they are often rather numerous, several apertures being occasionally met with about the perinseum, scrotum, and nates. In one case Civiale found as many as fifty-two. Their size also differs considerably ; some admitting only the finest probe, while others are large cloacae. In a case under my care, the patient had a tunnel of this kind in the groin that would readily admit three fingers. They are usually tortuous, elongated, and narrow ; sometimes constricted externally and more widely dilated behind. The surrounding parts are greatly condensed ; the whole of the scrotum and penis is enormously enlarged, indurated, and almost cartilaginous in structure. The urine may escape almost entirely through the fistulse, scarcely any being discharged through the urethral orifice ; or there may be but a slight exuda- tion from the fistulous openings. The Treatment of Urinary Fistula varies according as it is complicated with stricture, and as it is situated in the anterior or the posterior part of the canal. If there be a stricture, this, as the cause of the fistula, must be treated either by dilatation or by the perinseal section. If the stricture be not very tight and hard, dilatation commonly succeeds ; the instrument being intro- duced every second or third day, until the urethra is dilated to its normal size, when the fistulous tracks will in most cases close. In some instances, however, the frequent introduction and withdrawal of the catheter is w source of irritation, and then it had better be left in. When this practice is