442 DISEASE OF THE JJIP-JOINT. bone with its convexity upwards, and then rounding off the upper end of the femur (Fig. 579). As a matter of fact, however, bony union usually occurs after osteotomy, and the result is good if the femur can be brought down into a satisfactory position. The division above the small trochanter has therefore no special advantage, and choice must usually be made between division of the neck of the femur as recommended by William Adams, and division of the shaft below the small trochanter as advised by Gant. The former method is available only when ankylosis has occurred without extensive destruction of' the head of the bone. It is done as follows :— A tenotome, having been introduced a little above the top of the great trochanter, is carried straight down to the neck of the femur, dividing the muscles and opening the capsule freely. The knife being withdi-awn, an Adams's saw (Fig. 574) is passed down to the bone, which is cut through from before backwards (Fig. 580). The section of the bone takes a few minutes, and is as much an act of filing as of sawing. The wound is then closed by a pad, and the limb brought straight. Before this could be done in Adams's first case, it was necessary to divide the long head of the rectus, the adductor longus, and the tensor vaginee femoris muscles. In performing this operation, as Adams justly observes, it is of great importance for the Surgeon to bear in mind the j altered direction of the shaft of the femur, which is \ usually adducted as well as flexed forwards, so that the division of the neck may be made at right angles to the axis of the bone and not obliquely, or in a direction more or less parallel to the shaft. After the operation in Adams's first case, an endeavour was made by passive motion to get a false joint ; but this being unsuccessful, the attempt was abandoned, and the limb allowed to ankylose in the straight position. Since this case, the operation has been repeated successfully by Adams and by many other 1 Surgeons, some of whom prefer to use an osteotome instead of a saw. In performing osteotomy of the femur below the small trochanter, a short incision is made on to the external surface of the bone which is then divided ' with a saw or osteotome. Cross- or Scissor-legged Deformity is occa- sionally met with as the result of ankylosis of both | hip-joints. The annexed drawing (Fig. 581), which Clement Lucas has allowed ( me to take from one of his cases illustrates admirably the peculiar position, j assumed by the lower extremities in this remarkable deformity. It will be noticed that neither limb is in the oi'dinary adducted position of hip : disease, both being fully rotated outwards. Its mode of origin is somewhat i obscure. The view to which Lucas inclines is probably the correct one, viz., ■ that the position is assumed, probably unconsciously on the part of the patient, j with the object of placing the limbs in the most favourable positions for pro- ; gi-ession. One leg is usually aflected first; after a time the other follows. Proo-ression is from the knees, not from the hips. The two limbs usually become - Fig. 681.—Cross-legged De- formity. Lucas's case.