TRACHEA-TUBES. 740 inner tube But if this be the longer of the two, the end of the outer tube m be tftctually cleared every time it is withdrawn, which -y be d^^^ ften as any mucus collects, without in the slightest degree disturb ng the Xt The two tubes are fixed by means of a button, attached to the edge ''"^Z^S^t been worn for any iength of time, it will almost Fig. V70.-Traclieotoiny-tube. The inner tube has -been removed from the outer. always be found that ulceration has taken place in the trachea at some point as the result of pressure. The discharge from this ulcerating surface, and the increased secretion caused by the accompanying irritation, add greatly to the difficulty experienced in keeping the tube from becoming blocked. R W Parker has pointed out that this ulceration is due to the fact that the ordinary quarter-circle tubes do not correspond with the natural direction of the trachea, and that consequently the end of the tube impinges on the anterior wall of the trachea. To overcome this difficulty Parker has devised an angular tube (Fig. 770) so shaped that the part which lies in the trachea accurately follows its direction. The tube is fitted with a movable collar, as suggested by Roger of Paris, which will be found more comfortable to the patient than a rigid shield. With the same object Morrant Baker has employed a tube made of india-rubber, such as is used in the manufac- ture of the india-rubber catheter (Fig. 771). It has sufficient rigidity to prevent its collapsing, but not suffi- cient to give rise to irritation or to cause ulceration. I is to be introduced after the first twenty-four hours, a silver tube being used till then. The tube is single, but the ease with which it can be removed and re-introduced is so great, that there is no difficulty in keeping it clean ; in fact, the irritation produced in so doing is said to be less than that caused by the removal of the inner tube of any ordinary double trachea-tube. Baker has found, from experience in a considerable number of cases, that it is worn with much greater comfort to the patient than a rigid tube. It has sometimes happened that in consequence of the tube becoming detached from the shield, it has slipped into the trachea. Cases of this kind have been related by Walters, and by J. W. Ogle. The removal of the. tubes was effected by jneans of forceps. Pig. 771.—Baker's Tracheotomy-tube.