FUSIFORM ANEURISM. embolus is composed. Such an irritating embolus is commonly derived from a diseased valve of the heart in the case of ulcerative endocarditis. The subject of embolic arteritis lias already been considered (see p. 86). Any obstacle to the free flow of blood through an organ or the capillaries of a part causes an elevation of the arterial tension, but this is not greater m the vessel leading to the part in which the obstruction is seated than in the arterial system generally. Thus it has been shown experimentally that if the femoral artery be tied the increased arterial tension resulting from the obstruction thus introduced into the circulation is the same in the artery immediately above the ligature and in the carotid. Chivers's theory that aneurisms of the abdominal arteries are frequently due to obstruction in the abdominal organs is probably devoid of foundation. The only Exciting or Direct Occasioning Causes of aneurism are blows, violent strains, and wounds of an artery. When an atheromatous artery is concussed by a blow, the lining membrane covering the softened patch may be ruptured, the debris being poured out into the interior of the vessel; and the external coat, with a portion of the middle adherent to it, having alone to bear the blood-pressure before it has been fully consolidated by chronic inflam- mation and the formation of new fibroid tissue, the foundation of an aneurism may readily be laid. In very forcible muscular eff'orts, it is easy to understand how an already weakened portion of the vessel may become dilated by the increased arterial tension ; occasionally even the vessel may be completely torn across by a violent strain. Wounds implicating arteries are common causes of those various forms of aneurism that have already been discussed in con- sidering Injuries of Arteries (Vol. I., p. 474). Classification.—Aneurisms may be classified as follows :— 1. FUSIFOEM. ^ ^ {a. True. 2. Sacculated.- j j,^^^^^ 3. Dissecting. ,1. Fusiform or Tubular Aneurism.—This is a dilatation of an artery, affecting the whole circumference of the vessel. . The fusiform aneurism is not a mere dilatation of the vessel, for there are elongation, thickening, and degeneration of its walls as well. The elongation of the artery in the fusiforin aneurism is as marked as its dilatation. Thus the arch of the aorta may be increased in length by some inches, with a considerable space between the origins of the innominate, the carotid, and the subclavian, at the same time that its walls are greatly thickened, nodulated, and rugged. Sometimes several fusiform aneurisms are met with in the same vessel, with healthy portions of the artery between them. From these dilatations, sacculated aneurisms not uncommonly spring. On examining the structure of a fusiform aneurism, it will be found that the thickness of the wall is maintained by growth from the inner and outer coats, the middle coat being stretched and atrophied in proportion to the size of the aneurism. The inner coat presents the changes already described as resulting from endarteritis : it is stiff, rugged, and tuberculated from the formation of atheromatous patches, and frequently calcareous plates are scattered over its surface. The outer coat is thickened and composed of densf^ fibroid tissue. Microscopic examination shows that the middle coat is thinned in proportion to the degree of dilatation. If the aneurism is of any consider-