SYMPTOMS OF INTRATHORACIC ANEURISM. i57 i Aneurisms situated within the concavity or springing from the posterior pait th aortic arch are those which, either directly by tlieir _pressure in he air-tubes or the pulmonary veins, or indirectly by the_ influence they exercise on the recurrent laryngeal nerve, are chiefly associated with e'^^S^'Dysphagia is a symptom of sufficiently frequent occurrence in aneurisms of the thoracic aorta. It seldom occurs, however, in the earlier stages of the [disease, or when the aneurism is small, and hence is of much less diagnostic value than dyspnoea. When, however, it is associated with that symptom, the combination becomes important; as the co-existence of the two conditions ; clearly points to the compression of the oesophagus and the air-tubes by a 1 tumour, which other diagnostic signs may prove to be an aneurism. It is of importance to bear in mind that in some aneurisms, especially ot the descending thoracic aorta, dysphagia may be one of the most marked si<^ns In such cases as these, stricture of the oesophagus has erroneously be°en supposed to exist, and the patient has even been treated by the intro- duction of bougies—an error of practice that has terminated fatally from perforation of the aneurismal sac, where it projected against the oesophagus. I The difficulty in deglutition in cases of compression of the oesophagus by I aortic aneurism, is almost invariably referred to the episternal notch. The dysphagia is commonly associated with pain, or with the sensation of a cord drawn tightly around the body. 4. (Edema, with more or less lividity of the upper extremities and head and j neck, occasionally though rarely occurs. It is generally most marked on the I left side, and arises from the compression of the superior cava or the innomi- nate veins by aneurisms springing from the fore or upper part of the arch. Pulsation and Tumour, observable externally, are always absent in the early stages of intrathoracic aortic aneurism, and very frequently continue so to the end ; indeed, in aneurisms springing from the intrapericardial aorta or the concavity of the arch, death usually takes place, either by rupture into one of the serous cavities or the air-tube, or, by the exhaustion induced by dyspnoea, long before the aneurism has attained a sufficient size to be recognizable externally. There are, however, three portions of the thoracic aorta which, when aifected by aneurism, yield external evidence by the existence of pulsation or tumour of the true nature of the disease. These are—1, the anterior aspect of the ascending aorta ; 2, the summit of the arch ; and 3, the posterior aspect of the descending aorta. 1. When the aneurism is situated on the anterior aspect of the ascending aorta and commencement of the arch, pulsation may be detected by pressure between the intercostal spaces on the right side of the sternum, and a thrill, as well as distinct impulse, may often be felt over that side of the chest, before any external tumour becomes visible ; thus simulating the beat of the heart, in addition and opposite to the seat of the true cardiac impulse. As the aneurism increases an external tumour appears, the wall of the chest becoming absorbed and perforated opposite the point of greatest impulse. 2. When an aneurism springs from the summit of the arch, a pulsating tumour appears at the root of the neck, behind or even above the margin of the sternum, most commonly towards the right side, and occasionally rises so high out of the thorax, and is so distinctly felt in the neck, as to run the risk of being confounded with aneurism of the innominate or carotid artery