PROSTATIC CALCULUS. ii53 I ..•inal or closed with a clip being attached to the cannula. The drainage is .ntinued until urine again finds its way along the urethra. It is doubttui uhether this method of tapping is as free from risk as that performed above the pubes. „ • Suprapubic Cystotomy has been performed in some cases of prostatic retention as a substitute for simple tapping. If the patient's condition is favourable it is probable that this is the best course to pursue in these rare .■;ises. Whatever method of drainage be adopted it is frequently necessary ^ continue it permanently, and the suprapubic opening allows the prostate . be felt, and possibly the obstructing portion dealt with at a subsequent .^ccasion. A small opening only is necessary in the bladder, and its edges may in some cases be drawn up to the skin wound with sutures. Haemorrhage occasionally causes trouble in cases of enlarged prostate, and III those rare instances in which there is retention and distension of the bladder with blood clot, suprapubic cystotomy is especially indicated. Atrophy of the Prostate sometimes occurs. It may be the result ot "xhausting disease, especially phthisis, of old age, of mechanical pressure from amours or calculi, or of local disease of the gland itself. Congenital deficiency 'if the prostate may also occur. PEOSTATIC CALCULTJS. Prostatic Calculus differs from all other urinary concretions in situation and composition, being formed in the ducts of the prostate gland, and com- osed principally of phosphate of lime and some animal matter ; usually about 85 per cent, of the phosphate, to 15 of the organic ingredients. The con- cretion is said to consist sometimes of carbonate of lime (p. 1030). It generally' occurs in old people, though it may sometimes be met with in young subjects. From a lad of nineteen, whom I cut for vesical calculus, I extracted two prostatic concretions. Characters.—Prostatic calculus is usually of a grey or ashy colour some- what triangular in outhne, smooth and polished (Fig. 907), having facets, being very hard, and seldom much larger than a cherry or plumstone ; though it may occasionally attain a considerable bulk, having been met with as large as a hen's egg, and then presenting a branched or irregular appearance. Though usually but one or two exist, which are sometimes caicuuir^''*" deposited in a kind of cyst in the gland, as many as thirty or forty have been met with, the ducts being filled, and its whole tissue being studded with them. Symptoms.—Calculus in the prostate gives rise to a sense of weight, pain, and irritation in the perinaeum, sometimes to retention of urine, and, in fact, to the ordinary symptoms of enlarged and irritated prostate ; it often occasions a tolerably free discharge of mucus in the urine. On introducing a sound, this passes over the stone, sometimes rubbing or striking it with a distinct grate or click before its beak enters the bladder. This is increased by the finger in the rectum pushing the organ up, and thus bringing the stone into more direct ^contact with the sound. In some instances the calculus is deeply imbedded in the prostate, and cannot be touched by the sound. In these cases the stone may usually be felt through the rectum. If there be many VOL. II. 4 E