SYPHILITIC LARYNGITIS. 7^9 camel's-hair brush, will be found useful. In many eases the best results follow r nhltion of solutions of tannin or salphate of zinc m a pulverized form fppl^d by means of the ordinary spray-producer. Mackenzie recommended insiifflations of pale powdered catechu with bismuth and a little morphia Hud when this does not make much impression, insufflation of eucalyptus (red ..•n.iO powder. Stimulating inhalations are also very largely emp oyed ; ot these the most useful are the officinal vapor olei pini sylvestris and creasote iu the strength of 80 drops to half a pint of boiling water. , ^ . ^ . _ In the more obstinate cases, especially where there is much thickening ot the mucous membrane, astringent solutions should be directly applied to ^r-^arr-- i— «,^-^~^~J the laiynx by means of a laryngeal f brush (Fig. 757). The solutions most I extensively employed are nitrate of || silver (10 to 40 grains to the ounce), and chloride of zinc (20 to 30 grains Fig. T5V.-Laryngeai brush, to the ounce). In using the laryngeal brush the surgeon should be guided by the laryngoscope so that he may see clearly the parts to which he applies it. As the brush is apphed the patient should be made to say " ah," so as to raise the epiglottis, and the Surgeon should actually see the brush go behind it. Guided by the laryngoscope, the brush may be momentarily passed between the vocal cords, but the spasm so caused renders it impossible to do more. The application should at first be repeated about every second or third day, in order to ensure its full elfects, but afterwards it may be made at longer intervals. Syphilitic Laryngitis.—According to Morell Mackenzie, syphilitic disease forms about 3 per cent, of all affections of the larynx. In the early stage of syphilis, slight hypersemia, with a little hoarseness, is not uncommon, but it is usually so shght as to pass unnoticed. In the later secondary stages, condylomata or mucous tubercles may be met with. They can be recognized only by the laryngoscope, by means of which they can be seen forming smooth greyish elevations, usually on the epiglottis or the inter-arytenoid fold of mucous membrane. These may be followed by superficial ulceration. The most common and characteristic of the syphiHtic affections of the larynx are those met with in the tertiary stages of the disease. The pathological changes observed are the same as in other parts—diffuse overgrowth of the connective tissue or gummatous infiltration, and the formation of isolated gurariiata. The subsequent softening of the gummata givts rise to wide- spreading, destructive ulceration, and should the patient recover and the ulcers heal, cicatricial contraction follows, sometimes to such an extent as almost to close the opening of the larynx. The parts first affected are usually the epiglottis and the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, and from these points the ulceration extends inwards towards the glottis. Sometimes the gummata may be seen as pale yellowish elevations in the mucous membrane, and should softening and ulceration follow, the yellowish adherent slough may possibly be recognized. Syphilitic ulceration not uncommonly leads to complete destruction of the epiglottis, and in the later stages necrosis of the cartilages frequently occurs. The disease is usually associated with similar ulceration in the pharynx. The symptoms are those of chronic