MANAGEMENT OF ADHESIONS. 855 : / 4 m'roned do not fully indicate the mortality of tta method ulatment, for a certain number of the few pa lenta who J^'^ ^f^j "uently the result of operations undertaken for the cure of the altitcial "Turning now to the mortality following immediate resection of the gan- Jnous bowel and intestinal sntnre, we find that of 222 cases collected by Lndal Frank. 104 or 47 per cent., died. If, therefore, we are to judge by "rt tLe ba ance of evidence is certainly in favonr of th.s treatment Tt must however be conolnded that not a few of these cases were selected as beinrleerauTfavourable, and further, it is open to question whether jn al th casTthe gut was past hope of recovery. AUowmg, however, for al he ts bL fallacies of statistics, the results certainly just.fy a f- "^^^^^ method. The objection, that it necessitates a prolonged operation m a pat.eut Uttle able to bear it, may, it is hoped, be partly removed by improved methods of intestinal suture. . . , , It can hardly be anticipated that any treatment m these desperate cases will be unattended with a high rate of mortality, for in the majority the general condition of the patient as well as the state of the mtestme are most unfavourable to any operative procedure. Small perforations of the intestine resulting from ulceration opposite the constricting band have been successfully treated by excising the perforation and closing the wound with Lembert's sutures. Management of Adhesions.-This varies according to the condition ot the bowel, and the nature and situation of the bands. As has just been remarked, if gangrene be present, especial care must be taken not to disturb any connexions that have been formed about the neck of the sac, and which constitute the most effectual barrier against fseculent extravasation When the adhesions are recent, they may readily be broken down with the fanger or the handle of the scalpel, and the parts then returned. When of old standmg and dense, they must be dealt with according to circumstances. When of a narrow and constricted form, and more particularly when seated m the neck of the sac, or stretching like bridles across its interior, they may readily be divided by a probe-pointed bistoury, or the hernia-knife. If they consist of broad attachments, they may be dissected away, by a little careful manipula- tion, from the parts in the inside of the sac ; though, if the adhesions be very extensive and of old standing, it may sometimes be more prudent to dissect away that portion of the sac which is in connexion with them than to endeavour to separate them. They may, however, attach themselves in such situations that it becomes necessary to divide them : thus I have, in a case of congenital hernia, found it necessary to dissect away some very extensive adhesions tha had formed between the omentum and the testicle, and indeed had almost completely enveloped that organ. Internal Adhesions between the omentum and intestine or mesentery occasionally exist, consisting usually of rather firm bands stretching across from one part to the other, sometimes connected with the inner wall of the sac, but in other cases confined to its contents. As these bands may