59S TUMOUM OP' THE NASAL FOSSJC. All these operations are more or less difficult and dangerous, and should not be undertaken unless the tumour threatens death from its size or from loss of blood, or sliows evident signs of active growth. Accoi-ding to Le Fort, fibrous polypi tend to cease growing with the growth of the patient, and partial destruction of the tumour by cauterization or electi'olysiS will sometimes succeed in ari-esting the further progress of the growth. Malignant Nasal Tumours.—There is a remarkable connexion Ijetween the ordinary benign nasal polypus and tumours of a sarcomatous or carcino- matous character, developing in the nasal cavity. I have sevei-al times seen in children and young adults tumours of the above-mentioned character developing rapidly in the orbit, the sphenoidal cells, or behind the superior maxilla, after the extraction of perfectly and anatomically benign nasal polypi. The questions to be solved are these :—Are these tumours the I'esult of tlie irritation of the operation of extraction ? or are they the primary disease lying concealed in the deep cavities of the face, the benign nasal polypi being in reality secondary, though more apparent, and consequent on the irritation set up by the graver and yet latent tumour ? In whatever way future investi- gators may answer this, the fact remains certain, that a connexion does exist between the two forms of disease. Tumours of rapid growth, malignant in their course (sometimes called malignant polypus), either carcinoma or sarcoma, occasionally form primarily in the middle of the nasal cavity or about the posterior nares. They grow rapidly, wn'th great expansion of the bones, much discharge, often extreme tensive pain, and often excessive hgemorrhage. They attack children and persons advanced in life. A tumour of this kind may be developed in dif- ferent situations. Thus, in some cases, it extends into the pharynx behind the soft palate, giving rise to a naso-pharyngeal tumour; in others it has a tendency to protrude through the nasal or lachrymal bones, occasionmg obstruction of the nostril, divergence and jDrotrusion of the eye-ball, with disturbance of vision, and severe neuralgic pains in the head and face, forming in this case a naso-orbital tumour. If the growth is a carcinoma, the glands under the angle of the jaw soon become enlarged, These growths, especially when occurring in young people, speedily prove fatal. Death may occur in various w-ays, according to the nature of the growth and the direction of its development: by haemorrhage ; by the implication of the brain ; by asphyxia ; or by constitutional cachexy. Treatment.—It is seldom that anything very effectual or permanent can be done by operation ; and it should be borne in mind, that some of the malignant growths which project into the nostrils take their origin from the sphenoidaf or ethmoidal cells, or even from within the cranium, and that the nasal portion is only the external protrusion of a deeply-seated tumour. Should the tumour be slow in its growth, with an absence of secondary deposits, the Surgeon may endeavour to extirpate it by laying open the side of the face freely", making an incision from the inner angle of the eye down the side of the nose, and then across the cheek, dissecting up this triangular flap, cutting across the superior maxilla above the line of the alveoli, with a narrow-bladed saw and cutting-forceps, and hen in a similar way into the orbit beyond and through the nasal bones, and the nasal process of the superior maxilla above the tumour, and thus extirpating the growth. In this operation there is often free bleeding, which may be arrested by the actual cautery,