DIAGNOSIS OF STRANGULATED HERNIA. 837 Treves states that partial enterocele is most common - ""f^ consequently in women. It has been most frequently m'^^^^^^/^^ Sedncible herni.. of small size. The tumour is always small and in nearly half of the recorded cases was not recognised during lite. In 7 out ot d« c^^s of femoral hernia an enlarged gland layover ^"-^ 1-^'^^"^'^^^ diao-nosis The bowel engaged is almost always the ileum, but m thiee it was Knum and in one the colon. The proportion of the gut included varied tTfr-fifths to one-sixth ; it was below a half in the majority of the case When more than two-thirds of the gut is strangulated the passage of fluids is arrested by the bending of the bowel; when less is imphcated the lumen may remain partly free. It has been supposed that a partial entei-ocele arises primarily from adhesion of a portion of the intestine over the mouth of a small L, and the gradual formation of a pouch-like projection but there is little evidence to support this theory. In the 53 cases collected by Treves the symptoms were those of ordinary strangulated hernia m about one-third, and in some of these after death there was found not to be complete mechanical obstruction of the lumen of the bowel. In the remaining cases the symptoms were characterised by less intensity. In three there was persistent diarrhoea throughout the case ; in several the bowels responded to aperients ; m others flatus and f^ces were passed from one to three days after strangnlation had occurred The vomiting was usually less frequent and severe, and m only six of the 53 cases was it distinctly fajculent. In almost all cases there was no distension 01 the abdomen. The gut was reduced by taxis in two cases only and both of these died rapidly from peritonitis. In four cases (three femoral and one inguinal) reduction en masse occurred. The mortahty m this form of hernia is very high, amounting to 62-2 per cent., owing to the difficulty and delay in diagnosis, and the tightness of the strangulation. There is nothing special in the treatment of this condition. Strangulated Omental Hernia has been described by some writers as giving rise to symptoms identical in character with those of strangulation of the gut, but of less intensity. When signs of intestinal obstruction are present and on operating only omentum is found in the sac, it may be assumed that a small knuckle of gut has been reduced without being noticed or that the omentum is in some way dragging on the gut so as to occlude its lumen. A pure epiplocele is very rarely strangulated. When irreducible, omentum may become inflamed, possibly as the result of injury, and an abscess has been known to form in it, and in these cases the swelling of the protruded portion may lead to its partial or complete strangulation. In this condition there are signs of peritonitis ; the vomiting is never stercoraceous ; there is constipation with pain in the hernia and in the abdomen. The skin covering the sac becomes red and swollen. If such a condition could be diagnosed the best treatment would be to cut down on and open the sac and then to remove the congested and inflamed omentum. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of strangulated hernia requires to be made fi'om the following conditions :—■ 1. Obstructed Irreducible Hernia.—In this there are no acute symptoms, and the rupture will generally be found to be a large one of old standing. It may become somewhat tense and swollen, but is not tender to the touch, and always presents a certain degi-ee of impulse on coughing. There may be constipation ; but there is no vomiting, or, if there be any, it is simply mucous