DISEASES OF THE PAROTID GLAND. 6oS IB fauces, as was the case witli the patient from whom the aiiuexed cut (Fig. (;80) was taken. The facial nerve is, of course, sin-romided by the ^^rowth and ii frequently paralysed, a condition, as before stated, rarely met with as a conse (luenco of a simple tumour. If these tumours are too deeply seated to be removed the patient eventually dies, usually in consequence of disturbance of tlie cerebral circulation, or of compression of the pharynx and larynx ; or the skin may at last become adherent and j>-ive way, profuse hemorrhage after- wards taking place from the ulcerating tumour. Diagnosis.—It is of great importance to effect the diagnosis between the non-malignant and the malignant tumours in the parotid region. In the simple tumours there is always mobility ; and, although the attachments may be deep, the skin is not involved to any extent. The outline of the mass is usually well defined and somewhat lobulated. The progress of the growth is very slow, often occupying many years before it attains any considerable bulk, as in the annexed cuts (Figs. 078, 079), representing a tumour of sixteen years' standing which I excised. In the malignant growths there is less mobility, and the mass may be solidly fixed ; its outline is ill-defined, the skin soon assumes a reddish purple colour, is brawny, and presents the usual characters indicative of a subjacent malignant growth. Soft carcinomata grow with considerable ra- pidity, feel soft and pulpy, and are rounded and ill-defined in their outline, especially under the ear and by the ramus of the jaw. Paralysis of the facial nerve early in the disease is indicative of a deep- seated malignant growth, but the absence of this symptom is no proof that the tumour is simple. The lymphatic gland, which lies just in fi'ont of the neck of the lower jaw and those superficial to the parotid, when chronically enlarged, may often closely resemble a simple parotid tumour. Their mobility is usually less than that of the simple parotid tumour, they are slightly tender Avhen pressed upon, and it is very seldom that a single gland is affected. It may, how- ever, be impossible to make a certain diagnosis till the tumour is removed. Treatment.—In the treatment of these tumours, extiqiation is necessarily the only course that can be adopted : and this should certainly not be attempted if the disease be malignant unless at a very early stage ; for, as it would be impossible to remove the deeper attachments of the growth it would speedily return. Even if the tumour be simple, care must be taken that every lobule and prolongation be extirpated ; for, if any be left, however small, it will become the nucleus of a new growth. In removing tumoui-s in this situation, the superficial incisions should be free, so that the whole mass may be fairly exposed. It is not wise to remove integument, however Fig. 680.- -Tumoiir of Parotid, too deeply- seated for Eemoval. redundant this may appear to be, unless it has undergone incorporation with the tumour, or change of structure ; and even then as little as possible should be taken away. The fibrous investments of the tumour must be fairly