RADICAL CURE OF FEMORAL HERNIA. 88i had already occurred on four occasions ; reduction, however, having been '''^^;T^l^IZor.X hernia, when it is reducible, must be conducted ,u the ordinary way by the application of a proper truss. ^ ^^^^^^^^^^^ is never, I believe, effected by the pressure of a pad, as ^^^^^times h^^^^^^^^^ iaingu/nal hernia; owing probably to the rigidity and mcompressibilityo^ Che tendinous and aponeurotic structures through which tuis rupture pro- trudes. It is often diflBcult to keep this form of hernia up by means ot a truss I have sometimes found the Mocmain truss succeed when all others have'failed When the hernia is irreducible and operation is for some reason ■ontra-indicated, it should be protected by a truss with a hollow pad ; or it hirge, supported in a suspensory bag-truss. Operation may be undertaken for the radical cure of a femoral hernia if it cannot be kept up with a properly- fittino- truss, or if it is irreducible, provided that the patient's age and general condition are favourable. As in the case of inguinal hernia, the operation should not too readily be undertaken if the hernia is very large and of long standing. ^ ,. Radical Cure of Femoral Hernia.—The early steps of the operation nre the same as when it is undertaken for the relief of strangulation. After 'the sac has been opened and its contents dealt with, it is drawn down and a carbolized silk ligature applied as high up as possible. If the sac, as often happens, can be freed from the surrounding tissues with but little dissection, it may then be cut off; or if it be more adherent, its neck may be divided below the ligature, and the fundus left in situ. In many cases, the Kgature of the neck of the sac is all that is necessary to effect a cure ; but if the crural canal is much enlarged, an attempt may be made to close it by sutures. With this object, Wood devised the following method : The sac having been ligatured and cut off and the stump allowed to retract through the ring, a curved needle on a handle is passed through the pubic portion of the fascia lata, just internally to the femoral vein, which is carefully protected by the finger. The point of the needle is then carried upwards and forwards, across the crural canal, and is made to penetrate Poupart's ligament, and then brought out at the upper end of the wound. It is then threaded with silk, kangaroo tendon, or catgut, and withdrawn. Having been freed from the hgature the needle is then passed again through the pubic portion of fascia lata in a direction inwards and forwards, so as to skirt the border of Grimbernat's ligament, and again penetrate Poupart's ligament and appear in the wound. The upper end of the ligature is next passed through the eye of the needle, which is then withdrawn. The two ends are then tied firmly in a reef-knot. The result is to close the ring by the approximation of the inner end of Poupart's ligament to the pubic portion of the fascia lata. If the ring be very wide, a third ligature may be placed through the same parts between the other two. It is somewhat doubtful whether these sutures will not cut out very soon after their insertion, owing to the tension of the parts, and to avoid this Salzer, of Utrecht, recommended that a small flap of the fascia over the pectineus muscle should be turned up- wards and sutured to the crural arch. Watson Cheyne raises a small rounded flap composed of the whole thickness of the pectineus and the fascia covering it. This is turned forwards and attached to the abdominal wall by two sutures, one passed above Poupart's ligament and another through it. In this way it VOL. II. 3 L