COMPABISON OF METHOD OF TREATMENT. ..97 or completelj. A catheter is tied into the bladder, and it posBible the continuity of ''^-^ l-:^^l^^lf^i:^:^^.^G..i,,a dilatation, carried on .nffi^B for the cure of the vast majority of strictures ; and it larely DeooiuLb ™ f* aXgco; who combiLs patience with sldll to have recourse o "ore severe methods of treatment which XX^iZ^^^:!^!- extolled and too often unnecessarily practised. The methra is in"eea i.e ruentlv tSed as if it were an inert tube, to which the various procedures of ^nturihtUng, forcible dilatation, or incision, could be appbed with il^ay. rathrt'ban a highly sensitive canal, very apt to reseat, loo»lly or constitutionally, undue violence applied to it. But whilst we fully recognize this important point, and hold with Listen that vhrnever a catheter can be got through a stricture its cure by dilatation fa iZt certain in the hands of a skilful Surgeon, yet ,t is certain that case L occasionally occur in which simple dilatation fails to effect a cure ; the rtriZe Bg Ughly contractile, and not allowing expansion beyond a certain point™ relapsing whenever the dilating means are removed. In other cases also, he patifut suffers so much pain and irritation whenever an instrument is passed that he cannot bear the repeated introductions that are necessa y more particularly if the stricture be complicated with perinaial fistute or false passages, which render its cure by dilatation tedious and atoost imiwacticab e. In snch cases as these the Surgeon, being unable to benefit his patient mate- ially by dilatation, must choose between the employment of palliative means r or more active measures. more active iucaoui<:^o. . i • i It appears to me that there are four classes of cases, m which more energetic means tban simple dilatation may not only be advantageously employed, but are absolutely required:— ^- • • v -u I Verii old dense cartilaginous strictures, often of traumatic origin, which admit an instrument with great difficulty, and cannot be dilated beyond a certain point, owing to the conversion of the urethral structures into a dense, cicatricial tissue, which neither admits of expansion nor of absorption by the pressure of instruments ; and in which a considerable extent—half an mch or niore—of the urethra is involved. 9 The same kind of stricture, complicated with fistulm m the permasum or scrotum, with perhaps considerable plastic infiltration of these parts. In both these classes, I think that the perinasal section is to be prefei-red, though with the improved instruments of the present day some of the first class may be successfully treated by internal urethrotomy. 3 Very tight strictures, accompanied by excessive sensitiveness of the urethra ; in which each introduction of the instrument is attended with intense suffering and rigors, so that the patient cannot be induced to submit to a proper course of bougies. u ti j j-i 4. Very elastic, though perhaps narroiv strictures, that can be dilated readily enough, even up to the admission of full-sized instruments ; but which, when the treatment is discontinued, immediately begin to contract again, so that the patient is never out of the Surgeon's hands, and sees no prospect of cure. In these last two classes of cases, I am of opinion that internal urethrotomy, or the forcible expansion or rupture of the stricture, is the best method of