1 1072 URTNARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY observes, he dila ed, or, ,n plain language, tore open the prostate gland" Ihese conductors, being held aside, - dilators" were introduced so as to enlarge the opening, the forceps was then pushed into tiie bladder, and LI,, stone extracted. The principles of this operation were-a limited incision in the membranous part oi the urethra above the anus ; dilatation, and not incision of the prostate and neck of the bladder ; or, to use the words of Le Cat, "small incision • much dilatation. Its results were, however, so unsuccessful, that it fell entirely into disuse hero and almost so on the Continent, merely appearing from time to time under various modifications at one or other of the Continental schools, and this condition of things prevailed until a new form of the median operation was devised by Allarton. The Operation is performed as follows : A staff, grooved along its convexity having been inserted into the bladder, the patient is tied up in the usual manner ; the Surgeon then, sitting in front, introduces his left index finger into the rectum, and feels for the apex of the prostate, against which he keeps it lodged, in order to judge of the distant-e of the prostate from the surface, to act as a guide to the knife, and prevent the rectum from being wounded. A straight- backed bistoury is now entered half an inch above the anus, and pushed straight forwards, to a depth of about an inch and H half in the mesial line, so as to enter, if possible, thp groove of the staff at the apex of the prostate. A small incision for- wards is then made in the groove of the staff, and, as the knife is withdrawn, the incision in the skin is also extended forwards ; the knife is then laid aside, and a long ball-pointed probe is introduced into the bladder along the groove of the staff, which is then withdrawn. The probe is now the only guide to the bladder. The forefinger is next introduced along the probe, and by working it forwards the prostate is dilated, and the finger enters the bladder, when, the probe being removed, the forceps is introduced, and the stone extracted. Thus it will be seen that the only real point of difference between this and the old Marian operation, is that in the former the finger is used as the dilator, whilst in the latter the prostate and neck of the bladder were forcibly expanded or torn open by instruments a difference, however, of no slight moment. I have found it advantageous to modify this operation in one or two points. The first, which I think of some utility, is to use, instead of the ordinary curved staff", a rectangular one grooved from about one inch above the elbow nearly to the point, resembling the staff introduced by Buchanan of Glasgow (Fig. 871). Its use and advantages are that, when in the bladder, the angle rests against the apex of the prostate, and can be felt in the perinaaum, and Fig. 871.—Median Operation witli Rectangular Staff. J