942 OPEIIATIONS ON TilIC AHDOMINAL VISCERA. disease of the gall-bladdev must be borne in mind, althouoh a certain dia^noBis in such cases is rarely possible except by an exploratory opei-ation ihe Mowing operations need consideration -.-(JhokcyslMomy, or openin^r he gall-bladder ; 2. Gholenjskdomy, or excision of the gall-bladder • and 8 n v?^''^"'■'"f''''^' °' establishment of a fistulous opening between the gall-bladder and intestine. . Cholecystotomy was first performed by Bobbs of Indianapolis in 18G7 the patient recovering. In 187H Marion Sims operated without success • in 1879 Lawson Tait successfully accomplished the removal of the impacted gall-stone, and since then the operation has been performed in a large numljer of cases with success. The operation is thus performed :—A vertical incision is made at the outer border of the right rectus, commencing above at the costal margin if the gall- bladder be not distended, or having its centre over the cyst if such exist. All the precautions usual in abdominal operations must be taken. If the gall- bladder be distended, the abdominal opening should be plugged around with sponges and the cyst emptied with an aspirator. As it becomes lax it is drawn well up into the wound. It is then opened freely, and its interior cleaned out with a sponge, any loose stones being removed. The finger is next intro- duced into the abdomen outside the gall-bladder, and the ducts examined for impacted calculi. These may be carefully extracted with a forceps or scoop passed into the duct from the gall-bladder and aided by the finger outside the duct. If this be impossible, the stone may be crushed with padded forceps or with the finger and thumb, or it may be broken up with a round needle passed through the wall of the duct, and the fi-agments then extracted. A last resource consists in incising the duct, and after the removal of the stone closing the incision with sutures, as successfully practised by Knowsley Thornton. The operation is completed by attaching the edges of opening in the gall-bladder to those of the upper part of the skin incision and closing the remainder of the abdominal wound in the usual way. A good-sized drainage- tube is then inserted, and an antiseptic dressing apphed. If an escape of bile shows that the passages are clear, the tube can as a rule be removed after a few days. The fistula will usually close without any further operative treat- ment. Kiister, Roux, Meredith, and others have modified the operation by com- pletely closing the opening in the gall-bladder with sutures, but as a general rule it seems to be far safer to adopt the method above described, as the danger of the stitches giving way appears to be considerable. Cholecystotomy is most difficult in those cases in which the gall-bladder is contracted and surrounded by adhesions. After the calculi have been removed it may be found impossible to draw the opening up to the abdominal incision. Under these circumstances it has been found that no harm results if a tube be passed into the gall-bladder and another into a neighbouring part of the peritoneum in case any extravasation should occur. Cholecystectomy, or excision of the gall-bladder, was first performed by Langcnbucli. It is an operation which is very rarely required, the most important indication for it being, that, as the result of stricture of the cystic duct, a fistula discharging mucus persists after cholecystotomy, or that as soon as the fistula closes, the gall-bladder again becomes distended. It is obvious that the operation should not be performed when a fistula discharging bile