URIC ACID—OXALATE OF LIME. 1027 Uric Acid Calculi.—-The calculi containing uric acid are of two kinds : the pure uric acid and the urate of ammonium. Uric acid in the form of minute concretions forms the most common variety of gravel. When a distinct calculus is formed it is usually of regular form, oval, somewhat compressed and flattened, smooth, or slightly nodular on the surface, and of a fawn colour. On section it is seen to be laminated, and to present various shades of light brown or fawn tint. Fissures are occasionally met with in its structure, the origin of which it is difficult to explain, and in rare cases the whole stone has been known to break up spontaneously into small fragments. The urate of ammonium calculus is of very rare occurrence ; it is met with chiefly in children, is composed of concentric rings, has a fine earthy appear- ance, and is clay-coloured. The uric acid calculus may be distinguished from the urate of ammonium by heating a fragment in solution of caustic potash : both dissolve, but the latter evolves ammonia in the process of solution. The treatment of uric acid deposits must be directed to the removal of the prime causes of this condition, viz., mal-assimilation, defective oxygenation, a.nd the ingestion of too large a quantity of nitrogenous food. All these may be remedied by attention to ordinary hygienic measures ; the patient must live sparely, should avoid fermented Kquors, especially red and effervescent wines, and abstain from sweets, pastry, &c. He should take plenty of outdoor exercise, ^cai^yf ^''^^ imd keep the skin in healthy action by warm dry air or vapour bathing, and the use of horsehair gloves. The bowels also must be carefully regulated by means of saline and other aperients, with occasional alterative doses of blue pill ; to which, if the constitution be gouty, some colchicum may advantageously be added. Preferable to all medicines, perhaps, are the natural aperient saline waters of Pullna, Friedrichshall, or Carlsbad, taken fasting. The patient may also be directed to drink some of the natural alkaline waters, as those of Vichy, Vals, or Fachingen. The Vichy waters containing a large quantity of carbonate of sodium, with free carbonic acid are often extremely serviceable. If they cannot be procured, a very good alkahne drmk consists of a scruple of bicarbonate of potassium and five orains of nitre dissolved in a tumbler of cold or tepid water, to which about five grains of citric acid or a tablespoonful of lemon juice may be added ; this should be taken early in the morning or in the middle of the day. The pre- parations of lithia are of essential service in removing uric acid gravel or in clearmg the urine of urates. They may be given alone, or in combination with the citrate or carbonate of potassium. Piperazine, a powerful solvent of uric acid, may be given in five-grain doses three times a day ; or aerated piperazine water containing 5 grains to the tumblerful may'be used. Deposits of Oxalate of Lime.-Oxalate of lime appears in two forms, as octahedra (Fig. 838), and as dumb-bells. The crystals are colourless or nearly 80. The dumb-bells sometimes become agglomerated into small rounded masses, forming the so-called hemp-seed calculi. The origin of oxalate of hme m the urine is a somewhat doubtful point. Oxalic acid is not present normally m the urine, and is supposed to be derived from uric acid bv imperfect oxidation. It has been ascribed also to the imperfect oxidation of the carbo-hydrates taken as food. Certain articles of diet, as sorrel and 3 u 2