N^EVI IN SPECIAL SITUATIONS. 79 (Figs. 434, 435). The integuments covering this growth were exceedingly thin, and tlie tumour itself was in the highest degree vascular and active. Excision appeared to be out of the question ; the ligature presented little to recommend it; injections with the parchloride of iron and the introduction of setons were successively tried, but neither of these means produced any effect on the tumour, which commenced to extend upwards into the nostril. I accordingly determined to use caustics. Nitric acid was first employed ; but, as this did not produce a sufficiently deep impression on the growth, I had recourse to the potassa cum calce. By means of this, the tumour was gradu- ally removed, the hjemorrhage which occasionally resulted being restrained by pressure. Notwithstanding the amount of tissue destroyed, the resulting cicatrix was small, resembling that of a badly-united hare-lip. Three years afterwards, the child was brought to me again, and I was much struck by the wonderful improvement that had taken place since the removal of the nsevus. The lip was smooth, the cicatrix in a great degree worn out, and compara- tively little disfigurement was left in the countenance of an exceedingly pretty and engaging child. Finding, however, that the lip was still drawn or tucked in by a very dense band of cicatricial tissue, which caused a deep depression of the ala of the nose, on that side, I divided this, and the result was most satisfactory. It has been recommended when the growth invades the substance of the lip deeply for a limited extent, to remove it by an operation somewhat similar to that for the removal of an epithelioma ; the whole substance of the lip being cut through widely on each side, and the sides of the wound brought together with hare-lip pins. Such operations are, how- ever, not advisable, as apart from the danger of haemorrhage, the disease can always be cured by some of the means above described, without leaving the amount of deformity that would result from its removal by the knife. Naevus of the Tongue is of rare occurrence. It is usually best treated with a fine-pointed cautery, but in ex- tensive cases it may be advisable to excise the affected portion by a A-shaped incision. In the case from which i^ig. 43G was taken, I removed the front of the tongue with the ecraseur Naevi of the Organs of Generation are occasionally met with in the tema e, but rarely m the male. The only instance of Nmms of the Penis with wbich i have met occurred in the case of a gentleman thirty-two years of ao-e who consulted me some years ago for a growth of this kind, as large as''a walnut, situated under the reflection of the preputial mucous membrane It had existed for many years without causing any annoyance, but, as it had of late begun to enlarge, and occasionally to bleed, he was desirous of havin- it removed. Ihis I did by applying the quadruple ligature, after having dis- besf L TJnT' "T^''"' ^"'^'^'^^ ^^^^^^ P^'^b^l^l^ ^« ^ i-^le the oesD treatment m such cases. Pig. 436.—NeeTOs of Tongue.