ORGANIC STRICTURE: TREATMENT. 1183 passage is very small, conical steel bougies will in many cases be found not only more efficient but quite as comfortable to the patient. The best soft instruments are the conical bougies and catheters mthbumus ends (Figs. 916 and 917). Their introduction excites far less uTitation ana pain, with much less likelihood of bleeding than that of metaUic mstrurnents. Tn most cases of ordinary stricture they will be found to be the safest ana most agreeable instruments to use. They will often glide through a tigHt irritable stricture, when all other instruments, especially metalhc ones, taU to pass. A filiform bougie made of whalebone, gum-elastic or catgut, may sometimes be passed through a very narrow stricture, when every other instrument fails to do so. The ordinary English gum-elastic catheter is of little use m the treatment of stricture by simple dilatation. A conical instru- ment, the point of which is small enough to pass readily through the stricture, can easily be pushed on so as to exert • considerable dilating force with its thickest part. An ordinary English gum-elastic catheter which is the same size throughout cannot be got into the stricture at all so as to exert any dilating force, as it is not stiff enough to be forced into it. If a stylet be used to stiffen it, it becomes as capable of making a false passage as a steel bougie, and is not under the same control. If the stricture be not only very tight, but twisted, the plan recommended by Brodie may advantageously be employed. Catgut^ ^h^Je^S This consists in taking a fine catgut bougie, and bending it, as stricture, represented in Fig. 918, about an inch from the point, so as to follow the track of the stricture. In this way, strictures that are otherwise impassable may be rendered pervious with comparative ease. If metal instruments are used the most efficient are Lister's conical steel bougies (Fig. 919). There should be a difference of three sizes between the thinnest and the thickest parts of the straight portion of the instrument by which the dilatation is performed. The point should be well rounded, 918. — Fig. 019.—Lister's Conical Steel Bougie. and the instrument passes more readily if there is a slight constriction immediately beyond it. The instrument should be made of nickel-plated steel and be highly polished. It should have a broad metallic handle, which transmits any sensation communicated to the point more readily than a wooden one. That this instrument will pass much more easily than a catheter is self-evident, and the latter should be used only when it is intended to tie it in. If a catheter be used it should be made very solid and stiff. The rings should be large, so as to serve for a handle, and the eyes well rounded off and somewhat depressed, so that they may not scrape the urethra. These