226 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. find carried upwards between the two points mentioned. The wound thus made is altogether external to the inguinal canal and to the line of tlie epi- gastric, and above and internal to tiie main trunk of the cii-cumflex iliac artery. It is about four inches in length, and, if necessary, in fat subjects may be extended at the upper end. After cutting through the skin and superficial fascia, the tendon of the external obhque is carefully divided, as much as possible in the line of its fibres. The internal oblique and transversalis are next divided with great caution, when the transversalis fascia is reached, and recognized by its dull white appearance. Beneath this membrane there is often a little fat, especially at the lower part of the wound. A small portion of the fascia, at the lower end of the wound, is now carefully raised with the forceps, and cut through with the blade of the scalpel laid on tlie flat. A broad hernia director is then introduced, and passed underneath it, wiien it should be laid open to the' full extent of the wound. In doing this care must be taken not to wound the peritoneum. This is most likely to happen in consequence of a fold of that membrane overlapping the end of the director, so that the knife wounds it when run along the groove. To avoid this it is safer not to push the knife quite to the end of the director. The risk of wounding the peritoneum may also be avoided by tearing the transversalis fascia with the fingers instead of using the knife. Both the fascia transversalis and the fascia iliaca are firmly attached to Poupart's ligament, so that there is no risk of stripping up the latter fascia in such a way as to displace the vessels. If a hole be made in the fascia transversalis large enough to admit the tips of the two forefingers, it will be found always to tear with the greatest ease to the full extent of the wound. When this is accomphshed the whole inner side of the wound is drawn inwards and slightly downwards, the peri- toneum being gently separated from its loose areolar connexions in the ihac fossa by the Surgeon's fingers ; it must be kept out of the way by an assistant, who holds it up with a broad bent copper spatula. The artery will now be felt pulsating at the brim of the pelvis, and is readily brought into view at the bottom of the wound. It is enclosed in a very loose areolar sheath, and has the vein lying to its inner side and the genital branch of the genito-crural upon it. It is crossed near Poupart's ligament by the circumflex ihac vein. The investing areolar tissue must be scratched through, and the needle passed from the inner side between the vessels. When the artery is much diseased, it is often very tortuous, and may dip down into the pelvis so as to make it difficult to expose it except close to its lower end. Occasionally enlarged glands round the artery give some trouble by obscuring it and rendering it difficult to clean. In Astley Cooper's operation the outer two-thirds of the inguinal canal are opened. An incision is made about three inches in length, beginning close to Poupart's ligament, about half an inch outside the external abdominal ring, and terminating about one inch internal to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium. The line of incision is not quite parallel to Poupart's Hgament, but rather to the fibres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. In dividing the superficial fascia, the superficial epigastric artery is cut and must be ligatured. The external oblique having been exposed, a small hole is made through the aponeurosis at the lower end of the wound, and a director mserted, on which it is divided to the full extent of the wound, care being taken to cut exactly parallel to the fibres so as to injure the tendon as little as possible.