354 DISEASES OF JOINTS. douches of sea-water. The swelhng and pufiiness that are left, together with the weakness dependent on relaxation of the ligaments, are perhaps best remedied by the use of strapping ; but pressure should not be applied so long as there is evidence of active inflammation going on in the articulation, which it would certainly increase. CHRONIC RHEUMATIC ARTHRITIS, RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS, ARTHRITIS DEFORMANS, OSTEO-ARTHRITIS. By these terms is meant a chronic disease of the joints of a progressive character—painful, disabling, deforming, and incurable. This disease has long attracted the attention of physicians, and has been described as " rheumatic gout," " nodosity of joints," and " deforming arthritis," or " osteo-arthritis." But little was really known of its true nature until its pathology was studied by R. Adams and R. W. Smith of Dublin, who accurately described it under the name of "chronic rheumatic arthritis." More recently, Garrod added much to our knowledge of this disease, and proposed for it the name of " rheumatoid arthritis." When it gives rise to much distortion of limb and deformity of joint, as often happens when the hands are chronically aflfected, the name of " arthritis deformans " is given to it. This disease may attack any joint, and may continue limited to it, or may extend from one to another until most of the larger articulations are involved. It commences usually in the joints of the limbs, and may be confined to them, or it may primarily attack the temporo-maxillary articulations or those of the spinal column. It occurs in both sexes with tolerably equal frequency. But some joints appear to be more liable in one sex than in the other. Thus the hip in the male, and the knee in the female, are more commonly the seats of the malady. Rheumatoid Arthritis is essentially a disease of middle age ; when once it sets in it will continue for an indefinite period, far into old age. It may affect one or two joints symmetrically, especially when it occurs in persons otherwise healthy and past middle life. It is then usually confined to the larger articulations. In other cases it may attack a number of joints, including the smaller articulations, such as those of the fingers. This form is often termed polyarticular rheumatoid arthritis, to distinguish it from the more limited or monarticular affection. It often leads to great deformity, and may entirely cripple the patient. It is met with sometimes at a comparatively early age, especially in antemic females. Rheumatoid Arthritis consists essentially in an organic change of structure in all the various component parts of the affected joint. The starting-point of the disease appears in most cases to be the cartilage. The first change observed is a loss of polish and smoothness, gradually increasing till the surface becomes velvety in appearance. Microscopic examination shows that this change is due to the gradual conversion of the matrix into fibrous tissue, the fibrillse of which are arranged at right angles to the surface. At the same time multiplication of the cartilage cells takes place, so that the capsules are found to contain an excess of cells, which, however, retani the appearance of cartilage cells. The cartilage so altered is gradually worn away by the friction of the diseased surfaces against each other, until the bone is exposed. When this takes place the exposed bone becomes increased in