658 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE NOSE. readily as ink by the flow of blood, which is often rather free. This flan should be of the shape shown in Fig. 70G, care being taken that it is rather square at the angles, and not too much rounded off. When the whole of the nose requires restoration, it is usually necessary to make the flap about two and a half to three inches in length, by about the same in width at the broadest part. It may be taken cither from the middle of the forehead or obhquely from one side ; if the latter, the right side is the more convenient.' It must now be dissected off the forehead ; in doing this, care must be taken to cut the flap as thick as possible, especially at its root between the eyebrows. It must also be but little handled, and above all, not pinched, either with fingers or forceps. The dissection should be commenced at the root, so that the outline may not be obscured by blood ; and this part should be left long, in order to admit afterwards of a very gradual and easy twist. In order to' facilitate this, it is desirable also to make the incision on the right side ahttle lower than that ou the left. After the flap has been raised throughout the whole of its extent, pressure should be applied to the forehead by means of a sponge, with a view of arresting the bleed- ing, before the next step is taken. This consists in paring the surface and edges of the stump of the nose, and removing the integuments from it in such a way as to leave a triangular raw surface. In doing this care must be taken not to remove the parts too widely, lest the cheeks should retract, and flatten out the nose. The integuments also should be dissected away in such a manner as to form a deep groove shelving inwards, so as to receive and hold the flap more securely and with less over- lapping of the edges. The operation must now be discontinued until all bleeding has ceased, and the cut surfaces have become glazed ; this point is of great importance in securing direct adhesion. The bleeding having been arrested by exposure to the air, and by the torsion rather than the ligature of any spouting branch, the flap should be brought down by a twist from left to right, and attached by a few points of fine suture on each side to the edge of the incision around the nasal aperture. A pledget of soft Hnt, or wool greased with carbolic oil, should now be gently insinuated under the flap, the lower part of the incision on the forehead drawn together by a point of suture, but not so as to constrict the root, and the rest of the exposed surface covered with some simple dressing. The parts will then present the appearance shown m Fig. 708, taken from a patient of mine the day after the operation. Fig. 707 represents the deformity for which the operation was performed. The patient should be put to bed with a piece of cotton-wool laid over the whole of the face, so as to maintain its temperature ; and, if it be winter, he must be placed in a room that is well warmed day and night. The dressings must not be disturbed for three days : by this time, if all go well, the flap will be found somewhat tumid, warm, and sensitive, but pale m colour. The plug in the nose will now require chauging, lest it be renderea 1^ Fig. 706.—Diagram of Flap in Rhinoplastic Operation.