X036 UMINARY CALCULUS AND LIT J WTO MY. the Grant Medical College at Bombay, shows that the percentage of calculi * with a uric acid or urate of ammonium nucleus is, in India, ,06-30, iaiH England, 71-79 ; while that of calculi with a nucleus of oxalate of lime is in^ India, 88-1)5, in Eugland, lG-87. The calculi composed purely of oxalate of lime also greatly exceed in number those which consist entirely of uric acid or urate of ammonium. Peculiarity of race, of constitution, and of diet, with exposure to prevalent dry and cold winds, have all been assigned as reasons for these differences ; but probably not on very sufficient grounds. The Symptoms of sDone in the bladder vary according as the calculus is free or encysted. Their intensity will depend on the size and shape of the stone, the condition of the bladder, and the constitution of the patient. Most commonly, the severity of the symptoms is in proportion to the size of the calculus. This, however, is not always the case. In a patient whom I once cut, the most intense suffering and repeated attacks of cystitis had been occa- sioned by a small but sharp-pointed calculus, not weighing more than a drachm ; and some years ago I saw a patient in whose bladder five calcuU nearly as large as chestnuts were found after death, though their presence had never been suspected during life by the different Surgeons under whose care he had been for stricture, so little distress had they occasioned. In some cases, the symptoms of stone declare themselves very suddenly ; and then the Surgeon finds on examination that the patient has a calculus of some size, which must have been a long time forming without attracting attention. Eough and angular calculi necessarily give rise to more severe symptoms than smooth ones. Phosphatic calculi being deposited almost invariably as a con- sequence of cystitis with foul urine, are accompanied by much pain and constitutional disturbance. The symptoms induced by stone are the result of the mechanical irritation produced by the presence of a foreign body in the bladder ; they consist of Pain, Increased Frequency in Micturition, occasional Stoppage of the Urine, and Various Morbid Conditions of that Fluid. The Fain in calculus is often the first symptom that attracts attention; it varies greatly in character and degree. It may be experienced not only in the region of the bladder and the perinseum, but may radiate widely in the course of the nerves of the lumbar and sacral plexuses, the patient complaining of a heavy and dragging sensation in the groins, extending down the outside or back of the thighs, and not uncommonly experienced in the soles of the feet. The penis is the seat of a good deal of uneasiness ; frequently there is sharp and cutting pain at the end of the glans. This is especially noticed in children, in whom attention is often attracted to the complaint by their con- stantly squeezing and pulling the organ to relieve the distress they suifer in it. The pain is much increased by any movement by which the stone is jolted about in the bladder, as in driving, riding, or jumping ; and is especially severe in those cases in which cystitis occurs. It is always most severe towards the termination of, or immediately after, micturition ; as there is then a tendency for the calculus to roll forwards towards the neck of the bladder, where it comes into contact with and is grasped by the most sensitive part of that organ. Hence it is not infrequent, in cases of calculus in children, to find that the little patient instinctively lies upon his back or side whilst pass- ing urine, and thus escapes much of the agony that he would otherwise sufter. In adults in whom the prostate happens to be enlarged, the calculus usually