EXCISION OF TONGUE: RESULTS. 699 the diseased part with the ^craseur or scissors, and the same method is equally applicable when half the organ has to be removed. If the posterior part be superficially affected the disease may be cut out and the buccal operation will then, in some cases, be found to expose the part most fully. If the organ De so deeply affected that the whole requires extirpation, this can be done from the mouth with the ecraseur or by Whitehead's method. In some cases it wi 1 be found most convenient to spht the tongue and remove the halves separa ely. If the floor of the mouth is imphcated, recourse may be had to feedillot s operation of division of the lower lip and jaw in the middle line. If it is intended to remove the glands below the jaw, Kocher's method will be found the best. Whichever method be adopted, the sublingual gland should always be removed either with the tongue or by scissors after the main part of the disease has been taken away, as there are some small lymphatic glands buried in its substance which are often an early seat of recurrence of the disease. With regard to the choice between the ecraseur and the scissors it may be said that Increasing experience shows clearly the great superiority of the latter. The ecraseur tends to slip forward and so to leave some of the disease behind, it by no means certainly prevents hseinorrhage during the operation, and it leaves a crushed surface which heals less rapidly and from which secondary hgemorrhage is not unlikely to occur. By the use of the scissors the Surgeon can accui-ately cut beyond the limits of the disease. A clean cut surface is left which readily heals, and if the bleeding vessels are twisted, secondary hsemorrhage is very unlikely to follow. It requires, however, a skilled assistant on whom the Surgeon can rely to seize the bleeding vessels in the forcipressure forceps. Results.—The prognosis in cancer of the tongue is always bad. Removal of the diseased organ in part or in whole may reheve for a time, but very rarely does more than this. The more acute the cancer, the more rapid will be its recurrence, either locally or in the glands. A. E. Barker, who has most carefully investigated this point, states that out of 170 cases collected from various sources he could find only 17 in which recurrence did not take place within one year ; and in the whole of medical literature he could meet with the record of only 42 cases in which the patient had remained free from recurrence for a sufficient length of time to justify the hope that he was permanently freed from the disease. One of the most successful cases on record was operated on l^y C. Heath. The cancer was situated near the frsenum, adhering to the jaw and extending upwards into the substance of the tongue. The whole incisor portion of the lower jaw and the anterior half of the tongue with the corresponding part of the floor of the mouth were removed in one piece. The patient is still alive and in good health nearly twenty years after the operation. The mortality directly from the operation though considerable, is not very high when the serious nature of the proceeding is considered. Barker has collected 218 cases from various sources, and finds that the death rate is 16*9 per cent. It is satisfactory, however, to note that of late years it has considerably diminished. Thus, at University College Hospital, 38 cases were operated on between 1871 and 1881, of which 10 died ; 20 of these operations were performed before 1877, and of these 8 died, while of the remaining 18 only 2 died. The diminished death-rate seems to be due in part at least to the more successful prevention of decomposition by the use of