357 CHBONIC RHEUMATOID ARTHRITIS OF HIP. arc both extremely useful in some cases. When the disease is once fairly established, and has assumed a very chronic character, it will be found of great importance to give the aifected joint as much rest as possible, without confining the patient to the couch or house. This is best effected by his wearing a proper supporting apparatus. When the hip or knee is the seat of the disease, the apparatus should consist of a firm leather pelvic band having a steel rod extending down the outside of the limb, hinged angularly opposite the hip, knee, and ankle, and fixed into a socket in the sole of the boot, and properly adjusted by means of straps and moulded leather to the thigh and leg. By the use of this apparatus the weight of the limb is taken off, and all rotatory movement of the hip is prevented, to-and-fro motion being allowed. Thomas's hip- or knee-splint will sometimes be found useful, Mineral waters and baths are often beneficial in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis ; those of Wildbad and Franzenbad in Germany, of Aix-les-Bains in Savoy, Bareges and the other Pyrenean sulphurous waters in France, and Buxton and Bath in this country are among the most useful. That warm douching and bathing may give great relief is undoubted. But that they can cure an organic joint disease of the nature of rheumatoid arthritis is scarcely within the bounds of probability. Chronic Rheumatoid Arthritis of the Hip.— This form of the disease commences with pain in and about the joint, increased at night, and especially in damp or cold weather, presenting in this respect the ordinary characters of a rheumatic affection. As the disease advances, the pain, which is continuous, is much increased by standing or walking, and the move- ments of the joint become gradually more and more impaired. The patient experiences the greatest diffi- culty in bending the body forwards from the hips ; he consequently is unable to stoop, or to sit in the ordinary position, being obliged to keep the limb straightened in nearly a direct line with the trunk. The difficulty iu walking, in standing erect, in stooping and in sitting increases. The trochanter will be felt to be thickened. The limb becomes gradually shortened to the extent of about an inch or more, owing to changes that take place iu the head and neck of the bone. The pelvis also assumes an oblique direction, and hence the apparent shortening becomes considerably greater. The knee and foot may either be inverted or everted, and the heel is raised. The hip also becomes flattened posteriorly, the gluteal muscles waste so that the fold of the nates diminishes and sinks to a lower level, but the trochanter projects, and on examination seems larger and thicker than natural (Fig. 543). On rotating the limb, the movements of the bone are extremely limited, and crackling, grating, osseous crepitation will often be felt around the joint. As Smitli remarks, the lumbar vertebra acquire great mobility. The thigh on the affected side is wasted, but the calf retains its natural size and firmness. Pathological Changes.—On examination after death, the changes already Pig. 543. — Chronic Rheu- matoid Arthritis of Bight Hip-joint.