113 DIAGNOSIS OF ANEURISM. Of eccentric nor distensile, and that the sweUing may often be wholly or partly separated, by raising it up, from the artery lying beneath it. By attention to these points, abscesses in the axilla, under the pectorals, at the root of the neck, and in other situations where pulsation may readily be communicated to the fluid mass, can be distinguished from aneurisms ; yet errors in diagnosis have happened, and will continue to do so, from the intrinsic difficulty of these cases, and fromjno want of skill or care on the part of the Surgeon: and those will be most charitable in their criticisms of the mistakes of others, who have had most experience of these difficulties in their own practice. Tumours that do not pulsate, either by their own vessels or by those that lie beneath them, are not so readily confounded with aneurism as the class of affections that has just been described. Yet it must be borne in mind that in some instances even aneurisms do not pulsate, or do so but very indistinctly, having be- come filled with a dense and firm coagulum. The non-pulsating tumours that chiefly require attention are glandular swellings, seated over the carotid artery at the root of the neck, or in the popliteal space. In the neck some thyroid tumours may also closely resemble aneurisms. If these be of a fluid character, their fluctuation, unvary- ing size, and want of pulsation, sufficiently indicate that they are not connected with the artery, from which they may also frequently be separated, and upon which they may be distinctly moved. If solid, they are usually irregular and nodulated on the surface, and can frequently be detached by the fingers being passed underneath them and raising them from the subjacent vessel. There is great danger of mistaking an aneurism which is undergoing or has undergone spontaneous cure, and in which consequently there is no pulsation, for a solid tumour of some kind. I have known one instance in which the thigh was amputated for a very painful solid tumour of the popliteal El nt;:'(?r4'0).'^'~ ^^^^ Aneurisms, more particularly those that are diffused, have not unfrequentlv been mistaken for abscesses; and it is no very uncommon thing for a Surgeo^ to be called to an aneurism which, under this supposition, has been dilig^ntlv poulticed, or painted with iodine. I have twice ligatured the external ilL for 7ZT%^\ ' ^'T'^ ^""^ '"^''^^'''^ abscesses. Occasionally he more fatal error has been committed of puncturing the tumour with he I w of T -^^-W---and, either- immediately or afte a lapse of a few hours, profuse arterial ha3morrhage ensued That this aooidpnf may arise from the intrinsic diffioulries of the diagnosis; is evMenrfrm^^^^^^ VOL, II, Fig. 4.00.—Section of Aneurism of Calf, under- going spontaneous cure, nii.stiiken for Tu- mour. Limb amputated. («) Black recent Coagulum lying in centre of Laminated Fi- brni. ih) Posterior Tibial Nerve stretched.