I 1122 DISEASES OF THE BLADDER. Tho fact that atony of the bladder is rarely met with in women would sue-rest that in the great majority of cases mechanical obstruction from'enlargement ^ of the prostate is to be regarded as the primary factor in the production of the disease. Symptoms.—When this condition comes on slowly as the result of ad- vancing years, the patient usually finds that the urine escapes in a dribbling manner ; that there is some difficulty, and at last an impossibility, in empty- ing the bladder completely ; that there is not that forcible ejection of the la«t drops of urine that is characteristic of a healthy tone in the organ ; at the same time, there is not unfrequently a tendency to the dribbling away of a few- drops towards the end of micturition, and after its apparent cessation. The patient feels a desire to pass water more frequently than usual. He - cannot retain his urine for more than an hour or two ; he is often disturbed ^ during the night, and if he does not at once obey the impulse, is apt to wet his clothes. This frequent desire to pass water is due to the bladder never emptying itself, a certain quantity—several ounces—of residual urine being - left behind ; by the addition of a small quantity the bladder becomes over- loaded, and the desire to micturate is felt. Temporary reUef is afforded, but as secretion continues the bladder soon tills up again, and so the process goes on. When complete retention occurs, the bladder slowly rises out of the pelvis into the hypogastric region, reaching even as high as the umbiUcus. On examining the lower part of the abdomen, the organ will be felt hard, elastic, ^ rounded, and pyriform in shape, projecting above the pubes, and feeling much I like an enlarged uterus. In this situation, also, percussion will elicit a duU sound; on exploring the part through the rectum, the bladder will be found to project in this direction also ; and on tapping with the fingers above the pubes, fluctuation may be felt through the wall of the gut. The distension of the bladder is sometimes so very gradual and slow that \\i i" the over-distended organ has been mistaken for an abdominal tumour. Tbt- urine dribbles away, and no pain and.but little inconvenience is felt. (Edema.. of the legs may occur from pressure on the iliac veins. Atony of the bladder is a sufficient cause for incomplete retention of urine. • But it does not appear to be adequate to explain the complete retention with distension of the bladder that is commonly seen. For this to occur there must be some mechanical obstacle, however shght, to the outward flow of the urine—contraction of the neck, or an enlarged prostate. Could complete retention occur from a merely atonic bladder, we should meet with it as frequently in women as in men. It is the mechanical obstacle at the neck of the male bladder which intensifies the effects of its atony and leads to the ^ complete stoppage. After the bladder has once become distended, the retention may be com- ■ plete, but it more commonly happens that a quantity of urine continues to dribble out of it; in fact, the amount that escapes in this manner may be very considerable, though the retention continue unrelieved. This retention ivith drihhling is a condition of great practical importance, as the continued . escape of urine may lead the patient, and even the Surgeon, to overlook the f true state of things ; the more so, as in elderly people retention slowly induced often occasions but little inconvenience. I have drawn off nearly a gallon of urine from a patient in whom it had not been suspected that reten- tion existed, in consequence of the continuance of this dribbling. In women ; 2)1 1