242 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. surrounding it being touched with the edge of the scalpel, if necessary, until its inner edge comes into view. If the operation be performed a little higher than usual, or if the sartorius be feebly developed, its inner edge may come into view as soon as the fascia lata is divided. The edge having been found, the muscle must be turned outwards and held on one side with a copper spatula. A little loose areolar tissue must then be cleared away from beneath it with the handle of the scalpel, and the sheath of the vessels comes clearly into view. If the internal cutaneous nerve be seen it should be drawn aside, but its division is a matter of small importance ; the internal saphenous nerve lies some distance to the outer side of the artery. The sheath must be cautiously opened, a small hole being made in it as in the diagram (Fig. 500). It must be remembered that after the fascial sheath common to the artery and vein has been opened, there is still the proper sheath of the artery to be divided before the ligature can b'- safely passed. The vein lies beneath the artery, and consequently the needle may be passed from the inner or outer side indifferently ; it should be passed unarmed, and then be threaded and withdrawn. Usually, no nerve is seen during the operation, but the internal saphenous occasionally comes into view, and must be avoided. After the operation a drainage-tube should be inserted in such a way that its end shall lie beneath the sartorius, and the wound is closed with sutures. The limb is then semiflexed, somewhat raised, and laid on its outer side and wrapped in soft flannel or cotton wool. The severe pain which is usually complained of about the knee after the operation may be relieved by a full dose of opium. In this operation there are several points of considerable importance that require special attention : 1. The incision should be made directly in the guiding hne of the artery. 2. In cutting down upon the artery, the saphenous vein should be avoided, by taking care not to make the incision too far in- wards. Any parallel venous branch that may be met with must be drawn on one side. 3. After the sheath has been opened, it will sometimes be found that a rather large muscular branch is given off from the artery at about the part where it was intended to ligature it; if so, this must be carefully avoided, as well as any small veins that cross the main trunk in this situation. 4. The ligature should not be applied less than four inches below Poupart's ligament, so that sufficient space may intervene between the origin of the deep femoral, which is usually from one or two inches below the ligament, and the point deligated, to admit of the formation of a proper coagulum in the vessel. It has, however, happened that the ligature has been placed within three-quarters of an inch of the origin of the deep femoral, without any injurious conse- quences resulting. 5. The greatest care must be taken not to wound the femoral vein, which lies behind the artery in the situation in w-hich a ligature is usually applied. If the vessel is tied a little higher than usual, the vein will be towards the inner side, and then the needle must be passed from within outwards. Wounding the vein is best avoided by properly cleaning the artery ; the white external coat must be thoroughly exposed, and while the needle is being passed the sheath should be put thoroughly on the stretch, the Pig. 500.—Diagram of the Left Femoral Artery, s. sartorius ; /. femoral sheath ; a, artery.