26o INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND Fl'S EFFECTS. directly in contact with the bone, the rest of the space snrrounding the vessels being filled with the ordiiuiry small round cells of granulation tissue. Their mode of development and subsequent fate are uncertain. The osseous tissue which is yet uudestroyed often presents no evident change. The bone- corpuscles certainly show no signs of taking any part in the process. Should they show any change, it is one of degeneration, not of proliferation. They may be unnatui-ally granular, and are sometimes represented merely by an oil- globule, or a mass of fat granules. They can in most cases be seen to be unaltered until the lacunas in which they lie are opened by the advancing absorption of the osseous tissue, and after that their fate is unknown. When the destructive process has advanced far enough to form a consider- able space filled with granulation cells around the original vessel of the Haversian canal, new capillary loops are found penetrating amongst the new tissue, just as in the development of granulation tissue in a wound. The destruction of bone by the pressure of a tumour or an aneurism, or its Fig. 503.—Section of bone in which deposition by osteoblasts and absorption bj' osteoclasts are in progress (94 dianis.). a. Osteoclasts and Howship's lacniiie ; h. Osteoblasts. infiltration by a malignant growth, is carried out by the same process as that just described, but in the former case, when the Haversian canals have become sufficiently enlarged, the special elements of the tumour penetrate into them, displacing the granulation tissue. The compact tissue may in like manner be invaded by the specific tissue of a syphihtic gumma. Various terms are applied clinically to this rarefying osteitis under its diff'erent modifications. When the process is widely diff"used, a large part of the shaft of a bone being rendered more porous than natural without complete destruction of the osseous tissue, it is sometimes termed inflammatori/osteojwrosis. When only a localised area is afi'ected, as in the separation of dead from living bone, with complete destruction of the osseous tissue, and subsequent formation of pus from the granulation tissue replacing it, it is termed simfple ulceration of hone. When it occurs as the result of the infiltration of the compact tissue by a subperiosteal gumma followed by softening and suppuration of the new growth, it is described as syphilitic caries. Osteoplastic Osteitis or Osteo-sclerosis.—This is always an extremely