^ALJVAHY FISTULA. 6oi the cribriform plate bad been absorbed by the pressure of the growth which had come directly in contact with the dura mater. The cause of death was a >inall rent in the membrane. The tumour was papillary in structure, and covered with non-ciliated columnar epithelium. Sections of the growth under the microscope closely resembled those of papillary growths from the rectum, 'l^he effect produced by the growth on the surrounding parts seemed merely [he result of pressure and not of infiltration, consequently the growth may be regarded rather as a papilloma than a columnar carcinoma. The Frontal Sinuses, though rarely, are occasionally the seat of disease. Abscess may form here, with much pain and expansion, and possibly caries of (heir anterior wall, attended with the local signs of inflammation and with danger of concomitant inflammation of the membranes of the brain. In such circumstances it may be proper for the Surgeon to remove with a trephine the anterior wall of the sinus, and thus give exit to the retained pus. In other instances the anterior wall of the sinus may be necrosed and perforated, the aperture being felt under a puffy tumour of the scalp. Here also the trephine is required. Distension with serous fluid has been described as having occurred in some cases. There are a few cases, recorded in surgical writings, of Polypi springing from these sinuses, and finding their way down into the nose after producing expansion of it and much inconvenience. Here likewise, the propriety of trephining and so extracting the morbid mass would have to be considered. DISEASES OF THE CHEEKS. The chief diseases met with in the cheeks are, Nsevi (p. 09), Atheromatous Oysts (Vol. I., p. 1006), Subcutaneous Tuberculous Abscesses (Vol. I., p. 1092), Primary Syphilitic Sores (Vol. I., p. 1128), Tertiary Syphilitic Ulcers (Vol. I., p. 1149), Lupus (Vol. IL, p. 5), Squamous Carcinoma (Vol. I., p. 10G9), and Rodent Ulcer (Vol. II., p. 10). The symptoms and treatment of all these affections have already been described. On the inner surface of the cheek mucous cysts, which can easily be dissected out from the inside, are not un- common. Epithelioma also is not rare. Malignant tumours affecting the whole thickness of the cheek can seldom be operated on with any advantage. Salivary Fistula.—One of the most troublesome surgical affections .situated in the cheek is Salivary Fistula, occurring in consequence of injury, abscess, or operation, by which the parotid gland or duct has been opened, so as to cause a trickling of saliva through the external aperture made into it. The flow of saliva in these cases is always to a great extent and often entirely intermittent, ceasing in the interval between meals, and becoming very abun- dant during mastication. The Treatment is by no means satisfactory, the attempt at union of the opening in the cheek being frustrated by the escape of saliva through it. If the fistula be very small and recent, the electric cautery may be employed with success ; or the external aperture may be touched from time to time with a pointed stick of nitrate of silver. Should these means fail, the fistula having become chronic, operative measures will be required. The closure of an old salivary fistula in the cheek is a very troublesome matter. In these cases the duct appears to be obstructed or partially closed ; and it is useless to attempt to occlude the opening in the cheek until a proper aperture has been made