SPLENECTOMY. 943 is due to obstruction of the common duct. Robson believes that excision of the gall-bladder for malignant disease can rarely be called for, as the neigh- bouring parts are almost always implicated. The operation consists m care- fully isolating the gall-bladder until the cystic duct is reached, which is liiratured with silk and divided. Cholecystenterostomy, or the formation of a fistulous opening between the gall-bladder and the intestine, was first performed by Von Winiwarter in 1880. The operation may be undertaken in cases of jaundice due to some form of incurable obstruction in the common duct, and has been successfully performed by Mayo Robson and others in cases of incurable bihary fistula. The operation is carried out through an incision in the right linea semilunaris, and the communication should, if possible, be established with the upper part of the jejunum. Various methods have been adopted by.different operators. Von Winiwarter sutured together the gall-bladder and jejunum around two circular areas, and at a second operation opened the adherent part through an incision in the bowel. In other cases the method of suture used by Wolfler in gastro- enterostomy (p. 937) has been successfully adopted. In this operation, as in the various forms of intestinal anastomosis, different mechanical contrivances have been devised with the object of rendering the use of complicated methods of suture unnecessary. Thus, in two of the three successful operations performed by Mayo Robson decalcified bone bobbins were used. The bobbin is shaped like a cotton-reel, and the ends are inserted into the viscera to be connected through a small incision in the wall of each. Only two sutures are needed : an inner, to approximate the edges of the divided mucous membrane, and draw them tightly around the bobbin, and an outer, to include the serous and muscular coats. Murphy of Chicago has introduced an ingenious metal button," which, like the bone bobbin, can be used in all forms of intestinal anastomosis or end to end approximation. The button consists of male and female halves, each composed of a hollow stem with an expanded cup-shaped extremity. The two halves when pressed together are held by two spring catches in the stem of the male portion, which hold upon a screw-thread in the stem of the other half. The separated halves of the button are inserted, one into the gall-bladder, the other into the intestine, through a short incision in the wall of each, and the margin of the opening is drawn tightly around the cylindrical portion of the button by means of run- ning silk sutures previously inserted. The two halves of the button are then clamped together, and thus the serous coats are firmly approximated by a spring flange on the male half of the button. Adhesions form around, and eventually the button is liberated and passes on through the bowel. The results of the operation appear to have been satisfactory, and the mortality not high. Murphy has collected 48 cases, of which 10 died. Of 23 •cases in which the Murphy " button " was employed only 2 died, and in both of these the obstruction of the bile-duct was due to carcinoma of the pancreas. SPLENECTOHrr. Vulpius of Heidelberg has collected, 117 cases of removal of the spleen, of Avhich 59 recovered and 58 died. In 28 cases the operation was undertaken in leucocythaemia ; of these 25 died directly from the effects of the operation, the most common cause of death being uncontrollable htemorrhage resulting