'1 COMPARISOX OF TRACHEOTOMY ARB LARYNGOTOMY. 751 ;iimll crico-thyroid artery which crosses ib, and which might be cut across, but Vom which I have never'seen auy trouble arise. The trachea, on the contrary, . not only deeply seated, but covered by a large plexus of blood-vessels, which, A hen rendered turgid by the asphyxiated condition that exists when an opera- ion is required, pours out a large quantity of dark blood, and thus seriously aibarrasses and delays the Surgeon at a time when the life of the patient lepends on the speedy admission of air to his lungs. 3. Laryngotomy can be much more quickly performed than tracheotomy. This I look upon as an inestimable advantage in many of the cases requiring operation ; a few seconds more or less being sufficient to turn the balance ither in favour of life or of death. The rapidity with which laryngeal hstraction—partly mechanical and partly from spasm—sets in, is sometimes , I o-reat, more particularly when an acute inflammation supervenes on chronic disease of the larynx, that life may be extinguished before the Surgeon has time to open the windpipe, if he endeavour to do so by tracheotomy. In extreme cases, in which the lungs have become slowly engorged, the action of the heart is already enfeebled, and a sudden spasm occurring at the glottis will at once place the patient beyond recovery. But even though life appear for the moment extinct, it is the imperative duty of the Surgeon to open the air-passage as speedily as possible, and to endeavour, by means of artificial I respiration, to revive the flickering spark ; and it is impossible to experience a o;reater satisfaction in the exercise of our profession, or to witness a greater triumph of art, than in thus snatching a patient out of the very jaws of death. An objection has been urged to laryngotomy in these cases, that it does not allow the patient to wear a tube without much irritation being induced. This, however, I have not found to be the case in my practice. I have had patients who have worn silver tubes in this situation a considerable number of years, in one case as many as twelve, and in whom no special irritation has been occasioned by them. After-Treatment of Laryngotomy and Tracheotomy.—In all cases after the windpipe has been opened, the patient should be placed in a well- warmed room, the air of which should be kept moist by means of steam. A rhin piece of muslin folded two or three times may be laid over the opening (jf the tube to exclude dust. If the operation have been performed for some temporary obstruction of the glottis, such as the impaction of a foreign body, the tube may be taken out as soon as the cause is removed, and the wound allowed to heal by granulation, or as suggested by MacCormac, the wound in the trachea may be closed by cat-gut sutures. The afier-ireatment of irachpotomy for membranous Jar i/7ig it is requires special attention, as the success of the operation depends almost entirely upon it. The objects in view are, 1st, to provide a warm moist atmosphere, in order to ■liminish as far as possible the risk of bronchitis ; 2nd, to keep the tube (;lean and free ; 3rd, to hasten the separation of the membrane and limit its '.■xtension ; and 4th, to remove the tube at the earliest possible period. A warm moist atmosphere is best provided by placing the child in a bed over which a sort of tent of sheets is reared, supported by pieces of lath or iron attached to the legs of the bedstead. One side of this tent must be left open, and through this opening a current of steam must be introduced from a kettle, to the nozzle of which a tin tube is attached. The best apparatus for this purpose is the " croup kettle," invented by R. W. Parker, which supplies i