786 SIMPLE TUMOURS OF THE BREAST. by the conversion of the g'landular Bpaces into cysts, which frequently roach a large size, and often present intracystic growths which form the most marked feature of the tumour. These growths are formed of processes of the inter- stitial tissue of the tumour projecting into the cyst, and are covered with a layer of epithelium. They are often branched, and may in some cases com- pletely fill the cavity into which they grow. They may sprout from all sides at once, and then form a closely-packed foUated mass, without any clear evidence of the mode of growth remaining. In other cases a pedunculated mass springs up from a single point in the cyst-wall, and may project into it, still surrounded by a certain amount of fluid, or may completely fill it, dis- placing the fluid, and being surrounded by the cyst-wall as by a capsule. The stroma of the growth varies, but is generally more or less richly cellular. A tumour of this structure is generally known as a Gysto-mrcoma, but the same objections may be raised to this name as to that of Adeno- sarcoma, and all confusion may be avoided by calling it a Cysto-adenoma. In describing the clinical features of these tumours, it will be found that they differ greatly in their superficial characters. They agree, however, ia being perfectly encapsuled and distinct from the breast itself, and in showing no tendency to infiltrate the neighbouring parts or to recur in internal organs. The chief difference between them consists in their rate of growth and the size which they tend to assume. If the stroma is dense and fibrous, the tumour is usually small and of slow growth. If the stroma is richly cellular or embryonic, the rate of growth is relatively rapid, and the size of the tumour may be considerable. If large cysts develop from the glandular spaces, tlie rate of increase may be very rapid, and the size of the tumour eventually enormous. The close relationship of these different tumours is further showu by the fact that the same growth may in different parts present all the varieties of structure above described, and further, that there is strong reason for believing that a growth of one variety may, in the course of its develop- ment, gradually assume the characters of another. It is impossible here to enter into the question of the supposed origin of the adenomatous tumours of the breast. Bilh-oth states that^ they commence by an overgrowth of the connective tissue surrounding the acini and ducts. But in whatever point they commence, it is evident that in their subsequent development the growth of the epithelium is as essential a part of the proceffl as is that of the interstitial tissue. The presence of the epithelium-hned spaces is not a mere accident of the growth, but an essential feature of it. A view which seems very probable, at least in many cases, is that they arise lu small outlying lobules of the breast, which have failed to become connected up with the proper glandular apparatus. In some instances the relation of the tumour to the breast is in favour of Paget's view, that it arises as an intracystic growth, which gradually fills the cyst in which it lies, and thus appeare as solid encapsuled tumour. t , t^t p TT^Urm-Qitv The True Adenoma is extremely rare. In the Museum of Lniveisiiy College is a specimen of this kind of tumour, five inches diameter ana weighing four pounds. It was removed by R Quain from a ady aged26 after about 18 months' growth. At the time of the operation the pa ent was in the sixth month of pregnancy. The tumour wa. loosely encap "kd' not adherent to the gland or to the skin. Its section much resembles tl a or the pancreas to the naked eye, and microscopic examination shows