544 DEFORMITIES OF THE LEG AND FOOT. Annandale opened the joint and removed the prominent portion of the inn condyle with the saw. This bold operation was completely successful, b since the introdnctioii of simpler methods it has not been repeated. In 187 Og-ston performed, for the first time, the operation of sawing off' the innc. condyle obliquely by means of an Adams's saw (Fig. 574), introduced through a puncture made in the skin above the inner condyle. In 1878 Macewen modified the operation by removing a wedge-shaped piece of bone in the line of Ogston's saw-cut, but without penetrating so deeply as the articular cartilage, and Reeves at the same time suggested dividing the condyle with a chisel, stopping just short of the cartilage. In 1878 Barwell, regarding the deformity not merely as a lengthening of the inner condyle, but as an obliquity of the whole lower epiphysis, cut through the femur with a chisel a little above the epiphysis from the outer side, and subsequently after some weeks divided the tibia and fibula in the same way about one inch below the articular surfaces. Lastly, Macewen introduced the method of dividing the femur only, immediately above the epiphysis, and, at the present time, this method is almost universally adopted in preference to all others. It has the great advantage of not implicating either the epiphysis or the joint. The operation is thus performed : The limb should be laid on its outer side on a' sand bag, with the knee slightly flexed. A sharp-pointed scalpel is theu introduced on the inside of the thigh, " at a point where the two following lines meet,—one drawn transversely a finger's-breadth above the superior tip of the external condyle, and a longitudinal one drawn half an inch in front of the adductor magnus tendon." The incision is made vertically upwards, and should be about three-quarters of an inch in length, being slightly longer than the breadth of the osteotome to be used. The scalpel must be carried directly down to the bone, and the osteotome must be inserted along it as it is with- drawn and then turned so that its cutting edge is at right angles to the incision and to the shaft of the femur. The femur is next divided for moi'e than two-thirds of its thickness, the osteotome being taken in and out of the wound as little as possible. The mallet should have a heavy metal head and a short wooden handle. The cut in the bone must be parallel to the articular surface of the femur, which will be more obhque than natural, owing to the abnormal length of the inner condyle. The anterior and posterior layers of compact tissue must not be neglected, and when dividing the posterior extra caution must be used lest the osteotome should be driven into the popliteal vessels, an accident which has happened more than once. When two-thirds of the bone have been divided the remainder is fractured. If the patient be fully grown, and the bone of some size, two or three osteotomes may be used successively, the first being the thickest. The operation should be performed with all antiseptic precautions, and an antiseptic dressing should be applied after it. If the incision is made in the proper place no vessel requiring ligature is wounded. No sutures should be put into the wound unless it is of unusual size. The dressing may be left unchanged for one or two weeks, unless some discharge shows out from under it, as it may do at the end of the first twenty- four hours. After the operation the Hmb may be placed on any convenient splint for the first day or two, until it is seen if the dressing requires changnig, after which a plaster of Paris bandage should be applied. The results of the operation have been extremely satisfactory. Up to July 31st, 1884, Macewen had operated on 804 limbs belonging to 409 patients, varying in age from .