PHOSPHATIC DEPOSITS. 1029 Phosphatic Deposits.—The sediments and calculi containing phosphates occur in three distinct forms : 1. Triple or Ammonio-Magnesian Phosphate ; ■1. Phosphate of Lime ; and 3. Mixed Phosphates, consisting of a mixture of the preceding varieties. 1. The Triple or Ammonio-Magnesian phosphate is met with in all specimens of urine that are decomposing. It has no pathological significance, and is not associated with any special constitutional condition. It forms the chief part of the white crust which is deposited on all instruments tied into the bladder for any length of time, and on all stones which have given rise to severe cystitis. 2. The Amorphous Phosphate of Lime is deposited whenever the urine becomes alkahne, whether from the administration of alkaline drugs, from the presence of alkaline mucus in large quantities secreted from an inflamed bladder, or from the formation of carbonate of ammonium from decomposition. It very rarely forms a concretion alone. Excess of phosphates is met with in some forms of disease of the nervous system, but unless the urine be at the same time alkaline it does not form a deposit. Amorphous phosphates are very frequently passed a few hours after a meal, during the so-called " alkaline tide " in the urine, especially about eleven or twelve o'clock after a heavy late breakfast. This occurs more readily if the actual amount of phosphates be in excess. The causes of this condition are not very clear, but the alkahnity can easily be shown in many cases to be due to the presence of alkaline carbonates, the urine eflPervesciug vigorously on the addition of any acid. It is frequently associated with late hours and overwork. The patient is often much alarmed by the appeai'ance of the phosphates, as they usually come at the end of micturition, forming a white cloud in the stream, which he may mistake for seminal fluid. If the phosphates are very abundant, they often hang about in the urethra, and may cause severe smarting or burning pain after micturition. The condition is easily detected by examining the urine. The white heavy deposit looking almost like pus disappears immediately on the addition of a little acid. 3. Mixed phosphates are usually met with in all cases of disease of the bladder with ammoniacal urine, as in the cystitis following an injury to the spine, or in advanced cases of prostatic disease, Phosphatic Calculi.—Pure phosphatic calculi are very rare, if we exclude those soft concretions that form in a foul bladder. They are commonly com- posed of mixed phosphates in varying proportions. If the proportion is about two parts of the ammonio-inagnesian to one part of the phosphate of lime, it fnses readily into a bead before the blow-pipe, and hence has been called the fusible calculus. This calculus is friable, laminated, and has a chalky or earthy look. The ammonio-magnesian calculus is less common. It may be beautifully crystalline in structure. The phosphate of hme calculus is still more rare, as the amorphous phosphates seem to show but little tendency to agglomerate into a concretion. The few that have been met with are laminated, and harder than the other phosphatic stones. The Treatment of the deposit of phosphates is in most cases purely local, decomposition of the urine being prevented, and the bladder kept clean by those means that will be described in the chapter on cystitis. The passage of amorphous phosphates may be treated by avoidance of overwork and late hours, and by exercise in the open air, a few days of which treatment will