OPERATION ON HARD PALATE. 675 through Avith scissors. Eergusson divided these muscles as a preliminary step before paring the edges in all cases. The chances of success depend very much upon the absence of tension. The stitches should simply hold the parts in contact, not drag them together. It is safer, therefore, to adopt Sedillot's plan as being more efficient as well as easier of performance. Operation on Hard Palate.—It was formerly advised by some Surgeons, not to undertake the closure of the hard and soft palate at the same time, but it is now generally recognized that nothing is gained by dividing the operation into two parts. If the arch of the palate be very high, there may be sufficient tissue to meet in the middle line when separated from the bone and allowed to hang down; it is better, however, not to trust to this, but to make an incision on each side. The operation is performed in the following way in a case of com- plete cleft of the hard palate :—An incision is made fromi near the canine tooth parallel to the alveolar margin and about a third of inch, or less, internal to it, reaching backwards to a little beyond the last molar. When the cleft is narrow or the arch high, a smaller incision than this will suffice ; it may be lengthened afterwards if necessary to relieve tension. A second incision is then made along the edge of the cleft at the junction of the nasal and palatal mucous membranes. This incision must be carried backwards into the soft palate, from which a strip of mucous membrane must be removed, as in the operation for closure of clefts implicating that part only. The soft structures covering the hard palate are next raised from the bones with a curved periosteal elevator, shaped somewhat like an aneurism needle. In fact, if the proper instrument be not at hand, a strong aneurism needle will answer the pm'pose admirably. The periosteum should be raised with the flap as completely as. possible. Langenbeck pointed out that, if this be done, not only are the flaps thicker and stronger, but they may eventually throw out bone, and thus more efficiently close the gap in the hard palate. In raising the flaps, it will be found most convenient to introduce the elevator into the lateral incision and work inwards towards the cleft. Care must be taken to avoid those points anteriorly and, if possible posteriorly, where the blood-vessels and nerves enter. Another point of equal importance, as pointed out by Thomas Smith, is to separate the attachment of the soft palate to the hard with a sharp instrument. This is best done with curved scissors one blade of which is introduced between the soft structures of the hard palate and the bone, and the other blade through the cleft above the soft palate. If an attempt be made to tear this through with the elevator, the parts will be so bruised that union by first intention wiU not take place even if sloughing be avoided. When these structures have been well loosened on each side, the covering of the palate will be found to haug down as a curtain from the vault of the mouth—the two parts coming into apposition along the mesial line, or possibly overlapping. The edges are then brought into apposition by means of wire sutures introduced as before described and without any dragging. On this point great care is necessary. In cases in which the flaps do not meet readily, one or more deep sutures of thicker wire may be inserted further from the edges, so as to reheve the strain on the finer stitches ; or, if necessary, the lateral incisions may be continued back some way into the soft palate. Care must be taken also that the edges of the flap are not inverted so that X X 2