DISEASES OF THE LARYNX. 726 In simple Cfitarrhal laryngitis there is rarely any serious dyspnoea or spasm but 111 children there may be considerable difficulty in respiration, especially if the glottis becomes covered with dried mucus during sleep. There is expecto- ration of frothy mucus, sometimes tinged with blood, and the act of coughing IS accompanied by considerable pain. With the laryngoscope the intensely injected state of the mucous membrane of the larynx can be seen ; but this is not accomplished without difficulty, partly from the irritability of the fauces, and partly from the large amount of tenacious mucus which usually surrounds the glottis. In very severe cases the inflammation may extend to the sub- mucous tissue, and be accompanied by exudation into the loose areolar tissue, and the symptoms then gradually merge into those of the cedematous form oi' laryngitis presently to be described. Treatment.—The patient should be placed in a warm atmosphere, which should be kept moist by steam carried into the room from the spout of a kettle. This is especially important in children, to prevent the drying of the mucus during sleep. Hot fomentations may be applied to the throat, and the patient should be made to inhale the steam from a pint of hot water, to which a teaspoonful of compound tincture of benzoin has been added. A free purge will generally be found useful at the onset of the attack, and should there be much pain and cough small doses of opium should be administered. Should symptoms of dyspnoea appear, indicating a tendency for the inflamma- tion to assume the oedematous form, more active measures must be adopted, which will be described with that affection. Acute CEdematous Laryngitis may arise as an intensification of simple catarrhal inflammation, as an independent affection by extension from neigh- bouring parts, or as a complication of various chronic affections of the larynx. In many cases it seems to be erysipelatous in character, occurring as the result of exposure to the impure air of crowded hospitals, to sewer gas, or to the specific infection of erysipelas. In fact, it appears to be .at times epidemic, and in its pathological conditions to resemble closely phlegmonous erysipelas of the part, the mucous membrane becoming red, pulpy, and swollen, and the submucous tissue infiltrated with sero-purulent fluid. CEdematous laryngitis is occasionally met with in fevers, especially in scarlet fever, and it is predisposed to in some cases by Bright's disease. It is most commonly met with in adults, being very rare before the age of eighteen. The symptoms are usually well marked. The fauces are reddened, dusky, and swollen ; difficulty in swallowing is often an early and prominent symptom, and continues throughout ; dyspnoea, often of a spasmodic character, then appears, the lips becoming livid, the nostrils dilated, the features pale and bedewed with perspiration, the eyes watery and bloodshot, and the respiratory muscles are called into violent action ; gasping efforts at breathing and sudden fits of increased difficulty in inspiration come on ; at the same time the pulse is feeble, though it continues rapid ; and, unless efficiently relieved, the patient will speedily sink. The voice is at first hoarse, but is speedily lost, and there may be some tenderness about the larynx. The dyspnoea is usually peculiar m character in the intervals between the spasms. Inspiration is always more or less difficult, as the swollen parts fall together in a valve-like manner over the opening of the glottis. Expiration, on the other hand, may be compara- tively easy. The fatal result is frequently due directly to spasm. The spasms come on early, and are very apt to be brought on by speaking or swallowing ;