930 OPERATIONS ON THE ABDOMINAL VIHCERA. blic brim of the pelvis, and is bounded Ijy adhesions uniting to<rether the ciucum and small intestine. If allowed to extend it may burst into the treneral peritoneum, or may point in the anterior abdominal wall, or extend on to the thigh. In exceptional cases the pus may burst into the csecum, or, entering the pelvis, has been known to discharge itself into the vagina, rectum, or bladder in still more exceptional cases the abscess has crossed the middle line to the left iliac region, or has extended upwards behind the ascending colon, forming a large collection in the loin, which has been known to reach the diaphragm and even to perforate it. ' Of the complications of perityphlitic abscess the most important is diffuse peritonitis. This usually assumes a plastic form, the coils of intestine through- out the abdomen being glued together with firm yellowish lymph. There is as a rule, but little fluid in the cavity, usually only a few ounces in the pelvis. In rare instances pyemia has resulted from septic phlebitis and thrombosis of the iliac veins or their tributaries ; and from infection of some of the mesenteric veins pylephlebitis with suppuration in the liver has been known to occur. Symptoms.—On account of the varied nature of the inflammatory aflFections in the region of the caecum the symptoms of typhlitis diflfer considerably. Simple Typhlitis unattended with suppuration is by far the most common form, and as a rule recovery takes place under simple medical treatment. Its probable pathology has already been considered, and the symptoms must be shortly mentioned here, in order that they may be compared with those of the severe forms which require surgical treatment, and because in some cases an apparently mild case may end in suppuration. The attack begins more or less acutely, with pain and tenderness in the region of the csecum. The bowels are constipated, and there is often some vomiting, but this is not usually a marked symptom. There is commonly some elevation of temperature about the third or fourth day. A well marked sweUing is felt in the region of the ctBcum, the doughy character of which indicates that it is the result of fsecal accumulation. Treves has pointed out that " a careful digital examination per rectum, and careful palpation of the iliac fossa, do not reveal any swelhng that resembles a swollen appendix." After an attack of this kind the pain and tenderness and febrile disturbance subside in about a week, and the swell- ing rapidly and completely disappears. In comparatively rare instances the symptoms do not clear up in this satisfactory manner, but suppuration slowly occurs, the first evidence of this being the detection of a fixed indurated swelling above the outer part of Poupart's ligament. Perforation of the Vermiform Appendix.—The more severe forms of typhlitis, which are in almost all instances dependent upon perforation of the vermiform appendix, differ much in their intensity. In rare instances the symptoms closely resemble those resulting from perforation of the stomach or intestine, although perhaps less rapidly developed and attended with less collapse, and death rapidly follows from diffuse septic peritonitis. Jlore commonly the symptoms are as follows : The patient, usually a male under twenty years of age, has as a rule been in good health up to the moment of perforation, although occasionally there is a history of previous attacks milder in character. The first symptom is sudden pain, which may be referred to any part of the abdomen, but is usually felt chiefly in the umbilical region, perhaps shifting later to the position of the caecum. Often the pain occurs