452 DISEASES OF THE KNEE-JOINT. In order to keep the bonus in position some Surgeons recommend securing them with strong sutures of catgut or silver wire, whilst others prefer to peg them together. Morrant Ikkcr uses two sti-ong steel pins, which are passed obliquely through the skin into the tibia and are pushed on into the lower end of the femur. They are i-cmoved on the tenth or twelfth day. In most cases these special means of fixing the bones are unnecessary if an efficient splint is applied, but if the Surgeon prefer to use them he will find square ivory pegs useful. The bones are drilled obliquely, and after the pegs have Vjccn introduced the projecting ends may be cut off level with the surface of the bone. It is very important that all haemorrhage should be thoroughly aiTested before the wound is closed. In some cases no ligatures will be required, but usually two or three of the articular arteries furnish sufficient hfemorrhage to require restraint. The flap when laid down will often appear inconveniently long and thick, but it must not be curtailed, as it will eventually contract and fit well. As a rule drainage-tubes are not necessary, and the flap having no tendency to become displaced, only requires a few sutures to hold it in position. The result of the operation will depend mainly on the care taken in the after-treatment and in the successful prevention of decomposition in the discharges. It is essential for success that the limb should be kept at perfect rest for the first few weeks ; any apparatus, therefore, which requires complete removal for dressing the wound should be avoided. A narrow splint of japanned iron extending from the buttock to the heel will usually answer the purpose sufficiently well. It must be padded where it is in contact with the thiffh and the calf to such an extent that it does not touch the skin in the ham. It must be fixed in position by a flannel bandage above and below the knee, over which a firm plaster of Paris bandage must be applied. Heron "Watson recommends a soft iron bar, applied anteriorly, reaching from the groin to the toes. The upper part is straight for the thigh ; in the middle is an arch passing over the knee ; the lower part is straight for the leg, and bent at an angle forwards opposite the ankle to fit the dorsum of the foot. At the lower end opposite the ankle is a hook by which the limb can be suspended. This splint, having been properly padded, is fixed in position with a plaster of Paris bandage. Thomas's splint will also be found a very efficient apparatus, and may be secured above and below the knee with a plaster of Paris bandage. By any of these means the limb may be immovably fixed, while the knee is sufficiently exposed to allow of dressing. Whatever apparatus is chosen, it must be applied while the patient is still under chloroform before leaving the operating table. As soon as the wound is healed, the limb may be completely encased in a plaster of Paris or starched bandage till the bones are firmly united to each other. If proper attention be not paid to the position of the limb, bowing outwards is apt to take place. In order to prevent displacement, it has been proposed to divide the hamstring tendons ; this, however, is never necessary. The best dressing for an excision of the knee is that which requires changing lea?t frequently, and most efficiently prevents decomposition of the discharges. That described as suitable to cases of erasion or arthrectoiny (p. 448) can often be used with great advantage. Whatever dressing be used, the maintenance of perfect rest is absolutely essential. If this be attended to,