599 NASO-OEBITAL TUMOURS. which has the additional advantage of destroying any portions of the tumour left behind in the irre<>-ular cavities of this region. In other cases it may be possible to ex])ose the tumour sufficiently by Ollier's or Lawrence's operation. \Vhene\-er the upper pait of the pharynx is free, it should be plugged before counuoucing the operation by a sponge passed behind the soft palate in the way already described (p. r)l):>). It must not be r.oo large, lest it push the soft palate forwards against the tongue and impede respiration. Naso-Orbital Tumours commence in the upper part of the nasal fossa or in the ethmoidal cells, perforate the thin inner wall of the orbit and extend into the interior of that cavity, displacing the eye forwards, downwards, outwards. Vision is often but little, if at all, disturbed. The nostril on the affected side is blocked uj) by a polypoid growth. But the outline of the superior maxilla and of the hard palate is normal, no projection of the bone, in whole or in part, being perceptible. In fact, the disease and the deformity produced by it occupies a part of the face which is above a horizontal line drawn across the cheek on a level with the upper or orbital border of the superior maxilla. The disease always com- mences primarily in the nose or in the cavities contiguous to it, and the extension into the orbit may not occur for many months. It occurs at all periods of life, from early childhood to commencing old age. At first it may present the ordinary I 'haracters of a simple nasal polypus. This is removed, recurs rapidly, is again re- moved, with much hsemorrhage, and then the orbital implication is developed'. The Diagnosis of the naso-orbital from the naso-pharyngeal tumour may be made by' the displacement of the eyeball and absence of all tumour behind the soft l)alate in the first case ; whilst, in the uaso-pharyngeal, the orbit is intact, the ui)per part of the pharynx being occupied by maxilla possibly pushed bodily forwards or to tumour, the deformity is above the horizontal line of the upper edge of the superior maxilla ; in the naso-pharyngeal, it is below this. The nature of the tumom- varies. It is usually a large or small spiidle- '•elled sarcoma, but it may be a squamous carcinoma. Treatment.—The operation for the removal of naso-orbital tumour may be done as follows : An incision should be made from the root of the nose, directly down along the side and round the ala, so as to open the nasal cavity. The soft parts on the orbital side of this cut are then dissected down into the orbit. One blade of a cutting forceps being passed into the nose, along the outer border of the nasal bone, the articulation between this and the nasal process of the superior maxilla is cut through. An oblique cut upwards should then be made across the nasal process of the superior maxilla deeply into the orbit, the cut bones widely separated, and the nose turned completely over to the sound aide of the face. The tumour at the nasal side of the orbit may now be felt, the eye being held to the outer side and protected with a retractor Fig. 671.—Naso Orbital Tumouv. the groAvth, and the superior one side. In the naso-orbital