594 TUAIOUJiS OF THE NASAL FOSSM. Thus Surgeons commonly speak of the Bmiipi, the Soft, the (Idathious, or Miicom Polyp, as well as the Sarcomatous, or Fleshy, and the Maliynant Poh/ij. The term, however, should properly be confined to a soft and pendulous mucous growth ; the fleshy uud malignant polypi being mere varieties of fibrous, myeloid or other sarcomatous tiimoui's, springing from the bones ia the nasal fossae, or from the ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells. The true Mucous Nasal Polypus is a soft, moist, gelatinous tumour, of a greyish-yellow colour when lodged in the nasal fossae ; but when it descends into the anterior nares, or beyond them, and is exposed to the air, it becomes of a reddish-brown or purple tint, and somewhat shrivelled on the surface. It is usually lobulated, pedunculated, or bottle-shaped ; and not very vascular except at the root, where it is permeated by thin-walled vessels that bleed freely on the slightest touch. In structure it is soft and homogeneous to the naked eye. If cut across and squeezed a large quantity of sticky fluid, flows from it, and the mass becomes reduced to a small proportion of its original bulk. Mucous polypi are covered completely by mucous membrane with ciliated epithelium, the cilia of which may be seen in active movement under the microscope after removal. The mucous membrane may or may not contain glands ; occasionally the surface is pitted by the orifices of glands of considerable size. The tissue which forms the bulk of the tumour is composed of delicate bands of connective tissue separated from each other by an abundant mucous fluid. Amongst the fibres are numerous cells either rounded or presenting the stellate form found in true myxomatous tissue (see Myxoma, Vol. I., p. 1026). The whole mass is abundantly supplied with vessels. Occasionally polypi are found growing from the lower part of the nares, covered with tesselated epithelium. The tumour may grow from any point of the surface of the turbinate and ethmoid bones, and has indeed, though very rarely, been observed to project into the nose from the frontal sinuses and antrum. Polypi most frequently grow from the middle spongy bone, sometimes from the inferior turbinate bone, and in rare cases they are said to have been seen springing from the roof of the nares, lint never from the septum. They are usually numerous and of all sizes ; as they increase they commonly extend forwards into the anterior nares, but, Avhen large, they may be seen to reach into the pharynx, hanging down behind the palate. The Symptoms occasioned by the presence of nasal polypi depend on the interference with respiration and speech which they occasion. _ Respiration through the affected nostril is impeded, the patient being unable to blow through it when directed to do so ; and his speech is thick and nasal. There is snuffling with mucous discharge from the nostril; and all these symptoms are worse in damp than in dry weather. On examining the interior of the nose with the nasal speculum (Fig. 668), and then directing the patient to blow down, the lower end of the polyp may be distinctly seen, and, if large, will descend to a level with or even beyond the nasal aperture. By the introduction of a probe, the size and extent of the tumour, together with the position of its pedicle, may be readily ascertained. As it grows, it impresses changes on the shape of neighbouring bones, producing expansion and flatten- ing of the nose ; and, interfering with the flow of tears down the nasal duct, occasions a watery state of the eyes, which, together with the change or shape in the features, and the peculiar character of voice and respiration, may