4 G 2 ^ FALSE PASSAGES. dilatation. The symptoms are at first those just described, the patient siiffcr- ino- from a rio-or, with rapid elevation of temperature, dry skm, and vomiting. The secretion of urine entirely ceases, or at most a few drops darkly stained with blood escape. The patient usually dies in from two to three days, unless the secretion returns. In these cases the kidneys are usually found more oi less extensively affected with chronic interstitial inflammation ; but cases have been recorded in which the microscope revealed but little change. They are usually gorged with blood. The condition would seem to arise from reflex nervous disturbance of the kidney, but the pathology of the process is very obscure. The Treatment consists in dry cupping over the loms and hot-air baths. Lar^e warm water enemata, with a view of " fomenting the kidneys, have been suggested. The bowels must be freely opened by the compound jalap l)Owder. Possibly in some cases pilocarpine hypodermically in doses of from to J of a grain might be of use. Haemorrhage, which is sometimes rather profuse, may follow the introduc- tion of a catheter, especially if the stricture be congestive, and the instrument' employed small. It generally ceases of itself; but, if it be troublesome, the application of cold will check it. The Inflammation about the urethra and in the testes that occasionally occurs during the treatment of stricture, is best guarded against by not using too large catheters, and by directing the patient to abstain from much exercise during the time of their introduction. raise Passages are occasioned by the instrument passing out of the urethra through its coats into the surrounding tissues. They are especially apt to occur in tight bridle-strictures, when a small instrument is being used, more especially if the direction of the constriction be somewhat oblique, so that the point of the sound is thrown against the side of the canal (Fig. 911). The extent and situation of a false passage necessarily vary according to the posi- tion of the stricture ; and the danger is usually in proportion to its depth. The false passage usually takes a direction downwards and to one side of the urethra. If the stricture be far forward, it may run in the corpus spongiosum ; but if it be in the usual situation, it may perforate the lateral lobe of the pro- state, or run between this and the rectum, being unable to extend upwards on account of the rigid nature of the structures in this situation. When the false passage merely perforates the corpus spongiosum, running parallel to the urethra, and opening again into the canal, or when, perforating a portion of the prostate, it enters the bladder, it is not necessarily attended with much danger; but when it enters the areolar tissue between the bladder and the rectum, admitting urine into the recto-vesical space and about the neck of the bladder, then the most serious consequences, such as inflammation and abscess, are apt to ensue, and may prove fatal. At the moment when a false passage is made during the introduction of an instrument, by the Surgeon using too much force or pressing in the wrong direction, he feels the point make a sudden slip, which the plane of the handle shews to be to one side of the urethra. The patient complains of severe pain, and is often conscious of a laceration ; there is a grating or rough sensation communicated by the tissues against which the instrument has passed ; and though it have entered deeply, it will be found not to have reached the bladder. On the Surgeon introducing his finger into the rectum, he probably feels the point of the instrument in the areolar tissue between the gut and the bladder;