1 i2or The GENERAL RESULTS OF THE TREATMENT OF STRICTURE. lithotomy position, AYheelhouse's staff is passed down to the stricture ,.nd of this is about the size of a No. 8 catheter ; on one side it is flattened aid oTOOved, and on the other it forms a small blunt hook, with which the nppet- end of the " button-hole " incision in the urethra may be drawn upwards, rhe staff being passed and held with the grooved side forwards, the burgeon .nts down upon it by an incision about l|in. long in the median line and opens the urethra just in front of the stricture. The staff is now pushed out of the wound and turned round, so that the small hook is forwards ; it is then drawn upwards so as to catch in the upper angle of the opening, and in this way the urethra is put on the stretch and steadied. If the special staff be not at hand the end of a catheter can be cut down on with almost equal ease. The edges of the slit in the urethra are then seized m artery- forceps and lield apart so as to expose the interior of the canal, which can be readily recognized by its smooth shining surface. It will often be found to be convenient to pass a silk suture through each side by which the edges may be held apart, as the forceps are rather apt to get in the way. Oozing having been allowed to cease, the aperture leading to the stricture will usually be found without very great difficulty. The chief trouble in many cases arises from the constant trickling of blood from the upper part of the wound. ^ This may be. arrested by plugging it with a small sponge, or by the application of water, at a temperature of about 140° F., which is usually more efficient than ice. Another difficulty may arise from the urethra having been opened too far above the stricture, under which circumstances the incision must be pro- longed downwards. If a false passage have been opened instead of the urethra it is recognized by the absence of the smooth pink mucous membrane. The orifice of the stricture must be sought for with a fine probe. Wheelhouse used a small probe-pointed director. In some cases the small director used in slitting up the canaliculus will be found to pass when other instruments have failed. In seeking the true orifice of the stricture every depression must be carefully explored without force. Pressure above the pubes will often cause a slight escape of urine by which the proper orifice may be recognized. When the opening is found and the probe passed, the stricture must be divided along it with a fine knife or tenotome. A small gorget is then passed through the stricture, and along this a full-sized catheter can easily be guided into the bladder. It must be tied in and retained for a few days. The wound may be wiped out with a strong solution of chloride of zinc and afterwards sprinkled with iodoform and filled with iodoform-wool, which may be left undisturbed till the third day, when healthy granulation will usually be found to have commenced. This operation requires care and patience, but it is easier and safer than any other. In a few rare instances in which failure has attended every other means of passing an instrument through the stricture, suprapubic cystotomy has been performed and a catheter passed from above. General Results of the Treatment of Stricture.—Whether it is or is not possible permanently to cure a stricture, is a question which has been much debated. The advocates of the various modes of treatment, whether forcible dilatation, internal urethrotomy, external urethrotomy, or electrolysis, have often asserted that by the means they adopt a stricture can be really cured, so that the patient is rid of his disease for ever, and need fear no return. The general opinion, however, of those who have studied this question care- VOL. II, 4 H