I SOLID TUMOUES OF SPERMATIC CORD. 1263 m Darts where indeed, it may almost be semi-fluctuating, though in others it \ 111:1::^^.kn;bbed. This alteration in feel is partly due to sottemng of the substance of the tumour, and P-'tly^o/^s malangMts way^^^^^^^^ d tunica albuginea. The scrotum is much distended, ^^^^ened, and p^^^^^^^^^ , and become^s covered by a network of tortuous vems ; the cord " D somewhat enlarged, hard, and knotty. As the disease advances, the scrotum becomes adherent at some of the softened parts, ulceration takes Pjace, and a fungus projects, which presents all the characteristic signs of f f ^f/J it does not commonly happen, however, that the disease is allowed to go so fa : as this before removal. The pain is not very severe at first, bu after a time ^ assumes a lancinating character, extending up the cord and into he loms « Treatment.-The only treatment of any avail m cancer ot the testicle is 9 the removal of the diseased organ. This operation is not performed so much J with the view of curing the patient of his disease, which will probably return ' in the lymphatic glands or in some internal organ, as of affording temporary i relief from the suffering and encumbrance of the enlarged testicle, it is , therefore an operation of expediency, and should be done only m tnose cases ' in which the disease is limited to the testicle, the cord being free and the 1 glands not evidently involved ; so that, if recurrence take place, it may not ; be a very speedy one. An Undescended Testis may become the seat of a tumour, just as it may be affected by inflammation. The combination of malposition of the organ and a tumour is necessarily rare. But its possible occurrence must be borne ' m mind by the Surgeon, as it may lead to the necessity of an operation for the removal of the diseased mass from the inguinal canal. Cases of this kind are recorded by Storks and J. M. Arnott. The tumour in the first case was as large as a cocoa-nut; in the second as a man's fist. Both were medullary. The operation consists in exposing the tumour by a free incision—if necessary, carried through the tendon of the external oblique—opening the tunica vagi- nalis, enucleating the mass, and tying with care the shortened spermatic cord, which would probably be the most difficult part of the operation. The possible co-existence of a congenital hernia must be remembered. But it is remarkable that peritonitis does not appear to be the chief danger of this operation. In neither of the cases above referred to did it occur, the patient dying of erysi- pelas in Arnott's case ; of recurrent cancer, a year after the operation, in that of Storks. SOLID TUMOURS OF THE SPERMATIC CORD. Fatty Tumours are not very uncommon. They most commonly occur as small isolated masses near the inguinal ring. They grow slowly and are of no importance except from their resemblance to hernia. The tumour can be pushed through the external ring, but it has no impulse on coughing, nor is there the characteristic slip and gurgle of a hernia as it goes back. Large . lipomata invading the scrotum as Avell as the cord have also been recorded. Fibromata and Myxomata of the Cord have been recorded, but are merely pathological curiosities. Sarcomata have also been met with in this region.