TONSILLITIS. diseased tooth. These conditions have already been described in the chapter on Diseases of the Jaws. Epithelioma is far from common. Eiirhondroma, Fibroma, mid rariom forms of Sarcoma, have also been met with in this region, Soft Palate.—The most common disease of the soft palate is syphilitic ulceration (Vol. I., p. lUrd). Tuberculous ulceration is much less common and is generally met with in children. It usually commences at the free edge of the bladder and gradually spreads with the production of an extensive ulcer, having a pale, feebly granulating surface, and a sharply defined margin. Considerable destruction of the soft palate may result. The treatment is unsatisfactory. Lactic acid has in some cases been used with success ; it is painted over the ulcerated surface in a solution the strength of which may be gradually increased from 20 to 80 per cent. Tumours of the soft palate are occasionally met with, and their nature has been specially studied by Stephen Paget, who has collected and analysed the records of a considerable number of such cases. Dermoid cysts have been met with in this region. They are always situated in the middle line, and are supposed to be formed by inclusion of the epithelial layer during development. Si7nple mucous cysts are very rare. Polypoid and ivarty yroivths are not very uncommon. Adenomata form the largest class of tumours met with in this situation. They vary somewhat in structure, some closely resembling the adeno-fibroma of the breast, and others being composed of embryonic or ! myxomatous tissue surrounding groups of epithelial cells, sometimes forming distinct cell-nests. They are, however, always simple, and usually distinctly encapsnled, so that they can readily be shelled out after the mucous membrane covering them has been divided. They are of slow growth, and usually painless ; they are round or oval in form, snaooth on the surface and firm in consistence. They are most common about middle life. In a case under the care of C. Heath the tumour, which was easily shelled out, measured one inch and a half in diameter. Sarcomata are rare, and are usually round or spindle- celled. Squamous carcinoma is also rare. It presents nothing peculiar. Uvula.—Elongation of the Uvula.—The uvula occasionally becomes elongated and hangs down into the pharynx, so as to touch the epiglottis and sensitive mucous membrane in its neighbourhood, giving rise to great irritation of the fauces, or to a tickling or spasmodic cough, which can be cured only by removing the pendulous body. This little operation may be readily done after the application of cocaine by seizing the end of the uvula with a pair of polypus-forceps, and snipping it across near the root with a long pair of scissors. Swallowing is less painful after the operation if the uvula be cut in a slanting direction, so that the raw surface looks backwards. It is better "not to remove the whole of the uvula. If this be done, throat irritation is apt to continue. I have been most satisfied with the result of those cases in which a stump from a quarter to a third of an inch in length has been left. The soreness of the throat after the operation may be relieved by sucking ice, or a marsh-mallow lozenge. Tonsils.—Tonsillitis or Quinsy.—The tonsils are not unfrequently acutely inflamed. They then become swollen and red, with much pain in the side of the neck and car, increased by any attempt at swallowing ; there is usually a profuse secretion of saliva, and a good deal of swelling under the angles of the jaw ; the tongue is coated with thick pasty mucus, and the voice is thick and nasal. The disease comes on suddenly, often accompanied by