SYPHILITIC STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM. 955 accident that would probably occasion fatal peritonitis. «/|;^^^^^^^^^^^ duction of bougies, the bowels must be kept regular by means of laxatives "e occtio^ial ^ of enemata. If much pain or ^ by their use, opium should be administered internally or m the form o sup pos U)i^s Though a simple stricture of the rectum may be much relieved by fhe use of bougies, it is seldom, I think, cured by this means ; there being a great tendency in it to contract as soon as the treatment is ^iscontinued^ ^ Dilatation may sometimes conveniently be effected by the use of Todd , dilator (Fig. 819). This is introduced closed, covered with a thm mdia-iubbei sheath, so as to avoid nipping the mucous membrane. It is then expanded to the required extent by pressing on a trigger m the handle. Dilatation may In very obstinate cases of stricture m which simple dilatation has failed linear proctotomy may sometimes be practised with good results. This is done by freely dividing the stricture, the wall of the rectum below it, and the sphincter with a probe-pointed bistoury. The division should be made exactly in the middle line behind. Bleeding may be arrested by ligatures, and the wound should be plugged with strips of gauze, and subse- quently irrigated daily with warm boric acid lotion. If complete obstruction occur, purgatives must on no account be given. An endeavour should be made to relieve the patient by the use of enemata of olive-oil, and the strength should be supported by a diet that is nourishing, at the same time that it leaves little or no sohd residue. Opium in small doses frequently given will relieve the pain and prevent sickness ; under this treatment the bowels may eventually act after a considerable lapse of time. In a case to which reference has already been made, the obstruction gave way after it had lasted for about five weeks, some hardened fgeces with bloody mucus being discharged and speedily followed by abundant motions. Should the obstruc- tion, however, continue, and the patient consequently be in imminent danger of death, colotomy should be performed. Syphilitic Stricture of the Rectum is met with usually within easy reach of the finger, and chiefly in young women under thirty, rarely in men. The pathological changes to which it is due have already been described in the Chapter on Syphilis, Yol. I., p. 1155. The fact that this disease is almost exclusively met with in women has led to the idea that it may be due to direct infec- tion of the bowel or to extension of disease from the vagina, but there is no evidence to support this view-. It is always a tertiary affection, and is seldom associated with any affection of the vagina. It is almost exclusively met with amongst the poorer classes, and in hospital practice. To the finger introduced into the bowel it feels as if there were an irregular thickened cicatricial constriction of the mucous membrane. This may be limited to the lower part of the bowel, but frequently extends beyond the reach of the finger. The examination causes the patient the most intense pain, as there is often ulceration in the constricted region. Sometimes under proper treatment the ulcers may be made to heal, and then the dense irregular cicatricial bands alone will be felt. There are usually evidences Fig. 819.—Rectum- Dilator.