258 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. bone (Haversian canals). AVe have before seen that tlie same changes occiu- in the formation of calhis in the repair of a fracture (Vol. I., p. 529), but in these circumstances cartilage occasionally appears before the development of bone. This is never met with in osteoplastic periostitis arising from other causes. Billroth is of opinion that the new bone developed in osteoplastic periostitis is not always formed solely from the periosteum. That it is so in those cases in Avhich the compact tissue beneath is dead is of course evident, but in other cases he believes that granulation tissue sprouting out of the openings of the PTaversian canals takes part in the process. In the union of fractures the callus is partly formed from the injured soft parts superficial to the periosteum. Gmnmatons Periostitis and the other varieties of inflammation of the periosteum resulting from syphilis have already been described. (Vol. I,, p. 1157.) Any localized chronic inflammatory swelling of the periosteum, whether simple or syphilitic, and whether accompanied by the formation of new bone or not, is commonly termed a node. Tuberculous Periostitis is the result of the deposit of tubercle in the deeper layers of the membrane. In the majority of cases the tuberculous tisfcue undergoes caseation and a chronic abscess follows. The subjacent bone is usually sooner or later affected, so that it may often be impossible to determine the exact starting-point of the disease. Tuberculous periostitis is not common in the long bones of the limbs, but is met with in the ribs and in many cases of tubercle of the spine. Inflammatory Processes affecting the Compact Tissue of a bone.— The compact tissue of bone is composed of lamellse arranged for the most part concentrically around the Haversian canals. Beneath the periosteum the lamellEB lose their concentric arrangement and lie parallel to the surface. Between the lamellge lie the bone-corpuscles in the lacuna3 and from these the fine canaliculi pass through the bony tissue. The Haversian canals aix- smallest near the surface, and- gradually increase in size towards the deeper ])arts, so that the compact and the cancehous tissue gradually merge into each other without any sharp line of distinction between them. Each Haversian canal, except the very smallest, contains a small artery and vein, a flattened ymphatic vessel, and a pale nerve-fibre, surrounded by a small amount of delicate connective tissue containing branched cells. There is no reason to believe that the bone-corpuscles take any active part in the inflammatory processes in bone ; all the changes observed proceed from the Haversian canals. The nature of the tissue in which the inflammation is taking place necessarily causes some modification in the phenomena. Exudation and migration of the cor- puscles occur as in other structures, but the amount is somewhat limited by the unyielding nature of the surrounding tissue. The swelHng of the dehcate connective tissue in the Haversian canals will moreover tend to compress the vessels, and thus in acute inflammation of compact bone death of the affected part is very prone to occur from arrest of the flow of blood through it. Should this not happen, we see the same changes occurring as in other tissues ; the new cells increase in number and the original tissue disappears beiore thein. In bone this process is necessarily slow on account of the density of the structure, but ultimately a portion of the solid bone may be as completely