VOL. II. DIVISION FOUKTH DISEASES OF TISSUES. CHAPTEK XXXVII. SUEGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. The various aflFections peculiar to the skin, such as eczema, scabies, impetigo, acne, lepra, psoriasis, &c., fall within the province of the Surgeon, and are commonly treated by him in practice ; but, as the consideration of these would necessarily lead into the whole subject of Dermatology, the limits of this work would not allow me to discuss so extensive and special a branch of Surgery. I must therefore content myself with the consideration of some of those affections of the skin, which, requiring operative interference, may be more properly looked upon as within the scope of the present Treatise. These diseases may be considered under the several heads of Diseases of the Skin itself, including the various forms of non-malignant ulceration, and the malignant ulcers and tumours, and Diseases of the Appendages of the Skin, as the nails. We have already in Chapter VI. considered the ordinary non- malignant ulcers of the skin, and in Chapter XXXIV. some of the simple tumours that occur in connexion with the tissue. DISEASES OF THE APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. Diseases of the Nails.—The nails may become diseased, as the result of mechanical injury, or as a part of some general cutaneous affection. A violent blow or pinch often partly loosens the nail and causes an extrava- sation of blood beneath it. It then becomes black and slowly separates. No treatment is required beyond protecting the part by some convenient covering. In psoriasis the nails are not unfrequently affected ; the appearances vary much, but usually the nail becomes opaque and thickened, and as the result of its brittleness tends to split at its free end and may become completely separated from its matrix. Similarly the nails may become brittle and fissured in connexion with squamous syphilides as the result of the matrix becomino- inflamed. Atrophy of the Nails may occur as the result of any condition, local or