744 OPERATIONS OF THE AIR-TUBE. not only arrest the bleeding, but, if allowed to hang down on each side l.eln to hold the wound open. ' '^M^ If it be intended to open the trachea above the isthmus of the thyroid l.oH. the incision must be commenced at the upper border of the cricoid c-artill' and earned downwards exactly in the middle line for an inch to an inoh a^H a halt, according to the age and size of the patient and the amount of subcu taneous fat After dividing the integuments, the interval between the sterno" hyoid muscles must be found, and these drawn apart. Any veins that present themselves should be avoided as carefully as possible, and held on one sid. bv the assistant, who has charge of the blunt hooks. After the muscles hav'e been drawn apart, the isthmus of the thyroid body comes into view, and above It IS the fascia that supports it and covers the trachea. Tlie lower border of the cricoid cartilage should then be felt for; it can be recognized by its forming a slight projection above the level of the trachea, which can be readily felt with the finger-nail. If the parts are well in view, the trachea may be best exposed by the plan recommended by Bose. The layer of fascia m front of the trachea which supports the isthmus is picked up with a pair of forceps at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, and carefully divided transversely for a distance sufficient to admit the handle of the scalpel beneath It, by means of which the isthmus is pushed downwards, and the upper three rings of the trachea clearly exposed. The trachea is then transfixed with a sharp hook and drawn forwards to steady it while the opening is made. It is usually recommended to insert the hook in the middle line, immediately below the cricoid cartilage, but the plan devised by J. Marshall will be found more convenient. In this, the hook is inserted about an eighth of an inch from the middle line parallel to the intended incision, its point being made to reappear so as to puncture the trachea in two places, and to get a firm hold on it. The opening in the trachea, is then made, the knife being held by the blade about half an inch from its point, so that it is not possible to transfix the trachea and puncture the oesophagus. The incision must be made fi'om below upwards, and should include two, or, if necessary, three rings of the trachea. The tube may now easily be inserted by di-awing one lip of the opening well forwards with the hook that has been inserted parallel to it, while the other is depressed with the end of the tube. If this be done, it slips in without any difficulty. It must then be retained by tapes round the neck. If the trachea is to be opened leloiv the isthmus of the thyroid body, the incision must commence immediately below the cricoid cartilage, and be carried downw^ards for at least an inch and a half. The muscles are exposed and separated as in the previous operation. In this situation the sterno- thyroids will probably come into view after the sterno-hyoids have been drawn aside. The isthmus, having been exposed, must be drawn upwards with a blunt hook. At this stage of the operation, the large veins forming the inferior thyroid plexus must be carefully avoided, and if the wound be very deep it is safer to use the scalpel to a limited extent, dilating the deeper parts of the wound with its handle or wnth a director. In young children the thymus gland will appear in the lower part of the incision, and require to be pushed downwards. Opening the trachea leMnd the isthmus is seldom necessary, but should it be unavoidable the tissue of the thyroid body may be divided with but little