404 DISEASE OF THE SAC RO-1 LI AC JOINT. Sacro-iliac Disease in its early stage. Fig. 562.—Sacrum. Fig. 563.—Ilium iliac vein was i'uuud on the right side, resulting from a small laceration of tlie upper part of the viiginal wall. In addition to this there was an abscess beneath the periosteum of the right iliac fossa, which had extended inwards to the hollow of the sacrum and into the right sacro-iliac joint, the cartilage of which was eroded. In the chronic forms, with which we are here solely concerned, the disease is undoubtedly tuberculous in nature. It may commence primarily in the pelvic bones, in the articular structur* of the sacro-iliac junction, or between the lateral epiphysial plate of the sacrum and the body of the bone, which do not unite till the twenty-fifth year. The annexed drawings (Figs. 562, 5G3), taken from a boy who died of tetanus from the irritation of an issue, six weeks after the commence- ment of disease in the sacro-iliac articulation, show erosion of the cartilages in patches. The next drawing (Fig. 564), taken from a man about 30 years of age, who died of this affection after nearly two years of suffering, sliows the disease in its most advanced stage. The bones were bare and rough, but not necrosed ; they were completely deprived of their incrusting cartilage. There was no deep erosion of them, no cavity, no sign of tuberculous infiltration ; no evidence, in fact, of primary osseous disease. The hgamentous structures of the articulations were only partially destroyed. The interosseous Hga- ment especially was in a sound state ; it had preserved to a great extent its firmness, and required to be divided with the scalpel in order to expose the interior of the joint and the opposed osseous surfaces. The structures that appeared chiefly to have suffered were the synovial and cartilaginous elements of the joint. The synovial membrane is normally but im- perfectly developed in the sacro- iliac articulation, but it probably undergoes changes analogous to those which take place in the tuberculous disease of other joints. The Symptoms of sacro-iliac disease arrange themselves in five distinct groups—viz., Pain, Swelling, Lameness, Alteration in the Shape ot the Limb, and Abscess. These we must study separately. _ ^ . . , , 1 Pain —One of the earliest symptoms is a sensation of painful weakness at tiie lower part of the back and sacrum, increased by movements of the body in walking, stooping, or even in standing, giving the sensation as if the body Fig. 564.—Sacro-iliac Disease, more advanced.