ANEURISM. commonly published as the successful ones, and partly because sufficient time has hardly yet elapsed since the general adoption of absorbable ligatures and antiseptic treatment to enable us to form a correct conclusion as to the diminution in the death-rate that may be effected by their use. Statistics published by Bellingbani in 1851 (Med.-Chir. Trans, Vol. XXXIV.), and by Holmes in his well known Lectures on fcbe Treatment of Aneurism in 1874 showed clearly that though the treatment of popliteal aneurism by compression' IS attended with scarcely any direct danger to the patient, it very frequently bills to cure the disease. On the other hand, ligature of the femoral artery is far more certain as a means of cure though necessai-ily attended with more direct danger irom the operation, a danger which the statistics show has progressively decreased during the last thirty years. The latest statistics on this subject are those published in 1883 by Barwell in his admirable article on Aneurism in the International Encyclopaedia of Surgery. He has there collected 148 cases of popliteal aneurism treated by compression between 1870 and 1880. Of these, 68 were successful, while 80 ended in failure. Of the unsuccessful cases, 57 submitted to ligature, 2 went away unrelieved, 4 suffered amputation, and 6 died. Of the 6 deaths, 2 occurred from rupture of the sac, 2 from " thrombosis," 1 from gangrene, and in one the cause was not stated. During the same period, 67 cases of ligature occurred in six of the chief London hospitals. Of these, 10 died. If these are further sub- divided, it will be found that out of 32 cases which occurred in the first half of the decade, 7 died and 2 underwent subsequent amputation ; while from 1875 to 1879 inclusive, 35 cases occurred, with 3 deaths and no amputations. Whether this great improvement is merely accidental, or is the result of the improvement in the material used as the ligature and in the treatment of the wound, remains to be seen, but there is great reason to believe that the latter is the true explanation. If compression fail, ligature may be applied in some cases with a better prospect of success than if compression had not previously been tried, that treatment having caused the collateral circulation to enlarge, and thus lessened the tendency to gangrene. If, however, we take the general average of those cases that have been submitted to ligature after the failure of com- pression, we shall find that the result is not so satisfactory as when the ligature has been employed as the primary method of treatment. Thus I find that, out of 40 cases in which the ligature was employed after com- pression had failed, there were 16 deaths. Thi« is probably not so much due to the previous employment of compression, as to the same causes in- terfering with the consolidation of the tumour after the ligature that had prevented the success of the compression treatment. With regard to the facility of ligaturing an artery such as the femoral, after compression has been tried and has failed, it must be admitted that the difficulties are in- creased. The sheath of the vessels is apt to become thickened, and the artery and vein are perhaps less easily separable than when pressure has not previously been employed. It should also not be forgotten that in some cases, as when aneurism is comphcated with heart disease, or occurs in a very broken and unhealthy constitution, in which the operation necessary for ligature would be scarcely or not at all admissible, compression may safely be employed. After carefully considering the relative merits of the two plans of treatment,