CARIES OF SriNE: TREATMENT OF ABSCESS. 495 assistance of an instrument maker. Its only disadvantages are that ifc cannot be taken otf to wash the patient, and that it is apt to become foul and sores may form beneath it. In adults the plaster jacket, or one of leather or poro- plastic should always be conjoined with^the recumbent position. After all acute symptoms have subsided, the poroplastic or leather jacket will be found much superior to the old-fashioned steel supports. Counter-Irritatioxi by means of the actual cautery is occasionally useful in the treatment of spinal caries. The cases most likely to be benefited in this way are those in which the disease occurs in adults, and is accompanied by much pain in the early stages. The cautery should be drawn in a line on either side of the affected part of the spine. Nothing can be more unscientific or indicate a more profound ignorance of pathology than to employ counter- irritation after abscess has once formed. The ordinary constitutional treatment that is adopted in strumous diseases must be employed in these cases. Much benefit will be derived from the use of cod-hver oil, iron, the phosphates, and above all good air—country or sea. As in all other cases where bone is diseased, at least three years must be devoted to the cure of a case of angular curvature. But that cure consists only in the preservation of life, not the removal of deformity, which is necessarily permanent. Treatment of Spinal Abscess.—The formation of abscess should, if possible, be prevented by the employment of the means above described. Should suppuration unfortunately take place, the danger is greatly increased. A chronic abscess connected with caries of the spine should never be allowed to point or burst spontaneously. It must be opened or the pus evacuated in -some way as soon as it has arrived at a point at which it can be clearly recognised and safely reached. The various methods of treatment of chronic abscess have already been considered in Vol. I., p. 263 et seq., so that it will be necessary now merely to indicate the chief considerations which determine the Surgeon in his choice. Simple aspiration is now rarely employed, for although in a certain number of cases the pus does not reaccumulate, the method is too uncertain to ,be recommended. It may, however, be sometimes useful to aspirate a very large abscess once or twice before opening and draining it, so that the cavity may shrink and the early discharge be less profuse. Aspiration is a much more efficient method if, after the pus has been withdrawn, the abscess cavity is flushed out with water sterilized by boiling, and injected with iodoform ■emulsion (Vol. I., p. 264). A far more useful method of treatment, and one which should be followed in the large majority of cases, consists in opening the abscess, thoroughly flushing out and scraping its inner surface, so as to remove as much as possible of the caseous material which it contains, and then completely closing the wound. This plan is available for almost all -cases, except those in which the abscess is on the point of bursting. A short incision is made into the abscess in such a position that all parts of its cavity oan best be reached. Thus for psoas abscess the opening should be made •close above Poupart's hgament external to the line of the vessels. Before the pus escapes the finger should be introduced so that the cavity may be explored while its walls are still tense. In dorsal or lumbar abscesses the finger may possibly be made to reach the diseased spine, and if a sequestrum be felt it might be removed. The pus is next evacuated, and then the cavity is flush3d