RETENTION OF URINE. 1203 under its influence it is seldom, indeed, that the catheter will not pass. If a very small catheter only can be introduced, it often happens that the eye is blocked by a clot of blood, and the Siu-geon may think he has not entei-ed the bladder. This difficulty is overcome by applying an aspirator to the catheter, which will immediately cleai' it if it be really in the bladder. _ It is wiser, therefore, always to have that instrument at hand when attempting to relieve a case of retention of urine. After the catheter has been passed into the bladder it should be left there, being tied in by means of tapes passing from its rings under the patient's thighs, to a bandage that is passed round his waist A free purge may be administered on the following day, and the patient should be confined to bed. The catheter will be found to be loosened at the end of forty-eight hours, when it should be withdrawn, and the cure by dilatation proceeded with in the usual way. There ai-e two conditions which in retention of urine may eventually call for operative interference. The first is the necessity for very frequent intro- duction of the catheter, owing to an irritable state of the bladder. In these cases, it may eventually be thought safer to puncture the bladder and to estabhsh a direct opening either through the perinteum or above the pubes, rather than subject the patient to the constant terror of repeated catheterism, which will end by exhausting him. Every act of catheterism inflicts a certain shock to the system, greater in some, less in others ; and if this have to be repeated every three or four hours, less danger will probably result from punc- ture of the bladder than from the frequent use of the instrument. In these cases the patient cannot allow it to be tied in for the same reason, that of extreme irritability, which necessitates its repeated introduction. The second condition that calls for operation is a diflFerent one, viz. the necessity of relieving retention of urine. For if the Surgeon be unable to introduce a catheter in the ordinary way through the stricture, relief must be given to the over-distended bladder in some other way, lest it or the urethra burst, and extravasation of urine occur. The bladder may be emptied in three ways: 1. By Aspiration ; 2. By making an Opening into the Urethra behind and. through the Stricture ; and, 3. By Puncturing the Bladder above the Pubes. Forcible catheterism, that is to say, passing a small metal instrument down to the stricture and attempting to drive it on by main force into the bladder, is an unsurgical and dangerous procedure, which should under no circum- stances be adopted. Puncture of the bladder through the rectum is also an available method of treatment in these cases which had better be abandoned. It is no doubt easy of performance, but it is attended with obvious incon- veniences and not a few dangers. Among the latter may be mentioned septic cystitis, urinary infiltration, pelvic abscess and peritonitis. I also had a case under my care in 1859 in which a widespread emphysematous condition extending to the nates and thighs was produced by the escape of rectal flatus into the areolar tissue after the cannula was removed. The cannula had been in position for five days, and the patient died on the third day after its removal. 1. The use of the Aspirator is on the whole the simplest and safest means of affording immediate relief in a case of retention of urine due to stricture of the urethra, in which the Surgeon altogether fails to pass an instrument into the bladder. The perforating trochar of the aspirator should :be passed 4 H 2