OVARIOTOMY :-''iTS HISTORY. ^289 suitable svrin-e, and the use of some efficient antiseptic to prevent putrefaction of tl!^. Sarges. Under this treatment, the cyst-cavity rapidly contracts, and may finally close entirely. „ fn fimP been Other means of dealing with ovarian cysts have from time to time been suggested, all aiming at the same object, viz. that of inducing g^^^nal con- rSion of the cyst^and cohesion of its walls But of the P-^^^'^ f cated, the above described is the only one to be at all recomme.ided, a d hi only in the exceptional instances alluded to. No operation, however, shoit ot complete extirpation can be looked upon as surely curative ; since, even a ter incision and drainage, followed apparently by complete contraction it no un- commonly happens that secondary cysts develop in the wall or base of the original tumour ; and eventnally a multilocular growth may be substituted for what was apparently in the first instance a unilocular cyst. These measures have consequently, wherever possible, given way to the safer and far more certain procedure of ovariotomy. ^- cj Ovariotomy is probably the greatest triumph of modern Operative hurgery. In its original conception, as in its ultimate perfection, this operation reflects the greatest lustre on the British School of Surgery. Its history is curious. Its progress was slow, and was marked by those oscillations in the judgment and the favour of the Profession which frequently precede the final establishment of a great advance in practice. The operation was originally proposed, and its practicability discussed in 1762, by \A lUiam Hunter.'' It was strongly advocated and its practicability taught by John Bell, at a later period It is said to have been performed in France, by L'Aumonier, in 1782, in a case of "scirrhous disease with abscess" of the ovary, the patient recovering. A pupil of John Bell—McDowell of Kentucky —first performed the operation in America in 1802 ; and in all operated thirteen times. In 1823, Lizars operated for the first time in this country. But the operation, though several times repeated, fell into discredit, in a great measure owing to the imperfection of the diagnosis of the cases in which it was done, and was not revived until 1836, when Jeaflfreson of Framlingham practised it successfully through a small incision only an inch and a half long. From this operation we must date the revival of ovariotomy in Great Britain. This operation was followed by others per- formed by King of Saxmundham, Crisp of Harleston, and West of Tonbridge. The example of these provincial Surgeons was followed by their brethren in London, and the operation was practised by many, especially by Walne, F. Bird, and Baker Brown, but with very discouraging results ; for of 162 cases collected by Robert Lee, in 60 the disease could not be removed, and of these 19 died ; whilst of the remaining 102, 42 terminated fatally. Not only did these unfavourable results discourage the Profession, but a growing belief sprang up that this mortality, great as it was, did not by any means represent the whole extent of the fatal cases; and notwichstanding that C. Clay of Man- chester continued to operate, ovariotomy was in great danger of falling into such disrepute as to be excluded from ordinary surgical practice. In 1857 , appears for the first time in connexion with ovariotomy the name of a Surgeon, who was destined not (mly to revive ovariotomy, but to re-establish it firmly and definitively amongst the great operations in Surgery ; for in December of that year Spencer Wells performed his first operation of this kind. This case, the first of a series of 1,000 cases completed by him in the year 1881,