666 PLASTIC SURGERY OF THE LIl'S. The lower pin should be introduced first underneath the coronary artery in oftPnlT ) ^t^;'^^^^^:^ «top the l>leeding from tiiis vcBsel, which is often lather free The twisted suture is then applied in the usual Ivay (]<V /18) first round the lower pin, and then round the upper one (separate hreads, however, being used for each) ; and lastly, the two are united by a lew cross turns, so as to press down and support the whole length of the nssure (iMg 719). The pins are then cut short, the whole is coated with a layer of collodion, and a piece of plaster is put under the ends of the pins to Pig. 718.-Applioation of Twisted Suture. Pig. 7l9.-Applicatio.i of Pius and Sutures in Hare-lip. prevent excoriation of the skin. In addition to the pins and twisted suture, one or more points of interrupted suture should be passed through the mucous membrane of the lower part of the fissure, just inside the mouth. I look upon this as of great importance in preventing the notching, which is otherwise very apt to occur, in consequence of that portion of the incision between the lower pin and the edge of the lip being kept open by the child in sucking, or protruding its tongue against it. The parts may be supported by drawing the cheeks together by a piece of muslin cut so as to form a large rounded piece in each cheek connected by a narrow strip over the lip. This must be applied while the cheeks are pressed together with the fingers and sealed down with flexible collodion. American rubber-plaster may be applied in the same way, but is not so efficient. Hainsby's truss (Fig. 720) is now rarely used. When simple sutures are used—and in ordinary cases I much prefer them to the pins—stout silver wire or silkworm gut is the best material, and does not tend to cut out. Two or three of these are usually required, the lowest being inserted beneath the coronary artery and the highest close to the upper jjig. 720 —jdare-up: sprnu- cloft, SO as to draw inwai'ds the flattened Cheek-compressor. ° ala uasi. A fcw poiuts of lioi'sehair suture may be inserted superficially to ensure the perfect apposition of the edges, and others in the mucous membrane, as above described. In many cases some modification of the operation is advisable, especially when the cleft is broad and its edges of unequal length. A method which is. very largely employed is carried out as follows : The longer edge of the cleft is completely freshened, the incision at its lower end sloping slightly away on to- the lip. In freshening the other margin, the incision stops below at the junction of the skin and mucous membrane, so that a small flap remains attached by its lower extremity. This flap is drawn downwards, and after the introduction of the pins or sutures, it is adjusted with horsehair sutures