440 DISEASE OF THE IlIP-JOINT. In rectangular ankylosis of the hip, the foot cannot be put to the ground so long as the spine is straight (Fig. 077). In order that the toes should touch the ground, it becomes necessary that the body be bent forward ; and the lumbar spine will consequently be thrown into a very considerable arch (Fig. 578). The extent of the angular deformity in this kind of ankylosis can always be easily measured in the following way. If the patient be laid flat upon his back, so that the lumbar spine touches the mattress on which he is lyin-j. the knee will be raised above tiiat of the sound limb, and the angle formed between the thigh and trunk will at once be very perceptible. But if the knee be depressed so as to be brought to the same level as that of the sound limb, then the anterior superior spine of the ilium is rotated forwards, and the lumbar spine arched forwards to an extent proportionate to the angle of deformity. ^ This angular ankylosis of the hip-joint requires to be corrected, and the limb to be brought into a straight position, so that, even if it be shortened, the patient may, by means of a high-heeled boot, rest it upon the ground, and use it as a means of support and of progression. This may sometimes be effected, when the ankylosis is fibrous, by forcible extension under chloroform. But in other cases this cannot be done by simple extension, resistance being offered by the muscles on the anterior and upper part of the thigh. In such circum- stances, those that offer most resistance must be divided subcutaneously ; and these will usually be found to be the rectus, tensor vagina femoris, pectineus, and gracilis. After the limb has, in this way, been straightened, and main- tained for some time in the straight position by means of the long sphnt, weight apparatus or Thomas's splint, passive motion and frictions maybe used to restore the mobility of the joint. Operation for Angular Osseous Ankylosis.—Division of the upper end of the femur for angular ankylosis was first performed by Rhea Barton, in 182G. It was done in the case of a sailor, 21 years of age, who, in couse-