TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF ELBOW. 387 the head of the humerus for disease : of these, 8 died and 42 recovered from the operation. Of the 8 deaths, 3 only occurred before the third month, and 3 were from phthisis. In 2 only did death appear to have been directly occasioned by the operation. In but 17 of these 50 cases was the glenoid cavity interfered with ; but it is a remarkable circumstance that in no fewer than 7 out of the 8 fatal cases this cavity was diseased, and was treated by gouging, excising, or cauterization. Excision for Compound and Comminuted Fracture.—When excision of the shoulder-joint is required for compound and comminuted fi'acture from gunshot injury, the operation is of a less formal character. The bullet- wounds must be laid freely open in a longitudinal direction, or the deltoid even cut across at its superior attachment, all loose splinters removed, and the ragged ends of bone cut oft' with forceps or a narrow saw ; especial care being taken in manipulating towards the inner and under sides of the joint, in the vicinity of the large nerves and vessels. Without going back to the earlier cases of Percy, Larrey, and other military Surgeons of the latter part of the last century, who frequently practised this operation with the happiest results, the more recent experience of the wars in Europe and America demonstrated its great utility, and that it ought invariably to be preferred to amputation at the shoulder-joint in all cases in which the large blood-vessels and nerves are intact. Hodges states that in 96 recorded cases from all sources there were 25 deaths, or a mortahty of 26 per cent. But in the Crimean war the result was much more satisfactory. Thus Bauden relates 14 cases occurring in the Crimea, with only 1 death ; and in the British army, of 14 cases, 12 recovered; whilst of 60 amputations at the shoulder- joint 19 were fatal. In the American war, the mortality in 575 cases of excision of the shoal.ler-joint was at the rate of 32-5 per cent. Primary excisions were more successful than secondary : the percentage of mortality in the former (252 in number) being 23-3, and in the secondary (393 in number) DISEASES OF THE ELBOW-JOINT. The only aftection of the elbow which requires special mention is tubercu- lous disease. This may commence either in the synovial membrane or in one of the bones, but the cases in which the joint is secondarily infected from a primary osseous deposit are undoubtedly the more common. This tuberculous deposit most frequently occurs in the olecranon process of the ulna, but the humerus is sometimes first affected, and less frequently the radius. The cases of primary synovial disease are more common in children than in adults The first symptom of the disease is usually painful and restricted movement, the hmb being held in a flexed position. SwelKng is first detected in the hollows between the olecranon and the condyles of the humerus, or over the radio- humeral articulation. Gradually the enlargement assumes a fusiform shane and IS the more obvious on account of the wasting of the muscles of the arm' and .orearm. Abscesses may form in any position around the joint and often burrow for a considerable distance before bursting. Finally, the swelling mav >abside and ankylosis slowly supervene, numerous sinuses around the ioint '|ontmumg to discharge for long periods. In some cases of primary bone disease the swelling of the surrounding parts is not great, and one or more