976 DL^EASES OF THE RECTUM AND ANUS. in certain organs of the female economy, and to the ret-ml-LhYu, .f crculation by the accun.nlation of fat and by other caul;" ' A sedentary life with indolent habits constitutes,'perhao. the . powerful pred,s|,o«,n.^ cause of the disease ; more especiairif hl,>n.i f living- be coujoiued with want of exercise Indeed Z n. Z'^'"*^^'^^ J^fe'l^ the more opulent classes exercise a ^0^!^^^:^:^ :^'Z^ 1 Alcoholic excess is amongst the most common causes of piles, owin.r to th. hepatic congestion to which it gives rise. If it be carried^o thI extent 0 causing cirrhosis of the liver the condition becomes aggravated. UnS the ! circumstances bleeding piles may serve as a sort of safery-valve to the over "d^L portal circulation, and should on no account be interfeL with l irlZtnt IS this that in all cases of piles, before undertalcing an operation, the sZ m of cuThosis-moniing vomiting, failure of appetite, intermitten diarrhoea and occasional jaundice—should be inquired for. There are a number of minor conditions which are commonly looked unon as predisposing causes of this disease, though it is extremely difficult to determme the precise share that each has in its production. Amongst these may be mentioned intemperance in food ; residence in warm, moist and relaxing climates ; the use of soft and warm beds, or the opposite condition ot sitting on a cold stone or damp cushion. Over-excitement of the generative organs also will occasion it. _ Exciting Causes.—Amongst the exciting causes may be mentioned local lo-ntation of any kmd. Thus, in some people hard riding will bring on an attack of piles. The habitual use of drastic purgatives, more especially of aloes rhubarb, &c., is well known to occasion the disease ; though it must be observed that individuals, who make habitual use of these remedies, often labour under some of those obstructions of the abdominal viscera that have already been noticed as conducing to piles. The existence of other diseases about the rectum and anus, such as fistula, ulcer, or stricture, by inducing local congestion and irritation, may excite the disease ; so also, uterine affections and various diseases of the gcnito-urinary organs may give rise to this affection. The most direct exciting cause of piles is certainly a retardation to the return of the portal blood. Habitual constipation ; the accumulation of hardened feculent masses in the large intestine ; obstruction to the proper action of the hver, and consequent congestion of that organ ; the pressure of abdominal tumours, or of the gravid uterus, are all active exciting causes, interfering as they do with the proper return of the blood from the hsemorrhoidal veins. In some cases, even the existence of an obstacle to the circulation in the systemic veins may occasion this disease: thus it will arise from the pressure of an aneurismal tumour on some of the large venous trunks within the chest. Structure.—A pile, whether external or internal, consists essentially in the first instance of a varicose condition of a portion of the hgemorrhoidal plexus, or rather, of the small veins of the submucous tissue that pour their contents into this ; this varicose condition, becoming prominently developed at certain points, gives rise to small knots or tumours. A pile in this state is quite soft and compressible, and can readily be emptied by pressure; and when cut into, it will be found to be composed of one or more spaces filled with blood, and surrounded by areolar tissue. These spaces are formed by