TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF HIP: SYMPTOMS. 417 subject of as much cliiference of opinion as that of the earHer displacement. In some cases it is undoubtedly due to destruction of the head of the bone and partial or complete dislocation. In these cases it is accompanied by distinct shortening with displacement of the trochanter above Nekton's line. (Vol I., p. GIO.) Much more commonly, however, it sets in long before there are any signs of extensive destruction of the head of the bone, and must then arise from other causes. Busch has suggested that it may be due to the erosion of the upper and posterior wall of the acetabulum, so constantly met with as one of the earliest destructive processes in hip disease. Inconsequence of this the head is displaced upwards and backwards, so slightly at first as not to give rise to signs of dislocation, but enough, when the ilio-femoral ligament is unsoftened, to cause adduction of the limb. The altered position of the limb has also been ascribed to softening and yielding of the thinnest part of the capsule, the posterior and outer, while the inner and anterior part, which is much stronger, retains its toughness ; to the external rotators becoming implicated early in the disease, as they lie most closely in contact with the capsule, and thus ceasing to oppose the adductors and internal rotators ; and lastly, to the position assumed in bed by the patient when the diseased hip becomes too tender to bear any pressure. Probably all these causes are more or less concerned in the production of the adducted position, each acting in a different degree according to the circumstances of the case. "When adduction sets in, the position of the pelvis undergoes a change. In order to bring the limbs parallel and in a straight line with the body, the patient must now raise the pelvis on the aifected side and abduct the sound limb, thus giving rise to apparent shortening of the limb on the side of the disease. This may occur without any or with very shght real shortening, the amount of which can be ascertained only by measurement. The displacements of the pelvis and limb are accompanied by corresponding changes in the position of the spine. Owing to the tilting of the pelvis, there is a lateral curve produced in the lumbar region, the concavity of which looks towards the elevated side of the pelvis, and in order to keep the body straight, there is a compensating curve- in the opposite direction higher up. At the same time the fixed flexion of the thigh is compensated for by an antero- posterior curvature of the lower spine with the concavity forwards, or as it is termed lordosis. This conceals the flexion of the hip-joint, so that the two limbs may lie side by side in bed apparently straight, when in reality the diseased hip is flexed to a considerable angle. When the limbs are in this position, if the hund be passed under the lumbar spine, it will be found to be arched forwards, not touching the bed. In order to estimate the amount of flexion, the plan recommended by H. 0. Thomas is the best. As the patient lies on his back, the sound limb should be flexed to the full extent at the hip . and knee, and pressed upon firmly till the lumbar spine becomes straight, and I the hand can no longer be passed between it and the bed; the thigh of the aflFected limb will then be raised from the bed, and the true angle of flexion I becomes apparent. The degree of adduction or abduction is best recognized by putting a tape across from one anterior superior spine to the other, w hen the angles formed by the limbs with this hne are at once clearly seen. The alterations in length are recognized by measurement from the anterior superior spine to the inner condyle of the femur or the inner malleolus, the limbs bemg placed as accurately as possible in the same position on the two