TUMOUIiS OF THE UPPER JAW: TREATMENT. 633 to determine the primarij seat of the lumour: wliether it spring from the cavi ty of the antrum, from the malar bone, or from behind the superior maxilla in the ptervgo-maxillarj fossa. When it springs from the intenor of the ankwn the buccal, orbital, nasal, or palatal walls of that cavity are expanded, and the line of teeth is rendered irregular. When the tninour primarily springs from the malar lone (Fig. 691), it pushes forward the cheek into a somewhat conical prominence, and dips down into the mouth between the gums and the soft structures of the face. It does not involve the palate, or alter the hue of the teeth ; but rather spreads over the bones, and involves the soft parts by continuity of tissue, without any definite anatomical disposition. As the tumour increases in size, it will implicate the anterior wall of the antrum, and project into that cavity. When the disease develops primarily Miind the supmoi- maxilla, between it and the great wing or the pterygoid process of the sphenoid, the upper jaw-bone is simply pushed bodily forwards, there being little if any deformity in its outline, the line of teeth not being displaced, nor the walls of the antrum expanded. Yet it must be borne in mind that the difficulty of diagnosis is greatly increased by the fact that a tumour, though not originating in the antrum, may find its way early into this cavity, or may pass into the orbit through the spheuo-maxillary fissure, and may make its way forwards amongst the bones of the face. Treatment.—In the treatment of tumours of the upper jaw and antrum, nothing can be -done except to extirpate the growth; and it is consequently of great importance to distinguish those forms of the disease in which an operation can be undertaken with safety, and with a fair chance of success, from those in which none should be per- formed. The points to be considered are: 1, whether the tumour is benign or malignant ; 2, if it be benign, whether it grows from the antrum or springs from behind the superior maxilla; or o, if it is malig- nant, whether it has passed the boundaries of the antrum. When the tumour, springing from the antrum, is of a simple character, the disease should be removed, together with the whole of the superior maxilla ; the tumour, whatever size it has attained, being generally encapsuled, and the bones expanded and absorbed around it ; so that it is well bounded, and. does not implicate neighbouring parts. W^heii the tumour springs from the spheno-maxillary or pterygo-maxillary fossa, pushing the bones of the side of the face forwards, an operation should not be lightly under- taken, as it is doubtful, in many cases, whether the Surgeon can interfere with any prospect of success. Should, however, the tumour be simple, the patient's health good, and an operation be deemed expedient, the tumour can be reached only by excising the upper jaw, when it may either be removed attached to that bone, or it may be extirpated from the cavity in which it lies behind it. Such an operation, implicating as it does Pig. 691.—Malignant Disease of Malar Bone not suitable for operation. 1