DISEASES OF JOINTS. 364 ankylosed joint without any bad consequences ensuing. After the Hinb has been restored to its proper position, passive motion and frictions may tend Ln increase its mobility. 3. When osseous ankylosis has taken place, and the position of the limb is a good one, it will generally be wiser for the Surgeon not to interfere ; except in the case of the elbow-joint, which, in these circumstances, may be excised with advantage, so as to substitute a movable for an immovable articulation. li the position be faulty, the osseous union may be sawn, drilled, or chiselled, and broken through subcutaueously ; or a wedge-shaped piece of the bones may be- taken out, and the position of the limb thus rectified. 4. Amputation may be required in cases of faulty ankylosis with so much atrophy of the limb as to render it useless,-or in cases in which there necrosed or carious bone co-existing with ankylosis a,nd rigid atrophy of tin muscles of the limb. LOOSE CARTILAGES IN JOINTS. It sometimes happens that the synovial membrane of a joint assumes a Warty Condition, as the result of chronic disease of the articulation, especially in rheumatoid arthritis. This warty state of the membrane arises from hypertrophy of the fringes, chiefly in the neighbourhood of the margin of the cartilages. These may become pedunculated, and pendent into its interior. For this condition, which gives rise to occasional uneasiness and puffiness about the joint, with a crackling or creaking sensation when it is moved, but little can be done beyond the application of a flannel bandage or an elastic knee-cap. Loose Bodies may be of three kinds. 1. The so-called melon-seed bodies. These are usually numerous, sometimes fifty or more in number, white or brownish in colour, and closely resemble the seeds of a melon in form. They are composed most commonly of dense fibroid tissue, and are believed to be due, in many cases at least, to the pedunculated, warty, or villous growths just described as being formed from hypertrophy of the synovial fringes, becoming separated from their attachments by the movements of the joint. In other cases it is possible they may be formed from altered clot, as blood-crystals have been recognized in them. Lastly, Konig first pointed out that in mauy cases they are formed from a fibrinous exudation from the synovial membrane due to very chronic tuberculous disease. In some cases he demonstrated the pre- sence of tubercle in the synovial membrane. (See Tuberculous Dropsy, p. 846.) Melon-seed bodies are more common in the sheaths of tendons and in synovial bursge than in joints, and in these situations also it has been shown by Nicaise, Poullet, and Yaillard, that they are due to chronic tuberculosis of the mem- 2. Fragments of true cartilage. These may be developed in two ways : first, from the formation of cartilage in the hypertrophied fringes of a warty synovial membrane. In the normal condition a cartilage cell is present m many of the secondary papillte of the fringes, and it is easy to understand how this can form the starting-point 0 a cartilaginous growth. In other cases, Billroth believes that they are ossifying cartilagmous growths formed in the fibrous layer of the synovial membrane in rheumatoid arthritis (p. 354), which have subsequently become loose by the wearing away of the sup'^rhcial layers of the membrane. This mode of origin is somewhat doubtful, ihese