TUBERCULOUS DISEASE OF THE HIP. 415 and posterior part, against which the femur chiefly presses. Here the bone is worn away, and the conditions are rendered favourable for the occurrence of dislocation. The latter is usually a slow process, and as the head of the thigh-bone is gradually displaced upwards and backwards new bone is thrown out around it, and the acetabulum is correspondingly enlarged — the " wandering" acetabulum of Grerman writers. In advanced cases extensive caries and necrosis of the neighbouring parts of the pelvis may result. The changes in the synovial membrane need no special description. The round ligament of the joint is often destroyed at an early stage. Ssmiptoms.— In considering the symptoms of tuberculous disease of the hip- joint, it will be convenient to discuss briefly the following conditions :—Pain, Attitude, Imperfect Mobility, Suppuration, Sinuses, Dislocation, and Ankylosis. A short sketch of the clinical course of the disease will then be given. 1. Fain.—This is a more or less constant symptom but varies much in its characters and position. It maybe referred to the region of the hip, but may extend down the limb, and not uncommonly is complained of only in the knee. This pain in the knee may be explained by the irritation of the articular branch of the obturator nerve, causing a referred pain to be felt in the terminal branches at the inner side of the knee-joint. Both the hip and knee also receive articular branches from the anterior crural and sciatic nerves. That from the obturator, however, enters the round ligament, and is perhaps for this reason implicated early in cases in which the disease commences in the head of the femur. The pain is often associated with tenderness on pressure over the front of the joint or in the hollow behind the great trochanter. The character of the pain in the early stages is rarely of any value as an indication of the probable exact seat of the disease. Barker has, however, pointed out that in synovial disease the slightest movement of the joint causes much suffering, whereas if the disease be still limited to the femur or acetabulum, movement may be painless, whilst pressure on the trochanter or in the long axis of the limb at once causes pain. Amongst the most distressing symptoms of some cases of hip disease are the painful startings of the limb which occur at night. These occur at the moment when the contracted muscles which fix the joint become more or less suddenly relaxed and movement of the inflamed surfaces on one another results. Starting pains are most severe when the articular cartilages are ■eroded, but they cannot be looked upon as a proof that this has occurred, for they are sometimes a marked symptom in the early stages of the disease, and are liable to occur in any case in which there is sufficient pain on move- ment to evoke involuntary muscular fixation of the joint. 2. The Attitude of the limb is pecuhar, and varies during the course or the disease. In the early stages the limb is usually slightly flexed, abducted and rotated outwards, or in other words assumes the position of natural rest., The cause of this position has been the subject of much discussion. It has been proved experimentally by Bonnet and others, that the limb can be made to assume this attitude by forcibly injecting fluid, so as tightly to distend the capsule. The accompanying figure well shows this fact. It is from a photo- graph kindly furnished me by Barker, of a preparation made by himself. The right hip-joint was forcibly distended with fluid injected through a hole drilled into it through the ilio-pectineal eminence. That the limb may there-