38o DISEASES OF THE SCAPULA. scapula, and extensive necroKis of the body of the bone may follow infective periostitis. By far the most important disease of the bone, and that for which excision has chiefly been practised, is sarcoma. It is as a rule impossible to determine the exact starting-point of the tumour ; Butlin believes that it is usually subperiosteal. Sarcoma of the scapula is of rapid growth, and usually projects from the dorsal surface of the body of the bone. The preservation of the arm after removal of the scapula is a matter of very considerable importance. The Surgeon who first ventured on the bold opera- tion of Removal of the Whole Scapula was Gumming, in 1808. Cxaetani Bey, in 1830, first amputated the arm and then proceeded to extirpate the shoulder-blade. In 1811) Listen removed the whole of the upper two-thirds of the scapula from a lad without sacrificing the arm. In 1828 Luke removed nearly the whole of the scapula from a girl of fourteen for malignant disease, sawing across the bone through its neck and the root of the acromion, and thus leaving the glenoid cavity and the acromion process. Hayman, Janson, Wlitzer, and Textor all performed similar operations, removing the greater part of the bone, but leaving the glenoid cavity and more or less of the parts above the spine. In 18.37 Mussey (U.S.) excised the whole of the scapula and the clavicle for an enormous osteo-sarcoma ; the patient, a man, ^vas, according to Gross, in excellent health fifteen years after the operation. In 1850 Gross removed the whole of the scapula, with the exception of the glenoid cavity, by sawing through the neck of the bone, for an osteo-sarcoma weighing seven pounds. Indeed, the American Surgeons have distinguished themselves highly in this department of surgery. Thus, in 1838, McClellan removed the whole of the scapula with the clavicle for a soft sarcoma, but the patient died. In two cases Gilbert (U.S.) removed the scapula, half of the clavicle, and the upper extremity, one patient living a week, the other three months, after the operation. In 1845 Mussey successfully operated by the removal of the scapula, the outer half of the clavicle, and the upper extremity. In Gross's case, the only portion of the scapula left attached to the upper extremity was the glenoid cavity. In 1856 Syme went a step further in this direction, and, by disarticulating the bone instead of sawing through its neck, removed the scapula with all its processes entire from a woman seventy years of age, also leaving the arm untouched. Since that period complete removal of the scapula, leaving the arm untouched, has been done several times by Syme, Jones of Jersey, Cock, Fergusson, Pollock, Heath, Symonds and others. The arm so left becomes useful, capable of performing all the underhand move- ments, and of lifting considerable weights ; and it may now be looked upon as an established rule in surgery that the limb should never be removed unless it also be the seat of disease, rendering necessary that addition to the excision of the scapula. Fergusson preferred sawing through the root of the acromion to disarticulating that process, so as to give greater roundness to the shoulder and preserve the attachment of the trapezius. Partial Excision of the Scapula has usually been practised for tumours of the bone. The extent of bone requiring excision will necessarily vary greatly according to the size and character of the tumour, and the severity of the operation will mainly depend upon whether it is the upper or the lower portion of the bone that is the seat of disease. When the tumour is situated towards the lower angle of the bone, it may be exposed by a crucial or T-shaped