CONGENITAL FISTUL/E IN THE NECK. 609 opened, and the edge of the knife must then be directed against it, and the dissection carried on from below upwards, or from behind forwards, so that one division of the blood-vessels supplying it may be sufficient. After the tumour has been well loosened by the division of investing fascias and structures (and it is surprising how movable it often becomes after this has been done, though it may previously have appeared to be incorporated somewhat solidly with the subjacent tissues) it should be taken hold of with the hand or a large double book, and drawn well forwards whilst the deep dissection is being carried on. In prosecuting this, the Surgeon must guard against wounding the temporo-maxillary vein, the external carotid artery and the facial nerve, which are especially exposed to injury. In some cases the division of these cannot be avoided, as they are incorporated. Hae- morrhage from the divided vein or artery will, however, be easily arrested by hgature. In most instances, however, by keeping the edge of the knife carefully against the tumour, and by drawing it well forward, so as to loosen it in its areolar bed, removal of the morbid mass may be effected without the division of any important vessel or nerve. It is of more consequence to avoid a wound of the facial nerve and its chief branches than even of the vein or artery ; as incurable paralysis of the face would result from such an in- jury. Division of the nerve is best avoided by dissecting out the tumour by incisions parallel to its main trunk and chief branches, and especially by drawing the mass well forward, and directing the knife towards it. In attempting the removal of a malignant tumour it must be remembered that the styloid process marks the limit beyond which no operative procedure can safely be carried. The vessels superficial to this are easily secured if divided. If, therefore, the tumour extend beyond the styloid process the operation must be abandoned. If the tumour have been allowed to attain an enormous size, with large lobes lying behind and under the ramus of the jaw, in close relation with the pharynx, the internal carotid, and jugular vein, it will not be prudent to attempt its removal. Excision of the Parotid Gland itself is occasionally spoken of, but is very rarely done. I believe that in most cases in which it is stated that complete removal of this gland has been accomplished, tumours overlying and compressing it have been mistaken for it. Godlee, in one case in University College Hospital, completely removed the gland for an infiltrating growth. The operation was tedious and difficult, and the facial nerve and carotid artery were necessarily divided. The wound healed well, but the growth returned and ultimately proved fatal. Thompson of Eome has also removed the entire gland in one case. DISEASES OF THE NEOK. Congenital Fistnlae in the Neck are of rare occurrence. They are most common at the side of the neck but may be met with in the middle Hne. Those which are placed laterally arise from imperfect closure of one of the branchial clefts, and are called Branchial Fistulce (see Fig. 355, Vol. I. p. 1012). Of the three cervical branchial clefts the lowest most commonly remains as a fistula, which opens in the skin near the sternal origin of the sterno- mastoid. It is lined with mucous membrane and discharges a small quantity