GONORRIICEA. "57 be readily relieved by leeches to the perinaeum, the warm Wp-b^^h '^incrwith, perhaps, opiate suppositories, and plenty ^^-^^^IX""^'- The catheter should not be used, if it be possible to give relief without it. GONOBRHCEA. GonorrhcBa is a specific disease, accompanied by inflammation and an abun- aant muco-purulent discharge; affecting the urethra most commonly, but also rhe other mucous membranes of the genital organs, as of the prepuce and the .lans in the male, and of the vulva and vagina in the fema e. The urethra is the usual seat of gonorrhoea m the male ; and the disease may be looked on as an infective urethritis. Its seat of greatest intensity is usually the fossa navicularis ; but it may extend over a much greater surface •iffecting the entire length of the canal, and even the whole mucous hning of the bladder. In the female it commonly spreads over the extensive mucous surface of the external organs of generation, and sometimes invades the uterus and Fallopian tubes. -1 j Cause.-Gonorrhcea has its origin in the female, and is possibly developed in prostitutes without infection from the male. It is a highly infective inflammation of the mucous membrane of the vagina, predisposed to by the decomposition of retained semen and of foul discharges, the result of repeated acts of indiscriminate intercourse without proper attention to cleanliness, it is impossible to say clinically where urethritis or vaginitis ends, and mtective o-onorrhoea begins. In the male, gonorrhoea arises in all cases from communi- cation of the specific poison from the female by sexual intercourse. The poison of gonorrhoea differs entirely from those of the venereal diseases described in Chapter XXXVL, as has been fully proved by inoculation ; these diseases not being capable of reproducing one another in any circumstances. The pus of gonorrhoeal urethritis always contains a specific organism—the gonococcus of Neisser, which is undoubtedly the cause of the disease. It can readily be demonstrated by drying a thin layer of the pus on a cover-glass and staining it for a few minutes in an alcoholic solution of methyl-violet. The goliococcus occurs in pairs or groups, and is met with in the interior of the epithelium and pus cells. The organism has been cultivated outside the body in fluid media and on blood-serum and gelatine ; and inoculations of pure cultivations into the normal urethra have reproduced the disease. _ Bokai inoculated six students with the organism, which had been cultivated in suit- able fluids, and in three gonorrhoea followed. Bockhart successfully inoculated the organism in the urethra of a man after it had been cultivated to four generations on prepared gelatine ; and Bumm produced typical gonorrhoea by the introduction into the healthy female urethra of the organism cultivated to the twentieth generation on blood-serum. It is important to remember that the gonococcus is not distinguishable by ■ its form alone from other varieties of diplococcus, such as one which Lust- garten and Mannaberg found constantly in the normal urethra. Roux has, however, shown that the gonococcus can be distinguished by the fact that it does not stain by Gram's method, whereas the others do. Lustgarten and Mannaberg also, found in the normal urethra an organism like the smegma bacillus, which showed the same staining reactions as the bacillus tuberculosis, and the staphylococcus pyogenes aureus. Recent observations tend to show that the