SYMPTOMS OF ENLARGED PROSTATE. lUS P.ut not only does the diseased state of this body thus excite a depraved ' ndiln of Ihe mind; the converse also will happen. And .f the true h.stoiy of many cases of prostatic congestion and hasmorrhage were told, diseas^ uould be found to have begun in irregular sexual or erotic excitement by which the genital organs have been over-stimulated. Baa: at the Neck of the Bladder.-Under this name has been described a transverse ridge obstructing the internal orifice of the urethra and causing symptoms exactly analogous to those produced by hypertrophy of the midaie portion of the prostate. According to Thompson, the fold is m the great inaiority of cases actually caused by an outgrowth from the middle portion ot the o-land. In exceptional cases, however, it may be due to hypertrophy ot the muscular fibres at the neck of the bladder, produced by long continued ii-ritation, usually caused by chronic cystitis from stone or stricture. Last y, in very rare cases, a valve-like fold of mucous membrane may be drawn up by enlargement of the lateral lobes without affection of the median portion of the oland. The Symptoms of Enlarged Prostate arise primarily from the mechanical obstacle offered to the escape of the urine. The first symptoms usually consist in the feeling of a necessity to strain slightly before the urine will flow ; and then, after the bladder has apparently been emptied, m the involuntary escape of a small quantity of urine. The patient also finds that he is much longer than usual in emptying the bladder ; for though the stream Hows freely enough as soon as it has once begun to escape, yet it cannot be properly projected, the bladder having, to a certain extent, lost its tonicity. It commonly happens that the more the patient strains the less readily will the urine come away, whereas when he remains quiet, it will usually flow with more freedom. This is especially the case in pedunculated enlargements of the middle lobe. About this time frequency of micturition usually becomes a marked feature, especially at night. In fact, the great majority of patients apply to the Surgeon, not on account of difficulty in passing water, but because they are called upon to perform the act of micturition too frequently. This condition may gradually increase till it amounts to actual dribbling. The frequent discharge of a small quantity of urine may lead the incautious Surgeon to suppose that the patient is affected with true incontinence of urine or with irritability of the bladder. This error may always be guarded against by careful examination of the pubic region by percussion and palpation. Dulness will often be found extending half-way to the umbilicus, and the tense distended bladder may be readily felt above the pubes. If there is any doubt the patient must be made to pass water, and immediately afterwards a soft catheter must be passed. In this way the presence of residual urine and its quantity are determined. The symptoms may for a long time remain limited to frequency of mictu- rition with some difficulty in the act. The urine remains acid and normal in every respect, and the patient suffers but little, if at all, in his general health. The condition is, however, always one of considerable danger. The over-dis- tended bladder is always prone to slight attacks of cystitis from exposure to cold or other causes. The urine then becomes cloudy from excess of rnucus, and often acqitires an offensive fishy smell, while still remaining acid. The mucus accumulates in the pouch behind the enlarged prostate, and aniraoniacal decomposition readily takes place. This may occur without the passage of