243 RESULTS OF LIGATURE OF FEMORAL. Surgeon holding the edge of the opening on the side from which he is passinsr the needle, while the assistant catches the opposite side in a pair of forceps and draws gently upon it. In passing the needle, its end should be kept very close to the artery, and made to circle round it. The vein is generally per- forated by dipping the needle too deeply and losing the contact between it and the artery. When the needle is brought up on the outer side of the artery, a small portion of the sheath is sometimes pushed up by it; this must be torn by pinching it with the forceps, when the needle may be carried round the vessel. Collateral Circulation.—After ligature of the common femoral this is carried on by the anastomoses of internal pudic with external pudic branches of femoral ; gluteal and circumflex iliac with external circumflex ; obturator with internal circumflex ; sciatic with internal circumflex and perforating branches of the profunda. After ligature of the superficial femoral the collateral circulation is through the anastomoses of the external circumflex with the articular branches of the popliteal, and by a series of communications between sciatic, internal circumflex, perforating arteries, and articular branches of popliteal. The comes nervi ischiadici may take an important share in the collateral supply. Results.—Ligature of the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism is an operation that has so frequently been performed, that Surgeons seldom think of recording cases of this description, unless they present unusual complica- tions or sequelte ; hence, but little importance can be attached to any statis- tical deductions from reported cases as to the fatality of this operation, although they may serve as a rough estimate of the proportion maintained between the different accidents, such as haemorrhage, gangrene, &c., that follow it. That the ligature of the femoral artery is attended Avith more success than that of any of the other large trunks, can admit of no doubt. This is not only in accordance with the general experience of Surgeons, but is confirmed by the statistics of published cases, even without making allow- ance for the probability of more of the unsuccessful than of the successful having been recorded. Thus of 110 cases, collected by Crisp, in which the femoral artery had been ligatured for popliteal aneurism, only twelve are reported to have died : amongst these, four deaths were caused by secondary haemorrhage, three by gangrene, and the others by phlebitis, tetanus, chest disease, &c. Higher rates of mortahty are, however, given by other authors : thus, Norris states that nearly one in four die after this operation ; Hutchin- son finds that of thirty-three cases operated on in London, ten were fatal, five deaths resulting from gangrene. Holmes's statistics, which are extremely valuable as being collected directly from hospitals and not from published cases, show very favourable results. Of eighty-seven cases in which the operation was performed for femoral or popHteal aneurism, thirteen died, and in three the operation failed to cure the disease. Gangrene occurred twice, and suppuration of the sac not once. Of the deaths, one was fi'om small-pox, two from wound of the vein and phlebitis, three from pyemia, one from gangrene and amputation, one from disease of the kidneys, and the rest from various other causes. Barwell has collected also from hospital reports 67 cases occurring in the ten years 1870 to 1879 inclusive. Of these ten died. Most of the deaths occurred, however, in the first half of this period, in which 32 cases were operated on, with 7 deaths and 2 amputations : while in -the B 2