DISEASES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 68 The pulsation, not so forcible as in aneurism, is more heaving and expansile. The bruit is louder, and more superficial, sometimes having a cooing tonel By pressure on the arteries leading to the tumour these signs are usually not entirely arrested, though diminished in force, the blood entering it from the neighbouring parts, and in a less direct way. Treatment.—The treatment of aneurism by anastomosis must depend upon the size and situation of the growth. When it is so placed that it can be ligahired or excised, as on the lip, or when small, about the neck, face, or scalp, trunk or extremities, it should be removed. I always prefer the ligature, applied as will immediately be described, as being the safest, and upon the whole the readiest mode of removing such a tumour. If excision be practised, it is necessary to be very careful to cut wide of the disease ; if it be cut into, fearful haemorrhage may ensue, which can only be arrested by pressure, and which in several instances has proved fatal. If the disease be very large and extended, as is commonly seen on the scalp, or if deeply seated, as in the orbit, neither ligature nor excision of the tumour can be practised, and it becomes necessary to starve it by cutting off its supply of blood. This may be done either by ligaluring the princijoal branches leading to it, or the main trunk of the limb or part. Simple ligature of the arterial branches leading to the tumour has never, I believe, been followed by success ; at least, in ten recorded instances in which it has been had recourse to, the disease has not in one instance been cured. It has, however, been successfully conjoined by Gibson, in two cases of aneurism by anastomosis of the scalp, with incisions made round the tumour at inter- vals between the principal feeding arteries, which at the same time were tied. The niain trunk leading to the tumour has been ligatured in a considerable number of cases. The brachial and femoral arteries have been tied for disease of this kind situated on the extremities, and in some instances with success; but the carotid is the vessel that has been most frequently deligated, in consequence of the tumour being commonly situated on the scalp and in the orbit. Wyeth has collected 98 cases in which the carotid was ligatured for vascular growths above the clavicle, excluding cases of " intra-orbital aneurism." The results have not been encouraging: of 73 cases in which the common carotid was tied, nearly 30 per cent, died directly from the operation, and only about half of those that recovered derived any benefit from it. Both common carotid arteries were tied at varying intervals in 9 cases ; of these 2 died, 1 was cured, 2 improved, and the rest recovered but derived no benefit from the operation. In many of the cases in which one carotid alone was tied, the disease, being seated upon the scalp, was not cured ; and it was afterwards found necessary to have recourse to ligature of the tumour, to excision, and to other means of removal; indeed, when seated upon the scalp, this disease appears to be more intractable than in any other part of the body, owing probably to the freedom of the arterial supply from the numerous vessels that ramify in this region. Here, however, much benefit might be derived after ligature of the carotid, by adopting the plan, suggested by Gibson, of tying the feeding arteries, and making incisions between them down to the bone. The ligature of the carotid has answered better for pulsating tumours in the orbit, but few of these are true cirsoid aneurisms. (See Intra-Orbital Aneurisms.)