FLAT FOOT. S^i it in such a manner, that the foot is completely crippled, an.l amputation of tiie disphiced digit is required in order to restore the utility of the member. In the Treatment of paralytic club-foot every endeavour must be made to prevent the occurrence of the deformity by maintaining the foot in a correct position, and in cases of infantile paralysis in which the muscles still react to the constant current, by the use of electricity and massage. When the faulty position is caused by permanent contraction of a paralysed muscle tenotomy may be practised, but the operation can be productive of nothing but increased loss of power if the talipes results from the unopposed action of the healthy muscles. In the latter cases the position of the foot may be improved by applying elastic extension in such a way as to exert traction in the direction of the paralysed muscle. This method, which is also appli-- cable to congenital cases, was suggested by Barwell, and has been largely employed by Wright of Manchester. A light metal splint with a hook attached is secured to the front of the leg. The " artificial muscle," which consists of an india-rubber cord, is attached by ouq end to a strip of strapping sm-rounding the centre of the foot, and by its other end to the hook on the leg splint. In a case of valgus the strapping would be carried round the foot from within outwards and the india-rubber band attached to its extremity at the inner border of the sole. In many cases the position of the foot must be maintained by the use of light iron supports. A method of treatment which is deserving of further trial in suitable cases consists in excising part of the tendon of the paralysed muscle and suturing the ends. This has been practised with success by Willett, Walsham and others on the tendo Achilhs. Flat or Splay Foot. Spurious Talipes Valgus is a condition fi-eqnently met with in young adults. It is predisposed to by those constitutional con- ditions that have already been described as favouring the development of lateral curvature of the spine, with which it is often associated, but the determining cause is most frequently over-fatigue of the foot from long standing, and from carrying heavy weights, or from a slovenly habit of walk- ing by sHding rather than raising the feet, or twisting the foot so as to press upon the inner side. Girls of a tender age who are allowed to carry infants, Ijoys set to heavy work beyond their strength, shop-boys and girls mercilessly kept upon their -feet for too many hours, will early develop this deformity. When both feet are affected, there is usually knock-knee. In some instances flat-foot seems to be predisposed to by rheumatism, and it has been observed as a sequel of gonorrhoeal rheumatism. The deformity is due to a weakness of the muscles in the sole of the foot, and to relaxation of the ligaments by which the arch is maintained, especially the long plantar, and the inferior cal- caneo-navicular ligaments. As the result of this, the arch of the instej) gradu- ally sinks, so that the sole becomes perfectly flat. As the disease advances, a tendency to eversiun of the foot takes place. At the same time, owing to flattening out of the arch, the inner side of the foot becomes lengthened, while the outer side, which is naturally only slightly arched, is but little altered. In consequence of this, the anterior part of the foot in front of the medio-tarsal articulation is displaced outwards. The scaphoid is thus partly dislocated from the head of the astragalus, which projects at the inner side of tlie foot, and being pressed upon, is often a source of much pain. The trans- verse ligamentous structures that bind together the bases of the metatarsal VOL. II. o o