OPERATION FOR STRANGULATED FEMORAL HERNIA. 883 l.eniia This accident, however, is of extremely rare occurrence, and might in a o-reat measure be guarded against by slightly blunting the edge of the hernia- knife before dividing the stricture, so that the tense fibrous bands constituting t he constriction would yield, while the artery would probably escape, being pushed before the blunted edge. I have, however, more than once seen blood well up rather freely on the division of the stricture ; but it has ceased spon- taneously, and I have never known it to give any trouble. If the division of the stricture be limited to a Hne or two, there will be but little danger of wounding the vessel, even when it takes the abnormal course. Barker, to whom this accident happened in operating on a patient in Univer- sity College Hospital, successfully arrested the hEemorrhage by pressure, the patient dying fi-om gangrene of the gut four days after. In a case recorded by A. H. Corley, of Dublin, the bleeding was very free, but was easily con- trolled by passing the forefinger into the w^ound and grasping the abdominal wall between it and the thumb. A curved needle was accordingly passed in through the ring and out immediately above Poupart's hgament, and a twisted suture applied around it. The haemorrhage ceased, and did not recur. The patient died from other causes, and the post-mortem examination showed the obturator arising from the epigastric and cut opposite the neck of the sac. The two ends had retracted one inch apart, the distal having gone so far in the direction of the obturator foramen that any attempt to reach it would have been out of the question. The needle w^as found to have passed immediately in front of the proximal end, crossing the track of the artery, but not actually including it; yet the traction so exerted seems to have been enough to close the vessel, as it was obHterated by a clot. The distal end contained no clot. Hartley has recorded a case in which he successfuUy ligatured the vessel after enlarging the wound sufficiently to bring it into view. The patient recovered. Barker, who collected the records of 16 cases of this accident, states that in 6 a hgature was applied. Probably the best means would always be to enlarge the wound up to Poupart's ligament, and attempt torsion or hgature. The artery might also be exposed by an incision above Poupart's ligament, hke that for ligature of the external iliac by Cooper's method, if simple enlargement ot the wound did not bring it into view. If these means fail acupressure or pressure may be resorted to. It will generally be found that the intestine contained in the sac of a femoral hernia is dark-coloured and tightly nipped ; it requires to be treated in accordance with the general principles already laid down. After the stricture has been divided it is very desirable that the gut be gently drawn down so that the part which lay against the sharp edge of Gimbernat's ligament may be inspected, for this has been known to slough, although the rest of the knuckle of gut presented a healthy appearance. The Stricture in strangulated femoral hernia is usually outside the sac, and in the large majority of cases is formed by the edge of (limbernat's ligament. In some instances, however, the constriction is produced by the fibres of the deep crural arch, or by the falciform border of the saphenous opening—the so-called " femoral," or Hey's ligament. It is thus possible, in many cases, to relieve the stricture without opening the sac, but for reasons already given, this should not be attempted unless the Surgeon be obhged to operate in an emergency, without the means of cariying out the antiseptic treatment. 3 L 2