460 DISEASES OF THE FOOT. component parts—toes, nictatarsns, and tarsus,—we perceire that firmness .1 gait IS given by the foot resting on the heel behind, and on the ball in front formed by the projection of the broad line of the metatarso-phalangeal articu- lations, more particularly that of the great toe ; whilst elasticity is com- municated to the tread by the play of the toes and metatarsal bones. Th- elasticity of the foot maybe lost without any very serious inconvenience b the patient, but the preservation of stability is of essential importance ; an.I as this is secured by the heel, the ball of the great toe, and the breadth of tli.; anterior part of the foot, these are the most important parts to preserve in all resections of this part of the body. In no region of the body have the good effects of modern conservati\ ' surgery been more distinctly shown than in the Tarsus. In the "good oM times" of Surgery, if a person had a "white swelUng" of the bones of th. foot, he was at once condemned to amputation. Until a comparatively recent period, indeed, "diseased tarsus" was described as a whole. Surgeon- did not endeavour to make out the exact extent and amount of tli disease, and every case was looked upon as requiring amputation of th- leg. The rule of practice then observed was, amongst the \vealthi')- classes—those who could afford the expense of a " cork leg "—to amputate little above the ankle ; but, amongst the poorer classes, to remove the lei: about a couple of inches below the knee, so as to give the patient a stump which, when bent, would fit into the socket of a wooden pin. Thus, in tlie latter case especially, not only was the sound leg sacrificed, but the patient was exposed to great additional danger ; for the mortality after amputatimi increases, cmteris paribus, in exact proportion as we approach the trunk. This practice prevailed until Chopart drew some distinctions between the treatment to be pursued, according as the disease affected the anterior or the posterior tarsal bones and articulations. He showed that, when the anterior articulations only were affected, amputation at the junction of the astragalus and calcaneum with the scaphoid and cuboid—an operation which goes by the name of " Ghopart's amputation "—ought to be performed ; thus removing the whole of the disease, and allowing the patient to recover with a shortened foot, with the heel preserved—one on which he could bear tlie weight of his body, and which would be highly useful to him. The next step in the conservative surgery of the lower extremity, in cases of diseased foot, was the operation introduced by Syme—that of disarticulation at the ankle-joint. This was certainly a great advance ; for, the flap being taken from the heel, the patient has a stump on which he can bear firmly. The operation is also a very safe one. According to 0. Weber, only 17 deatli? occurred in 101 cases of this operation. I have performed it many timi^ without a death. With the introduction of anaesthetics. Conservative Surgery made grt-i: strides ; and I think Conservatism in Surgery may be regarded as tl- necessary result of Ansesthesia. For, although operations of this kind wei. performed years ago by Park, the Moreaus, and others, and their utihi} demonstrated, yet the operations of gouging, scraping, and partial resection were so painful and prolonged that patients dreaded to submit to, and Surgeon^ declined to undertake, them. Of late years Surgeons have learned to dis- criminate disease of one part of the tarsus from that of another, and to apply appropriate treatment to each.