59 SYMPTOMS OF PHLEBITIS, outer coat. The surrounding tissues are usually oedematous. In septic or infective phlebitis the walls of the vein are softened, and often give way opposite the disintegrating portions of the clot ; and wherever this happens a oUection of pus forms outside the vessel. The conditions of the thrombi in inflamed veins have already been sufficiently described (see Venous Throm- bosis). Microscopic examination shows the coats of the vein to be infiltrated with small round cells ; the endothelium is at first swollen, and if softening of the thrombus takes place, is lost in the disintegrating clot. Symptoms.—In idiopathic or gouty phlebitis of a superficial vein the symptoms are very evident. The patient has usually suffered from varicose veins before the attack. The inflammation is localized, usually afi'ecting a few^ inches of the vessel, and sometimes two or more parts at the same time. The vein becomes hard, swollen, knobbed, and painfal, the knobs constituting distinct enlargements opposite the valves, or in the pouch-like dilatations of the varicose vein. The skin covering it assumes a reddish purple colour, and there may be stiffness, or inability to move the limb. There may perhaps be no pain when the limb is at rest, but in some cases severe shocks of pain, resembling neuralgia, dart along the line of the vein. In all cases there is acute tenderness over the course of the vessel. There is always some oedema around the inflamed vein, but if a single superficial vein is affected there is but little swelling of the parts that supply it with blood, owing to its free communications with the deep veins. When the deep veins are affected the most marked signs are deep-seated acute pain and tenderness, with marked oedema of the parts from which the vein derives its blood. This oedematous condition of the limb is a most important diagnostic sign of deep-seated j)hlebitis when the vein cannot be felt (as in the pelvis for instance), and may be the first symptom observed, coming on either suddenly or gradually. The oedema may give rise to a hard, white, tense condition of the limb, which pits on pressure, though in some cases the hardness is too great for this, as is seen in the ordinary "w^hite leg" following parturition. Occasionally in deep phlebitis the limb may suddenly swell to a considerable size without there being any subcutaneous oedema. In phlebitis of the deep veins of the leg and thigh, the calf of the aff'ected limb may suddenly enlarge, with great pain and much distension of the superficial veins with fluid blood, but without any subcutaneous oedema. As the inflammation subsides the pain and tenderness disappear ; and if superficial, the distended vein, with its solid contents, becomes more clearly defined. In varicose veins complete obliteration of the vessel may take place, the hard cord gradually diminishing in size till it is no longer perceptible. If the deep-seated veins are aff'ected the oedema continues long after the signs of inflammation have disappeared, perhaps for many months, till eitlier the channel of the vein has been restored or the superficial veins have enlarged sufficiently to carry back the blood without difficulty. If suppuration takes place in phlebitis of a superficial vein, the symptoms are those of an ordinary acute abscess. When the deep veins are aff'ected, the symptoms are less clear until the accumulation becomes of sufficient size to give a distinct sense of fluctuation. In these cases there is but little fear of pyaemia, as the vein is closed by a firm adherent clot on each side of the part in which suppuration is taking place. After the resulting abscess has been opened, however, spreading septic phlebitis, followed by pyemia, may occur unless