NERVOUS AFFECTIONS OF THE LARYNX. 73^ Siu-eon. Local treatment can at most give some slight relief. Mackenzie recommended soothing inhalations, such as the compound tincture of benzoin, or the insufflation of from one-eighth to one-fourth of a gram of morphia diluted with starch and oxychlorate of bismuth, twice a day. J^rom halt a o-rain to a grain of iodoform may advantageously be added. Good results have been obtained by Heryng of Warsaw, Krause of Berlin, and others, by the use of lactic acid. This may be painted' on the ulcers as a solution, crradually increased from 20 to 80 per cent., the application being made every day or less often. A more thorough method consists in anaesthetizing the larynx with a 10 per cent, cocaine spray, and then scraping the ulcers with a laryngeal curette, and thoroughly applying pure lactic acid by means ot a small plug of cotton wool held in laryngeal forceps. The dyspnoea is rarely such as to necessitate tracheotomy. The difficulty in swallowing when due merely to pain may be reheved by the application of a 20 per cent, solution of cocaine to the larynx by means of a brush, or a -4 per cent, solution in spray with an ordinary spray-producer, before a meal. If it arises from the food finding its way into the larynx, the patient must be fed by means of a tube, the passage of which may be facilitated by the application of cocaine. ^ Complications of Chronic laryngitis.—In all cases of chronic laryn- gitis there is a tendency to acute inflammation supervening on the chronic disease. The affection may then prove fatal by the induction of cedema .trlotcidis, often coming on with great rapidity. Necrosis of the Cartilages of^ the Larynx is most commonly a complication of the more advanced stages of syphihtic laryngitis, and less frequently of tuberculous disease. It has been known in rare cases to follow typhoid fever, and still more rarely to occur without any evident cause. It gives rise to copious expectoration of large quantities of fetid puriform sputa, often streaked with blood, and occasionally containing masses of necrosed and usually calcified cartilage. In many cases abscesses form outside the tube, and after much irritation and distress open externally; and not unfrequently they are so extensive as to undermine and disorganize the greater portion of the tissues of the anterior part of the neck. Where they correspond to the necrosed patches of cartilage, they give rise to aerial fistulfe, through which bubbles of air escape during respiration. Tracheotomy is often required in these cases. In cases of long-standing laryngeal disease, either syphilitic or tuberculous, it has been proposed by Bryant to perform tracheotomy with the view of giving the diseased organ rest, the operation being undertaken, not for the relief of laryngeal obstruction, but with the object of aiding other curative means in an otherwise intractable disease. This suggestion appears to be founded on sound principles, and is of peculiar importance when we consider that patients suffering from chronic laryngeal disease are never safe from the sudden super- vention of cedema glottidis. Whenever acute inflammation supervenes, with a tendency to oedema about the glottis, the patient should be narrowly watched, as he may be carried off by the sudden swelling of the lips of the rima, or by the occurrence of spasm. In such cases tracheotomy may have to be per- formed ; and this must not be delayed until the patient falls into an asphyxial condition. Nervous Affections of the Larynx occur both in children and in adults. In children the affection, commonly called Iiaryngismus Stridulus, is frequently associated with rickets. The child is seized, often without previous