267 CARIES. (c.) Caries sicca or dry caries. In this variety of caries extensive destruc- tion of the bony matter may occur without suppuration, the granulation tissue being in part absorbed and in part undergoing ossification. Dry caries is must commonly met with in the bodies of the vertebras, and occasionally in the articular surfaces of bojies, as, for instance, in the head of the humerus. {d.) Caries fungosa or fimcjating caries. This name has been applied to those cases in which the granulation tissue grows exuberantly, with rapid destruction of the bony cancelli. It is most common in the articular ends of bones ; the granulation tissue fungates into the joint, after destruction of the cartilage, and leads to secondary infection of the synovial membrane. {e.) Necrotic caries is a very common result of tuberculous disease of cancellous bone. In the process of rarefactive osteitis above described the destruction of the bony trabeculas takes place by gradual absorption through the agency of osteoclasts. Almost invariably, however, minute fragments of bone are found in the tuberculous tissue and represent portions of cancelli which have become completely separated, and are indeed minute sequestra. In necrotic caries this same process occurs in a more marked degree, and thus we find in the cavity of the chronic abscess, or imbedded in a mass of caseous material, a portion of necrosed cancellous bone often of considerable size. The sequestrum is soft and spongy as the result of the rarefactive osteitis which had already in part destroyed it ; its enlarged cancellous spaces being occupied by granulation tissue. In another variety of necrosis due to tuberculous osteitis the sequestrum presents characters quite difi'erent from those above described. Instead of being soft and spongy it is very dense and sclerosed, the microscope showing- that the trabecule are much thickened, and the cancellous spaces occupied by tuberculous tissue which may be calcareous. The separation of such a sclerosed area of bone as a sequestrum depends upon the spread of rarefactive osteitis around it with destruction of all its connecting trabeculas. Sequestra of this kind are most commonly found in the articular extremities of bones. • They are often superficial, and more or less wedge-shaped, so that Konig has suggested that they are the result of embolism. This view cannot be accepted, for, as Cheyne remarks, it fails to explain the fact that the bone shows unmis- takeable evidence of the active growth which preceded its death. When tubercle of bone becomes quiescent or undergoes cure, condensation of the rarefied bone takes place, and the tuberculous granulation tissue under- goes fibroid degeneration or becomes calcareous. Remains of the tubercle may howevei' sometimes be found at long periods after all evidences of acti\-e disease have disappeared, a fact which is in keeping with the well-known tendency of the disease to recur after years of apparent cure. It is necessary here to state that the term Caries is applied to any chronic destructive inflammation of bone whatever its cause may be. Caries is not a disease, but is the result of various conditions which lead to rarefactive osteitis, with or without suppuration. Tubercle is undoubtedly by far the most common cause of this destructive inflammation of bone, and it will be convenient to state the various facts upon which this view is based. In the first place, the histological characters of the granulation tissue which occupies the cancellous spaces and the various changes which it undergoes are in every respect similar to those met with in tuberculous tissue elsewhere. Secondly, the tubercle bacillus can usually be demonstrated in the diseased tissues if