366 DISEASES OF JOINTS. Diagnosis.—The only condition likely to be confounded with a loose body IS the displacement of one of the interarticular fibro-cartilages of the knc The distinction can usually be made by observing that immediately after the sudden attack of pain the knee can be completely extended when it is due lu the presence ol" a loose body, as this rarely if ever remains jammed betwc<n the articular surfaces ; while a displaced fibro-cartilage usually remains out <il position until replaced by manipulation or movement of the joint, and until this is effected complete extension is impossible (see Vol. I., p. 708). Treatment.—The palliative treatment consists in supporting the joint with an elastic bandage or knee-cap, so as to limit its movements, and thus prevent the liability to recurrence of the attacks of pain ; and in this way the fixati(iii and ultimate absorption of the cartilage may sometimes be obtained. This 1 have several times seen to occur in patients who either refused to be operate < I on, or in whom an operation was not thought advisable. Any inflammation that has been excited requires to be subdued by proper local treatment. In all operations for the removal of loose cartilages antiseptic precautions of tin most rigorous character should be adopted. By their aid joints may be opened and explored, and foreign bodies extracted with a freedom and safety othei-- wise unattainable. If the cartilage occasion frequent suflFering, so as to interfere seriously with the utility of the limb, and if it appear to be of large size, and to be loose and single, means may be taken for its extraction. But it must be borne in mind that any operation for its removal by which the joint is opened, becomes a source of danger to limb and even to life unless efficient means are adopted for the prevention of septic arthritis. Although by the proper use of anti- septics this danger may be averted with almost absolute certainty, it is wiser not to undertake the operation without warning the patient of the possible consequences that may follow. No operation should be undertaken so long as the joint is in an irritated state, as the result of a recent attack of pain and inflammation ; this must first be subdued, and then the operation may be proceeded with ; nor should it be done if the patient's health be broken. The extraction of the foreign body has been performed in two ways : by direct incision into the joint, and by subcutaneous section. In the operation by direct incision the patient must in the first instance make those movements by which he usually gets the cartilage fixed in the joint. As soon as the Surgeon feels it (as this operation is commonly required in the knee), he pushes it to one side of the patella, where he fixes it firmly with his forefinger and thumb, and an ansesthetic may then be administered. The incision is then made down to the capsule of the joint over the loose body. All bleeding should then be arrested, after which the incision may be carried through the capsule and synovial membrane and the loose body may be squeezed out or extracted by means of a sharp hook. Unless the wound be large it is wiser not to close it by sutures ; an antiseptic dressing may be applied and the limb rigidly fixed on a proper splint. In cases in which the body is very large, or in which much manipulation of the joint has been necessary so that some synovial effusion may be expected, it may be advisable to insert a drainage- tube for a few days, but, as a rule, this is not necessary. The wound should be irrigated during the operation, and great care taken to prevent the entrance of air into the articular cavity. Before the introduction of antiseptic surgery the foreign body was sometimes removed through a valvular wound made by