TUMOURS OF THE GROIN. 947 ■discharging at the uavel. The treatment of. these fistuliB is extremely unsatisSctory. The application of the cautery to the oiifice is of little use, and plastic operations almost invariably fail. If the disease does not give much trouble it is better treated by the application of a pad and attention to cleanliness. If there is a complete artificial anus after gangrenous hernia, a cure must be attempted by the means already described in the chapter on hernia. Urinary Fistuke are very rare, and result from imperfect closure of the urachus. They are sometimes associated with obstruction in the urethra. An attempt may be made to close the fistula by a plastic opera- tion. Any source of obstruction in the urethra or bladder must be dealt with. Biliari/ Fisttilm also have been met with ; they usually result from inflammation of the gall-bladder, with adhesion to the parietes, and the buiTowing of an abscess downwards. TUMOURS OF THE GROIN. Tumours of the groin may develop primarily in that region, or descend into it from the abdomen. In making the diagnosis the first point is to ascertain \ whether pulsation is present. PiilsaMng tumours are either aneurisms, I pulsating sarcomata or fluid tumours with communicated pulsation. The I distinction of these diseases is fully given at pp. 112 and 324, Vol. II. Non- i Pulsating Tumours may be divided into the reducible and irreducihle. The reducible tumours are either hernia, varix of the saphena vein, or abdominal abscesses passing under Poiipart's ligament. The diagnosis of these various diseases is given at p. 880, Vol. II. In distinguishing the irreducible tumours, irreducible hernia must first be excluded. The remaining tumours may be fluid or solid. The fluid tumours are chronic abscesses of the lymphatic glands or cystic growths of various kinds. The diagnosis here is easy : the irregular hardened outline of glandular abscess, its rapid development, and softening from a previously indurated state, will distinguish it from the tense, clearly-defined outline, smooth and elastic feel of the slowly developing and very chronic cystic growth. (The Solid tumours may be enlarged glands, a retained testicle, or new growths. The new growths may be simple or malignant. When malignant they may be primary sarcomata or secondary carcinomata following primary disease of the penis or skin of the leg. The history of the case, the feel of the tumour, the rapidity of its progress, the extent of contamination of neighbouring parts, and the other signs that serve as diagnostic differences between simple and malignant growths, will enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis with sufficient accuracy. The treatment of most of these conditions has already been described, but a few words may be said here on the removal of solid or cystic tumours of the groin by operation. In undertaking such proceedings the relation of the growth to the great vessels must be carefully considered. If the tumour merely presses on the vessels, causing, perhaps, much solid oedema of the limb, the removal may be attempted, but if it seems to implicate and surround them and to be fixed to neighbouring parts it is wiser not to attempt any operation. 3 p 2