INGUINAL COLOTOMY. 919 enema may be adminisbered, and in this way the obstruction maybe overcome. If these means do not succeed, opium may be administered, and sometimes after some weeks, the obstruction may give way. H. 0. Thomas, who paid considerable attention to this subject, states that this frequently occurred in iiis practice, and that he was able to prevent the early return of the obstruc- tion by keeping the patient on the restricted diet already mentioned. Although this simple treatment is often successful and affords at least tem- porary relief, operative interference is required in many cases of chronic intes- tinal obstruction. Leaving out of consideration the comparatively rare cases of chronic intussusception, the probabilities are that the obstruction is due to a stricture of the large intestine. Theoretically the ideal treatment of such a case would be to perform laparotomy and, if a stricture of the large intestine be found, to excise the diseased portion of the bowel and suture together the upper and lower ends. Such an operation hardly comes within the bounds of practicabihty when actual obstruction is present, although it may, in suitable cases, be undertaken subsequently, after the obstruction has been relieved by simpler means (see Chapter LIII.). Practically the treatment usually adopted consists in opening the large intestine above the obstruction (colotomy), but an alternative method in some cases consists in establishing a communication between some part of the bowel above the obstruction and that below, as suggested by Senn (intestinal anastomosis). Colotomy.—The operation required to give exit to the intestinal contents is of two kinds. In one the intestine is opened by an incision opening the peritoneum through the abdominal wall, usually in the left iliac fossa. In the other it is opened in the loin by cutting between the layers of the meso-colon, being thus exposed where it is uncovered by peritoneum. Colotomy may be required for the following conditions :— 1. Intestinal obstruction below the descending colon. 2. Volvulus of the sigmoid flexure. 3. Intense pain in defsecation, in ulcerated cancer of the large intestine or rectum. 4. Cancerous fistula between the rectum and bladder. 5. Congenital absence of the rectum. It will be convenient to describe the two methods usually adopted and then to consider their relative advantages. Inguinal Colotomy.—This operation, which is often known as " Littre's Operation^ after the Surgeon who proposed in 1710 that in these cases the sigmoid flexure of the colon should be opened in the left iliac region. It was not, however, until 177G that any operation of the kind was performed, when Pillore of Rouen was the first to make an artificial anus in the adult, for relief of retention of faeces ; this he did, not according to Littre's method, but by opening the caecum in the right ihac region. Fine, of Geneva, in 1797, opened the transverse colon in the umbilical region, in a case of retention of fa3ces produced by a " scirrhus " of the upper part of the rectum. Of late years the operation has been extensively ])ractised, and various improvements suggested by Harrison Cripps, H. W. Allingham, Maydl and others. Inguinal colotomy may conveniently be performed by the following method, which in most respects is identical with that recommended by Cripps. An imaginary line is drawn from the umbilicus to the anterior superior spine of the left ilium, and an incision two and a hnlf inches long is made, crossing