4 M 2 SPERMATOBRE&A. ^267 cachexia, will poiat to the malignant nature of the tumom. J" '^J^^; "J doubt and difficulty an exploratory puncture ma,y 'JV^^^^^^^^^^ of the .rrooTe in the needle or of the fine cannula will probably determine tne , tote oTthe^i!^^^^^ I„ „,„re than one instance, in wh ch there was much "^1 have seen the true nature of the disease cleared up m this way. SPEEMATORBHCEA AND IMPOTENCE. Various forms of debility, of loss of power, or of irregularity of action in the re"organs of the male, are confounded together under the terms i Spermltorrhcea and Impotence. These conditions require a more careful Sration on the part of the educated Surgeon tl-n they have hitherto received, as their existence is a source of much distress to the sufferer. They , are certainly one cause of conjugal unhappiness, leading perhaps to infidelity , on the part of the wife, and occasionally even to suicide of the husband. These affections, which are of extreme frequency amongst all classes ot the oommunity, have scarcely received that attention on the part of the profession o-enerally which their importance deserves ; the unfortunate sufferers thus are too often driven into the hands of those pestilent quacks who flourish m the metropolis, and infest almost every town in the country, by whom they are not unfrequently ruined in health as well as in purse. The Sexual Melancholia that accompanies these conditions is one of their more striking characteristics. The patient is languid in manner, depressed m spirits, his countenance is pale and haggard, eye dull, expression listless, and he is devoid of all energy. He takes no interest in the ordmaiy affairs of life, his whole thoughts are concentrated on his own condition, and he feels himself degraded as being unfit for that duty which is alike the first and the lowest of man. This state of mind is commonly the result of some local irritation or disease, re-acting on a morbidly sensitive nervous system ; and on examination, the Surgeon will commonly find some local condition that has been the start- ing-point of the mental malady. Balanitis, phimosis, or varicocele in the male are common occasioning causes. But the most frequent direct exciting cause is undoubtedly masturbation. We may recognize at least three distinct varieties of generative debility in the male, which may in some cases amount to actual impotence : 1, True Spei-matorrhoea, or Seminal Flux ; 2, Spasmodic Spermatorrhoea, or Sperma- tospasmos ; and, 3, Aspermia, or Want of Seminal Secretion. 1. True Spermatorrhoea, or Seminal Flux, is rare, and is met with ohiefly between the ages of eighteen and thu'ty. It is commonly the conse- quence of masturbation, or of debihty of the generative organs induced by gonorrhoea, or of the continued struggle to repress the natural sexual desires by a life of enforced continence. In this condition there is a mixture of irritability and of debihty. The generative organs are excited by slight emotional causes, or by trivial and ordinary physical stimuli—a thought, a look, a word, the movement of a carriage, the effort of straining at stool, will excite the secretion of the testes, which the debilitated state of the parts allows to escape with a feeble ejaculatory effort, or in a kind of leakage of a few