8sS HERNIA. mouly attended with fatal results ; it is not, however, necessarily so l twice happened in my practice ; and in both cases the patient I'Lv^^^^^^^^ an old woman on whom I operated for femoral hernia of very al st th" sac sloughed away, exposing nearly the whole of Scarpa's triande Sl a as much distinctness as if it had been dissected ; but, although in muc dtl for a time fi^m an acute attack of peritonitis, she ultimately recovered ^ Artificial Anus and Faecal Fistula.-When an aperture exists'in fh. bowel by which the whole of the intestinal contents eLpe extern l y tt condition IS denominated an artificial anus. When but a small por fo'a . escapes, the greater part finding its way through the natural anu^s a W nsMa ^. said to exist. The quantity of feculent discharge necessarily deS upon the extent of destruction of the intestinal coats ; and its charS on the par of the gut that is injured. The escape takes place involuntarily, and IS usually continuous. ^ This condition may occur in several ways. Thus the gut may be accident- ally wounded during the operation, and the faeces may afterwards continue to be discharged through the aperture so made; or it may have been gan- grenous, and have given way into the sac before the operation ; or the Surgeon may have intentionally laid open a gangrenous portion of intestine, so as to tacilitate the escape of the faces. In some cases in which the bowel has been severely nipped, and is dark and congested, though it have not actually fallen into a state of gangrene, it may not be able to recover itself after its return into the abdominal cavity, but will give way in the course of three, four, six, or even ten days after the operation. In these cases, a small quantity of fiBculent matter is first observed in the dressings ; and gradually a greater dis- charge appears, until at last the fistulous opening is completely established. In such cases, it is of importance to observe that, although the bowel gives way within the peritoneum, the fseces do not become extravasated into the cavity, but escape externally. This is owing to the portion of the bowel that is nipped losing its peristaltic action, and consequently remaining where It is put back; whilst the parts in the neighbourhood inflame, throw out a coagulable exudation, and become consolidated to each other and to the parietal peritoneum, so as to include the gangrenous portion of the gut, and completely to circumscribe it. It is consequently of great importance, in cases of this kind, not in any way to disturb the adhesions that have formed between the sides of the aperture in the gut and the neck of the sac. The Pathology of Artificial Anus is commonly as follows. The edges of the aperture in the gut become firmly adherent to the abdominal wall; aud whether the whole or only a portion of the calibre of the intestine be destroyed, the apertures of the upper and lower end, though at first lying almost in a continuous line, soon unite at a more or less acute angle. These are at first similar in size, and present no material differences in shape or appearance ; as the disease becomes more chronic, they gradually alter in their characters ; the lower aperture, being no longer used for the transmission of fseces, gradually becomes narrower, until at last it may be almost completely obliterated ; whilst the upper portion of intestine becomes dilated in consequence of there usually being some slight obstruction to the outward passage of the fseces. The mesentery opposite the aperture becomes drawn out into a kind of pro- longation or spur, the full importance of which was first pointed out by Dupuytren. This spur-like process projects between the two apertures, and