URINARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. 1056 I the point of the finger, and its position thus accurately determined. The forceps having- been introduced closed, the finger is withdrawn, wiien a jriigh of fluid will usually take place through the wound, if it have not already escaped at the time when the incision is made through the prostate. By thig gush the calculus may sometimes be carried into the grasp of the instrument • most commonly, however, the stone requires to be felt for with the closed forceps. When its position has been ascertained, usually at the fundus, the blades of the instrument are opened ; and by pushing one against the wall of Fig, 868.—Direction of Forceps iu Extraction of Stone. the bladder, and giving it a slight shake, the calculus generally drops between them ; though occasionally it is somewhat troublesome to seize, and this, indeed, often constitutes the most tedious and annoying part of the operation. Fergusson advised holding the forceps transversely, opening them as widely as possible, then giving a quarter turn so as to make the lower blade scoop along the floor of the bladder, when on closing the forceps the stone will usually be caught. The stone is then drawn downwards through the wound. If it be small, it may be extracted at once without any difficulty ; if it be of moderate size, the finger should be introduced along the blades, in order to feel whether it is in a proper position for extraction. If its long axis lie across the wound, this must be changed ; and it must then be withdrawn by a kind of to-and-fro movement in the direc- Fig. 869.—Position of Finger and Scoop m -0,1 i • /tt o^•Q^ Extracting Stone. tiou of the axis of the pelvis (ing. 8bb). Should the stone unfortunately be broken, or should there be several small calculi, the fragments may generally be best removed by means of the scoop (Fig. 869). In the event of fracture occurring, it will be necessary to wash out the bladder repeatedly with tepid water, injected by means of a brass syringe through a tube introduced by;the wound. If the perinteum be very deep, and the prostate enlarged, it may happen that the neck of the bladder is so far removed from the surface that the finger cannot reach its interior. In these circumstances, the Surgeon must be careful, in passing the forceps, that the instrument do not slip to the side of the incision, the guide and support of the index-finger being lost. In two or