1293 OVARIOTOMY: THE OPERATION. Fig. 969.—Ligature of the Ovarian Pedicle (double loop). The Dedicle is now examined and its connexion with the uterus clearly ^ J^pH ^ t a nile 1^ is most convenient to tie it before cutting away the It': b^;iftil: I may be temporarily -red with s..^^ forcens durino- division, and then dealc with subsequently. Either ot tne two : Ss her; represented may be employed for this purpose^ J a shown in Fig. 9GS) is the one most generally adopted. A single thiead is hrst passea a point just internal to the large plexus of veins in the outer edge of the pedicle, and securely tied so as to include the plexus, to- gether with the ovarian artery which lies along this border ; the pedicle is next transfixed cen- trally with a double ligature passed by means of the handled needle (Fig. 971), and is tied in equal halves care being; taken that the , n 1 loops interlace at the seat of puncture. In the f 970-the separate outer-edge hgature is usually dispensed with, ihe pedicle is transfixed as before, but with a needle carrying only a single thread, doubled upon itself ; after withdrawal of the needle, one end of the hgature is brought half round the pedicle, passed through the projecting loop on the side opposite to its own point of exit, and thence carried onward to unite with the remain- ing end of the hgature round the other half of the pedicle, which is thus secured by a continuous twisted loop. Pressure-forceps are then applied to either border on the distal side of the hgatures, and the tumour is cut away. Finally, a single loop of stout _ -,■ ^ i u 1 • j silk is tied firmly round the stump, either exactly in or immediately behind the groove formed by the previous ligatures. All the threads _ should be cut short, and the pedicle be returned, without, however, removing the Fig. 970.—Ligature of the Ovarian Pedicle (twsted loop). Fig. 971.—Curved Pedicle-needle. pressure-forceps, which are left on in order to facilitate the final examination of the stump before closing. The condition of the remaining ovary should next be ascertained ; and if diseased, it should be removed. In dealing with tumours the base of which is implanted between the