I052 UlilNARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. part iuto the groove of the staff, above the index-finger, which protects presses to the right the recttim lying beneath it (Fig. 863). When the knife is felt to be well lodged in the groove, it's handle is slightly depressed, so that the point may be raised ; at the same time the blade should be somewhat lateralized so that its side lies parallel to the ramus of the ischium. If the edge be turned too directly downwards towards the mesial line, the rectum may be wounded ; and if it be directed too much outwards the internal pudic artery will be endangered ; hence the mid course is the proper one. The Surgeon, keeping the knife steadily fn this position, and pressing the point firmly against the side of the groove of the staff, which he must never for a moment lose, pushes it forwards, dividing the membranous part of the urethra, the anterior part of the prostate gland and the sheath enclosing it, and a few fibres of the levator ani (levator prostata), and thus makes an entry Fig. 864.—Muscles of PerinaRuni (from a model by Rauber). The extent of the superficial incision is indicatt 'l by a thick line ; that of the deep part of the incision by the continuous part of the line only. into the bladder (Fig. 683) ; he then withdraws the knife, keeping its back against the staff, so as not to enlarge the extent of the incision in the prostate. Through this, and along the staff, he then pushes his left index-finger until it reaches the bladder, when he endeavours to feel the calculus with its tip. Should his finger be short, the perineeum deep, or the prostate enlarged, he may be unable to reach the bladder in this way ; and must then introduce a blunt gorget, as recommended by Cheselden, in order to dilate the aperture in the prostate. If he use his finger for this purpose, he gives it a twist or two after passing it through the prostate, so as to enlarge the aperture through which it is entered. Having made sure that it is in the bladder, and having, if possible, felt the stone, he directs the assistant to withdraw the staff from the urethra. Here let us pause, and examine the principal points in the first and second stages of the operation. It will be observed that, in accordance with the best authorities upon this subject, and Avith my own experience, I have recoiu-