CHRONIC INTERSTITIAL MASTITIS. 775 pigeon's egg, seldom being larger. It may distinctly increase in size at the mLtrnal periods, and diminish in the intervals. Its surtace is often s ightly nodular, the nodules being formed by the small, tense cysts already mentioned^ If.it be grasped and gently pulled upon with one hand while the nipple is held with the^other, so as to make the ducts passing from it tense, it can easily be recoo-nized that it is part of the mamma, and not an isolated tumour. Un pinching up the skin over it, a dimple may form, as the areolar tissue of the subcutaneous fat is continuous with that penetrating between the lobules ot tbe mamma, which is involved in the interstitial inflammation. A similar nodule may not unfrequently be found either in another part of the same breast or on the opposite side. The disease may be painless, or may be associated with severe neuralgia, worse during the menstrual period. In the early stages there may be slight tenderness, but this is seldom marked, and is often wanting when shrinking is far advanced. There may in some cases be a slight enlarge- ment of the axillary glands. The Diagnosis will be considered with reference to chronic abscess, cysts, adenoma, and carcinoma. From chronic abscess it differs in not arising in connexion with pregnancy or lactation, and in the absence of oedema over it. The dimpling of the skm in a chronic abscess is more marked, and the centre of the swelling is often softer than the periphery. From a c/jst it is distinguished by the absence of elasticity, but it has already been pointed out that cysts are often present in the indurated lobule. From an adenoma it can usually be readily distinguished by its ill-defined outhne, and its connexion with the nipple, showing that it is an altered piece of the mammary gland and not an encapsuled tumour. If more than one lobule is affected the diagnosis is more easy, as true tumours of the breast are usually single. From scirrhus the diagnosis may be impossible. The long duration of the induration may sometimes prove its simple nature, and if there are several lobules affected, or similar nodules in the opposite breast, it is very improbable that the disease is cancerous. If the nodule is single the following points may serve to make a diagnosis. The simple induration is tough rather than hard, whilst scirrhous cancer is stony ; the simple induration is usually less defined and less rounded. In both diseases the surface of the induration may be nodular. In lobular mastitis the skin is not distinctly implicated, and only in exceptional cases can any dimpling be obtained by pinching up the skin over the affected part. In scirrhus the dimpling of the skin is always an early symptom. The simple induration does not cause retraction of the nipple. The absence of • enlargement of the axillary glands is of httle value, for it should be the object of the Surgeon to make the diagnosis of cancer before any implication of the glands has taken place. In some cases it is impossible to determine with any certainty the nature of the disease. Under these circumstances it is not justifiable to advise the patient to wait until time has cleared up the doubt. By so doing she is robbed of her last chance of cure if the disease be cancerous. It is much wiser to cut out the indurated lobule and investigate its nature by microscopic examination. The Treatment of chronic interstitial mastitis is unsatisfactory. Blistering, prolonged painting with iodine, and other forms of counter-irritation, produce little or no effect. Belladonna may be applied to relieve the pain. Pressure may possibly be of service in some instances, and probably the cases of