CAUSES OF DEFORMITIES OF NECK AND LIMBS. 525 tion or an ankylosed joint, may lead to permanent deformity. It may be taken as a o-eneral patholooical law that ligaments, fascia, and to a less extent nmscles, if kept for a'sufficient length of time in a continuously relaxed state, become shortened to accommodate themselves to the position m which they have been placed, and thus render permanent the displacement which origi- nally caused the relaxation. The most marked example of this is seen in cases of neglected psoas abscess amongst the poor, in which the patient has been allowed to lie in bed for months before death -Nvith the knees constantly flexed. After a time complete extension becomes impossible, and dissection proves that this is due to shortening of those ligaments that are relaxed in flexion. A similar shortening of ligaments or fascite may occur after fractures, if the parts be kept for too long a time in one position, more particularly if they be bound and matted together by the pressure of tight bandages. There is no danger however of such a condition being developed in the time ordinarily required for the treatment of a fracture. Some forms of congenital club-foot are believed to be due to a prolonged abnormal position of the limb during intra-uterine life. 2. Contraction of inflammatory new growths or of tissues which have been infiltrated with inflammatory exudations is a fruitful cause of deformities. As examples may be mentioned, the contraction of the cicatrices of burns in any part of the body, acquired talipes equinus from contraction following a deep-seated abscess in the calf, and contracted knee or hip after inflammation of the joint. 3. Derangement of the proper antagonistic action of certain groups of Muscles.—This may arise from a variety of causes. (a.) The Position of the Limb may give one group of muscles an advantage over their opponents : thus, in disease of the knee, the flexed position gives the flexor muscles an advantage over the extensors, and we consequently find that the head of the tibia becomes after a time displaced to a greater or less degree backwards into the ham, merely by the tonic contraction of the muscles without any weakness or paralysis of their opponents. (b.) Paralysis or paresis of one group of muscles, the contractility of their antagonists continuing normal, is a common cause of deformity, as the relative balance of action is destroyed, and the stronger muscles will pull the part over to their side. The causes of this condition may be in the muscles themselves, in the nerve supplying them, or in the central nervous system. The muscle itself is seldom the seat of the primary lesion. G. Y. Poore has pointed out that a single muscle or group of muscles may be weakened, and their contractility in response to electricity impaired by excessive use without sufficient intervals of rest. This is often accompanied by spasm of the oppo- nent muscles, sometimes tonic, but more often clonic, and thus deformity may result. This is not however a common cause of actual deformity. The conductivity of a motor nerve is frequently abolished by wound, injury, pressure of a tumour, exposure to cold, or neuritis from other causes. A good example of the effects of lesion of a motor nerve in producing deformity may be seen in the peculiar condition of the hand and forearm, described in Vol. I., p. 503, as resulting from paralysis of the musculo-spiral nerve in certain fractures of the humerus. In paralysis of the facial nerve from cold the face is drawn to the sound side. Internal squint may result from paralysis of the sixth nerve from pressure upon it as it enters the orbit, the external rectus