868 lyfj UINA L HERNIA. mining the characters of the different swellings. I. Varicocek Here th diagnosis may be effected in the way pointed out by Astley Cooper Th,' patient should be placed in the recumbent position, and the swelling reduced the Surgeon then presses upon the external ring with his lingers, taking car,' to cover the whole of it, and desires the patient to stand up. If it be a hernia the tumour cannot descend ; but if it be a varicocele, it will reappear vhUsf the pressure ts leing kept up, the blood being conveyed into it through the spermatic arteries, c. Tumours of the Testis. These may be distinguished from hernia by their solid feel, rounded shape, by the absence of all impulse on coughing, and, especially, by the cord being felt free and clear above them, and the ingninal canal unoccupied, d. Jlcematocele of the Twiica Vaginalis. Here the cause of the swelling, its oval shape, opacity, solid feel, the absence of impulse on coughing, and the defined characters of the cord, will enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. Hernia into the Tunica Vaginalis. Congenital Inguinal Hernia. —After the descent of the testes into the scrotum the communication of the processus vaginalis testis with the peritoneum usually becomes obliterated ; the funicular portion which li4 in front of the Qord remains only as a delicate thread of fibrous tissue,' while the unobliterated testicular portion forms the tunica vaginalis testis. It occasion- ally happens that the funicular portion remains opeu, and along the unobliterated processus vaginalis testis the gut and omentum may descend into the tunica vaginalis, and thus constitute the condition known as congenital inguinal hernia ( Fig. SOfi). It therefore differs from ordinary inguinal; hernia in the fact that the sac is not a new Ibrmation. The hernia is necessarily oblique, ibllowiug the course of the cord. When the testicle has imperfectly descended into the scrotum, the hernia may remain in the groin, but most commonly it reaches the scrotum. , The term " congenital hernia" is apt to be misleading ; the anatomical con- dition which predisposes to the hernia is congenital, but the hernia itself is not. It not unfrequently happens, it is true, that these hernise show them- selves early in life, in infants a few weeks or months old ; though even at these ages the funicular prolongation of the peritoneum may be so completely occluded that the hernia which occurs is ^f an ordinary character. Not un- frequently, however, the hernia does not take place until a considerably later period of life than this, and may suddenly happen in the adult: thus Velpeau relates instances in which it occurred for the first time between the ages of eighteen and twenty-five. I have operated on a man about fiity years of age, in whom, on the most careful inquiry, it would appear that the protrusion had not shown itself until he was about thirty. Signs and Diagnosis.—The signs of hernia in the tunica vaginalis closely resemble those of the ordinary oblique ; most commonly, however, if scrotal, the tumour is much rounded, and the neck feels narrow and constricted. The testis, also, cannot be felt separate from the tumour, but is surrounded by, and, as it were, buried in, the substance of the hernia, through which it may sometimes be felt at the lower and back part of the scrotum. In an ordinary Fig. 806.—Hernia into tlie Tunica Vaginalis.