^78 FEMORAL HERNIA. passing through the crural ring, the hernia enters the crural canal win i extends for about half an inch down the thigii in front of the pectiiZ muscle, and is covered by the iliac prolongation of the fascia lata Ak i approaches the lower corner of the saphenous opening where the can i terminates, it passes under the falciform process of the fascia lata and on upon the thigh through the saphenous aperture ; here it expands' becomeH rounded, and has a tendency to turn upwards over Poupart's 'ligament (Fig. 809), lying in this way upon the iliac region, and sometimes even ascendmg to some distance upon the anterior abdominal wall. In the descent of the hernia through this course, it first pushes before it the peritoneal sac and then receives an investment of the subserous areolar tissue—the septum crurale, a mass of dense areolar tissue, containing fat and lymphatics, occu- pying the crural ring. This septum often becomes incorporated with the covering derived from the crural sheath, thus constituting the fascia propria Fig. 810.—1. Femoral Hernia ; 2. Feirioral Vein ; 3. Femoral Artery, giving ofif", 4, Common Ti-unk of Epigastric and Obturator Arteries, and 5, Epigastric Artery ; 6. Spermatic. Cord. of this hernia, which is commonly thickened, laminated, and of an opaque fatty structure, like omentum. As the hernia continues to descend, it comes into relation with the cribriform fascia, which occupies the saphenous opening ; and, lastly, it pushes before it the integumental structures. As the tumour descends through this course, it necessarily comes into relation with very important parts (Fig. 810). Thus it is separated from the femoral vein solely by the septum of the sheath of the vessels. It has the epigastric artery above and to its outer side ; and the spermatic cord in the male, or the round ligament in the female, almost immediately above it. The obturator artery, when arising in the normal manner from the internal iliac, does not come into relation wnth the neck of the sac ; but when it takes its origin, as it not unfrequently does, from the external iliac, the epigastric, or the common femoral, it may have important relations to this part of the hernia. Most commonly, in these circumstances, it passes to the iliac or outer side of the neck, but occasionally it winds round its inner or pubic side, coming