27 OPERATIVE TREATMENT OF NEURALGIA. stretching of the affected nerve is now frequently undertaken in the hope • of relieving, if not completely removing, the affection. This operation Has. already been described (Vol. I., p. 499). It was there pointed out that the effect produced varies considerably according to the size of the nerve operated on. In small nerves, such as those of the face, the conductivity of the nerve is abolished as completely as if it had been divided, but as its continuity is not interrupted, repair always takes place, and after a time its function is restored. In the larger ner^'es, even when considerable force is used, the con- ductivity is not completely abolished, although it may be modified for a time. It is only when great force is used that the breaking up of the medullary sheath observed by Leuterman and Horsley takes place. We have seen that in sciatica, in which the disease is seated in the actual trunk of the nerve, great benefit is usua,lly derived from nerve-stretching, and probably the same result may be hoped for when a similar condition exists in other nerves. In the majority of cases of neuralgia, however, the cause is either some peripheral irritation of the terminal branches or some central disease, and in these but little is to be expected from the operation. In the former case there might be temporary relief until repair of the nerve was accomplished : and in the latter, although experience has shown that there may be some improvement, this is only of a temporary character. When stretching has failed, section of the affected nerve is not unfre- quently recommended as a last chance of the removal of the disease. Simple section of the smaller nerves is now replaced by stretching, which, as has just been stated, temporarily abolishes their conductivity. Division is undertaken with the intention of permanently destroying the continuity of the nerve, and to ensure this about a third or half an inch of the trunk must be cut away. As with stretching, however, it is clear that the operation, though occasion- ally productive of temporary rehef, cannot in most cases be expected to benefit the patient permanently ; for by it the cause of the neuralgia is not removed, and it can consequently be of service only when the pain is peripheral, occasioned by some local irritation existing between the part cut and the terminal branches of the nerve. If the neuralgia depend on any central cause, or on local irritation existing higher up than the point divided, the operation must eventually be useless. Thus, if the source of irritation exist in the terminal branches of the infra-orbital nerve, division of this trunk might be useful ; but if the pain be occasioned by any pressure to which this nerve may be subjected in its passage through its canal by a carious state of the bones, or by disease of the periosteum, it would be unavailing ; though it is remarkable that it not unfrequently happens that there is after these operations a temporary cessation of pain for a few weeks or months. In some of these cases, however, the pain shifts its seat from the branch operated upon to another division of the same trunk : thus, if the infra-orbital have been divided, the inferior dental or submental nerve becomes the seat of pain. Or this may ascend, as it were, to the point at which the nerve was divided ; thus, after amputation for neuralgia of the knee, the pain may return in the stump,' and again when this is removed a second or even third time. Facial or Trigeminal Neuralgia is the most common form of the disease and that for which some kind of operative interference is most often required. The pain in some cases is intense and paroxysmal, and the disease 18 then known as Epileptiform neuralgia or Tic douloureux The pain