COMPLETE EXCISION OF UPPER JAW. 639 -pposite the inner ang-le of the eye, and carried down the side of^ the_ nose, round the ala, and through the centre of the upper lip. Another incision is now made in a horizontal direction below the orbit, by entering the point ot the knife where the first incision commenced, and carrying it directly out- wards in the line of junction of tlie lower eyelid with the cheek, along the odge of the orbit as far as the zygoma. The flap thus formed is thrown (lutwards. This line of incision has the great advantage over the one repre- sented in Fig. 694, that the arteries and nerves of the face are cut near their Terminations, and not through their larger branches. The next step in the operation consists in the division of the bones. ^ This is best done with a jaw-saw and strong cutting-forceps. The central incisor tooth is first extracted on the side on which the jaw is to be removed. The jaw-saw (Fig. 693) is then pushed into the nostril with its edge parallel to the hard palate. Its point must not be directed upwards for fear of injuring the cribriform plate. The saw is then carried through the alveolar border and the palate processes of the superior maxilla and palate bones, cutting through the alveolus of the incisor that has been extracted. No incision must be made with a knife through the soft structures of the hard palate, as they are divided readily and with less hasmorrhage by the saw. Care must be taken not to saw so far as to injure the soft palate. A smaller saw is then taken, and the nasal process divided at the level of the lower margin of the orbit, so that the posterior extremity of the incision shall correspond to the line of the articulation between the superior maxillary and the ethmoid bones. The saw is then carried through the malar bone in such a direction as to reach the anterior extremity of the spheno-maxillary fissure. If the tumour implicates the malar bone extensively, the zygoma must be divided and another saw-cut carried from the spheno-maxillary fissure through the frontal process of the malar bone. The bone-forceps are now applied, first to the malar bone and next to the nasal process. One blade of the forceps (the flat side being directed to the sound bone) is then put into tlie nose, and the other in the mouth in the line of the saw-cut already made. As the blades are closed, the wedge-like action of the forceps forces the bone outwards and fractures its posterior attachments. Unless the bony structures are extensively destroyed by the tumour, the line of fracture runs across the ascending process of the palate bone and the middle part of the two pterygoid plates, the articulation between the superior maxillary and the palate bone, and that between the tuberosity of the palate bone and the pteiygoid plates being too firm to yield. The jaw being now completely separated from its bony attachment, the Surgeon seizes it in the "lion-forceps" with his left hand and wrenches it downwards and outwards, while he cuts away the soft palate irom the attachment to the bone, care being taken not Fis GOV.—Line of Incision in Excision ot the Upper Jaw by External Flap.