CHRONIC CYSTITIS: PATHOLOGICAL CHANGES. 1113 periDoneum is implicated, and diffuse peritonitis set up O^^^^^^^f .^.f^^j^^f- IL occurs, with infiltration of urine in the deep areolar tissue of the pelvis. Very commonly the mischief extpnds to the ureters and kidneys Treatmeutf-The first step in the treatment is, if possible, to render the urine less irritating by diluting it by the free administration of ^^^1^^^^^^^^^^^^ mucilaginous drinks, and by giving liquor potass.^ or bicarbonate of potassimn i,i doses sufficient to neutralize it. The patient must be confined to bed, and hot fomentations or poultices applied over the lower part of the belly, l.ong- continued hot hip-baths usually give great relief. To these means may be added the administratiou of hyoscyamus in full doses and morphia sup- positories. No specific medicines are of any use. No instruments should be used during acute cystitis if they can possibly be avoided ; but should the urine become foul, an attempt may be made to wash out the bladder, as the ■nechanical irritation of the catheter is a lesser evil than an accumulation of putrid mucus and urine. If it be necessary to do this, great gentleness must be used, the quantity of fluid injected being limited to about an ounce ihe diet must be carefully regulated ; no salt or spiced food must be allowed. As a rule a pure milk diet will be found the best. In some severe forms of membranous cystitis occurring m females it has been recommended to clear out the bladder through the dilated urethra and apply a strong solution of nitrate of silver. Chronic Cystitis.—Chronic cystitis is by far the most common morbid condition of the bladder. It may follow acute inflammation, the intensity of the process gradually subsiding, or it may from the first be chronic. It is met with in all cases of stone in the bladder after the disease has existed for a certain time ; in all old and tight strictures ; and it is the inevitable conse- quence of the presence of decomposing urine in the cavity of the bladder. In some cases it is apparently of gouty origin ; but perhaps the most persistent form is that which sometimes follows gonorrhoea, which may be acquired in youth, and lead to life-long misery. Pathological Changes.—On examining the bladder of a patient who has suffered from chronic cystitis, the mucous membrane will usually be found to be of a dark grey or slate colour. As in most cases there has been some exacerbation of the condition immediately before death, dark red or purple patches are usually seen in various parts, especially on the summits of the rug£e. Dilated and tortuous veins commonly ramify on the surface, the blood in which is usually blackened by the contact of the decomposing urine after death. The mucous membrane is tougher and thicker than natural, and not uncommonly there is distinct thickening with induration of the submucous tissue. Ulceration of the mucous membrane is occasionally met with. The muscular coat of the bladder is seldom unaltered, as in the great majority of cases chronic cystitis is associated with conditions which interfere with free micturition. If the obstruction has been of such a kind that no amount of increased force could have emptied the bladder, as in many cases of enlarged prostate, the bladder is dilated, and its muscular coat may be thinned and atrophied with an excess of fibrous tissue between the muscle fibres. In cases of stricture of the urethra, and other obstructions which can be overcome by increased I'orce, the bladder is usually contracted, and its muscular wall greatly hypertrophied and thickened. The hypertrophied fasciculi of muscular tissue form ridges beneath the mucous membrane, having irregular depressions