224 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. of their day, Stanley and Syme, is sufficient evidence of the difficulty attending the diagnosis. Treatment.—It occasionally happens that inguinal aneurisms, even of a very large size, undergo spontaneous cure, or become consolidated by direct pressure conjoined with constitutional treatment; but this has so rarely occurred that such a result cannot be relied on in any one case. Treatment by Compression has been successfully adopted in aneurism of the iliac arteries. Digital compression has been employed in several cases, but more commonly the pressure has been applied by Lister's abdominal tourniquet. Carte's compressor, Signorini's tourniquet or weights. In some cases the proximal pressure has been supplemented by distal compression of the femoral, or by the application of Esmarch's bandage to the limb. In whatever way the treatment is carried out, Murray insists on the importance of complete arrest of the flow of blood through the sac. It is usually necessary to administer an mh Pig. 495.—Diagram showing the incisions in the following operations : Ela. and EU). Ligature of External Iliac according to Abernethy and according to Cooper. L. Abdominal Nephrectomy. Langen- buch's incision. 0. Ovariotomy. ,S. Gastrostomy. aneesthetic during the treatment. The time required for consolidation in the successful cases has vai'ied considerably. Thus, one of Murray's cases was cured in three-quarters of an hour, and one of Heath's (of Newcastle) in twenty minutes. In one under the care of Lawson, in which two tourniquets were applied—one to the abdominal aorta and one to the femoral below the sac— that on the aorta had to be removed at the end of twenty minutes, owing to collapse and vomiting ; the femoral one being maintained in position. When the abdominal compressor was removed the pulsations had already diminished, and at the end of four hours they ceased, the patient making a good recoveiy. In other cases it has been necessary to continue the treatment mtermittmgly for several days. Walsham has collected fifty-eight cases of inguinal aneurism from British and American sources occurring between 1870 and 1885. Treatment by pressure was adopted with success in 10. In 2 more the pulsation ceased, but the patients died shortly afterwards from rupture of an aortic aneurism. In 2 the treatment was directly the cause ot death.