^-^4 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. I Bryant has recoi-ded a case in which he removed a myomatous polypus a« large as a haricot bean fi-om the floor of the prostatic urethra, tlnw"^ perineal incision. The patient, sixty-three years of age, had sutleied from increasingly severe attacks of h^ematuria for six years, with increased queney ot micturition. The prostate, which was greatly enlarged, decrease i" after the operation, and the symptoms were cured. The Vascular Caruncle of the female urethra is met with as a small bright-red pedunculated or sessile tumour, situated most commonly at the lower margin of the urethral orifice. These tumours grow slowly and seldom . attain a size larger than that of a raspberry. They bleed freelv when touched and give rise to very marked symptoms, of which the most important are [ bleeding, painful micturition, and pain during coitus. ♦ Thus the symptoms may closely resemble those of stone, so that patients labouring under this affection are often sounded on the supposition of the existence of a calculus. In structure the vascular caruncle resembles that of erectile tissue, and the surface is papillary and covered with stratified epithelium. The mode of \ origin of these tumours is somewhat doubtful. Pozzi suggests that they arise • from the extension of the hymen, which as he has shown, forms a ring around the urethral orifice, and sometimes remains as a small tongue at its lower margin. Prolapse of the mucous membrane of the urethra may give rise to a very similar appearance. The Treatment consists in snipping off the little vascular growth with scissors and destroying the base with the fine point of a Paquelin's cautery. If the tumour be small and pedunculated this may be done under the influence of cocaine. Primary Sctuamous Carcinoma of the male urethra is extremely rare. Writing in 1890, Marcus Beck was able to collect only ten cases in addition to one recorded by himself; and in only five of the cases was the nature of the disease confirmed by microscopic examination. From a consideration of these cases Beck gives the following description of the disease : " Primary cancer of the urethra occurs in men over fifty, who have most commonly suffered from some previous disease of the canal, usually gonorrhoeal stricture. The most prominent symptom is the gradual formation of a hard lobulated mass round the urethra. Micturition becomes increasingly difficult, and is almost always very painful, far more so than in simple stricture. Haemorrhage, especially before and after micturition, seems to be a common symptom. As the growth extends the corpora cavernosa and their crura become implicated, and the disease advances past the scrotum into the penile portion of the urethra. The glands in the groin enlarge, and the patient becomes cachectic in appearance. The passage of instruments is from the beginning difficult, and is always followed by bleeding. The next stage of the disease is the formation of a foul cavity containing blood-stained purulent fluid in connexion with the urethra. The discharge from this may be recognized escaping from the urethra. As the cavity enlarges a perinseal abscess forms, which reaches the surface, bursts, and leaves a fistula. The carcinomatous growth then extends to the skin and superficial structure along the line of the fistula." In Beck's case at University College Hospital the perinseal tumour was thought to be an inflammatory mass around a small urethral abscess behind a stricture. With the endoscope a tight stricture was seen, and on only one occasion was a filiform bougie passed