99 Meat Puddings. thus acquires, but it does not look nearly as well when served. Beefsteak and Kidney Pudding. Time, to boil, two hours. 421. One pound of rumpsteak; one beef kidney; pepper and salt; and a little flour ; suet paste. Take a pound of nice tender beef, or rumpsteak and beef kidney, cut them into pieces about a quarter of an inch thick, season them well with pepper and salt, and dredge a little flour over them. Lightly butter a round-bottomed pudding-basin, roll out the paste to about half an inch in thickness, and line the basin, then put in the beef and kidney, pour in three or four tablespoonfuls of water, cover a piece of paste over the top, press it firmly together with your thumb, then tie the pudding- basin in a floured cloth, and put it into a saucepan with about four quarts of water ; keep it constantly boiling, adding more boiling water if required. Mutton Pudding. Time, to boil, rather more than two hours. 422. One pound and a half to two pounds of chump-end of the loin of mutton ; one dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and onion ; a teaspoonful of salt and black pepper, mixed; six potatoes, raw; suet paste. Make a paste as for beefsteak pudding. Cut the meat in slices, season it with the herbs, pepper, and salt. Put a layer of meat in the basin, then one of slices of raw potatoes, till the basin is full. Cover it with the crust, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil it in sufficient water. Veal Pudding. Time, one hour, to boil. 423. One pound and a half of veal; three slices of bacon ; a piece of butter the size of an egg ; pepper and salt; a small bunch of thyme ; two or three spoonfuls of water ; suet paste. Cut about two pounds of lean veal into small collops a quarter of an inch in thick- ness, put a piece of butter the size of an egg into a very clean frying-pan to melt, then lay in the veal and a few slices of bacon, a small sprig of thyme, and a sea- soning of pepper and salt, place the pan over a slow fire for about ten minutes, then add two or three spoonfuls of warm water. Just boil it up, and then let it stand to cool. Line a pudding-basin with a good suet crust, lay in the veal and bacon, pour the gravy over it, roll out a piece of paste to form a lid, place it over, press it close with the thumb, tie the basin in a pudding-cloth, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water, keeping it continually boiling until done. Pork Pudding. Time, to boil, two hours and a half. 424. One pound and a half of pork ; three- quarters of a pound of sausage-meat ; a few leaves of sage ; one onion ; pepper and salt; suet crust. Line the pudding basin as before directed, and lay in the slices of pork, add the sausage- meat or slices of a raw sausage, season highly, cover with the crust, and boil in a floured cloth. Puddings may also be made in a similar manner from ox-kidney sliced, and mutton kidneys. Rabbit Pudding. Time, two hours to boil. 425. A small rabbit; a few slices of bacon, or ham ; pepper and salt ; suet paste. Cut a small rabbit into small neat pieces, and have ready a few slices of bacon, or ham. Line a basin with a good suet crust. Lay in the pieces of rabbit with the bacon, or ham intermixed, season to your taste with pepper and salt, and pour in a cupful of water. Cover the crust over the top, press it securely with the thumb and finger, and boil it. Suet Pudding. Time, to boil, one hour and n quarter. 426. One pound of flour ; half a pound of beef suet; one egg ; a pinch of salt ; a gill of water. Mix the flour very dry with finely chopped suet; add the eggs and a pinch of salt; make it into a paste with the water, beating it all rapidly together with a wooden spoon. Flour a pudding cloth, put the paste into it, tie the cloth tightly, and plunge it into boil- ing water. The shape may be either a roll or a round ball. When it is done,untie the cloth, turn the pudding out, and serve very hot.