Baked and Boiled Puddings. “5 Well beat the yolks of two eggs, and mix them with the pounded sugar and the white wine. Simmer it over a slow fire for a few minutes, stirring it constantly, and pour it round the pudding. College Puddings. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 530. A quarter of a pound of bread- crumbs ; a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuits ; a quarter of a pound of beef-suet; two ounces of candied orange or lemon peel; a quarter of a pound of currants ; two ounces of loaf sugar ; yolks of four eggs. Mix the bread-crumbs, Naples biscuits pounded, beef-suet chopped very fine, the candied orange peel cut into shreds,' the sugar pounded, and the currants washed and dried. Mix the above with the yolks of four beaten eggs till all becomes a paste, then-cut them in pieces of a flat shape, fry them in lard over a gentle fire till brown, and put them on a napkin. Sauce in a tureen. Cherry Pudding. Time, to boil, two hours. 531. One pint of milk; three tablespoon- fuls of flour; one ounce of butter; three eggs ; one pound of cherries. Mix the flour to a smooth paste with a little milk, then add the remainder, warm the butter and stir it in, stirring the mixture well, then add the eggs well beaten, and a pinch of salt. Take the stones from a pound of cherries, stir them into the batter, tie it in a pudding cloth, and boil it. Serve with butter sauce. Grated Cocoa Nut—American. 532. One cocoa-nut; a clear strawberry or currant jelly. Take a large cocoa-nut, break it in pieces, pare off the dark outside ; throw the pieces into cold water ; grate the white meat of the cocoa-nut on a very coarse grater, and with a broad fork heap it on a flat dish, and serve it with any preserve. Or arrange it round a jelly flavoured with raspberry, strawberry, or any other fruit. Apple Custard Pudding. Time, to bake, thirty to thirty-five minutes. 533. Ten or twelve good sized boiling apples ; a quarter of a pint of water ; sugar to taste ; the grated peel of one lemon; four eggs ; two ounces of loaf sugar ; one pint of milk. Peel and core ten or twelve apples, and boil them as for apple sauce, in a very clean saucepan, with a quarter of a pint of water, the peel of a large lemon grated, and moist sugar to taste, beat them to a pulp and set them to cool. Make a custard with a pint of milk, two ounces of sugar, and four eggs well beaten. Put the apple at the bottom of a pie-dish, pour the custard over it, and bake it in a moderate oven. Boiled Custard Pudding. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 534. Half a pint of milk; half a pint of cream ; four eggs ; three ounces of sugar ; a little cinnamon. Boil a little cinnamon with fne sugar pounded, and the milk and cream. When cold, add the eggs well beaten, and stir it over the fire until it thickens, then set it to get quite cold. Butter and flour a cloth, and tie the custard in it, put it into a sauce- pan and boil it three-quarters of an hour. When done, put it in a basin to cool, then untie the cloth, put a dish over it, and turn the pudding carefully out. Serve it with sifted sugar over it and with wine sauce in a tureen. Custard for Puddings. 535. One pint of milk ; two or three eggs ; three ounces of loaf sugar; one bay-leaf ; a little nutmeg ; a saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon. To a pint of milk stir in the yolks of two or three beaten eggs, a little nutmeg and cinnamon (should the flavour be liked), one bay-leaf, and the sugar pounded. Stir all well together, and boil it to the thickness you require. When done, take out the bay- leaf. Cassel Pudding. Time, twenty or thirty minutes. 536. The weight of two eggs in butter, sugar, and flour; peel of half a lemon grated. Take the weight of two eggs, in the shell, in butter, sugar, and flour; half melt the butter, beat the yolks and the whites of the eggs separately, mix the butter and sugar together, then the eggs with the grated lemon peel, then stir in the flour. Butter your tins, and fill them rather more than half full. Bake them in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes or half an hour. Duke of Cambridge Pudding. Time, to bake, three-quarters of an hour. 537. One ounce of lemon peel ; one ounce of orange peel ; one ounce of citron ; six ounces of butter ; six ounces of pounded sugar ; yolks of four eggs ; puff paste. Line a pie-dish with a rich puff-paste, and lay over the bottom the candied orange, lemon, and citron cut into thin slices ; warm I 2