11 Boning, Braising, and Larding. continue boiling till it is made. It must be kept in a jar well covered, and when re- quired for use should be put into a stew- pan and let stand in boiling water till the jelly is melted. It must be brushed over the tongue, chicken, or beef with a glazing brush once or twice till the operation is finished. Boning, larding, and Braising. The three most difficult operations to achieve well in cookery are boning, larding, and braising. Boning is so little understood by inferior cooks that it is best, if your servant is not first-rate, to have it done by the poulterer with whom you deal. Never- theless, it is an art which tends so much to economy, that it would quite repay the mistress of a family to pay for a few lessons for her domestic from a good poulterer or cook. The bones of poultry and hares are most useful for making gravies, and hares are more easily carved, and look better when boned. Any butcher will bone joints when required. Although we cannot hope that our readers will be able to achieve the boning of a fowl, &c., from any verbal description, we, nevertheless, give a few directions on the subject, from an excellent recipe of Miss Acton's for the performance of the operation. Turkeys, fowls, hares, &c., are boned, as well as joints. To Bone a Turkey or Fowl,—Miss Acton’s. “Cut through the skin down the centre of the back, and raise the flesh carefully on either side with the point of a sharp knife until the sockets of the wings and thighs are reached. Till a little practice has been gained, it will, perhaps, be better to bone these joints before proceeding further ; but after they are once detached from it the whole of the body may easily be separated from the flesh, and taken out entire. Only the neckbones and merrythought will then remain to be removed. The bird thus pre- pared may either be restored to its original form, by filling the legs and wings with forcemeat, and the body with the livers of two or three fowls, mixed with alternate layers of parboiled tongue, freed from the rind, fine sausage meat, or veal forcemeat, or thin slices of the nicest bacon, or aught else of good flavour which will give a marbled appearance to the fowl when it is carved, and then be sewn up and trussed as usual ; or the legs and wings may be drawn inside the body, and the bird being first flattened on a table may be covered with sausage meat and the various other in- gredients we have named, so placed that it shall be of equal thickness in every part, then tightly rolled, bound firmly together with a fillet of broad tape, wrapped in a thin pudding cloth closely tied at both ends, and dressed." Larding. The cook should be provided with larding needles of various sizes. Cut small smooth strips of the length required, off flic firmest part of a piece of bacon fat. Put these bits of bacon fat into a larding needle; they are called lardoons. Pierce the skin, and a very little of the flesh of the meat, fowl, sweet- bread, &c., you may wish to lard .with it, leaving the bacon in, and the two ends of equal length outwards. These punctures for lardoons are made in rows at any dis- tance from each other the cook pleases. The flavour of larding may be obtained by raising the skin of the meat and laying a slice of fat bacon beneath it ; this mode is not ornamental, but gives an excellent flavour to the flesh, even better than when larded with the needles. It requires a little practice to lard neatly, but as it is really an easy operation, any cook may learn to do it with care. Cut the bacon in slices, lay them one on the other, and cut strips through them the size you require, in order that they may be all of the same size. Lardoons (as these pieces of bacon are called) should be two inches in length and one-eighth of an inch in width, for larding poultry, game, and fricandeaux ; for fillets of beef and loin of veal they should be rather thicker. We owe, besides many another invaluable lesson, the following admirable description of larding to Soyer:—“Have the fricandeau trimmed ; lay it lengthwise upon a clean napkin across your hand, forming a kind of bridge with your thumb at the part you are about to commence at. Then with the point of the larding needle make three distinct lines across, half an inch apart ; run the needle into the third line at the further side of the fricandeau, and bring it out at the first, placing one of the lardoons in it ; draw the needle through; leaving out a quarter of an inch of the bacon at each line ; proceed thus to the end of the row. Then make another line half an inch dis- tant ; stick in another row of lardoons, bringing them out at the second line, leaving the ends of the bacon out all the same length. Make the next row again at the same distance, bringing the ends out be- tween the lardoons of the first row, proceed- ing in this manner until the whole surface is larded in chequered rows. Everything else is larded in a similar way, and in the