Carving. 26 Saddle of Mutton. Saddle of Mutton. — The tail end is divided in the engraving, and the kidneys skewered under each division ; this is a matter of taste, and is not always done. Carve from A to b in thin slices, help fat from c to d. You may help from the vertebrae on both sides of the loin, and then carve crosswise as marked in the en- graving, which gives you both fat and lean ; help a slice of kidney to those who desire it. The Loin of Mutton, ifsmall, should be carved in chops, be- ginning with the outer chop ; if large, carve slices the whole length. chine bone are removed, is carved in the direction of the bones. The Scrag of Mutton should be separated from the ribs of the neck, and when roasted the bones sent with the meat. Haunch of Mutton is carved haunch of venison. as A neat way is to run the knife along the chine bone and under the meat along the ribs ; it may then be cut in slices as shown in the engraving of the saddle of mutton ; by this process fat and lean are served together ; your knife should be very sharp, and it should be done cleverly Neck of Mutton, if the scrag and OI venison. Fore Quarter of Lamb.—Place your fork near the knuckle, and cut from a to c, to b, and on to d ; pass your knife under, lifting with the fork at the same time. The juice of half a lemon or Seville orange which has been sprin- kled with salt and pepper, is then squeezed under the shoul- der, and a slice of fresh butter placed there also, the parts are reunited until the butter is r- . . T melted, and the shoulder is oie Quaiter of Lamb. then placed upon a separate the rihe frem r, *„ _ , , , , , dish; separate the neck from palate of your guest. ’ ^ 16,1 ldp the breaSt’ G' or the neck> F- according to the Haunch of Venison.-Have the dish placed before you so that the loin is nearest to you, and the knuckle farthest; then cut from a to B, sufficiently near the knuckle to prevent the escape of any gravy ; then make your first cut from a to C, with a slanting cut, and then let each succeeding slice be sloping, so that all the gravy may be retained in the hollow thus formed ; the fat will be found at the left side, and must be served with the meat. ciently roasted, this maybe done with ease ; the meat should be cut in thin slices across the leg, the crackling being served with it, or not, according to taste ; the loins are cut into the pieces scored by the butcher. Ham is served as placed in the engraving, and should come to table ornamented. Carve from A to B, cutting thin slices slant- ingly, to give a wedge-like appearance. Those Haunch of Venison. Kid, if kept until the age at which lambs are killed, is served and carved in the same manner ; if killed at a month or five weeks, it is roasted whole, and carved in the kitchen. Pork.—The leg when s^nt to table should be placed with the back uppermost, and the crackling be removed ; if suffi-