io8 To Make Pastes and Pastry. Potted Shrimps. 483. Shrimps ; pepper ; salt, and cloves. Shell the shrimps, season them with pepper, salt, and just a taste of pounded cloves, and put them down tight in pots, the closer the better, as it is not well for the butter to run in between them too much ; put a little butter over them, set them for a few minutes into a moderate oven, and when cold just cover them over with clarified butter. To Collar Beef. Time, six hours and a half. 484. Eight pounds of beef; a bunch of savoury herbs ; a large sprig of parsley ; pepper ; salt ; allspice, and nutmeg. For the ■pickle.—One ounce of saltpetre; two ounces of brown sugar ; seven ounces of salt. Take about eight pounds from a thin flank of beef, and rub it well with the above proportions of salt, saltpetre, and coarse sugar; turn and rub it every morning for ten or twelve days. Then take out the bones and gristle, chop very fine a large sprig of parsley, and a bunch of savoury herbs, pound a dozen allspice, and add it to the herbs with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix it all well together, and lay it over the beef. Roll the meat up as tightly as you can in a round form. Cover it with a cloth, bind it with a wide tape, and boil it in a large quantity of water for six hours and a quarter. When done, put it between two boards, under a weight, and let it remain until cold. Then remove the tape and cloth, put a silver skewer through it, and it will be fit to serve for luncheon, or breakfast. Sprats Preserved like Anchovies. 485. To half a peck of sprats allow one pound of common salt; two ounces of bay salt; two ounces of saltpetre, one ounce of salprunella ; a pinch of cochineal. For half a peck of sprats, prepare the above seasoning pounded together in a mor- tar. If possible, the sprats should be fresh from the sea, not even wiped, unless brought from market. Arrange them in a pan, with seasoning between each layer of fish, press them tightly down, and cover them close, and in about four or six months they will be fit for use. For anchovy toast, or to make anchovy paste, fry them in butter, turning them carefully, not to break them. Take off the heads, tails, and remove the bones, beat them to a paste, put them into pots, and pour clarified butter over them. TO MAKE PASTES AND PASTRY. German Paste. 486. Three-quarters of a pound of flour ; half a pound of butter ; half a pound of sugar ; peel of a lemon ; two eggs ; half an eggshell of water. Take three-quarters of a pound of fine flour, put into it half a pound of butter, the same of powdered sugar, and the peel of a lemon grated ; make a hole in the middle of the flour, break in the yolks of two eggs, re- serving the whites, which are to be well beaten ; then mix all well together. If the eggs do not sufficiently moisten the paste, add half an eggshell of water. Mix all thoroughly, but do not handle it too much. Roll it out thin, and you may use it for all sorts of pastry. Before putting it into the oven, wash over the pastry with the white of the beaten eggs, and shake over a little powdered sugar. A Light Puff Paste—American. 487. One pound of sifted flour; one pound of fresh butter; two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar; one teaspoonful of soda ; a ltttle water. Work one-fourth of the butter into the flour until it is like sand ; measure the cream of tartar and the soda, rub it through a sieve, put it to the flour, add enough cold water to bind it, and work it smooth ; dredge flour over the pasteslab or board, rub a little flour over the rolling pin, and roll the paste to about half an inch thickness; spread over the whole surface one-third of the remaining butter, then fold it up; dredge flour over the pasteslab and rolling pin, and roll it out again ; then put another portion of the butter, and fold and roll again, and spread on the remaining butter, and fold and roll for the last time. Very Rick Short Crust. 488. Ten ounces of butter ; one pound of flour ; a pinch of salt; two ounces of loaf sugar ; and a little milk. Break ten ounces of butter into a pound of flour dried and sifted, add a pinch of salt, and two ounces of loaf sugar rolled fine. Make it into a very smooth paste as lightly as possible, with two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to moisten the paste.