3*5 Breakfast Dishes. Make your forcemeat by chopping up the beef suet very fine ; grating the bread, chopping the parsley, and mixing the Whole ; grate in a little lemon peel, season it with pepper and salt. (Soyer was wont to say that seasoning could not be suffi- ciently accurate unless it was sprinkled in by the cook's fingers.) Beat the yolk of an egg and bind the forcemeat with it. While making it, let four eggs boil for ten minutes. Warm half a pint of rich brown gravy. When the eggs are boiled hard take them from their shells, and brush them over thickly with the forcemeat. Put a little butter in a stewpan ; fry them a light brown, dish them up, cut them in halves (first cut off also the top of the white that they may stand), and serve them hot with rich brown gravy poured over them. Huitres au Lit. Time, ten minutes. 29. Eight oysters ; four thin slices of fat bacon ; a round of toasted bread. Take two oysters from their shells and roll them in a thin broad slice of fat bacon ; fasten them with a small silver skewer (or steel one), and toast the tiny roll before the fire in a Dutch oven. Make four of these rolls, roast them at the same time, and serve them hot on a round of nicely toasted bread. Buttered Eggs, or Egg Toast. 30. Four eggs ; three ounces of butter; pepper and salt. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites toge- ther ; put three ounces of butter into a basin, and stand it in boiling water, stirring it until it is melted ; then pour the butter and the eggs into a saucepan ; keep a basin in your hand, just hold the saucepan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way ; as it begins to warm, pour it into the basin, and back again ; then hold it again over the fire, stirring it constantly in a saucepan, and pouring it into the basin, to mix the egg and butter more perfectly until they shall be hot without boiling. They may then be sent to table on a flat dish with some slices of hard boiled eggs on the top, or spread very thickly on buttered toast. In either way they must be served up very hot. Omelet. Time, eleven minutes. 31. Four eggs ; two dessertspoonfuls of milk ; two ounces of butter; a sprig of parsley, and a few chives. Beat four whole eggs with two dessert- spoonfuls of milk, a sprig of parsley, and chives, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Put the butter into au omelet-pan, and set it over the fire for five or six minutes, beat- ing the herbs and eggs all the time ; then pour them into the pan, and let them stand for a few minutes over the fire, but taking care to separate the omelet gently from the bottom of the pan, and shaking it to prevent its burning ; fry it for about five minutes on one side, and serve it doubled over. Bacon Broiled. Time, five minutes. 32. A few slices as required by the number of the family. Cut the slices very thin ; take off the rind ; put them to broil on a goidiron over a very clear fire ; turn them three or four times. Five minutes will suffice to dress them well. Some persons prefer the bacon thin enough to roll; but this is better perhaps for garnishing dishes than for breakfast. Ham is broiled in the same time. Pigs’ Kidneys. Time, fifteen minutes. 33. Pigs’ kidneys are prepared exactly as sheep's kidneys are ; they are nearly divided, fastened flat open with a tiny skewer, and broiled over a clear fire. They are served quite plain, or with maitre d'hotel sauce, if preferred. Pigs’ Feet and Ears. Time, to boil, four hours ; to fry, twelve minutes. 34. One teacupful of vinegar ; a salt- spoonful of salt; three ounces of butter ; one spoonful of made mustard ; one spoon- ful of vinegar. Clean the feet and ears carefully, and soak them for some hours ; and boil them tender. Then take them up. Boil some vinegar and a little salt in water, and when they are cold pour it over them. When they are to be dressed, dry them, split the feet in two, lengthwise, and slice the ears. Fry them, and serve them with butter, mustard, and vinegar ; or they may be fried in butter simply, and served. Pigs' feet may be simply boiled after being pickled. Pigs’ Ears. Time, to stew, half an hour. 35. Two ears ; one anchovy ; one tea- spoonful of sage and parsley ; a quarter of a pound of suet, chopped fine ; five ounces of bread-emmbs ; a little salt ; pepper to taste ; two eggs ; two ounces of butter ; half a pint of rich gravy; one glass of