«9 Made Dishes. After the birds are plucked and trussed, place them before a brisk fire, and baste them constantly with butter. They will take about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes to roast, and when done, place them on a layer of fried bread-crumbs on a very hot dish. Serve with a tureen of bread sauce, and one of good gravy. To Roast Larks. Time, a quarter of an hour. 365. Two dozen larks ; pepper; salt ; nut- meg, and a sprig of parsley ; egg ; bread- crumbs ; and melted butter. Pick and clean the birds, and cut off the heads and legs, pick out the gizzards, and put a seasoning inside them of pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little chopped parsley ; brush them over with the yolks of some well-beaten eggs, dip them into bread- crumbs, covering them very thickly, run a small bird spit through them, and fasten it on a larger one, and put them to roast be- fore a bright fire, basting them constantly with butter, or they will burn. When done, arrange them in a circle round a dish, and fill the centre with a pile of crumbs of bread, fried crisp and brown in a little butter. Serve them with melted butter, with the juice of half a lemon squeezed into it. Roast Guinea Fowl—Larded. Time, one hour and a quarter. 366. A guinea fowl; some lardoons ; six ounces of butter. When the guinea fowl is properly pre- pared, lard the breast with shreds of bacon, and truss it the same as a pheasant. Put it down to a clear brisk fire to roast, keeping it well basted ; and about ten minutes be- fore it is done dredge it with flour to make it froth nicely. Serve it with a little gravy poured round it, send up some also in a tureen, and the same of bread sauce. If the guinea fowl is not larded, but plainly roasted, truss it like a turkey. A guinea fowl may be roasted plain, as a pheasant. It will then take one hour to roast at a good fire. Baste it well with butter. TEAL. To Truss Teal. 367. Pick the bird carefully; twist each leg at the knuckle ; rest the claws on each side of the breast, and secure them by passing a skewer through the thighs and pinions of the wings. To Roast Teal. Time, ten to fifteen minutes. 368. Teal should not be eaten till after the first frost, and should be plump and fat. Roast them before a bright hot fire, and baste them very frequently with butter. Serve with orange sauce. Garnish with watercresses. Send up a cut lemon on a plate with them, and a tureen of sauce or brown gravy. MADE DISHES. Oyster Fritters. Time, five or six minutes. 369. One quart of oysters ; half a pint of milk ; two eggs ; a little flour; a little dripping, or butter. Open a quart of oysters, strain the liquor into a basin, and add to it half a pint of milk, and two well-beaten eggs; stir in by degrees flour enough to make a smooth but rather thin batter ; when perfectly free from lumps put the oysters into it. Have some beef dripping or butter made hot in a very clean frying-pan, and season with a little salt, and when it is boiling drop in the batter with a large spoon, putting one or more oysters in each spoonful. Hold the pan over a gentle fire until one side of the batter is a delicate brown, turn each fritter separately, and when both sides arc done place them on a hot dish, and serve. Fricassee of Cold Roast Beef. Time, twenty minutes to simmer. 370. Some slices of cold beef; one onion ; a bunch of parsley ; three-quarters of a pint of broth ; yolks of four eggs ; one spoonful of vinegar ; three dessertspoonfuls of port wine ; a little pepper and salt. Cut the beef into very thin slices, season it with a little pepper and salt, shred a a bunch of parsley very small, cut an onion into pieces, and put all together into a stew- pan with a piece of butter and three- quarters of a pint of good broth. Let it all simmer slowly ; then stir in the yolks of two well-beaten eggs, a teaspoonful of vinegar, or the juice of half a lemon, and a wine- glass of port wine ; stir it briskly over the fire, and turn the fricassee into a hot dish. If the flavour of shallot is liked, the dish can be previously rubbed with one. Ox-tails Stewed. Time, two and a half to three hours. 371. Three tails ; half a teaspoonful of pepper; a little Cayenne ; eight or ten cloves ; two small onions; two large carrots ; a large bunch of parsley ; a little butter and flour ; salt to taste. Divide three ox-tails in pieces, put them