Hints to Housekeepers. Eggs may be preserved by brushing them all over the shell with a thin solution of gum and laying them in bran. Some persons brush them over with oil ; in fact anything which will render the shell impervious to the air suffices for the purpose of preserving them. Suet may be kept for a twelvemonth, thus: choose the firmest and most free from skin or veins, remove all trace of these, put the suet in a saucepan at some distance from the fire, and let it melt gradually ; when melted pour it into a pan of cold spring water ; when hard, wipe it dry, fold it in white paper, put it into a linen bag, and keep it in a dry cool place : when used it must be scraped ; it will make an excellent pie-crust, either with or without butter. The trouble of housekeeping is much diminished by having a fixed day for giving out to the cook the tea, sugar, coffee, plums, &c., which are likely to be required during the coming week ; weighing out the quantities in proportion to the number of the family. Every week she should account for these quantities/ bringing back whatever may chance to remain over and above her use. The spice-box in the kitchen should be occasionally replenished from the store- room. Keeping Accounts. So many good Housekeeper's-books are now published that much need not be said as to the mode of entry. But we think daily expenses are too minute in small families to be entered under all the various headings in most of the books with printed lists. The housewife is advised to keep a tiny MS. book and pencil in her pocket, and enter at the moment everything she buys or receives in the course of the day. This little record may be examined once a week, and its con- tents (so far as they relate to housekeeping) entered in the family account-book. The cook should produce her slate to check the lady's accounts, and the amount should be carefully added up. We prefer ourselves a plain ruled account- book without printed items. Then on one side, the left, we enter whatever money we receive during the week ; on the opposite page the outlay we have made, which, when added up, can be subtracted at the bottom of the left page from the money re- ceived ; a weekly check is thus placed on the expenditure, which is continually compared with the means of payment. It is well to have a fixed sum for house- keeping which may not be exceeded. 1 f any amount may be left, it is a good reserve lund for extra expenses, or for charity. Ready reckoners* will be found of great use both to save time and also to help those \vho are slow at figures. One of them should always be kept lying next to or on the housekeeper's-book. Butchers bills require careful weekly supervision, even when not paid till the quarter has elapsed, as errors in weight, even of ounces, or of price, as of farthings, t come to a considerable item in the course of the year. The memoranda of weight should be also compared with the book. One morning every week will suffice for these accounts, and, if faithfully carried out, the practice will be attended with a constant improvement in economy and good house- keeping. Dripping is most useful in a moderate family. It is an excellent medium for frying ; it will make good family pie-crust, and sup- ply the place of suet in a dumpling. Bones are absolutely necessary for making gravies and stock for soup. Take care that butter is kept in a cot place and covered from the air. In summe get some saltpetre, dissolve it in cold water and stand the butter crock in it, so that thi saltpetre water may reach well up the sides. Cover it over with a wet cloth, the ends of which resting in the saltpetre water will keep it constantly moist. This is nearly as good as icing the butter. Milk should be kept in scrupulously clean vessels, and stale and fresh milk should never be mixed, or the good will be spoiled. Set apart from your income yearly a small sum to be invested in replacing worn house- hold linen. Buy occasionally a tablecloth, a pair of sheets, &c., See. You will feel these purchases much less than having to supply a whole stock of linen at once. House linen should be looked over every six weeks or quarter, and carefully repaired. We like lavender-bags among the linen, to give it a fresh agreeable smell; but some persons assert that they bring moth. If you observe iron-moulds on the linen, speak at once to the laundress on the sub- ject. It is possible she throws the washing cloths on a brick floor, which will cause iron-mould as soon as rusty iron does. * See Warne’s “ Model Ready Reckoner.” f “ My Market Table,”