92 Made Dishes—Curries and Indian Dishes. but not more than three or four inches long, lay a very thin slice of fat bacon on each, then a layer of forcemeat, a little shallot sliced as thin and fine as possible, with pepper, salt, and Cayenne ; roll them round, and fasten each securely with a small skewer, brush them over with egg, and fry them a nice brown. Boil a few mushrooms, pickled or fresh, with half a pint, or as much as your olives will require, of brown gravy, pour it round them, and garnish with egg-balls. Pig’s Fry. Time, two hours and a quarter. 385. A pound and a half of fry ; one onion ; one teaspoonful of chopped sage leaves ; two pounds and a half of potatoes ; one saltspoonful of pepper ; two saltspoon- fuls of salt. Boil a large Lisbon onion, then chop it up fine with a few sage leaves. Lay half the fry at the bottom of a pie dish, cover it with a thin layer of sage and onions, sprinkle it well with pepper and salt, cover it with a layer of sliced potatoes ; then put in the other half of the fry, and again sprinkle it with pepper and salt, add another very thin layer of sage and onion, cover it with sliced potatoes, fill the dish with water, and put it in the oven. When it is done, brown it with a salamander, and serve. dish before the fire ; let it dissolve; lay the fowl on it (or on a round of toasted bread), and serve very hot. CURRIES AND INDIAN DISHES. The author has the pleasure of offering in the next few pages original receipts direct from the East, presented to her by Anglo- Indian friends. Some of the dishes are quite unknown in England, as Ballychony, Bobotie, &c. Madras Curry Powder. 388. Two ounces of cumin seed; two ounces of coriander seed ; three-quarters of an ounce of caraway seed ; three-quarters of an ounce of cardamom seeds ; three-quarters of an ounce of Cayenne pepper ; half an ounce of black pepper ; half an ounce of fenugreek seed ; a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon ; half an ounce of cloves; a quarter of an ounce of mace ; ten ounces of turmeric. Let each of the above seeds be powdered fine and set before the fire to dry, shaking and mixing the whole thoroughly together. When cool, put the powder into small glass bottles. Cork them down tightly. Spatchcock—English Fashion. Time, twelve minutes. 386. One fowl; three ounces of butter ; a piece of puff paste. Make about a pound or half a pound, as required, of good puff paste. Roll it out about the thickness of two fingers. Cut the edge in Vandykes. Rub together the pieces of paste left; cut them into the shape of crescent moons ; wet one of the corners of each and the side of the vandyked paste, and stick crescents between each vandyke. Bake this crust a delicate golden colour. Cut up a freshly-killed fowl in joints, pepper and salt them and rub with butter ; broil them, then pile them on the crust. Spatchcock—Indian Mode and Sea Fashion. Time, half an hour. 387. One fowl; pepper and salt; two or three ounces of butter. A fowl freshly killed, picked, and pre- pared. Split the fowl in halves through the middle of the breast and back ; pepper and salt it ; rub it over with butter ; grease a gridiron ; and broil it over a bright clear fire. Put a lump of fresh butter in a hot To boil the Rice for the Curry. Time, fifteen to twenty-five minutes to boil. 389. Patna, rice. Put in the rice (which should be Patna, not Carolina rice) into plenty of cold water, and let it boil up, then strain it off and add the same quantity of cold water again. Let it boil up a second time, and then strain it off again, and set the rice on the hob or hot plate in the colander, and keep it constantly stirred with two forks until the rice is quite tender. You will then have every grain separate. Curry of Cold Roast Beef or Mutton. Time, ten or twelve minutes. 390. Some slices of cold beef ; two ounces and a half of butter ; one tablespoonful of curry powder ; half a Spanish onion ; a 1 quarter of a pint of gravy. Cut some slices of cold roast beef into rather small square pieces, and dredge them with flour. Slice the onion, and fry it a nice brown in about two ounces and a half of butter in a stewpan ; then pour in a quarter of a pint, or as much as you may require of the gravy from the meat, or gravy made, from the bones and any trimmings of meat. Add the curry powder and the slices