69 To Roast Mutton. for ten days or a fortnight, trim off the skin which covers the fat, remove the shank bone, and cover it with two or three sheets of buttered paper, place it on a spit, or in a cradle spit; set it at about fifteen inches from the fire, and roast it for two hours very slowly to warm it through, basting it with dripping every five minutes. Draw it gra- dually nearer and nearer to the fire to brown, but take care it does not burn. Sprinkle it with a little fine salt, dredge it over with flour and baste with a little butter, which will give it a fine frothy appearance. Pour good brown gravy over it. Serve it with red currant jelly sauce. Saddle of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to a pound. 232. Take off the skin, cover the fat with a sheet of well greased paper, and roast it as directed for a haunch ; just before it is finished cooking remove the paper, sprinkle the joint with salt, dredge it well over with flour, and drop warmed butter over it. Serve it with good gravy, or empty the con- tents of the dripping-pan into a basin, from which remove the fat, add a little warm water, and use this natural gravy. Red currant jelly as sauce. Leg of Mutton Roasted. Time, half an hour to the pound, slow method ; a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, ordinary time. 233. A leg of mutton intended for roast- ing can be kept much longerthan for boiling, but it must be wiped very dry, and dusted with flour and pepper. Cut oft the knuckle, remove the thick skin, and trim off the piece of flank. Put a little salt and water into the dripping-pan, and baste the joint for a short time with it, then use the gravy from the meat itself, basting it every ten minutes. Serve it with gravy poured round it, and currant jelly, separately. The wether leg of mutton is the best for roasting. A leg of mutton, if too large, can be divided, and the knuckle boiled ; or by placing a paste of flour and water over the part cut to keep in the gravy, it can be roasted, by which means two roast dinners can be had from the one joint. Boned Leg of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. 234. A small leg of mutton, weighing about seven pounds ; some veal stuffing ; and some good gravy. Procure a nice small leg of mutton, and remove the bone carefully ; make a good veal forcemeat (to which about three ounces of ham or bacon must be added), and fill up the hole from whence the bone has been taken with it ; cover the skin over, and sew it neatly up to secure the forcemeat. Tie it round, and roast it for about three hours before a bright, clear fire. When it is done, remove the string, place it on a hot dish, and place round it some good brown gravy. Roast Shoulder of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 235. A shoulder of mutton should not be basted in roasting, but simply rubbed with a little butter. Put the spit in close to the shank bone, and run it along the blade bone. Roast this joint at a sharp, brisk fire. It should be well hung ; and served with onion sauce. Roast Loin of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound. 236. This joint is not economical on ac- count of the weight of fat attached to it ; but it is very useful in small families, as it is a joint that can be cut so as not to leave too much cold meat. London butchers gene- rally remove the fat, ready for dressing. Roast it at a bright fire, and baste carefully about every quarter of an hour. Brown and froth it as before directed, for leg, &c. To Roll a Loin of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 237. A loin of mutton ; veal forcemeat; and a tablespoonful of ketchup. Hang a loin of mutton till tender, take out the bone, and lay over the meat a stuffing made as for veal; roll it up tightly, fasten it with small skewers to keep it in shape, and tie it round with a string. Roast it before a brisk fire, allowing a quarter of an hour, or twenty minutes, for each pound of meat. Make a gravy of the bones, adding to it a tablespoonful of ketchup, and a little salt. When the meat is done, pour the gravy made from the bones, mixed with the gravy from the meat, over it, and serve with currant jelly, separately. A Mode of Dressing Fillet of Mutton. Time, two hours. 238. Take off the chump end of a loin of mutton, and cover it with two sheets of buttered paper as for venison ; roast it for two hours, but do not allow it to become the least brown. Have ready some French beans, boiled tender, and well drained from the water on a sieve ; while the mutton is being glazed, warm them up in the gravy, put them on a dish, and serve the meat on them.