6 8 To Fry Beef Kidncy— Strived Beef Kidney— Tripe. Chop up and fry the cold potatoes and cabbage with a little pepper, salt, and a good large piece of butter. Set it aside to keep hot. Lightly fry some slices of cold boiled beef ; put them in a hot dish, with alternate layers of vegetable, piling it higher in the middle. To Fry Beef Kidney. Time, ten or twelve minutes. 225. One kidney; three ounces of butter ; half a pint of gravy; one tablespoonful of Harvey sauce ; one lump of sugar. Take a beef kidney, cut it into slices not too thick, and let them soak in warm water for two hours and a half, changing the water twice to thoroughly cleanse the kid- ney. Dredge a very little flour over these slices, and fry them a nice brown, in about three ounces of butter, seasoning them pre- viously with pepper and salt. Arrange them in a circle, slightly leaning over each Other round the dish. Stir a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce into half a pint (or rather Jess) of good gravy, with one lump of sugar in it, and pour it into the centre of the dish. Stewed Beef Kidney. Time, half an hour. 226. A beef kidney; pepper and salt. Cut the kidney into slices, and season it highly with pepper and salt, and fry it a light brown ; then pour a little warm water into the pan, dredge in some flour, put in the slices of kidney, and let it stew very gently. Minced Beef. Time, twenty minutes. 227. One pound and a half of beef; six ounces of bacon ; two small onions ; a little pepper and nutmeg ; one ounce and a half of butter rolled in flour ; a spoonful of browning ; a few poached or hard-boiled eggs. Mince about a pound and a half of beef with the bacon and onions, seasoning it highly with pepper and nutmeg. Take a sufficient quantity of stock made from bones, and any trimmings, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little browning ; make it hot and strain it over the mince ; put the whole into a stewpan, let it simmer for a few minutes, and serve it on a hot dish with sippets of toasted bread, and a poached or hard-boiled egg divided and placed on each sippet arranged round the edge of the dish. It is also served surrounded by a wall of mashed potatoes, with two poached eggs lying on the top of it. Hashed Beef—Plain. Time, twenty-five minutes. 228. Some slices of cold roast beef; two tablespoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce ; one of mushroom ketchup ; and the gravy from the meat or from the bones boiled down ; pepper and salt. Put the gravy saved from the meat (with a little water if not sufficient), or the bones of the cold joint boiled down to a gravy, into a stewpan with two tablespoonfuls of Wor- cestershire sauce, one of mushroom ketchup, some pepper, salt, and a little butter rolled in flour to thicken it ; let it simmer gently for about a quarter of an hour ; take it from the fire, and when cold remove the fat. Cut the meat into slices, dredge them with flour, and lay them in the stewpan with the gravy, let it simmer slowly for ten minutes until hot, taking care jt does not boil, or the meat will be hard. Garnish with sippets of toasted bread. Tripe. Time, half an hour. 229. Two pounds of tripe; equal parts of milk and water ; four large onions. Take two pounds of fresh tripe, cleaned and dressed by the tripe-dresser, cut away the coarsest fat, and boil it from twenty minutes to half an hour in equal parts of milk and water. Boil in the same water which boils the tripe four large onions ; the onions should be put on the fire at least half an hour before the tripe is put into the stewpan, and then made into a rich onion sauce, to serve with the tripe. Tripe may also be cleaned, dried, cut into pieces, fried in batter, and served with melted butter. Tripe Roasted. Time, ten minutes. 230. Some pieces of tripe ; some force- meat; a little flour; some butter. Cut the tripe into good-sized pieces, and spread some forcemeat over them-, roll them up securely, and tie them upon a small spit, or roast them in a cradle spit ; flour and baste them with butter, and serve them up garnished with lemon in slices, and melted butter. MUTTON. Roast Haunch of Mutton. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat. 231. Take a fine haunch of Southdown, Welsh, or Devonshire mutton, hang it up