73 Roast and Boiled Lamb. position on the spit, and roast it before a bright fire for an hour and a quarter. Just before it is taken up, dredge it with a little salt and flour, and baste it well with butter to make it lookbrown.and froth it up. Then dish it up, and place the gravy made in the dripping-pan round it. Serve it with mint sauce in a tureen. Roast Leg of Lamb. Time, one hour and three-quarters for six pounds. 257. Procure a fine fresh leg of lamb, and place it some distance from the fire, basting it frequently ; a short time before it is done, move it nearer to the fire, dredge it with flour and a little salt, and baste it with dissolved butter, to give it a nice frothy appearance. Then empty the dripping-pan of its contents, pour in a cupful of hot water, stir it well round, and pour the gravy over the meat, through a fine sieve. Serve with mint sauce and a salad. Roast Shoulder of Lamb. Time, one hour and a quarter. 258. Place the joint at a moderate distance from a nice clear fire, and keep it constantly basted, to prevent the skin from becoming burnt. When done, dish it up ; and serve it with gravy made in the dripping-pan and poured round it. Send up mint sauce in a tureen. Roast Loin of Lamb. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 259. The loin is seldom roasted on ac- count of its small weight, but for families of two ladies or a single person it will be found very delicate. Care must be taken that it does not burn in roasting. It is best to cover it with a buttered paper, which should be removed a few minutes before serving, to baste and froth it. Mint sauce. Saddle of Lamb. Time, a quarter of an hour to the pound ; one hour and a half to two hours. 260. Cover the joint with buttered paper to prevent the fat catching, and roast it at a brisk fire ; constantly basting it at first with a very little butter, then with its own drip- ping. Mint sauce. Boiled Leg of Lamb. Time, one hour and a quarter after the water simmers. 261. Select a fine fresh leg of lamb, weigh- ing about five pounds ; soak it in warm water for rather more than two hours, then wrap it in a cloth and boil it slowly for an hour and a quarter. When done, dish it up and garnish with a border of carrots, turnips, o r cauliflower around it. Wind a cut paper round the shank bone, and serve it with plain parsley and butter sauce poured over it. To Prepare the Brains of a Lamb’s Head for Serving under it. Time, ten minutes. 262. One cupful of vinegar; half a pint of water, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; salt; and half a lemon. Boil the brains for ten minutes in a little vinegar and water, with a little salt, cut them into mince, add to them the yolk of an egg, mix them with a little milk, two dessertspoonfuls of chopped parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. The liver may be blanched and minced up in the same manner if it is liked. Pluck may be prepared by first scalding it, then letting it get cold, and stewing it in gravy seasoned with an onion, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg. Lamb’s Head and Pluck. Time, one hour and a quarter to boil. 263. A lamb’s head ; egg ; bread-crumbs ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; a little stock ; a piece of lemon peel; pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Soak the head in water for two hours, then boil it until nearly done, take it out, and brush it over with the yolk of a well- beaten egg, cover it thickly with bread- crumbs ; again add the egg, and repeat the bread-crumbs, season it with pepper and salt, and put it into a moderate oven till sufficiently brown. In the meantime, after scalding the pluck and setting it to cool, mince it up fine, mix in the brains and season them with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg ; put them into a stewpan with a piece of lemon peel cut thin, a bunch of sweet herbs minced up, and a little stock. When done, add the yolk of an egg beaten up with a tablespoonful of cream, put the mince into the dish, and serve the lamb’s head on it. Lamb’s Fry. Time, altogether twenty minutes. 264. One pound of lamb’s fry; one egg ; one ounce of bread-crumbs ; a sprig of parsley ; pepper and salt. Take a pound of lamb’s fry, and boil it for about a quarter of an hour ; then drain it dry. Brush it over with the yolk of a beaten egg, and then cover it with bread- crumbs, seasoned with minced parsley, pepper, and salt. Fry it till it is a nice colour—i.e., for about five minutes—and