Preserving and Pickling. 139 preserving-pan, with a large quantity of water, and boil them for two hours, then cut them in very thin slices. While they are boiling press the inside of the oranges through a splinter sieve, narrow enough to prevent the seeds and skin from going through. When this is done, and the peels cut into the thinnest shreds, put the whole on the fire in a copper or brass pan, with eight pounds of loaf sugar broken small. Boil it all together for ten minutes, it may then be taken off the fire and put into preserving jars. To Preserve Cherries. 694. One pound of sugar to every pound of cherries ; and three tablespoonfuls of red currant juice. Lay some pounded sugar at the bottom of the preserving-pan, and place some cherries on it, then another layer of sugar, then of cherries, repeating this until all are in, leaving out a little of the sugar to strew in as they boil; add three spoonfuls of currant juice to each pound of fruit, and set it over a clear fire. B«il them quickly, shaking them round frequently to prevent their burning, but do not stir them. Takeoff the scum as it rises, and when the syrup is thick and they look clear, put them into pots, and when cold, cover them over. To Bottle Cherries. 695. Cherries ; three ounces of sugar to each bottle. Have ready some wide-mouthed bottles quite clean and dry ; cut each cherry from the stalk into the bottle, be sure not to pull them off. To every bottle of cherries put three ounces of powdered sugar, then tie them tightly over with bladder. After drawing the bread leave the oven door open. About nine o'clock at night put in the bottles and close the oven door. Take them out the first thing in the morning, and put them in a dry place for use. Apple Marmalade. Time, half an hour and ten minutes. 696. One peck of apples; one gallon of water to every quart of pulp; one pound of loaf sugar. Take a peck of apples full grown but not the least ripe, of all or any sort ; quarter them and take out the cores, but do not pare them ; put them into a preserving-pan with one gallon of water, and let them boil moderately until you think the pulp will run, or suffer itself to be squeezed through a cheese cloth, only leaving the peels behind. Then to each quart of pulp add one pound, good weight, of loaf sugar, either broken in small pieces or pounded, and boil it all together for half an hour and ten minutes, keeping it stirred ; then put it into pots, the larger the better, as it keeps longer in a large body. Rules to he observed in Pickling. 697. Procure always the best white wine vinegar. Orleans vinegar, although the dearest, is the best. The success of your pickles depends on the goodness of your vinegar. Use glass bottles for your pickles ; if earthen jars they must be unglazed, as the * vinegar acting upon the glaze produces a mineial poison. Use saucepans lined with earthenware, or stone pipkins to boil your vinegar in. If you are compelled to use tin, do not let your vinegar remain in it one moment longer than actually necessary. Employ also wooden knives and forks in the preparation of your pickles. Fill the jars three-parts full with the articles to be pickled, and then fill the bottle, or jar with vinegar. When greening, keep the pickles covered down, as the evaporation of the steam will injure the colour. A little nut of alum may be added to crisp pickles, but it should be very small in proportion to the quantity, or it will give a disagreeable flavour. A List of Vegetables, and their Season for Pickling. 698. Cauliflowers, for pickling.—July and August. Capsicums, yellow, red, and green.—The end of July and August. Cucumbers.—The middle of July and August. Chilies.—End of July and August. Gherkins.—The middle of July and August. Onions.—The middle of July and August. Shallots.—Midsummer to Michaelmas. Garlic.—The same time. Melons as mangoes.—Middle of July and August. Tomatoes.—End of July and August. Nasturtiums.—Middle of July. Walnuts.—About the 14th of July. Radish pods.—July. French Beans.—July. Red Cabbage.—August. White Cabbage.—September and Octo- ber. Mushrooms, for pickling and ketchups.— September. Artichokes.—July and August, pickling. Jerusalem Artichokes.—July toNovember, pickling-. Samphire.—August. Horseradish.—November and December.