To Dress Game. 88 Do not draw them. Spit them on a small bird spit, flour them, and baste them well with butter. Have ready a slice of toasted bread (cut the crusts off), lay it in a dish, and set it on the dripping pan, under the birds, while cooking. When done, take them up, lay them on the toast, pour some good brown gravy round them, and garnish with slices of lemon. To Truss Wild Duck. 355. Pick the bird very clean, and twist each leg at the knuckle ; rest the claws on each side of the breast, and secure them by passing a skewer through the thighs and pinions of the wings. To Roast Wild Ducks. Time, twenty-five to thirty-five minutes. 356. Wild .ducks ; butter ; flour ; Cayenne pepper; one lemon ; one glass of port wine. When the ducks are trussed spit them, and put them down to roast before a brisk fire, keeping the spit in rapid motion. Baste them plentifully with butter, dredge them lightly with flour, and send them up nicely frothed and browned, with a good gravy in the dish. Before carving it the breast should have a few incisions made across it with a knife, and a piece of fresh butter put on it ; then cut a lemon across, on one half put a little salt, on the other a very small quantity of Cayenne pepper ; put the lemon together and squeeze the juice over the ducks, then add a glass of warmed port wine, and your ducks will be ready to carve. To Roast Grouse. Time, half an hour. 357. Grouse ; slices of fat bacon ; vine leaves ; melted butter. Hang the grouse for some time ; pick and truss them like a fowl for roasting, laying over them thin slices of bacon and vine leaves, which tie on with a thin thread. Roast them for Half or three-quarters of an hour, and when done, serve them on a slice of toasted bread, and pour some good melted butter over them. gravy and butter over it, place the birds on the toast, and serve them up hot. Grey plovers must be drawn, and either roasted or stewed with gravy, herbs, &c. To Truss a Quail. 359- A quail must be plucked, singed, and drawn ; then cut off the wings at the first pinion, leaving the feet, and pass a skewer through the pinions and the wings. To Roast a Quail. Time, about twenty minutes. 360. Quails ; a little gravy ; vine leaves ; and bacon. Pick, draw, and truss the birds. Cover the breasts with a slice of fat bacon and vine leaves, secured with a skewer, which can be tied to the spit. Roast them for twelve or fifteen minutes before a very brisk fire ; serve them up hot with a little good gravy poured round them. To Truss Blackcock. 361. Pluck and draw them, wipe them inside and out, cut off the heads and truss them the same as a roast fowl, scalding and picking the feet and cutting off the toes. Blackcock may also be trussed with the head on, if preferred, in which case it must be passed under the wing. To Roast Blackcock. Time, fifty minutes. 362. Blackcocks; butter; three slices of bacon ; three vine leaves. Hang the birds for three or four days, and when thoroughly plucked and wiped, truss them neatly, and cover the breast with two or three very thin slices of bacon, over which place three vine leaves. Roast them at a quick clear fire, basting them frequently with butter. When done, serve them on a slice of buttered toast and bread sauce and' gravy, in separate tureens. These birds may be plainly roasted without tlie addition of the bacon and leaves ; well basting and frothing them up. To Truss Landrail. Golden Plovers. Time, ten minutes to a quarter of an hour. 358. Plovers ; butter ; salt ; slice of bread toasted. Truss them like woodcocks, put them on a bird spit, tie them on another, and put them before a clear fire to roast ; place a roupd of toast under them, sprinkle a little salt over them, and baste them well with butter. When done, cut the toast into four pieces, put it into a hot dish with a little; 363. Draw the birds, wipe them clean with a wet cloth, and truss them with their heads under their wings, and the thighs close to their sides, and run a small skewer through the body that the legs may be per- fectly straight. To Roast Landrail. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 364. Five landrails ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; fried bread-crumbs ; and a little good gravy,