23 Carving. case of poultry, hold the breast over a char- coal fire for one minute, or dip it into boiling water, in order to make the flesh firm.” Braising. Braising is a mode of cooking by the action of heat above, as well as below, the article cooked. A braising pan has a deep cover (see engraving at Kitchen Utensils) on which live charcoal is placed. The pan is air-tight, and as all evaporation is thus precluded, the food braised imbibes what- ever flavour the cook may wish to give it ; in order to effect which, she must place in the pan with it whatever vegetables, &c., her recipe may-direct. The ingredients should be very well proportioned, and the stewing should go on very slowly. We will give here one recipe for a braise, as an example of what is meant. A Fowl braised.—Peel and wash a large Portugal onion, and one large turnip ; cut them in thin slices, with a little celery, a few sprigs of parsley, and a bay leaf. Lay a few slices of fat bacon at the bottom of the pan, place the bird trussed for boiling on it, cover the breast with slices of fat bacon. Lay the vegetables round it, with a few bones or trimmings of fresh meat. Add a One of the most important acquisitions in the routine of daily life is the ability to carve, not only well, but elegantly. It is true that the present fashion of Russian dinners is fast banishing the necessity for promiscuous carving from the richly-served boards of the wealthy; but in the circles of middle life, where it is not adopted, the necessity of skill in the use of a carving-knife is sufficiently obvious. The dish upon which the article to be carved is placed should be conveniently near to the carver, so that he may have full con- trol over it; for if it is placed far off, nothing can prevent an ungracefulness of appearance, and a difficulty in performing Ribs of Beef.—There are two modes of carving this joint; the first, which is now becoming common, and is easy to an ama- teur carver, is to cut across the bone, com- mencing in the centre, and helping fat from A, as marked in the engraving of the sirloin, or it should be carved in slices from a to n, commencing either in the centre of the joint or at the sides. Occasionally the bones are removed, and the meat formed into a fillet; it should then be carved as a round of beef. An Aitch-Bone of Beef.—This is a simple joint to carve, but the slices from it must be cut quite evenly, and of a very pint and a half of stock, and seasoning to your taste. Cover the pot closely, set it over a slow stove, put live charcoal at the top, and let it cook slowly. When it is done, keep the meat hot while you strain the gravy and take off the fat, which you can do quicker by plunging the basin partly into cold water ; this will make the fat coagulate. Boil it up very quickly again till it thickens. Some cooks let the gravy adhere to the meat ; this is done by boiling it down till it is reduced just to the quantity required for the purpose. Saute-ing. To " Sautd ” anything means to dress it quickly, in a small pan, with a very little butter, oil, lard, or dripping, doing one side at a time. Two spoonfuls of oil will be enough to sautt a small chicken in. The art of saut^-ing well consists in doing it quickly, to keep the gravy and succulence in the meat. It is an economical mode of dressing small things of every kind of food. It is, you see, very different from frying, which is really boiling in hot fat, and requires a far greater quantity of the butter, oil, &c., for its performance. that which if it were in its proper place could be achieved with ease. In helping fish, nicety and care must be exercised ; lightness of hand and dexterity of management are necessary, and can only be acquired by practice. The flakes which, in fish like salmon and cod are large, should not be broken in helping, for the beauty of the fish is then destroyed, and it becomes less inviting to the appetite. In the following directions, accompanied by diagrams, we have endeavoured to be as explicit as possible ; but practice alone will enable any person to carve with skill and facility. Aitch-Bone.