Strawberry and Raspberry Jam. 137 prevent its sticking to the preserving-pan. When done, put it into pots, cover it with brandy paper, and secure it closely down with paper moistened with the white of an egg- To Preserve Green Gooseberries Whole. 681. To one pound of gooseberries allow one pound and a half of double-refined sugar, and one pint and a half of water. Pick off the black eye, but not the stalk, from the largest green gooseberries you can procure, and set them over the fire to scald, taking care they do not boil. When they are tender, take them out, and put them into cold water. Then clarify a pound and a half of sugar in a pint and a half of water, and when the syrup is cold, put the goose- berries singly into your preserving-pan, add the syrup, and set them over a gentle fire. Let them boil slowly, but not quick enough to break them. When you perceive the sugar has entered them, take them off, cover them with white paper, and let them stand all night. The next day take out the fruit and boil the syrup until it begins to be ropy. Skim it well, add it to the goose- berries, and set them over a slow fire to simmer till the syrup is thick. Then take them out. Set them to cool, and put them with the syrup into pots. Cover them over, and keep them in a dry place. Strawberry Jam. Time, one hour. 6S2. To six pounds of strawberries allow three pounds of sugar. Procure some fine scarlet strawberries, strip off the stalks, and put them into a preserving-pan over a moderate fire ; boil them for half an hour, keeping them con- stantly stirred. Break the sugar into small pieces, and mix them with the strawberries after they have been removed from the fire. Then place it again over the fire, and boil it for another half hour very quickly. Put it into pots, and when cold, cover it over with brandy papers and a piece of paper moistened with the white of an egg over the tops. Raspberry Jam. Time, forty minutes. 683. One pound of fruit; one pound of sugar. To every pound of raspberries use the same weight of sugar, but always boil the fruit well before you add the sugar to it, as that will make it a better colour. Put the fruit in a preserving-pan, mashing it well with a long wooden spoon. After boiling it a few minutes, add the same quantity of sugar as fruit, boiling it half an hour, keep- ing it well stirred. When done, and suffi- ciently reduced, fill the jars, and when cold, cover them over with white paper moistened with white of eggs. To Preserve Greengages. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 684. To three pounds of greengages allow three pounds of sugar. Prick the plums with a fine needle, to prevent their breaking, put them into a preserving-pan with only sufficient water to cover them, and set them over a gentle fire until the water simmers ; then take them out and set them on a sieve to drain ; add to the water in which the plums were boiled the above quantity of pounded sugar, boil it quickly, skimming it as the scum rises, until the syrup sticks to the spoon. Then put in the greengages, and let them boil until the sugar bubbles, then pour the whole into a basin, and let it stand until the next day. Drain the syrup from the fruit, boil it up quickly, and pour it over the plums—repeat this for four days, then boil the fruit in it for five or six minutes, put them into jars, pour the syrup over them, and cover them over with brandy papers. The kernels must be blanched and boiled with the fruit. Rhubarb Marmalade. Time, three-quarters of an hour, if young rhubarb ; an hour and a half if old. 683. To one pound of loaf sugar one pound and a half of rhubarb stalks ; peel of half a large lemon ; a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds. Cut the rhubarb stalks into pieces about two inches long, and put them into a pre- serving-pan with the loaf sugar broken small, the peel of the lemon cut thin, and the almonds blanched and divided. Boil the whole well together, put it into pots, and cover it as directed for other preserves. To Preserve Plums. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 686. To every pound of fruit allow three- quarters of a pound of sugar. Divide the plums, take out the stones, and put the fruit on a dish with pounded sugar strewed over ; the next day pul them into a preserving-pan, and let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for about thirty minutes, then bod them quickly, re- moving the scum as it rises, and keep them constantly stirred, or the jam will stick to the bottom of the pan. Crack the stones, and add the kernels to the preserve when it boils.