42 Whiting—Mullels— Trout—Carp. Fried Whiting. Time to fry, ten minutes. 6-.!. Egg; bread-crumbs; and a little flom. Clean the whitings, take off the skin, turn them round, and fasten the tail into the mouth ; dry them in flour. Brush them over with an egg well beaten, roll them in bread ciumbs, and fry them in hot lard, and serve them on a napkin, garnished with fried parsley, and shrimp or anchovy sauce, separately. To Boil Whiting. Time, ten minutes for large fish. 63. Four or six whitings ; some anchovy sauce, or plain melted butter ; and three ounces of salt to each gallon of water. Thoroughly cleanse the fish, and lay them in the fish-kettle, with sufficient water to cover them. Bring them slowly to a boil, and simmer for five or six minutes, or for a longer time should your fish be large. Dish them on a folded napkin, and garnish with bunches of double parsley. Serve with an- chovy sauce, or plain melted butter. Eed Mullets in Papers. Time, twenty-five minutes. 64. Two mullets ; one ounce of butter ; one teaspoonful of Harvey’s sauce ; one glass of wine; four truffles ; six mush- rooms ; a little parsley ; a little shallot; one teaspoonful of lemon juice ; a little flour ; three eggs ; one spoonful of cream ; a little nutmeg. Place the mullets in a sautd-pan with the butter, sauce, and wine. Bake them in the oven slowly for ten minutes. Take the fish out of the pan ; strain off their liquor ; add to it the truffles, mushrooms, parsley, shallot, nutmeg, lemon juice, and flour; stir all together over the fire for six or eight minutes, then add a liaison of three well beaten yolks of eggs and a spoonful of cream. Take two sheets of letter paper, oil them well, lay tlje mullets on them and spread an equal proportion of sauce over each. Then fold the papers over them and roll the edges together to fasten them. Broil the mullets over a slow fire, suffi- ciently to brown them on both sides, and warm them through, but be careful not to burn the paper. When done serve them on a napkin. To Dress Mullets. Time, twenty-five minutes. 65. Three red mullets ; four spoonfuls of anchovy sauce ; a little pepper and salt; one tablespoonful of chopped shallot; one of chopped parsley ; one spoonful of chopped mushrooms ; four tablespoonfuls of claret; a piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Take three red mullets, place them in a tin in the oven with four spoonfuls of an- chovy sauce, a little pepper and salt. Put into a deep sautd-pan a tablespoon- ful of chopped shallot, the same of parsley, the same of chopped mushrooms, four table- spoonfuls of claret, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut. Stew them well together. When the fish is baked, pour this sauce over them. Eed Mullet Eaked. Time, twenty-five minutes. 66. Two mullets ; some essence of an- chovies ; a piece of butter; a little flour ; and the juice of half a lemon. Fold each mullet in oiled or well buttered paper, tie the ends, pass the string over them, and bake in a small dish in a moderate oven. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and the juice of half a lemon. Boil it and serve it in a sauceboat, and the fish in their paper cases. Trout Boiled. Time, twenty to thirty minutes. 67. The fish ; one wineglassful of vinegar ; water, salt, and a piece of horseradish. Rub and wipe the fish very dry, put them into a fish-kettle of boiling water with a wineglassful of vinegar, two tablespoonfuls of salt, and a piece of horseradish. Boil them slowly for twenty minutes or half an hour, talcing care that the skin is not broken, and serve them on a napkin with anchovy sauce, orplain melted butter. Baked Carp. Time, one hour and a quarter. In season from March to October. 68. One large carp ; forcemeat; egg; bread-crumbs ; a little butter ; one pint of stock ; half a pint of port wine ; two onions ; two bay-leaves ; a bunch of herbs ; six an- chovies ; one teaspoonful of mustard ; one of soy ; a little salt ; Cayenne ; and apiece of butter. Clean and scale a large carp ; put a stuffing as for soles dressed in the Portu- guese way, and sew it up ; brush it over with the yolk of an egg, and cover it with bread- crumbs, then drop some oiled butter over it. Place the carp in a deep earthen dish, with a pint of stock, two onions sliced, two bay-leaves, a bunch of herbs, half a pint of port wine, and six anchovies;