H5 Useful Receipts. Sweeten and flavour as preferred, then add the wine. Suet and Milk. Time, ten to fifteen minutes. 736. One tablespoonful of shredded beef- suet ; half a pint of fresh milk. Mix these ingredients and warm them sufficiently to melt the suet completely. Skim it. Warm the cup into which you pour it, and give it to the iqjralid to drink before it gets cool. Milk and Rum. 737. One tablespoonful of rum ; half a pint of new milk. Mix the rum well witn the milk. Pour it from one cup into another tvyice before drinking it. It should be taken before breakfast. USEFUL RECEIPTS FOR HOUSEKEEPERS AND SERVANTS. To Clean Marble Chimney Pieces. Time, ten minutes. 738. Equal* quantities of soft soap and pearl-ash. Put the soap and pearl-ash on the chim- . ney piece with a soft flannel, let it lay on the marble for a few minutes. Wash it off with warm water not too hot; wash it over a second time with cold spring water. For Bright Polished Grates. ■ 739. Oil the bright part of the grate with good salad oil, dust over it some nnslacked lime from a muslin bag. Let it remain one month, then mb it off with a fine rag. Polish it with a leather and a very little putty powder. If the grate is not in use put on the oil again. To Take Stains out of Marble. 740. Mix unslacked lime in finest powder with the stronger soap-lye pretty thick, and irtStantly with a painter's brush lay it on the whole of the marble. In two months' time wash it off perfectly clean. Then have ready a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft water, dip a brush in it, and scour the marble with powder not as com- mon cleaning. This will, by very good rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear off the soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush till the end be effected. To Take Rust out of Steel. 741. Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed in, and in forty-eight hours use un- slacked lime finely powdered, and mb until all the mst disappears. To Cement Broken China. 742. Beat lime to a very fine almost in- visible dust, sift it through Ijpok muslin. Then tie it up in a piece o£ thin muslin as powdered starch is sometimes used. Brush some white of egg over the edges of the china, dust the lime rapidly over them, put the edges together, and 'tie a string round the cup, &c., till it is firm. Isinglass dissolved in spirits ofjdne, in the proportion of one ounce to' two wine- glassfuls-of the spirit, is also a good cemgpt. For Removing Paint from Wood. 743. Ong pound of washing soda ; two pounds of unslacked liipe. Mix one pound of washing soda with two pounds of unslacked lime, and if the paint is very strong on the wood add half a pound of potash. Mix these ingredients together, and dilqte with water until the mixture be-* comes rather, thicker than whitewash, and then rub it on the, painrwith a piece of wood fSlded up in rag. The person who uses this preparation must’be careful not to touch it with the hands. To Clean Paper-hangings. 744. Fir^t blow the dust off with the bel- lows. Dmde a white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the crmjt into your hagd and, beginning at the top^f the paper; wipe it downwards in the lightest maimer with the crumb. Do not cross or go upwards. The dirt of the paper and the crumbs will fall together. Observe— you must not wipe above half a yard at a stroke, and after doing all the upper part “.go round again, beginning a little above where you left off. If you do not clean it very lightly you will make the dirt adhere to the paper. To Clean Glazed Chintz Furniture when taken down for the Summer. 745. Shake off the loose dust, then lightly brush with a small long-haired furniture bmsh ; after which wipe it closely with clean flannels, and rub it with dry bread. If properly done, the curtains will look nearly as well as at first, and if the colour be not light they will not require washing* for years. Fold in large parcels and put carefully by. While the furniture remains up it should be preserved from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours ;