64 Beef. a warm place. Lay a paper over the bung- hole to keep out the dust, but do not stop it up. It will be ready for use before the end of the year, when it may be tried, and if found not quite acid enough it must stand longer. When it is settled and can be bottled off make the same quantity again, as a seasoned barrel is a great help. Ketchup for Fish, or Elderberry Soy. 203. One quart of elderberries ; one quart of vinegar ; a quarter of a pound of ancho- vies ; a blade of mace ; a little ginger, salt, and whole peppers. Pour a quart of boiling vinegar over a quart of elderberries picked from the stalks, and set it in a cool oven all night; then strain the liquor from the berries, and boil it up with the mace; ginger, salt, whole peppers, and the anchovies, until they are dissolved. When cold, put it into bottles after it has been strained, and cork it down. Some prefer the spice put into the bottles ; but either way it is a good and not expensive soy. BEEF. To Make Tough Meat Tender. 204. Soak it in vinegar and water; if a very large piece, for about twelve hours. For ten pounds of beef use three quarts of water to three-quarters of a pint of vine- gar, and soak it for six or seven hours. Sirloin of Beef. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat. 205. Make up a good fire ; spit or hang the joint evenly, at about eighteen inches from it. Put a little clarified dripping in the dripping-pan, and baste the joint well as soon as it is put down to dress ; baste again every quarter of an hour till about twenty minutes before it is done ; then stir the fire and make it clear ; sprinkle a little salt, and dredge a little flour over the meat, turn it again till it is brown and frothed. Take it from the spit, put it on a hot dish, and pour over it some good made gravy, or mix the gravy left at the bottom of the dripping-pan with a little hot water and pour it over it. Garnish with fine scrapings of horseradish in little heaps, as in engrav- ing. Serve Yorkshire pudding with it on a separate dish. Sauce: horseradish. Bibs of Beef Rolled. Time, twenty minutes to the pound, or fif- teen minutes, and half an hour over. 206. Order the butcher to take out the bones of the joint; roll it into a round, and fasten it with skewers and a broad piece of tape in the shape of a round. Place it at the distance of eighteen inches before a large fire till it is partly dressed ; then move it gradually forward towards the fire. Put some clarified dripping in the pan ; baste it the moment the dripping melts, and do the same every quarter of an hour. Just before it is done—i.c., about twenty minutes before you remove it from the spit, dredge it with flour, and baste it with a little butter. Re- move the tape and skewer, and fasten it with a silver skewer instead. Serve with good gravy over it. Horseradish sauce. To Boil Beef. Reckon the time from the water coming to a boil. 207. Keep the pot boiling, but let it boil very slowly. If you let the pot cease boiling, you will be deceived in your time ; therefore watch that it does not stop, and keep up a sufficiently good fire. Just before the pot boils the scum rises. Be sure to skim it off carefully, or it will fall back and adhere to the meat, and disfigure it sadly. When you have well skimmed the pot, put in a little cold water, which will cause the. scum to rise again. The more carefully you skim, the cleaner and nicer the meat boiled will look. Put your meat into cold water. Liebig, the great German chemist, advises us to plunge the joint into boiling water, but the great cook Francatelli, and others of the same high standing, recommend cold ; and our own experience and practice are in accordance with the cook rather than the chemist. Put a quart of cold water to every pound of meat. Allow twenty minutes to the pound from the time the pot boils and the scum rises. It is more profitable to boil than to roast meat. Aitchbone of Beef. Time, twenty minutes to the pound. 208. Three-quarters of a pound of salt ; one ounce of moist sugar; aitchbone weighing ten pounds ; two gallons and a half of water. Dry the salt and rub it with the sugar in a mortar, then rub it well into the aitchbone of beef. Turn the joint and rub in some pickle every day for four or five days. Wash it well before you boil it. Put it into a large boiling pot, so as to let it be well surrounded and covered with cold water in the above proportion, set the pot on one side of the fire to boil gently ; if it boils fast at first nothing can prevent the meat .