Carving. 25 Shoulder of Veal is sent to table with I as a shoulder of mutton, beginning at the the underpart placed uppermost. Help it | knuckle end. Calf's Head.—There is much more meat to be obtained from a calf's head by carving it one way than another. Carve from A to B, cutting quite down to the bone. At the fleshy part of the neck end you will find the throat sweetbread, which you can help a slice of with the other part; you will remove the eye with the point of the knife and divide it in half, helping those to it who profess a preference for it ; there are some nice gelatinous pieces around it, which are palatable. Remove the jawbone, and then you will meet with some fine flavoured lean ; the palate, which is under the head, is by some thought a dainty, and should be offered when carving. A Shoulder of Mutton.—This is a joint upon which a great diversity of opinion exists, many professing a species of horror at its insipidity ; others finding much deli- cacy of' flavour in certain parts. In good mutton there is no doubt that, if properly managed, it is an excellent joint, and if ju- diciously carved, will give satisfaction to all who partake of it. It should be served and eaten very hot. It is sent to table lying on the dish as shown in the annexed en- graving. Commence carving from A to b, taking out moderately thin slices in the shape of a wedge ; some nice pieces may then be helped from the bladebone, from c to b, cutting on both sides of the bone. Cut the fat from D, carving it in thin slices. Some of the most delicate parts, however, lie on the under part of the shoulder ; take off thin pieces horizontally from B to C, and from A ; some tender slices are to be met with at d, but they must be cut through as indicated. The shoulder of mutton is essentially a joint of titbits, and therefore, when carving it, the tastes of those at table should be con- sulted. It is a very insipid joint when cold, and should therefore be hashed if sent to table a second time. A Shoulder of Mutton. Leg of Mutton. — The under or thickest part of the leg should be placed uppermost, and carved in slices mode- rately thin, from b to c. Many persons prefer the knuckle, and this question should be asked, and, if liked, it should be sent to the guest. When cold, the back of the leg should be placed upper- most, and thus carved ; if the cramp bone is requested (some persons regard it as a dainty), insert your knife at D, passing it round to e, and you will remove it. Leg of Mutton.