107 Potting. at the top, and as the salt melts it will keep it close. When you want to use it take a piece out, cover the tub over again, and it will keep good a long time. To Cure Neats’ Tongues. Time, ten to fourteen days. 476. Three tongues; one ounce and a half of salprunella ; one ounce and a half of saltpetre; one pound and a half of common salt. Take three neats’ tongues, cut off the roots without removing the fat that is under the tongue, wash them very clean, and dry them in a cloth ; then rub them well over with the saltpetre and salprunella, and repeat this for three or four days. Cover them with a pound and a half of common salt, and let them remain for three weeks, turning them every morning. Wipe them dry, rub some dry bran over them, and hang them to smoke for a fortnight, or dress them out of the pickle. Potted Ox-tongue. 477. One pound and a half of boiled tongue; six ounces of butter; a little Cayenne ; a small spoonful of pounded mace ; nutmeg and cloves. Cut about a pound and a half from an unsmoked boiled tongue, remove the rind. Pound it in a mortar as fine as possible with the butter, and the spices beaten fine. When perfectly pounded, and the spice well blended with the meat, press it into small potting-pans, and pour clarified butter over the top. A little roast veal added to the potted tongue is an improvement. Hams, Tongues, and Beef, Yorkshire Fashion. 478. One pound and a half of ham sugar ; two ounces of saltpetre ; one pound of common salt; half a pound of bay salt ; two ounces of pepper. The meat should be well rubbed over night with common salt, and well rubbed in the morning with the above ingredients. If hams, they should be rubbed before the fire every day and turned. Potted Fowl and Ham. 479. Some cold roast fowl; a quarter of a pound of lean ham ; six ounces of butter ; pepper; salt; nutmeg, and a pinch of Cayenne. Cut all the meat from a cold fowl, and remove the bones, skin, &c., then cut it into shreds, with a quarter of a pound of lean ham and six ounces of butter, the pepper, salt, nutmeg, and Cayenne, and pound it all in a mortar until reduced to a smooth paste. Then mix it thoroughly together, fill the potting-pots, pour over them a thick layer of clarified butter, and tie them down with a bladder. Set them in a dry place, and it will keep good for sometime. A little grated lemon peel is an improvement to the fowl. Potted Head. Time, five or six hours. 480. Half an ox head ; two cowheels , pepper, salt, and mace. Take half a head, and soak in salt and water. When well cleansed from the blood, put it with two cow-heels into a large stew- pan, and cover them with cold water. Set it over the fire, and let it boil till tender. Strain the meat from the liquor, and when cold, cut the meat and gristle into very small pieces. Take all the fat from the cold liquor in which the meat, &c., was first boiled, put the mince with it, and boil the whole slowly till perfectly tender and thick enough to jelly ; give it a quick boil, and put it in shapes. Before boiling the second time, add pepper and salt to your taste, and a little pounded mace if ap- proved. Potted Herrings. Time, two hours. 481. Herrings; white wine vinegar; a few bay-leaves. Cut off the heads and tails of the fish, clean, wash, and dry them well, sprinkle them with pepper and salt within and without, lay them in an earthen pan, and cover them with white wine vinegar. Set them in an oven not too hot (the roes at the top, but they are not to be eaten), till the bones are quite soft, which will be in about two hours. Some cut the fish down by the bone so as to open them, and then roll them up from the tail to the head. The bay-leaves are an improvement, and a little water may be added to the vinegar if pre- ferred. Cover them with paper. To Pot Lobsters. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour to boil the lobster. 482. One lobster ; two ounces of butter ; Cayenne pepper ; mace and white pepper ; clarified butter. Take from a hen lobster the spawn, coral, flesh, and pickings of the head and claws, pound well and season with Cay- enne, white pepper, and mace, according to taste. Mix it to a firm paste with good melted butter. Pound and season the flesh, from the tail and put it into a pot, and then fill with the other paste. Cover the top of each pot with clarified butter, and keep it in a cool place.