Curries and Indian Dishes. 93 of meat. Set it over a brisk fire, and stir it well together for ten or twelve minutes. When done, serve it with a border of boiled rice round the dish, or rice in a separate dish. Veal Curry. Time, one hour and a half. 391. One pound and three-quarters or t\vo pounds of lean veal ; one Spanish onion, or two small common ones ; one large sour apple ; a piece of butter the size of a large walnut; two dessertspoonfuls of curry powder ; one teaspoonful of flour; juice of half a lemon ; a pint of water. Cut a Spanish onion, or two small ones, into very small pieces, and a large sour apple into thin slices ; put them into a stew- pan with the butter, and stir it about until lightly browned. Then mix in the curry powder, the flour, and a pint of water ; add the veal cut into very small square pieces, seasoned with salt, and stir it round several times, that it may be well covered with the curry mixture. Put it over the fire to stew slowly for an hour and a half, or until the veal is tender. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon strained, stir it round, and serve with rice in a separate dish. Hindostanee Curry. Time, nearly two hours. 392. Two pounds of meat (beef, veal, or any other you prefer) ; one pint and a half of water; four tablespoonfuls of curry powder ; two onions ; one root of garlic ; three ounces of butter ; two tablespoonfuls of cocoa-nut milk—or good cream ; ten almonds ; six cloves ; a blade of mace, a small piece of cinnamon, and a few car- damom seeds ; juice of one lemon. Boil the meat in a pint and a half of water, till about half done, then take it out, and skim the broth ; and put to it the cloves, mace, cinnamon, and cardamom seeds. Cut the meat into small square pieces, roll them well in the curry powder, and fry them a nice brown in some butter. Cut up the onions and the root of garlic, and fry them also until brown, but separate from the meat. Then add the whole to the broth, with the cocoa-nut milk or a little good cream, and the almonds blanched and pounded. Cover the pan closely over, and let it stew gently over a slow fire until well mixed and very hot; and just before serving squeeze in the juice of a lemon. A Rabbit Curry. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 393. One rabbit; one large spoonful of curry powder ; half a dessertspoonful of curry paste ; one large onion, or two small ones; one ounce and a half of butter ; a rasher of bacon | one large sour apple ! a very little flour ; one pint of good broth or stock. Cut one large onion, or two small ones, with a large sour apple into slices, and fry them a nice brown in about an ounce and a half or two ounces of butter ; then stir in the curry powder and paste, and pour in a pint of good broth or stock. Divide the rabbit, and cut the joints into rather small pieces, split the head, dredge it with flour, and add it to the other ingredients, with a large slice of bacon cut into little square bits. Cover the stewpan, set it over the fire, and let it stew gently for about three- quarters of an hour, or until the meat will leave the bones easily, and the sauce is thick. Pour off any fat, and serve it with boiled rice in a separate dish. Ballachony. 394. One hundred prawns ; a little vine- gar ; two ounces of green ginger ; half an ounce of Chili; peel of four lemons ; two ounces of salt; juice of two lemons ; four onions ; two or three ounces of butter. Boil a hundred prawns, take off the shells and clean them, then grind them in a curry stone with sufficient vinegar to keep the stone wet. Take one ounce of green ginger, half an ounce of Chili, and the peel of four lemons, pound them separately ; then take two ounces of salt and the juice of two lemons, and mix all the ingredients with the prawns. Cut four onions in rings, and fry them with about two or three ounces of butter to keep them from burning. When the onions become soft and the ballachony dry, take it out and let it cool. To keep it any length of time, it must be put in jars with orange leaves on the top, and closed up with bladder. Bobotee—A Delicate Kind of Indian Curry. Time, half an hour. 395. One onion ; one ounce of butter; one cupful of milk ; one slice of bread ; six or eight sweet almonds; two eggs ; half a pound of minced cold meat or undressed meat; one tablespoonful of curry powder. Slice an onion and fry it in butter, soak in milk a small slice of bread, and grate six or eight sweet almonds, beat two eggs into half a cupful of milk, and mix the whole well together, with half a pound of minced meat, a small lump of butter, and one table- spoonful of curry powder. Rub a pie dish with butter and the juice of a lemon, and bake the curry thus made in not too hot an