Fruit Puddings. 112 but if boiled in a tin mould, do not let the water quite reach the top. To boil a pudding in a basin, dip a cloth in hot water, dredge it with flour, and tie it closely over the basin. When the pudding is done, take it from the water, plunge whatever it is boiling in, whether cloth or basin, suddenly into cold water, then turn it out immediately; this will prevent its sticking. If there is any delay in serving the pudding, cover it with a napkin, or the cloth in which it was boiled ; but it is better to serve it as soon as removed from the cloth, basin, or mould. Always leave a little space in the pudding basin for the pudding to swell; or tie the pudding cloth loosely for the same reason. Baked Puddings. Bread or rice puddings require a mode- rate heat for baking; batter or custard require a quick oven. The time needed for baking each particular pudding is given with the receipt. Eggs for puddings are beaten enough when a spoonful can be taken up clear from strings. Souffles require a quick oven. These should be made so as to be done the moment for serving, otherwise they will fall in and flatten. Apple, Gooseberry, Currant, or other Fruit Puddings. Time, one hour and a half. 509. One pound of flour ; six ounces of suet; water ; fruit. Make a paste as for beefsteak pudding, roll it out thin, and line a well-buttered basin with part of it, fill it with the apples pared and cored, a slice or two of lemon peel cut very thin, or a few cloves. Moisten the edges of the paste, cut out a piece and put it over the top, press it well together, and cut it neatly round that it may be of an equal thickness. Put the mould or basin into a floured cloth and tie it closely over. Then put it into a saucepan of boiling water and boil it. When done, turn it carefully from the basin on a hot dish. If boiled in a cloth, without a basin, the cloth must be dipped into hot water, dredged with flour, and laid into an empty basin, that the crust may be formed in it. All fruit puddings are made in the same manner, whether of gooseberries, currants, damson, greengages, &c. Baked Apple Pudding. 510. Half a pound of grated apples ; half a pound of butter ; half a pound of sugar ; yolks of six eggs ; whites of three ; juice of half a lemon ; peel of one ; a little puff paste. Grate half a pound of apples and add them to the butter beaten to a cream, the sugar pounded, the yolks of six whole eggs, and the whites of three beaten separately, the peel of one lemon grated, and the juice of half a one. Mix all thoroughly together, and put it into a dish with puff paste round the edge. Boiled Apple Dumplings. Time, to boil, one hour. 511. Eight apples and some suet crust. Pare and core eight fine apples, and cut them into quarters. Roll a nice suet crust half an inch thick, cut it into round pieces, and lay in the centre of each piece as many pieces of apple as it will contain. Gather the edges up, and pinch them together over the apple. When all the dumplings are made, drop them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil gently for nearly or quite an hour, then take each one care- fully out with a skimmer, place them all on a dish, and serve them quickly with butter, sugar, and nutmeg. To be eaten cut open, and the butter and sugar put into them. Baked Apple Dumplings. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 512. Some baking apples ; white of eggs ; some pounded sugar ; puff paste. Make some puff paste, roll it thin, and cut it into square pieces, roll one apple into each piece, put them into a baking dish, brush them with the white of an egg beaten stiff, and sift pounded sugar over them. Put them in a gentle oven to bake. Apple and Crumb Pudding. Time, to bake, half an hour. 513. Bread-cnimbs ; apples ; butter ; sugar ; and cinnamon powder. Put a layer of bread-crumbs over the bottom of a well buttered and rather deep dish, on the crumbs small pieces of butter, then a layer of apples pared, cored, and cut into slices, then sugar and the powdered cinnamon ; repeat this, beginning with the bread-crumbs, until your dish is full, and bake it in a moderate oven. When done, turn it out of the dish, and serve it with fresh cream poured over it, or the cream in a jug separately. Agnew Pudding. Time, half an hour. 514. Eight russets ; peel of half a lemon ; yolks of three eggs ; three ounces of butter ; sugar ; puff paste. Pare and core the apples, and boil them to a pulp with the lemon peel; well beat the eggs, and add them to the butter