126 Souffles and Omelets. Let it all simmer until the sugar and isin- glass are dissolved. Then strain it through muslin into a jug, add the vanilla flavour- ing, strain it again, and then pour it into a china mould, and let it stand all night in a very cold place. Ground Rice Blancmange. Time, a quarter of an hour to boil the rice. 612. Four ounces of ground rice or four full-sized tablespoonfuls of Colman’s British Corn Flour, and one quart of milk, sweet- ened to the taste, a pinch of salt. Mix a portion of the milk (cold) with the flour into a thin paste ; then add the remainder hot, with a piece of lemon-peel or cinnamon. Boil gently from eight to ten minutes, well stirring it all the time, moisten a mould with salad oil, and (after taking out the peel) pour the blancmange in to cool. Serve with preserved fruit, jelly, &c. London Syllabub. 613. A pint and a half of sherry; two ounces of sugar; grated nutmeg; two quarts of milk. Sweeten a pint and a half of sherry with the loaf sugar in a bowl, and add nutmeg. Milk into it from the cow about two quarts of milk. SOUFFLES AND OMELETS. Milan Souffle. 614. Four lemons ; six eggs ; half a pint of whipped cream ; two ounces of sugar ; one ounce of isinglass. Take four lemons, rub the peel on the sugar, put to it the yolks of six eggs made into a custard, and the juice of the lemons. Let it stand till cold, then add nearly half a pint of whipped cream and an ounce of isinglass. The whites of the eggs to be well whipped to a strong froth, and put round it with the whipped cream when cold. Omelet Souffle—A First-rate Receipt. 615. Twelve eggs ; two ounces of pow- dered sugar ; one dessertspoonful of orange- flower water ; one ounce of fresh butter. Separate the whites from the yolks of twelve eggs. Put the whites into a basin and beat them extremely fast till they form a very thick snow. Then beat six yolks separately, with two ounces of sugar, and a dessertspoonful of orange-flower water, or just enough to flavour it to your taste. Before beating the eggs have ready a round tin, well greased all over the inside with fresh butter. When you have finished beating the six yolks, mix them very quickly with the whites, lest the snow should turn—that is, melt into water. Put it then into the buttered tin, and place it in the oven. It will be so thick, if it is well and skilfully mixed, that there will be no fear of its running over. Watch it well; glancing at it from time to time through a little opening of the oven door, to see how it is going on ; as soon as it has risen very high, and is of a golden colour, take it out of the oven. Do not suffer the omelet souffld to remain long in the oven. If it is not watched it will fall in and become a mere galctlc. Let the oven be of a very gentle heat, or the bottom of the omelet will be burnt before the top is done. Before putting the tin in the oven, you may powder the snow with fine sugar; it crystallizes and produces a very pretty effect. As soon as the omelet is done it must be sent to table. If it waits for longer than ten minutes it falls in. The eggs should be beaten with a fork or a little whisk. If this souffle is liked a little more solid, add to the yolks of the eggs when beaten two dessertspoonfuls of rice boiled in milk, and flavoured with vanilla. In this case do not put in the orange-flower flavouring. The rice must be very well cooked, and well sweetened before it is added to the eggs. Friar’s Omelet. 616. Eight or nine large' apples ; two ounces of fresh butter; sugar to taste ; bread- crumbs. Boil eight or nine large apples to a pulp, stir in two ounces of butter, and add pounded sugar to taste. When cold, add an egg well- beaten up. Then butter the bottom of a deep baking-dish, and the sides also. Thickly strew crumbs of bread, so as to stick all over the bottom and sides. Put in the mixture, and strew bread-crumbs plenti- fully over the top. Put it into a moderate oven, and when baked turn it out, and put powdered sugar over it.