118 Baked and Boiled Puddings. Queen Mab’s Pudding. Time, half an hour. 554- One pint and a half of cream, or a pint of milk and half a pint of cream ; peel Of one lemon; six bitter almonds; one ounce of isinglass ; five ounces of sugar ; yolks of six eggs ; two ounaes and a half of dried cherries ; three ounces of preserved ginger ; two ounces of candied orange peel ; one ounce of pistachio-nuts. Blanch and bruise about six bitter almonds, cut the peel of a lemon very thin, and put both into a clean stewpan with a pint of milk; stir it at the side of the fire until it is at the point of boiling, and the flavour of the lemon and almonds is well drawn out. Then add an ounce of isinglass, and a very little salt. When, the isinglass is dissolved, strain the milk through muslin into another stewpan, and add the sugar broken, and the cream ; just allow it to boil, then stir quickly in the yolks of the eggs well- beaten, and stir it constantly and carefully to prevent its curdling, until it becomes of the thickness of a good custard ; then pour it out, and again stir it until nearly cold ; then mix with it the dried cherries, and the citron cut into shreds. Rub a drop of oil over a mould, pour in the mixture, and set it in a cold place or on ice, for some time before it is turned out. Preserved ginger may be substituted forthe dried cherries, and pistachio-nuts blanched and cut for the candied citron, with the syrup of the ginger poured round it; currants may also take the place of the cherries, but they must be steamed for a quarter of an hour before they are used ; and a sauce of sweetened raspberry, strawberry, or any other juice of fresh fruit may be served as sauce instead of the ginger syrup [see coloured plate). Muffin Pudding with Dried Cherries. Time, one hour 555. Four muffins ; one pint and a half of milk; a piece of lemon peel, and sugar to taste ; half a pound of dried cherries ; a wineglass of brandy; six eggs; two ounces and a half of sweet almonds ; a little nutmeg; puff paste. Boil a pint and a half of milk for ten or twelve minutes with a piece of lemon peel, and loaf sugar to your taste, pour it over four muffins. When cold, add half a pound of dried cherries, a glass of brandy, the almonds blanched and pounded, and the eggs well beaten. Mix all these well together, and either boil it in a basin or bake it in a dish lined with puff paste. Malvern Pudding. Time, ten or twelve minutes. 556. Some slices of stale bread ; one pint and a half of currants ; half a pint of rasp- berries ; four ounces of sugar; some whipped cream. Dip a pudding-basin into cold water, and line it with rounds of rather stale bread ; stew the currants and raspberries with the sugar for ten or twelve minutes after they are hot, fill the basin with the fruit, and cover it over with rounds of bread, put a plate on it with a weight, and set it in a cold place until the next day. Then turn it very carefully out, cover it with whipped cream, and pour round it a little of the currant and raspberry juice. Orange Marmalade Pudding. Time, an hour and three-quarters. 557. Five ounces of bread-crumbs; a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; three eggs ; half a cupful of new milk or cream ; and some orange marmalade ; three ounces of beef-suet. Chop three ounces of beef-suet as fine as possible, and stir it into the bread-crumbs ; add a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar pounded, the eggs well beaten, and a little milk or cream, and beat all well together for a quarter of an hour. When ready to put into the oven, stir it up quickly, and put a layer in a well-buttered tin or china mould, then a layer of orange marmalade, then of the mixture, and so on until the mould is full, letting the bread be at the top ; place it in a moderate oven for an hour and three- quarters, and then turn it out of the mould and serve. Montreal Pudding. Time, three hours. 558. Three eggs ; a wineglass of milk ; two ounces of brown sugar ; a quarter of a pound of flour; seven ounces of bread- crumbs, and a little nutmeg. Beat and strain the eggs through a sieve, and mix with them the milk, sugar, and nutmeg. Add the flour gradually, and mix it well together. Then stir in the bread- crumbs, and beat all together for at least half an hour before putting it into the saucepan. Well butter an earthen mould, or basin, put in the mixture, tie it tightly over, and let it boil three hours without stopping. Half a pound of stoned raisins may be added for a change. Marrow Pudding. Time, two hours. 559. One pint of grated bread ; one pint