Cakes. *35 Gingerbread Loaf. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 667. One pound of flour ; one pound of treacle ; six ounces of butter ; four ounces of moist sugar ; half an ounce of coriander seeds ; half an ounce of caraway seeds ; half a tablespoonful of pearlash mint, a quarter of a teacupful of cream : four eggs. Melt the treacle and the butter together, add the moist sugar, the coriander and caraway seeds ground together, and ginger to your taste ; mix with the flour. Bruise fine half a tablespoonful of pearlash mint with a very little cream. Mix all together. Beat four eggs and add them to the ginger- bread the very last thing. Line a tin with paper, butter it, and put the mixture in it. Bake in a slow oven. Gingerbread Nuts. Time, twenty minutes to half an hour. 668. One pound of Lisbon sugar ; two pounds of treacle ; three-quarters of a pound of butter ; four pounds of flour ; four ounces of ginger ; one ounce of allspice ; two spoon- fuls of coriander seed ; some candied orange peel; two spoonfuls of brandy ; yolks of four eggs. Mix the sugar, treacle, and butter, and melt all together; then stir in the flour, ground ginger, allspice, coriander seed, and the orange peel cut very small. Mix all into a paste with the eggs well beaten, and the brandy, and make them into nuts or cakes. Ginger Snaps. Time, twenty minutes to bake. 669. Half a pound of treacle ; quarter of a pound of brown sugar; one pound of flour ; one tablespoonful of ground ginger ; one of caraway seeds. Work a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of fine flour, then mix it with the treacle, brown sugar, ginger, and caraway seeds. Work it all well together, and form it into cakes not larger than a crown piece, place them on a baking tin in a moderate oven, when they will be dry and crisp. Sydenham Cake. Time, one hour to bake. 670. Half a pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; three ounces of pounded sugar ; one teaspoonful of caraway seeds ; a little ginger and nutmeg ; half a teaspoon- ful of pounded salts of ammonia. Rub the butter into the flour, and then mix in the seeds, and the ginger and grated nutmeg ; add the yolks of two well-beaten eggs, and the whites whisked separately to a stiff froth. Then mix all together with the salts, by putting them into a spoon, holding them over the cake, and pouring from a kettle sufficient boiling water to make all into a paste. Then put it into a tin lined with a buttered paper, and bake it. To ascertain when it is done, plunge a knife into the centre, and if it comes out clean the cake is ready. Rock Cakes. Time, half an hour. 671. Half a pound of butter ; one pound of flour ; half a pound of moist sugar ; forty drops of essence of lemon ; two eggs ; half a glass of brandy or white wine. Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of dried flour and half a pound of fine moist sugar. Mix the whole with two beaten eggs and half a glass of brandy or white wine. Drop them on a baking sheet, and bake them half an hour. To Make Buns. Time, to bake, twenty minutes. 672. Half an ounce of caraway seeds; half a pound of currants ; a little nutmeg ; a little lemon peel; two eggs ; one quart of new milk ; one ounce of butter ; two pounds of flour; a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar ; one or two spoonfuls of yeast ; one egg- Make a hole in the middle of the flour, and pour the milk in, with one or two spoon- fuls of yeast. Stir the dough, cover it over, and let it stand before the fire to rise for one hour. Then mix the caraway seeds, lemon peel, and nutmeg with one half, and the currants with the other, and cover all up together till the oven is ready. Make up the buns to a proper size, and put them on a tin baking sheet buttered. Beat up an egg, and bntsh them over with it. Cover them over again, and put them before the fire for another half hour. Then bake them. Do not make them too large. Sally Lunn Cakes. Time, twenty minutes. 673. One pint of boiling milk; half a tumbler of yeast; sufficient flour to form a stiff batter ; two eggs ; two ounces of pow- dered sugar ; a quarter of a pound of butter. Put a pint of boiling milk into a pan, and when it has become lukewarm pour half a tumbler of yeast upon it, stir it well, and add as much flour as will form a stiff batter. Cover the pan with a cloth, and place it before the fire for two hours ; beat up the eggs with the powdered sugar. After the dough has stood to rise the time specified, mix the butter with the sugar and eggs, add it to the dough, knead it, and let it remain