Beef Boiled and Stewed—Beef Olives. *5 from becoming hard and tough. The slower it boils the tenderer it will be and the better it will cook. The soft fat which lies on the back of an aitchbone of beef is delicious when hot; the hard fat is best cold. Save the liquor in which this joint is boiled for pea-soup. Garnish with slices of turnip and carrot, as in engraving. Silverside of Beef Boiled. Time, a quarter of an hour to each pound. 209. Ten or twelve pounds of the silver- side of beef; three gallons of water. After the beef has been in the pickle for about nine or ten days, take it out and wash it in water, skewer it up in a round form, and bind it with a piece of tape. Put it into a large stewpan of water, and when it boils remove the scum very carefully, or it will sink and spoil the appearance of the meat. Then draw the saucepan to one side of the fire, and let it simmer slowly until done. When ready to serve, draw out the skewers and replace them with a silver one. Pour over it a little of the liquor in which it has been boiled, and garnish with boiled carrots and parsnips. When taken from the water, trim off any soiled parts from the beef before sending it to table. A Beef Stew. Time, two hours and twenty minutes. 210. Two or three pounds of the rump of beef; one quart of broth ; pepper and salt; the peel of one large lemon, and the juicre; • two tablespoonfuls of Harvey sauce; one spoonful of flour ; a little ketchup. Cut away all the skin and fat from two or three pounds of the rump of beef, and divide it into pieces about two or three inches square ; put it into a stewpan, and pour on it a quart of broth ; then let it boil, and sprinkle in pepper and salt to taste. When it has boiled very gently, or simmered two hours, shred finely the peel of a large lemon, and add it to the gravy. In twenty minutes pour in a flavouring, composed of two spoonfuls of Harvey sauce, the juice of the lemon, the flour, and a little ketchup. Add at pleasure a glass of sherry, a quarter of an hour after flavouring it, and serve. Stewed Shin of Beef—A Family Dish. Time, four hours and a quarter. 211. A shin of beef; one bunch of sweet herbs ; one large onion ; one head of celery; twelve black pepper corns ; twelve allspice ; three carrots ; two turnips ; twelve small button onions. Saw the bone into three or four pieces ; put them into a stewpan, and just cover them with cold water. When the pot simmers, skim it clean ; and then add the sweet herbs, onion, celery, peppers and allspice. Stew it very gently over a slow fire till the meat is tender. Then peel the carrots and turnips and cut them into shapes; boil them with the button onions till tender. The turnips and onions will take a quarter of an hour to boil, the carrots half an hour. Drain them carefully. Put the meat when done on a dish, and keep it warm while you prepare some gravy thus: (*•<?•) Take a teacupful of the liquor in which the meat has been stewed, and mix with it three tablespoonfuls of flour ; add more liquor till you have a pint and a half of gravy. Season with pepper, salt, and a wineglass of mushroom ketchup. Boil it up, skim off the fat, and strain it through a sieve. Pour it over the meat, and lay the vegetables round it. Beef Olives. Time to stew, one hour and a half. 212. A pound and a half of rumpsteak ; three yolks of eggs ; a little beaten mace ; pepper and salt; a teacupful of bread- crumbs ; two ounces of marrow or suet; a sprig of parsley ; the rind of half a lemon ; one pint of brown gravy ; a tablespoonful of ketchup ; one of browning; a teaspoonful of lemon vinegar ; a piece of butter rolled in flour ; eight forcemeat balls. Cut the steak into slices of about half an inch thick and six or seven inches long, rub them over with the yolk of a beaten egg, and strew thickly over them some bread- crumbs, the marrow or suet chopped fine, then the parsley minced, the grated rind of half a large lemon, a little beaten mace, and some pepper and salt, all mixed well together. Roll each olive round, fasten it with a small skewer, and brow'n them lightly before the fire in a Dutch oven. Then put them into a stewpan with the gravy, ketchup, browning, and lemon vinegar, thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and serve the olives in the gravy. Garnish with force- meat balls. Fillets de Boeuf. Time, to fry, eight minutes. 213. The wider-cut of a large sirloin of beef; two ounces of butter; a teacupful of rich gravy ; one tablespoonful of Espag- nole sauce ; pepper and salt; one squeeze of lemon juice to taste. Take every morsel of skin and sinews from a large piece of under-cut of sirloin of beef, cut it into small slices of about a F