Made Dishes. of herbs ; a small onion ; one ounce of butter rolled in flour. Put the bones of the cold veal, or any other bones you may have, into a stewpan with the skin and trimmings of the meat. Dredge in a little flour, pour in more than a pint of water, the onion sliced, the lemon peel, the herbs and seasoning. Simmer these ingredients for more than an hour ; then strain the gravy, thicken it with the butter rolled in flour, boil it again, and skim it well. While the gravy is making, mince the veal finely, but do not chop it up too fine. When the gravy is ready, put it in and warm it gradually ; add the lemon juice, then put in the milk, or a little cream if you can afford it. Do not let it quite boil, but as it is on the point of doing so, take it off the fire. Cut some thin slices of bread, toast them, and cut them into sippets ; garnish the dish the whole way round the edge with them. Pile the mince in the centre of the dish, garnish with tiny rolls of fried bacon, and quarter-slices of lemon. Place three nicely poached eggs on the top, and you will have a very pretty as well as a nice dish for the table. Calf’s Heart Roasted. Time, from half an hour to an hour, depending on the size. 379. Put the heart to disgorge in luke- warm water for an hour nearly ; then wipe it dry, stuff it with a nice and highly seasoned veal stuffing or forcemeat. Cover it with buttered paper, and set it down to roast at a good fire. Serve it with good gravy, or any sharp sauce. Send it up as hot as possible to table. Stewed Sweetbreads. Time, thirty-five minutes. 380. One or two sweetbreads ; one pint of veal broth ; some marjoram ; mace ; pep- per; salt ; flour ; yolks of two eggs. Soak the sweetbreads in warm water, and then put them into a stewpan with the veal broth, pepper, salt, and mace, with a little marjoram, and let them stew for rather more than half an hour. When done, place them on a hot dish ; thicken the gravy with a little flour, and the beaten yolks of two eggs, pour the sauce over the sweetbreads, and serve. Roast Sweetbreads. Time, half an hour. 381. Two sweetbreads ; one egg; bread- crumbs ; clarified butter ; butter; juice of a lemon ; a little Cayenne. 91 Trim off the tough part of the sweetbreads, and blanch them for nearly two hours in a stewpan of boiling water with a little salt. Then take them out, and put them into cold water until they are cool. Run a skewer through the sweetbreads, ancl fasten them on a spit, brush them over with the yolk of a well-beaten egg, shake bread-crumbs over them, sprinkle them with clarified butter, and again with bread-crumbs; roast them for a quarter of an hour. When done, take them from the skewers, and make a sauce of a little butter, a little lemon juice, and a pinch of Cayenne, make it hot, and serve it in the dish under the sweet- breads. Garnish with slices of lemon. Calf’s Liver a la Mode. Time, two hours and a quarter. 382. A calf s liver; seven ounces of bacon ; two ounces and a half of butter ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; two onions ; six cloves ; one clove of garlic ; three carrots ; two turnips ; one wineglass of brandy ; one of wine ; one tablespoonful of Harvey sauce. After well washing the calfs liver, soak it for a short time in cold water, then wipe it dry, and insert lardoons of bacon at equal distances in the interior part of the liver ; put it into a stewpan with about two ounces and a half of butter, a small bunch of sweet herbs tied together, half a blade of mace, and a small onion stuck with six cloves, and fry it a nice brown ; then add three carrots, two turnips, an onion cut into wheels, and a wineglass of brandy with sufficient water to just cover the whole; baste it frequently with its own gravy, and let it simmer slowly for two hours. When done, take out the liver and put it on a dish garnished with the cut vegetables, strain and skim the gravy, add the sauce and glass of wine, boil it to the quantity required, pour it over the liver, and serve it up hot. Boiled Calf’s Feet. Time, nearly three hours to stew. 383. Two calf s feet ; parsley and butter. Bone two or three calfs feet as far as the first joint, and soak them in warm water for two hours, then put them into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them, and let them stew gently ; take them out on a hot dish, and pour over them some good parsley and butter sauce. Veal Olives. Time, twenty minutes. 384. Some slices of veal; a slice or two of fat bacon ; some forcemeat ; a shallot; Cayenne pepper ; egg ; some brown gravy. Cut some thin slices of veal rather wide,