76 Stewed and Boiled Veal—Calf's Liver and Bacon. Stewed Knuckle of Veal and Rice. Time, three hours. 275. Six pounds of knuckle of veal ; two blades of mace; half a pound of rice; a little salt ; one onion. Take off some cutlets or collops before you dress the meat, so as to have the knuckle small ; break the shank bone, wash it well, and put it into a stewpan with suffi- cient water to cover it, bring it gradually to a boil, put in a little salt, and skim it well ; let it simmer gently for nearly three-quarters of an hour, then add half a pound of rice, the onion, and the blades of mace, and stew all together for more than two hours. Take up the meat, and pour over it the rice, &c. Serve it with parsley and butter sauce, and boiled bacon in a separate dish. Garnish with vegetables. Knuckle of Veal Boiled. Time, twenty minutes to each pound. 276. A knuckle of veal ; a dessertspoonful of salt; parsley and butter. Put a knuckle of veal into a stewpan, and pour over it sufficient water to cover it ; let it simmer slowly, and when it reaches the boiling point throw in a dessertspoonful of salt ; keep it well skimmed, and let it boil until tender, then serve it with parsley and butter, and a salted pig's cheek. Three-quarters of a pound of rice may also be boiled with it. Serve with green peas or stewed cucumber. Veal Stewed with Vegetables. Time, nearly one hour. 277. Three pounds of veal; one dessert- spoonful of salt; one teaspoonful of pepper ; two small carrots ; two sprigs of parsley ; one leek ; six small potatoes ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; a tablespoonful of flour. Wash three pounds of veal in cold water, then cut it up rather small, and put it into a stewpan with just sufficient water to cover it; add a dessertspoonful of salt, and a tea- spoonful of pepper; cover the pan close, and let it simmer for twenty-five minutes, then skim it clean. Whilst the meat is stewing, scrape two small carrots, cut them into slices a quarter of an inch thick, stamp the edges with a cutter, and boil them until they are tender. Dip two sprigs of parsley into boiling water, and mince it fine ; cut a leek into small slices; pare and cut six small potatoes in halves or quarters ; take the carrots from the water with a skimmer ; put a quarter of a pound of fresh butter to the meat ; dredge over it a tablespoonful of browned flour and add the vegetables. Cover the pan, and let it stew gently for half an hour ; then take out the meat on a dish, put the vegetables round the edge, and pour the gravy over it. Veal Cutlets. Time, twelve to fifteen minutes. 278. A veal cutlet; one bunch of sweet herbs ; bread-crumbs; nutmeg ; peel of half a lemon; yolks of two eggs; one ounce of butter ; a little flour and water. Let the cutlet be about half an inch thick, and cut it into pieces the size and shape of a crown piece. Chop the herbs very fine ; mix them well with the bread- crumbs. Brush the cutlets over with yolk of egg, then cover them with the bread- crumbs and chopped herbs ; fry them lightly in butter, turning them when required. Take them out when done. Mix about an ounce of fresh butter with the grated peel of half a lemon, a little nut- meg, and flour ; pour a little water into the frying-pan, and stir the butter, flour, and grated lemon peel into it; then put the cutlets into this gravy to heat. Serve them piled in the centre of the dish with thin rolls of bacon as a garnish. Calf’s Liver and Bacon. Time, quarter of an hour. 279. Two pounds and a half of calf's liver; one pound of bacon ; juice of one lemon ; two ounces of butter ; a little flour ; pepper and salt. Soak the liver in cold water for half an hour, then dry it in a cloth, and cut it into thin naiTow slices ; take about a pound of bacon, or as much as you may require, and cut an equal number of thin slices as you have of liver; fry the bacon lightly, take it out and keep it hot ; then fry the liver in the same pan, seasoning it with pepper and salt, and dredging over it a little flour. When it is a nice brown, arrange it round the dish with a roll of bacon between each slice. Pour off the fat from the pan, put in about two ounces of butter well rubbed in flour to thicken the gravy; squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add a cupful of hot water ; boil it, and pour it into the centre of the dish. Serve it garnished with forcemeat balls or slices of lemon. PORK. Sucking Pig—to Scald it. 280. A sucking pig should be dressed the day after it is killed, if possible, and should not be more than three weeks or a month old. The pig is generally sent from the