Carving. 24 Sirloin of Beef. Fillet of Veal. Neck of Veal. Breast of Veal. moderate thickness. When the joint is boiled, before cutting it, remove a slice from the whole of the upper part, of sufficient thickness (say a quarter of an inch), to arrive at the juicy part of the meat at once. Carve from a to b ; let the slices be moderately thin —not too thin—help fat with the lean in one piece, and give a little addi- tional fat which you will find below C ; the solid fat is at A, and must be cut in slices horizontally. The round of beef is carved in the same manner. The Sirloin of Beef.—The under part should be first carved, as indicated in the engraving, across the bone. In carving the upper part the same directions should be followed as for the ribs, carving either side, or in the centre, from A to B, and helping the fat from D. Fillet of Veal.—Cut a slice off the whole of the upper part, in the same way as from a round of beef, this being, if well roasted, of a nice brown, should be helped in small pieces with the slices you cut for each person. The stuffing is skewered in the flap, and where the bone comes out there is some placed ; help this with the meat, with a piece of the fat. Neck of Veal.—Were you to attempt to carve each chop, and serve it, you would not only place a gigantic piece upon the plate of the person you intended to help, but you would waste much time, and should the ver- tebras have not been jointed by the butcher, you would find yourself in the position of the ungraceful carver, being compelled to exercise a degree of strength which should never be suffered to appear ; very possibly, too, helping gravy in a manner not contemplated by the person unfortunately near enough to receive it. Cut diago- nally from B to A, and help in slices of moderate thickness ; you can cut from c to D in order to separate the small bones, divide and serve them, having first inquired if they are de- sired. The Breast of Veal.— Sepa- rate the ribs from the brisket, cutting from A to b ; these small bones are the sweetest and mostly chosen ; you will cut them as at n D D, and serve. The long ribs are divided as at c C C ; and having ascertained the prefe- rence of the person, help accordingly; at good tables the scrag is not served, but is found, when properly cooked, a very good stew. Loin of Veal.—This joint is sent to table served as a sirloin of beef. Having turned it over, out out the kidney and the fat, return it to its proper position, and carve it, as in the neck of veal, from B to A , help with it a slice of kidney and fat. The kidney is usually placed upon a dry toast when removed from the joint.