Cookery for the Sick. 142 Lemonade. Time, two hours. 710. Six lemons ; one quart of boiling water ; one or two ounces of clarified sugar. Grate the peel of six lemons, pour a quart of boiling water on it; let it stand some time; then add the juice of the lemons (take care not to let the lemon pips fall into the liquid), sweeten it with clarified sugar, and run it through a jelly bag. Wine Whey. Time, five minutes. 711. Half a pint of milk ; sugar to taste ; one wineglass of white wine. Put half a pint of milk over the fire, sweeten it to taste, and when boiling throw in a wineglass of sherry. As soon as the curd forms, strain the whey through muslin into a tumbler. Egg Flip. 712. Three eggs ; a quarter of a pound of good moist sugar ; a pint and a half of beer. Beat three whole eggs with a quarter of a pound of good moist sugar ; make a pint and a half of beer very hot, but do not let it boil, then mix it gradually with the beaten eggs and sugar, toss it to and fro from the saucepan into a jug two or three times, grate a little nutmeg on the top, and serve it. A wineglass of spirits may be added if liked. Directions for Brewing in Cottages. (A Receipt of the late Duchess of Buck- ingham’s.) Time, three or four days. 713. One peck of malt; two ounces of hops; six gallons of water; a few birch COOKERY FC Arrowroot. 714. Half a pint of milk ; one dessert- spoonful of arrowroot; sugar to taste; lemon peel. Take care to get the very best arrowroot, as many imitations are sold. Mix a des- sertspoonful with a little cold water till it is quite smooth. Boil half a pint of milk ; pour it on the arrowroot, while boiling, stirring it all the time. Add a lump or two of sugar, and a little lemon peel. Water Arrowroot. 715. One dessertspoonful of arrowroot ; one gill of water ; sugar ; one tablespoonful of brandy, or one wineglass of wine. Mix a dessertspoonful of arrowroot with a little water very smooth. Have ready water in a kettle quite boiling. Pour it on the arrowroot till it becomes clear, stirring twigs, or a little wheat straw ; one teacupful of yeast. Boil three gallons of water ; take it off as soon as it boils, and let it stand till you can see your face in it. While the water is heating get ready a clean rinsing-tub with a small hole bored in the bottom, and stopped with a peg or cork. Cover it with a few birch twigs or some clean wheat straw ; put a coarse bit of cloth over the bottom of the tub ; then put in the malt. Pour the water on it, and stir it well for a few minutes. Cover it close with a sack, and let it stand for three days to keep warm near the fire ; then pull out the peg or cork, and let the whole run into a bucket. Put the peg in again immediately, and having prepared another three gallons of water just as you did before, pour it on the malt and set it by the fire as before, covered close, for two hours. As soon as you have emptied he second three gallons of water out of the boiler put into it the first run from the malt, and boil it a quarter of an hour with the hops. Strain it through a sieve into a shallow vessel to cool as quickly as possible. Run off the second three gallons, and boil them with the same hops for half an hour ; then strain and cool as for the first run. Mix both runs from the malt together ; add a small teacupful of yeast, and let it ferment for two or three days, during which time it must be frequently skimmed. Three pints of nice yeast will thus be obtained. When the fermentation is over, put the beer in a small cask, where it will probably ferment a little, after which stop it down close. R THE SICK. it all the time. A few lumps of sugar and the wine or brandy can be mixed with it before pouring the boiling water on it, using the wine or brandy to mix the arrowroot with instead of the water. Bread Jelly. 716. One roll; one lemon ; one quart of water ; sugar to taste. Take the crumb of a pepny roll; cut it into thin slices, and toast them of a pale brown on both sides. Put them into a quart of spring water. Let it simmer over the fire till it has become a jelly. Strain it through a thin cloth, and flavour it imme- diately with a little lemon juice and sugar. Broth—Chicken. 717. Take an old fowl; stew it to pieces with a couple of onions. Season lightly with pepper and salt; skim and strain it.