12 7 CREAMS. Stone Cream. Time, to boil, one minute ; to stand, one night. 617. One pot of preserved apricots or plums ; half an ounce of isinglass ; one pint of cream ; one lemon ; two teaspoonfuls of crushed white sugar (more or less, to taste). Take a glass dish and line it at the bottom about an inch thick with preserved apricots or plums, dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in a little water, strain it, add to it a pint of thick cream, the peel of the lemon grated, enough sugar to make it pleasant to your taste. Let it boil one minute ; then put it into a jug that has a spout. When it is nearly cold, but not quite set, squeeze into it the juice of the lemon (or rather, squeeze the lemon in a cup and add it to the cream, lest a pip should fall into the jug). Pour it into the dish (from a jug with a spout) over the sweetmeat, and let it stand all night. Place on the top a few ratafias. Any very nice jam may be substituted for the apricot, but the latter is best of all. Wine sours are perhaps the best substitutes for apricots. Velvet Cream. Time, until the isinglass is dissolved. 618. One ounce of isinglass ; a breakfast- cup of white wine ; juice of one large lemon ; the peel rubbed with sugar; one pint of cream. Put the ounce of isinglass into a stewpan with a large cupful of white wine, the juice of a large lemon, and sufficient sugar to sweeten it rubbed on the peel to extract the colour and flavour. Stir it over the fire until the isinglass is dissolved, and then strain it to get cold. Then mix with it the cream, and pour it into a mould. Coffee Cream. 619. One large cupful of made coffee ; four ounces of sugar; three-quarters of a pint of milk ; yolks of eight eggs; two ounces of gelatine. Put three-quarters of a pint of boiled milk into a stewpan with a large cupful of made coffee, and add the yolks of eight well- beaten eggs and four ounces of pounded loaf sugar. Stir the whole briskly over a clear fire until it begins to thicken, take it off the fire, stir it for a minute or two longer, and strain it through a sieve on the two ounces of gelatine. Mix it thoroughly together, and when the gelatine is dissolved, pour the cream into a mould, previously dipped into cold watGr, and set the mould on rough ice to set. Lemon Cream. 620. One pint of water; peel of three large lemons ; juice of four lemons ; six ounces of fine loaf sugar ; whites of six eggs. Pare into a pint of water the peel of three large lemons ; let it stand four or five hours ; then take them out, and put to the water the juice of four lemons and six ounces of fine loaf sugar. Beat the whites of six eggs and mix it all together, strain it through a lawn sieve, set it over a slow fire, stir it one way until as thick as good cream, then take it off the fire and stir it until cold, and put it-into a glass dish. Orange cream may be made in the same way, adding the yolks of three eggs. Lemon Cream without Cream. Time, five or six minutes. 621. Two ounces of gelatine or isinglass ; three-quarters of an ounce of bitter almonds ; three lemons ; one quart of new milk ; yolks of seven eggs ; ten ounces of loaf sugar. Put a quart of new milk into a stewpan with the peel of three small lemons cut thin, ten ounces of loaf sugar pounded, three- quarters of an ounce of bitter almonds, blanched and pounded to a paste, and about two ounces of gelatine or isinglass. Boil the whole over a moderate fire for eight or nine minutes, until the gelatine or isinglass is thoroughly dissolved. Then strain it through a fine sieve into a jug with a lip to it; stir in the yolks of seven well- beaten eggs, and pour the mixture from one jug to another until barely cold ; then add the strained juice of three small lemons, stir it quickly together, and pour it into an oiled mould. Raspberry Cream without Cream. Time, one hour. 622. A quarter of a pound of raspberry jam or jelly ; a quarter of a pound of sugar beaten fine ; whites of four eggs. Pound and sift the sugar, mix it with the jam or jelly, and the whites of four eggs. All to be beaten together for one hour, and then put in lumps in a glass dish. Chantilly Basket, with Whipped Straw- berry Cream and Fruit. 623. Sixty-two macaroons ; some melted barley-sugar; strawberry cream ; and twenty- four strawberries.