1 IO Fruit Tarts—Mince Pies. with short pie-crust rolled thin, pare some cooking apples, cut them in small pieces, fill the pie-dish with them, strew over them a cupful of fine moist sugar, three or four cloves, or a little grated lemon peel, and add a few spoonfuls of water ; then cover with puff paste crust, trim off the edges with a sharp knife, and cut a small slit at each end, pass a gigling iron around the pie half an inch inside the edge, and bake in a quick oven. Open Apple Tart. Time, to bake in a quick oven ; until the paste loosens from the dish. 497. One quart of sliced apples ; one tea- cupful of water ; one of fine moist sugar ; half a nutmeg; yolk of one egg ; a little loaf sugar and milk ; puff paste. Peel and slice some cooking apples and stew them, putting a small cupful of water and the same of moist sugar to a quart of sliced apples, add half a nutmeg and the peel of a lemon grated, when they are tender set them to cool. Line a shallow tin pie-dish with rich pie paste or light puff paste, put in the stewed apples half an inch deep, roll out some of the paste, wet it slightly over with the yolk of an egg beaten with a little milk, and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar, cut it in very narrow strips and lay them in crossbars or diamonds across the tart, lay another strip round the edge, trim off the outside neatly with a sharp knife, and bake in a quick oven until the paste loosens from the dish. Damson Tart. Time, to bake, three-quarters of an hour. 498. One pint and a half of damsons ; five or six ounces of moist sugar ; half a pound of puff paste. Pick any stalks from the damsons and pile them high in the dish, strew the sugar well amongst the fruit, and pour in two or three spoonfuls of water. Line the edge of the pie-dish with a good puff paste, cover it with paste, and bake it in a well-heated oven. A short time before the tart is done, brush it over with the white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, sift pounded sugar over it, and return it to the oven for about ten minutes. Meringue Tart. 499. An open tart of any preserves, jams, or stewed fruit; whites of two eggs; a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; flavour- ing of vanilla or lemons. Make any nice rich tart of preserve, jams, or stewed fruit ; whisk the whites of two eggs with a quarter of a pound of pounded loaf sugar and a flavouring of vanilla or lemon until it can be moulded with a knife, lay it over the tart nearly an inch thick, and put it into the oven for a few minutes until it is slightly coloured. Serve it hot or cold. Mince Pies. Time, twenty-five to thirty minutes. 500. Puff paste ; mincemeat. Roll out the puff paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch ; line some good-sized patty-pans with it, fill them with mincemeat, cover with the paste, and cut it close round the edge of the patty-pan. Put them in a brisk oven. Beat the white of an egg to a stiff froth ; brush it over them when they are baked ; sift a little powdered sugar over them; replace them in the oven for a minute or two to dry the egg. Serve them on a table napkin very hot. Cold mince pies will re-warm and be as good as fresh. German Pastry. Time, fifteen minutes. 501. The weight of two eggs in butter, flour, and sugar ; any preserve you like. Take two eggs well beaten, and mix them with their weight in flour and sugar. Beat well together with a fork, lay half the paste on a tin, and put it into a brisk oven. When a little set, spread over it preserve of apricot, or strawberry jam. Then add the remainder of the paste, and bake it again till quite set. When cold, sift a little sugar over it, and cut it into narrow strips. Tartlets. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 502. Some rich puff paste ; any preserve you please, or marmalade. Cut as many rounds of rich puff paste with a tin cutter as you require. Then cut an equal number, and press a smaller cutter inside them to remove the centre and leave a ring. Moisten the rounds with water, and place the rings on them. Put them into a moderate oven for ten or twelve minutes, and when done, fill the centre with any preserve of apricot, strawberry, or orange marmalade. Stamp out a little of the paste rolled very thin, into stars, &c. Bake them lightly, and place one on the top of each tartlet. Serve them hot or cold. Orange Tartlets. Time, to bake, fifteen to twenty minutes. 503. Two Seville oranges ; a piece of butter the size of a walnut; twice the j weight of the oranges in pounded sugar ; I puff paste. I Take out the pulp from two Seville oranges, boil the peels until quite tender,