Kitchen Utensils. J9 To use the Stove in the open air, it will be necessary to have about ten feet of perpen- dicular pipe, to ensure a proper draught. Economy in the use of fuel is not to be neglected by the housekeeper. Cinders should be carefully sifted. The grate (if the ordinary one alone be possessed) should be screwed in as soon as the fire for cooking is no longer required. The fire at the back of the open range may then be made of small coals, wetted and left to cake. Cinders may be used for ironing stoves, and for heating ovens. The Cottager’s Stove will be found an economical assistant to the common open range in small kitchens. Ordinary Jelly Moulds. Plain Directions for Roasting, &c. How to Roast.—Roasting meat, though one of the commonest modes of dressing it, is by no means an easy task. Roast meat is too often sent to table nearly raw, or dried up till there is scarcely any gravy in it. Now good roasting consists in dressing the joint the r rughly, and yet retaining its juices in it. The cook should prepare her fire some little time before she puts the meat down. The grate should be let out sufficiently wide to take in the whole size of the joint, with a margin to spare on each side, and the fire should be so good as not to require making up during the time the joint is roasting ; it should be sufficiently large to be of an equal strength all the time the meat is dressing, aided by a large coal put on the top of it occasionally. A great deal of the success in roasting will depend on the heat and good- ness of the fire. Begin roasting by placing the meat at some distance from the fire (about eighteen inches), and baste it from the first. When it is half done, move it gradually nearer to the fire for it to be well browned. If the meat were to be put close to the fire at first, it would diy up, and the outside would be dressedbefore the heat had penetrated the mass ; the juices being thus shut in, the joint would be under-dressed. Some persons prefer meat roasted very slowly. That method is expensive, because it requires a large fire to be kept up for a length of time ; and also, unless done by a cook who understands her business well, and who makes a fire fit for it, the meat is apt to get sodden. We need scarcely say that the meat screen should be placed behind it from the first of its being put down. Cover the fat of veal or lamb with a piece of paper tied on with twine. Baste the meat very frequently, for the Jelly Bag, used for Straining Jelly. more it is basted the better it will eat. When it is nearly done, the paper over the fat maybe removed, and the joint lightly dredged with flour, in order to give it a savoury brown appearance called frothing. Sprinkle a very little salt on it also ; but not till it is just ready to dish up, as salt draws out the gravy. The usual time allowed for roasting is a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes for each pound of meat. But this rule does not always answer. Meat fresh killed takes longer to roast than when it has been kept long ; and in warm weather it takes less time than in cold. Brown meats require less time than white meats do. In frosty weather, it is better to lay the joint before the fire to thaw before it is put on the spit, as, if frozen, it will be impossible to calculate the time required for dressing it, and in fact it will never be dressed through. The cook should always be careful that the spit, and also the hook used in the bottle-jack, be wiped before they are used. She should also be careful how she hangs the meat, so as to avoid disfiguring it by running the spit through the prime parts. Cradle spits are much the best for large kitchens ; for small families, the bottle-jack in a tinned screen does very well, or, better still, the improved spring-jack and roaster. Let the butcher chop the joints of necks and loins of mutton and lamb before they are dressed, or they cannot be well sepa- rated by the carver when they are sent to table. When the roast meat has been taken up, the fat which has dripped from it into the pan should be poured into a basin pre-