125 FLUMMERY, BLANCMANGE, SYLLABUB, &c. Eice Flummery. 606. Four ounces and a half of ground rice; six tablespoonfuls of milk; three ounces of loaf sugar ; twelve drops of almond flavouring. Boil four ounces and a half of ground rice in six tablespoonfuls of milk, stirring it all the time. When tolerably thick, add three ounces of powdered loaf sugar, and twelve drops of almond flavouring. Then pour it into an oiled mould, set it in a cold place, and the next day turn it out, and serve with baked pears round it, or with cream and preserve. Lemon Custard. 607. Half a pound of loaf sugar ; juice and peel of two lemons ; yolks of four eggs ; the whites of two ; pint of white wine. Take half a pound of loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, the peel of one pared very thin, boiled tender and rubbed through a sieve, and a pint of white wine. Let all boil for a quarter of an hour, then take out the peel and a little of the liquor, and set them to cool. Pour the rest into the dish you intend for it. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the whites, and mix them with the cool liquor. Strain them into your dish, stir them well up together, and set them on a slow fire in boiling water. When done, grate the peel of a lemon on the top, and brown it over with a salamander. This custard may be eaten hot or cold. Plain Boiled Custard. Time, about twenty minutes to infuse the peel; ten or fifteen minutes to stir the custard. 608. One quart of milk ; ten eggs ; peel of one lemon ; three laurel leaves; a quarter of a pound of sugar. Pour a quart of milk into a delicately- clean saucepan with three laurel leaves arid the peel of a lemon, set it by the side of the fire for about twenty minutes, and when on the point of boiling strain it into a basin to cool. Then stir in a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, and the ten eggs well beaten, again strain it into a jug, which place in a deep saucepan of boiling water, and stir it one way until it thickens; then pour it into a glass dish, or into custard cups. You may put a knob of coloured jelly on the top of each custard cup if you please. Blancmange. Time, fifteen minutes. 609. One ounce of isinglass or gelatine ; two ounces of blanched and pounded al- monds ; one ounce of bitter ones ; one pint and a half of milk ; one pint of cream ; one lemon ; a spoonful of rosewater ; and two ounces of loaf sugar. Put into a delicately-clean stewpan the isinglass or gelatine, the sweet and bitter almonds blanched and pounded, the new milk and cream, the lemon juice and the peel grated, with loaf sugar to taste. Set the stewpan over a clear fire, and stir it till the isinglass is dissolved, then take it off and continue stirring it till nearly cold before putting it into the mould. This quantity will fill a quart mould, but if you wish to make it in a smaller shape, you must not put more than a pint of milk and half a pint of cream. Colour the top ornament with cochineal, and let it get cold before you add the rest of the blancmange. Arrowroot Blancmange. Time, about half an hour. 610. Two ounces of arrowroot ; one pint and a half of milk ; three laurel leaves; sugar to taste • one tablespoonful of brandy or noyeau. Mix the two ounces of arrowroot with a large cupful of the milk into a smooth thick batter ; boil the remainder of the milk with three laurel leaves until sufficiently flavoured; then strain the milk into a jug and pour it over the arrowroot, stirring it constantly; add sugar to taste, and stir it over a clear fire until very thick, add a tablespoonful of brandy or of noyeau, and pour it into an oiled mould. Set it in a cold place or in ice if you have it. When firm, turn it care- fully out on a dish, and garnish it with fruit or flowers. Cheap Blancmange. Time, fifteen minutes altogether. 6rr. One quart of new milk ; one ounce of isinglass ; two tablespoonfuls of boiling water ; a quarter of a pound of sugar ; one large lemon ; a stick of cinnamon ; half a teaspoonful of vanilla flavouring. Pour two spoonfuls of boiling water over an ounce of isinglass, rub part of the sugar on the lemon, and when the flavour and colour are well extracted, put it with the re- mainder of the sugar into a stewpan with a j quart of milk and a stick of cinnamon.