120 Baked and Boiled Puddings. Soak a pint and a half of split peas for several hours. Then tie them loosely in a cloth, and put them into a saucepan of cold rain water to boil, allowing about two hours and a half after the water has simmered. When the peas are tender, drain them from the water, and rub them through a colander with a wooden spoon. Stir in the butter, and a little pepper and salt, and mix with eggs. Then tie it tightly in a cloth, boil it another hour, turn it out on a dish, and serve it very hot with boiled leg of pork. Porcupine Pudding. Time, one hour, and a half. 568. Half a pint of Patna rice ; half a pint of milk ; six eggs ; peel of one lemon ; a spoonful of ratafia flavouring ; sugar to your taste, and some sweet almonds. Boil the rice in the milk until very tender ; then add the eggs well beaten, the pounded sugar, the peel of a lemon grated, and a flavouring of ratafia, or essence of lemon. Mix all the ingredients well together, and boil them in a mould for an hour and a half. When done, turn it out, cut the almonds (after they have been blanched) into long shreds, and stick them all over the pudding. Serve it with a very rich custard poured over it. Potato Pudding. Time, to bake, half an hour. 569. Half a pound of potatoes ; half a pound of sugar ; half a pound of butter ; five eggs ; peel and juice of a lemon. Boil some mealy potatoes, and press them through a sieve. Then add to them the pounded sugar, the butter beaten to a cream, the peel of the lemon grated, and the juice, with five eggs well beaten. Mix all thoroughly together ; put (he pudding into a dish, and bake it in a quick oven. Plain Kice Pudding. Time, one hour. 570. Three eggs ; one quart of milk ; a little salt ; a wineglass of rice ; two table- spoonfuls of sugar; one of butter ; half a nutmeg. Beat three eggs light, and stir them into a quart of milk, with a little salt, and a wine- glass of rice well washed ; put to it two tablespoonfuls of sugar, half a nutmeg grated, and a tablespoonful of butter. Bake one hour in a quick oven. Rice and Tapioca Pudding. Time, four hours. 571. One teacupful of rice and tapioca ; half the quantity of loaf sugar; a little ground cinnamon. Put into a deep dish a teacupful of rice and tapioca mixed—rather more of the rice than the tapioca (do not wash or crack it), half the quantity of loaf sugar, and three pints of cold milk ; sprinkle a little ground cinnamon over the top, and bake it in a slow oven. Rice and Apple Pudding. 'l ime, ten minutes for rice ; pudding one hour. 572. One cupful of rice ; sue apples ; two cloves ; a little lemon perl ; two teaspoon- fuls of sugar. Boil the rice for ten minutes, drain it through a hair sieve until it is perfectly dry. Put a cloth into a pudding basin, lay the rice all round it like a crust. Quarter some apples as you would do for a tart, and lay them in the middle of the rice, add a little chopped lemon peel and two cloves, and two teaspoonfuls (or to your taste) of sugar, cover the apples with rice. Boil the pudding for an hour. Serve it with melted butter poured over it. Plain Boiled Rice for Children. Time, two hours. 573. Three-quarters of a pound of rice ; jam, or melted butter and sugar. Wash the rice in water, tie it in a cloth rather loosely, to give it room to swell, and put it into a saucepan of cold water. When done, turn it out on a dish, and serve with sweet sauce or jam. Ground Rice Pudding. Time, three-quarters of an hour 574. Half a pound of ground rici ; tvo quarts of milk ; three ounces of suga ; seven eggs ; a little nutmeg ; a glass of brandy ; and a small piece of but'er. Mix the rice in a little milk qute smoah, add it to the remainder of themik.and set it over the fire to boil till it become thick, Sir- ring it all the time, or it will be inlumps ; tien add the butter, sugar, and yolks of seven veil- beaten eggs, with the whites of four ; g-ate in a little nutmeg, and pour in the glass of brandy. Mix all well togethet and bate it in a quick oven for three-qiarters of an hour. Rice Pudding without Eggs. Time, two hom?. 575. A small cupful of rict; one quart of milk ; a cupful of sugar ; a teaspoonful of salt ; half a nutmeg. Wash the rice in two wders, and add it to the sweetened milk, the salt, and grated nutmeg. Put it into a piedish, and bake it in a moderate oven for tw) hours.