loo VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE PUREES, SALADS, AND SALAD MIXTURE. To Steam Potatoes. Time, twenty to forty minutes. 427. Pare the potatoes thin, and throw them into cold water for about five minutes; put them in the strainer over the saucepan tilled with boiling water, and let them steam from twenty to forty minutes, or until a fork goes through them easily. Take them up, and serve them quickly, or they will lose their colour. To Boil Potatoes. Time, eighteen to twenty minutes after the water boils ; large ones, half an hour. 428. Pare some potatoes as near the same size as possible, and throw them into cold water. Then put them into a saucepan, I cover them with cold water and a pinch of j salt. When the water boils, check it several times by throwing cold water in, as the slower they are boiled the better. When done, throw away the water, and sprinkle a little salt over them. Put them at the side of the fire to dry, with the lid of the sauce- pan off, and then serve them quickly on a napkin uncovered, or with the lid of the vegetable dish raised. To Boil Potatoes with their Skins on. Time, twenty to twenty-five minutes after the water boils ; three-quarters of an hour, or longer, if very large. 429. Choose the potatoes as nearly the same size as possible. Wash and scrub them thoroughly clean, put them into a saucepan, just cover them with water and a little salt. Bring them to boil, and then draw the saucepan to the side, and let them simmer slowly until tender and sufficiently done, which may be ascertained by trying them with a fork. Then drain the water from them, raise the lid, and let them dry by the side of the fire. Peel them carefully and quickly, and serve them in a very hot vegetable dish, with or without a napkin. To Mask Potatoes Time, half an hour, or three-quarters ot an hour if large. 430. Potatoes ; a piece of butter ; a little milk and salt. Old potatoes, when unfit for boiling, may be served mashed. Cut out all imperfections, take off all the skin, and lay them in cold water for a hour ; then put them into an iron saucepan with a teaspoonful of salt, cover them with wuter, and let them boil for half an hour, unless they are large, when three-quarters of an hour will be required. When done, drain the water thoroughly from them, put them into a wooden bowl or mortar, and mash them fine with a potato pestle. Melt a piece of butter the size of a large egg with a little milk ; mix it with the mashed potatoes until it is thoroughly in- corporated, and they are become a smooth mash, taking care the potatoes are not too wet. Then put the mash into a dish, smooth it neatly with a knife, and serve. Or it may be greatly improved by browning it in the oven, or in a dutch oven before the fire. Or you may rub them through a coarse sieve, and brown them with a salamander, with- out smoothing them over. To Boil New Potatoes. Time, a quarter to half an hour. 431. Rub the skins from new potatoes and lay them in cold water for an hour or two, then put them into an iron saucepan and cover them with water ; cover them over and let them boil for half an hour. Try one ; if not quite done, cover them for a few minutes longer. Then drain the water off, let them stand for a couple of minutes over the fire to dry, and send them to table plain; or you may pour a little melted butter over them. Baked Potatoes. Time, one hour. 432. Take as many large and equally sized potatoes as you wish, wash them per- fectly clean in two or three changes of water, then wipe them dry, and put them in a quick oven for one hour. Serve them on a napkin with cold butter, and pepper and salt separately. Fried Potatoes. Time, to fry, ten minutes. 433. Boil some potatoes in their skins ; when cold, peel them and cut them in slices a quarter of an inch thick, and fry them in butter, or beef dripping, a nice delicate brown. When done, take them out with a slice to drain any grease from them, and serve piled high on a dish ; or they may be chopped up small, seasoned with a little pepper and salt, and fried lightly in butter, turning them several times that they may be nicely browned. Serve in a covered dish.