i°4 To Boil and Slezu Vegetables. range on a dish, with white sauce poured over them. Vegetable Marrow Rissoles. Time, about half an hour. 455' One or two large vegetable marrows ; some well-seasoned minced beef ; and a little good gravy. Pare the marrows very thin, cut them across, take out the seeds, and fill the centre with well-seasoned minced beef or veal; if the latter, add a little minced lemon peel, tie them securely together, and stew them in a little good gravy made from the beef bones. Serve on a hot dish with the gravy poured round them. Parsnips Boiled. Time, one hour to one hour and a half; if small, half an hour to one hour. 456. A tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of water. If the parsnips are young they require only to be scraped before boiling ; old ones must be pared thin and cut into quarters. Put them into a stewpan of boiling salt and water, boil them quickly until tender, take them up, drain them, and serve in a vege- table dish. They are generally sent to table with boiled beef, pork, or salt cod, and also added as a garnish with boiled carrots. Parsnip Fritters. Time, one hour and a half to boil, if large ; if small, half an hour to one hour. 457. Four or five parsnips ; a teaspoonful of flour; one egg; some butter or beef dripping. Boil four or five parsnips until tender, take off the skins and mash them very fine, add to them a teaspoonful of flour, one egg well beaten, and a seasoning of salt. Make the mixture into small cakes with a spoon, and fry them on both sides a delicate brown in boiling butter or beef dripping. When both sides are done, serve them up very hot on a napkin, or hot dish, according to your taste. These resemble very much the salsify or oyster plant, and will generally be liked. Parsnips Boiled and Browned under Roast Beef. Time, half an hour to one hour ; one hour to one hour and a half, according to size. 458. Parsnips ; one large spoonful of salt to five pints of water ; pepper and salt. Wash and scrape the parsnips, and if very large cut them across. Put them into boil- ing salt and water, and boil them very quickly until tender. Take them up, drain them dry, and place them in the dripping pan under roast beef, dust over them a little pepper and salt, and let them brown nicely. Serve them in a separate dish, with a few as garnish round the meat. To Stew Onions Brown. Time, two hours. 4.59. Some Portugal onions; good beef gravy. Strip off the skin and trim the ends neatly, taking care not to cut the onions ; place them in a stewpan that will just hold them in one layer, cover them with some very good beef gravy, and let them stew very slowly for two hours, or until they are perfectly tender without breaking. The onions may be dredged lightly with flour, and fried a light colour before they are stewed, if preferred. ' To Serve Cele:y. 460. Wash the roots free from dirt, and cut off all the decayed leaves; preserve as much of the stalk as you can, removing any specks, or discoloured parts. Divide i lengthwise into quarters, curl the top leave;, and place it with the roots downwards in a celery glass nearly filled with cold water. Stewed Celery. Time, one hour and twenty minutes. 461. Four heads of celery ; half a pin. of veal gravy ; half a pint of water ; three or four tablespoonfuls of milk. Wash four heads of celery very clean, take off the dead leaves, and cut away any spots, or discoloured parts. Cut them into pieces about two or three inches long, and stew them for nearly half an hour. Then take them out with a slice, strain the water they were stewed in, and add it to half a pint of veal gravy, mixed with three or four tablespoonfuls of cream. Put in the pieces of celery, and let them stew for nearly an hour longer. Serve with the sauce poured over. To Dress Cucumbers. 462. Five tablespoonfuls of vinegar; three of salad oil ; pepper and salt. Pare the cucumbers, and commence cutting them at the thick end with a sharp knife, or a cucumber cutter. Shred them as thin as possible on a dish, sprinkle them with pepper and salt, and pour over them the above proportion of oil and vinegar. To Choose Mushrooms. 463. The greatest care is requisite in the choice of mushrooms, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous kinds of fungi. The eatable ones first appear very small