To Boil Vegetables. lor Dressed Potatoes—A Nice Supper Dish. Time, to roast, one hour. 434. Some of the largest potatoes ; one tablespoonful of cheese ; pepper and salt ; a little flour ; two ounces of fresh butter. Take some of the largest potatoes, roast them well, cut off the tops, and scoop out the inside completely. Rub this quite fine through a sieve, and add a tablespoonful of grated cheese, pepper, and salt. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the potato flour, and make it hot, fill the skins of the potatoes with it, put them into the oven, and serve them up quite hot. To Brown Potatoes under Meat. 435. Boil some fine large mealy potatoes, take off the skins carefully, and about an hour before the meat is cooked put them into the dripping-pan, having well dredged them with flour. Before serving, drain them from any grease, and serve them up hot. To Boil Green Peas. Time, twelve to fifteen minutes if young ; twenty to twenty-five minutes if large. 436. Half a peck of peas ; a knob of butter ; a sprig or two of mint; and a tea- spoonful of white sugar, if you like. Shell half a peck of green peas, and put them into a saucepan of boiling water with a teaspoonful of salt, and a sprig or two of mint, let them boil about half an hour with the pan closely covered. When tender, drain them through a colander, and put them in a dish with a bit of butter stirred into them, a very little pepper, and the sprigs of mint on the top. Serve them up very hot. To Boil Carrots. Time, twenty minutes; if large, one hour and a half to one hour and three-quarters. 437. When young and small, carrots need only be washed without scraping, and the skin wiped off if necessary after they are boiled. Put them into a stewpan with hot water to cover them and half a spoonful of salt. Let them boil fast for twenty minutes, then take them out, with a clean cloth rub off the skins, and put them whole into the dish. If old carrots, scrape the skins very clean, and wash them ; if large, cut them in slices, and boil them in plenty of soft water till they are tender. Put them in a dish and serve. Mashed Carrots (American). Time, to boil the carrots, one hour and a half to one hour and three-quarters. 438. Some carrots ; butter; pepper, and salt. Scrape off all the skin, wash them well, and boil them tender in a stewpan of boiling water. Then take them up with a skimmer, mash them smooth, add a piece of butter, and season with pepper and salt. Place them in the centre of a dish, piled up, and marked over with a knife. Serve with boiled or roast meat. To Boil Artichokes. Time, half an hour to three-quarters of an hour. 439. Two tablespoonfuls of salt, and a piece of soda the size of a sixpence to every gallon of water. Gather the artichokes two or three days before they are required for use. Cut off the stems, pull out the strings, and wash them in two or three waters that no insects may be in them. Have a large saucepan of boiling water with the above quantities of salt and soda. Put the artichokes with the tops downwards, and let them boil quickly until tender. About half an hour or three- quarters will boil them, but that can be ascertained by pulling out one of the leaves ; (if it comes out easily they are done) or by trying them with a fork. Take them out, and lay them upside down to drain. Serve them on a napkin, with a tureen of melted butter, allowing a teacupful to each arti- choke. They may also be served without a napkin on a hot dish, with white sauce poured over them. To Boil Jerusalem Artichokes. Time, twenty minutes. 440. To each gallon of water, two table- spoonfuls of salt. Wash the artichokes very clean, peel and cut them into a round, or oval form, and put them into a large saucepan of cold water, with the salt and water in the above proportions. They will take about twenty minutes from the time the water boils to be- come tender. When done, drain them, and serve them with a little white sauce, or melted butter poured over them. Or on a napkin, with melted butter in a separate tureen. To Boil Asparagus. Time, fifteen to eighteen minutes after the water boils. 441. One tablespoonful of salt to half a gallon of water. Scrape very clean all the white part of the stalks from the asparagus, and throw them into cold spring water, tie them up in bundles, cut the root ends even, and put them in a piece of muslin to preserve the tops. Have a wide stewpan of spring