How to Make Crust for Pies and Puddings. 95 wineglassful of very cold water ; a pinch of salt. Take care that the water you use is cold, especially in summer. Put the flour, well dried, into a large basin (which should be kept for the purpose) with a pinch of salt; break up the clarified beef dripping into pieces, and mix them well with the flour, rubbing both together till you have a fine powder. Then make a hole in the middle of the flour, and pour in water enough to make a smooth and flexible paste. Sprinkle the pasteboard with flour, and your hands also, take out the lump of paste, roll it out, fold it together again, and roll it out ; fold it again, and roll it out—i.e., roll it three times ; the last time it should be of the thickness required for your crust, that is, about a quarter of an inch, or even thinner. It is then ready for use. Or, a still Plainer Crust for Children. 401. One pound of flour; five or six ounces of clarified beef dripping ; and a cupful of water. Put the flour into a bowl, and work it into a smooth paste with about a cupful of water. Divide the clarified dripping into three parts, roll out the paste, and put over it, in rows, one portion of the dripping broken into pieces the size of a bean ; flour it, fold over the edges, and again roll it ; repeat this folding, spreading, and rolling three times, dredging a very little flour over the paste and rolling-pin each time. It will be fit for any common purpose, or for children. Common Puff Paste. 402. One pound of sifted flour ; a quarter of a pound of lard ; half a teaspoonful of salt; half a pound of butter. Put one pound of sifted flour on the slab, or in an earthen basin, make a hollow in the centre, work into it a quarter of a pound of lard and half a teaspoonful of salt. When it is mixed through the flour, add as much cold water as will bind it together, then strew a little flour over the pasteboard or table ; flour the rolling-pin, and roll out the paste to half an inch in thickness ; divide half a pound of butter in three parts ; spread one evenly over the paste, fold it up, dredge a little flour over it and the paste- slab or table; roll it out again, spread another portion of the butter over, and fold and roll again; so continue until all the butter is used ; roll it out to a quarter of an inch in thickness for use. Suet Crust for Puddings. 403. One pound of flour ; six ounces of beef suet; a cupful of cold water. Strip the skin from the suet, chop it as fine as possible, rub it well into the flour, mix it with a knife, work it to a very smooth paste with a cupful of water, and roll it out for use. Conger-Eel Pie. Time, to bake, rather more than one hour. 404. A piece of conger-eel; a quart of water ; a quarter of an onion ; a bunch of sweet herbs; pepper, salt, and spice; a sprig of parsley ; four sage-leaves ; fifteen oysters ; half a pound of puff paste. Cut a piece of a moderate-sized conger into pieces of convenient size, take out the bone, and put it on the fire with any odd bits of the fish there may be to spare, with a quart of water, a quarter of an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and a little spice, and let it simmer to make the gravy. Season the pieces of conger with pepper and salt, and roll them in parsley and sage minced fine. Arrange them in a pie-dish, pour in the gravy (which should be strong enough to jelly when cold), put the oysters on the top, and pour in their liquor, cover the pie with a good puff paste, and bake it in a moderate oven. Potato Pasty. Time, nearly two hours. 405. One pound and a half of rumpsteak ; a large cupful of stock or gravy ; a piece of butter the size of an egg ; pepper and salt to taste ; a few spoonfuls of milk ; some mashed potatoes. Cut about a pound and a half of rump- steak into thin slices, season it with pepper and salt to taste, lay it at the bottom of a Pedro-pan, and put small pieces of butter on the top, pour in a large cupful of stock or gravy, and put on the perforated plate. Mash some fine mealy potatoes with a few spoonfuls of milk, and fill up the whole space to the top of the tube of the pan, press the potato down, and mark it with a knife in any form you please. Bake it in a moderate oven a delicate colour. Send it to table with a folded napkin round it, and when served lift up the plate of potatoes. Plain Beefsteak Pie. Time, one hour and a half. 406. Two pounds and a half of beefsteak ; a little pepper, salt, and Cayenne ; a little water, or gravy if you have it ; one table- spoonful of Worcestershire sauce ; the yolk of one egg ; half a pound of paste. Cut the steak into small pieces with a very little fat, dip each piece into flour, place them in a pie-dish, seasoning each