To Roast Hares and Rabbits. 86 To Truss a Hare. 340. When wanted for dressing, cut off the fore legs at the first joint, raise the skin of the back and draw it over the hind legs. Leave the tail whole, and draw the skin over the back, and slip out the fore legs. Cut the skin from the neck and head, skin the ears and leave them on. Clean the vent, cut the sinews under the legs, bring them forward, run a skewer through one hind leg, through the body and the other hind leg. Do the same with the fore legs, lay the head rather back, put a skewer in the mouth, through the back of the head, and between the shoulders. Rinse the in- side, wipe it dry, rub it with a little pepper and salt, and fill it with the proper stuffing. Sew up the body and pass a string over it to secure the legs on the skewers. To Roast Hare. Time, one hour and a quarter to one hour and a half or two hours. 341. A fine hare ; some well-seasoned veal stuffing ; milk; butter, and brown gravy. After the hare is skinned and prepared, wipe it dry with a clean cloth, fill the belly with well-seasoned veal stuffing, and sew it up. Draw the fore and hind legs close to the body, and pass a long skewer through each. Tie a string round the body, from one skewer to the other, and secure it above the back. Fix the head between the shoul- ders with another skewer, and be careful to leave the ears on. Place it at some distance from the fire when first it is put down, and baste it well with milk for a short time, and afterwards with butter. Just before it is done, dredge over it a little flour, and baste it well with butter to make a fine froth. When done, take it up on a hot dish, re- move the skewers, and pour a little good gravy into the dish. Serve gravy in a tureen. Jugged Hare. Time, four hours. 342. A hare ; a small onion ; a lemon ; two glasses of port wine ; a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup ; one pound and a half of gravy beef; five cloves ; pepper ; salt, and a Kttle Cayenne ; butter and flour. Skin the hare, and cut it in pieces, but do not wash it ; dredge it with flour, and fry it a nice brown in butter, seasoning it with a little pepper, salt, and Cayenne. Make about a pint ard a half of gravy from the beef. Put the pieces of hare into a jar, add the onion stuck with four or five cloves, the lemon peeled and cut, and pour in the gravy. Cover the jar closely to keep in the steam, put it into a deep stewpan of cold water, and let it boil four hours, but if a young hare three hours will be sufficient. When done, take it out of the jar, and shake it over the fire for a few minutes, adding a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, two glasses of port wine, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, with some fried forcemeat balls. Serve with red currant jelly. Hashed Hare. Time, rather more than an hour. • 343. Cold roast hare ; three dessert- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup ; four des- sertspoonfuls of port wine; a bunch of savoury herbs; a little pepper, salt, and mace ; butter and flour. Take the remains of a cold roast hare, and cut the best parts into slices. Put the trimmings, head, and bones into a stewpan to make the gravy, pour in a pint of water, add the herbs and spice, with pepper and salt to your taste. Stew it gently for an hour, and then strain it through a sieve. Add a piece of butter rolled in flour, the ketchup, and wine, with a few forcemeat balls, or any stuffing left from the previous day. Put in the slices of hare, and set it over the fire until vety hot. Serve it up with toasted sippets and currant jelly. To Roast a Leveret. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 344. Leveret; half a pound of butter. Clean and truss a leveret in the same manner as a hare, but roast it plain without any stuffing. Place it before a clear bright fire for about three-quarters of an hour, and baste it often with butter. About ten minutes before serving, dredge it lightly with flour to froth it nicely. Serve with gravy poured round it, and red currant jelly with it. To Truss Roast Rabbits. 345. Empty, skin, wash, and soak the rabbit ; stuff it with veal forcemeat ; skewer back the head between the shoulders ; cut off the fore joints of the legs and shoulders, draw them close to the body, and pass a skewer through them. Roast Rabbit. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 346. One large rabbit ; pepper; salt; nutmeg ; half a pound of butter ; four des- sertspoonfuls of milk; one tablespoonful of flour ; yolks of two eggs ; brown gravy ; the peel of half a lemon grated. Procure a fine large rabbit, and truss it in the same manner as a hare ; fill the paunch with veal stuffing, and roast it before a bright clear fire for three-quarters of tin