J44 Cookery for the Sick. the fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring it constantly. Then strain it, and add sugar to taste. Silver Jelly. Tittle, to boil the feet five hours and a half; to boil the jelly twenty minutes. 728. One set of calf’s feet ; one ounce of isinglass ; one pint of the best gin ; one pound of loaf sugar ; juice of six lemons ; peel of two ; whites of six eggs. Boil the calf's feet in four quarts of water with the isinglass until the feet are done to rags, and the water wasted to half the quantity; strain it, and when cold remove the feet, and the jelly from the sediment very carefully. Put the jelly into a stew- pan with the sugar, the juice of the lemons, and the peel of two ; add the gin. When the flavour is thoroughly drawn from the lemon peel, put in the whites of the eggs well beaten, and their shells broken up, place the stewpan over the fire, and let it boil for twenty minutes ; but do not stir it after the egg has been added. Dip a jelly bag into hot water and squeeze it dry ; run the jelly through it several times until quite clear, and then pour it into the mould. If calfs feet cannot be obtained, two ounces of gelatine and one ounce of isinglass will do as well. Barley Gruel. Time, twenty minutes. 729. Two ounces of pearl barley ; half a pint of water ; then three pints and a half of boiling water. Boil two ounces of pearl barley in half a pint of water to extract the colouring matter, throw this away, and put the barley into three pints and a half of boiling water, and let it boil till it is one half the quantity, then strain it for use. Barley Water. Time, twenty minutes. 730. Two ounces of pearl barley; one lemon ; sugar to taste. First boil the barley in some water to ex- tract the colouring, throw that water away, and put the barley into a jug ; pour some boiling water over it, and let it stand for a short time. Peel a lemon very thin, pour some boiling water over it, wi th a little sugar, and mix it with the barley water, adding the lemon juice. Artificial Ass’s Milk. Time, two hours or more, according to the strength of the fire. 731. Two ounces of pearl barley; two quarts of water ; half an ounce of harts- horn shavings ; one ounce of candied eringo root. Boil two ounces of pearl barley in two pints of water for a few minutes; strain it from this first water, and put the same quantity to it again ; add half an ounce of hartshorn shavings, and one ounce of candied eringo root. Boil it gently until half the liquor is consumed or boiled away. Then strain jt for use: Equal parts of this decoction and cow's milk to be used together, and taken in the same quantities, and at the same time That'the real ass’s milk would be drunk. • Tonic Drink. Time, twenty-four hours. • 732. A quarter of an ounce of camomile flowers ; a quarter of an ounce of sliced gentian root ; a quarter of an ounce of • bruised columba ; a quarter of an ounce of dried orange peel; fifty cloves bruised; a pint and a quarter of cold spring water. Put these ingredients into a jug, and pour on them rather more than a pint of cold spring water ; let it stand twenty-four hours, then pour off the clear liquor. Take three tablespoonfuls for a dose, fasting everymorn- ing. Beaten Egg. 733. One egg ; one wineglass of sherry or one cup of tea ; sugar to taste. An egg beaten up in tea or wine will be found very strengthening for invalids. It is better to take the yolk only, as itjs lighter. Egg Wine. 734. One egg ; one glass of white wine ; a little cold water, with sugar to taste. Well beat a nice new-laid egg with a little water, and then pour over it a glass of white wine made very hot with half a tumbler of water and a little pounded sugar. Stir it all the time until well mixed together. Then set it over the fire until it thickens and is very hot without coming to a boil. It must be stirred one way all the time, and when done, poured into a glass and served with a slice of toasted bread cut into long thin slices, and placed on a plate crossed over each other. A little grated nutmeg may be added if the flavour is liked. Sago Gruel. Time, two hours and a quarter. 735. One ounce of sago ; one pint of water; one glass of sherry; sugar and ginger ; lemon juice or nutmeg to taste. Stand the sago in a pint of water on the hob to soften for two hours. Boil it for a quarter of an hour, keeping it well stirred.