35 Eggs for Breakfast. according to the size yon make them. Rub them once while hot with a paste brush dipped in milk. Fadge. Time, one hour. 21. Four ounces of brown meal (half rye, half brown flour); two ounces of butter ; a saltspoonful of salt; a quarter of a pint of milk. Take four ounces of brown meal, mixed of half rye, half brown flour, two ounces of butter, and a little salt; make it into a stiff paste with milk, and bake it for one hour on a gridle over the fire, turning it often. It will not do to bake it in the oven. If baked too long it gets like pie-crust. Sir Tatton Sykes’ Water Cakes. Time, fifteen minutes. 22. One pound of flour ; a piece of butter the size of a nut; a quarter of a pint of cold water ; one pinch of salt. To Boil Eggs for Breakfast. Time, three minutes, or very soft, two minutes and a half. 23. Fill a pint saucepan with water, set it over the fire and let it boil. Then, as it boils, put in with a spoon two or three fresh eggs. Take care not to crack the shells, or to boil them too fast. Serve them in egg- cups on a stand. N.B.—Do not use a fresh egg till it has been laid ten hours. The albumen, or white, wiil not be set before that time has elapsed. Poached Eggs. Time, two minutes. 24. One pint of water ; one tablespoonful of vinegar; one saltspoonful of salt ; as many eggs as required. Put the vinegar and salt into the water, let it boil, then break the eggs carefully into it, let them boil gently three minutes. Take them out with a slice, let them drain, and put them on a slice or round of thin but- tered toast. If the yolk separates from the white, the egg is not fresh. The egg may also be done in a regular egg-poacher. Eggs and Bacon. Time, three to four minutes. 25. Six eggs; a quarter of a pound of dripping or butter ; some slices of ham or bacon. Break five or six fresh eggs into cups, and slip them into a delicately clean frying-pan of boiling dripping or butter. When the whites are set, take them up with a slice, trim off the rough edges, and drain them from the grease. Then place them in the centre of the dish, and the slices of fried bacon round the edge, or the eggs may be served on the bacon, whichever you prefer. Eggs a la Bonne Femme. Time, ten minutes. 26. Three eggs; two or three slices of beetroot; a slice or two of cold chicken, or any cold meat; three heads of coss lettuce. Boil three fresh eggs for ten minutes, roll them to break their shells on the table; shell them, cut them in halves, and just cut off the point of the white so that they may stand well. Take out the yolks and fill the white cups thus : two with beetroot (already boiled) cut into tiny dice ; two with cold chicken or meat cut into dice ; two with tiny dice of the yolks, piled up in them. Cut up some coss lettuce very nicely ; lay it on the dish, and place the eggs on it. Brawn. Oxford brawn is considered the best to purchase. The following recipe will be found excellent for family use. Brawn. Time, three nights; six hours to boil, three hours to get cold. 27. Pickled porker's head ; two tongues ; two feet, and two extra ears; four dried sausages; some slices of boiled ox tongue ; dried sage, pepper and salt, one teaspoonful of each for seasoning ; three tablespoonfuls of salt to cover the head. Cut the porker's head in half, and soak one night; cover it with salt for one night, boil slowly six hours. Let it get cold. Take out the bones. Boil the two tongues, feet, and ears one hour and a half; remove the bones and gristle. Cut all the meat into small pieces ; season with sage, peppier, and salt, well mixed. Cut the sausages into slices. Place slices of ox tongue, which should be of a nice red colour, in a pattern round the mould or tin ; put in the meat, and press it firmly down with a weight on the top. Let it stand one night. The tongues may be put in whole, if preferred, about the middle of the mould. Birds’ Nests. Time, fifteen minutes, ten minutes to boil the eggs. 28. Four eggs ; half a pint of rich brown gravy ; a quarter of a pound of forcemeat —for which you will require about one ounce of beef suet, chopped very fine; one ounce of bread-crumbs ; half an ounce of chopped parsley; powdered thyme and marjoram ; a little grated rind of a lemon and half its juice.; one egg to bind it.