54 Scotch Mutton Broth—Ox-head and Ox-tail Soups. Scotch Mutton Broth. Time, three hours and a half. 136. Six pounds of neck of mutton ; three quarts of water ; five carrots ; five turnips ; two onions ; four tablespoonfuls of Scotch barley ; and a little salt. Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour, cut off the scrag, and put it into a stewpan with three quarts of water. As soon as it boils skim it well, and then simmer it for an hour and a half. Cut the best end of the mutton into cutlets, dividing it with two bones in each. Take off nearly all the fat before you put it into the broth ; skim it the moment the meat boils, and every ten minutes afterwards ; add five carrots, five turnips, and two onions, all cut into two or three pieces ; and put them into the soup soon enough to be thoroughly done ; stir in four tablespoonfuls of Scotch barley well washed in cold water; add salt to your taste ; and let alt stew together for three hours ; about half an hour before sending to table put in a little chopped parsley, and serve all together. Ox-Head Soup. Time, four or five hours. 137. One ox-head ; one head of celery ; two carrots ; two onions ; one turnip ; thirty black pepper corns ; twenty-five of allspice ; a teaspooriful of salt; a bunch of sweet herbs ; a bay-leaf; a little browning ; a glass of white wine; and five quarts of water. After the head has been soaked for two or three hours, the bones must be broken, and the whole well washed in warm water ; then put it into a stewpan with five quarts of cold water, cover it closely over, and as it boils, which should be slowly, skim it well. Put in a head of celery cut into pieces, two carrots, two onions, one turnip, the pepper corns, and allspice, with a bunch of sweet herbs. Cover it over, and set the pan over a slow fire, taking care to remove the scum, and let it stew gently for three hours, or until reduced to four quarts. Take out the head and put it on a dish. Strain the soup through a fine sieve, and set it by to cool. The next day cut the meat from the head into small pieces, drain off the liquor, and after removing the fat, put it with the meat into a stewpan, and let it simmer gently for half an hour, when it will be ready to serve. The oftener this soup is warmed the richer it becomes. Before sending it to table add a glass of white wine. Ox-Tail Soup. Time, four hours and a half. 138. Two ox-tails ; a quarter of a pound of lean ham ; a head and a half of celery ; two carrots ; two turnips ; two onions ; a bunch of savoury herbs ; five cloves ; a tea- spoonful of pepper corns ; one bay-leaf ; a wineglass of ketchup, and one of port wine, with three quarts of water. Cut up two ox-tails, separating them at the joints ; put them into a stewpan with about an ounce and a half of butter, a head of celery, two onions, two turnips, and two carrots cut into slices, and a quarter of a pound of lean ham cut very thin ; the pepper corns and savoury herbs, and about half a pint of cold water. Stir it over a quick fire for a short time to extract the flavour of the herbs, or until the pan is covered with a glaze. Then pour in three quarts of water, skim it well, and simmer slowly for four hours, or until the tails are tender. Take them out, strain the soup, stir in a little flour to thicken it, add a glass of port wine, the ketchup, and half a head of celery (previously boiled and cut into small pieces). Put the pieces of tail into the stewpan with the strained soup. Boil it up for a few minutes, and serve. This soup can be served clear, by omit- ting the flour and adding to it carrots and turnips cut into fancy shapes, with a head of celery in slices. These may be boiled in a little of the soup, and put into the tureen before sending it to table. Cheap White Soup. Time, one hour. 139. Remains of cold veal, game, poultry, or rabbit; one quart of stock made of bones. Chop up any remains you may have of cold veal, chicken, game, or rabbit roasted dry. Grate them, beat them in a mortar, and rub them through a tammy or sieve. Then add to the panada a quart of stock, put it into a stewpan, and pay great atten- tion to skimming it. An Economical White Soup. Time, fourteen hours and a half. 140. A knuckle of veal; one slice of lean ham ; two onions ; a bunch of thyme ; a few cloves ; half a blade of mace ; four ounces of pounded almonds ; half a pint of cream or milk; one egg; water in pro- portion to the meat. Take a knuckle of veal, separate it into several pieces, and put it into a stewpan with a slice of lean ham, two onions, a bunch of thyme, a few cloves, and half a blade of mace. Pour in sufficient water for the quantity of soup required, and let it stew for twelve or fourteen hours, until the stock is as rich as the ingredients can make