8-t Boiled and Stewed Fowls. Draw and truss a fowl for roasting;, put into the inside two or three tablespoonfuls of fine bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and a piece of butter the size of a large walnut. Put the fowl down before a clear fire to roast, basting it well with butter ; and just before it • is done dredge over it a little flour, and baste it with butter to give it a frothy appearance. When done, add a little warm water to the butter in the dripping-pan, or add a little very thin melted butter, and strain it over the fowl. Serve with bread sauce in a tureen, or a little made gravy if preferred. To Truss Boiled Fowls, 327. For boiling, choose fowls that are not black legged. Pick and singe the fowl; cut off the neck close to the back ; take out the crop, and with the middle finger loosen the liver and other parts ; cut off the vent, draw it clean, and beat the breastbone flat with a rolling- pin. Cut off the nails of the feet and tuck them down close to the legs. Put your finger into the inside and raise the skin of the fowl, then cut a hole in the top of the skin, and put the legs under. Put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion and bring the middle of the leg close to it; put the skewer through the middle of the leg and through the body; do the same on the other side ; open the gizzard, remove the contents, and wash well, remove the gall bladder from the liver. Put the gizzard and liver in the pinions, turn the points of the pinions on the back, and tie a string over the tops of the legs to keep them in their proper places. To Boil Fowls or Chickens. Time, one hour for a large fowl ; three- quarters of an hour for a medium size ; half an hour for a chicken. 328. After the fowls or chickens are trussed for boiling, fold them in a nice white floured cloth and put them into a stewpan ; cover them well with hot water, bring it gradually to a boil, and skim it very carefully as the scum rises ; then let them simmer as slowly as possible, which will improve their appearance more than fast boiling, causing them to be whiter and plumper. When done, put them on a hot dish, remove the skewers, and pour over them a little parsley and butter, oyster, lemon, celery, or white sauce, serving the sauce also separately in a tureen. Boiled tongue, ham, or bacon is usually served to cat with them. To Stew a Fowl with Rice, Time, one hour and a half. 329. A fowl; about a quart of mutlort broth ; pepper ; salt ; mace ; a large cupful of rice. Truss the fowl foi* boiling, and stew it in about a quart of mutton broth, seasoned with a little pepper, salt, and half a blade of mace, for an hour and a half, skimming it often. About half an hour before the fowl is ready to serve, add a large cupful of rice, and when tender, strain the broth from if, and place the rice on a sieve to dry and swell before the fire, keeping the fowl hot ; then place it in the centre of a hot dish with the rice arranged in rather a high border round it. Serve parsley and butter sauce in a tureen. Grilled Fowl. Time, a quarter of an hour to broil. 330. The remains of cold fowls ; juice of half a lemon ; pepper and salt ; bread- crumbs ; clarified butter; grated lemon peel. Cut the remains of cold fowl into pieces, season them with pepper and salt, squeeze over them the juice of half a lemon, and let them stand for three-quarters of an hour ; wipe them dry, dip them into clarified butter, and then into bread-crumbs with a little lemon peel grated. Put them on a gridiron and broil them over a clear fire. When fried instead of broiled, use the yolk of egg well beaten instead of the clarified butter. To Truss Pigeons. 331. A pigeon requires a great deal of care in cleaning. Wash it thoroughly and wipe it very dry before putting it to the fire. Pigeons should not be kept, or they will lose their flavour. Draw them directly they are killed ; cut off the head and neck ; truss the wings over the back, and cut off the toes at the first joint. To Roast Pigeons. Time, twenty minutes to half an hour. 332. Some pigeons; half a pound of butter ; pepper and salt. Well wash and thoroughly clean the pigeons; wipe them dry, season them inside with pepper and salt, and put a good- sized piece of butter into the body of each bird. Roast them before a clear bright fire, basting them well the whole of the time. Serve them with gravy, and bread sauce. Or send up a tureen of parsley and butter, in which case the birds must be garnished with fried parsley ; but for very plain cook- ing, they can have a little water added to