129 SiOeet Dishes. juice ; three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar ; ten ounces of isinglass ; the peel of one small lemon: Pare, core, and boil two dozen and a half of pippins in a pint and a half of water with the peel of a small lemon. When they are tender, pour the juice from the pippins, and strain it through a jelly bag; then put to the strained juice the sugar pounded, and the isinglass, boiled till dissolved in half a pint of water. Boil the whole in a very clean stewpan for about fifteen minutes, and then pour it into moulds. Riband Jelly—or Jelly of Two Colours. Time, three-quarters of an hour to make the jelly. 629. One quart of calf’s feet jelly ; a few drops of prepared cochineal. Have ready a quart of calf's feet jelly, flavoured in any way that may be preferred, leaving one pint of a pale colour, and adding a few drops of prepared cochineal to colour the remainder a bright red. Pour a small quantity of the red into a mould previously soaked in cold water. Let this set; then pour in a small quantity of the pale jelly, and repeat this until the mould is full, taking care that each layer is perfectly firm before pouring it on the other. .Put it in a cold place, and the next day turn it out; or the mould may be partly filled with the yellow jelly, and when thoroughly set, filled up with the pink. Riband jelly and jelly of two colours can be made in any pretty fancy mould ; there are many to be had for the purpose. Of course one colour must be always firm before the other is put in. In order to hasten the operation it is best to ice the jelly each time, by placing the mould in an ice-pail. Oranges Filled with Jelly. 630. Some large China oranges, and some jelly of two colours. With the point of a small knife cut out from the top of each orange a round about the size of a shilling ; then, with the small end of a teaspoon, empty the pulp from them, taking care not to break the rinds. Throw them into cold water. Make jelly of the juice pressed from the pulp, and strained quite clear. Colour one half a bright rose colour with prepared cochineal, leaving the other very pale. When the jelly is nearly cold, drain and wipe the oranges, and fill them with alternate stripes of the different coloured jelly. Each colour being allowed to get quite cold before the other is poured in. When they are perfectly cold, cut them into quarters with a very sharp knife, and arrange them tastefully on a dish, with sprigs of myrtle between them. Gateau de Pommes. Time, three-quarters of an hour, 631. One pound of sugar ; one pint of water ; two pounds of apples; juice and peel of one large lemon ; some rich custard. Boil one pound of sugar in a pint of water until the water has evaporated, then add two pounds of apples pared and cored, the juice of a large lemon, and the peel grated. Boil all together till quite stiffs then put it into a mould, and when cold turn it out, and serve it with rich custard round it. Gooseberry Fool. 632. Two quarts of gooseberries; one quart of water ; sugar to taste ; two quarts of new milk ; yolks of four eggs ; a little grated nutmeg. Put two quarts of gooseberries into a stewpan with a quart of water ; when they begin to turn yellow and swell, drain the water from them and press them with the back of a spoon through a colander, sweeten them to your taste, and set them to cool. Put two quarts of milk over the fire beaten up with the yolks of four eggs, and a little grated nutmeg ; stir it over the fire until it begins to simmer, then take it off, and stir it gradually into the cold goose- berries, let it stand until cold, and serve it. The eggs may be left out and milk only may be used. Half this quantity makes a good dishful. Rice Snow Balls. Time, twenty minutes to boil the rice. 633. A quarter of a pound of Carolina rice ; one pint and a half of new milk ; two ounces of loaf sugar ; two ounces of sweet almonds ; and some preserve or marmalade. Put a quarter of a pound of rice into a stewpan with a pint and a half of new milk, two ounces of pounded sugar and two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and minced fine, and boil it until the rice is tender. Dip some small cups into cold water, fill them with the rice, and set them to become cold ; turn them out on a dish, arrange a border of preserve or marmalade all round them, and pour a little rich cream into the centre, if you have it. Frosted Pippins. Time, half an hour. 634. Twelve large pippins; whites of three eggs ; lemon peel ; pounded sugar. Divide twelve pippins, take out the cores, and place them close together on a tin, with K