Kitchen Utensils. I 2 \ KITCHEN UTENSILS. The young and inexperienced house- keeper will, we believe, be glad of some guidance in the selection of the utensils needed in her kitchen, so that she may not be at the mercy of those who desire more than is really required, or who are ignorant of the necessity and use of many articles of the first importance in the art. With a view to helping our readers to decide in this mat- Kitchen Utensils absolutely ter for themselves, we offer them here three lists of the articles absolutely essential in the kitchen. The first list is for a first-rate kitchen, the second for a medium one, the third for a cottage home. Of course any one of the three lists may be added to, as required ; but they will be a guide in the matter as they now stand. required by a good Cook. Set of 6 wrought-iron sauce- pans. i wrought-iron stock-pot. i Bain-marie pan. i wrought-iron teakettle, i oval boiler. i digester, i saucepan di- gester, i stewpan di- gester. 6 enamelled stew-pans, i Sautd pan, i French do. i potato steamer, i salamander and stand, i oval frying-pan. i round do. i fluted gridiron, i bachelor's frying-pan. i omelet pan. i omelet souftH pan. i braising pan. i preserving pan and spoon, i flour dredger, i sugar do. i brass bottle-jack, i dripping pan and stand, i basting ladle, i wooden meat screen, i coffee mill, i meat chopper. The i teakettle, i toasting fork, i bread grater, i wooden meat screen and bottle-jack. i dripping pan and stand, i meat chopper, x colander. 3 block-tin saucepans. S iron saucepans. i do. and steamer, i large boiling pot. 4 enamelled stewpans. x butter saucepan, Meat saw. 1 colander. Pestle and mortar. 2 gravy strainers. 1 bread grater. 2 sets of skewers, i fish slice. i egg slice and ladle, r pair of steak tongs, i egg whisk, i beef fork, i French cook's knife, i steak beater. Fish kettle. Mackerel saucepan. Turbot kettle. Salmon and jack kettle, i pair of fish scissors. Double hanging gridiron. Sliding toaster and trivet. Toasting fork. Carson's patent salting ap- paratus. • Kent's patent soup strainer. Mincing machine. Weighing machine. Spice box. Herb stand. Box of paste cutters. 12 patty pans. 3 tart pans. 3 Dariol moulds. Marble slab for making paste. Rolling pin—American, with revolving handle, i Paste jigger. " Piston " Freezing Ma- chine. 1 cheese toaster. 3 larding pins. 2 cook’s knives. i mushroom mould, i star fritter mould, i scroll fritter mould, i vegetable cutter, or “ the French Vegetable cutter.” 1 vegetable mould. 3 pudding moulds. 6 jelly moulds. 3 cake moulds. 2 wooden spoons and mashed potato fork. Ice closet. Sugar spinners. Sugar moulds. 2 jelly do. i rolling pin. i paste board. 1 paste jigger. 12 pattv pans. 2 tart pans. i pan for Yorkshire pud- ding. Warren's Everybody's Cook- ing pot. Warren's Everybody's curry pot. i spice box, cost of the above would be 38/. 10s. Medium Set. 1 stock pot. 1 fish and egg slice. 2 fish kettles. 1 flour dredge, and pepper and salt do. 2 frying-pans. 1 omelet pan. 1 double hanging grid- iron. 1 salamander. 2 sets of skewers. 1 pair of steak tongs. 1 box of larding pins. 2 pudding moulds. The cost of the above would be 101. 15J.