146 Useful Receipts. and the dust may be blown off by bellows. By the above method, curtains may be kept sufficiently clean to make up again with new linings. To Remove Paint Stains from Glass Windows. 746. It frequently happens that painters splash the plate or other glass windows when they are painting the sills. When this is the case, melt some soda in very hot water and wash them with it, using a soft flannel. It will entirely remove the paint. Table Polish. 747. Half a pint of spirits of wine ; an ounce and a half of gum shellac; half an ounce of gum benzoin ; half an ounce of gum sandrac. Put the whole in a bottle for a day or two, and shake it a few times. When the gums are dissolved it is fit for use. When the polish is laid on thick enough, take a clean wad and cloth ; put a little clean spirits of wine on the wad, the same as you did with the polish, rub it the same way, but very lightly, and until quite dry. You must then put a little oil on the cloth, and rub as in laying on the polish. To Wash Coloured Prints and Washing Silks. 748. Put a little bran into lukewarm water, wash quickly through ; rinse in cold water also, quickly. Hang to dry in a room without fire or sunshine. Iron on wrong side \yith a coolish iron. No soap to be used.* To Clean an Old Silk Dress. 749. Unpick the dress, and brush it with a velvet brush. Then grate two large potatoes into a quart of water ; let it stand to settle; strain it off quite clear, and sponge the dress with it. Iron it on the wrong side, as the ironed side will be shiny. Wash for the Hair. 750. Half an ounce of glycerine ; half an ounce of spirit of rosemary ; five ounces of water. To be well mixed together and shaken, and used night and morning Castor Oil Pomade for the Hair. 751. Four ounces of castor oil; two ounces of prepared lard ; two drachms of white wax ; essence of jessamine, or otto of rose. Melt the fat together, and when well mixed, and becoming cool, add whatever scent you prefer, and stir it constantly until cold; then put it into pots or bottles for use. ' Cold Cream. 752. Half a pint of rosewater; four ounces of oil of almonds ; three drachms of white wax ; three drachms of spermaceti. Melt the white wax and spermaceti together with the oil of almonds. Then beat them all up, adding the rosewater slowly until it is cold. Put it in a pot, and pour some rosewater on the top. A Winter Soap for Chapped or Rough Hands. 753. Three pounds of common yellow soap ; one ounce of camphor dissolved in one ounce of rose and one ounce of lavender water. Beat three pounds of common yellow soap, and one ounce of camphor dissolved in one ounce of rose and one ounce of lavender water in a mortar until it becomes a paste. Make it into balls to dry, and set it in a cool place for the winter. The best time to make it is in the spring. Tooth Powder. 754. A quarter of an ounce of bole armoniac ; a quarter of an ounce of bark ; a quarter of an ounce of powdered cam- phor ; a quarter of an ounce of powdered myrrh. Mix the ingredients very thoroughly together. Tooth powders should be kept closely covered in wooden boxes. The prescription is for equal quantities of the above ingredients, but one ounce of the whole mixed is enough at a time, unless a chemist is not of easy access. Lavender Water. 755. Half a pint of spirits of wine ; a quarter of an ounce of oil of lavender ; one drachm and a half of essence of bergamot; one drachm of essence of ambergris. All to be well mixed together. Odor Delectabilis—For the Toilet. 736. Two ounces of rosewater; two ounces of orange-flower ; half a drachm of oil of lavender; half a drachm of oil of cloves ; one grain of musk ; one drachm of bergamot; half a drachm of essence of musk ; half a pint of rectified spirits of wine. Mix all together, excepting the essence of musk, which must be added after the mixture has stood for one week closely stopped.