Second Course Dishes. 13 r the paper containing the meringues on a piece of hard wood, and put them into a quick oven ; do not close it. Watch them ; and when they begin to have a yellow appearance take them out; remove the paper carefully from the wood, and let them cool for two or three minutes ; then slip a thin-bladed knife very carefully under one, turn it into your left hand, take another from the paper in the same way, and join the two sides which were next the paper to- gether. The soft inside may be taken out with the handle of a small spoon, the shells filled with jam, jelly, or cream, and then joined together as above, cementing them together with some of the mixture. Rice Meringue. Time, twenty minutes. 641. One teacupful of rice ; half a pint of milk ; three eggs; one teaspoonful of moist sugar; apricot or any other jam; two teaspoonfuls of loaf sugar. Put a teacupful of rice into half a pint of milk, and stand it at the side of the fire to simmer until quite soft. Then add the yolks of three beaten eggs to the rice in the stewpan, and beat the whole up with a tea- spoonful of fine moist sugar. Then turn it out into the tin that it is to be baked in, piling it up high in the centre, and spread a thick layer of apricot or any other jam over it. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a firm froth with a teaspoonful of powdered loaf sugar, spread it all over the jam, and sprinkle loaf sugar on the top of it, then drop a little of the froth about it in different shapes. Put it into the oven for about twenty minutes, taking care to leave the oven door open. Raspberry, strawberry, or currant jam may be used. Curd for Cheesecakes—Yorkshire Receipt. Time, till it curds. 642. One quart of water ; two eggs ; one quart of new milk ; two spoonfuls of lemon juice or good vinegar. Boil the water in a stewpan. Beat two eggs and mix them with a quart of new milk; add them to the water with two spoonfuls of lemon juice or good vinegar. When the curd rises lay it on a sieve to drain. Cheesecakes. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 643. Half a pint of good curd; four eggs ; three spoonfuls of rich cream ; a quarter of a nutmeg; one spoonful of ratafia ; a quarter of a pound of currants ; puff paste. Beat half a pint of good curd with four eggs, three spoonfuls of rich cream, a quarter of a nutmeg grated, a spoonful of ratafia, and a quarter of a pound of currants washed and dried. Mix all well together, and bake in patty-pans lined with a good puff paste. Lemon Cheesecakes. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 644. A quarter of a pound of warmed butter ; peel of two lemons, juice of one ; a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar; a few almonds; puff paste. Just warm the butter ; stir into it the sugar pounded fine, and when dissolved, mix with it the peel of two lemons grated, and the juice of one strained. Mix all well together, and pour it into patty-pans lined with puff paste. Put a few blanched almonds on the top of each. SECOND COURSE DISHES, RELISHES, &e. Macaroni as usually served. Time, to boil the macaroni, half an hour ; to brown it, six or seven minutes. 645. Half a pound of pipe macaroni; seven ounces of Parmesan or Cheshire cheese ; four ounces of butter; one pint of new milk ; one quart of water and some bread-crumbs ; a pinch of salt. Flavour the milk and water with a pinch of salt, set it over the fire, and when boiling, drop in the macaroni. When tender, drain it from the milk and water, put it into a deep dish, sprinkle some of the grated cheese amongst it, with part of the butter broken into small pieces, place a layer of grated cheese over the top, and cover the whole with fine bread-crumbs, pouring the remainder of the butter lightly warmed over the crumbs. Brown the top of the maca- roni with a salamander, or before the fire, turning it several times that it may be nicely browned. Serve it quickly, and as hot as possible. Admiral Ross’s Indian Devil Mixture. 646. Four tablespoonfuls of cold gravy ; one of Chutney paste ; one of ketchup ; one of vinegar; two teaspoonfuls of made K 2