57 Vegetable Soaps. beef; one pound and a quarter of mealy potatoes ; three-quarters of a pint of peas ; pepper and salt; a large cupful of rice ; two heads of celery. Take a pound and a quarter from a shin, or any other part of gravy beef, and make cuts in it with a knife so that the gravy may be extracted easily; then put it into the stew- pan with about three quarts of water. Chop a pound and a quarter of potatoes up fine, and add them with the green peas and the rice to the liquor. Let it all simmer for two hours and a half ; then take out the meat, strain off the liquor, and rub the peas, potatoes, and rice through a sieve. Cut two heads of celery into thin pieces about an inch and a half long, and put them into the soup ; add the pulped vegetables, pepper and salt to your taste, and stew it for another half hour, or until the celery is quite tender. When done, serve it with toasted bread cut into small pieces, and put into the tureen. Palestine Soup. Time, one hour and a half. 154. Six pounds of Jerusalem artichokes ; three turnips; one head of celery; one onion ; half a pint of cream or milk ; a lump of sugar; salt and Cayenne to taste ; sufficient white stock to cover the artichokes. Pare and cut into pieces six pounds of Jerusalem artichokes, three turnips, one onion, and a head of celery ; put them into a stewpan with sufficient white stock to cover them, and let them boil gently for an hour until they are quite tender ; then rub them through a sieve ; if the purie be too thick, thin it with a little fresh milk ; boil all together again ; add half a pint of good cream, or milk, and season it with aspoonful of sugar, pepper, salt, and Cayenne to your taste. Send it up very hot with some fried bread served separately, cut into very small dice. Jardiniere Soup—a Summer Soup. Time, one hour and a half. 155. Two quarts of clear stock seasoned to taste ; four small carrots ; four small tur- nips ; equal quantity of button onions ; a head of celery ; eight lettuce leaves ; a little tarragon and chervil ; one lump of sugar. Cut the vegetables in the French vegetable cutter of any pattern you please, or shape them with the ordinary vegetable scoop as you like best in the form of peas, olives, &c.; add the leaves and onions, put them in a soup-kettle, fill it up with two quarts (or more as required) of clear stock, let it boil gently till the vegetables are done, add a lump of sugar, as is best in all vegetable soups, and serve this soup very hot. Julienne Soup. Time, one hour and a half. 156. Three quarters of a pound of carrots, turnips, celery, onions, and leeks ; one large cabbage-lettuce ; a little sorrel and chervil ; two ounces of butter ; two lumps of sugar ; five pints of clear soup, or medium stock. Weigh three-quarters of a pound of the above-named vegetables, and cut them into strips of about an inch and a half long, taking care they are all the same size ; wash them in cold water, and drain them very dry ; then put them into a stewpan with the butter, and the sugar pounded. Set it over a quick fire for a few minutes, tossing them over frequently until they are covered with a thin glaze, but on no account allow the vegetables to burn ; then add five pints of clear soup, or medium stock, cut the lettuce, sorrel, and chervil into pieces, and put them into the soup, and let it all stew gently for an hour or more. Conger-Eel Soup. Time, two hours and three-quarters, or more. 157. Head and tail of a large conger-eel; three quarts of water ; a quarter of a pound of butter ; one leek ; the blossoms of four or five marigolds, and a few leaves ; half a pint of green peas, or the white heart of a cab- bage ; half a teacup of parsley ; a bunch of thyme ; two tablespoonfuls of flour ; a pint of milk and a little salt. Put the head and tail of a large conger- eel in a stewpan with three quarts of water, and let it simmer two hours and a half, or rather more, till it breaks to pieces when tried with a fork. Strain through a sieve, and pour back the liquor into the stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter. When boiling, throw in a small leek, a few mari- gold leaves cut up, half a pint of green peas (or asparagus cut up small when green peas cannot be procured), or, what is by many preferred, the white heart of a cabbage cut up, about a pintbasinful, or rather more; half a teacupful of parsley chopped small, and a bunch of thyme. Mix two heaped table- spoonfuls of flour in a pint of milk, the blossoms of four or five marigolds plucked, and when the peas or asparagus are done, throw it into the stewpan, stirring all the time till it comes to a boil; then let it boil ten minutes to take off the rawness of the flour, with the lid off the stewpan, or it would boil over. Some, who prefer the parsley green, do not put it in till after the milk boils. Before dishing up, season with a little salt, as the salt is apt to curdle the milk if added before. Have ready thin