Carving. 28 thus permitting a less bulky portion to be served. The pinions and that portion of the body removed with it, are always a delicacy, and care should be taken to carve them nicely : the joint of the pinion will be found at b. The stuffing, if it be of truffles, you will obtain by making an opening at c. Ordinary forcemeat is found in helping the breast. Boiled Turkey. Boiled Turkey is trussed in a different fashion to the roast, but the same direction given for the first ap- plies to the second. The legs in the boiled turkey being drawn into the body may cause some little diffi- culty at first in their separation, but a little practice will soon surmount it. Roast Fowl.—This operation is a nice and skilful one to perform ; it requires both observation and prac- tice. Insert the knife between the legs and the side, press back the leg with the blade of the knife, and the joint will come apart; if judiciously managed, it will re- quire but a nick where the joints unite. Remove the wing from d to B, cut through and lay it back as with the leg, separating the joint with the edge of the knife, remove the merrythought and neck bones next; this you will accomplish by inserting the knife and forcing it under the bones ; raise it and it will readily separate from the breast. You will divide the breast from the body by cutting through the small ribs down to the vent, turn the back uppermost, now put the knife into about the centre between the neck and rump, raise the lower part firmly yet gently, it will easily separate, turn the neck or rump from you, take off the side bones, and the fowl is carved. Roast Fowl. In separating the thigh from the drum- stick, you must insert the knife exactly at the joint, as we have indicated ” the en- experienced in parts asunder. There is no difference in carving roast and boiled fowls, if full grown ; but in a very young fowl when roasted, the breast is served whole. The wings and breast are preferred, but the leg of a young fowl is an excellent part. Capons when very fine and roasted, should have slices carved from the breast, like a turkey. Geese.—Follow with your knife the lines marked in the engra- ving, A to B, and cut slices, then remove the wing, and if the party be large, the legs must also be removed, and here the dis- join ler will again prove serviceable. The stuffing will be obtained by making an insertion at the apron, c. graving ; this, however, will be found to require practice, for the joint must be ac- curately hit, or else much difficulty will be getting the Roast Goose. Pheasant.