J33 Cakes. If the cake is large, pass a small knife-blade through it instead of the splint. Cakes to be kept fresh should be placed in a tin-box tightly covered, in a cool dark place. Icing for Cakes. 652. Whites of three eggs ; one pound of sugar ; flavouring of vanilla or lemon. Beat the whites of the eggs to a high froth, then add to them a quarter of a pound of white sugar pounded and sifted, flavour it with vanilla or lemon, and beat it until it is light and very white, but not quite so stiff as meringue mixture. The longer it is beaten the more firm it will become. Beat it until it may be spread smoothly on the cake. Spongecake. Time, three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 653. Five eggs ; half a pound of sifted loaf sugar ; the weight of two eggs and a half (in their shells) of flour ; one lemon. Take half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, break five eggs over it, and beat all together for full half an hour with a steel fork. Pre- viously take the weight of two eggs and a half (in their shells) in flour. After you have beaten the eggs and sugar together for the time specified, grate into them the peel of a lemon, and add the juice if approved. Stir the flour into this mixture and pour it into a tin. Put it Instantly into a cool oven. Rice Cake. Time, one hour. 634. A quarter of a pound of ground rice ; a quarter of a pound of flour ; half a pound of sifted sugar ; six ounces of butter ; four eggs ; and a few seeds. Mix the sugar, rice, butter, and flour to- gether, then add the whites of the eggs, having been previously beaten to a stiff froth. When it begins to look white add the yolks. Stir all well together. Line a tfn with buttered paper, and bake it. Josephine Cakes. Time, one hour. 655. Half a pound of butter ; half a pound of brown sugar; five eggs ; one pound of flour ; half a pound of currants ; one glass of white wine. Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, then beat in the sugar, and the five eggs well beaten. Mix it gradually into a pound of flour, add half a pound of currants washed and dried, and a glass of white wine, and bake it, when well beaten to- gether, in a buttered tin. Common Seed Cake. Time, two hours.. 636. Two pounds and a half of flour ; half a pound of loaf sugar ; one tablespoonful of thick yeast; half a pint of warm milk ; half a pound of butter ; one ounce of caraway seeds. Mix half a pound of pounded loaf sugar, or good moist, with two pounds and a half of dried flour ; mix a spoonful of yeast and half a pint of warm milk with a sufficient quantity of flour to make it the thickness of cream, and pour it into the middle of the flour and sugar, and set it by in a -warm place for one hour. Melt the butter to an oil, and stir it into the sponge, with the caraway seeds, and sufficient milk to make the dough of a middling stiffness ; line a tin, or hoop, with buttered paper, put in the mixture, and again set it before the fire to rise, bake it for one hour in rather a hot oven. When done, brush the top over with milk. A Light Cake. Time, one hour. 657. One pound of flour ; half a pound of butter ; half a pound of sugar ; three tea- spoonfuls of German yeast; a little milk, and nutmeg. Put the flour, sugar, and nutmeg into a bowl, and mix it thoroughly with three tea- spoonfuls of German yeast. Set it to rise, and just before setting it in the oven mix it up with the butter, warmed in a little milk, as stiff as you can, and bake it one hour. Add a few caraway seeds or citron, if you please. Lemon Cake. Time, one hour. 658. Six eggs ; half a pound of pounded sugar ; seven ounces of flour; peel of one large, or two small lemons. Beat the pounded sugar with the yolks of the eggs until it is smooth ; whisk the whites to a froth stiff enough to bear the weight of an egg, and add it to the beaten yolks ; then stir in gradually seven ounces of flour, and the grated peel of one large, or two small lemons. Line a tin with buttered paper, pour in the cake mixture and bake it. Soda Cake. Time, one hour and a half to two hours. 659. One pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of sugar ; six ounces of butter ; half a pound of currants ; fifty grains or a small teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; half a pint of milk ; and two eggs. Rub the quarter of a pound of butter into the flour and sugar. Mix the soda thoroughly with the milk, which must be cold. ' Mix all the ingredients well together ; put the mixture into a tin, and bake directly.