L obsters— Crabs— Oysters. 47 fry it a nice brown, and serve it on a hot table-napkin, with anchovy or shrimp sauce. SHELL-FISH—LOBSTER. To Choose Lobsters. 99. The heaviest are the best, and very often a good small-sized lobster will weigh heavier than a large one. The male is the best for boiling, the flesh is firmer, the shell of a brighter red. You may easily distinguish the hen lobster by its broader tail, and the two uppermost fins within the tail being less stiff and hard than those of the male lobster. Hen lobsters are best for sauce or salad, on account of their coral. To Boil a Lobster. Time, half an hour. 100. Boiling a lobster may be made a horrible operation if the advice we are about to give is not attended to ; and its cries in dying are said to be most painful. Happily it is possible to kill it immediately. It is done thus :— Put into a large kettle water enough to cover the lobster, with a quarter of a pound of salt to every gallon of water. When it boils fast put in the lobster, head this is a little difficult to achieve, as the lobster is not easy to hold thus over the hot steam, but we are sure any humane cook will do it. If the head goes in first it is killed instantly. Boil it briskly for half an hour, then take it from the hot water with the tongs, and lay it to drain. Wipe off all the scum from it; tie a little piece of butter in a cloth and rub it over with it. A lobster weighing a pound takes one hour to boil, others in like proportion, more or less. To Dress Lobsters. 101. When sent to table, separate the body from the tail, remove the large claws, and crack them at each joint carefully, and split the tail down the middle with a sharp knife ; place the body upright in the centre of a dish on a napkin, and arrange the tail and claws on each side. Garnish it with double parsley. To Choose Crabs. 102. The heaviest crabs are usually con- sidered the best, although those of a mid- dling size are the sweetest, when perfectly fresh, and in perfection. The shell, whether alive or dead, should be of a brign- red colour, and the joints of the legs stiff. Crabs are stale when the eyes look dull. They are boiled in the same manner as lobsters, but require a much longer time, and are usually eaten cold. To Dress Boiled Crabs. 103. Empty the large shell; mix the flesh with a very little oil, vinegar, salt, white pepper, and Cayenne to your taste, replace the meat in the large shell, and place it in the dish with the claws as represented in the engraving. Scalloped Oysters. Time, a quarter of an hour. 104. Three dozen oysters ; grated bread- crumbs about a large teacupful; two ounces of fresh butter ; pepper. Butter some tin scallop shells, or if you have not any, a small tart dish. Strew in a layer of grated bread, then put some thin slices of butter, then oysters enough to fill your shells or dish. Cover them thickly with bread-crumbs, again add slices of butter. Pepper the whole well, add a little of the liquor kept from the oysters. Put butter over the whole surface, and bake in a quick oven. Serve them in their shells or in the dish. Brown them with a salamander. If you have not one, make the kitchen shovel red- hot and hold it over closely enough to brown your scallops. To Stew Oysters Plain. Time, three or four minutes. 105. Three dozen oysters ; thin melted butter ; a blade of mace ; twenty pepper corns. Open the oysters, cut off the beards and wash them in their own liquor to remove the grit. Strain it into a small stewpan, add a little thin melted butter to thicken it, a blade of mace, and twenty pepper corns tied up in muslin. Let the oysters simmer in this sauce for about three or four minutes, taking care they do not boil. Serve with sippets of bread. Oyster Fritters. Time, five or six minutes. 106. Some good-sized oysters ; four whole eggs ; a tablespoonful of milk ; salt and pepper ; crumbs. Beard some good-sized oysters, make a thick omelet batter with four eggs and a tablespoonful of milk, dip each oyster into the batter, and then into grated bread, fry them a nice colour, and use them to garnish fried fish. Scallop Fish, or St. James’s Cockle. Time, half an hour. 107. Scallops ; bread crumbs ; pepper; salt; a sprig of minced parsley; flour ; a spoonful of lemon pickle. Open the scallops with a knife, and take