43 Tench—Plaice—Flounders— S melts— Sprats. cover the pan, and bake it one hour. Put a good sized piece of butter into a stewpan with a dust of flour; when melted, pour in the strained liquor from the carp, with a teaspoonful of mustard, one of soy, and a little salt and Cayenne ; boil it up again, and serve the fish on a dish, garnished with slices of lemon and bunches of parsley, and the sauce in a boat. Fried Carp. Time, twenty minutes or longer, according to size. 69. Carp ; slices of bread ; a lemon. Clean and dry the fish, flour them well, put them in the pan, and fry them of a light brown ; lay them on a cloth to drain, and fry some three-cornered pieces of bread and the roes. Serve the carp with the roes on each side of the dish ; garnish it with the fried bread and lemon in slices, and make anchovy sauce, with the juice of a lemon added, to eat with it. Fried Tench. Time, varying with size—about twenty minutes. 70. Two tench; a little salt ; lemon juice ; butter ; and flour. Clean two fine tench by throwing them into boiling water just long enough to enable you to raise the skin. Remove the gills and fins, gut them, and clean them thoroughly. Cut them down the back, and take out the bones, sprinkle a little salt over them, flour them, squeeze some lemon juice over them ; fry them in butter, and serve them upon a napkin. To Fillet Plaice. Time, about twelve minutes. 71. Skin them, lay them flat on the table, and cut right down the backbone, then raise the fillet from head to tail. Having quite removed the fillets from the bones, cut them nicely in pieces, and fry them in two ounces of dripping or lard, with a little pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon. Drain them on a cloth to absorb the grease, and serve them upon a hot white table-napkin. To Boil Plaice or Flounders. Time, six to seven minutes. Flounders are in'season from September to November. 72. A quarter of a pound of salt to a gallon of water, and a very little saltpetre. Well clean and empty your fish, draw a sharp knife down the thickest part of the middle of the back, nearly through to the bone; lay them in a fish-kettle of cold water, with salt in the above proportion, with a small piece of saltpetre ; let them simmer for six or seven minutes after the water begins to boil, or longer should your fish be very large, taking great care they are not broken. Serve them (with plain melted butter) on a folded napkin. To Fry Plaice or Flounders. Time, five minutes. 73. Two tablespoonfuls of vinegar; an egg ; bread-crumbs ; fried parsley ; and some anchovy sauce. Sprinkle the plaice or flounders with salt, and let them lie for twenty-four hours, then wash them and wipe them dry ; brush them over with egg, and cover them with bread- crumbs ; make some lard or dripping mixed with two tablespoonfuls of vinegar boiling hot in a frying-pan ; lay the fish in, and fry them a nice brown colour, drain them from the fat on a cloth, and serve them on a folded napkin, garnished with fried parsley. Anchovy sauce. To Fry Smelts. Time, three or four minutes. 74. Seven smelts; two eggs; bread- crumbs ; a little flour; and a piece of butter. Smelts should not be washed more than is necessary to just clean them ; cut off the fins, dry them in a cloth, and dredge a little flour over them, melt half an ounce of butter and beat into it the yolks of two eggs. Dip the smelts into it, then into bread- crumbs finely grated, and plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat ; let them fry gently, and a few minutes will make them of a bright yellow brown. Be careful not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be lost. When done, dish them up on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve anchovy or shrimp sauce with them separately. Fried Smelts, French Way. Time, three or four minutes. 75. Smelts ; a little flour; milk ; crisped parsley. After the smelts are prepared and dried dip them into milk, dredge them with flour, and fry them until they are of a fine colour, and serve them with crisped parsley. Sprats. Time, two or three minutes. 76. Well clean a number of sprats, fasten them in rows by a skewer run through their gills, place them on a close-barred gridiron, broil them a nice brown, and serve them hot and hot.