46 Pike-Mackerel—Haddocks—Skate. French roll; two eggs ; lemon ; sweet herbs ; pepper ; salt ; nutmeg ; a lump of butter ; a wineglass of vinegar. When you have taken out the gills, cleaned and thoroughly washed the fish, make a forcemeat of a dozen chopped oysters, the crumb of half, or a whole French roll, a little lemon peel shred fine, a lump of butter, a few sweet herbs, the yolks of two well beaten eggs, seasoned to your taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Mix all together and stuff the fish ; sew it up, and fasten it with the tail in the mouth with a small skewar. Put it into a fish-kettle of boiling water with a wineglassful of vinegar and a tablespoonful of salt. If it is of a middling size, it will be done in about half an hour ; or, if large, one hour. Serve it up with melted butter and a lemon, or with anchovy sauce. Garnish with pickled bar- berries. To Bake Pike. Time, one hour. 91. A large pike ; some forcemeat; two or three anchovies ; half the peel of a lemon ; one glass of wine ; one tablespoonful of sauce ; a spoonful of capers. Scale and wash a large pike, fill it well with stuffing made as for veal, skewer the tail in the mouth, and place it in a deep dish. Season it with salt. Put a good- sized piece of butter over it, and bake it for an hour. When done, add to it about half a pint or more of the gravy, two or three small anchovies chopped very fine, the rind of half a lemon, grated, a spoonful of capers, a large spoonful of sauce, either Worcester or Reading, a glass of wine, and a little butter rolled in flour to thicken it. Serve the fish on a dish and the sauce in a boat. Mackerel Boiled. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 92. Cut the fish open sufficiently to empty the inside, remove the roes, and thoroughly wash them and tire mackerel. Put the fish into a fish-kettle of cold water with a large tablespoonful of salt, bring them gradually to a boil, and simmet for about twenty minutes if the fish is large ; if small, fifteen minutes will be sufficient, or even less time ; but they must be taken carefully out when the eyes are starting. Remove the scum as it rises, and when done, serve them on a napkin, and send fennel sauce, plain melted butter, or gooseberry sauce to table with them. To Boil Haddocks. Time, a quarter to half an hour, according to size. 93. Two haddocks; enough water to cover them; a quarter of a pound of salt to each gallon of water. Clean the fish,'and wash them thoroughly, they will require scraping first, then put them in the fish-kettle; simmer them gently. Serve with a garnish of sliced lemon and parsley. Sauce : melted butter or anchovy. Baked Haddock. Time, from half an hour to an hour. 94. One haddock ; some veal stuffing, bread-crumbs, and one egg. Thoroughly clean and dry the haddock, fill the inside with veal stuffing, sew it up, and curl the tail into its mouth. Brush it over with egg, and strew bread-crumbs over it. Set it in a warm oven to bake for about half an hour, but if a Dublin Bay haddock, it will require double that time. Serve it on a dish without a napkin, with any sauce you please, anchovy, melted butter, &c. To Broil Haddock. Time, half an hour. 95. Clean and dry the haddock, and put it into a Dutch oven before a very quick fire ; as soon as the skin rises take it from the fire, brush it over with the yolk of a well-beaten egg. Strew bread-crumbs thickly over it, and dredge it with flour. Rub some butter over a gridiron, lay the fish carefully on it, and each time turned, lay a small slice of butter over it. Serve with shrimp sauce or melted butter. To Crimp Skate. Time to soak, one hour. 96. Have the skate alive ; skin, and wash it very clean, cut it in long slips the whole length of the fish, about an inch broad, roll it over your finger, and throw it into spring water; cut the middle part of the fish in any form you like, wash it well, and put it into spring water for one hour, then wash it very clean, and put it to drain for use. To Boil Crimped Skate. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. 97. Clean, skin, and cut the fish into slices, roll them over your finger, and fasten them round with a thin string. Put them into a stewpan with a large quantity of salt in the water ; boil them for about fifteen or twenty minutes, and hold them over the stewpan to drain ; remove the string, and serve them on a folded napkin placed in a hot dish. Shrimp or lob. ter sauce may be served with it. To Fry Skate. * 9S. Brush it over with the yolk of a well- beaten egg, and cover it with bread-crumbs,