Venison and Poultry. 81 together with the eggs. Then add to it and beat up with it the groats and soaked bread, See. When well mixed, have ready some skin-bags, as for sausages, but much larger (we suppose, of course, that they have been well cleaned and soaked), put the mixture into these bags ; but as you do so, add at regular distances pork fat cut into large dice. Tie the skins in links only half-filled, and boil the puddings in a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, dry them in clean cloths, and hang them up. To cook them for eating, scald them for a few minutes in water, and cook them in a Dutch oven. VENISON. Haunch of Venison. Time, three to four hours. 311. Haunch from twenty to twenty-five pounds. This joint is trimmed by cutting off part of the knuckle and sawing off the chine bone, then the flap is folded over, and it is covered with a paste made of flour and water. This paste should be about an inch thick. Tie it up in strong and very thick paper, and place it in a cradle spit very close to the fire till the paste is well hardened or crusted, pouring a few ladlefuls of hot drip- ping over it occasionally to prevent the paper from catching fire. Then move it further from the fire, take care that your fire is a very good one, clear and strong. When the venison has roasted for about four hours take it up, remove the paper and paste, and run a thin skewer in to see if it is done enough. If the skewer goes in easily it is dressed, if not put it down again, as it depends greatly on the strength of the fire for so large a joint. When it is dressed, glaze the top and salamander it. Put a frill round the knuckle, and serve very hot with strong gravy. Red currant jelly in a glass dish or a tureen. Vegetables: French beans. Neck of Venison. Time, a quarter of an hour for a pound. 3x2. Cover it with paste and paper as for the haunch, fix it on a spit and roast. To Hash Venison. Time, one hour and a half. 313. Some cold roast venison ; three ta- blespoonfuls of port wine ; a little mutton broth ; half of a shallot; a pinch of Cay- enne ; one ounce and a half of butter ; a spoonful of flour ; and salt to taste. Cut some cold roast venison into nice slices, and season them lightly with salt ; put the bones, trimmings, any cold gravy from the venison, and as much broth as you may require into a stewpan, and let it simmer slowly for quite an hour, then strain it off; stir the butter and flour over the fire until sufficiently brown to colour the gravy, taking care it does not burn. Pour the gravy from the bones, add the port wine, and let it simmer until it boils. Then draw the stewpan to the side of the fire, put in the slices of venison, and when thoroughly hot serve it up, with red currant jelly in a glass dish. Garnish with forcemeat balls about the size of a marble. POULTRY. Roast Turkey. In season from December to February. Time, according to size, from one hour and fifteen minutes to two hours, or two hours and a half. 314. Half a pint of forcemeat for veal, or sausage meat ; a little butter. To truss the bird : pick the bird carefully, and singe off the down with a piece of lighted white paper ; break the leg bones close to the feet; hang it on a hook, and draw out the strings from the thigh ; cut the neck off close to the back, but leave the crop skin long enough to turn over the back; remove the crop, and with the middle finger loosen the liver and the gut at the throat end. Cut off the vent, remove the gut, take a crooked wire and pull out the gizzard, and the liver will easily follow. But be very careful not to break the gall bladder ; if you do it will spoil the flavour of the bird entirely, by giving it a bitter taste, which no after efforts of wash- ing, &c., can remove. Do not break the gut joining the gizzard either, lest the inside should become gritty. Wipe the inside perfectly clean with a wet cloth, then cut the breast-bone through on each side close to the back, and draw the legs close to the crop. Put a clo'h on the breast and beat the breast-bone down with a rolling-pin till it lies flat. Scald the feet, peel off the outer skin, and cut away the claws ; leave the legs on. Fill the inside with veal stuffing or sausage meat (see Forcemeats), and either sew the skin of the neck over the back with a trussing needle, or fasten it with a very small skewer. Then run a long skewer into the pinion and thigh through the body, G