53 Soups and Broths. celery ; two blades of mace ; half an ounce of salt; a small bunch of thyme and parsley ; three lumps of sugar. Put the gravy beef and the veal into a well-tinned copper stock-pot, with two ounces of butter ; set it over a hot plate, and cover it tightly over to keep in the steam until it is properly drawn down. You will know when it is sufficiently drawn by the smell, which resembles a delicately-roasted joint, the butter frying the meat; then add the water made very hot, the carrots cut small, the onions, turnips, celery, bunch of thyme and parsley, with two blades of mace, the salt, and lumps of sugar. Half cover the stock-pot with the lid, but by no means cover it wholly, as all the steam must be allowed to evaporate, or the stock will imbibe a coarse flavour, and become thick ; let it simmer gently for seven hours, then strain it off carefully through a sieve into a pan, and heat it when required for use, adding a little salt and loaf sugar. Cock-a-Leekie. Time, three or four hours. 131. One fowl; three bunches of winter leeks ; pepper and salt ; and five quarts of medium stock. Well wash the leeks, take off part of the heads and the roots, scald them in boiling water for five or six minutes, and then cut them into small pieces. Put a fowl trussed as for boiling into a stewpan, with the pieces of leek, a little pepper and salt, and nearly five quarts of stock ; let the whole simmer very slowly at the corner of the fire for three or four hours, keeping it well skimmed. When ready to serve, take out the fowl, cut it into neat pieces, place them in a tureen, and pour the leeks and the broth over them (the leeks being made into a puffie), as the soup should be very thick of leeks. This soup is greatly improved by warming it up a second time. It will keep for some little time good. Hotch-Potch. Time, after it is made, a quarter of an hour. 132. One pint of peas ; three pounds of the lean end of a loin of mutton ; one gallon of water ; four carrots ; four turnips ; pepper and salt ; one onion ; one head of celery. Put a pint of peas into a stewpan with a quart of water, and boil them until they will pulp through a sieve. Then take the lean end of a loin of mutton, cut it into chops, put it into a stewpan with a gallon of water, the carrots and turnips cut into Small pieces, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Boil it until all the vegetables are quite tender, put in the pulped peas and a head of celery, and an onion sliced ; let it boil fifteen minutes, and serve. Kidney Soup. Time, six hours. 133. One bullock's kidney ; three sticks of celery; three or four turnips ; three or four carrots ; a bunch of sweet herbs; pepper and salt ; a spoonful of mushroom ketchup ; the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled. Add to the liquor from a boiled leg of mutton a bullock's kidney, put it over the fire, and when half done, take out the kidney, and cut it into pieces the size of dice. Add three sticks of celery, three or four turnips, and the same of carrots, all cut small, and a bunch of sweet herbs tied together. Season to your taste with pepper and salt. Let it boil slowly for five or six hours, adding the ketchup. When done take out the herbs, and serve the vegetables in the soup. It is always better (as all soups are) made the day before it is wanted. Scotch Mutton Broth in Summer. Time, three hours. 134. Nine or ten pints of water; half a pound of barley; a quarter of a peck of green peas ; one small turnip; two carrots ; a little parsley; one onion ; four pounds of mutton ; one teaspoonful of salt; one of pepper. Cut into small pieces the turnip, carrot, and onion (after well washing them), and put the meat in first. Skim the pot till no more scum rises, then add the vegetables. Any one of the vegetables may be omitted, except the green peas. Scotch Barley Broth. Time, two hours. 135. Six pounds of flank of beef; six quarts of water ; a quarter of a pound of barley ; three heads of celery ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; a small onion ; two carrots ; two turnips ; and a little chopped parsley. Take six pounds of the thick flank of beef, and cover it with six quarts of water, and a quarter of a pound of barley ; boil it gently for an hour, skimming it frequently. Then add three heads of celery, two carrots, two turnips cut into pieces, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little parsley ; boil all together till you find the broth very good. Season it with salt. Then take out the beef, the onion, and sweet herbs ; pour the broth into the tureen, and put the beef in a dish garnished with carrots and turnips,