62 Forcemeats or Stuffing. To Dry Mushrooms. 190. Wipe them dean and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags with your dried herbs in a dry place. Ticket all your herb-bags with their several names. To Use Dried Mushrooms. Time, ten minutes to a quarter of an hour. 191. Simmer them in gravy ; they will swell to nearly their original size. FORCEMEATS OR STUFFING. A common Forcemeat for Veal or Hare. 192. Six ounces of bread-crumbs ; the rind of half a lemon ; one tablespoonful of minced savoury herbs ; three ounces of suet, or butter ; two eggs ; pepper and salt ; and nutmeg. Mix with the bread-crumbs the peel of the lemon minced very fine ; a tablespoonful of chopped savoury herbs, or dried ones if not able to procure them green ; three ounces of finely-chopped beaf suet, or of butter broken into small pieces ; season it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and bind it with two well-beaten eggs. Sage and Onion Stuffing for Geese, Ducks, or Pork. 193. Three onions; five ounces of bread- crumbs ; eight sage leaves ; one ounce of butter ; pepper ; salt; one egg. Wash, peel, and boil the onions in two waters to extract the strong flavour, and scald the sage leaves for a tew minutes. Chop the onions and leaves very fine, mix them with the bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, a piece of butter broken into pieces, and the yolk of one egg. Oyster Forcemeat. 194. Half a pint of oysters ; five ounces of bread-crumbs ; one ounce of butter ; the peel of half a lemon ; a sprig of parsley; salt; nutmeg ; a very little Cayenne ; and one egg. Take off the beards from half a pint of oysters, wash them well in their own liquor, and mince them very fine ; mix with them the peel of half a lemon chopped small, a sprig of parsley, a seasoning of salt, nutmeg, and a very little Cayenne, and about an ounce of butter in small pieces. Stir into these ingredients five ounces of bread- crumbs, and when thoroughly mixed to- gether, bind it with the yolk of an egg and part of the oyster liquor. Egg Balls for Made Dishes or Soup. Time, twenty minutes to boil the eggs. 195. Twelve eggs ; a little flour and salt. Pound the hard-boiled yolks of eight eggs in a mortar until very smooth ; then mix with them the yolks of four raw eggs, a little salt, and a dust or so of flour to make them bind. Roll them into small balls, boil them in water, and then add them to any made dishes or soups for which they may be required. Fried Parsley. Time, two minutes. 196. Fried parsley is the cheapest and commonest of garnishings, but it requires to be very nicely done. Wash and pick the parsley, and dry it thoroughly in a cloth. Then put it in a wire basket, and hold it in boiling dripping for two minutes. Take it out of the basket and dry it well before the fire that it may become very crisp. The dripping in which it is fried should be quite boiling. If the cook possess no wire basket, she must fry the parsley as quickly as possible, and dry it before the fire when it is done. Season for Drying Herbs for Flavouring. Basil is fit for drying about the middle of August. Chervil, in May, June, and July. Elder-flowers, in May, June, and July. Fennel, May, June, and July. Knotted marjoram, July. Lemon thyme, July and August. Mint, the end of June and July. Orange thyme, June and July. Parsley, May, June, July. Sage, August and September. Summer savory, end of July and August. Tarragon, June, July, and August. Thyme, end of July and August. Winter savor}', end of July and August. They must be gathered on a dry day, and cleaned and dried immediately by the heat of a stove or Dutch oven, the leaves picked off, sifted, and bottled. STORE SAUCES. Walnut Ketchup. Time, to boil, half an hour. 197. One hundred walnuts ; six ounces of shallots ; one head of garlic ; half a pound of salt ; two quarts of vinegar ; two ounces of anchovies ; two ounces of pepper; a quarter of an ounce of mace ; half an ounce of cloves. Beat in a large mortar a hundred green walnuts until they are thoroughly broken, then put them into ajar with six ounces of