27 Carving. who prefer the hock carve at D, in the same direction as from A to B, then carve from D to C, in thin slices, as indicated in the diagram. Boiled Tongue. — Carve across the tongue, but do not cut through ; keep the slices rather thin, and help the fat and kernels from underneath. Sucking Pig.—The cook should send a roast pig to table as displayed here, gar- nished with head and ears; carve the joints in the direction shown by the lines in the diagram, then divide the ribs, serve with plenty of sauce ; should one of the joints be too much, it may be separated: bread sauce and stuffing should accompany it. An ear and the jaw are favourite parts with many people. Hare.—Cut slices from b to A of moderate thickness. When the hare is young, you can, after removing the shoulders and legs, cut across the back and divide it into several pieces ; this is not practicable with a full grown hare, unless it is boned ; the shoulders and legs are easily removed by placing the knife between them, and turning them back, the joint will disclose itself and can then be separated. The head should not be removed until the last, divide it from the neck, remove the lower jaw, then cut through the divi- sion which appears from the nose to the top of the skull, and lay it open. The stuffing should be given with whatever portion may be helped. Roast Rabbits are carved in the same manner. Boiled Rabbit.—Remove the legs and shoulders, they very easily separate, divide the back into two parts, and by holding the fork firmly in the back, and passing the knife underneath, near the middle, and bending it back, this is accomplished readily. The most tender part is on the loins, the meat there is of a very delicate flavour ; liver should be helped with it. Poultry.—Poultry requires skilful carv- ing ; the requisites are grace of manner, ease in the performance, a perfect knowledge of the posi- tion of the joints, and the most complete mode of dissect- ing, so as to obtain the largest quantity of meat. In no case is this ability more demanded than in carving a roast turkey. Unless this is done well, there is not only much waste, but the appearance of the turkey is spoiled. You will commence by carving slices from each side of the breast, in the same directions as the lines marked in the engraving, cutting from a to B. Then remove the legs, dividing the thighs from the drumsticks, and here an instrument termed a disjointer will be found serviceable, for unless the turkey be very young, and the union of the joints very accurately taken, carving becomes difficult: Ham. Roast Pig. Hare. Boiled Rabbit. Roast Turkey. the disjointer effects the separation at once, and it possesses also the advantage of ena- bling the carver to divide a thigh into two,