Sauces— Glaze— Gravies. 59 W' ■■■.!■ —— Oyster Sauce. Time, five minutes. 165. One dozen of oysters ; half a tea- cupful of good gravy ; half a pint of melted butter. Stew the beards of the oysters in their own juice with half a teacupful of good clear gravy ; strain it off, add it to the melted butter—which should be ready—put in the oysters, and let them simmer gently for three minutes. Shrimp Sauce. Time, five minutes. 166. One pint of shrimps ; half a pint of melted butter ; essence of anchovies, one teaspoonful; Cayenne, just a pinch. Mix the essence of anchovies and Cayenne with half a pinf of melted butter ; add the pint of shrimps (picked) to the melted but- ter when boiling ; then set it on one side of the fire till the tiny fish are heated through, but do not let it boil again. A very little piece of lemon improves this sauce. Sauce Blonde for any Fish. Time, thirty-six minutes. 167. A cupful of melted butter ; three tablespoonfuls of good stock; two mush- rooms ; a sprig of parsley ; one onion ; one lemon ; one glass of wine ; yolks of three eggs ; pepper ; salt; and mace. Put a cupful of melted butter and thrtje tablespoonfuls of stock into a stewpan with a sprig of parsley, an onion cut into slices ; two mushrooms minced very fine, a lemon cut into thin slices, and a glass of white wine. Set this sauce over a slow fire, and let it stew for half an hour ; then add the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and stir the pan over the fire for five or six minutes; strain the sauce through a sieve, and serve it with any fish. Anchovy Sauce for Fish. Time, four minutes. 168. Three dessertspoonfuls of anchovy essence ; half a pint of melted butter ; sea- soning to your taste. Stir three dessertspoonfuls of anchovy es- sence into half a pint of good melted but- ter, add a seasoning to your taste, and boil- it up for a minute or two. Use plenty of Cayenne and a little mace in this sauce. Mayonnaise Sauce. 169. Yolks of two eggs; one lemon; salad oil ; one spoonful of pepper ; one spoonful of salt; same of moist sugar. A Mayonnaise is simply a French dressing; for salad. Mix the yolks of two or three eggs with the pepper and salt ; then work together with them the salad oil; mix it so thoroughly that it may appear a perfect cream. Keep by your side a lemon cut in two. As soon as the oil and eggs begin to mix, squeeze in the lemon juice, add more oil, drop by drop, then more lemon juice, till the mixture is finished. Add the oil by degrees, not all at once. Let it be a per- fect cream before you use it. Use a wooden spoon, and mix in a cool place. Glaze. Time, till it becomes a jelly. 170. Boil some veiy strong clear gravy or jelly over a quick fire to the thickness of cream, stirring it constantly until it will adhere like jelly to the spoon. It must then be immediately poured out of the stewpan : the greatest care is required during the time of thickening to. prevent it from burning. When required for use, dissolve it by plac- ing the jar (or whatever it may be kept in) in boiling water, and brushing it over the meat two or three times, when it will form a clear varnish. Any kind of very rich stock can be boiled down to a glaze. To be used for hams, tongues, &c. To Brown Flour. Time, five minutes. 171. Put some flour in a pan or dish, and set it in the oven or over the fire. Stir it about that it may not burn ; but let it brown well. Keep it in a dredging box for brown- ing ordinary gravies. A Cheap Brown Gravy. Time, two hours. 172. One pound of gravy beef; one sheep’s melt; pepper and salt ; one small onion ; a little celery, and a tablespoonful of ketchup. Take a pound of gravy beef and a sheep's melt, cut it into slices, dredge them with flour, and fry them lightly in butter ; then pour in hot quite a pint of water. Add a seasoning of pepper and salt, a small onion, and a piece of celery cut into slices. Set the stewpan over the fire, and let it stew slowly for two hours. Skim it well; strain it; add a spoonful of ketchup, and set it by for use. Kidney Gravy. Time, one hour and three-quarters. 173. Four kidneys ; two ounces and a half of butter ; a few sweet herbs ; a little salt and Cayenne ; one tablespoonful of ketchup; half an onion ; one pint of water. Slice four kidneys, cut them into pieces and dredge them with flour ; put them into