Baked ana Boiled Puddings. the butter and the sugar, add the yolks of the eggs well beaten, and stir it over the fire until it boils, (hen pour it into the dish over the sweetmeats, and bake it in a slow oven. Cup Puddings. Time, to bake, twenty minutes. 538. Three ounces of flour ; three ounces of bu t ter ; two ounces of sugar ; half a pint of milk. Beat the butter to a cream, add to it the sugar pounded, stir in the flour, and mix it with a pint of milk. Put the mixture into buttered cups, and bake them. Currant Dumplings. Time, half an hour. 539. One pound of currants; three- quarters of a pound of suet; nine dessert- spoonfuls of flour; three teaspoonfuls of powdered ginger ; four eggs ; one pint of milk. Wash, pick, and dry a pound of currants and lay them on a plate before the fire ; mix nine dessertspoonfuls of flour with the powdered ginger, a pinch of salt, and the beef-suet chopped very fine, add the cur- rants, and mix all thoroughly together ; make the whole into a light paste with four well-beaten eggs and a pint of milk, roll it into large balls and put them into a sauce- pan of boiling water ; move them frequently that they may not stick ; and when done, serve them hot. Or make the pudding in the shape of a bolster, rolled in a cloth (previously dipped into hot water and floured) tied tightly at each end, and put into a saucepan of boil- ing water. It will take an hour and a half to boil in this form. Date Pudding. Time, four hours. 540. Half a pound of dates ; half a pound of bread-crumbs ; five ounces of suet ; six ounces of white sugar ; two eggs ; a pinch of salt ; and a little nutmeg. Chop the dates and the suet very fine ; add five ounces of sugar, half a pound of bread-crumbs, a pinch of salt, and a little nutmeg; mix all together with the eggs well beaten, and boil it in a basin or a pud- ding shape for four hours. Fig Pudding. Time, to boil, four hours. 541. Half a pound of bread-crumbs; half a pound of figs ; six ounces of brown sugar ; two eggs ; a little nutmeg ; a quarter of a pound of suet; and a little milk ; two ounces of flour. The figs and suet to be chopped very fine, and well mixed with the bread-crumbs, flour, sugar, and nutmeg ; then stir all the ingredients well together, and add two eggs well beaten, and a little milk ; press the whole into a buttered mould, tie it over with a thick cloth, and boil it. Serve it with wine sauce or without, as you please. Fun Pudding. Time, twenty minutes. 542. Some apples ; a little sugar and butter ; apricot jam ; two spoonfuls of arrow- root ; one pint of milk. Fill a large dish three-parts full with apples sliced very thin. Sprinkle some finely powdered sugar over them, and a very thin layer of butter, and over the butter put a layer of apricot jam. Then take a stewpan with two spoonfuls of arrowroot, a little loaf sugar, and a pint of milk. Stir it over the fire till it boils, pour it over the apples, and bake it in a moderate oven until brown. General Satisfaction. Time, about half an hour. 543. Some preserve ; finger spongecakes; a gill of milk ; an ounce of butter ; a spoon- ful of flour ; the peel of a lemon ; yolk of an egg ; a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste; whites of three eggs ; puff paste. Line a pie-dish with rich puff paste. Put a layer of raspberry or strawberry preserve at the bottom, then a layer of the finger spongecakes, then a layer of the following mixture Take a gill of milk, one ounce of butter, a spoonful of flour, and the peel of a lemon grated, and boil it until it thickens. When cold, add the yolk of a beaten egg, a little nutmeg, and sugar to your taste. Cover the edge of the paste to prevent its burning, and bake it in a moderate oven. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, lay it on the pudding when baked, and put it again into the oven for a few minutes before serv- ing. Gingerbread Pudding. Time, to boil, two hours. 544. Six ounces of bread-crumbs ; six ounces of suet ; two ounces of flour ; half a pound of treacle ; a teaspoouful of ground ginger. Grate six ounces of stale bread, and mix it with the suet chopped very fine, and two ounces of flour. Add the ground ginger, and mix all well together with half a pound of treacle. Put it into a mould, and boil it. German Pudding. Time, three hours to boil. 545. Half a pound of treacle; half a pound of flour ; a quarter of a pound of suet; a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda;