Soups. 55 it. When sufficiently stewed, set it to cool, and carefully remove the fat; add to it four ounces of almonds blanched and pounded ; let it boil slowly again, and thicken it with half a pint of cream or milk and a well- beaten egg. It should boil slowly for half an hour ; then serve it. Wrexham Soup. Time, six or seven hours. 141. One pound of lean beef, and every description of vegetables in season ; no water. Cut a pound of gravy beef into very small pieces ; put them into a half gallon jar ; fill it up with every description of vegetables, even lettuces. Tie the jar over with a bladder, and put it over the fire in a deep saucepan of boiling water, or in the oven, which is far better, for at least six hours. This generally makes sufficient soup for four persons. A little pepper and salt must be added. Macaroni Soup. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 142. Four ounces of macaroni; one large onion ; five cloves ; one ounce of butter ; and two quarts of clear gravy soup. Put into a stewpan of boiling water four ounces of macaroni, one ounce of butter, and an onion stuck with five cloves. When the macaroni has become quite tender, drain it very dry, and pour on it two quarts of clear gravy soup. Let it simmer for ten minutes, taking care that the macaroni does not burst or become a pulp ; it will then be ready to serve. It should be sent to table with grated Parmesan cheese. Macaroni is a great improvement to white soup, or to clear gravy soup, but it must be previously boiled for twenty minutes in water. Tapioca Soup. Time, twenty minutes. 143. One quart of stock; two table- spoonfuls of tapioca. Boil one quart of stock ; when it is at boiling-point add the tapioca ; boil twenty minutes and it is done. You can use sago and semolina in the same manner. Soup (Liebig). Time, ten minutes. 144. One pound of gravy beef ; one pint of water; one carrot ; one turnip ; one onion; one clove. Take a pound of gravy beef without bone, mince it very fine, and pour on it a pint of water in which a turnip, carrot, onion, and a clove have been boiled. Let it simmer by the side of the fire ten minutes, and it is fit for use. When strained off, it will make two small basins of soup. Stir before using. Pepperpot. Time, three hours and a half. 145. Four pounds of gravy beef; six quarts of water; a bouquet of savoury herbs ; two small crabs or lobsters ; a large bunch of spinach ; half a pound of cold bacon ; a few suet dumplings (made of flour, beef-suet, and yolk of one egg) ; one pound of asparagus tops ; Cayenne pepper ; pepper and salt to taste ; juice of a lemon. Put four pounds of gravy beef into six quarts of water, with the bouquet of savoury herbs ; let it simmer well till all the good- ness is extracted, skimming it well. Let it stand till cold, that all the fat may be taken off it. Put it into a stewpan and heat it. When hot, add the flesh of two middling- sized crabs or lobsters, nicely cut up, spinach well boiled and chopped fine, half a pound of cold bacon or pickled pork, dressed previously and cut into small pieces, a few small dumplings, made very light with flour, beef-suet, yolk of egg, and a little w'ater. Add one pound of asparagus tops, season to your taste with Cayenne, salt, pepper, and juice of a lemon ; stew for about half an hour, stirring it con- stantly. Hare Soup. Time, eight hours. 146. One hare ; a pound and a half of gravy beef ; one pound of bones ; a slice of lean bacon ; a bunch of sweet herbs ; one onion ; a spoonful of soy ; a little Cayenne, salt ; and two quarts of water. Cut an old hare into pieces, and put it into a large jar with a pound and a half of gravy beef, a pound of bones well cleaned, a slice of lean bacon, one onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour over it two quarts of water, and cover the jar well over with bladder and paper ; set it in a kettle of boiling water, and let it simmer till the hare is stewed to rags. Strain off the gravy, add an anchovy cut into small pieces, a spoonful of soy, with a little Cayenne and salt. Serve a few forcemeat balls in the tureen. VEGETABLE SOUPS. * The vegetables should be nicely prepared for these soups. Cut carrots in thin rounds with the edges notched ; grated, they give an amber colour to soup. Wash parsley carefully and cut it small. Cut turnips into thin slices, and then divide