Jams and Jellies. J38 To Preserve Lettuce Stalks. Time, thirty-five minutes the first time. 687. The stalks of large lettuces; one pound and a half of sugar to six pints of water; three dessertspoonfuls of ground ginger ; three ounces of whole ginger. Cut into pieces of about three inches in length some stalks of large lettuces, and soak them in cold water for ten minutes, washing them very clean. Put a pound and a half of sugar into a preserving-pan with six pints of water and three large dessert- spoonfuls of ground ginger. Set it over a clear fire and boil it for twenty-five minutes, then pour it into a deep dish to remain all night. The next day repeat the boiling for half an hour ; do this for five or six days, and then drain them free from moisture on a sieve reversed. Make a rich syrup with sugar, water, and three ounces of whole ginger, just bruised, put the lettuces again into a preserving-pan, pour the syrup over them, and boil them several times until the stalks become clear, taking care the syrup is sufficiently strong of the ginger. Blackberry Jam. Time, three-quarters of an hour. 688. To every quart of blackberries, allow a pound of loaf sugar and a wineglass of brandy. Crush a quart of fully ripe blackberries with a pound of the best loaf sugar pounded very fine, put it into a preserving-pan, and set it over a gentle fire until thick, add a glass of brandy, and stir it again over the fire for about a quarter of an hour ; then put it into pots, and when cold tie them over. Barberry Jam. Time, three-quarters of an hour the first day. 689. Three pounds of sugar to three pounds of barberries. Pick the fruit from the stalks, and put them into a jar with their weight of pounded loaf sugar, set the jar in a deep saucepan of boiling water until the sugar is dissolved and the barberries quite soft; then let them stand all night. The next day put them into a preserving-pan and boil them for a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes ; then put them into pots, tie them over, and set them in a dry place. Black Currant Jam. Time, three-quarters of an hour to an hour. 690. To every pound of currants allow three-quarters of a pound of sugar. Gather the currants when they are thoroughly ripe and dry, and pick them from the stalks. Bruise them lightly in a large bowl, and to every pound of fruit put three-quarters of a pound of finely-beaten loaf sugar ; put sugar and fruit into a pre- serving-pan, and boil them from three- quarters to one hour, skimming as the scum rises, and stirring constantly ; then put the jam into pots, cover them with brandy paper, and tie them closely over. Black Currant Jelly. Time, two hours. 691. To every five quarts of currants allow rather more than half a pint of water ; to every pint of juice one pound of loaf sugar. Gather the currants when ripe on a dry day, strip them from the stalks, and put them into an earthen pan, or jar, and to every five quarts allow the above proportion of water ; tie the pan over, and set it in the oven for an hour and a quarter; then squeeze out the juice through a coarse cloth, and to every pint of juice put a pound of loaf sugar, broken into pieces, boil it for three-quarters of an hour, skimming it well; then pour it into small pots, and when cold, put brandy papers over them, and tie them closely over. Bed Currant Jelly. Time, forty minutes. 692. To one quart of currant juice one pound of powdered lump sugar. Pick the currants from the stalks into a broad earthenware pan. To about one gallon of the picked currants put half a pound of sifted lump sugar. Put the sugar over the picked currants the day before you make the jelly. Set the currants over a slow fire to simmer gently for about twenty minutes ; the slower they simmer the greater quantity of juice they will discharge. There should be an equal quantity of red and white currants. When all the juice is discharged, strain it through a hair sieve, and then through a jelly bag while quite hot. Now to each quart of juice put one pound of powdered loaf sugar. Put it into a pre- serving pan, and set it over a quick stove to boil for twenty minutes. If any scum rises, skim it off. When done, put it into small white pots or little glasses, and cover it with brandied paper. Tie down. Orange Marmalade. Time, two hours and ten minutes. 693. Six pounds of Seville oranges ; eight pounds of loaf sugar. Take six pounds of Seville oranges ; cut the peel so as to make it peel off in four pieces. Put all the peels on the fire in a