( 11 ) (c.) Ibmur.—Hindu male, set. 30. Compound comminuted fracture, one month before admission, of lower third of femur. Lower fragment drawn behind and within upper, the end of which protruded through the skin outside of the knee-joint. Masses of dead femur removed, bone refractured and placed in better position. The wound was putrid on admission, and continued so after operation, though an attempt was made to render it aseptic. Septic suppuration with severe constitutional disturbance set in which eventually implicated the knee-joint rendering amputation of the thigh necessary. This operation was recently performed by Dr. Kaye under whose care the case came, and I understand that though the man was reduced to a state of extreme prostration before operation, he rallied to some extent but eventually succumbed having survived the amputation over a week. V.—Amputations.—A. For injury. 1. Primary of shoulder joint.—Mahomedan male, set. 32. Severe machinery accident. Eight arm and forearm thoroughly smashed. Amputation (primary) at shoulder joint, flaps ex- ternal and internal cut from without. Elastic cord did not command axillary sufficiently. A good deal of bleeding in consequence. Died of shock in two days. 2. Primary of forearm.—(a.) Hindu male, set. 36 ; hand smashed by machinery; forearm lacerated and partially decorticated: primary amputation of forearm—middle— antiseptic. Recovered; discharged in 34 days. (b.) Hindu female, set. 36. Jute mill accident; wrist, hand and lower part of forearm completely smashed: primary amputation at middle of forearm. Recovered; discharged in 26 days. Both these operations were performed under strict antiseptic precautions. Case (b) presented a typical antiseptic result— absence of inflammation, suppuration, putrefaction and con- stitutional disturbance and union of the flaps by first in- tention. In case (a) part of one of the flaps sloughed in conse- quence of original bruising, but the progress was satisfactory notwithstanding, and repair of the amputation wound rapid.