( 10 ) physitis of both elbow joints affecting all the epiphyses connected, with the joint. Sinuses led to surfaces of bare bone, and the joints felt like a bag of necrosed fragments. These sinuses closed up and recovery took place without resort to operation. 4. Incision of Imee-joint for suppurative synovitis.—A Hindu youth set. 18 years. Fours years ago he had syno- vitis after prolonged walking—of the left knee only. Was cured by aspirating in this hospital. A second attack was cured by rest only. On admission the joint was considerably swollen ; about S ounces of puriform fluid were drawn off by aspirator. Re-accumulation of fluid having taken place, an opening was made into the supra-patellar pouch with a knife under spray and about 4 ounces of pus let out. Dressed with carbolic gauze. This was done a month after his admission. The operation was followed by no constitutional disturbance. The dressings were changed every third or fourth day. The discharge gradually diminished in quantity, the dis- tension of the joint disappeared and he left the hospital after ten days with a stiff knee joint, but a serviceable limb. IV.—Partial excisions for necrosis. Ca). Lower jam.—Hindu male set. 40. Fourteen months ago he had suppuration of the gums on the left side. A month afterwards a swelling appeared near the angle of the lower jaw on the same side ; it burst and formed into a sinus. Another sinus formed soon after in the same situation. Both of them led to bare bone. Took mercury for rheumatism. After admission the opening (lowermost) was enlarged and almost the whole of the left ramus of the lower jaw removed in pieces. The wound healed up by granulation. Discharged in 81 days cured. (b.) Radius and ulna.—Hindu boy set. 8. Fell from a height of about 20 feet; sustained compound fracture of lower end of left humerus, and also of radius and ulna of the same side a little above the wrist. The wound of the arm healed up without much difficulty. Necrosed pieces of radius and ulna about an inch in length removed about sis weeks after the accident. Discharged with a stiff elbow after 164 days.