( 13 ) pulley and smashed. The phalanges removed under chloro- form : is still under treatment. 4. Primary of the thigh.—Hindu female, act. 40. Fell from a roof 22 ft. high. Colies’ fracture of right wrist; compound comminuted fracture of left femur ; fracture of lower jaw ; concussion. Amputation (primary) by modified circular me- thod at lower third of thigh. Died in 3 days of exhaustion. Full details of this case, which presented many points of special interest, will be found in the September (1879) number of the Indian Medical Gazette. 5. Secondary of the arm.—Hindu female, set. 18. Fell into the fire a month before admission in a fit. Amputation through middle of arm. Recovered. Discharged in 51 days. (Dr. Palmer). 6. For spreading traumatic gangrene.—Hindu male, ret. 40. Sloughing ulcers of right foot, extending. History of syphi- lis, mercury, drink and opium. Left leg amputated a few years ago for similar condition. Syme’s amputation per- formed; gangrene set in (traumatic spreading.) Amputa- tion above knee by long posterior and short anterior flap. Gangrene speedily supervened ; death in 3 days. Amputations for disease. 7. For malignant disease of the arm.—Hindu male set. 42. Severe bum of left arm and forearm at 6 years of age; epithelioma commenced two years ago, involved periosteum of inner condyle and fascia covering origins of muscles. Amputation antiseptically of lower third of arm by modified circular plan. Healed by primary adhesion. Discharged in 18 days. This amputation pursued a typical antiseptic course notwithstanding that, owing to tight bandaging, the stump cavity became distended with venous blood, and it was necessary, on the tjjird day, to open the wound and remove the clots which were creating tension and some constitutional disturbance ; these disappeared immediately on removal of the tension. 8. For malignant disease of the forearm.—Hindu male, set. 50. Epithelioma of wrist following injury sustained one year ago. Amputation by modified circular plan at upper