PRECIS OF OPERATIONS PERFORMED IN THE WARDS OF THE SECOND SUR- GEON, MEDICAL COLLEGE HOSPITAL, DURING THE YEAR 1879. By Surgeon-Major K. McLeod, A.M., M.D., Professor of Surgery, Calcutta Medical College. In recent discussions which have taken place regarding the comparative merits of different methods of surgical treatment as affecting more particularly the success of surgi- cal operations, two points have been indicated as specially desirable—first, the publication of surgical statistics and- second, the elucidation of these by means of brief abstracts of cases. It has been urged that isolated cases or selected groups of cases are apt to lend support to contracted views and par- tial inferences, and that broad and true deductions can only be rightly drawn from wide inductions collected without reservation or bias. It has, on the other hand, been remarked with truth and justice that the circumstances, etiological, hygienic and per. sonal, affecting the issue of surgical cases and operations vary so much that a mere numerical statement without some detail or explanation is useless or worse. Several eminent surgeons have of late placed the results of their operative practice on record, and the system is likely to become more common. Two difficulties occur, however, on the threshold of any attempt of this kind. The first is, that no common classifi- cation of operations is followed. Without something of this kind a comparison of particular operations may be made, but a comparison of totals is impossible. The second difficulty consists in the detailing of cases, as it is by no means easy to steer clear of the Scylla of meagreness and the Charybclis of prolixity. Some reporters have given abstracts of all cases—brief abstracts of the less important and fuller details of the more important. Others have omitted the former and given notes only of the more interesting and grave. The first method appears to be the better of the two, holding the main object of the record in view, namely, to supplement