ft C 8 ) (b.) Anchjlosvt of elbow joint.—An Ooria male, set. 31, about a year and half ago sustained compound fracture of the left forearm add severe lacerated wounds of the same. These were produced by the teeth of a crocodile. Profuse suppuration and sloughing ensued, and bits of necrosed bones came away. He kept his forearm in a straight position, i. e. in a line with the aim. On admission the left elbow was found ancliylosed. A few sinuses were situated in the middle of the forearm leading to necrosed bone. The muscles Were partially destroyed. The fingers were very weak. Put under chloroform, the elbow was bent forcibly to less than a right angle. During the procedure the bones of the forearm gave way as the union was not very firm. The forearm was put up in splints. The joint was forcibly moved under chloroform on two more occasions. The sinuses healed up. The bones united firmly. The movements of joints were much freer. There was slight inflammation of the joint after each forcible movement. Discharged after 79 days. (c.) Hindu girl set. 9 (married). Had small-pox two months ago, followed by several symmetrical abscesses about the shoulders and elbows. Both the elbows were stiffened, thickened and painful. A bit of the right acromion was found to be necrosed and was removed. The joints were forcibly moved under chloroform. Passive motion was afterwards regularly maintained. As the muscles were atrophied, they were stimulated by means of electricity. Discharged after 74 days, much improved. (d.) Anchylosis of knee-joint.—Mahomedan youth fet. 20. Had small-pox six months ago ; about a month afterwards two abscesses formed—one in each leg. The lower limbs were supported on pillows in a flexed condition. Since then the knees could not be stretched properly. Flexion of the knees complete ; they could be extended to. more than a right angle. The right knee freer in its movements than the left. The joints were completely stretched under chloro- form and put up in McIntyre’s splint. Gradual exten- sion by the same splint has been tried without benefit. There was slight effusion into the joint which soon disappeared. After a month he was allowed to walk about. Then he was