( 12 ) 3. Primary of parts of the hand.—(a.) A native male, set. 27, came in with smash of index, middle and right fingers and lacerated wound of the hand both on the dorsal and palmar aspects, and also of the thumb, its metacarpo- phalangeal joint being exposed. The ring finger was ampu- tated through its middle phalanx; the middle finger through its metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and the index finger through the metacarpal bone. The operation was performed under chloroform, with antiseptic precautions. The result was satisfactory, and patient was discharged after 39 days with a still thumb. (b.) A Hindustanee lad, set. 10, while working with a straw- cutting machine, injured his hand. There was compound dislocation of the first phalanx of the index finger and second phalanx of the middle. Extensive laceration of the soft structures ; a longitudinal lacerated wound on the ball of the thumb, the metacarpo-phalangeal joint being exposed. The index and middle fingers were removed with the greater part of the metacarpal bones under chloroform. The thumb, ring and little fingers were saved. Discharged after two months with a useful hand. (c.) A Mahomedan male, set. 30. Right hand caught be- tween the wheels of an oil-machine. The index finger almost entirely divided just at its middle, and its metacarpal bone fractured. The middle finger pulverised. The metacarpal bone of the ring finger was fractured, and there were lacerated wounds situated on the dorsal and palmar aspects of the hand communicating with the seat of fracture ; slight cut on the finger. The half of the index and whole of the middle fingers were removed under chloroform. The patient absconded after a month, the wounds being quite superficial. (d.) A Mahomedan adult male, set. 26. The two distal phalanges of the index and middle fingers crushed by a machine. There was also a lacerated wound on the dorsum of the hand. The first phalanges of the fingers were saved. Discharged after 34 days with slight power over the stumps. (e.) A Mahomedan adult, set. 35. Thumb entangled in a