( 9 ) subjected to another operation for the removal of bits of necrosed bone from left fibula and right radius. He was discharged almost completely cured in 75 days. (e) . Bengalee Brahmin, male, set. 52. Had inflammation of right knee seven months ago, which was followed by anchylosis. The joint was bent almost at right angles. Slight flexion and extension could be produced by a little forcible movement. He was put under chloroform and the joint stretched fully. The fibrous adhesions gave way. The limb was then put up in McIntyre’s splint in a straight position. The patient was very nervous, and was discharged at his own request with a comparatively straight limb in two days. (f) . Mahomedan male set. 40. Fifteen months ago he had a cut on the inner aspect of the left knee caused by an axe. Apparently the joint was laid open. There was suppuration in the joint as well as in the adjacent portions of thigh and leg. The wound healed up in four months, but the joint became anchylosed. It was fixed at an obtuse^ angle. Flexion and extension almost absent. For a few days by means of elastic bandage and Mc- Intyre’s splint the limb was kept extended (very slightly). After a week, finding the result to be not very satisfactory, the joint was forcibly stretched under chloroform. The patient objected to undergo the pain necessary for his cure, and left the hospital in twelve days somewhat improved. In addition to these cases the same plan of treatment, namely, forcible extension of stiff joints and liberation of adherent tendons under chloroform, was pursued in cases of compound fracture. The restoration of movement to the fingers in cases of thecal adhesion is a most satisfactory performance if forcible manipulation is resorted to while the adhesions are recent—as soon in fact as the inflam- matory condition causing them has subsided. All such manoeuvres are exquisitely painful, and should be invariably resorted to under chloroform, at any rate on the first two or three occasions. Case (c.) was one of several which came to hospital about the same time in which severe multiple abscesses followed attacks of small-pox. In two of them the abscesses were symmetrical; in one there had been epi-