( 7 ) compound dislocation of right knee caused by a bag of wheat having fallen on his thigh. The condyles of the femur protruded through a transverse wound behind the joint and the posterior tibial pulsation could not be felt until reduction had been effected. This was done under chloroform by extension. The wound was syringed out with carbolic lotion, two drainage tubes inserted, the wound stitched, an antiseptic dressing applied and the limb kept at rest by a splint. Rum and beef-tea were given frequent- ly and ice bags applied to the joint; temperature rose to 104-6° next morning. He had severe rigors and a pulse of 114. Drainage was free, and no accumulation took place in the joint. He was thirsty and feverish (103-6°) all day, and complaining of pain in the joint: discharge profuse. Symptom of collapse set in during the night, and prostration increased until he died of shock at 6J A. M. on the 14th. The discharge continued profuse, and was devoid of foetor to the last. 3. Extension of stiff joints. (a.) Anchylosis of shoulder.—Hindu male, set. 16, had an abscess in the left pectoral region, which pointed in the axilla, 7 months ago. It was opened imperfectly, hence resulted in a sinus. There was burrowing of matter in all directions. The abscess was cured by means of free drainage and free incisions. During the course of treatment he had an attack of erysipelas which extended along the left aim and involved the whole of the trunk. The left arm was kept constantly at his side. He was treated at home, and applied at the hospital for relief on account of a stiff shoulder. The left shoulder joint was found anchylosed. The arm could be raised from the side to a slight extent, and could be moved backwards and forwards. No rotation could be accom- plished. Under chloroform the joint was moved forcibly in almost every direction ; in doing so grating was detected. The head of the humerus was separate from the shaft, but there was no displacement. By passive motion the movements were rendered free. Discharged after a month much relieved though the movements of the shoulder were not restored to their full extent.