( 7 ) synovial membrane having undergone destruction. This condition may result from penetrating injury or inflammation, generally of a strumous kind, and is often the sequel of an open joint. In this case there is also generally thickening and contraction outside the joint as well. In case (a) stretching can generally be accomplished at once and to the full and without tearing. It is advisable to put the limb on a splint for a few days and then resort to regular passive movement. There is seldom, if ever, any irritation resulting from stretching in such cases. In case (b) the completeness of stretching will depend on the strength of the adhesions and the state of the skin. In some cases the joint can be fully stretched at once, in others the cure must be completed by the use of splints, weights, or elastic bandages. In all these cases there is tearing at the time, and more or less irritation for a few days after the operation. A second or third attempt may be made under chlo- roform and passive motion should be resorted to after rest. The treatment in case (c) will depend on the nature of the case, the position and extent of the cicatrix, &c. In case (d) more caution and time are required. They are amenable to mecha- nical extension, and some degree of movement can generally be restored. A more decided sensation of tearing is perceptible in these cases, and very often, especially in the case of the knee, a certain amount of dislocation results. Irritation of the joint is more pronounced in these cases, often requiring ice or lead. Perseverance in treatment however produces decided benefit, and even if movement is not restored, the joint can be placed in a more favourable position. In the case of joints which are the seat of actual disease, whether of an acute, sub-acute, or chronic kind, forcible stretching is to be avoided. The fore- going series presents two remarkable cases—one in which the popliteal skin gave way under excessive trac- tion ; antiseptic treatment was promptly adopted, and