C C ) acid according to the plan recommended by Dr. Palmer. (Vide Indian Medical Gazette, October 1877.) The bone softened and crumbled down, and was replaced by healthy granulations which subsequently cicatriced. While under treatment an abscess formed in the lachrymal sac which was followed by lachrymal fistula. The canaliculus was slit and duct, which was found to be strictured, gradually dilated. The fistula was cured by this means. 3. Excision of the eyeball with the rest of the contents of the orbit for glioma.—Hindu male, act. 4 ; seven months’ duration, tumour of eyeball and behind it. Ball extirpated and orbit cleared out. Chloride of zinc (40 grains to 1 oz.) applied ; wound dressed with boracic acid ointment spread on thin muslin. Healed up satisfactorily. Left hospital 23 days after operation. II. 1.—Ligature of temporal artery.—A Manilla seaman, mt. 60, got a severe lacerated wound of his forehead by the fall of a plank on his head. Profuse arterial bleeding oc- curred which continued after his admission. A vessel was tied in the wound, but the bleeding continuing and the tissues being very pulpy, the anterior branch of the super- ficial temporal was cut down on and ligatured, which com- pletely stayed the haemorrhage. The wound healed up satisfactorily. III. 1.—Dislocation of hip-joint. (a.) A Mahomedan male, set. 65, was knocked down by a bullock; the hip-joint was dislocated backwards, head of femur resting on dorsum ilii. Came to hospital a week after the accident. Dislocation reduced under chloroform by manipulation. The bone subsequently escaped from the acetabulum. (Dr. Palmer.) (&.) Mahomedan boy, set. 9, sustained dislocation of the head of the right femur into the sciatic notch about a month ago. Put under chloroform and the dislocation reduced by manipulation ; the limb kept in position by splint and exten- sion. There was slight prominence of the right trochanter major after reduction, but the shortening and inversion were corrected. 2. Compound dislocation of knee-joint.—A Hindu labourer, set. 38, was brought to hospital on 12th November with