TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 109 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. a few days, so as to lie well flavoured with the truffles. When ready for cooking, wrap the birds separately in sheets of buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire for half-an hour. Pour 2qts. of white sauce into a saucepan with 1 pint of veal broth, put it over the fire, and when it boils put in a few thinly-sliced French truffles and 1 scant teaspoonful of sugar. Stir and boil it until thickly reduced, then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of whipped cream. When cooked, take the birds out of the sheets of paper, put them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve while very hot. Roasted Partridges a la Sybarite.—Singe and draw two Partridges and bone two snipe. Put the livers of the Par- tridges and snipe in a mortar, having previously fried them, add the peel of two raw truffles and a piece of beef marrow, and pound them. Season the mixture, and pass all through a fine hair sieve; cut the peeled truffles into dice, and mix it with the above. Sprinkle some pepper and salt inside the snijie, put a small quantity of the mixture on each, roll them up, put one in each of the Partridges, and fill the crops with the remainder of the preparation. Cut two squares out of some pig’s caul, and wrap the birds in them, previously sprinkling a little salt over them. The Partridges should not be cooked till the following day. Run a thin iron skewer through them, fix them on the spit, bind a sheet of buttered paper round each, and roast them in front of a clear fire. They will take about twenty minutes to cook. When cooked, take them off the spit, remove the paper, put them on a hot dish, pour some rich gravy that has been reduced to half- glaze over them, and serve. Roasted Partridges Stuffed with Truffles.—Singe and draw two young red Partridges. Peel six black truffles, cut them in quarters, and sprinkle salt and pepper over them. Chop the livers of the Partridges that have been cooked with two chickens’ livers, an equal quantity of fat bacon, and the trimmings of the truffles ; put the mince in a mortar, pound it, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put some bacon-fat in a frying-pan, and when melted put in the truffles ; toss them about over the fire for two or three minutes, then mix them with the force- meat, and stuff the Partridges with it; truss them, run a skewer through them, tie them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire, basting occasionally with butter. When the birds are cooked (they will take from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to their size), sprinkle salt over, and put them on a hot dish. Mix a little gravy in the drippings, skim the fat off, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Garnish the Partridges with slices of lemon, and serve them with the sauce in a sauceboat. Salmis of Partridge.—(1) Truss three perfectly fresh Par- tridges as for roasting, put them in a saute-pan with a little butter, and brown them over a brisk fire. Leave them till half cold, then cut the wings and legs off', and separate the breasts; pare and trim each piece. Put the carcases, trimmings, and some fat bacon in a stewpan, and with them prepare a little rich gravy. Fry the livers in butter, then put them in a mortar, and pound them; add them to some brown sauce, stir it over the fire till hot, then skim and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put it again in the saucepan, strain the gravy in, turn the limbs of the Partridges in, and warm them. Arrange the six legs on a hot dish, put the six wings on them, and the three breasts at the top. Put some croutons of fried bread, mushrooms, and truffles round the dish, pour the sauce into a sauceboat, and serve. (2) Clean and truss five rather stale young Partridges, cover them with paper, and roast them underdone. Carve the birds as when served at table, flay them so as not to leave a particle of skin, and trim them nicely. Put four shallots, some small pieces of ham, one carrot cut in dice, three or four mushrooms, a bunch of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, three or four cloves and peppercorns, and a little allspice in a stewpan with some butter, and fry Partridges—continued. them lightly; then pour in 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira, 6 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of broth, and the lungs and skins of the birds. Stand the stewpan by the side of the fire, and let the contents stew for an- liour-and-a-half; then skim the fat off, and put in a small piece of sugar to lessen the bitter taste of the lungs. Put the flayed limbs of the Partridges in a stewpan, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over them, and stand the stewpan in a bain-marie. Cut some slices of bread in the shape of a kite, and fry them in butter; then drain and arrange them on a hot dish, turn the salrnis over them, and serve. (3) Cut three cold roasted Partridges into pieces, trim them, and put them in a stewpan. Place the bones and trimmings in a mortar, pound them, turn them into a stewpan with 4 pint each of Madeira and mirepoix, and boil it quickly till reduced to half its original quantity; then pour in 1^ pints of Spanish sauce, and let it simmer for an hour. Skim the fat off the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve, pour half of it in the stewpan with the pieces of Partridges, and stand them over the fire till thoroughly hot. Arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with glazed croutons of fried bread, pour the remainder of the sauce in a sauceboat, and serve. (4) Put 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till mixed, but do not allow them to brown. Pour in some red wine and stock mixed in equal quantities, a bunch of sweet herbs, one shallot, and pepper and salt to taste, and simmer gently for half-an-hour. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put in some ccoked Partridges cut into joints and fillets, and let the sauce simmer without boiling; then squeeze in the juice of one. lemon, keeping back the pips. Put the Partridges on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with croiitons of fried bread, and serve. (5) Lard and roast three Partridges, keeping them rather underdone. Let them get cold, then skin and cut them into pieces. Put them in a stewpan with a few shallots and a small piece of lemon-peel, moisten with a few spoonfuls of good broth and about 4 breakfast cupful of reduced Spanisli sauce, and stew very slowly over a smothered fire. When the liquor has reduced to half its original quantity, take out the pieces of Partridges, and mix in with the sauce 1 table-spoonful of aspic jelly. Put the stewpan over ice, and shake it occasionally until the sauce begins to set; then dip each piece of Partridge in separately, so that the sauce may adhere all over. Arrange them tastefully on a dish, pour what is left of the sauce over them, garnish with croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. (6) Prepare and roast three Partridges, keeping them rather underdone; leave them until cold, theri skin and cut them into pieces. Put 2 wineglassfuls of claret or other red wine into a stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, the juice and grated peel of one lemon, and a seasoning of salt and pepper, with a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put the Partridges in the sauce, and keep them at the side of the fire until very hot. When ready, turn the salmis on to a hot dish, and serve without delay. (7) Lard three Partridges and roast them, keeping them rather underdone and basting frequently with butter. °Leave them until cold, then trim off' the skin, cut them into pieces, lay them in a stewpan, pour over a small quan- tity of good broth, and put the pan over a smothered fire so that the contents will not boil too quickly. Put in six shallots, a small piece of lemon-peel, and 1 tea- cupful of reduced Spanish sauce, and stew slowly until the liquor has reduced to half its original quantity; then take out the pieces of Partridges and lay them on a hot dish with a crouton of fried bread between each. Pour the sauce round them, squeeze over a small quantity of lemon-juice, and serve. J (8) Prepare and roast three Partridges, and when cooled cut them into pieces. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir them over the lire until mixed, but do not brown them; next put in two