189 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pike—continued. cooked, turn the pain on to a hot dish, pour over it some reduced bechamel sauce, that has been coloured with cray- fish butter and mixed with a few cut crayfish-tails, and serve the pain with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Pike Cheese (Pain) with Truffles.—Prepare a quenelle forcemeat with ljlb. of Pike flesh, Jib. of ground rice panada, 14oz. of butter, and the yolks of four or five eggs. Thickly butter a cylinder-mould and garnish the sides with some peeled and cooked truffles, fill it with the forcemeat, and poach it in the bain-marie. In three- quarters-of-an-liour take the mould out of the bain-marie, turn the contents out on a dish, with a fried bread support in the centre, and pour some fish sauce that has been reduced with trimmings of truffles in the dish ; garnish a silver skewer with shrimps, stick it in the bread, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Pike Cutlets with Tomato Sauce.—Mix with lib. of raw Pike flesh Jib. of butter, and chop and pound them to- gether. Season the mixture, and mix with it the beaten yolks of two eggs, and a little more than J teacupful of stiffly-reduced bechamel sauce. Shape the forcemeat into cutlets on a floured table, egg-and-breadcrumb them, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides in clarified butter. Put them on a hot dish, pour tomato sauce over, and serve. Pike Forcemeat.—Cut off the fillets of a cold boiled Pike, rub them through a fine hair sieve, weigh them, and to every pound of fish add lOoz. of bread panada and lOoz. of butter; mix well, season with salt and pepper, stir in two beaten eggs, and moisten with reduced veloutd sauce maigre, thickened with egg. When of the proper con- sistency for forcemeat, it is ready for use. Pike Forcemeat Cooked as a Whole Pish.—Select a rather large Pike, remove the gills, and chop the end off the tail; cut off the flesh of the fish, leaving only a small quantity on the backbone, but with the head and tail still attached to it. Finely mince the flesh of the Pike with an equal quantity of flesh off another one. Put a finely-chopped onion in a stewpan with a good-sized lump of butter, and stir it over the fire till cooked, but without browning it; mix the onion and butter with the fish, also 1 breakfast- cupful of grated breadcrumbs, and season the mixture with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Mix in sufficient beaten egg to bind the whole to a stiff paste. Thickly butter a baking-dish, lay in the skeleton of the fish, and cover it with the forcemeat, smoothing it over to the shape of the fish with the blade of a knife. Brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, cover with grated breadcrumbs and Parmesan cheese, and moisten with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Fasten a piece of paper round the head and tail of the fish, Fig. 242. Pike Forcemeat Cooked as a Whole Fish. put it into a moderate oven, and bake. When the fish is cooked, place it carefully on a table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish (see Fig. 242), and serve with a sauceboatful of any kind of fish sauce and parsley garnish. Pike Soup.—Cut 21b. of Pike into small pieces, removing all the skin and bones. Put 4oz. of well-washed rice in a large saucepan with plenty of water and a lump of salt, and boil it until very soft. Place the fish in a frying-pan with plenty of butter, and toss it about over the fire until cooked. Next chop the fish finely, put it in a mortar Pike—continued. with the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and pound them until smooth. Stir the pounded mixture in with the rice, add as much more water as will be required to make the soup, season to taste with salt and pepper, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put in a couple of ounces of butter broken into small pieces, and boil the soup up. When ready, pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve it with sippets of toast or small croiitons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. Any other flavouring liked may be added to the soup. Potted Pike.—Having cleaned and scalded the fish, cut off the head, split it down the back, and take out the bone. Season the inside with bay-salt and pepper, roll it up tightly, put it in a baking-tin with butter, cover it, and bake for one hour. When cooked, take it out, drain, and leave it till cold. Put the Pike in a jar, cover it with clarified butter, and tie the jar over with paper. Quenelles of Pike and Mushrooms.—Mix with 41b. of chopped and pounded Pike-flesh 2Jlb. of bread panada and Jib. of fresh butter; season them, and pound all to- gether, adding gradually, one at a time, the yolks of three eggs. Pass the forcemeat through a fine hair sieve into a kitchen basin, smooth it, and try a little piece in boiling water. Mould the forcemeat into quenelles with 2 table- spoons, put them side by side in a flat buttered stew- pan, and poach them in boiling salted water. Turn eighteen or twenty button mushrooms, and cook them in lemon-juice and butter. With the bones and trimmings of the Pike, trimmings of mushrooms, chopped vegetables, and some Avhite wine prepare a fish gravy; strain the gravy, skim the fat off, and stir in gradually with it 3 tea- cupfuls of reduced white sauce and the liquor of the mush- rooms. Thicken the sauce Avith the yolks of two or three eggs, and strain it through a fine silk sieve; stir it over the fire again, and mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of butter, but do not let it boil. Arrange the quenelles in a circle on a hot dish, put the mushrooms in the centre, pour a little of the sauce over, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Rissoles of Pike.—Prepare a little Pike quenelle forcemeat. Roll out some short-paste that has been prepared with lib. of flour and lOoz. of butter, and cut some rounds out of it with a fluted tin-cutter, 2in. in diameter. Put on the Fig. 243. Rissoles of Pike. centre of each flat of paste a little ball of the forcemeat; damp the edges of the flats, and fold them in such a manner that the forcemeat is completely enclosed. Dip the rissoles in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in clarified butter over a slow fire. When cooked, put the rissoles on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-cover on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 243), and serve. Roasted Pike.—(1) Peel 1 pint of shrimps, chop them, and mix with them one onion and one sprig of parsley, both chopped, and some breadcrumbs; season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and mix all well together with Jib. of butter. Clean the Pike, stuff it with the mixture, and spread some over the outside. Put the Pike in a cradle- spit and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting fre- quently with butter. When cooked (it will take "about lialf-an-hour), put the fish on a folded napkin or orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish round with parsley, and serve. (2) The fish should be perfectly fresh when used ; draw out the inside through the gills, chop the liver as finely as possible, mix with it lib. of butter, a few chopped pickled oysters and boned and chopped anchovies, powdered sweet herbs, parsley, mace, and salt to taste. Stuff the fish with the mixture, sew it up carefully to keep in the