36 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. pans, line them with puff paste, half fill each with the Orange mixture, anil hake in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the cakes out of the tins, and arrange them on a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper spread over a dish. (2) Blanch and skin Jib. of almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound finely, pouring in every now and then a few drops of Orange-flower water. Warm lib. of butter, being careful not to oil it, then beat it well together with Jib. of caster sugar. Boil one fresh and two candied Oranges to draw out the bitterness, then drain and pound them in a mortar till quite smooth. Beat the yolks of ten eggs and the whites of four, then mix all the ingredients together. Fill some patty-pans with the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the cakes out of the tins, leave them till cold, arrange them on a fancy dish, and serve. Orange Chips.—Cut some Seville Oranges into halves and squeeze out all the juice, which strain through a fine sieve; remove all the pulp from the rinds, and steep them in water for an hour or two. Afterwards drain the rinds and boil them in plenty of water until tender; drain, cut the rinds into shreds, put them in a stewpan, pour the juice over, add an equal weight of loaf sugar, and place them over a gentle lire. Stir the chips frequently until they candy, then put them in a cool larder and leave until quite dry, which will take nearly a month. When ready, the chips should be kept for use in wide- mouthed bottles. Orange Cordial. —Cut twelve medium-sized bitter Oranges into slices, put them in a vessel, and pour over 3qts. of rectified spirit and 1 pint of Orange-flower water; close the vessel, taking care that no air can enter, and let it remain for ten days; then add 51b. of clarified syrup, lqt. of water, and sufficient tincture of saffron to colour. Cover the vessel again, sealing it as before, and let it remain for fourteen days. Run the liquor through a jelly-bag, let it settle, pour it from the lees, bottle, and use as required. Orange Cream.—(1) Put the peel from six large Oranges into a bottle containing 2 pints of brandy, and let it infuse for a couple of weeks. Put 21b. of sugar into a basin with 1 pint of water, and when it has dissolved add it to the brandy, together with 1 pint of boiling skimmed milk. Let it remain for a day, then filter it through filtering-paper, pour it into bottles, cork down, and use when required. (2) Boil the peel of a Seville Orange for a, few minutes, changing the water frequently so as to extract the bitter taste. Pound it to a pulp in a mortar, and add J I b. of caster sugar beaten to a smooth paste, together with the yolks of four eggs, as well as the strained juice of the Orange and 1 table-spoonful of brandy. Turn it into a basin, beating it well for about twelve minutes, then add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling cream, and stir until it is quite cohl. Turn it into custard-glasses, and serve. Oranges—continued. (3) Peel the yellow rinds off two Seville Oranges as thinly as possible; beat the yolks of eight eggs well, turn them into a lined saucepan with lqt. of fresh milk and the rinds of the Oranges, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and stir the whole over a moderate fire until thickened, but do not let it boil. Next stir in with the custard loz. of gelatine that has been dissolved in a small quantity of warm water, and the juice of the two Oranges. Rinse a mould out with cold water, strain the custard into it, and place it in a cool temperature or on ice. Previous to serv- ing, dip the mould quickly into warm water to loosen the contents, wipe it, and turn the cream on to a fancy dish. (4) Mix together 21b. of loaf sugar, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and J pint of water; set it in a stewpan over a moderate fire, keeping it closely covered till when a little of it is tried in cold water it forms a jelly. Stir into it then a flavouring of bitter Orange extract and the grated rinds of two Oranges; directly these are added, take the pan from the fire, let it stand closely covered for ten minutes, and beat to a smooth stiff cream with a small wooden spatula. When beaten as stiff as soft dough, turn it out on a paste- board and work it with the hands; form it into balls, and cover them with chocolate. (5) Put the grated yellow rinds of one-and-a-lialf Seville Oranges into a jar together with lib. of loaf sugar, the strained juice of six Seville Oranges, and 1 pint of the best brandy; cork the jar well, and let it stand for three days, shaking it twice each day. At the end of the three days, boil 1 pint of fresh milk warm from the cow, and stir it hot into the mixture in the jar. Cover it closely, and when quite cold strain it through a flannel bag; bottle it, seal the corks, and lay the bottles on their sides in saw- dust. It will be fit for use in a week, but will keep longer. It is a nice flavouring for trifles, &c., and mixed with ice- water makes a nice summer drink. (6) Thinly peel the yellow rind off a Seville Orange, and boil it; when the rind is tender, which can be told by pass- ing a straw through it, drain, and put it in a mortar; beat it until fine, then mix in Jib. of loaf sugar and beat again until the sugar is fine. Whip the yolks of four eggs with the juice of the Orange and J wineglassful of the best brandy, and mix them with the other ingredients; stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling cream, and beat the whole until cold. Pour the cream into custard-cups, stand them in a deep dish, pour round boiling water to half their height, and let them remain in it until the water is cold. Ornament the top of each custard with small pieces of preserved fruits or peel, and serve. Orange Cream-Ice.—(1) Put the rinds of two Oranges rubbed off with fib. of sugar into a saucepan, add the yolks of eight eggs, the juice of six Oranges, and a little salt, and stir well over the fire until the mixture thickens, working it briskly ; then pour it into a mould packed in ice, freeze, and when wanted turn out on to a dish and serve very cold. (2) Rub a few lumps of sugar on the peel of an Orange, put them into a saucepan with the juice of four Oranges, and pour over lgall. of cream. Stir well over the fire, add sufficient caster sugar to sweeten, and when it begins to get thick pour into moulds, freeze, and it is ready for use. (3) Squeeze the juice from seven Oranges and one lemon into a sieve placed over a saucepan, and add ljoz. of ising- glass and sufficient water to make the liquor 3 breakfast- cupfuls in all. Rub off the peels of the Oranges and lemon with 4oz. of loaf sugar, put it into the saucepan with the juice, and boil for twelve minutes or so. Pass it through a fine strainer or muslin bag into a basin, and when quite cold work it well into 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Pour it into a mould dipped in cold water or well oiled, packed in ice, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (4) Rub Jib. of loaf sugar over the yellow rinds of several Oranges until each lump is well saturated with it, then put them in a lined stewpan with 1 pint of milk and the thinly-pared rinds of two more Oranges, and boil them for a few minutes. Strain the milk, return it to the stewpan with the beaten yolks of six eggs, and stir it at the edge of the fire until thickened, but it must not boil