TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 50 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Orgeat—continued. to taste, put in a pan over the fire, and let it boil once ; take it from the lire and stir till cold. Strain, and add to it b vine<4] assful of brandy before using. (5) Put lib. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds into a basin, pour over sufficient boiling water to cover, slip them out of their skins, put them in a mortar, and pound, moisten- ing with 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water. Then mix with the pounded almonds 1 pint of spring-water and 1 pint of rose-water. Strain the mixture through a cloth, squeezing the almonds quite dry. Have 3 pints of clarified sugar boiled to that degree that when the finger is dipped in "the sugar when it has sufficiently cooled and then into cold water, the sugar will crack as the finger is moved in the water (see Sugar boiling). When the 3 pints of syrup are boiled to this degree, put in the almonds, and let them boil in the syrup for one minute. Remove it from the fire, let it stand till cold, then put it into small bottles and cork them air-tight. When required for use, shake the hottle, put 1 table-spoonful of the syrup into a tumbler, and fill up with spring-water. Orgeat Cream Ices.—Rlanch ,} 11 >. of sweet and ten bitter almonds, and pound them in a mortar with a little milk. When they are reduced to a pulp, put it into a saucepan with lqt. of cream and the yolks of ten eggs, set the pan on the fire, and as soon as it is of the required consistence pour it through a fine sieve; add sufficient caster sugar to sweeten, turn it into the freezer and then into moulds shaped like various fruits packed in ice. When set, turn these out on to a dish covered with an ornamental paper, and serve with sweet biscuits round (see Fig. 63). Orgeat Paste.—Blanch twenty-four bitter almonds and lib. of sweet ones, put them into a mortar, and pound to a very fine paste, adding a little orange-flower water to prevent them oiling; then work into this paste its own weight of powdered white sugar. This paste may be kept a long time, and is useful for making Orgeat quickly; which may be done by mixing 1 pint of water with 2oz. of the paste, and when the paste is thoroughly dissolved straining it. Orgeat Syrup.—(1) Blanch and pound Soz. of sweet and 2|oz. of bitter almonds in a mortar with 12oz. of sugar and 2oz. of water. Mix in 24oz. more water, strain, pressing through as much as possible; add to this 2|lb. more sugar and let it dissolve with gentle heat. Pour in lastly 4oz. of orange- flower water, strain again, stir well, and in a week’s time bottle. This syrup should not be diluted, as it is very liable to frequent fermentations, and then both salicylic acid and borax would have to be used to check it. In America there is a beverage called Orgeat lemonade, made by mixing the syrup with lemon-juice and ice. (2) Blanch lib. of sweet and 4oz. of bitter almonds, put them into a mortar with 2oz. of orange-flower water, and pound them well, adding gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Put the paste into a cloth, and strain into a basin by twisting very tightly; macerate the residue with more water, and continue in this way until another pint has been Used. Strain the whole once more through a cloth into a saucepan, add 31b. of loaf sugar, and boil for a few minutes. Strain again, and let the liquor cool, stirring it two or three times a day for seven days. Bottle and use as re- quired. It should be shaken occasionally if it is inclined to settle or separate into flocks. Orgeat—continued. Orgeat Tablets.—Blanch 4oz. of sweet almonds and pound them in a mortar to a paste, adding a few drops of orange- llower water to prevent them oiling. Clarify lib. of double- refined sugar, and boil it to the feather (see Sugar boiling) ; put the pounded almonds in the sugar and boil it to the feather degree again. Take the pan off the fire, rub the sugar against the sides until it becomes glossy, then stir it in the middle. Line a shallow pan with stout cartridge- paper, and pour the syrup into it. When slightly cooled, mark the syrup into tablets with a knife; when cold, snap the tablets asunder in the places where they are marked, and put them in bottles or tins for use. Orgeat Water.—Blanch and pound 8oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, and put them into a basin with lqt. of water. A little water should be poured in whilst pounding to prevent them oiling. Add a little orange-flower water and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Stir well, and when it is well mixed, strain through a fine hair sieve into a basin or howl packed in ice, and it is ready for use. ORLEANS PUDDING.—See Puddings. ORLYS.—See Horlies. ORMERS.—This is the name given to certain shell- fish which are found on the rocks round the coast of Jersey. They have but one shell, very beautifully coloured on the outside and tinted with silver in the inside. Fig. 64. Ormer-shell. Ormers are shaped something like the human ear (see Fig. 64), hence they are commonly known as sea-ears. They are considered great delicacies, and may.either be prepared and dressed as scallops, or pickled as follows: Clean the required number of Ormers, beat them with a cutlet-bat until they are quite tender, and put them into a saucepan with some water so that there will be sufficient to cover them after they have boiled. Add a few white peppers, slices of whole ginger, and bay-leaves; place the pan on the fire, boil the contents gently for four hours, add salt and vinegar to taste, and they are then ready for use. If wanted to be kept for any length of time, more vinegar should be added; or the liquor in which they were cooked may be strained off and sufficient vinegar poured over to cover them, and cooked for a few minutes longer. ORRIS, or ORRICE.—This word is a corruption of Iris, a well-known genus of plants. The rootstock of Iris florenthia and Iris gennanica (see Fig. 65), known in commerce as Orris-root or Orrice-root, has an odour resembling that of violets, and is used as a substitute for that flower. The oil of Orris-root is frequently em- ployed in the manufacture of so-called raspberry essence.