THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 123 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred, to, see under their special heads. Patties—continued. 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix it to a smooth paste with cold water; roll the paste out to a moderate thickness and with a tin cutter about 2in. in diameter cut it into rounds. Peel and slice some raw potatoes, cut them into small pieces, mix with them an equal quantity of raw meat, also cut into small pieces, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of sweet herbs and finely-chopped onions. Spread the mixture over half of each of the Patties, double the other half over, moisten the edges slightly with water, and pinch them together. Brush over the top of the Patties with a paste-brush dippc ;1 in beaten egg, lay them on a baking-tin, and bake for twenty minutes. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the Patties on it, garnish with parsley, and serve; or they may be served cold. Dresden Patties.—(1) Take Alb. of any kind of cold boiled fish, trim off the skin and bone, and chop the fish fine. Put loz. of butter into a fiat stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, stir over the fire until mixed, then pom- in 1 teacupful of milk, and continue stirring. Put the fish into the boiling milk, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew gently at the side of the fire for fifteen minutes. Cut two large rounds of bread about 4in. in diameter and 1 Ain. in thickness, and with a 3in. tin-cutter cut half-way through each. Dip the rounds well in cream, then drain, and dip them in well-beaten egg. Season a small plate of finely-grated breadcrumb with salt and pepper and roll the rounds in them, giving a good coating. Put a large lump of clarified fat or lard into a frying- pan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the rounds and fry them until lightly browned. Take them out of the fat until a slice, and put them on a sheet of kitchen-paper to drain for a few minutes. Lift off the inner round of bread with a sharp knife, and scoop out from the centre of the large round all the soft bread. Fill the hollows with the fish mixture, and put the small rounds of bread on the top. Place the Patties on a hot dish c rer which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve while very hot. (2) Cut some thick slices off a stale household loaf and stamp them with a fluted tin cutter; dip each in cream, hollow out the centres, then dip them in beaten yolk of egg; sprinkle raspings over them, put them in a frying- pan with a little fresh butter, and fry a golden brown. When done, drain oil' all the fat, fill them with a hot savoury mince of meat or poultry, put them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Fontange Patties.—Stir up with 4oz. of flour the yolks of three or four eggs, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 teacupful of olive oil; mix with this IA teacupfuls of beer and warm water mixed in equal quantities ; put a cloth over the basin, and keep it in a warm place for two hours, then pour the batter into a stewpan. Warm in boiling fat an iron mould, made for this purpose, of the shape of a little timbale; when hot, dip it nearly, but not quite, to the rim in the batter, take it out again immediately, plunge it into the boiling fat, and leave till the batter is cooked ; then remove it from the mould and proceed as before till all the batter is used. Prepare a salpipon with poultry-meat, pickled tongues, brains, and mushrooms, thicken it with a little sauce, fill the batter shells with it, arrange them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Fried Patties.—Finely chop three or four slices of cold roasted veal and six oysters; mix with them 1 teacupful of bread- crumbs, a little finely-chopped lemon-peel, and the strained liquor of the oysters, and season to taste with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Put the above mixture in a small stewpan, stir it over the fire till hot, but do not let it boil, then take it off and leave to cool. Roll some puff paste out thin, cut it into rounds with a tin cutter 4in. in di- ameter, put a small quantity of the mince in the centre of each of one half of them, fold the round of paste over, damp the edges, pinch them together with the fingers with a twisting motion, and fry till nicely browned; then brush over with beaten egg and put them in the oven for a few minutes. Patties—continued. Arrange the Patties on a folded napkin or ornamental paper on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Lent Fatties.—Make fifteen small puff-paste Patties as for Patties a la Yol-au-Vent, and bake them. When done, take them off the baking-sheet, empty the pans, and keep the Patties warm. Beat fifteen eggs, and season them with salt and a little grated nutmeg. Peel and cut into small dice three raw truffles, put them in a saucepan with a small lump of butter, and warm them. Pour the beaten eggs in with the truffles, add a little more butter, broken in little pieces, and stir them over a slow fire till thick. Mix 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce with the above ingre- dients, take them oft’ the fire, fill the Patties with the mixture, arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Patties a la Dauphine.—Roll out 1 Alb. of brioche paste four times, then with a round tin cutter, 2in. in diameter cut out of this forty round flats; put in the centre of each one of half of the rounds a small ball of croquette prepara- tion, then put the other rounds on top, and moisten and pinch the edges together; cut them again with the same tin cutter to make them round. Spread a floured cloth on a baking-sheet, arrange the Patties on it a short distance from each other, cover with a floured cloth, and keep them in a warm temperature for thirty-five minutes; then put them, a few at the time, in boiling fat, and fry till nicely browned. When cooked, drain the Patties in a cloth, pile them on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Patties a la Financiere.—Butter twelve fluted Patty-pans rather high in shape, line them with short-paste, then with paper, fill them with flour, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, remove the paper and flour, coat them inside with a thin lave of forcemeat, and set them at the entrance of the oven to keep warm. Roll out some puff paste, and cut twelve rounds out of it the same size as the inside of the Patty; brush over with beaten egg, mark lines across the top with a sharp-pointed knife, and bake till lightly browned. Prepare a mixture of little collops of fat livers and truffles, some cocks’ combs, and small quenelles; put it in a saucepan with a little reduced brown sauce and warm thoroughly, but do not let it boil. Fill the Patties with the mixture, previously turning them out of the pan ; put on the covers of puff paste, arrange them on a folded napkin, garnish with parsley, and serve hot or cold. See Fig. 173. Patties a la Toulouse.—Boil some calf’s brains, and when cold cut them into small cubes. Mix with them an equal quantity of cold cooked chicken-flesh, also cut into small cubes, and add a few sliced mushrooms. Prepare a white sauce, mix it with the meat, and keep it hot to fill the Patties as wanted. Patties a la Vol-au-Vent.—Roll out a piece of puff' paste to about |in. in thickness, cut out some rounds with a tin biscuit-cutter about 2Ain. in. diameter, then take a smaller cutter about Hin. in diameter, and cut nearly but not quite through in the centre of each one ; put them on a baking-dish, and bake in a quick oven. The paste rises, and the inside becomes a lid that may be lifted out with the point of a knife. Trim off the surplus paste from the inside, fill them with whatever has been prepared for them, put the lids on, and decorate them with a sprig of parsley. Russian Patties.—Divide 6oz. of sweetbread into small pieces, and put them in a stewpan with 2qts. of water and a small lump of salt. Boil till tender, then drain on a