38 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. Oranges coloured in this way are a great improvement on the ordinary way of serving them. (2) Peel the Oranges, and with a sharp knife trim oil' all the white pith; slice them, and put them in layers in a glass dish, alternating each layer with a layer of grated cocoa nut and a dust of caster sugar. Strew plenty of grated cocoa nut on the top, pour 1 or 2 wineglassfuls of sherry over the Oranges, and stand the dish on ice for an hour or two before serving. (3) Select some fine China Oranges, peel them, and carefully trim off the pith, taking care not to cut through. Pass a double thread through the centre of each Orange. Whisk the whites of two eggs with lib. of caster sugar for twenty minutes. Hold the Oranges by the thread, and dip them into the beaten eggs and sugar, giving them a good coating. Pass a very thin stick through the Oranges in place of the thread, and fix them where they will dry quickly. Arrange the Oranges on a glass dish, and serve. Orange Drops.—(1) Rub off as much Orange-rind as will flavour about 2lb. of sugar made into drops. Put 21b. of rather coarsely-sifted sugar, that is without fine powder, into a basin, scrape off and add the Orange sugar, and stir in gradually sufficient water to make a paste that will drop from the spoon without sticking to >lt. Put this into a sugar-pan and add a little yellow colouring of saffron, set the pan on a ring on the stove, and stir well until the sugar is dissolved and makes a slight noise. Remove from the stove when about to boil, drop small lumps on cartridge paper or tin, and set them in the drying closet for about two hours. Pack them in tins or boxes. The sugar-pan should have a spout to the right, and when held in the left hand it is easy enough, with a piece of wire in the right, to chop off the preparation to the required size while being poured slowly out. (2) Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, beat it to a cream, and add the same quantity of sugar, the zest (rind) of four Oranges, and eight eggs one at a time. Peat well between every addition, and then sprinkle in 14oz. of flour. When thoroughly mixed, pour into small round tins, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Turn the drops out on to a dish, and they are ready for use when quite cold. Orange Extract.—Cut the thinly-pared rinds of three bitter Oranges into shreds, put them into a bottle, then pour in 1 pint of brandy or whisky, and cork it tightly. Shake the bottle frequently for the first four or five weeks. This extract will keep for years. Orange Pool.—Squeeze the juice out of five or six Oranges, and strain and beat it up with three eggs and 1 pint of cream; sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with moderate quantities of grated nutmeg and powdered cinnamon. Pour the mixture into a lined stewpan, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, but do not let it boil. When ready, pour into a glass dish, and serve when quite cold. Orange Fritters.—(1) Peel the Oranges, cut them in halves, pick out the seeds, and with a sharp knife scrape off all Oranges—continued. the white pith; put them in a basin together with some caster sugar and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of brandy, and leave them for an hour or two, afterwards draining them on a sieve. \\ arm and beat 2oz. of butter, beat also the yolks of two eggs, mix them together with the butter in fib- of flour, and stir in gradually with a wooden spoon sufficient tepid water to mix the whole into a smooth batter. \\ bisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them lightly with the batter at the last moment. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat into a flat stew- pan, and place it over the fire until boiling; dip the pieces of Orange into the batter, coating them well, and fry in the boiling fat until nicely browned. Then take them out, and put them on a sheet of kitchen paper in front of the fire to drain for a minute or two. Sinead a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the fritters upon it, sift caster sugar over (see Fig. 53), and serve. (2) Peel the Oranges, remove all the white pith, and divide them carefully into quarters. Make the following syrup : Beat the white of an egg into 1 i, pints of water, pour it into a sugar-boiler, together with 21b. of loaf sugar, and boil, removing the scum as it rises, and adding occasionally a few drops of cold water until clear; boil for a few minutes longer, and strain through a tammy. Make some goad frying batter, dip the Oranges first in the cold syrup and then in the batter, put them into a stewpan in which some fat should be ready boiling, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the fritters on paper to absorb the fat as much as possible, place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, sift caster sugar over them, and serve. Oranges Frosted and Glace.—Peel nine go id sized ripe and sweet Oranges. Carefully scrape off all the white and separate the sections from one another, being careful not to break the skin. Mix Goz. of powdered white sugar together with a few drops of liquid cochineal, spread it out on a plate, and dry it in the sun. If it gets lumpy in drying, roll it to powder again between two sheets of paper with a rolling pin. Whisk the whites of three eggs in 3 dessert- spoonfuls of water to a stiff froth; have the coloured sugar ready on a plate, and Goz. of powdered white sugar on another plate. Dip one-third of the pieces of Orange in the white of egg, then roll them in the red sugar, and lay them on a sheet of paper to dry. Dip another third of the pieces in the white of egg, and roll them in the white sugar. Put Hoz. of gum arabic over the fire together with 3 table-spoonfuls of hot water, stir till the gum is melted, add fib. of powdered white sugar, and continue stirring till it forms a clear thick glue. Then stand it in a pan of hot water, and dip the remaining third part of the pieces of Orange into it. Lay a stick along a flat dish and lean these pieces against it to dry. When all are dry, arrange them in a glass dish, and garnish them with orange- or lemon-leaves. Orange Gin.—(1) Put 2galls. of gin in a large vessel with 41b. of loar sugar and the strained juice and peel of thirty large Seville Oranges. Put 1 pint of milk in a small lined saucepan over the fire, and when boiling skim and pour it at once into the gin. Leave the gin for eight or ten days with the cover on the vessel, excepting when taken