996 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. will take about three hours), take oft' the string, put it on a dish with some brown gravy poured round it, and serve hot. Roasted, Boned, and Stuffed Shoulder of Mutton.—Bone the shoulder, but leave the knuckle-bone in ; flatten the meat out on the table, and season it interiorly with salt and pepper. Mince Mb. of cold boiled bacon, and mix with it half its weight of grated breadcrumb, a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and powdered thyme, the grated peel of half a lemon, and salt and pepper to taste. Bind the mixture with beaten yolk of egg, and spread it over the Mutton, leaving a clear margin all round the edge of the meat. Roll the shoulder up tightly, and bind it round with tape. Fix the joint in front of a clear but not fierce fire, and roast it slowly for two hours, keeping it well basted. While it is being cooked, prepare a nicely - flavoured gravy with the bones. When cooked, place the meat on a hot dish, pour some of the gravy round it, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Roasted Fillet of Mutton.—-Cut off the chump end of a loin of Mutton, cover with paper, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast. Let i,t remain for two hours, taking- care that it does not brown in the slightest, and glaze it. Put some well-drained boiled French beans in the gravy, warm them up, turn them out on to a dish, place the meat on the top, and serve. Roasted Fore-quarter of Mutton.—Select a young and tender forequarter of Mutton, wrap it up in sheets of well- buttered paper, and put it on the spit in front of a clear fire to roast. When done, remove it, put it on a dish over a pur tie of haricot beans, and serve very hot. Roasted Haunch of Mutton.—(1) Select a haunch of Mutton that has been hanging for about a fortnight, remove all the skin that covers the fat, take out the shank- bone, cover it with well-buttered paper, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast. Baste frequently, and when it has been cooking for about two hours put it nearer the Fig. 1235. Roasted Haunch of Mutton. fire so as to brown ; dust it over with salt and a little flour, and baste with butter. When quite done, place it on a dish, put a paper frill on the shank-bone (see Fig. 1235), pour over 1 wineglassful of port wine mixed with some gravy, and serve with red-currant jelly sauce. (2) Wash a haunch of Mutton with vinegar, wipe it dry, and let it hang. Repeat this washing every day for a fortnight. Stick a few cloves in the knuckle, put the haunch in a saucepan, pour over it 1 pint of port wine, and let it remain for a day, basting frequently with the wine. Re- move the knuckle rather close to the joint of the leg, cut off the skin that covers the fat, cover the haunch with pieces of buttered paper, put it on a spit at a little distance from the lire, and cook until it is thoroughly warmed through. Then put it a little nearer the fire, and continue in this way until it is thoroughly done, basting well. When it is nearly done, remove the paper, sprinkle it over with flour, and brown it well. Put it on a dish, with a frill of paper round the bone, pour over 1 pint of gravy mixed with a little port wine, and serve with red-currant jelly. (3) Trim a haunch of Mutton, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on the spit, and roast; ten minutes before taking it from the fire remove the paper to brown Mutton—continued. it nicely. Peel about 21b. of young carrots, put them in a pan of boiling water for five minutes, then drain them, and leave till cool. Cut the carrots into slices, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, | teaspoonful of moist sugar, and a little more than \ tea- cupful of water. Stand the saucepan over the fire till the water begins to boil, then move it to the side and let it simmer for twenty minutes. When the carrots are tender, mix the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten together with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream with them, add Joz. of butter, and a small quantity of chopped parsley, stir till thick, but do not boil after the eggs are added. When cooked, take the meat off the spit, place it on a hot dish, put the carrots round, and serve it with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. (4) Wrap a sheet of oiled or buttered paper round the haunch, fix it on the spit, and roast it in front of a clear, even fire; fifteen minutes before removing the meat from the fire, take off the paper so that it may get a good brown colour. Peel some small, equal-sized onions, blanch them for five minutes in boiling water, then refresh them in cold water, and leave till cool. Put the onions in a stewpan with a lump of butter, season with a small quantity of salt and sugar, and fry till browned. Pour Iqt. of Spanish sauce over, and boil them till the sauce has reduced to 1 i pints. Boil some white haricot beans in water with butter, salt, one onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and when soft strain them, pass the onions and sauce through a fine hair sieve, return the puree to the saucepan, mix the beans with it, also a small lump of butter, and some meat glaze. When the meat is cooked, put it on a hot dish, glaze it, and place a paper frill round the knuckle. Serve the haunch with the purde and beans in a separate dish. (5) Cut oft' the knuckle rather close to the joint, notch the cramp-bone so as to allow the thick part or cushion to draw up and give the haunch a plump appearance; trim off the thick skin at the flank and round oft' the corner of the fat so as to give the joint a neat shape. Cover the fat with oiled paper, and roast before a good clear fire. About fifteen minutes before the joint is cooked remove the paper, so as to brown the fat; put it when cooked on a dish, and serve with red-currant jelly and rich wine sauce in a sauceboat. A haunch weighing from 141b. to 161b. will take from three hours to three-hours- and-a-half to roast, but if required to be very well done it should be left a little longer. Roasted Larded Heck of Mutton.—Remove the chine- bone from a neck of Mutton, and cut the sides straight and rather short; then trim the fillet of meat close, remov- ing some of the fat covering the ribs, but without making them bare. Lard this fillet with pieces of fat bacon, wrap it up in a piece of oiled or buttered paper, fasten on to the spit with a skewer, and roast gently in front of a clear fire. Baste frequently with butter, and when it has been cook- ing for forty-five minutes, remove the paper so that it may brown, and then take it from the spit. Put it on a dish, sprinkle over salt, and serve with gravy poured over and a garnish of mashed potatoes. Roasted Leg of Mutton.—(1) Take a leg of Mutton, wipe it dry, sprinkle it over with pepper and flour, chop off the knuckle-bone, remove the thick skin, and trim the flank. Put the leg in the oven (or before the fire) in a roasting-dish, add a little water and salt, and baste the leg frequently. Allow about fifteen minutes for every pound if the oven is very quick, but if the oven is slow about twenty minutes. When done, put it on a dish, pour the gravy round, and serve with some currant jelly on a separate dish. If the leg is too large for roasting, it can be divided, and the knuckle end either boiled or the cut end covered with paste made of flour and water and boiled. (2) Take a fat, plump leg of Mutton and beat it with a cutlet-bat to bruise the fibres; round the top part, break up the knuckle sinew by doubling over the leg, and saw off the thin end bone. Put it in a roasting-pan or dish, dust- over with salt, smear over a little butter or lard, and cover it with a piece of well-greased paper. Put it into