THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 172 For details respecting Culina.ry Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. the heart, liver, and lights, chop them up very fine, and keep them hot. When the feet are done (they will take forty-five minutes), take them out, drain them, and split in halves. Pour a little of the liquor into another sauce- pan, add a little butter, well rolled in flour to thicken it, set the pan on the fire, and when the butter is dissolved put in the mince, and add 1 table-spoonful of white wine, a thin slice of lemon, and salt to taste. Boil these together for a few minutes, and add the yolk of an egg beaten up with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and a little grated nutmeg. When this is well mixed in, add the feet, toss the pan over the fire, warm them all up with- Fig. 224. Stewed Pig’s Feet and Fry. out boiling, pour the mince out on to a dish, arrange the halves of feet, with the skin side up, on top of it in the centre, and serve with a garnish of fried pieces of bread (see Fig. 224). Stuffed Pig’s Feet a la Perigueux.—To 141b. of honed turkey forcemeat, add two minced truffles and \ wine- glassful of madeira wine, and mix well together in a howl. Shred six pieces of cnipinette (a skin found in the stomach of a Pig), the size of the hand, on the table, lay on each one a piece of forcemeat the size of an egg, spread it well, and lay one-half of a honed Pig’s foot on top. Cover with another light layer of forcemeat, and finish each with three thin slices of truffles. Cover the cr6pinettes so that they get the form of envelopes, fold them up, and dip them one after the other in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs, and cook in a sautd-pan with 2oz. of clarified butter. Place a heavy weight on top of the feet, cook on a slow fire for twelve minutes on each side, and serve with 4 pint of hot perigueux sauce on the dish, and the Pig’s Feet on top; or they may be served with hot Madeira sauce. Toasted Pig’s Feet.—Put four Pig’s feet in a stewpan with some common stock, and stew until tender; then drain them well, season with salt and pepper, and cover with a layer of freshly-mixed mustard. Fix the feet in front of a sharp clear fire and toast them all over equally. They should be quickly done or they will get tough. When nicely browned, put them on a hot dish, pour some boiling rich brown gravy round, and serve. Pig’s Fry.—This term may be said to include almost all the internal organs of the Pig. In localities where Pigs ar’e largely bred, the fry is an essential dish of the farmer’s table, and may be prepared as follows: Baked Pig’s Fry.— Put a large Spanish onion in a sauce- pan of water, boil it, take it out when done, and chop it up very fine, with a few sage-leaves. Put fib. of Pig’s fry at the bottom of a pie-dish, mask it with a little of the sage-mixture, sprinkle over pepper and salt, and cover with a layer of potatoes cut in slices. Put another fib. of fry on the top, then sage, and potatoes again. The quantity of potatoes required will be about 2411). Pour over sufficient stock or water to fill the dish, put it in the oven, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half. Take it out, brown it on the top with a salamander, and serve very hot. Roasted Pig’s Fry. —Well wash and thoroughly dry the required quantity of Pig’s fry and a little fat and lean pork (beaten tender with a rolling-pin), highly season with finely- Figs —continued. chopped onion, sage, salt, and pepper, and mix thoroughly. Turn the whole into a Pig’s caul, sew it up with thread, and roast in a jack in front of a clear fire. Serve hot. Stewed Pig’s Fry.—Throughly wash 21b of Pig’s fry, cut it into nice slices, mix with 1 teacupful of grated stale breadcrumbs, a finely-chopped onion, a moderate quantity of powdered sage, and salt and pepper to taste. Put two or three slices of bacon in a stewpan, then a few slices of the fry, and over that a layer of the seasoned crumbs ; cover with a layer of the bacon, then fry, and so on, until all is used. Pour in 2£ breakfast-cupfuls of water, put the lid on the pan, and keep the contents simmering at the side of the fire for three hours. When cooked, turn the stew on to a hot dish, and serve it. Pig's Head.—Although not aspiring to the dignity of the boar’s head, which is often but a Pig’s head in disguise, the cook can claim for the latter a variety of delicious dishes that stand almost unrivalled in the annals of culinary art, as may be seen hereunder. Baked Pig's Head.—Cut a Pig’s head into halves and thoroughly clean it, take out the brains, trim the snout and ears, and bake it in a moderate oven for an- hour-and-a-lialf. Wash the brains thoroughly, blanch them, heat them up with an egg, pepper and salt, some finely-chopped or pounded sage, and a small piece of butter. Fry or brown them before the fire, and serve with the head. Boiled Pig’s Head.—(1) Take out the bone from half a Pig’s head, rub it over with salt, and put it into a basin with a few sweet herbs, cloves, and peppercorns. Pour over \ pint of vinegar and let it remain for a day or so. Take the half head out, drain, wipe it dry on a cloth, singe it, and cut it in pieces; put them into a saucepan, pour in the strained vinegar pickle, add a little water, and a few vegetables cut in pieces. Set the saucepan on the fire, boil up, then remove the pan to the side and let it cook slowly for about four horn's. Take out the pieces of meat, trim the outer sides of the tube of the ear, place it in the centre of a dish with the pieces of meat round it, pour over some poivrade sauce, and serve. (2) Put a salted Pig’s head into a saucepan with suffi- cient water to cover, set the pan on the fire, and boil gently for an-hour-and-a-half, when it should be done and quite tender. Take it out, drain, pour over a little rich gravy, and serve with a garnish of cooked vegetables and suet dumplings (see Fig. 225). Boiled Stuffed Pig’s Head.—Split a Pig’s head lengthwise, wash, and bone it, being careful not to cut through the skin. Spread open the head, with the skin side down, and season well with salt and pepper. Prepare a stuffing of finely- minced bacon and liver and a small quantity of minced onion, and breadcrumbs, seasoning with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, finely-chopped thyme, sage, and sweet basil. Bind the mixture with beaten egg, and when well mixed spread it thickly over the head. Lay some sliced Pig’s tongue and strips of pork over the forcemeat, alternately with pickled gherkins and fillets of fat bacon; strew over a small quantity of finely-minced shallot, then spread