969 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mustard—continued. sold it as a very fine flour. She kept her secret, and made a little fortune out of it, trotting about from town to town on a pack-horse for orders, and contriving to secure the patronage of George I. It came to be called Durham Mustard through being manufactured in Durham ; though in fact it was no longer Mustard—that is some- thing steeped in must. The Mustard of America is the flour or finely-ground seeds of Sinapis nigra, a small plant with a yellow flower (see Fig. 1212) or 8. alba. Both are similar in external appearance ; the flour, however, obtained from the former is darker than that obtained from the latter. Blyth tells us that whit e Mustard-seeds are of a yellow colour, elliptical, smooth, a little larger than those of black Mustard, and of a sharp biting taste. The seeds of black Mustard are dark brown in colour, very small, inodorous, and sometimes covered with a whitish coating. The Mustard powder sold by grocers is fre- quently a mixture of both. Mustard is prepared for culinary use by first crushing the seeds between rollers, and then pounding the meal in large mortars. The powder is then passed through sieves—that in the first sieve is called the dressings, that which passes through is the impure flour of Mustard. This impure flour on being passed through a second sieve yields the pure flour of Mustard and a second quantity of dressings. The dressings yield an oil upon pressure that is much valued as a cure for rheumatism. Ground Mustard is very frequently adulterated—the commoner additions being wheat-flour, turmeric, cayenne pepper, gamboge, ginger, potato-starch, pea-flour, radish and rape-seeds, linseed-meal, yellow ochre, chromate of lead, plaster of Paris, and clay. With such a record it is quite evident that consumers will do well to purchase of such manufactm’ers as Keen and Colman, and others of equal repute, and with good reasons for retaining it. From the following receipts it will be seen that there are several modes of mixing and using Mustard : Caster Mustard.—(1) Mix 2oz. of Mustard with 1 salt- spoonful of sugar, adding sufficient water to make it of the required consistence and perfectly smooth. The sugar may be omitted and milk used. (2) If required for keeping, mix 4oz. of Mustard with J teaspoonful of salt, and when it is quite smooth add gradually 1 teacupful of horseradish vinegar and 2 table- spoonfuls of chilli vinegar. Put it into bottles (wide- mouthed for preference), cork it down, and it will remain good for some time. Mustard—continued. (3) Put 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of salt in a basin, pour 1 pint of boiling water on it, and leave it until cold. Stir in with the above water sufficient Mustard to make it thick, put the Mustard in a jar, cover it with parch- ment, and tie it down. Mustard mixed in this way will not discolour, and will keep for three or four months. French. Mustard.—(1) Put 1 pint of brown Mustard-seed in a basin with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls each of parsley, burnet, chervil, and tarragon, and about J teaspoonful each of celery-seeds, cloves, mace, and garlic. Pour over these ingredients a sufficient quantity of white wine vinegar to cover them, put a plate on the basin, and let them steep for twenty-four hours. Afterwards pound the mixture in a mortar, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Moisten the Mustard with more vinegar to bring it to the desired consistency, pack it into small wide-mouthed glass bottles, and cork them tightly. (2) Put a moderate quantity of mixed spices into a saucepan with about J pint of vinegar, boil it until nicely flavoured, then strain it from the spices. Mix some Mustard to a stiff paste with cold vinegar, then with a red-hot Italian iron-heater stir in quickly the boiling spiced vinegar. Turn the Mustard into a bottle, and cork it well. The Mustard will keep for several years. (3) Imitation.—Mix together a little each of salt and Hour, dilute with salad-oil so as to form a thick paste, and then mix in a sufficient quantity of vinegar, such as horse- radish, tarragon, or chilli, to suit the taste. Imperial Mustard.—Finely chop \ teacupful of capers, and put them into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful each of shallots and sardines both finely chopped, and a clove of garlic also chopped small; pour \ pint of water over and boil for ten minutes. At the end of that time, strain the liquor, return it to the saucepan with an equal quantity of tarragon vinegar and 1 wineglassful of common vinegar, and boil the whole together. Mix Jib. each of brown and yellow Mustard with the boiling liquor until very smooth, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of salad-oil, J table-spoonful of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Put the Mustard mixture into small pots, tie bladder over them, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard for sixteen days. At the end of that time the Mustard will be ready for use. Mustard mixed with Eggs.—Rub the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs through a fine wire sieve, then mix with them 2 table-spoonfuls of Mustard, J table-spoonful of salt, and 1 table-spoonful of Florence oil. Work these together, pouring in gradually at the same time sufficient tarragon vinegar to make a smooth paste. Keep the Mustard tightly corked in a jar until wanted. Mustard Sauce.—(1) Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan over the fire and warm it without letting it brown. Mix in well 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, pour in gradually 1 pint of hot stock or water, and stir until it thickens and is per- fectly smooth. Add 2oz. more of butter pulled in small pieces, stir well, and sprinkle with a little salt and pepper. Mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of made Mustard and a little cayenne, and it is ready for use, being generally used for devilled turkey, salt fish, &c. (2) Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and when it is melted add 1 teaspoonful each of vinegar and flour, half the quantity of English and 2J teaspoonfuls of French Mustard, 1 saltspoonful of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, and a little salt. Put the pan on the side of the fire, stirring gently until it is done and of the consistence of cream and very smooth. A little water or vinegar (in addition), may be added if it is too thick. (3) Thicken 1 pint of milk with flour, put in 2oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until boiling; next mix with it 1 table-spoonful of Mustard, a few drops of vinegar, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Keep the sauce hot until ready to serve. (4) Dilute in a saucepan 1 table-spoonful of ground English Mustard with 1 table-spoonful of tarragon vinegar and half the quantity of Worcestershire sauce; strain into this 1 pint of Spanish sauce, and place the pan on I the hot stove. Beat continually until thoroughly heated,