THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 17 Oatmeal—continued. on a griddle, and when they are crisp (see Fig. 19), they are done and ready for use. Fig. 19. Oatmeal Wafers. Oatmeal Water.—(1) Pour 1 pint of cold filtered or boiled water into a jar over a little more than 1 table-spoonful of coarse Oatmeal. Stir well from the bottom, and then let it stand until all the sediment has settled. Strain off the clear, and it is ready for use. It may he used for giving nourishing qualities to lemonade. (2) Put 4oz. of Oatmeal into a large jar or howl, and mix in 24galls. of water. Stir it well, pour it into a sauce- pan, and boil it slowly for thirty minutes; then strain it through a rather coarse sieve, and add sufficient brown sugar to sweeten. Half an ounce of tartaric acid, or Joz. of citric acid dissolved in it, is an improvement, especially if lemon- or orange-peel be boiled in it. OCHRA, or OCRA.—See Okra. OCTAVE.—A small cask of wine holding about 11 .(galls., originally the eighth part of a pipe. There are also half-octaves. OFFAL. (Fr. Abattis).— The technical name given to those parts of a slaughtered animal that are not supposed to be used for food; such as the hide, and internal parts. At one time the tail of the ox was included in the Offal, also the head, heart, and other organs; but most of these are now specially dressed by the Offal merchant and re-sold to the butcher. OFFICE PASTE.—See Gum Paste. OHM.—See Aum. OIL (Fr. Huile; Ger. Oel; Ital. Olio; Sp. Aceyte).—A sort of fluid grease, extracted from animal, vegetable, and mineral substances. The kind of Oil best known to cooks is Salad or Olive Oil; some others, such as Seed Oil, being occasionally used for frying. OKRA.—The name of this plant (Abelmoschus escu- lentus) is also spelled Ochra and Ocra. It is a native of the West Indies, but has been naturalised in India and America, where the pods are much used for thickening soup, being exceedingly mucilaginous and aromatic. The young green pods (see Fig. 20) are sometimes pickled and the older pods are preserved in tins for export. Soup or stew containing Okra-pods is called Gubbo or Gumbo. Boiled Okras.—(1) Put some young Okras into a saucepan of salted water, and boil them until quite tender. Take them out, drain, and put them into a saucepan with a little more than 1 table-spoonful of butter and h gill of cream. Boil the Okras up, turn them out on to a” dish, dust over with salt and pepper, and serve very hot. (2) Take twenty-four medium-sized Okras, and wash them well in cold water.. Drain thoroughly and pare both ends. Plunge the Okras into a saucepan containing boiling salted water,, and let them cook for fifteen minutes. Lift them out with a skimmer, and lay them on a cloth to drain. Use them for salad, or any other purpose desired. Dried Okra Soup.—(1) Put i pint of dried Okras into 3 pints of cold water, and let them soak all night; on the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, VOL. II. Okra—continued. following morning put them with the water into a sauce- pan with as much stock as will make up the desired quantity of soup, and boil it for five hours. Next put in some American tomatoes, season to taste, and boil for two hours longer. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Pick over lqt. of dried Okras, wash them in cold water, and soak overnight in 2qts. of cold water. Be sure that the Okras are tender, for if tough and full of woody fibre they will be unpalatable. The next morning, pluck and singe a tender fowl weighing about 31b., draw it with- out breaking the intestines, wipe with a wet towel, cut it in small joints as for fricassee, and roll the pieces in flour Fig. 20. Okiia-plant. seasoned with pepper and salt. Put a saucepan over the fire with h breakfast-cupful of lard, and when the fat is hot put in the chicken and fry it a light brown. When the chicken is brown, add to it the Okras and the water in which they have been soaking, together with enough water to make 4qts. of soup; season with salt and pepper, and cook gently until the chicken is tender. Meantime remove all bits of shell from lqt. of large oysters, and strain the liquor; mb to a fine powder 1 table-spoonful of dried sassafras-leaves, sift the powder through a very fine sieve, and put it into the soup. When the chicken is tender, put in the oysters together with their liquor, boil for two minutes, and serve very hot. In some of the large cities of America a powder made of sassafras- leaves and shoots is sold under the name of gumbo filet; when this is used, it is stirred into the soup just before serving. Okra-Gumbo.—Nee Okra Soun. Okra Salad.—Put about twelve Okra-pods in a saucepan with slightly-salted water and boil them; when cooked, drain the pods, and put them in cold water to cool. Prepare a Fig. 21. Okra Salad. bed of chicory in a salad-bowl; cut the Okras in quarters, and lay them on the chicory (see Fig. 21). Mix teacup- fuls of salad-oil with 1 teacupful of vinegar, season it with salt and pepper, add 1 teaspoonful of chopped herbs, pour the mixture over the salad, and serve. Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. C