72 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processest Utensilst Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. warmed butter, and put them in the oven. When nicely glazed, arrange the crusts on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Curried Oysters.—(1) Peel and cut into thin slices a moderate- sized Spanish onion ; put a lump of butter into a stewpan, place it over the lire, and when the butter boils put in the onion and fry it until nicely browned. Next stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of curry powder, add more butter if necessary, and mix well over the fire. Pour in gradually a sufficient quantity of broth, put the lid on the pan, anil let the -whole boil np. Grate a cocoa-nut and peel and chop a very sour apple, or, instead of the apple, a few tamarinds would be best if they could be obtained; put them into the stewpan with the other ingredients, and boil the whole gently until the cocoa-nut is tender. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour smooth with a little water, and stir it into the above mixture; season to taste with salt, stir it over the fire, and boil for five minutes. Put two or three tomatoes, freed of their seeds, into a stewpan with a hundred Oysters and their liquor, also the milk of the cocoa-nut. Stir them occasionally, and stew gently for a few minutes. Add this to the former mixture. Squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, turn the curry on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve with a separate dish of rice. (2) Put five or six dozen Oysters in a basin with their liquor. Chop two onions into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with loz. of butter, fry them, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of curry powder and 1 teaspoonful of curry paste; when these are incorporated, put in the Oysters with their liquor, stir well until they are completely covered with the thick liquor, then turn them out on to a dish, and serve. A dish of boiled rice should accompany this. (3) Peel and mince a large onion, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until lightly browned ; blanch two dozen Oysters and drain them. Stir 1 table- spoonful of curry powder in with the onions, mix well, put in the Oysters and their strained liquor, stir until boiling, then take the Oysters out and place them on a hot dish. Put a small piece of butter that has been kneaded with a little flour in the sauce, stir it until thickened, then pour it over the Oysters. Garnish with sippets of toast or small croft tons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Darioles of Oysters.—After having scalded one dozen Oysters in their own liquor remove their beards and cut each Oyster into four pieces. Put 2oz. of flour and loz. of butter into a saucepan, beat them together over the fire, and when the butter is melted add j- pint of milk and the Oyster liquor; stir this over the fire till it boils, dust in a pinch of salt, a little pepper, nutmeg, and cayenne to taste, two well-beaten eggs, and 1 teaspoonful of lemon- juice. Put the Oysters in buttered dariole-moulds, pour the liquor over them, and cover with buttered paper; set them in a steamer, and-steam them for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When this is done turn them out and serve with Dutch sauce. Devilled Oysters.—(1) Take 1 pint of Oysters, or sufficient to make a good dish, wipe them dry, and lay them on a Hat dish; cover with butter well warmed and mixed with cayenne pepper and lemon-juice, turn them over and over in this mixture for ten minutes, then roll them in a paper of rolled crackers or sifted breadcrumbs; dip them into beaten egg, and again roll them in the crumbs, fry them in boiling lard and butter mixed, and serve as hot as possible. (2) Open the Oysters, letting each one remain with its liquor in the deepest shell. Add to each a few drops of lemon-juice, a little pepper, cayenne, and salt, and a small bit of butter. Lay the shells on a gridiron over a clear hot fire, and let the Oysters cook for three minutes. Serve them in the shells laid on a napkin on a dish with slices of bread-and-butter. Fried Oysters.-—(1) Select large Oysters and drain them; mix 1 table-spoonful of flour smoothly with \ teacupful of Oysters—continued. milk, grate some stale breadcrumb on a sheet of paper, and season with salt and pepper ; roll the Oysters first in the paste and then in the breadcrumbs, covering well, but touching them as little as possible. Lay them on a plate and leave them for several minutes. Beat one or two eggs thoroughly, roll the Oysters in it, one at a time, then roll them again in the seasoned breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of lard in a frying-pan over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the Oysters and fry them until nicely browned. Take each Oyster as it is cooked out of the fat and lay it on a sheet of paper in front of the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the Oysters upon it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Open the Oysters, beard and wipe them quite dry, season slightly with grated nutmeg, roll them in beaten white of egg, and then in finely-grated breadcrumb; put a large piece of lard in a flat stewpan, and when it boils put in the Oysters and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the Oysters as they are done on a sheet of kitchen- paper, spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, pile the Oysters on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Partially boil the Oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and dry them on a cloth. Make a thin batter, and put the Oysters into it. Put a large lump of lard in a fiat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling take each Oyster up with 1 table-spoonful of the batter and drop it in. When delicately browned, take the Oysters out, and drain them on a sheet of kitchen-paper placed in front of the fire; spread a fancy disli-paper or a folded napkin over a hot dish, arrange the Oysters on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (4) Season some breadcrumbs with salt, pepper, powdered sweet herbs, and grated lemon-peel. Beat up two or three eggs on a plate. Dry some Oysters as much as possible, dip them in the beaten eggs, and roll them in the bread- crumbs. Egg and breadcrumb them twice. Melt a lump of butter in a fiat stewpan, put in the Oysters, and fry until nicely browned. Afterwards place them on a sheet of paper for a minute or two to absorb the grease, then put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (5) Blanch twenty-four large Oysters in their own liquor for two minutes, and drain them ; spread some chicken forcemeat over both sides of the Oysters, dip them in egg and finely-sifted breadcrumbs, fry in hot lard for three minutes, and serve with fried parsley. Fried Oysters and Bacon.—Open one dozen Oysters and remove their beards ; cut as many thin slices of bacon as there are Oysters, trim them neatly, lay an Oyster on each, roll them up, and fasten with small skewers. Fry each roll carefully and nicely. Cut as many rounds of bread, about Jin. thick and 2in. in diameter, as there are rolls of bacon, toast them eveidy on both sides, and butter Fig. 91. Fkied Ovsteks and Bacon. them. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged disli-paper on a hot dish, put the pieces of toast on it, with a roll on each, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 91), and serve. Fried Oyster Balls. -Blanch two dozen Oysters in their own liquor, then strain and cut them into very small pieces. Skin and finely chop 4oz. of suet and also chop very finely 4oz. of veal. Mix all the ingredients together in a basin, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of pounded mace, and bind them with beaten yolk of egg.