THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 144 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Fears—continued. from the fire and put it into pots, and when quite cold, lay on top of each a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover the pots airtight. Fear Paste Drops.—Peel and core sufficient Pears to make lib. of pulp, put them in a lined pan, with \ pint of cider or perry, and boil them to a pulp. Rub this through a coarse hair sieve, and mix with it lib. of crushed loaf sugar. Stir the pulp and sugar over the fire till reduced to a stiff paste. Put this into a small round-bottomed sugar- boiler with a pointed spout. Lay the paste out in drops upon square sheets of polished tin, and dry them in the screen. When dry, detach the drops from the sheets by the aid of a thin knife. Keep them between sheets of paper in closed boxes, and they are ready when wanted. Fear Fie.—Peel and slice six medium-sized fine Pears, place them into a basin with 3oz. of powdered loaf sugar, put this over a pie-dish lined with paste, and cover over with more paste, moistening the edges with beaten egg, and pressing them down with the hand. _ Brash the surface over with more beaten egg, put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for alrout fifty minutes. Remove it to the oven door, sprinkle powdered loaf sugar over the top, push it into the oven again for two minutes to melt the sugar, put the pie on a fiat dish, and serve either hot or cold. Pear Preserve with Cream.—Peel and cut in halves about six Pears, put them in a stewpan with an equal weight of sugar, and a small quantity of water to prevent them burning, and boil slowly until clear and tender, and the moisture reduced to a jelly. When the Pears have cooled a little, turn them on to a glass dish; and when quite cold, serve them with whipped cream. Pear Puffs.—Peel and core five or six Pears, cut them into small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of cold water, the juice of half a lemon, and 1\ table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Put in also Jib. of raisins, and stew the whole slowly for half-an-hour. When cooked, turn the mixture on to a plate and leave it until cold. Put ill), of flour and Jib. of butter on a paste- board, and rub them together until quite smooth, then mix in the yolk of an egg, and sufficient cold water to knead it into a a slight paste. Dredge flour over the paste board and roll the paste out on it to about the thickness of lin., and divide it into pieces about 3in. square. Beat the white of the egg lightly and brush it round the edges of the paste with a paste-brush. Put an equal quantity of the cold Pear mixture in the centre of each of the pieces of paste, and fold the edges together; brush over each a little of the white of egg and dust them over with a small quantity of caster sugar. Dredge a baking-sheet lightly with flour, place the puffs on the baking-sheet, leaving a short space between, put them into a moderate oven and bake them for half-an-hour. When cooked, arrange the puffs on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin, and serve them. Pear Pulp for Ices.—Take off the peel from the required quantity of Pears, cut them up into slices, remove the cores, put them into a preserving-pan with a little water and the strained juice of a lemon, set the pan on the fire, and let it remain until the slices are quite soft. Take them out carefully and drain, put them into a copper pan, reduce them to a pulp over the fire, rub the pul]) through a coarse sieve, and mix in 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar to each pound. Put the mixture into wide-mouthed bottles, cork and tie down securely, place them in a deep pan with hay between them to prevent breakage, pour in water to half their height, and simmer gently to steam the pulp for fifteen minutes. Remove the pan from the fire, let the bottles cool in the water, take them out, seal the corks, and put them in a cool place until wanted. Pear Quenelles.—Peel five or six large Pears and cut them into rather small pieces, throwing away the cores. Beat four eggs with 2oz. of slightly-warmed butter, and mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, 1 teaspoonful of grated lemon-peel, a small quantity of grated nutmeg or cinnamon, and sugar to taste. Mix the Pears with the Fears—continued. other ingredients, and stir in sufficient grated breadcrumbs to form a stiff mixture. Put a saucepan of water over the fire, and when boiling, take up the mixture in table- spoonfuls, and lay them in gently. Keep the quenelles boiling slowly at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. When cooked, drain and put them on a hot dish, strew caster sugar and powdered cinnamon over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet milk sauce. Fear-and-Quince Marmalade.—Peel and core twelve juicy Pears and five ripe Quinces. Stew the parings and cores in sufficient cold water to just cover them. When they have stewed to pieces strain the liquor off, and when it is quite cold slice the fruit, weigh it, and put it over the fire in the liquor strained from the cores and parings, bring it quickly to a boil, let it boil till thick and smooth, and then stir in the strained juice of a lemon and a half, and the sugar in the proportion of fib. of sugar to each pound of sliced fruit. Let it boil steadily for an hour, working it up and mashing the fruit with a wooden spoon to a smooth jelly. When sufficiently boiled take the pan from the fire, let it cool a little, and then put the mar- malade into jars; when quite cold lay on top of the marmalade in each jar a piece of white paper dipped in brandy, and cover them down airtight. Pear Salad.—(1) Peel and core some ripe Pears, cut them in thin slices, and lay them in a glass dish; sprinkle caster sugar over them, pour in a little brandy or ram, and serve. (2) Peel, core, and cut five large mellow Pears in slices, put them into a glass bowl, cover them with caster sugar, and squeeze the juice of one lemon over them. Keep them in a cold place till ready to serve, then pour 1 wineglassful of kirschenwasser over, and shake them about well to mix them. Pear Soup.—(1) Peel about 21b. of large Pears, cut them into thin slices, put them in a saucepan with a sliced penny French roll, half-a-dozen cloves, and 3 pints of water, and boil them gently until quite soft. Strain the soup through a coarse sieve, return it to the saucepan, flavour it with 1 teacupful of wine and the juice of one lemon, and sweeten to taste with sugar. Boil the soup up again, then pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve it while very hot with a plate of sponge cake or macaroons. (2) Remove the peel and cores from six large Pears, put them into a saucepan with 6 break fast-cupfuls of rain water and a roll cut into slices, also a few cloves, and boil them until they are quite soft. Pass the whole through a fine sieve into another saucepan, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, 1 or 2 wineglassfuls of wine, and the strained juice of a medium-sized lemon. This sweet soup should be served in glasses with sponge or other cake. Pear Tart.—(1) Core and peel a dozen or so cooking Pears, fill up the cavity with sponge cake soaked in cowslip wine, place them in a pie-dish, pour over a liqueur-glass- ful of orange-flower water, sprinkle over a good supply of caster sugar, about half-fill the dish with cold water, cover over the top with puff paste, glaze the surface, and bake in a moderate oven. This tart may be seived either hot or cold at discretion. (2) Peel and slice six medium-sized Pears, place them in a basin with 3oz. of powdered loaf sugar, and mix well. Line a pie-dish with paste, spread over 1 table- spoonful of apple sauce, and arrange the slices of Pears over this. Roll out 3oz. more of the paste to 2ft. in length, fold it over to make a long narrow strip, and roll it slightly until about 30in. long. Moisten the edges of the pie with beaten egg, place the strip round, fastening the ends together, one overlapping the other, glaze the surface with beaten egg, put the pie in a moderate oven, and bake for about fifty minutes. Bring the pie to the oven door, sprinkle over powdered loaf sugar, return it to the oven for two minutes to melt the sugar, cover over evenly with about 2oz. of sweet jelly, and serve hot or cold. (3) Peel, core, and cut ten Pears in halves, put them in a lined stewpan with lqt. of water and Jib. of crushed loaf sugar, and simmer gently by the side of the fire till