THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 963 Mushrooms—continued. liquor of the Mushrooms, continue stirring until boiling, then strain the Mushrooms and put them in. Season the sauce to taste with salt and cayenne pepper, and let it simmer at the side of the fire until ready to serve. Mushroom Brown Sauce.—(1) Pare lqt. of Mushrooms and chop off the roots; wash them well, cut them in halves, and put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of brown gravy and the peel of half a lemon, adding salt and pepper to taste. Cook gently for thirty minutes, and if the liquor has evaporated too much add a little more gravy and a small piece of butter rolled1 in flour. Remove the lemon-peel, add the juice of half a lemon, and it is then ready for use. (2) Peel the Mushrooms, cut them into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with about loz. of butter, and fry until lightly browned. Pour in \ pint of clear broth, season it with lemon-juice and salt, and boil for a few minutes. Serve the sauce hot. (3) Pick carefully over 1 pint of Mushrooms, and when they are quite clean put them iii a stewpan with three finely-chopped shallots and a few sprigs of parsley. Pour in sufficient clear gravy to cover them well, season to taste with salt and pepper, boil gently for two hours, and at the end of that time pass the Mushrooms with the sauce through a fine hair sieve. Mix loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan over the fire, pour in the sauce, and stir until it boils. Keep it hot in the bain-marie until ready to serve. Mushroom White Sauce.—(1) Chop off the stems from lqt. of Mushrooms, peel and wash them well, cut them in halves, and put them into a saucepan with 1 gill of water. Add half a blade of beaten mace, a little lemon-peel and grated nutmeg, cover over the pan, and stew gently for thirty minutes, taking care not to let them burn. Beat up the yolks of two eggs with 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and add a little butter rolled in flour and salt to taste. Stir the Mushroom mixture until it is quite smooth ; pour in the cream mixture, and stir well until the whole boils. Take out the lemon-peel, add the juice of half a lemon, and it is ready for use, being served separately or poured over the fowls, &c. (2) Peel and trim off all the dark parts from the Mush- rooms, cut them into small pieces, and put them in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of cream, 2oz. of butter, and a small quantity of white pepper; put the lid on the sauce- pan, and let the Mushrooms simmer gently at the side of the fire until soft. Put h pint of clear broth into a sauce- pan with sufficient flour to bring it to the thickness of cream, stir it over the fire until cooked, then pour in with the Mushrooms. Season the sauce to taste with salt and grated nutmeg, boil it for two or three minutes longer, then serve. (3) Cut about 1 pint of button-Mushrooms into halves. Melt 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and mix in 2 table- spoonfuls of flour. When smooth, pour in gradually about 1 pint of clear veal stock, and stir until boiling. Put in the button-Mushrooms, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with the juice of a small lemon, ai d strain and stir them into the sauce, first moving the saucepan to the side of the fire. When the eggs have thickened, the sauce will be ready for serving. It must not boil after the eggs are added, or they will curdle. Mushrooms Saute3.—(1) Pick and thoroughly cleanse some large Mushrooms, and put them into a basin of cold water with the juice of a lemon or a small quantity of vinegar. Take them out, and dry them on a cloth; melt a lump of butter in a saute-pan, put in the Mushrooms, with salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and toss them over the fire until nicely cooked. When ready, turn the Mushrooms on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Peel and trim some middling-sized Mushrooms, chop up the trimmings with one shallot and 1 teaspoonful of parsley, and when they are minced very fine put them into a sautApan with loz. of butter, a little brown sauce, 1 table-spoonful of breadcrumbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Mushrooms—continued. Saute them until done, stuff the Mushrooms with the mixture, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for about ten minutes. Have ready some croft tons of fried bread cut the size of the Mushrooms, put them on a dish with a Mushroom on the top of each (see Fig. 1207), and serve quickly. Mushrooms Sautes a la Bordelaise.—Select lib. of the largest, driest, thickest, and firmest Mushrooms procurable ; pare them neatly, wash well, drain, and cut them into lozenge shape. Place them in an earthenware dish, sprinkle over them 1 table-spoonful of oil, 1 pinch of salt, and twelve whole peppers, and leave them in the marinade for two hours. Take them out, stew them for six minutes, and when done place them on a dish. Put 3 table- spoonfuls of oil in a saute-pan together with 1 teaspoonful each of well-chopped parsley, anchovies, and a clove of crushed garlic, heat for five minutes, add to the Mush- rooms, and serve. Mushrooms Sautes a la Creme.—Prepare lib. of fine, fresh Mushrooms by neatly paring off the ends; then clean and wash them well, and if very large cut into halves. Drain, and place them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter. Season with 1 pinch of salt and \ pinch of pepper, put on the lid, and cook over a moderate fire for six minutes. Add 2 table-spoonfuls of veloute sauce and l breakfast- cupful of sweet cream, cook for four minutes longer, and serve in a hot dish with six heart-shaped bread croft tons for garnish. Mushrooms Sautes on Toast.—Prepare lib. of fine, large, fresh Mushrooms, as for Mushrooms Sautes a la Creme, and place them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter. Season with 1 pinch of salt and 7 pinch of pepper, cover the pan, and cook for ten minutes, tossing them well. Squeeze in the juice of half a medium-sized lemon and add 1 pinch of chopped parsley, well sprinkled over. Place six pieces of toasted bread on a hot dish, dress the Mushrooms over them, and serve. Mushroom Soup.—(1) Peel about two dozen nice large Mushrooms, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter and fry them ; and then pound them finely in a mortar. Mix U pints of good stock with the Mushrooms, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Pour the soup into a stewpan, and mix with it 1 pint of cream and some stewed button-Mushrooms; season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it up. Serve in a soup-tureen with a plate of sippets of toast or erofttons of fried bread. (2) Put a good quantity of chopped Mushrooms and a sliced onion into 3 pints of boiling water in a saucepan on the fire and thicken with a little flour fried hi butter. Season to taste with salt and pepper, strain into a tureen, and serve with small pieces of fried bread, macaroni, or vermicelli floating on the top. Pickled Mushrooms.—(1) Procure sufficient young button- Mushrooms (the best for pickling), cut the stalks off short, and remove the skins with a piece of flannel dipped in salt. Put them into a stewpan together with 1 teaspoon- ful of pounded mace and h teaspoonful of ground pepper for each pint, dredge with salt, and toss them over a moderate fire. When the juice runs from them and has all dried up again, pour in a sufficient quantity of vinegar to cover; boil for about three minutes, then turn all into jars or wide-mouthed bottles. On the following day, cover the jars or bottles with parchment, tie down securely, seeing that they are perfectly air-tight, and stow them away in a diy store-cupboard for use. (2) Procure a sufficient quantity of small button-Mush- rooms, and rah clean with a flannel dipped in vinegar. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. 4 A 2