THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 175 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils. Sauces. <tc., referred to. see under their special heads. Figs—continued. salt, pepper, and pounded cloves ; fill some well-washed and soaked intestines with it, tie them up, plunge them in a saucepan of boiling water, anil simmer for one hour. When cooked, drain the saveloys and wrap them up in cloths. These should he served quite cold. (3) Peel and cut into small dice sufficient truffles to weigh 10oz., boil them for two or three minutes in about 2 table-spoonfuls of Madeira, then mix with the truffles, in a basin, an equal quantity of fat liver, also cut in dice, and sprinkle salt and spices over them. Scrape 21b. of Pig’s liver, chop it, and pass it through a sieve. Cut up in dice 21b. of fat bacon, and mix it with the liver. Put 21b. of pork, taken from the neck, and cut up in small pieces, in a frying-pan with a little lard, and fry it over a moderate fire. When cooked, take it off, let it cool, then chop it finely, and pass through a sieve; mix with it the liver, bacon, and truffles, sprinkle a little saltpetre and cayenne over the preparation, then finish as described for No. 1. Roasted Pig’s Liver.—Cut the liver up into moderate-sized pieces, put them in a basin, strew over them some fennel- seed, chopped garlic, and sweet herbs, season with salt and pepper, and cover with oil. Let the pieces of liver macerate for several hours, then roll each piece in grated breadcrumbs. Wrap them up separately in pieces of pig’s caul, and fix them on a skewer with a bay-leaf between each. Roast them before a brisk clear fire, and when cooked, lay the skewers on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. Fig’s Tails.—These are generally left by the butcher attached to the loin. When Pig’s tails can be obtained separately, they may be cooked as follows: Boiled Pig’s Tails.—Trim and well wash four or five Pigs’ tails, put them in a saucepan of salted water, and boil until done. Take them out, drain, wipe them on a cloth, and arrange on a dish over a puree of peas. Put a few chopped mushrooms into a frying-pan with a little butter, ami fry until quite brown; put them into a saucepan with a little stock, reduce it, and add the yolks of one or two eggs to thicken. Pour it, when ready, over the tails, and serve. Fig’s Tongues.—It is not usual to find these separated from the heads. They are very tasty cooked as fol- lows : Braised Pig’s Tongues and Pillets of Pork.—Trim olf the skin from some small fillets of pork that have been cut from the under loins, beat them flat, and lard them with fillets of bacon. Place some thin slices of bacon and sliced onions at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the fillets, add a bunch of thyme and parsley, and one or two bay-leaves; moisten with 1 pint of stock, stand it over the fire till boiling, then put the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes on it, and keep it at the side of the fire till the fillets are tender. Boil three or four small Pigs’ tongues, and when cooked, drain them, cut each into halves lengthwise, peel ofl the skin, and trim them nicely. When the fdlets are cooked, glaze them, and also the halves of tongues. Dress the tongues and fillets alter- nately on a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato sauce. Cured Pig’s Tongues.—Clean and trim three or four Pigs’ tongues, put them into a saucepan of water, and parboil them in order to remove the skins. Put them into a large jar, one on top of the other, fill up the jar with a good ham pickle, and put a weight on the top of the tongues so as to keep them immersed. Cover the jar and let it stand for seven or eight days; then take out the tongues, dry them on a cloth, squeeze them into prepared sausage skins, and smoke them. Take them out of the skins when done, and they are ready for use. Sucking-Pig.—Charles Lamb wrote of this the fol- lowing rhapsody: “ Of all the delicacies in the whole mundus edibilis, I will maintain it to be the most delicate—'princess obsoniorum. Figs —continued. “ I speak not of your grown porkers—things between Pig and pork—those hobbidehoys—but a young and tender suckling—under a moon old—guiltless as yet of the sty— with no original speck of the amor immunditix, the here- ditary failing of the first parent, yet manifest—his voice as yet not broken, but something between a childish treble and a grumble—the mild forerunner, or prseludium, of a grunt. “ He must be roasted or baked. I am not ignorant that our ancestors ate them seethed or boiled—but what a sacrifice of the exterior tegument! “There is no flavour comparable, I will contend, to that of the crisp, tawny, well-watched, not over-roasted crackling, as it is well called; the very teeth are invited to their share of the pleasure at this banquet in overcoming the coy brittle resistance, with the adhesive oleaginous —O call it not fat! but an indefinable sweetness growing up to it—the tender blossoming of fat—fat cropped in the bud, taken in the shoot, in the first innocence—the cream and quintessence of the child-pig’s yet pure food: the lean, no lean, but a kind of animal manna, or rather fat and lean (if it must be so) so blended and running into each other, that both together make but one ambrosian result or common substance.” The Sucking-Pig should not be more than a month or six weeks old, and if possible it should be dressed the day after it is killed. The first step is to scald it, and this is done as follows: Put a large pan of water over the fire to boil. Steep the Pig in cold water for fifteen minutes, then plunge it into the boiling water, hold it by the head and shake it about until the hairs begin to loosen. Then take it out of the water and rub it vigorously with a coarse towel until all the hairs are removed. Cut the pig open, remove the entrails, and wash it thoroughly in plenty of cold water. Dry the Pig on a towel, cut the feet off at the first joint, lea rung sufficient skin to turn over, and keep it wrapped in a wet cloth until ready to use. Baked Sucking-Pig1.—(1) Choose a small plump Pig. Use the liver, heart, and lights for the dressing, after first putting them over the fire in salted boiling water, and boiling them until tender, or mincing them after brown- ing them in butter. Peel and grate an onion, put it over the fire in a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and fry it slowly; mince the heart, liver, kidneys, and add them to the onion; soak 2 breakfast-cupfuls of bread in cold water until soft, then squeeze it in a towel to extract the water, and put it with the minced mixture and onion ; season the mixture highly with salt, pepper, ground sage, and marjoram, and stir it until it is scalding hot. Use this stuffing for the Pig, sewing it up; truss it Fig. 228. Baked Sucking-Pig. so as to keep the legs in place, put it into a dripping-pan just large enough to hold it, and bake it in a moderate oven. For the first hour baste it with butter and hot water, and after that with butter alone. If the ears and tail seem in danger of browning, wrap them in buttered paper, season the Pig with salt and pepper two or three times while it is being basted. A medium sized Pig will take from two to two-hours-and-a half to bake. When the Pig is done, put it on a dish to keep hot after reniov-