TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 110 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. shallots, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 1 teacupful each of white wine and stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir over the lire until boiling. Turn the pieces of Partridges into the sauce, move it to the side of the fire, and leave them until hot through. Fry some slices of bread in butter until nicely browned, then drain and place them on a hot dish; put a piece of the Partridge on each slice of bread, strain their gravy round them, and serve. Salmis of Partridge a l’Ancienne.—Lard and roast three Partridges, letting them be underdone, and leave them until cold; then cut them into pieces, removing the skin and paring them nicely. Put the pieces in a stewpan with stock to nearly their height, a few shallots, a small piece of lemon-peel, and J breakfast-cupful of reduced Spanish sauce, and stew them gently until the liquor has reduced to half its original quantity; then take out the pieces of Partridges, and strain the sauce through a tammy. Put the trimmings of the Partridges in a mortar, and pound them, moistening them occasionally with a few drops of the sauce. Rub the pounded mixture through a fine hair sieve into a stewpan, add the pieces of Partridges, and warm them up again in a bain-marie; make the sauce hot again. When ready, arrange the pieces of Partridges and the puree on a hot dish, with a crouton of bread fried brown in butter between each piece, pour the sauce round, and serve very hot. Souffle of Partridge.—(1) Cut the flesh off some roasted Par- tridges, chop it, put it in a mortar, and pound it together with a few table-spoonfuls of veloutd sauce and a lump of butter; season to taste, beat in the yolks of four eggs, then pass all through a fine hair sieve. Beat the whites of six eggs well, and mix them with the puree. Butter a baking- dish, put the souffle in, cover the top with paper, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. When cooked, it is ready for serving. (2) Pound the flesh of some roasted Partridges in a mortar, having previously removed the skin and tendons; moisten the purde with a little rich gravy, season with pepper and salt, then pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put it in a stewpan with a little butter, and stir it over the fire till warm; then add the beaten yolks of four eggs, and when well mixed stir in the whites, which should have been beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the preparation into a silver souffle case, and bake it in a moderate oven till well risen. The souffle should be served very hot, with a sauce- boatful of rich brown sauce. (3) Cut the flesh off three roast Partridges, removing all skin and tendons; chop it finely, then put it in a mortar, pound it, and rub it through a line hair sieve. Prepare a thick butter sauce, mixing a little mushroom liquor with it if convenient. Measure the Partridge paste, and for each 4 break fast-cupfuls use I \ cupfuls of the sauce; season with salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg and lemon- peel, and 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, stir it over the fire till boiling, then set it away to cool. Whip the yolks of eight eggs, mix them with the preparation, then beat the whites to a froth, and put them in also. Turn the souffle preparation into twenty fancy paper cases, put them in the oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. When done, put the cases on a large dish, and serve them at once with a plate of buttered toast. Stewed Partridges.—(1) Procure three Partridges, old ones will do, lard them, and truss them as for boiling. Line a stew- pan with slices of fat bacon, put in the Partridges, breasts downwards, with a slice of lean veal, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few chopped savoury vegetables; pour in a teacupful each of gravy and white wine. Let all simmer gently at the side of the fire for an-liour-and-a-half; at the end of that time put the Partridges on a hot dish, strain their cooking-liquor over them, garnish with cut lemons and fried parsley, and serve. (2) Clean, truss, and lard some Partridges; put them in a stewpan with two slices of fat pork, two carrots and an onion cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, and sufficient ordinary white wine and stock mixed in equal quantities to cover them. Season with salt and pepper, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer gently till the birds are | Partridges—continued. cooked. Take the Partridges out and keep them hot; boil the cooking-liquor till reduced to half, then skim off all the fat, pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve over the birds, which should have been put on a hot dish, and serve. (3) Singe, draw, and truss a Partridge as for roasting; put it in a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover, and let it simmer gently for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the Partridge out, brush over the breast with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, sprinkle breadcrumbs over with a little pepper and salt, and brown it under a salamander. Thicken the sauce with a little flour and butter that has been kneaded together, put the Partridge on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (4) Lithuanian Style.—Work Goz. of butter with sufficient breadcrumbs to make a stiff paste, seasoning with salt, pepper, and a little chopped parsley. Truss two young Partridges, lix them on a spit, and roast them under done. When nearly cold, divide the birds into three lengthwise, and sprinkle salt over them. Divide the paste into four equal parts, put one on each side of the breasts, then tie the birds in their original form again; put them side by side in a narrow stewpan, put the lid on, and keep them by the side of the lire, basting them occasionally. In fifteen minutes, take the Partridges out, drain them, put them on a hot dish, put a little meat glaze and the strained juice of three lemons in the stew- pan with the butter, and stir over the fire till boiling; then pour it over the Partridges, and serve. Stewed Partridges a la Barbarie.—Truss two or three young Partridges, and stuff them with chopped truffles and rasped bacon that have been seasoned with salt, pepper, and allspice, pounded in a mortar to a stiff paste, and mixed with some peeled and cleaned whole truffles. Cut a few more truffles in little pieces, make some incisions in the breasts of the birds with a sharp-pointed knife, stick the pieces of truffles in in regular order, and finish them as described for Partkidges a la Montmorency. When ready to serve, put some Italian sauce boiled with truffles on a hot dish, place the Partridges on it, taking care first to drain them well, otherwise the fat will spoil the sauce. Stewed Partridge a la Chipolata.—Cut a Partridge into quarters, put it into a pan with butter, and fry it until brown, dusting it over with flour. Put in two dozen small onions, 4lb. of sausages cut into thin slices and fried, six chopped mushrooms, and twelve roasted chestnuts; add seasoning to taste, pour in 2 or 3 wineglassfuls of white wine, and stew until all is tender. Thicken the sauce, turn the whole on to a dish, and serve with croutons of fried bread. Stewed Partridges a la Chivry.—Truss and stew the Partridges as for Partridges a la Montmorency. Stew some rings of white onions in a little game broth. Take a cutter, the same size as the inner rings of the onions, and with it cut some round pieces out of some truffles that should have been braised with the birds, reserving the trimmings of the truffles to mix with the sauce. When the birds are done and put on a hot dish, place the round pieces of truffles over the breasts, three on each side, with the rings of onions round the truffles, and one on each pouch; a little glaze may be used to make the truffles stick on. Prepare the Italian sauce with the trimmings of truffles and a little game glaze. Pour the sauce round the birds, but not over, and serve. Stewed Partridges a l’Espagnole.—Clean two or three Partridges carefully, so as not to injure the skin; pick them, cut off the sinew that is under the joints of the legs, and skewer the legs up towards the breast. Fill a needle with packthread, run it through the stump of the right wing, then through the thick joint of the leg, next across the body, and then again through the other stump ; then tighten the packthread and fasten the knot. Run the needle through from the back to the side beneath the leg, and then .above the pinion below the breast, so as to perforate the breast-bone; let the needle come out from the part parallel to that where it was first introduced,