TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 183 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <&’c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. Put tlie halves of Pigeons into a stewpan, strain the liquor of the vegetables over them, and simmer for half-an- liour. When cool, drain the Pigeons, dip them in frying batter, and fry them in boiling fat till nicely browned. Put the birds on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 236), and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce, or a sauce piquante. Pigeon Soup (1).—Clean and truss three Pigeons, put them into a stewpan with a few chives, 6oz. of raw ham cut in dice, and some broth toppings. Toss them over a brisk fire till nicely coloured, then pour in £ pint of Madeira, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity. Dredge over the birds 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot, and stir it over the fire for two or three minutes, then pour in 3qts. of broth. When the broth is boiling, move tlie stewpan to the side of the fire, put in a bunch of sweet herbs, and simmer till the Pigeons are done. Take the Pigeons out, drain, cut them into four pieces each, and put them in a soup-tureen. Skim the fat off the liquor, put in the yolks of three eggs, and stir it over the fire till thick. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve over the Pigeons in the tureen, and serve. (2) Singe and draw six plump young Pigeons, and roast them for ten minutes; cut the meat off, put the bones into a mortar, sprinkle some flour over them, and pound them. Put the pounded bones into a saucepan with 2qts. of gravy, a bunch of tarragon and chervil, two or three sprigs of parsley, three or four onions, a few carrots and turnips cut in slices, one blade of mace, and a dust of cayenne. When boiling, move tlie saucepan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for two hours. Pass the vegetables and soup through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan, put in the flesh of the Pigeons, and let it simmer one hour longer. Ten minutes before dishing it, stir into the soup a piece of butter that has been rolled in flour. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve- with a plate of sippets of toast. (3) Take four Pigeons, and cut up the oldest one into pieces, with the livers, gizzards, necks and pinions of the other three; put these pieces over the fire in Jgall. of water, boil till all the good is got out of the pieces of Pigeon, and then strain the broth. Put it back into the stewpan to keep hot. Hash a small bunch of parsley and add it to the broth, add also some chives or young onions, and two large handfuls of spinach; all these should be chopped. Fry in 4oz. of boiling butter and 1 teacupful of crumbs; keep stirring them about till they are nicely browned, then put them also into the soup. Trass the other three Pigeons as if for stewing, season them with salt and mixed spices, and boil them in the soup with the herbs till they are tender. Taste the soup, and if it requires more seasoning, add it. Serve very hot. Pigeon Soup with Curry.—Truss three Pigeons, put them into a saucepan with 6oz. of raw ham (cut in dice), the giblets of the Pigeons, two chives, and a piece of butter, and fry them over a brisk fire till browned; then stir in 1 Jjoz. of curry powder, mixed with twice its bulk of flour; pour in gradually 3qts. of broth, and continue stirring till the liquid boils. Stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer till the Pigeons are tender. When cooked, take the Pigeons out, divide each into four or five pieces, and put them in a soup-tureen. Skim the cooking liquor, strain and thicken it with the beaten yolks of three eggs, pour it over the birds, and serve. Potted Pigeons.—(1) Boil the livers and gizzards of some Pigeons until tender, then drain and finely chop them, and make them into a forcemeat with grated ham, breadcrumbs, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and a seasoning of herbs. Stuff the Pigeons with the forcemeat, put them into a stewpan with an onion, h pint of white wine, and the liquor in which the gizzards were stewed, also loz. of butter that has been kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stew them gently until tender. When cooked, pack the Pigeons in suitable pots; strain their cooking liquor, return it to the saucepan, and boil quickly for a few minutes ; then pour a little of it over the birds to level up, and when cold, cover the contents with warmed clarified butter. Pigeons—continued. (2) Draw and wash twelve Pigeons, stand them upside- down in a deep earthenware jar, and pour over them 1 pint of vinegar. Cut three large onions into four pieces each, and place one piece on each Pigeon. Put a plate over the jar and let it stand all night. On the following morning take tlie Pigeons out, drain them, and put them in a deep stewpan with six slices of fat pork; fry them till brown, then take them out, and fry in the fat six onions finely sliced. Trass the Pigeons and dredge them well with salt, pepper, and flour; place them in the stewpan with the onions and pork; put the lid on, and cook them slowly for forty-five minutes, stirring occasionally; then pour in 2qts. of boiling water, and simmer gently for two hours. Mix a heaped teacupful of flour in £ pint of cold water, then stir it in with the Pigeons, adding more seasoning if required. Cook half-an-hour longer. Put the Pigeons on a hot dish with a border of potatoes, pour the gravy over, and serve. (3) Take some perfectly fresh Pigeons, clean them thoroughly, season with pepper and salt, and lay them close together in a small deep pan. The smaller the pan, and the closer the birds are packed in, the less butter will be required. When all the birds are in the pan, cover them with butter, tie over the pan a piece of very thick paper, unless it has a well-fitting lid, and bake them. Let them get quite cold, then put them into pots that "will hold two or three birds, and pour over them the butter they were baked in, with more added to it. It is an improvement to bone them, and stuff with force- meat made with veal and bacon before baking. Boasted Pigeons.—It is well to stuff Pigeons for roasting with a well-seasoned veal forcemeat. Their flavour is much improved by this means, and parsley fried in butter can then be served with them. The stuffing should con- sist of minced raw veal, fat bacon, breadcrumbs soaked in milk, and all mixed together and well seasoned. In America it is usual to serve roasted Pigeons with red- currant jelly or stewed apples without sugar; dressed celery or other salad; mashed turnips or squash. All are considered suitable for these birds. (1) Pluck, clean, and trass the Pigeons, and put them into a roasting-pan. Cut as many slices of bread as there are birds, toast and butter them, sprinkle over them minced mushrooms and anchovies in equal quantities, dust over with pepper, place them under the Pigeons, and roast them until done. Serve on a hot dish with the toasts under them. (2) Singe and draw four Pigeons; finely mince their livers with an equal quantity of beef-suet, hard-boiled eggs, and breadcrumbs. Season with a bunch of sweet herbs chopped fine, salt, pepper, and ground mace to taste; bind all together with the beaten yolk of an egg. Cut the skin of the Pigeons between the legs and the bodies; carefully raise the skin from the flesh with the fingers, taking care not to break it, then put in the stuffing, and truss tlie legs close to keep it in. Fix the birds on the spit, roast them in front of a clear fire, and baste them continually with butter. When cooked, take the birds up and put them on a hot dish. Mix with the gravy that has ran from them 1 wineglassful of port wine, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, thicken it with the well- beaten yolk of an egg, and boil it up; then pour it over the Pigeons, and serve hot. (3) Truss three Pigeons as for roasting, and tie a slice of fat bacon over the breast of each (see Barging). Fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the Pigeons off the spit, and remove the string or skewers, but leave the bacon on the breasts; put them on a hot dish, garnish round with watercress, pour over a rich gravy, and serve. Boasted Pigeons Stuffed with Chestnuts.—Singe and draw two Pigeons, and truss them as for roasting. Boil h pint of chestnuts, and when tender, peel, chop, and pound them in a mortar with the same quantity of finely - chopped bacon. Stuff the Pigeons with the chestnut mixture, put a vine leaf on each breast, and bind them round with a thin slice of fat bacon; fix them on the