19 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Olives—continued. butter, and pound all together until perfectly smooth. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve, and shape it into small balls. Keep them on a dish placed over ice until ready to serve. This butter is very nice eaten with crisp toast. Olive-and-Anchovy Canapes.—Stone and peel some Olives, keeping their original shape as near as possible; well wash an equal number of anchovies, and coil an anchovy round each Olive. Cut as many rounds of bread 2in. in diameter as there are Olives, and toast them lightly on both sides; butter them while hot and put an Olive on each. Spread a lace-edged disli-paper over a hot dish, arrange the toast on it, garnish with a border of fresh well-washed water- cress, and serve. This makes a very simple dish for lunch. Olive-and-Caper Canapes.—Cut six slices of bread about ijin. thick, out of which cut twelve rounds. Melt a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, then put in the rounds of bread and fry them. When nicely browned, take them out of the fat, and put them on a piece of paper to drain. Skin and bone twelve anchovies, put them in a mortar, pound them, then pass them through a fine wire sieve. Spread the anchovy paste over the pieces of bread, strew finely-chopped capers and olives on the top, place them on a baking-dish, and put them in a brisk oven for ten minutes. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish- paper over a hot dish, arrange the toasts on it, garnish with a few small pieces of parsley, and serve. Olive Custards.—Stone some Olives. Beat two eggs well, put them into a lined stewpan with 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and with a wooden spoon stir them over the fire until thickened, then remove the pan. Cut as many small rounds of bread as there are Olives, fry them in boiling butter until a bright golden brown, then drain ; spread them with a layer of anchovy paste, then a layer of the cheese mixture, and put an Olive on each. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the rounds on it, and serve. Olives and Eggs.—Remove the skins and stones from six Olives, and mince them together with a slice of cooked ham. Have ready five hard-boiled eggs, remove the shells and cut off a piece from each end so that they will stand. Cut them in halves, put the yolks into a mortar with the ham and Olives, and pound them to a smooth paste, adding hoz. of butter. Sprinkle over a little red pepper, and fill up the whites with the mixture; arrange them on an ornamental paper spread over a dish, decorate with pieces of toast and parsley (see Fig. 23), and serve. The half-eggs should have the appearance of cups, and they may be served (without the paper) with a little tartar sauce poured round them. Olives for Garnish..—Remove the stones from some large Olives by cutting them round and round in a spiral form, so that when the stones are out the Olives will retain their original form. But them into a saucepan, qiour in stock and Chablis wine in equal proportions to cover, and stew very slowly until done. Salmis of duck is usually garnished with this. Olive Ragout.—(1) With a sharp knife stone and peel some Olives; melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, then put in the Olives with a moderate quantity each of finely- chopped parsley and shallots, a few capers, a few drops of essence of anchovies, 1 wineglassful of white wine, and sufficient clear gravy to moisten nicely. Leave it on the fire until boiling, then thicken the ragout with Hour and Olives—continued. butter that have been browned over the fire. Let it simmer a little while at the edge of the fire. When ready, turn the ragoflt on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or small crotltons of bread fried in butter, and serve. (2) Put a small lump of butter in a frying-pan, place it over the fire until melted, then put in the finely-chopped white part of a large leek and 1 scant dessert-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Fry them until beginning to brown, then squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and add 1 wineglass- ful of sherry, 2 table-spoonfuls of Olive oil, 1 table-spoon- ful of finely-chopped capers, and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Turn 1 breakfast-cupful of large green Olives, and remove the stones ; put them in with the other ingre- dients, and stew the whole gently at the side of the fire for forty minutes. When ccoked, turn the ragoflt on to a hot dish and serve. (3) Cut out the stones without spoiling the shape of eighteen or twenty Italian Olives, put them into a saucepan with sufficient rich stock to cover, add 1 wineglassful of sherry, put the lid on the pan, and stew gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Turn it out when ready, and use as required for garnish or otherwise. Olive Sandwiches.— Stone the Olives and chop them up finely ; mix thoroughly with them about loz. of fresh butter and 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Cut some thin slices of bread-and-butter, and spread them with the Olive mixture ; press another slice of bread-and-butter over each, cut them into fingers, arrange them on a folded table-napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, and serve. Olive Sauce.—(1) Put twenty-four green Olives into a basin of hot water and let them remain for thirty minutes to extract all the salt. Put a small slice of onion into a sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and as soon as the onion commences to colour add 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir well until the flour is perfectly smooth. Pour in 1 pint of rich stock, and remove the pan to the side of the fire where the stock can simmer gently. Remove the stones from the Olives by cutting the fruit as for OLIVES for Garnish, add them to the sauce, season with salt and pepper, and simmer for twenty minutes longer. Skim well, and when ready to serve squeeze in the juice of a lemon. If a thin sauce is desired, 1 teaspoonful of flour will be quite sufficient. (2) Put 3oz. of stoned Olives into a saucepan of boiling water, let them remain for five minutes, and then turn them into cold water to soak for an hour. Take them out, drain, place them in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of rich stock, and cook slowly for a-quarter-of-an-hour ; when ready to serve, add the juice of half a lemon. (3) Stir 1 table-spoonful of flour into 4 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and mix in half-a-dozen chopped shallots, a bay-leaf, a little chopped lemon-peel, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, J pint of stock, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the saucepan containing them over the fire, and boil for twenty minutes or so. Strain into another saucepan, add eight or so chopped stoned Olives, warm, and it is then ready for use. (4) Put some butter into a stewpan, and when melted add some finely-chopped parsley and scallions. Stir well until they colour, then add a small quantity each of gravy or broth, white wine, capers, and anchovies pounded with Olive oil. Add a few stoned Olives, boil up over a clear fire, with butter kneaded in flour, and the sauce is then ready for use. (5) Stone half a-dozen or more Olives, and cut them into small pieces ; finely mince five or six shallots and a small piece of thinly-pared lemon-peel. Put 1 table-spoon- ful of Hour into a stewpan, and mix 1 teacupful of salad- oil smoothly in with it; add the chopped shallots and lemon-peel, moisten with 1 wineglassful of vinegar and a moderate quantity of clear stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a bay-leaf. Boil the sauce gently for twenty minutes; next strain and return it to the stewpan with the Olives, and let it simmer for two or three minutes longer. The sauce is then ready for serving, and makes a very nice accompaniment to minced mutton. For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils, Sauces, referred to, see under their special heads. C 2