59 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Marrow—continued. sugar. Let it remain in the oven for two minutes, take it out, and serve very hot, or it will lose all its best qualities. Ox-Marrow on Toast.—(1) Take out the marrow from some bones, keeping it as large as possible, and put it into a saucepan of well-salted boiling water ; let it remain for one minute, and then drain off the water through a Fig. 75. Ox-Marrow on Toast. very fine sieve. Take out the marrow, put it on some pieces of toasted bread, place them in the oven, and cook for five minutes or so. Sprinkle over chopped parsley, salt, and pepper, and serve very hot. See Fig. 75. (2) Stop up the ends of a marrow-bone with a mixture of flour and water made into a stiff paste, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. Have ready some pieces of toasted bread, scoop out the marrow on to them, sprinkle over salt and pepper and a little finely-chop ped parsley, warm the pieces of toast thoroughly in tlie oven, and serve hot. Ox-Muzzles.—It is said that an artistic cook can make a tasty dish out of any material that is, or can be made soft enough to be eaten. This would appear to be fully borne out by the two following receipts converting Ox- snouts into luxuries: Curried Ox-Muzzle.- -Take a boiled Ox-muzzle and divide it into middling-sized squares; chop one onion, fry it in a stewpan with butter, without allowing it to take colour, add it to the pieces of meat, fry them also, and sprinkle over 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and the same quantity of curry powder. Two minutes later moisten (off the fire, and by degrees) with broth and a little white wine; add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, stir over the fire till it begins to boil, and then remove to the side to simmer. Twenty-five minutes after, skim the fat off the sauce and thicken with two or three yolks of eggs diluted with cream. Finish by squeezing in the juice of two lemons, and dish up with a border of rice. Ox-Muzzle stewed in Piquant Sauce.—Singe an Ox-muzzle, soak it for a few hours, put it into a stewpan with water, and let it boil; then drain the muzzle, sponge it, and scrape its inside in order to disengage the white skin. Let it boil, and carefully remove the fillet of the palate as soon as it is done. When the muzzle is cooked sufficiently, drain it, cut it, as well as the palate, into middling-sized squares, and put them into a stewpan. Pour in piquant sauce to nearly their height, and let the stew simmer over a very slow lire for a-quarter-an-hour. Dish up quite plain. Ox-Palates.—These are the thick white corrugated linings of the upper jaws of the Ox, constituting the roof Fig. 76. Imitation Cocks’ Combs for Garnish, made of Ox-Palates. of the mouth, and extending from the front teeth to the posterior opening of the nose. They are not Ox- Palates—continued. peculiar for fine flavour, but for their firm gelatinous consistency, which permits them to be made up into a variety of dishes. One use to which they are especially adapted is that of making artificial cocks’ combs (see Fig. 76), cut out with either a pair of sharp scissors or a punch (see Fig. 77) specially made for the purpose. Aftereaux of Ox-Palates. Cut up a few boiled Ox- palates into squares of iin., and place them in a kitchen basin; season, mix in 3 table-spoonfuls, of cooked sweet herbs, and add half their volume of truffles and mushrooms cut the same size as the Ox-palates. Run PuNCH for Imitation Cocks’ Combs. small skewers through the squares of meat, truffles, and mushrooms, and dip them into some villeroy sauce which has been preparing at the same time, and is still warm. Set them on a baking-slieet, at small distances, and let the sauce cool. Afterwards take them off the baking-slieet, roll them in breadcrumbs, dip into beaten eggs, and bread once more. When wanted, plunge into hot hog’s lard, and as soon as they assume a nice colour, drain, and dish up on a folded napkin with plenty of fried parsley round. Blanquette of Ox-Palates with Truffles. Rub some Ox- palates over with salt, put them in a saucepan with a slice of lemon, a small lump of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and water enough to cover, and stew them. Cut some truffles into pieces the size of a shilling, season them with salt, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry lightly over a brisk fire till cooked. Put the truffles into a sauce a la blanquette, give them one boil up, move the sauce to the side of the fire, and thicken with a liaison of beaten eggs. Drain the palates, skin them, put them into the sauce, then turn the whole into a deep dish, and serve. Bouchees of Ox-Palate.—Chop up two cold cooked Ox- palates into very small pieces, and put them into a saucepan with one-third of their bulk of chopped cooked mushrooms; pour a few table-spoonfuls of very good be- chamel sauce into another saucepan, reduce it, stirring continually, and adding gradually h teacupful of melted glaze. Add it to the salpipon of Ox-palates and mushrooms, and put the saucepan containing them into the bain-marie to keep hot. Have ready some bouchees cases made of puff' paste, remove the top, put in some of the mixture, cover them over, arrange on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Braised Ox-Palates.—Put two Ox-palates into a basin of salted water, and let them soak for a few hours; take them Fig. 78. Braised Ox-Palates. out, put them into a saucepan of salted water, and parboil them, so that the hard skin may be easily scraped off. Wash them well, put them into another saucepan, and add some carrot, onion, and celery cut into pieces, a few