170 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. (2) Clean and singe two ears, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil for thirty minutes; then take them out and keep them warm. In the meantime make a forcemeat with 5oz. of breadcrumbs, 4oz. of finely-chopped beef-suet, Fig. 221. Stuffed Pigs’ Ears. and salt and pepper to taste, binding them all together with the yolks of two well-beaten eggs. Stuff the ears with this forcemeat by raising the skin of the upper side, put them into a frying-pan with 2oz. of butter, and fry to a light brown. Take out the ears when they are done, and drain them on a cloth. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of rich stock or gravy into a saucepan, and add 1 wine- glassful of sherry, loz. of butter rolled in flour, 3 table- spoonfuls of made mustard, a small onion, and a small quantity of cayenne. Warm these all together, add the ears, cover over the pan, and stew gently for half-an-hour with the cover on the pan, and tossing it frequently. When done, take out the onion, which must be whole, place the ears on a dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Pig’s Feet.—Sometimes these are fastidiously called pettitoes, from the French petit—small. Pig’s feet are considered a very great delicacy, and can be prepared in any of the following modes. They require great care, and must be thoroughly scalded and scraped before cooking. The feet of the young animal are the best for culinary purposes. They are often prepared in com- bination with other parts of the Pig, such as the fry, ears, &c. Boiled Pig’s Feet.—Wash some Pig’s feet well, put them over the fire in a stewpan with just enough water to cover, and as soon as the water boils take the feet from the fire, strain off the water, and plunge them into a bowl of cold water. Clean the stewpan and put the feet into it again, with 2qts. of water, 1 table-spoonful each of salt and vinegar, and 1 oz. of Hour blended smoothly in a little cold water. Put the pan over the fire and stir the contents till they boil; then draw the stewrpan to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly for four hours. Place the feet on a hot dish, pour over some good white sauce, and serve hot. Broiled Pig’s Feet.—(1) Thoroughly clean as many Pig’s feet as are required, split them lengthwise in halves, tie them round with broad tape so that they will not open or shrink in cooking, put them into a saucepan with a seasoning of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, allspice, carrots, and onions, with sufficient water to cover, and boil gently till tender, then let them cool in the liquor. Dip them into beaten yolks of eggs and warmed butter, sprinkle them with salt and pepper to taste, and cover with breadcrumbs, seasoned with very finely-chopped shallot and parsley. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until well and evenly browned. Unbind and arrange them on a dish and garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 222); or they can be served with Robert sauce. (2) Split four good-sized, boiled Pig’s feet into halves, place them on a deep dish, season with 1 pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of oil, and roll them well in breadcrumbs. Broil for four minutes on each side. Pour on to a dish J pint of hot piquant sauce, to which has been added 1 teaspoonful of diluted mustard, and Figs—continued. arrange the feet in it; or they may be served with maitre-d’hotel butter. (3) Stuffed.—Mince Jib. of lean pork and Jib. of bacon, mix with it some finely-pounded trimmings of" raw truffles, sweet herbs, salt, spices, and a little cayenne. Scald the required quantity of split Pig’s feet, bind them round with broad tape, put them in a stewpan with some carrots, turnips, and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt. When the feet are tender, take them out, drain, untie the tapes, take out the bones, and cut off all the sinewy parts. Stuff the feet with the mince and some slices of highly-seasoned raw truffles, bind eacli foot round with a square of Pig’s caul, dip them in melted lard and Fig. 222. Broiled Pig’s Feet. breadcrumbs, put the feet on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil for twenty minutes, turning so as to cook them equally. Pour some hot gravy on a shallow dish, arrange the feet in it, and serve. Crepinettes of Fig’s Feet.—Put the four feet of a Pig into a saucepan of water, and boil them until they are quite tender; take them out, drain, and cut them up into slices about Jin. in thickness. Put some Pig’s caul into a basin of water to steep, take it out, drain, and wipe it dry on a cloth. Prepare some forcemeat with knuckle of veal and fat bacon in equal quantities and mixed with a little spiced salt; spread a layer of this over the caul about Jin. thick, 3in. long, and 1 Jin. wide. Have ready some truffles, cooked in Madeira and cut in slices, arrange a few of them on the forcemeat and then a few pieces of the Pig’s feet. Cover over the whole with another layer of the forcemeat, and then roll over the caul so as to form an oval, 3in. in length and 2in. in width. When the required number of crepinettes are made, dip them into warmed butter, then roll them in breadcrumbs, place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil slowly for a-quarter-of- an-hour, when they should have attained a light brown colour. Put them on a dish, and serve with a little perigueux sauce in a sauceboat. Fricasseed Pig’s Feet and Bars.—(1) Clean and wash the feet and ears of a Pig, cut them up into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of milk, and boil for an hour. Put the pieces of meat (after straining off the liquor) into another saucepan, together with 1 breakfast- cupful of veal broth, a small onion, the peel of half a lemon, and a little powdered mace. Simmer gently at the side of the fire until all are cooked, then mix in 1 gill of cream, loz. of butter well rolled in flour, and l salt- spoonful of salt. Warm up again, turn all out on to a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Put some Pig’s ears and feet (that have been par- boiled or pickled without vinegar) into a saucepan with sufficient milk to cover, and boil until quite tender. Take them out, cut the feet into small pieces, and the ears into strips about Jin. in width ; dry them on a cloth, put them into another saucepan with some veal broth or stock, season with mace, onion, and lemon-peel, and simmer gently for ten or fifteen minutes; thicken with flour and butter, add a small quantity of cream, cook for a minute or two, and serve. Jelly of Pig’s Feet and Ears.—Wash and clean carefully the feet and ears of a Pig, and put them in a basin of water to soak for several hours. Take them out, put