117 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. (3) Work into lib. of sifted flour Jll>. of lard or besf- dripping and 1 dessert-spoonful of salt. When thoroughly mixed, pour in enough cold water to bind it together. Flour a paste-slab or table and rolling-pin; take a part of the Paste and roll it to les; than Jin. in thickness. For the upper or outside crust of a pie, roll the Paste out thin, spread a hit of butter half the size of an egg over it, fold it up, roll it out again, and cover the pie. Place a narrow rim of Paste round the edge of the dish, and fill with the desired fruit, either raw or stewed, and cover with the rolled Paste. (4) Sift 12oz. of flour on to a board, make a bay, and work in Goz. of butter, the yolks of two eggs, joz. of salt, and about 4 teacupful of cold water. Continue to work the Paste as for ordinary Puli' Paste, hut giving it one more turn for having more butter in it. It is more difficult to blend in summer. Should the butter be too oily in summer-time, it should he iced before being used. If the Paste becomes heated it should be cut into thin slices, moistened with water, and then worked together. (5) Sift on a table lib. of flour, make a bay in the centre, pour in 1 pint of cold water, and add 2oz. of butter and J table-spoonful of salt; knead the ingredients well together with the hand for two minutes, and gra- dually and slowly incorporate the flour with the rest. Lay the Paste on a dish, and put it in a cool place for three minutes. Have ready Goz. of well-washed butter in one lump, return the Paste to the table, flatten it slightly, put the lump of butter in the centre, fold over the edges so as to enclose the butter, roll it out lengthwise with the roller, and refold the Paste into three folds. Put it again in a cool place for three minutes, then roll it again, fold it as before, and set it on the ice for five minutes. The Paste will now be ready to use, and by keeping it in the ice-chest it will remain in good con- dition for three days. Paste for Savoury Pies.—Boil about 2oz. of lard and 2oz. of dripping with 1 teacupful of water. While this is hot, mix with it smoothly sufficient flour to make a stiff Paste. Knead it well, and beat it with the rolling- pin till quite smooth. Knead it into a lump, and turn a pan down over it till it is almost cold. Then roll it to a proper thickness on a floured paste-board with a floured rolling-pin. Cut out a piece for the bottom of the pie, a piece for the top, and a long narrow piece to form the sides. Fasten the bottom to the sides by brushing egg over the edges and then pressing them well together, joining up the side edges in the same way. Fill the pie, then put on the cover, brushing the edges over with beaten egg, and pinching them together. If the pie is made in a tin mould, all the edges must be fastened together in just the same way. The tin must be well buttered before putting the Paste in, and when the pie is baked it should be slipped out of the tin and put back again into the oven to brown the sides, first brushing beaten egg all over. Paste made with Suet.—(1) _ Take all the skin off, and finely chop lib. of beef-suet, using a little flour to prevent it sticking to the knife. Mix 1 teaspoonful of baking- powder and 1 pinch of salt with lib. of flour, then put the suet in; work it into a light Paste with a little cold water, but do not make it too wet. It may be used for boiled or baked puddings and pies. (2) Put 31b. of beef suet that has been melted in a saucepan with 3 pints of cold water and 31b. of butter. Put it over the fire till nearly boiling and the suet and butter are dissolved; then pour it at once over the flour. The exact quantity cannot be stated, as some flours absorb more liquid than others. The preparation is then ready for use. (3) Boil about 2oz. of lard and 2oz. of dripping in 1 tea- cupful of water. While this is hot, mix with it smoothly flour enough to make a stiff Paste, knead it well, and beat it with a rolling-pin till quite smooth; make it into a lump and turn a pan Gown over it till it is almost cold. Then take a piece large enough for the pie, knead it into a lump, then press the knuckles of the left hand into the Paste and Pastry—continued. top of the Paste nearly in the middle, and with the right hand keep working the Paste up the back of the left hand, shifting it round and round meanwhile, forming the Paste into a circular form with a flat bottom and upright sides like an ordinary jam-pot. The Paste ought to lie stiff enough to keep in shape when the hand is withdrawn if it has not been pressed too thin or into holes. When properly raised or pressed into form the meat may be put into it and another piece of the Paste, rolled out, laid on for the cover. Brush the edges over with a little beaten egg, trim, and press them together. A small ornament for the top may be made of the trimmings of Paste. When the pie is finished, brush beaten egg over the top and sides, and bake it. Transparent Paste for Tartlets.—Warm fib. of butter without oiling it; when nearly cold again, stir in one beaten egg, and continue beating for a little while ; sift in with the butter and eggs lib. of the finest dried white flour, and make a thin Paste with it. Butter some patty- pans or tart-dishes, line them with the Paste, brush over a little water, and sift some caster sugar over; bake them at once in a moderate oven. Pastry.—Having made the Paste, the next thing for the pastrycook to do is to use it; and this brings him to the threshold of his art. He sees before him a vast array of ingenious and beautiful subjects, amongst which are to be found Patties, Pies, Tartlets, Souffles, Cakes, Yol-au-Yents, Plawns, Puddings, Bouchees, Crou- stades, Puffs, Biscuits, Decorative and Fancy Fig. 137. Dough-knife (Mathews and Son). Pastry. Most of these are described under special head- ings ; in this article the details necessarily must be of a limited character, illustrating the prime features of the art rather than the details of execution. The artistic pastry- cook, however, requires certain aids to his work beyond those already named, and these will be found described hereunder. Fig. 138. Palette-knife (Mathews and Son). One of the essentials of Pastry-making is a knife (see Fig. 137) shaped conveniently for cutting dough, such as would be required for shaping or trimming. A palette- knife (see Fig. 138) is also found very useful as well as a little instrument called a jigger (s?e Fig. 139), which has a fluted cutting-wheel at one end and corrugated pincers at the other for nipping and stamping the edge of a pie Fig. 139. Jigger. and other Pastry. Ho pastrycook would consider his apparatus complete without a set of Pastry-cutters, plain and fluted rounds, ovals, and other shapes (see Figs. 140 and 141) suitable for cutting out patterns to be used for various pimposes. The value of these cutters is shown in the manufacture of bouchees (see Fig. 142) or rissoles (see Fig. 143); they are also very useful for cutting