179 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. N Pigeons—continued. flat stewpan with some clarified butter, and cover over with a sheet of buttered paper. Cut the meat off the legs of the Pigeons, and with that, the trimmings of the fillets, and an equal quantity of poultry flesh, prepare some quenelle forcemeat; take up 6 table-spoonfuls of it, put them on a floured table, and shape each spoonful like the fillet of the Pigeons. Place them, side by side, in a buttered saute-pan, stand it in the bain-marie, and poach them ; when done, drain and leave them till cool. Dip the forcemeat fillets in beaten eggs, and roll them in breadcrumbs seasoned with sweet herbs. Fry the fillets of Pigeons, and at the same time the fillets of forcemeat, in a flat stewpan with a piece of butter. When nicely browned on both sides, drain the fat off the fillets of Pigeons, pour over them 2 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze and 1 table-spoonful of Madeira; boil it, then move the pan off the fire. Put the fillets on a hot dish in a circle, alternating them with the fillets of forcemeat, fill the centre with a puree of vegetables or chestnuts, pour a little rich brown gravy over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Fillets of Pigeons a la d’Uxelle.—Cut twelve fillets off some Pigeons, trim and beat them with a cutlet-bat, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, sprinkle with salt, and fry them over a brisk fire. When cooked and nicely browned, drain, and leave them till cold. Dip the fillets in cold d’Uxelle sauce, roll them in breadcrumbs, then egg them and roll them again in breadcrumbs. Put the fillets in a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and brown them. Arrange the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with chopped mushrooms that have been cooked in Provencale sauce, and serve with a sauceboatful of thin Spanish sauce. Fillets of Pigeons, Stuffed.—Cut the fillets off five Pigeons, remove their minion fillets, and truss them ; beat them with the wet handle of a knife, split them 'without separating them, and dust them over with salt and spices. Fry the livers and chop them up small. Chop the trimmings, minion fillets, the same quantity of fresh bacon, a small piece of ham, and a handful of cooked fine herbs, such as mushrooms, onions, truffles, and shallots; mix them all well together, and add a little melted glaze to bind it. When cool, stuff the Pigeon fillets with the mixture, pressing them slightly. Beat two eggs with a little warmed butter, dip the fillets in, then roll them in breadcrumbs. Put them on a gridiron and broil over a clear fire for fifteen minutes, turning them frequently. When cooked, arrange the Pigeons on a hot dish, and garnish round 'with green peas and crofttons of fried bread. Fricandeau of Pigeons.—Singe and draw four Pigeons, truss them as for roasting, remove the feet and pinions, lard the breasts, and stuff them with forcemeat. Place some thin slices of fat bacon in a stewpan, then a layer of veal, put in the Pigeons, also a blade of beaten mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a dust of salt and pepper; cover the birds with some more veal and bacon. Prepare with the bones and trimmings 1 pint of gravy, pour it in with the Pigeons, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents stew gently for one hour. Take the Pigeons out, skim and strain the gravy, then boil it till reduced to half its original quantity; put the Pigeons in again, and stand them over the fire for five minutes. Lay the Pigeons on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. Fricasseed Pigeons.—Singe and draw two Pigeons and wipe them well with a damp cloth. Cut them into pieces, and put them in a saucepan; pour in 1 pint each of claret and water, add a blade of mace, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and 14 table-spoonfuls of butter that has been kneaded with a little flour. Put the lid on the saucepan, and let the contents simmer for three-quarters-of-an-liour. Take the pieces of Pigeons out, put them on a hot dish, and keep them hot. Strain the gravy, and stir in with it the yolks of three eggs; when thick, pour it over the Pigeons, put some fried oysters over the top, garnish round with crofttons of fried bread, and serve. Pigeons—continued. Fried Pigeons.—Pluck and prepare three Pigeons for cook- ing, split them into halves lengthwise, remove the breast bone, and beat the flesh flat. Put the pieces in a frying-pan with 2oz. of butter and 1 pinch each of pepper and salt. When fried, put the Pigeons between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them till cold. Prepare Jib. of quenelle forcemeat, and spread it over the side of each half; roll them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in clarified fat. When cooked, put them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with a macedoine of vegetables, pour some hot brown sauce round, and serve. Fried Pigeons with. Celery.—Cut three Pigeons into halves, brush them over with egg, dip them into breadcrumbs, plunge them into a pan of boiling lard, and fry them. Have ready a puree of celery, put it on a dish, place the halves of Pigeons on top, and serve with crofttons of fried bread for garnish. Fried Pigeon Cutlets.—(1) Remove the wing-bones from four Pigeons and tuck the leg-bones inside. Cut them in halves, dust them with salt and pepper, and put them into a sautd-pan with a little butter, and fry them. When they are done, press them between two boards with a weight on top until they are cold. Dip them first in butter and then in breadcrumbs, and broil over a good fire to colour them. Place them in a circle on a dish. The cavity in the centre may be filled either with French beans, asparagus, peas, sliced mushrooms, or with a mace- doine of various vegetables. (2) Remove the flesh from the breasts of eight Pigeons, and put them into a mortar with the same bulk of calf’s udder, and well pound them, to make a forcemeat, adding two eggs, and mixing well with plenty of season- ing. Spread the forcemeat upon a buttered tin about the same thickness as a mutton chop, and let it get cold; cut it into the shape of cutlets with a knife. Put the tin over a fire to just melt the butter. Take the pinion bones, scrape them well, and use them for the bones of the mock cutlets. Dip the cutlets first into egg, then into breadcrumbs, and fry them, taking care not to let the dripping get too hot so that they will be burnt before done through. Put them in a circle on a dish with fried parsley or Italian sauce in the centre, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Jugged Figeons.—Singe and draw four Pigeons and wipe them with a damp cloth. Boil the livers, then mince and pound them. Mix with the livers the yolks of two hard- boiled eggs, the grated peel of half a lemon, and an equal • quantity of chopped beef-suet and breadcrumbs; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, and bind the in- gredients together with a well-beaten egg and a piece of butter. Stuff the birds with the forcemeat and sew up the openings. Dip them in warm water, then put them into an earthenware jar with two or three sticks of celery broken in small pieces, four cloves, three or four sprigs of thyme and parsley, and h pint of Madeira. Tie a stout piece of paper over the jar, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water up to three-parts its height, and let it simmer gently for three hours. At the end of that time, strain the gravy off the Pigeons into a stewpan, and thicken it with a little butter rolled in flour. Put the Pigeons on a hot dish, garnish round with slices of lemon, pour the gravy over, and serve. Pigeons a la Bourgeoise.—Clean and trass twro Bordeaux Pigeons, and braise them for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Stone six olives, and shape six pieces of carrots and six pieces of turnips like olives; boil them in a weak stock together with six mushrooms and eight small quenelles. When these are cooked, cut the Pigeons into four pieces each and put them on a hot dish; pour \ pint of hot brown sauce over them, arrange the vegetables and quenelles tastefully about, and garnish with nicely-shaped crofttons of fried bread. This is a very plain and unpretentious, but delicious, mode of cooking Bordeaux Pigeons. Figeons a, la Duchesse.—Clean the Pigeons, cut them into quarters, pour boiling water over the clawrs, and when sufficiently soaked trim off the skin and nails. Dust the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. O