Gfi THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils'', Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Os-Tongues—continued. lqt. of water into a saucepan with a clove, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small piece of cinnamon, and a little each of salt and pepper. Boil well for a few minutes to extract the flavour, strain the liquor into the pan with the tongue, cover with the lid, put it in the oven, and cook slowly for two hours, basting frequently with the liquor, and sprinkling in a little flour, salt, and pepper. About half-armour before the tongue is done, the juice of a lemon should be added to the gravy. Take out the tongue when done, put it on a dish, pour over 2 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze, and keep it warm. Boil the liquor, and stir in 1 table- spoonful of cornflour mixed up with a little cold water; boil for a minute longer, pour it through a sieve round the tongue, and serve with sprigs of parsley for garnish. Braised Ox Tongue in Sauce Hachee.—Steep a fresh Ox- Tongue in water till the blood is drawn out, then blanch it. Place it in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion, a bunch of parsley and thyme, a bay-leaf, and one or two cloves; put in two or three slices of fat bacon, a ladleful of broth, and braise it. When cooked, skin the tongue, and cut it into halves. Prepare a sauce hachee with some chopped gherkins, mushrooms, capers, and anchovies, and mix them in some brown Italian sauce; or, in place of the Italian sauce, put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a small saucepan, stir it over the fire till brown, then pom- in a small quantity of broth or gravy, and add the chopped herbs. Spread the tongue out on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Broiled Slices of Ox-Tongue in Cases.—Cut up into thick slices a braised Ox-Tongue, cover them with thin slices of bacon, sprinkle over a few minced sweet herbs, and wrap the whole round with pieces of greased paper, folding them in such a manner that the liquor cannot ran out. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil. When done, place them on a dish, and serve. Cold Ox-Tongue.—Boil a tongue for three hours; when cooked, skin it, trim off the rough parts of the root, and truss it a good shape by placing the root against some fixture and running a fork through the thin end into the table or board. When cold, finish trimming the tongue. Put the tongue on a dish, fix a frilled paper round the root with skewers, wet it with a little hot jelly, and garnish with parsley and chopped aspic. An imi- tation scallop shell may be carved on the tongue, commencing at the thin end and ending at the thick. Glaze it well with light glaze, spread a thick layer of aspic jelly over the tongue, and garnish it on the dish with attelettes of jelly and mushrooms. See Fig. 83. Pried Fillets of Ox-Tongue.—Cut off eight fillets from a cold boiled Ox-Tongue, having them 4m. long, 2in. wide, and Jin. thick ; dip them in hot butter, and cover with flour. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan, make it hot, place in the fillets, and brown them on both sides, taking care not to burn them. Take them out, and put them on a dish over thin strips of toast; add another table-spoonful of butter to the pan, stir in a little more than 1 teaspoonful of flour, and when this is brown add 1 table-spoonful of lemon-juice or half the quantity of vinegar, J teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and Ox-Tongues—continued. 1 breakfast-cupful of rich stock. Boil up once more, pour the sauce round the tongue, and serve with a garnish of parsley. Minced Ox-Tongue.—Cut any cold cooked Ox-Tongue into oblong-shaped pieces, cut them again transversely into slices, and put them in a saucepan with a few slices of uncooked truffle. Cut an onion and three small Jerusalem artichokes into slices and again into quarters, place them in a frying-pan with a little oil, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry over a moderate fire until done. Add 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, cook for a minute or so, and then add the pieces of tongue and truffles. Cook for three or four minutes longer, remove the pan from the fire, and pour in the juice of two lemons. Turn the mince out on to a dish, garnish with pieces of bread fried in butter, and serve. Ox-Tongues a la Financiere.—Blanch a couple of fresh Ox- Tongues, put them into a saucepan lined with vegetables cut in slices and a few small pieces of bacon, moisten with a little broth, cover the tongues with paper, put the sauce- pan on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook until the tongues are done and quite tender. Take them out, drain them, trim the thick or root ends, making them as round as possible, and with a sharp knife cut the tongues transversely to half their length and remove the top pieces. Cut these into slices, and put them back in their places. Put a flat crouton of fried bread in the centre of a dish, mask it with forcemeat poached in the oven, glaze the tongues, and put them on it, with their root ends meeting in the centre; surround the base with a ragout a la fin- aneiere, and garnish with quenelles, made with a spoon, and some larger ones studded with truffles. Serve with a sauce- boatful of brown sauce reduced with wine. Should salted tongues be used they will only require to be boiled with plenty of water until they are tender, and then treated as above. Ox-Tongue a la Gourmet.—Boil an Ox-Tongue in plenty of water for three hours. When cooked, drain it, peel the skin oft', and trim it nicely. Lard and braise four sweet- breads. Take the fillets of two or three chickens, trim them nicely, put them in a buttered saute-pan, and saut6 them. Peel sufficient potatoes that will, when mashed, fill a border mould, boil till tender, then drain, and mesh them with a little butter; press them in a border mould, and set in a bain-marie for a few minutes. When the fillets of chicken are cooked, take them out of the pan, and keep them hot. Pour 1 h pints of white sauce and J pint of veal stock into a saucepan, and boil till rather thickly reduced, stirring all the time; then mix 1 teacupful of cream with it, and season with a small quantity of moist sugar. Glaze the tongue and sweetbreads. Turn the potato border on to a hot dish, put the tongue in the centre, put two of the sweetbreads at each end, the fillets of chicken at each side, pour the sauce over them, straining it through a fine hah' sieve, and serve without delay. Ox-Tongue au Gratin.—Moisten about 4oz. of crumb of bread with a little clear gravy; when the bread is soft, put it in a mortar with 2oz. of butter, a moderate quantity each of finely-chopped lemon-thyme, tarragon-leaves, and parsley, a few capers, and two boned, washed, and chopped anchovies, and pound until quite smooth. Cut some cold, cooked Ox-Tongue into neat slices, put a layer of the forcemeat in a dish that will stand the heat of the oven and can be served at table, then arrange the pieces of tongue on the top and cover them with another layer of the stuffing. Put a few small slices of butter on the top, and place the dish in a quick oven. In about a-quarter-of- an-hour’s time take the dish out of the oven, and if not sufficiently coloured on the top brown it under a sala- mander. Serve while hot. Ox-Tongue a, la Terrapin.—Put a salted Ox-Tongue into a saucepan of water and boil it until quite tender; take it out, strain, and cut it lengthwise . in halves. Stick a few cloves in them, put them into another saucepan with sufficient water to cover, add an onion cut in slices, a little mace, and browned flour, boil for a few minutes; and put in three finely-chopped hard-boiled eggs, remove the pan