THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 29 For details raspectiny Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. purpose of reducing their flavour. Slice the Onions, put them in a salad-howl with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, about 1 teacupful of vinegar, and R- teacupfuls of salad-oil; season with pepper and salt, toss the salad about to mix it, then serve with toasted crackers. Fig. 41. Spanish-Onion-and-Potato Croquettes. Spanish-Onion Sauce.—Remove the peel and first skin from about half-a-dozen large Spanish Onions, cut them nearly through, put them into a saucepan with 4qts. of water, and boil until they are tender. The water should be changed when they are about half done, which will be in about thirty minutes. Take them out, drain, chop them very fine, put them into a saucepan with 4oz. of butter, sprinkle over a little flour and salt, and cook gently until the butter is melted. Stir well; add \ teacupful of cream, warm, and serve in a sauceboat. Spanish-Onion Soup.—(1) Peel half-a-dozen large Spanish Onions, cut and separate them into rings, and fry in a little butter until they are of a light brown colour, and quite tender. Take them out, drain them on a fine sieve, and put them into a saucepan with 5qts. of water. Put the pan on the fire, boil for an hour, stirring frequently, and add salt and pepper to taste. Add the finely-sifted crumb of a roll, and stir well in order to thoroughly in- corporate it. Boil for two hours longer, and just before serving add the yolks of two eggs beaten into 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar and a small quantity of the soup. Mix this in, stirring one way, pour it into a tureen, and serve. Soup prepared in this way will keep for four or five days. (2) Put ten Spanish Onions into a saucepan with suffi- cient milk and water in equal proportions to cover, and boil them until they are quite soft. The milk and water should be changed once or twice during the process. Rub them through a fine sieve and keep them warm in another saucepan. In the meantime put 2lb. of veal (or a fowl cut into pieces) into a saucepan with ^ gall, of water and a blade of mace, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain the liquor into the pan with the Onions and add the grated crumb of a roll mixed into 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Sprinkle in a little cayenne and salt, pour it into a tureen, and serve. A few asparagus-heads or spinach, if added, are a great improvement to the flavour of the soup. (3) Peel some moderate-sized Spanish Onions, put them into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil until nearly tender, then drain off the water, and replace it with suffi- cient milk and clear stock to make the soup; continue boiling them until quite tender, when pass the whole through a fine sieve. Return the soup to the saucepan, season it to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it up again. Move it off the fire, put in loz. of butter broken into small pieces, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast or small crohtons of bread that have been fried in butter. (4) Put 61b. of knuckle of veal in a saucepan over the fire with a little salt, 1 dessert-spoonful of white pepper, a few blades of mace, and lgall. of water. Let it boil till the meat separates from the bone, then strain off the stock and let it stand all night, skimming it the next day. Boil nine or ten large Spanish Onions in milk and water till quite soft, rub them through a sieve, and put them over the fire with the strained and skimmed stock; let it boil up, add about 4oz. of butter with 2 table-spoonfuls of Onions—continued. ground rice, and let it simmer for half-an-hour, stirring continually. A few minutes before taking it from the fire, add and stir in \ pint of cream, let it get very hot, pour it into a tureen, and serve. Spanish-Onion Soup a la Parisienne.—Chop up four large Onions and fry them in a little butter. Add a small quantity of sugar, and when the Onions are of a light golden colour put them into a saucepan with Jgall. of warmed broth, a little parsley, and a bay-leaf, and boil for eight minutes. Put some thin slices of toast in a tureen, arranging them in layers, sprinkle with pepper, pour the soup over them, and serve. Spanish-Onion-and-Tomato Salad.—Put some parboiled Spanish Onions and tomatoes that have been peeled and scalded into a salad-bowl, and mix in some parsley, chervil, and tarragon, with salt and pepper to taste. Stir these up and mix thoroughly with a little olive oil and sufficient vinegar to taste. This salad should be prepared at least five hours before it is required for use, so that the taste of the Onions will be thoroughly incorporated. Steamed Stuffed Onions—(1) Peel eight large Onions and boil them for ten minutes in a saucepan of very slightly salted water. Take them out, drain them quite dry, and push out about half the insides. Chop the part taken out very small together with a little sausage-meat, and add 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, one egg, and a little salt and pepper to taste. Put this mixture into the cavity of the Onions, piling it a little on the top and bottom so that none of it shall be left. Arrange them in a deep pan, put it in a steamer over a saucepan of water, and steam gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Put the pan into the oven to brown the tops of the Onions, adding 1 breakfast- cupful of gravy to prevent them burning. Arrange them tastefully on a dish, and serve very hot. Stewed Onions.—(1) Peel and wash twelve Onions, chop- ping off' the tops and bottoms ; cut them in halves, mince them very fine, blanch them to give them a sweeter taste and remove the green colour, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and cook them. When quite done and all the moisture evaporated, mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce (see SAUCES). Sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, rub them through a fine sieve, and keep hot in a saucepan without letting them boil. A small lump of sugar may be added if desired. If a highly- flavoured sauce is required, the Onions should be put in a stewpan with a little ham, mace, and bay-leaf, and cooked gently for an hour. (2) Peel, wash, and mince twelve Onions, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, anil fry them brown. Add a little Spanish sauce to moisten them, strain through a fine sieve, and they are then ready for use. (3) Peel the required quantity of Onions, flour them well, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them, but not enough to blacken them. Put them into a stewpan with a small quantity of gravy, season to taste with salt and pepper, cover over the pan, and stew for two hours. They are then ready for serving. (4) Peel a dozen small Onions, boil them for fifteen minutes in salted water, then drain them. Put 1 table- spoonful each of flour and butter into a frying-pan, and when the flour is well browned pour in 1 wineglassful of red wine and 1 pint of broth (see Broths). Warm this, piit in the Onions, together with a small quantity of parsley, thyme, cloves, and bay-leaf, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the Onions are quite done. Take them out, put them on a dish, and pour over the reduced sauce through a strainer. Stewed Onions and Eggs.—Peel six or eight very large sound Onions. Melt a small quantity of butter in a stew- pan, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and cook; then put in the Onions, moisten with milk, cream, or water, and stew until done, taking care that the Onions do not brown, and that the butter is not discoloured. Season with salt and pepper, then add eight hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, warm up without boiling, turn out on to a dish, arrange the slices of egg round, and serve. See Fig. 42.