146 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads- Pears—continued. Fears—continued. with an equal proportion of pale brandy, and leave it till nearly cold. When quite cold, pour the syrup and brandy on the Pears, cork and tie bladders over the bottles, and keep them in a cool store cupboard. (5) If the Pears are not large, peel them whole, leaving the stalks on and just scraping off the outside. Have ready a lined pan containing cold water, slightly acidu- lated with lemon-juice and a pinch of bruised alum, and drop the Pears in it as they are done. Let the Pears simmer till half done, but do not boil them. Refresh the Pears in two separate cold waters, drain them on a sieve, then put them carefully in some wide-mouthed bottles, but do not press them down. Fill them up with syrup boiled to 38 deg. (see Syrups), and slightly acidulated with citric acid and alum. Cork and tie the bottles down, stand them in a deep saucepan with water to half their height, and let it boil for fifteen minutes. To keep the bottles from breaking, a good plan is to put some straw or hay between them, so that they cannot knock together. The Pears should be kept in a dry store cupboard. (6) Pare some Pears very thinly, cut them lengthwise in halves, and remove the cores. Weigh them, and for every pound allow fib. of loaf sugar that has been crushed for preserving. Put the Pears and sugar, evenly propor- tioned, into jars, and moisten with a small quantity of water. Put into each jar a moderate quantity of lemon- juice and thin strips of lemon-peel, stand the jars in a saucepan of boiling water, and keep simmering gently until the Pears are tender. When cooked, colour the Pears with a few drops of cochineal, stand the jars in a dry place, cover with a cloth to keep out the dust, and leave them all night. On the following day cover the jars with bladder, tie down securely, anil stow them away in a dry store cupboard. Stewed Pears.—(1) Cut some Pears lengthwise in halves and remove the cores. Place them in a stewpan, the cut side upwards; put in ill), of caster sugar, pour over them \ pint of red wine and a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover them. Add a few cloves and the thinly-pared rind of a lemon, and stew them gently at the side of the fire. When tender, arrange the Pears on a dish, strain their syrup through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve. (2) Wash the required quantity of dried Pears, remove the stalks, and cut them each into four pieces across. Arrange the Pears in a large stone jar, cover them with hot water, put the lid on the jar, and leave them for twelve or fourteen hours. At the end of that time, strain some of the liquor off the Pears into a stewpan, sweeten it to taste ■with caster sugar, put in about | table-spoon- ful of cloves, and boil it for two or three minutes, then take it off the fire, and leave till cold. Arrange the Pears in a glass bowl, pass the liquid through a fine hair sieve over them, put in five or six small lumps of ice, and serve. (3) Peel six Pears, cut them into quarters, and lay them in a saucepan with 1 pint of cold water, adding |lb. of granulated sugar. When the contents of the pan come to a boil, skim well, and flavour with the juice of half an orange or the same quantity of lemon, and 1 salt- spoonful of ground cinnamon if desired. Cook for five minutes longer, and with a spatula stir slowly from the bottom to avoid mashing the Pears. Remove from the fire, pour into a bowl, and cool thoroughly before serving. (4) Select nice-cooking Pears of as near one size as possible, peel them carefully, leaving the stalks on, and scoop out the cores from the broad ends. Lay them closely together in a lined stewpan, the stalks uppermost, put in plenty of sugar, a stick of cinnamon, five or six cloves, the juice of half a lemon, 1 wineglassful of port wine, and sufficient water to reach to height. Cover the stewpan with the lid, and stew the contents at the edge of the fire until the Pears are tender. When cooked, drain the Pears and arrange them carefully and prettily in a glass dish. Mix a small quantity of arrowroot with the syrup and boil until thickened, stirring at the same tiraq, being very careful not to let it burn at all. When ready, strain it, and leave tiil cold. Afterwards pour the syrup over the Pears, and serve them. Stewed. Fears with Rice.—(1) Peel and cut four large Pears in halves, put them in a lined pan, with Jib. of caster sugar and 1 pint of claret, and let them boil gently till tender. Wash |lb. of rice and boil it in milk, sweet- ening to taste. Turn the rice on to a hot dish, drain the Pears, and arrange them on it. Reduce the cooking liquor of the Pears to half its original quantity, then pour it over the Pears, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Peel four large cooking Pears, cut them in halves and core them, put them in a stewpan with Jib. of loaf sugar, a quarter of a stick of vanilla, and 3 pints of water, and let them boil gently till cooked. Wash 6oz. of rice, put it in a saucepan with I \ pints of milk, 4oz. of caster sugar, and a quarter of a stick of vanilla, and boil it gently for an hour. Put the rice when cooked on a hot dish, drain the Pears, and arrange them on it; boil the syrup till reduced, then pour it over the Pears, and serve. (3) Peel and core fifteen Rousselet Pears, put them in a preserving-pan with some syrup and a smali quantity of prepared cochineal, and boil them till tender. Prepare a rice croustade 2in. high and the same size as the dish on which it is to be served. Wash \ pint of rice in two or three waters, and boil it in lqt. of milk, adding sugar to taste. When tender, turn it on to the croustade. Drain the Pears, arrange them on the rice, ornament them with preserved cherries and heart-shaped pieces of candied angelica. Strain the syrup and boil it till reduced, pour it over the Pears, and serve. Almost any stewed fruit makes a nice dish if prepared as described above. Stewed Pears in White Sauce.—Select small Pears as nearly as possible of one size, peel them, put them in a saucepan, cover them with a thin syrup, add the thinly- pared rind of a lemon, and stew them gently until tender. When cooked, arrange the Pears in a glass dish; thicken | pint of milk with potato flour, mix it with the syrup in which the Pears were stewed, and strain it over the fruit. Serve when cold. Stuffed Pear.—Select a large beurre Pear, not too ripe, and peel it, but do not remove the stalk. Cut the Pear lengthwise about two-thirds of its height from the side on which it is lying. Empty the thick part by means of a vegetable spoon. Cook the pieces of Pear by boiling in a little sugar and water, but keep them firm, then leave them till cool in the syrup. Drain the Pear on a cloth. Put a layer of cooked rice and cream on a dish, put the thick part of the Pear on it, fill the hollow with a salpifon of fruits thickened with a little apricot marmalade, put the other piece of Pear on the top, and arrange a circle of crystallized greengages round it (see Fig. 195). Reduce the syrup, flavour with a little vanilla extract, and pour it when cold over the Pear. FEAR, PRICKLY.—See Prickly Pear. PEARL-BARLEY—See Barley. PEARL-MOSS .—Another name for Carrageen. PEEL.—See Candied-Peel. FEELING-.—Although this operation can scarcely be regarded as one presenting any great difficulty, yet, unless judiciously performed, it may cause great