976 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. moderate 'ire, frequently turning, and when they are done put some paper frills on the bones, and place them in a circle on a dish on which a macedoine of vegetables of different kinds and shades thickened with bechamel sauce and reduced with a little glaze has been piled in the centre. Serve with a boatful of half-glaze separately. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with Mushroom Sauce.—Take the cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton, saw the bones off short, trim them to a nice shape, removing the gristle and fat, and beat them flat with a cutlet-bat. Mix with the beaten yolk of an egg, in small quantities, some finely-chopped parsley, thyme, and marjoram, also some grated breadcrumb, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Cover the cutlets with the mixture, and wrap each one sepa- rately in a sheet of buttered paper. Trim off the stalks from J pint of mushrooms, wash and chain them, and put them into a stewpan with -1 pint of nicely-flavoured gravy, and boil gently until tender. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until brown, then strain in the gravy from the mushrooms, and continue stirring until it boils. Put the cutlets on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, remove the paper and arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, put the mushrooms in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with New Carrots a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Trim some rather thick cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton to a nice shape, leaving very little fat on them. Peel some new carrots and cut them into halves, unless they are very small; boil them in salted water until tender, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a large piece of butter and some finely-minced parsley; dust them over with pepper and a small quantity of caster sugar, and squeeze in the juice of half a lemon; toss them about over the fire until nicely glazed, then move them to the side and keep hot. Broil the outlets over a clear but not too fierce fire, turning them when done on one side. When the cutlets are cooked, dredge them over with salt, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, each cutlet overlapping the other, pile the carrots in the centre, and serve. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with Tomato Sauce.—Trim the cutlets to a nice shape, and roll them in butter which has been slightly warmed; dust over with salt and pepper on both sides, place them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour some thick tomato sauce in the centre, and serve. Broiled Mutton Steak.—Cut a leg of Mutton in halves, sawing through the bone, and take a slice off each about fin. thick; sprinkle them on both sides with salt and pepper, and put them on a gridiron over a clear fire to broil. When done, put them on a dish, pour over a little mushroom ketchup or Harvey’s or Worcestershire sauce, and serve very hot. Broiled Mutton flteak with Tomato Sauce.—Cut off a slice about Hin. thick from the thickest part of a leg of Mutton, sawing through the bone. Beat it a little with a cutlet-bat to make it flat and even, put in a deep dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, cover it well with oil and parsley-leaves, and let it remain for several hours to macerate, so as to make the meat quite tender. Put it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil gently for twenty-five minutes, basting and turning it frequently. When quite done, put it on a dish, pour tomato sauce round it, and serve. Broiled Neck of Mutton.—Put a neck of Mutton into a saucepan with a little water and boil it slowly until it is nearly done. Take it out, cover it with breadcrumbs and sweet herbs, moisten with beaten egg, and brown it in a Dutch oven before a clear fire. Put it on a dish, pour brown gravy round, and serve. Broiled Neck-of-Mutton Cutlets.—Saw off the chine-bone from a neck of Mutton and cut off the chops, together For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Mutton—continued. with about lin. of meat from the long bone; remove the fat and gristle, and flatten the chops a little with a cutlet-bat. Put them into a basin with a little milk, and cover vdth breadcrumbs pressed on as thickly as possible; then dip them into warmed butter and again into bread- crumbs, dust them over with salt and pepper, and broil over a clear fire until done. Put a pile of mashed potatoes on a dish, lay the cutlets round it, and serve. Carbonnadoed Mutton. -The name carbonnades, from this dish, is given to that part of a neck of Mutton from the point where the cutlets end and the loin commences. Select four carbonnades, chop them in halves, remove the bone from between the. larger fillet and the smaller one with- out taking out the minion fillet, trim off all the fat, and re-cover the loins. Lard the loins with strips of fat bacon, fold the skirt underneath, tying it round with string, put them into a saucepan covered at the bottom with vege- tables cut into slices, a few cloves and peppercorns, and a small bunch of sweet herbs ; sprinkle them over with salt, and pour in 1 wineglassful of good broth. Reduce the. moisture over a brisk fire to half-glaze, and then pour in sufficient broth and white wine to nearly cover. Boil quickly for six minutes, then remove the pan to the side of the fire, cover it, and braise the loins, basting fre- quently with the liquor. When done, take them out, glaze them, remove the string, put them on a dish, pom- over the liquor mixed with a little tomato sauce, and serve very hot. Carbonnadoed Mutton with Cream.—Saw off the spine- bone from three carbonnades of Mutton, cut off the skin and fat from the minion fillet, double the skirt part under- neath, keeping it in its place with wooden skewers. Put some vegetables cut in slices at the bottom of a sauce- pan, and add a small bunch of sweet herbs and a few peppercorns and cloves; put in the meat, and pour over sufficient broth to cover it. Place the pan over a sharp fire, boil quickly for eight minutes or so, then remove it to the side, cover the meat with paper, put the lid on the pan, place hot ashes on it, and complete the cooking- very gently, basting and turning it frequently. When done, take the carbonnades out, drain them, remove the bone between the loin and minion fillet, and put them between two dishes to cool and flatten. Cut them in halves, trim them square, cutting away all the fat from the larger fillet, and dip them into some good bechamel sauce reduced with a little of the stock. Place them on a baking-sheet to cool, and let them remain for thirty minutes; then dip them into a mixture of well-beaten eggs and clarified butter, roll them in breadcrumbs, and put them into a moderate oven in a well-buttered sautd-pan, to give them a good colour, basting them frequently with a brush dipped in clarified butter. When done, and quite hot, put them on a dish and serve with mashed turnips for a garnish. Casseroles of Mutton.—Put some large boiled potatoes into a saucepan and beat them well up with loz. of butter, the yolks of three eggs, and a little grated nutmeg; sprinkle over a little salt and pepper. Work this mass vigorously over the fire for a few minutes and then rub it ° through a sieve; lay it in a deep flattened heap on a buttered baking-sheet, and when cold, cut it into shapes the size of a patty-pan with a round biscuit-cutter. Brush these over with egg and cover them with breadcrumbs; cut down into the top surface a little way with a smaller round cutter to form the lid of the patty. Plunge them into boiling lard and fry till light brown; take them