125 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Peas—continued. Peas have been familiar in every household, either as fresh Green Peas, or dried Split Peas as they are called. Some varieties of these are found in the dried, bottled, or tinned Green Peas, and the ground Split Pea, which is commonly known as Pea-flour or Pea-meal. All authorities acknowledge Peas in any form to be very nutritious as food. According to Poggiale the analysis of Peas gives in 100 parts: Starch ... ... ... ... ... 57-0 Legumin ... ... ... ... ... 21-7 Fatty matter 1-9 Cellulose ... ... ... ... ... 3 2 Ash 2-8 Water ... ... ... ... ... ]2-7 This shows a remarkable proportion of nutrient matter, which goes far to establish Peas in the important culinary position they occupy. Green Peas, as supplied to the vegetable market, are of various kinds, the more familiar being the Field Pea, with a short, pointed pod (see Fig. 175a), the Scimitar Pea, so-called from the pod resembling the scimitar in shape (see Fig. 175b), and the Marrow-fat Pea, large and full (see Fig. 175c). Of the varieties of Peas cultivated for the table Nicholson gives us in his “Dictionary of Gardening ” the following selected list: Earliest Sorts. —Alpha (Laxton’s), wrinkled blue marrow, six to nine in apod; American Wonder, wrinkled marrow; Beck’s Gem, round, white, smooth, about six; Blue Prussian, round, light blue, smooth; Daniel O’Rourke, round, white, smooth, rather large; Dr. Hogg, wrinkled green marrow, seven to nine; Earliest of All (Laxton’s), round, blue ; Early Dwarf Frame, round, white, smooth; Early Frame, small, very round, white, about six ; Early Sunrise (Day’s), white wrinkled marrow, large; Maclean’s Blue Peter, round, blue, very large, six to eight; Maclean’s Little Gem, green wri deled marrow; Ringleader, round, white, smooth, six or seven; William I., smooth, green marrow, of good size, seven to nine. Second Early and Main Crop.—Advancer, wrinkled blue marrow, very large, about eight in a pod; Champion of England, wrinkled blue marrow, six to nine, one of the best; Dickson’s Favourite, round, smooth-skinned; Dr. Maclean, blue wrinkled marrow, very large, about nine; Duke of Albany, wrinkled green marrow, large, about ten; Fillbasket (Laxtons), round, light green, of good size, seven to nine; G. F. Wilson (Carter’s), wrinkled blue marrow, very large, somewhat flattened, six to eight; Gladiator, wrinkled marrow, deep green, of excellent quality; Maclean’s Wonderful, wrinkled marrow, of excellent flavour; Marvel (Laxton s) wrinkled white marrow, very green, seven to nine; Prodigy, green wrinkled marrow, of excellent quality and flavour, about ten ; Stratagem (Carter’s), wrinkled manow, very large, nine to eleven; Supreme (Laxton’s), smooth, green marrow, large, of fine flavour; Telegraph (Culverwell’s), wrinkled marrow, large, deep green, of excellent flavour, nine to eleven; Telephone (Carter’s), wrinkled marrow, large, of first-rate quality, eight to ele\ en; Veitch’s Perfection, wrinkled blue marrow, com- pressed, large, one of the best. Late Sorts.—British Queen, wrinkled white marrow, large, tender, about eight in a pod; Culverwell’s Giant Marrow, blue, wrinkled, large, of the finest quality; King of the Marrows, wrinkled, green, large, oblong, six to eight; Maclean’s Best of All, wrinkled green marrow, large, five to eight; Ne Plus Ultra, wrinkled green marrow, very large, of first rate quality, seven to nine ; Omega (Laxton’s), wri ikied green marrow, very large, dark green, of excellent quality, eight to ten; Prizetaker, green marrow, smooth, misshapen from being, compressed in the pod, six to ten; Sturdy (Laxton’s), wrinkled green marrow, large, dark green, of excellent quality, six to nine. Fresh Green Peas are in season for only a very limited period of the summer months; but as they lend them- selves to the formation of so many good dishes, a system of preserving them soft and green in bottles originated Peas—co ntinued. in France and has been since extensively followed up in America. One grave objection to this mode of preserving was the use of copperas to retain the green colour ; this has however now ceased as a practice, the bottled Peas being perfectly pure and maintaining sufficient of their green colour without the aid of chemicals. The following may be considered reliable instructions for bottling: Shell the Peas, and pick out the largest and best, as these only should be used ; put them into wide-mouthed bottles and cork tightly, rendering them perfectly air-tight. Put the bottles in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to reach to their necks, placing a little hay between each to prevent them knocking together and breaking. Put the lid on the saucepan, place it over the fire, and when the water boils move the saucepan to the side and keep the water at the same heat for nearly two hours; the lid should be on the saucepan all the time. Leave the bottles in the water until cold, when they should be dried and the nozzles dipped in bottle-wax. Keep them in a cool dry place. Tinned Peas, or “canned” as the Americans call them, are not so reliable or tasty as bottled Peas, for some reason or other unexplained. The following is the process by which they are prepared : Shell the desired quantity of young freshly-gathered Peas, put them into a saucepan with plenty of water anil a little salt, and boil for about ten minutes. Strain off the water and put the Peas by means of a large funnel into tins already prepared for them, filling them to within a jin. of the top; stand the tins in a pan of water and boil slowly for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Before the boiling ceases, take the tins out one at a time, dry them, and solder the lids down before they cool so as to exclude the air. Fresh Green Peas.—These should be gathered early in the morning, before the sun has sufficient power to dry any of the moisture they may have absorbed during the night. As soon as they are shelled they should be rinsed in cold water and the defective ones picked out. Some cooks contend that washing spoils them, but that is merely a matter of prejudice, and has no foundation in fact. It is also advisable that all the Peas Fig. 176. Pea-shelling Machine (A. Lyon). forming one boiling should be as near one size as pos- sible. A very ingenious machine (see Fig. 176) has been invented, by which Peas can be shelled with extraordinary rapidity, a very great convenience when large quantities are used. Boiled Green Peas.—Shell 1 peck of Fresh Green Peas; wash them in water. Put the Peas into 2qts. of boil- ing water with 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil fast until they are tender (they should take about ten minutes), then drain, season with salt, pepper, and butter, and serve at once. If the Peas are to be served with lamb, a small bunch of green mint should be boiled with them. Parsley, and young onions are also boiled with green Peas when their flavours are desired; sometimes 1 teaspoonful of sugar is added to sweeten them. Buttered Green Peas.—Put some Fresh Green Peas into a saucepan with a lump of butter, a little salt, and a small