121 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. then stir in quickly Jib. of finely-sifted flour, and work it until quite smooth. Thickly hutter a flat tin, pour the mixture on to it, spreading it out to about the thickness of Ain., and bake at once for fifteen minutes in a brisk oven. When cooked, turn the Pastry on to a sieve, and leave until cool, the under-side uppermost. Spread a thin layer of apricot jam over the Pastry, then a layer of chocolate icing, and put it to dry for a minute in the oven. When quite cold, cut the Pastry into various fancy shapes, and serve. (2) Mix together Jib. each of flour and caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt; then stir in four well-beaten eggs and a liqueur-glassful of brandy. Melt ilk of butter, and mix it thoroughly with the Paste till quite smooth. Butter a cake- tin, turn the Pastry into it, and bake. It can be cut in slices when cold and served with jam between them, or it can be baked in dariole-moulds, and served hot with a fruit syrup sauce. (3) Mix 4oz. of flour with 6oz. of caster sugar, then stir in six beaten eggs, a little essence of lemons, and 4oz. of melted butter. Line a copper pan with two thicknesses of paper, pour in the preparation, and bake in a very hot oven. When cooked, take it out, and serve cold, with either fruit or preserves. German Paste Croquettes.—Sift lib. of flour on the table, make a hollow in the centre, then work in a piece of butter about the size of a walnut, a pinch of salt, three or four eggs, and sufficient water to make it of the right consistency. When thoroughly well mixed, roll the Paste out twice on a floured table, sprinkle it with flour, then cut it into small equal portions, which roll into balls. Fig. 169. Savoury Raised Pie. Arrange these on a sheet of paper, and let them dry for an hour, turning occasionally. Dip the balls in beaten eggs, then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in butter. When lightly and equally browned, drain, place them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Neapolitan Pastry.—Make a rich Puff' Paste, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, and cut it into strips nearly 2in. wide; lay these on a baking-dish a little distance from each other, so that when they spread they will not join, and bake in a quick oven. When done, take them out, mask half of them with strawberry or raspberry jam, and place the other half on top of them. Ice them with coloured icing, arrange tastefully on a fancy dish, and serve. Paste and Pastry—continued. Paste Cases for a Chinese Temple.—Boil loz. of double- refined sugar together with Joz. of butter and a little water, put it away till quite cold, and then mix into it a well-beaten egg. Work flour into this till it is a thick Paste and very stiff, and roll it out extremely thin. Lay it in a set of tins (the Paste should be cut the exact size) in graduated sizes and bake in a slow oven. When cooked, take them out and let them remain in the tins till quite cold; then remove them from the tins and join together with isinglass and water in the shape of a temple. The pieces of Paste for the lower part of the temple should be thicker and stronger than the rest, as they have to sustain the weight of the whole. The cases may after- wards be filled with light confectionery or crystallized flowers. If for confectionery, make the Paste and supports stronger. Fig. 170. Raised Pie Moulds. Paste Crowns.—Sift Hlb. of flour, put it in a basin, make a bay in the centre, into which put fib. of moist sugar, the grated rinds of two lemons, fib. of fresh butter, and ten eggs. Knead all well to a Paste, and if the Paste should be too thin add more flour. Cut this Paste into small pieces, and roll them to the length and thickness of fingers. Form an edge to each of these pieces of Paste by pressing them with a thin rolling-pin or round stick about the size of an office-ruler from about half their own thickness, then turn them into little crowns, the thin edge uppermost. Moisten the ends and anneal them; lay them on white paper, and bake in not too hot an oven. Dip them in white sugar icing and return them to the oven for a minute. Paste Plaits.—Prepare a sufficient quantity of Puff Paste, put it on a floured table, and roll it out to about Jin. in thickness; cut it into three strips of an equal length and width, stick the three of them together at one end with beaten egg, and plait them. When plaited, stick them together at the other ends with the egg. Brush lightly over with a paste-brush dipped in the beaten egg, lay it on a buttered baking-sheet, dust over with caster sugar, and bake in a brisk oven. Cut a few thin strips of red- Fig. 171. Paste Croustade. currant jelly, and twist them round. When cooked, lay the twists of jelly between the plaits of Paste, and serve. Puff-Paste Cakes.—(1) Prepare lib. of Puff Paste of six turns, put it in a cold place for a few minutes, then roll it out to Jin. in thickness. Cut it with a sharp knife into