130 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. for details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. Peaches with it. Crack the stones, blanch, and split the kernels, put half a one on the top of each Peach, and serve. Peach Trifle.—Put the Peaches into a saucepan with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water, and stew them over a gentle fire until quite tender. When ready, drain the fruit and mb them through a fine hair sieve, then beat the pulp up with the syrup. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with slices of sponge cake, and moisten them with a little sherry. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream to taste with caster sugar, flavour it with ratafia, and whip it to a stiff froth, which skim off as it rises to the top, and place on a fine sieve to drain. Spread the Peach pulp over the cake, pile the cream on the top, and serve. Peach Water Ice.—(1) Slice ten ripe Peaches, but do not peel them, boil till soft in J pint of water, then rub them through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the pulp 1 pint of syrup, the strained juice of one lemon, three or four drops of oil of almonds, and colour it with a little carmine or cochineal. Put the preparation in the freezer (see ICES), turn it till frozen, then fill a plain mould with it, put the lid on, and pack it in ice. When ready to serve, turn the contents of the mould on to a fancy dish. (2) Procure eight medium-sized ripe Peaches, wipe them, cut them into halves, remove the stones, mash them in a vessel with Mb. of powdered sugar, and squeeze in the juice of three lemons; mix well with the spatula for two minutes, and pour in lqt. of cold water, mixing for two minutes longer. Strain through a fine sieve into the freezer, cover, and freeze. Serve on a cold dish with a folded napkin. Pickled Peaches.—(1) Allow to 141b. of Peaches, weighed after peeling, 2qts. of vinegar and 61b. of brown sugar. Mix together in a plate or saucer 1 table-spoonful of blades of mace, 2oz. of stick cinnamon broken up into small pieces, and 1 teaspoonful of cloves. Lay at the bottom of a 2gall. jar about lqt. of the Peaches, cover with sugar, and sprinkle over them a portion of the mixed spices. Then lay in more Peaches, covering them as before with sugar, and sprinkling in some of the mixed spice. Proceed in this manner till the jar is full, or till all the Peaches, sugar, and spice are in. Then pour in the vinegar, put a plate or saucer over the fruit to keep it well under the vinegar, tie a cloth tight over the top of the jar, and set it over the fire in a saucepan half full of cold water. Let the water boil till the Peaches are soft enough to pierce with a straw. (2) Take 1 peck of common Peaches, and, without peel- ing them, put them into a jar with a wide mouth or into a bowl. Place over the fire lqt. of red or white vinegar, 41b. of sugar, either loaf or moist will do, loz. of cloves, and loz. of stick cinnamon. Let these simmer gently for half-an-hour, and then pour this syrup over the Peaches. Lay something over them sufficiently heavy to keep them down in the syrup, and let them stand for three days. Put fruit and syrup together into a preserving-pan, and let it boil till the Peaches are soft, then lift them out of the syrup carefully and put them into jars. Let the syrup boil fast until it thickens, and when sufficiently thick pour it over the Peaches in the jars, putting some of the spice into each jar. Tie the jars down airtight, and the pickle will keep for twelve months. It is very nice with cold meat. (3) Choose perfectly sound Peaches of medium-size and brush them all over with a soft brush. Boil together 6qts. of water and 1 pint of coarse salt, and skim it until clear; then cool it. The quantity may be increased or diminished to suit the quantity of Peaches, enough being used to cover them; but this proportion of salt and water must be observed. When the brine is cold, put the Peaches into it and let them stand for forty-eight hours; then rinse them in cold water, dry them on a soft towel, and stick half-a-dozen cloves in each one. Boil and skim till clear as much vinegar as will well cover the Peaches (the quantity may be gauged by measuring the brine), allowing for each quart of vinegar four blades of mace and Joz. of stick cinnamon. When Peaches—continued. the vinegar has boiled for about fifteen minutes, put in the Peaches and remove the preserving-pan containing them to the back of the fire, where its contents will not boil. Let the Peaches stand in the hot vinegar for five minutes, and then put both Peaches and vinegar at once into glass jars and seal them airtight. (4) Get the Peaches when they are fully grown and just before they begin to turn ripe; they must not be in the least bit bruised. Put the Peaches in a brine strong enough to bear an egg, place a thin board over them to keep them under water, and let them stand for three days. Take the Peaches out, wipe them with a soft cloth, and lay them in a glass jar. Fill the jar with vinegar, and for every gallon put in three heads of garlic, plenty of ginger, cut fine, and Joz. of mace, cloves, and nutmeg; put a bladder over the jar, and then a leather, and tie it closely round. At the end of three months the Peaches will be fit for use. (5) Peaches for yellow pickle must lie for three days in salt and water; they will then be soft enough for the down to be nibbed off and for the stones to be taken out, which should be done very carefully. Keep the slice cut from the bottom in removing the stone. Stuff the cavity made by the removal of the stone with a paste composed of Jib. of white ginger, soaked in salt water till soft, Jib. of horseradish, scraped and soaked for twelve hours, J pint of garlic, soaked and dried, J pint of onions, chopped small, loz. of long pepper, dried and salted, Joz. of common black pepper, 1 table-spoonful of mace, 1 table-spoonful of cloves, loz. of celery-seed, 2oz. of black mustard-seed, 2oz. of white mustard-seed, and a little turmeric pounded to powder and mixed with perfectly fresh butter or olive-oil. Sew the piece cut from the bottom of the Peach on again. Put the Peach mangoes into a jar and cover them with vinegar, then tie them down. (6) Canadian.—Put 11 pecks of Peaches that have not been peeled into a large stone or earthenware jar. Put 3 pints of white vinegar into a lined pan with 61b. of coarsely- crushed loaf sugar and ljoz. each of stick cinnamon and whole cloves; boil the mixture for about forty minutes, then pour it, while boiling, over the Peaches. Press the Peaches well under the syrup and let them steep in it for three or four days. Next put them with their syrup into a pre- serving-pan and boil them gently until soft. Lay the Peaches carefully into jars, and continue to boil the syrup until thickly reduced, then pour it over the Peaches and leave them until cold. Cover the jars with parchment and tie them down securely. This is a very good relish for cold meats and will keep good for a year or more. (7) American.—These are styled pickled Peach mangoes. Take large-sized black Georgia Peaches, full grown, but not at all soft. Cover them with brine salt enough for a fresh egg to float in, and let them remain in it for a week. Take them out, then wipe them dry, and very carefully take the stones out. Have a paste ready, made of 5 table- spoonfuls of ground mustard, Jib. of chopped onion, Jib. of white mustard-seed, Jib. of black mustard-seed, Jib. of long pepper, 4 table-spoonfuls of black pepper, loz. of mace, Joz. of cloves, and Jib. of horseradish, all pounded together and mixed with olive-oil. First rub the inside of each Peach with 1 teaspoonful of celery-seed, then stuff into each as much of the paste as it will hold, and sew it up with strong linen thread or fine twine. Put over the fire lgall. of vinegar with lib. of brown sugar and a pod of red pepper cut in slices, or 1 teaspoonful of cayenne in it, let it come to a boil, then take it off. Put the Peaches into jars and pour this vinegar over them. When perfectly cold tie the jars down closely. Pickled Stuffed Peaches.—Choose fresh sound Peaches, brush them with a soft brush, and lay them in a cold brine for three days. Then remove them from the brine, cut a piece out of the top of each one, and take out the stone without enlarging the hole. For two dozen large Peaches, mix together 21b. of brown sugar, one onion, and a clove of garlic, chopped fine, 4oz. each of grated horse- radish and white mustard-seed, loz. of powdered cinnamon, and Joz. each of ground cloves, mace, and turmeric. Use sufficient salad-oil to moisten these ingredients. Fill the