TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 16 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Oatmeal—continued. serve with sugar, cream, and baked apples in separate dishes. Oatmeal Pie.—(1) Put 1 gill of cold milk into a basin and sprinkle in 2oz. of fine Oatmeal. When thoroughly mixed, pour in 1 pint of boiling milk, turn it into a saucepan, add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and boil slowly for ten minutes. Stir in 2oz. of finely-grated breadcrumb, and when the mixture is still' add two well-whisked eggs, a little Jemon- or orange-peel for flavouring or a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and loz. of finely-shred suet. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered dish, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. When it is done, take it out and serve hot. A linely- Fig. 13. Oatmeal Pie. chopped onion and 1 teaspoonful each of minced sage and marjoram may be added instead of the other flavourings, and it may be turned out and served on another dish (see Fig. 18) with some gravy in a sauceboat. (2) Put | teacupful of Scotch Oatmeal into a saucepan with I f jiints of water, and boil it until reduced to a jelly, then move it from the fire and let it get cold. Cut about lib. of Australian mutton into slices; spread some of the Oatmeal over the bottom of a small pie-dish, lay in the slices of mutton, strew over them chopped onion, parsley, .and a small quantity of sage, dust them over with salt and pepper, and cover with a layer of the Oatmeal. Fill the dish with alternate layers of Oatmeal and meat, season- ing as before, and making the last layer of Oatmeal. Dredge the pie lightly over with flour, and bake it for an-hour-and-a-half in a moderate oven. Serve while hot. Oatmeal Porridge.—(1) Stir 2oz. of Oilmeal gradually into a saucepan containing lqt. of boiling water, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt. When all is added, boil gently for thirty minutes, stirring constantly to prevent the mixture sticking to the pan. When it is done it should be like a light jelly but not stiff, although it will set. Turn it out into a bowl or basin, and serve hot with cream or milk. It is also eaten with sugar or treacle (golden syrup), and if it is boiled for an hour it will become lighter, adding a little more boiling water if it should thicken. (2) Let the water boil before the meal is put in ; then, without removing the pan from the fire, the meal should be poured regularly in from the band in a continuous stream, stirring all the time. Upon this depends the art of making porridge, and the success of the cook is shown in the smoothness of the porridge and entire absence of lumps. Allow the porridge to boil for ten minutes, and then add salt, but not before the ten minutes of boiling have fully expired, because salt has a tendency to harden the meal and prevent its swelling. After putting in the salt to taste, boil for ten minutes, and serve with new milk. The consistency of the porridge can be regulated by the amount of Oatmeal used. (3) A rather more fanciful dish claiming the same title is prepared by putting lqt. of water in a stewpan and letting it boil. Mix 1 table-spoonful of meal with h pint of cream; this is poured into the stewpan or saucepan of boiling water, and simmered for fifty or sixty minutes. Serve with golden syrup, thin slices of cheese, or crusts of bread. Oatmeal Pudding.—(1) Put 1 teacupful of Oatmeal and 1 breakfast-cupful of brown breadcrumbs in a basin and pour over them 1 pint of boiling milk. Cover the basin and leave the contents until cold, then stir in two well-beaten eggs, sweeten to taste, and add a smal 1 quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter a pudding-basin, pour the mixture into it, and tie a iloured pudding-cloth over the top. Put the pudding into Oatmeal—continued. a saucepan of boiling water and boil it for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) The night before the pudding is wanted put £ pint of fine Oatmeal into a basin of cold water ami let it soak until the following morning. Pour 1 pint of boiling milk over the Oatmeal, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt; butter thickly the interior of a pudding-basin (one that will just hold the Oatmeal should lie used), pour the Oatmeal into it, tie a well-lioured cloth tightly over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil the pudding for an-hour- and-a-half. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish, pour some cream round if, or some hot milk thickened with fl >ur, and serve. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water into a basin, mix in gradually 4oz. of coarse Oatmeal, and then pour in double the quantity of boiling milk or water. Stir in two eggs, a little spice, loz. of finely-slued suet or fat, 2oz. of sultana raisins, and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Have ready a well-buttered basin, pour in the mixture, cover it with a cloth, and boil in a saucepan of water for about an-hour-and-a-half. In the meantime, put loz. of ripe currants into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil for five minutes. Mash the currants with a spoon against the side of the pan, and mix in 1 table- spoonful of Hour made into a smooth paste with water and spice and sugar to taste. When the pudding is done, turn it out on to a dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Treacle may be served with this instead of currant sauce. (4) Put 1 heaped teacupful of Oatmeal into a basin, pour 1 pint of boiling milk over it, and let it stand for several hours, keeping the basin covered with a plate. Put the Oatmeal into a stewpan, and cook it gently at the side of the fire for an hour, giving it an occasional stir. Break four eggs in a basin, and beat them well with h table- spoonful of flour and h teacupful of treacle. Work the mixture into the Oatmeal, place it over the fire, and stir it quickly until on the point of boiling. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. (5) Press a sufficient quantity of raspberries or red currants to make 1 pint of juice, strain it into a saucepan through a fine hair sieve, pour in 1 pint of red wine, sweeten with loaf sugar, and [dace over the fire until boil- ing. Sprinkle 4oz. of Oatmeal into the boiling wine, and • stir until thick. Rinse a mould with cold water, fill it with the mixture, and pack it in ice or set it in a cold place until firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the pudding on to a dish, together with stewed fruit, or fruit sauce. Oatmeal Sandwich (Irish).—Work 2oz. of dripping or butter into 8oz. of fine Oatmeal, add a little less than 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, and stir in quickly 1 tea- cupful of warmed milk. Have ready a well-buttered York- shire-pudding baking-tin, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for about forty-five minutes, when it should be quite done. Turn it out on to a dish, mask with jam or marmalade, fold over, and serve hot. The marmalade or jam may be omitted. Oatmeal Scup.—(1) Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of water over loz. of Oatmeal in a basin, mix well, and let it remain for a minute or two ; then stir in an equal quantity of broth, strain it into a saucepan, and boil for ten minutes. Add any seasoning that may be preferred, and serve hot. (2) Put some groats into a saucepan of boiling water and add a small lump of butter. Let them remain for an hour or so, then strain into a basin and add lemon-peel and cinnamon to flavour, a little white wine, and sufficient moist sugar to sweeten. Put the saucepan containing the soup on the fire, boil up, strain into a soup-tureen, anil add some cream and yolks of eggs well beaten together. Put a few pieces of toasted bread on the top to float, and serve. Oatmeal Wafers.—Mix a small quantity of salt into 8oz. of Oatmeal flour, and make it into a dough by adding 1 tea- cupful of boiling water. Turn it out on to a board well sprinkled with meal, knead it slightly with the knuckles, roll it out as thin as possible, cut it with a biscuit- cutter into shapes, brown first one side and then the other