83 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. butter, and brown them before the fire or with a sala- mander. (2) Put the liquor of three dozen Oysters in a saucepan with 1 teacupful of cream, 1 wineglassful of wine, and the juice of half-a-lemon; season the sauce with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and mix in 1 table-spoonful of flour that has been worked with loz. of butter. Place the sauce over the fire, and stir until it boils and is very thick. Scald the Oysters in boiling water, then drain them, remove their beards, and put them in the sauce; move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Fill scallop shells with the Oysters, strew them with finely- grated breadcrumb and Parmesan cheese, and baste them Fig. 99. Scalloped Oysters. with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Put the shells in a brisk oven, or brown them under a salamander. When ready, arrange them on a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper on a dish (see Fig. 99), and serve. (3) Take as many scallop shells as there are people to be served, wash them well, and wipe dry. In the bottom of these shells put a layer of Oysters, cover them with sifted breadcrumbs, sprinkle the breadcrumbs with pepper and celery salt, and stick over them little pieces of butter; over this put another layer of Oysters, covering them as before with sifted breadcrumbs, sprinkling them with pepper and celery salt, and sticking butter over them. Put the shells into a well-heated oven, and bake the Oysters till the tops are nicely browned. Serve hot. (4) Loosen the Oysters from the shells, sprinkle the deep half-shell with breadcrumbs, replace the Oyster, cover it with breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate oven. When nearly done pour 1 teaspoonful of warmed butter over each, take them out when cooked, put them on a dish, and serve. (5) Put eight dozen Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor and toss the pan over the fire for a few minutes to shrink them. Have ready sixteen well-buttered scallop shells or silver ones in imitation if preferred, sprinkle them with bread and cracker-crumbs mixed in equal proportions, place half-a-dozen Oysters in each, and cover them with more crumbs, spreading them evenly. Strain the Oyster liquor into a basin, add fib. of butter, 1 pint of milk, and salt and pepper to taste; pour it over the crumbs, and bake the scallops in a cool oven until done and of a light brown colour. Place them on a dish, and serve. (6) Chop a little parsley very fine, and, together with a small quantity of pepper, mash or rub it into about Hoz. of butter, then warm it sufficiently to melt it. Open some Oysters, roll each one in this melted butter, lay it in the deepest of its shells, stand the shells in a baking-pan, add a few drops of lemon-juice to the Oyster in each shell, and cover until sifted breadcrumbs. Bake them in a quick oven, and serve in the shells. _ (7) Open about two dozen Oysters, put them with their liquor into a stewpan and partially boil them, then drain, beard, and cut them in halves. Finely chop half-a-dozen button-mushrooms and two shallots, put them into a stew- pan with a good-sized lump of butter, dredge lightly with flour, salt, and pepper, and stir them over the fire for a few minutes without browning. Pour in sufficient white wine and clear stock in equal portions to make the sauce, and boil for fifteen minutes. Next put the Oysters in the sauce and toss them over the fire for two minutes or so. Turn the mixture into scallop shells, cover it with finely Oysters—continued. grated breadcrumb, and put a small lump of butter on the top of each. Place the shells in the oven until the Oysters are nicely browned on the top, then put them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (8) Put 4oz. of sardine butter in a saucepan, melt it, then put in 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions and any kind of herbs; stir these ingredients over the fire until cooked, then put in two dozen freshly- opened Oysters with their liquor, and 1 breakfast-cup- ful of cream, season with salt and pepper, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutes. Turn the mixture into a dish that will bear the heat of the oven, strew over plenty of breadcrumbs, and put the dish in a quick oven until the Oysters are lightly browned. When cooked, serve the Oysters while very hot in the dish in which they were cooked. Spiced Oysters.—Take a hundred fresh Oysters, put them into a large earthenware pipkin together with their own liquor strained, half a nutmeg grated, eighteen cloves, four blades of mace, 1 teaspoonful of allspice, a very little cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and 2 table-spoonfuls of strong vinegar, and stir all these well together with a wooden spoon. Put them in a moderately-heated stove or over a slow fire ; take them from the fire several times, and stir them thoroughly; as soon as they come to the boil pour them into a pan and let them stand all night in a cool place. They will be ready for eating next day. Steamed Oysters.—Open and drain the required quantity of Oysters, lay them in a steamer, which place over a sauce- pan of boiling water, cover them with a pjlate, and cook for ten minutes. When ready, place the Oysters on a very hot dish, garnish with some small croutons of brown bread fried in butter and drained, and a few drops of lemon or vinegar poured over them. Dust lightly with salt and pepper, and serve. Stewed Oysters.—(1) Open the shells of one dozen or so Oysters, take them out carefully, and wash them in their own liquor until perfectly free from grit and pieces of shell; put them into a saucepan, strain the liquor twice, pour it over them, place the pan at the side of the fire, and let them simmer gently for a few minutes until done. Take them out with a slice or skimmer, and put them on a dish in a slow oven to keep warm ; add to the liquor 1 teacupful of cream, and salt and cayenne to taste. Place the pan on the fire, and when the liquor boils add 2oz. of butter worked up with 1 teaspoonful of flour and continue to stir until they are all thoroughly mixed. Put in the Oysters, warm them up without boiling, remove the pan from the fire, and stir in a little lemon-juice. Have ready some pieces of bread fried in butter, arrange them on a dish, put the Oysters on them, pour over the liquor, and serve very hot. (2) Put a small quantity of butter into a saucepan with a little flour, and when melted add the required number of Oysters; warm them at the side of the fire, and when firm and set pour in a little of their liquor well strained and slightly warmed. Then add a seasoning of chopped mushrooms, carrots, and onions, a few green peas and laurel-leaves, a little thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. When the Oysters are done they should be taken out and kept hot while the remainder of the ingredients are being cooked. When all are done, put the Oysters on a dish, pour over the mushroom mixture, and serve very hot. (3) Put l pint of milk into a saucepan and thicken it with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and loz. of butter. When the butter has dissolved, put in a dozen or so bearded and well-washed Oysters, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and stew gently at the side of the fire for thirty minutes. Turn the stew out on to a dish when done, and serve very hot with a garnish of small pieces of the crumb of bread dipped in lemon-juice and fried in butter to a light brown. (4) Strain the liquor of some Oysters, put it in a stew- pan over the fire with some sifted breadcrumbs, a glass of white wine, and a seasoning of pepper and nutmeg, let it boil up, and pour it boiling over the Oysters; cover