148 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Peppermint—con tinued. degree (see Sugar boiling) ; add sufficient essence of Peppermint to flavour, and with a spatula rub some of the sugar against the sides of the pan until the sugar has a white appearance. Have ready some well-oiled tins, pour the candy into them, let it cool, and mark it with a knife into squares; when cold, break them where marked, and put them away in boxes or tins. Peppermint Candy Drops.—Boil 1 lb. of crushed loaf sugar to the ball degree in just enough water to dissolve it; then put in a few drops of essence of Peppermint and a few drops of acetic acid. Work the sugar with the back of a spoon (a silver one is best) against the sides of the boiler, to give it a granular appearance. Pour the sugar at once into a shallow tin dish. When half-set, mark it with the back of a knife into small tablets, so that when quite set they can be easily snapped asunder. Previous to pouring in tbe candy rub the tin over with oil of almonds. Peppermint Cordial.—(1) Put 1 gall, of plain syrup at 45deg. containing 61b. of sugar per gall, into a vessel that has a tightly fitting lid, and add 1 drachm of Peppermint oil and 10 minims of best crystallised carbolic acid. Set the vessel with the lid on in such a position that it can be shaken continually for an hour or so. Bottle the liquor if bright; if it is not, filter it through a jelly-bag lined with paper-pulp before bottling. If possible, the cordial should go through the process of churning to mix thoroughly. (‘2) Put Joz. of oil of Peppermint with 3 fluid ounces of rectified spirits of wine into a bottle, cork it securely, and shake it for some time. Have ready a cask that will just contain 5 galls., pour in 14J pints of white and flavourless proof spirit, add the oil of Peppermint, and shake well for ten minutes or so; add lOJlb. of best double refined lump sugar dissolved in 7qts. of water (filtered rain), and shake up for fifteen minutes longer; add sullicient clear rain water with joz. of alum dissolved in it to fill up the cask, and shake well for fifteen minutes longer. Let it stand for fourteen days with the cask bunged-up, and it will be ready for use. Should it be too thick, add a little salt of tartar dissolved in hot water, and leave it for a few days before using. Peppermint Drops.—(1) Pour over 21b. of the best sugar J pint of cold water, and let it stand for half-an-hour; put it then over a moderate fire, and stir it till it nearly boils. Remove it from the fire as it just comes to the boil, add oil of Peppermint, and stir till the mixture is quite smooth. Drop it in small drops on a smoothly-oiled marble slab, or on oiled paper, and keep them in a warm place till they are quite dry. (2) Beat 6oz. of finely-powdered white sugar with the whites of three eggs till quite smooth, add then 90 drops of oil of Peppermint, and beat all well together. Drop it in small drops on white paper, and dry them at a little distance from the fire. Peppermint Liqueur.—This is prepared in the same way as Liqueur des Eveques (see Cordials and Liqueurs), using 1 Jib. of bruised Peppermint leaves, 1 Joz. of ground or crushed aniseed, 9Jqts. of spirits of wine, 3Jqts. of capillaire, 3qts. of Peppermint water, and 4qts. of pure water. Peppermint Lozenges.—Put loz. of picked gum-dragon into a jar with about J teacupful of tepid water, and leave it to soak for six hours. When ready, work the gum on a marble slab with the doubled fist until it becomes white and elastic; then work in with it ljlb. of fine icing sugar, and when quite smooth add 1 teaspoonful of essence of Peppermint, and a few drops of thick wet cohalt blue ; continue working the paste till it assumes a brilliant whiteness. Sift some caster sugar over the slab, and roll the paste out on it to nearly Jin. in thickness, using if possible a ribbed rolling-pin; then roll it again in cross directions, so as to imprint on the surface a diamond pattern. With a tin-cutter about Jin. in diameter stamp out the lozenges; sprinkle caster sugar over some baking- sheets, and put on the lozenges as they are cut. Put the sheets in the screen and leave them till the lozenges are dry. Keep in well-stoppered glass bottles. Peppermint—continued. Peppermint Pastille Drops.—Put 3J table-spoonfuls of coarsely-sifted sugar into a sugar-boiler with 4 drops of essence of Peppermint and 1 table-spoonful of water; place the pan on the fire, and as soon as the contents begin to dissolve, stir with a wooden spoon for a minute or two; then take the pan off the fire. Drop the mixture in small drops from the lip of the pan, using a curved piece of wire to cut them off, and let them fall in rows on a sheet of stiff paper; leave them until firm, then turn the paper of drops over, and brush the back of it with a brush that has been dipped in water. When sufficiently moistened, pass the blade of a knife between it and the drops, and let them fall on to a sieve. Move the sieve backwards and forwards over a very slow fire until they are thoroughly dry. Pack the sweets in glass bottles, cork them tightly, and keep them in a dry place. Peppermint Stick Candy.—Mix together J pint of water, 21b. of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, and cook over a moderate fire till brittle. This may be ascer- tained by putting a little into cold water. Wlien the candy is brittle, stir into it twelve drops of oil of Pepper- mint. Pour about 1 pint of the syrup, or rather less, into a separate vessel, and mix with it about six drops of cochineal. Pull the rest till it is white, and before cutting it into sticks twist round it a small quantity of the red candy. Peppermint Syrup.—Put 3Mb. of crushed loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler with lqt. of water and 1 loz. of" soluble essence of Peppermint, and boil it for one minute. PEPPER-POT.—The name given to a soup or stew which is very highly esteemed in the West Indies. The following receipts will be found to give an excellent variety for its preparation: (1) Partially boil 31b. or 4lb. of lean pork and cut it into small slices; put the pork into a saucepan with a sufficient quantity of the water in which it was boiled to cover it, and J pint of cassareep; season to taste with salt and peppercorns, and boil the whole gently for several hours, taking care it does not burn. The meat should be always well covered with the gravy. (2) Put into a saucepan 31b. of beef, Jib. of lean ham, two large potatoes peeled and sliced, a couple of onions and a bunch of dried thyme, pour over them 4qts. of water, and let all simmer gently till the liquor is reduced to 3qts. Then strain through a colander, return the liquor to the saucepan, and add to it a fowl, skinned and cut into joints, 41b. of slices of pickled pork, some suet dumplings about the size of walnuts, and the meat of a lobster chopped small. When the fowl is cooked, add J peck of boiled spinach that has been rubbed through a sieve. Season the Pepper-Pot with cayenne pepper and salt. Serve hot. (3) Wash as much spinach as will fill a good-sized dish, put it into a saucepan without any water, and let it boil; then drain off the liquor and chop the spinach fine. Return the spinach with its liquor to the saucepan, add a little water to it, one or two onions, a lettuce or a head of endive, cut small, about lib. of potatoes, Jib. of bacon, and any bones of roasted meat that may be at hand. Put the saucepan over the fire. When it has boiled for an hour, add a few cold boiled suet dumplings, and boil for twenty minutes longer. Season with cayenne pepper, pick out the bones, and serve. (4) Put a shin of beef and a knuckle of veal into a stock-pot, with a large slice of ham, cover over with cold water, and bring it slowly to the boil. Skim well, and simmer on the side of the fire for three hours, or until the meat is tender. Strain off the liquor, return it to the pot, and add six potatoes peeled and cut into small pieces, two onions cut into slices, half a red pepper cut up, six cloves, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, summer savoury and sweet basil mixed, a pinch of sweet marjoram, and a bay-leaf. Cut the beef and veal into small pieces and the ham into dice, put them into the pot, together with Jib. of tender well-boiled tripe cut up into small pieces, and boil up once more; add two dozen small dumplings