TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 114 Paste and Pastry— continued. then roll it out again, sprinkling a little Hour over to prevent it sticking. Sprinkle a baking sheet with flour, double the Paste in three folds, put it on the baking-sheet, and leave for a short time in a cool temperature. Roll the Paste out again twice, proceeding as before; then let it rest again, and give it another two turns, which will make six in all; then roll it out to a long shape, and fold it in two. It is then ready for use. (2) Put lib. of butter in a basin of cold water, and work it with the hands till light and waxy; this frees it of the salt and butter-milk and lightens it, so that the Paste will be more delicate. Divide the butter, flatten it, and if soft put it into a basin of ice-water to harden. Turn lqt. of pastry-flour on to a table, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful each of sugar and salt. Rub with the hands one-third of the butter into the flour, pour in sufficient iced water to make a stiff Paste, and stir vigorously and quickly with a knife. Sprinkle a little flour on the table, roll the Paste on it with a floured rolling-pin, taking care not to break it. Roll from you, and to one side. When the paste is about Jin. thick, drain the water off the rest of the butter, break it into little pieces, and spread them on the Paste. Sift a little flour lightly over, fold the Paste one-fourth from each side, so that the edges meet, then fold it from the ends, but do not let these meet. Double the Paste, beat it lightly, then roll down to about Jin. in thickness. Fold as before, and roll down again. Repeat this operation three times if for pies, and six times if for vol-au-vents, patties, tarts, &c. Place it on ice to harden, where it should be kept for at least an hour before using. In the summer, if the Paste sticks when being rolled down, put it on a tin sheet, and place it on ice. The less flour used in rolling out the Paste, the lighter it will be. (3) Have ready lib. each of flour and fresh butter, 1 pint of ice-water, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. If the butter be salt instead of fresh no salt is necessary, but wash the j butter well before using it. Pour the flour on the table, i make a hollow space in the centre, put in it loz. of the butter, adding the pint of ice-water and the salt, and gradually mix the whole well together. Put it aside in a cool place for five minutes. Sprinkle the space of a square foot of the table with a very little flour, place the dough on it, lengthen and widen it with a roller to the thickness of Jin. and lay the 15oz. of butter (which must be very firm) in one lump in the centre. Fold over the four edges so as to enclose it, flatten again lightly with the roller until it forms a piece 2in. thick, and put it away to cool for ten minutes. Roll it again lengthwise, fold it into four, and let it rest for another five minutes. Then repeat the same twice more, rolling it each time in a different direction. After five minutes it will be ready for use. (4) Sift lib. of flour upon a board or table, and work in Jib. of butter; then add sufficient water to make it the stiffness or softness of butter, work it up smooth, then roll it out lengthwise, Jin. thick; place fib. more butter cut into slices half way over the Paste, dust lightly with flour, and double it up. Press down with a rolling-pin, and let it lie for a few minutes; roll it three times, thinner each tune, letting it lie a few minutes between each roll, and prevent it from sticking to the board or rolling- pin. (5) Sift lib. of flour on a paste-board, and rub in 4oz. of butter until quite smooth. Beat an egg in 1 table-spoon- ful of brandy and J teacupful of milk, mix it gradually into the flour, and work it to a smooth Paste with a knife, moistening occasionally, if necessary, with a small quantity of milk. Knead the dough with the hands on a floured board, roll it out, p>ut Jib. of butter on it, and fold the dough over it. Roll and fold the Paste four times, touching it as little as possible with the hands. It is then ready for use. (6) Make a cavity in about Jib. of sifted flour on a board and work in the white of one egg and yolks of two; also J wineglassful of warm water and 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter. Work well until thoroughly kneaded, roll it out several times, and cut it into two or three pieces. Roll them out quite thin, put them in layers into a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Paste and Pastry—continued. buttered mould, cutting the Paste to fit them, with a small quantity of butter between the layers, and with a sharp knife mark a cover on the Paste, cutting it to the required depth, but taking care not to injure the bottom. Put the Paste to bake in a moderate oven, remove the cover, fill up the cavity with any desired preserve, remove a portion of the Paste from the cover, replace it, and serve hot or cold, as may be desired. (7) Put flour and butter on a paste-board, allowing fib. of butter for every pound of flour ; add a small quantity of salt, and chop the butter until well mixed in with the flour; then squeeze in a small quantity of lemon-juice and sufficient cold water to mix it into a firm Paste. Roll the Paste out to about Jin. in thickness, then fold it over in three, and roll it out again. After this has been twice repeated the Paste will be ready for use. (8) Prepare lib. of Puff Paste, give it twelve turns, then let it rest for half-an-hour. Butter the interior of a plain round or oval-shaped mould, line it with the Puff Paste, line the Paste with paper, fill it with breadcrumbs to keep it in shape, and bake till rather crisp. When the Sawn is cooked, empty out the breadcrumbs and remove the paper. Turn the flawn out of the mould, dust caster sugar over it, and glaze under a salamander; leave the flawn till cold, then fill it with any kind of fruit that has been cooked and left till cold, and serve. Half Puff Paste.—This is made as for Puff Paste, using 12oz. of flour, Joz. of salt, two eggs, lOoz. of butter, and 1 teacupful of water, keeping the Paste very firm. Puff Paste made with Beef-suet.—To prepare Puff Paste with beef-suet, chop the suet very fine, put it in a mortar, and pound to a pulp, adding gradually sufficient olive oil to give it a body, and to make it as easy to work as butter. When thoroughly worked up, mix in the flour as for ordinary Puff Paste. Lard may be substituted for oil, using half lard and half beef-suet. Puff Paste made with Lard.—To prepare Puff Paste with lard, use 12oz. of flour, 2oz. of lard, the yolks of two eggs, and about 2 drachms of salt. Work these into a Paste, let it stand for a few minutes, then roll it out, brush over with warm lard, fold the Paste in three, roll it out gently again, let it stand for a few minutes, and continue in this way, brushing the Paste with lard until 12oz. have been worked into the flour. It is then ready for use in the ordinary way. Puff Paste made with Oil.—Puff Paste prepared with sweet-oil is made in the same way as for Puff Paste made with Lard, using the same quantity of oil as lard, and working it in in the same manner. Puff Paste made with Veal-suet.—Put three veal udders into a stockpot and boil ; let them get cold, trim off any uneatable parts, put them into a mortar and pound, adding sufficient oil or lard to make it of the consistence of butter. Short-Paste.—This, as lias already been explained, differs from Puff Paste in that the butter or other fat is rubbed into the flour before wetting. In other particulars one Short-Paste may differ from another according to the fancy of the cook as shown in the following receipts : Short-Paste for Savoury Pies.—(1) Sift lib. of dried flour on to the slab or table, collect it altogether in a heap, and make a hollow in the centre. In this hollow put 1 teaspoonful of salt and the yolks of two or three eggs. Put into a small stewpan 1 teacupful of water and Jib. of fresh butter ; set this over the fire till the butter is melted, then pour it, little by little, into the hollow in the flour, and work the flour in with two fingers until it is all taken up and worked into a stiff Paste ; work this on the slab with both hands till it is well kneaded, then gather it together, roll it into a ball, wrap it up in a floured cloth, and let it stand for two or three hours in a cool place ; by this time the dough will have set, and be ready for use. The rolling-out should be done lightly; any heavy handling spoils this crust. (2) Sift lib. of flour on a table, make a hollow in the centre, and pour into it Jib. of well-washed butter, 1 salt- Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.