182 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. saucepan, and boil the contents for fifteen minutes. Then add a few raw mushrooms and some chopped cooked salsify. When about half cooked, remove the Pigeons from the fire. Butter a pie-disli, line it with puff paste, put in the birds, and pour over them the cooking liquor, &c. Cover the pie with a Hat of puff paste, trim round the edges, moisten with water, press them to- gether, and channel them all round. Roll out the trim- mings of the paste and cut a few imitation leaves out of it. Arrange the leaves on the top of the pie, damping them first with a little water to make them adhere. Make a hole in the centre, brash the pie over with a paste-brash dipped in beaten egg, and bake it for three- quarters-of-an-hour in a moderate oven. After the pie has been in the oven for ten minutes, it should be covered with a sheet of paper to prevent it taking too much colour. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, and stand the dish on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper on another dish, and serve it. (6) Clean and prepare three Pigeons, cut off the feet, pour boiling water on them, remove the skin from the legs and claws, as well as the nails, wipe them dry, and put them on one side. Prepare a forcemeat with the livers, parboiled mushrooms, cold cooked and chopped meat of any kind, sweet herbs, lemon-peel, spices, and a good supply of breadcrumbs, making the whole a solid mass by working in one or two eggs. Well beat |lb. of beef steak, dip it in flour, cut it into 2in. squares, place them at the bottom of a pie-dish, and put the forcemeat on top. Over this lay the Pigeons, intermixed with small pieces of hard-boiled eggs, add a bay-leaf (if not objected to), pom- over about 1 pint of gravy made from the trim- mings of meat, put on a cover, decorate according to fancy, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, glaze the surface, insert the claws in the crust, and serve either hot or cold. (7) Butter the edges of a pie-dish and line it with puff paste; put at the bottom a few thin slices of veal cutlet, and season them with salt, pepper, and small quantities of cayenne and grated nutmeg. Place in as many young Pigeons (that have been cleaned) as the dish will hold, season them as before, and fill up the gapsi with yolks of hard-boiled eggs; put a few pieces of butter on the top, and moisten with some rich gravy. Cover the whole with a flat of puff paste, and make a slight incision in the top. Brash the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake it in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (8) Prepare some highly-seasoned forcemeat, line a well- buttered dish with it, and put in a layer of thin slices of bacon. Draw some Pigeons and truss them, put them on the bacon, and lay on them a sweetbread cut into slices, five or six asparagus-tops, a few mushrooms, two cocks’ combs, an ox-palate that has been boiled tender and cut into small pieces, and the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs ; put a layer of forcemeat on the top, cover all with a flat of short crust, and bake it for an hour. When cooked, turn the pie out on a hot dish, pour a rich gravy round it, and serve. (9) Draw three Pigeons, divide each into four parts, and put them in a stewpan with |lb. of streaky bacon and 5oz. of bacon-fat, both chopped. Fry the Pigeons till half done, season, and pour in \ pint of white wine. When the moisture has evaporated somewhat, add the Pigeons’ livers and two or three table-spoonfuls of cooked fine herbs; stir all over the fire for three minutes, then take the pan off, and let the contents cool. Put a flat of puff paste on a buttered baking-sheet, mask it with veal quenelle forcemeat, leaving Din. of the edge clear all round. Place the Pigeons on it in a dome shape, filling in between them with the bacon and fine herbs, cover the birds with forcemeat, put some thin slices of fat bacon on the top, cover them with a flat of paste, damp the edges, and press them together, still leaving lin. of clear edge all round. Roll out a flat strip of the paste, and fix it up right round the pie, resting on the under flat of paste, and fasten it at the ends. Roll the trimmings of the paste out and carve some imitation leaves with it, moisten Pigeons—continued. them, and place them in scrolls on the top of the dome; make a small hole in the centre, and place over it a small round of paste. Brash the paste all over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, cover the tart over with paper, and bake it one-hour-and-a-quarter. When cooked, put the pie on a hot dish, make an incision round the dome so as to open it, remove the bacon, and put in its place some poached veal forcemeat quenelles, pour in a little rich thickened gravy in which a few fresh mushrooms have been stewed, put the top on again, and serve with a sauceboatful of the sauce, mixed up with mushrooms and quenelles. Pigeon Pudding (American).—Prepare three young Pigeons for cooking. Finely chop a shallot with 2 table-spoonfuls of parsley and 1 table-spoonful of thyme; then add the pounded yolk of a hard-boiled egg, a finely minced mushroom, and two or three slices of bacon, seasoning with pepper, salt, and a very little grated nutmeg. Cut the Pigeons lengthwise into halves, put an equal quantity of the stuffing in each, roll them up in vine-leaves, put them into a pudding basin lined with suet-paste, pour in suffi- cient water to half cover, put a top of paste over the basin, tie over with a cloth, and steam for fully two hours. Turn out, make a small hole in the top, pour in some richly flavoured stock, and serve. Pigeons with Rice and Parmesan Cheese.—Pluck and clean four or six nice-sized Pigeons, and divide each one into quarters; put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until mixed and browned ; then mix in slowly two breakfast- cupfuls of good stock. Put in the Pigeons with two or three finely-chopped onions, salt and pepper to taste, and keep them simmering at the side of the fire until tender. When cooked, take the Pigeons out, and squeeze the juice of one lemon in their cooking liquor. Wash and boil fib. of rice in stock with 6oz. of butter, and when tender mix with it j-lb. of grated Parmesan cheese, seasoning it with salt and grated nutmeg. Make a wall with some of the rice round a dish, put the Pigeons in the centre, strain their gravy over them, and cover with the remainder of the rice. Brash the top of the rice over with a paste- brusli dipped in beaten egg, and strew some grated Par- mesan cheese thickly over it. Stand the dish on a flat baking-tin that has been covered with salt, and put it into a slow oven. In about three-quarters-of-an-hour’s time, or when nicely browned over the top, take the dish out of the oven, and serve. Pigeon Salad.—Roast some Pigeons and leave them till cold. Take the fillets from the breasts of the birds, cut them into thin slices, put them in a deep dish, season with salt and pepper, and moisten them with salad oil and vinegar in equal quantities. In about an hour’s time, drain the pieces of meat, lay them hi a salad dish, put some small pieces of celery in with them, cover until a mayonnaise dressing, and serve them. Another way, is to put the chopped meat in a salad bowl in which have been arranged some lettuce-leaves. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs and slices of beetroot, and pour a rtmoulade sauce over them. Pigeons an Soleil.—To the inventive genius of Ude we owe this dish. Cut four cold cooked Pigeons in halves. Put three or four carrots and onions into a stewpan, add Fig. 236. Pigeons au Soleil. a parsley root, one clove, one shallot, half a bay-leaf, two or three sprigs of thyme, and a small lump of butter. Fry them, but do not brown them; moisten with vinegar and water mixed in equal quantities and dust in a little pepper and salt; let it simmer till the vegetables are quite done.