THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 32 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. and put in a small pinch of cayenne pepper. Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, when it will be ready for serving. (5) Cut an Orange into halves, remove the peel and pith from one half, and divide it into slices and each slice again into quarters, taking care to pick out all the pips. Put the pieces of Orange into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of water, boil for three minutes or so, take out, and drain. Put 1 gill of broth into a saucepan over the fire, and when it boils add the pieces of Orange and a little sugar, and stir in the juice from the remaining half. Simmer gently for ten minutes, skimming frequently, turn it into a sauceboat, and serve. A little mustard or cayenne may be added. (6) Mix 8 table-spoonfuls of red currant jelly with 1 table-spoonful of made mustard, put it into a basin, and add a little pepper and one finely-minced shallot. In the meantime rub the rinds of two sweet Oranges with pieces of sugar, mix them into the jelly preparation, and pour over sufficient port wine to make it of that consistence that it will stick to the spoon while being stirred. Cut off the rinds of two more Oranges, slicing them very fine, mix them into the sauce, and pour it into bottles until wanted. It will keep in this way for several months, and must lie warmed up, not boiled, before serving. (7) Cut off the peel from a large Orange, chop it into small pieces, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil until tender. When done, put it in a strainer to drain; when quite dry, put it into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of reduced brown sauce, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes. Just before serving, stir in (off the fire) the juices of an Orange and lemon. Buttered Orange-juice. -Squeeze the juice out of six or seven Seville Oranges into a basin, and mix with it the yolks of six eggs, the whites of three that have been beaten separately, and 1J wineglassfuls of rose-water. Beat the mixture well, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a small lined stewpan, mix with it Jib. of caster sugar, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until it begins to thicken, then put in a piece of butter about loz. in weight and continue stirring it for a few minutes longer. Pour Fig. 45. Buttered Orange-juice the mixture, when the butter has dissolved, into a pie- dish standing on a flat dish, garnish round with almond biscuits, and leave it until quite cold before serving. See Fig. 45. Candied Orange-peel.—Cut some Seville Oranges in halves lengthwise, and scoop out all the pulp as cleanly as possible. Put the rinds into a bowl with salted water to cover, and let them soak for a week. At the end of that time, drain the rinds; put 21b. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with 2qts. of water and boil it until reduced to a thin syrup, then add the rinds and boil them for lialf-an hour. Place in another saucepan 21b. or 31b. of loaf sugar with a very small quantity of cold water, and stir it over the fire until reduced to a thick syrup. Put the rinds into the second syrup, and boil them until the sugar candies. When ready, lay the rinds on a fine sieve, sift caster sugai over, and put them in a cooled oven. When the rinds are quite dry, pack them into wide-mouthecl bottles, and cork down. Candied Quarters of Oranges.—Peel the Oranges, divide them into quarters, remove the pips as carefully as possible, and boil the fruit gently in plenty of water. Drain the quarters of Oranges thoroughly on a sieve, then put them into a stewpan with syrup at 28deg. and let them simmer for ten minutes. Turn the Oranges into a Oranges—continued. basin with the syrup, and leave them till the following day ; then drain the syrup off the Oranges, boil it up again, and pour it back upon the Oranges. Proceed in the same way the three following days, giving the syrup in all what is called four fashions. Take the quarters of Oranges carefully out of the syrup, put them on wire sieves, and set them in the screen. When the quarters of Oranges are dry, dip them in semi-grained sugar and dry them again. When quite dry, (they should not stick to the fingers when touched), take the sieve of Oranges from the screen, and leave them till cold, then pack away in boxes between layers of white paper. Caramel Orange Quarters.—Peel the Oranges and carefully trim oft'all the white pith; pull them apart in quarters, taking care not to tear the skin, place them on wire trays, and dry in a moderate temperature. Boil lib. of sugar to the crack (see Sugar-boiling), insert a thin twig care- fully in the broad part of each Orange, dip them in the sugar, and place them out of hand on oiled wire trays. When finished, put the Oranges in a cool place till' the sugar has stiffened on them. When ready to serve the Oranges, push through from underneath the tray, taking care not to damage the sugar that covers them; put some green leaves in a compote-dish, and lay in the quarters. Chartreuse of Candied Oranges.—Peel and quarter Oranges enough to line the bottom and sides of a round tin jelly mould, lay the quarters upon a sieve, and place them on the shelf over the stove or just inside the oven, where the white membrane which encloses the pulp will become quite dry; this membrane must be entirely unbroken, so that no juice can escape. While the Oranges are drying, put over the fire in a sugar-boiler Jib. of loaf sugar, 1 gill of water, and I teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and boil the sugar until it cracks off sharp when cooled in ice water; after large bubbles begin to show on top of the boiling sugar, it must be tested frequently to see if it is boiled crisp enough. When the sugar is done, pour some sweet salad-oil into a round tin mould, run it all over the inside of the mould, and then pour it out. Dip the quarters of Oranges in the hot sugar, one by one, and then entirely line the bottom and sides 'of the oiled mould with them, overlapping a little; the sugar will hold them together, and the oil will prevent adhesion to the mould. When the Orange quarters have cooled in the mould, they will turn out and retain their shape. This forms a chartreuse, which may lie filled just before serving with whipped cream (see Fig. 46) or crystallised fruits. Chartreuse of Oranges.—Two plain moulds will be required one of which should be about ljin. more in diameter than the other. Make some Orange jelly and pour a layer of it into the larger mould, then put in a layer of Oranges divided into quarters and freed of all skin and pips; pour over these another layer of jelly, and stand the mould on ice. When the jelly is quite firm, put in the smaller mould, placing it exactly in the centre, so that the space all round will be the same. Next fill up the space between the moulds with quarters of Oranges, prepared as above, and liquid Orange jelly, and set the mould on ice. Dissolve Joz. of isinglass in a small quantity of milk, then mix it with 1J pints of cream, sweeten it with Orange syrup, adding this latter ingredient in very small quantities and whipping the cream well at the same time. When the