993 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Mutton—continued. This is a very novel manner of serving freshly-made sausages. (2) Finely chop lib. or so of uncooked or underdone Mutton and season with crushed mace, salt, and pepper. Chop also illi. of beef-suet, two anchovies, 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of bearded oysters, and a boiled onion; mix with these Jib. of grated bread and the minced Mutton, form it into a mass by adding the liquor from the oysters and two or three eggs, then shape it into balls or cakes, or put it into skins, plunge into boiling fat, and fry. When done, arrange them on a folded napkin spread over a dish, and serve. (3) Chop as finely as possible 61b. of Mutton and ljlb. of fresh pork, season with 2Joz. of salt, Joz. of freshly-ground black pepper, J table-spoonful of finely-minced or powdered sage or marjoram, and 1 heaped teaspoonful of grated ginger. Procure, if possible, about 1J pints of sheep’s blood, caught at the time of killing. Put the mince into a basin with the blood (which is used to give it a rich dark colour), and stir it until well mixed. Fill some well-cleaned sheep’s entrail skins with the mixture, and tie it into sausages about 4in. long. Put the sausages into a saucepan, cover with cold water, place them over a slow fire until the water is on the point of boiling, then remove the sauce- pan and leave the sausages in the water until half cold. Drain the sausages, dry them on a cloth, and hang them up in a cool dry place. Fry the sausages when ready to serve. (4) Chop finely lib. of underdone cold roasted leg of Mutton, season highly with mace, salt, and pepper, and mix with it 6oz. of finely-minced beef-suet, a little sweet mar- joram, thyme, and parsley, two anchovies, and 1 pint of oysters. Grate Jib. of bread very fine, add a little essence of anchovies, and work it into a paste with two eggs. Add this to the Mutton mixture, and when thoroughly incor- porated put it into pots or jars until wanted for use. It may be made into small balls or sausage-like rolls and fried, or put into skins. (5) Chop very fine fib. of beef-suet free from skin, also 1 Jib. of lean of Mutton free from skin and sinew, and add 1J pints of oysters bearded and washed in their own liquor, 6oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, and Joz. each of black pepper and salt. Mix all thoroughly together and then stir into them the strained liquor of the oysters and the beaten yolks of three eggs. Beat the whites of the three eggs to a stiff froth and mix them in last. Put the mixture into well-cleaned skins, tie them at intervals with fine string, and hang them up until wanted to fry. Prick them with a fork before frying. Mutton Saute.—Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over a few slices of cold cooked Mutton, put them into a frying- pan with a little butter or bacon-fat, and heat them tho- roughly but slowly. Turn them frequently, and when they are almost done, sprinkle over a little finely-chopped parsley, put them on a dish, and serve with the fat from the pan poured over. Mutton Scalloped.—(1) Mince some Mutton, chop up also some mixed pickles with it, moisten well with good gravy seasoned with walnut ketchup and a small quantity of W orcestershire sauce, and add pepper and salt to taste. Put the mixture into scallop shells, strew it thickly with sifted breadcrumbs, brown them nicely, and serve very hot. (2) Cut some cold Mutton into small neat pieces, and trim them nicely; melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in J table-spoonful of flour, and when smoothly mixed pour in slowly 1 teacupful of clear nicely-flavoured stock. Stir it until boiling, then put in the meat, add a seasoning of chopped thyme and parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the meat over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. Fill some scallop shells with the meat and sauce, strew finely-grated breadcrumbs over them, pour in each 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, and brown under a salamander. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the scallop shells on it, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Finely mince lib. of cooked Mutton with one cooked onion, season to taste with salt and pepper, and mix a For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Mutton—continued. small quantity of good gravy with it. Put the mince into scallop shells, each of which should be three-parts full. Mash 2 or 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiled potatoes, moisten- ing them with a little cream, spread them over the top of the mince in the shells, and mark them over with the prongs of a fork. Put a piece of butter on the top of each, and place them in a brisk oven until nicely browned. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper over a hot dish, arrange the scallops on it, leaving them in the shells, garnish with neat groups of parsley, and serve. (4) Take some cold roast Mutton, cut it up into slices, remove the skin and fat, and season with salt and pepper. Put first a layer of bread or cracker-crumbs on the bottom of a well-buttered, shallow dish, next a layer of meat, then a layer of oysters strained and seasoned, then a little tomato or brown gravy, then more crumbs, meat, &c., until all are used up, having a thicker layer of crumbs moistened with 3oz. of melted butter at the top. (5) Cut some slices, about Jin. thick, off a boiled or roast leg of Mutton, and trim them neatly, making them all one size. Season some finely-grated breadcrumbs with pepper, salt, and powdered sweet herbs; dip the slices of Mutton in beaten egg, then in the prepared breadcrumbs, and leave them for an hour or two; afterwards egg-and-breadcrumb them again. Put a good-sized lump of lard or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the scallops and fry them until of a delicate brown. Have ready prepared a puree of any kind of vegetables liked, place it in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the scallops round, and serve. Mutton Soubise.—Peel two large Spanish onions, two carrots, and two small turnips, and cut the carrots and turnips into small balls with a vegetable-cutter. Boil the vege- tables separately in salted water until tender. Trim off the fat from five or six Mutton chops, dip them into well- beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs that have been seasoned with salt and pepper; put a lump of clarified fat into a frying-pan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the chops and fry them, turning them when browned on one side and brown the other. Drain the boiled vegetables, chop the onions, put them in a saucepan, dredge them with flour and a small quantity of salt and pepper, pour in gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling, then put in 2oz. of butter. When the cutlets are cooked, drain, and arrange them in a circle upon a hot dish, put the carrots and turnips in the centre, pour the onion sauce round, and serve while very hot. Mutton Soup.—(1) Take fib. of lean Mutton, a cutlet or steak from the leg is best, and cut it into small bits about Jin. square. Have Jib. each of turnips, carrots, and onions, and cut them as small as the meat. Put the meat in a soup-kettle with lgall. of cold water, and let it come slowly to the boil. When it boils, throw in the vegetables together with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, Jib. of pearl barley, J saltspoonful of pepper, and 1 level table- spoonful qf salt, and let the soup simmer till both meat and vegetables are quite tender and the pearl barley well cooked. This soup should not be skimmed. (2) Take the remnants of a cold leg of Mutton, break the bone into moderate-sized pieces, and put them in a saucepan with a few carrots, turnips, and onions, say two of each, that have been peeled and cut up; put in also a bay- leaf, a few sprigs of thyme, parsley, and marjoram. Pour in 2qts. of water, add J table-spoonful each of peppercorns and allspice, eight or ten cloves, and salt to taste. Place the saucepan over the fire with the lid off until the water boils, then skim well, and move it to the side, where it may simmer for four or five hours. At the end of that time, strain the liquor into one basin, and pass the vegetables through a fine hair sieve into another basin, keeping back the parsley, &e. Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire until mixed; skim the fat off the liquor, stir it in with the flour and butter, and when it boils mix in the puree of vegetables. Pour the boiling soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or crotitons of bread that have been fried a delicate brown in butter. uses, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 4 c