THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. (57 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£-c., referred to, see under their special heads Os-Tongues—continued. from the fire, pour in 1 wineglassful of wine, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve very hot, with a garnish of hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. See Fig. 84. Ox-Tongue in Aspic Jelly.—(1) Trim off the roots of a skinned cold boiled tongue, either fresh or salted. Pack a igall mould in ice, pour in a little warmed aspic jelly to cover the bottom to about lin. in depth, let it set, garnish with beetroot cut in various shapes, pour over a little more aspic to set them, place the tongue up- side down on the top, pour over 1 teacupful more of the jelly to fix the tongue in its place, then fill up the mould with jelly, and let it remain until set and quite firm. Turn it out on to a dish, garnish with parsley and pickles, and serve. Pickled beetroot if possible should be used. (2) Put an Ox-Tongue in a saucepan with sufficient cold water to cover it; place it over the fire until boiling, then skim the liquor, stand the saucepan at the edge of the fire, and stew the tongue until tender. When the tongue is cooked, drain, skin, curl it round, and place it in a large mould. Put loz. of soaked gelatine into a saucepan with 1 qt. of stock, and about one dozen peppercorns; stir them over the fire until boiling and the gelatine has dissolved, then strain the liquor through a jelly-bag over the tongue in the mould, leave it until quite cold and firm, then turn the tongue and jelly out of the mould on to a dish over which has been spread a lace-edged dish- paper or a folded napkin, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve. Ox-Tongue Patties.—Prepare a forcemeat of truffles, grated Hamburg beef, breadcrumbs, and a plentiful seasoning of spices, and bind it with beaten egg. Cut an Ox-Tongue into thin slices, put a little of the forcemeat on each, and roll them up, fastening them with skewers. Brush the rolls over with a paste-brusli dipped in beaten egg, and roll them in breadcrumbs; put them in a frying-pan with butter or clarified fat, and fry them until nicely browned. Make some flaky paste, roll it out thinly, and cut it into pieces 24in. long. Remove the skewers from the rolls of fried tongue, and lay one on each piece of paste; roll them up, moistening the paste at the ends and pinching them together; brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, and fry again. When the paste is cooked and of a golden colour, drain the rolls on a sheet of kitchen-paper for a minute or two, place them on a dish over which should have been spread a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Ox-Tongue Toast.—Mince the required quantity of cold boiled Ox-Tongue, put it into a saucepan, mix in a little cream or milk, boil up, and add the well-beaten yolks of eggs to thicken. Have ready several rounds of toast, butter them, mask them with the tongue preparation, and serve very hot Pickled Ox-Tongue.—(1) Rub the tongue well with salt and let it drain for three days. Put into a saucepan a pickle composed of lib. of salt, |oz. each of salprunella and saltpetre, ilb. of coarse moist sugar, ten juniper berries, three or four bay-leaves, 1 table-spoonful of strong vinegar, and 6 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Set the saucepan on the fire, boil for thirty minutes, turn the whole into a bowl or dish, and let it get cold. Place the tongue in it, and let it remain for three weeks or a month, turning it daily. Should it be required for immediate use three weeks will be long enough, but if allowed to remain Ox-Ton gues—contin ut d. a month in the pickle it will require to be hung for a few days before using. (2) Put a tongue into a basin, dredge it with salt, and let it remain for two days. Remove the salt and any slime there may be on the tongue, and rub it well with a mixture composed of lib. of saltpetre and 1 table-spoonful of coarse moist sugar. Let it remain in this for seven weeks, turning and covering it well daily; take it out, rub it dry, and hang up in a dry place for five or six days a.ul it will be ready for use. If desired, the tongue need only be left in the pickle for from three to five weeks, and can be used at once without being hung up to dry. (3) Rub a tongue well with salt and let it remain for five hours in a basin; pour ort' the liquor, and rub the tongue well with 2oz. of saltpetre, afterwards rub it with a mixture of loz. of salprunella and 4oz. of coarse brown sugar. Place it back in the basin and let it remain for four days. Put lgall. of water into a saucepan with sufficient salt to make a brine capable of supporting an egg, and add i-lb. of moist sugar, 4oz. of bay-salt, and 2oz. of saltpetre. Boil well for fifteen minutes, removing all the scum as it rises, pour it into a bowl, and let it get cold. Put in the tongue, turn it every day for a fort- night, take it out, and smoke it. It is then ready for use. Potted Ox-Tongue.—(1) Put a pickled tongue intoa saucepan of water and boil it for three hours or until tender; plunge it into cold water for a few minutes, take it out, and skin it. C hop it up small and pound in a mortar to a paste. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of butter into a saucepan, and melt it; add 1 teaspoonful of mixed ground spices, having half mace and the remainder nutmeg, cloves, and cayenne in equal proportions, to the tongue and a little salt if required, and lastly the clear part of the melted butter. Pound and mix thoroughly, press the mixture into jars, pour over more melted butter, cover the jars, and keep them in a dry place until wanted. (2) Rub a neat’s tongue well over with loz. of saltpetre mixed with £lb. of sugar, and let it remain for a couple of days. Put it into a saucepan of water, boil until it is quite tender, remove the skin and side bits, and cut it into very thin slices. Put the slices in a mortar and pound them, adding lib. of clarified butter, a little powdered mace, and salt and pepper to taste. When the mass is as fine as possible, put it into small pots, pour over some hob clarified butter, and the mixture is ready for use. (3) Take off all the skin and gristle as well as any dis- coloured parts from lib. of cold boiled tongue, chop it up, and pound it in a mortar. Season well with cayenne, ground mace, and allspice, and work in either 2oz. of butter, or 4oz. of the fat from the tongue. Squeeze the mixture into small jars or pots, cover them with clarified flutter, or beef-suet, put them in a cool place, and let them remain until wanted. A little made mustard may also be added to the paste. Pressed Ox-Tongue.—Prepare a pickle with lib. of salt, 4oz. of coarse moist sugar, and |oz. each of saltpetre and salprunella-; rub an Ox-Tongue well with it daily for about three weeks. Put it into a saucepan of water, boil up, change the water, and boil for four hours. Place the tongue in a collaring-tin or mould, put a weight on the top, and let it get cold. Turn it out on to a dish, surround it with a paper band, and serve. It may be glazed if desired. Roasted Ox-Tongue.—(1) Put an Ox-Tongue into a basin of warm water and let it remain for twelve hours or so to extract all the blood. Cut off the root and superfluous fat, scrape it, stud it with cloves, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil for two hours or more according to the size. Take it out, drain, mask it with beaten yolk of egg, roll it in breadcrumbs, pass a skewer through lengthwise, and roast before a clear fire, basting frequently with butter. When done, put it on a dish, pour over a little gravy mixed with white, wine, and serve. (2) Soak a tongue for twelve hours in a basin of water, take it out, drain, lard it with strips of bacon, and rub well over with salt. Tie pieces of buttered paper