100 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. trim the fillets and put them in a frying-pan with a little butter. Cut the minion fillets off, lay them on the table, and slightly beat them; trim them like the others, fix them together, two and two, using a little forcemeat to fix them, sprinkle salt and pepper over, and put them in with the large fillets. The forcemeat should be prepared with the flesh of a raw Partridge and a few trimmings of poultry. Put the bones and backs, broken up into small pieces, into a saucepan with two or three slices of carrots, turnips, and onions, two or three little pieces of ham, a few sprigs of sweet herbs, and some Madeira wine and gravy mixed in equal quantities; simmer for lialf-an-hour, then skim the fat off the liquor, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and with it prepare a little brown sauce. Sprinkle some flour on the table, put the force- ' meat on it, cut it into six equal portions, roll them out to a pear shape, and flatten them. Butter the inside of a stewpan, put the pieces of forcemeat in it, pour some water in, add a small lump of salt, and poach them. When cooked, drain and leave them till cool; then dip them in beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs, put them in a frying-pan with a little warmed butter, and fry on both sides till nicely browned. Fry the fillets to lightly colour them, but not to overdo them. Drain the fillets and pieces of forcemeat when done, arrange them alternately in a circular order on a hot dish, fill the centre with some minced mushrooms that have been mixed with the sauce, and serve. Escabecliar of Partridges.—This famous Spanish dish is a great favourite. Singe three Partridges, divide each into five parts, and put them in a saute-pan with a gill of oil and sweet herbs, a few peppercorns and cloves, and two un- peeled cloves of garlic; fry the pieces of Partridges till nicely browned, then pour in some broth mixed with a little vinegar, and move the pan to the side of the fire so as to let the contents cook quickly. Take the pieces of Partridges out when very tender, and put them on a dish. Stir into the cooking liquor 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of aspic jelly and boil it for three minutes longer; then pass it through a fine hair sieve over the Partridges. This dish is to be served cold. Essence of Partridge.—Break up the bones of six Partridges (having first removed the fillets and put them by for further use), and place them in a saucepan with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of Madeira. Boil the wine till reduced to a glaze, then pour in 3qts. of broth. Boil it up, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain the essence through a broth-napkin, skim it well, and bottle for use. Pillets of Cold Partridges Glazed.—Fillet some cold roasted Partridges, and put all the meat oft’ the carcases in a mortar with a few mushrooms and truffles. Put the bones, the trimmings off the truffles, some eschalots, and a laurel- leaf in a saucepan with \ pint of white wine, and boil it till reduced to three-quarters the original quantity. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and mix 2 table spoonfuls of clear stock with it. Put half of the sauce in a sauce- pan with the pounded meat, &c., and stir it with a wooden spoon over the fire till boiling; then pass it through a fine hair sieve, and leave it till cold. Arrange the fillets round an entree-dish, with alternate slices of truffles cut in the same shape, turn the puree in the centre, pour the remainder of the sauce over, put some croutons of clear meat jelly round, and serve. Fillets of Partridges a la Financiere.—Trim and lard the fillets of six Partridges with thin strips of fat bacon, put them in a saute-pan with a little melted glaze, and cook them. Make a croustade of paste, the same size as the dish on which the fillets are to be served and 2in. deep. Prepare a financiere ragout of foies gras, truffles, mush- rooms, cocks’ combs and kernels, and chicken forcemeat quenelles, mixed in financiere sauce. Trim the minion fillets into scallops, and mix them in the ragout, half of which should be turned into the croustade. Arrange the fillets on it in a circle, pile the remaining ragout in the centre, and serve with a sauceboatful of financiere sauce. - Partridges—continued. Fillets of Partridges a la Florentine.—Cut the fillets off the breasts of some cold roasted Partridges, trim them nicely, put them in a stewpan with some white stock and a small piece of glaze, and make them hot. Take the fillets out, and reduce the stock to a glaze. Put 1 pint of half- glaze of game into a saucepan and boil it till reduced to a third its original quantity; then mix with it the glaze in which the fillets were warmed, some dressed cocks’ combs, and an equal quantity each of blanched mushrooms and small French truffles, adding a little sugar. Put the fillets in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce, cocks’ combs, &c., in the centre, and serve while very hot. Fillets of Partridges d la Toulouse.—Cut the fillets off six Partridges, and trim and curve them slightly; put the large ones in one buttered saute-pan and the minion fillets in another. Stick a little piece of truffle with the white of egg on the round ends of each of the small fillets. Fry the large fillets, and when cooked drain and arrange them round a croustade on a hot dish. Cook the small fillets in the oven, and when done put in a circle on the others. Fill the croustade with cocks’ kernels mixed in supreme sauce, pour some supreme sauce over the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Partridges with Lentils.—Remove the fillets from some Partridges, skin them, beat them lightly, and trim them to a nice shape. Season the fillets with salt and pepper, lard them, wrap each in a slice of fat bacon, and then in a sheet of paper. Thickly spread the interior of a saute-pan with butter, lay the fillets in it, and cook them in the oven for eight or ten minutes. Prepare some Partridge forcemeat, put it into a buttered border mould, and poach it in a bain-marie. The inside of the mould can be decorated with fancy-shaped pieces of truffles. Turn the border out on to a hot dish, and when the fillets have been divested of the paper and bacon arrange them on it; fill the centre with a puree of lentils, pour a little melted glaze over it, and coat over the border and fillets with Spanish sauce that has been re- duced with essence of Partridge. Fillets of Partridges Sautes.—Procure four young Par- tridges (rather stale if possible, as they will then have more flavour), flay them, and separate the small inside fillets from the upper ones; remove all the sinews from the small fillets, and flatten them with the handle of a knife dipped in cold water ; then dip the blade in, and take off the second skin of the fillets with it. Trim and arrange the large fillets in a sautd-pan, put the small ones over them, place a lump of butter on the top, sprinkle a little salt over, and leave them till ready to fry. Put the rem- nants of the birds in a stewpan with some thin slices of veal and ham, pour in a little stock broth (see Broth), and let it heat slowly over the fire ; then pour in some boiling broth, a few mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and two or three green onions, and let it simmer by the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain the liquor through. a fine hair sieve into another stewpan, and re- duce it to glaze. Fry the fillets in the saute-pan over a brisk fire, browning them equally all over; drain the butter off, put in 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce and an equal quantity of the above glaze of game, and stir them over the fire, but do not allow it to boil; then pour in a little thick cream, adding more seasoning if required. Cut as many slices of bread as there are fillets, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides in butter. Arrange these croutons of bread on a hot dish, put a large fillet on each, then a smaller one on the top, pour the sauce over, and serve. Fillets of Partridges with Small Vegetables.—Cook in front of a clear fire some young Partridges, keeping them rather underdone; leave them till nearly cold, then remove the fillets from the breasts, trim each fillet, and put them in a flat stewpan with a small piece of glaze and sufficient white stock to cover them. When the liquor boils, take the fillets out, keep them hot, and reduce the liquor to a glaze. Peel and cut some carrots, turnips, and button- onions into small rounds, using a vegetable-cutter for the purpose, and boil all separately in water till partly cooked. Drain them, put them in a saucepan 'with a little