THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 176 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, i-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. ing the stitches which retain the stuffing, and garnish with brussels sprouts and potato croquettes (see Fig. 228). Place the dripping-pan over the fire, stir in 1 table- spoonful of flour, and brown it; then add equal quantities of boiling water and wine, or three-parts of water and one of mushroom or walnut ketchup. Let the gravy thus made boil once, season it with salt and pepper, and then serve it with the baked Pig. The stuffing may he varied by using mashed potatoes instead of soaked bread. Apple sauce is the usual accompaniment. Cold slam and cranberry jelly or stewed cranberries are used in South America with roasted or baked sucking Pig. Prepare the apple sauce as follows: Peel, core, and quarter some tart apples, stew them to a pulp over a slow fire, adding at first 3 table-spoonfuls of water to 1 pint of apples, to prevent burning; when the apples are stewed to a pulp, stir them with 1 table-spoonful of butter to each pint of the sauce, and then use the sauce either hot or cold. (2) Clean and wash a small Pig, rub it well all over with butter, and then sprinkle with flour. Put it into a well-buttered baking-dish, and set it in the oven to hake for about two hours. When done, take the Pig out, rub it well with a greased cloth, and put it hack in the oven, with the door open, to dry. Take it out, chop off its head, which must be split in halves, then cut the Pig in halves lengthwise and put it on a dish, back to hack, and place the halves of head at either end. Skim off the fat from the liquor in the baking dish, add a little veal gravy and a small lump of butter rolled in flour to thicken it, boil it up once, pour it through a sieve over the Pig, and serve. (3) Clean a young Pig, stuff it with potatoes, boiled and mashed together with a little milk, and add salt and pepper to taste. Sew up the belly and truss it with the fore legs secured backwards and' the hind-legs forward. Put it on a trivet in a baking-pan, cover with small lumps of butter, and dust over with flour, salt and pepper. Put the pan in a hot oven, pour 1 pint of water in it, and let it bake, hasting it with the water and drippings. When it is nearly done, haste it with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, shut the oven door, and let it remain until quite done, which will be about two hours in all. Take it out, put it carefully on a dish; thicken the gravy with a little flour, stir it well, boil it up and strain it over the Pig. Serve a little currant or apple sauce with it in a sauceboat. Galantine of Sucking-Pig.—Use a freshly killed Sucking- Pig, split it lengthwise, remove the inside, and wash it thoroughly. Bone the Pig, with the exception, of the head hones and the hones of the first joints of the feet. Chop 21b. of lean veal, Jib. of tongue, bib. of ham, and Jib. of fat bacon. Put the veal and bacon in a mortar, and pound them to a smooth paste. Add 1 breakfast-cupful of stale breadcrumbs and Jib. of butter, and pound again. When the above mixture is quite smooth, mix with it the chopped ham and tongue, four hard-boiled eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of blanched pistachio-nuts, and 1 wineglassful of brandy. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity each of grated nutmeg and mace. Stir these ingredients so that they get thoroughly well mixed together, stuff the Pig with the mixture, and sew it up. Wrap the Pig in a piece of calico, and hind it round securely with tape. Put a plate at the bottom of a large saucepan, in which put the bones of the Pig, a calf’s foot cut into small pieces, a hunch of sweet herbs, two or three cloves, the same of peppercorns, a clove of garlic, and a French roll cut into halves. Put in the Pig, pour in sufficient French light wine to cover, and close the lid tightly. Place the saucepan over the fire until the liquor boils, then move it to the side and keep it simmering for five hours. When the Pig is cooked, drain it, remove the bindings and cloth, rub it over with pure oil, and dredge with a small quantity of salt, then put it in a brisk oven. When nicely browned, stand the Pig on its feet on a long dish. Strain the cooking liquor of the Pig through a fine hair sieve, and leave both until the following day. Remove all the fat that will have settled on the top of the jelly, put the jelly into a saucepan, and place Pigs —continued. it over a slow fire until melted. Beat the whites and shells of two eggs together, then stir them quickly into jelly. Continue stirring until boiling, then strain it through a jelly-hag until quite clear. Brown half of the jelly with brown colouring, leave it with the plain jelly until set, then cut it into fancy-shaped pieces, and garnish the Pig with it. If placed upon ice, the galantine may be kept for a week or two. Roasted Sucking-Pig.—(1) Clean a Sucking-Pig, and stuff it with veal forcemeat. Sew up the belly, and truss it with the legs brought together at the sides. Wipe it well with a cloth and rub it all over with flour. Put it in front of a clear fire with a dripping-pan under it, and let it roast, basting frequently with a little olive-oil or its own gravy, or both, and occasionally brushing it over with butter. When done (it will take from an-hour-and-a-half to two hours), take it up, and with a sharp knife cut off the head, and split it in halves. Then cut the Pig down the Fig. 229. Roasted Sucking-Pig. centre of the hack, lay the halves hack to hack on the dish, and put the halves of head at each end (see Fig. 229), in which the dotted lines indicate the manner of carving. Add a little thin melted butter and lemon-juice to the gravy, boil it up, and strain it over the Pig. A little only of the gravy should he poured over, and the remainder served in a sauceboat if desired. (2) Clean and wash a Sucking-Pig, and stuff it with a forcemeat made as follows: Put the crumb of a French roll into a basin with 6oz. of finely-slired beef-suet, and add the peel of half a lemon chopped up with a sprig of parsley and six sage-leaves. Sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and mix it into a paste with the yolks of two eggs. Sew up the cut with strong thread, put the Pig on the spit, and roast it before a clear fire until nearly done. Remove it from the lire, and take out the stuffing care- fully, in one piece if possible. Cut the Pig up into small pieces or slices, and put them into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of gravy, 1 of white wine, and a couple of onions cut up small. Add a little seasoning of thyme, the peel of half a lemon finely-minced, and grated nutmeg, cayenne, and salt to taste. Cover the pan closely, set the pan on the fire, and stew gently for an hour. Then put in a small lump of butter rolled in flour, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom pickle, the same of anchovy sauce, and lastly the stuffing cut into small squares. Cook for fifteen minutes longer, then take out the pieces of Pig’s meat, arrange them on a dish, pour the remainder over, and serve. Timbale of Sucking-Pig.—Cut up half a small Sucking-Pig into small pieces, and put them in a saucepan with a little mirepoix and white wine, and boil them. Take out the pieces of meat, and let them cool, removing the hones if any. Add a little calf’s-foot jelly to the liquor, and clarify it. Pack a large-sized timbale mould in ice, place poached eggs intermixed with sliced gherkins and slices of beetroot at the bottom and round the sides, dipping each into half-set jelly to keep them fixed in their places. Pour a thick layer of jelly at the bottom of the mould, and when it is set and firm, arrange the pieces of Pig’s meat, alternating with minced gherkins , and whole capers, taking care to leave a hollow space in