THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 57 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Marrow—continued. it was considered quite the fashion to serve marrow-hones at table as a sort of luxurious supper-dish; they were then dressed as follows : Marrow-bones.—(1) Take the bones from two legs of beef and saw them into pieces about 4in. long. Scrape them well to clean them, and put them in cold water to soak. Place them in a saucepan (side by side, not standing up), cover with good stock, boil up quickly, and then remove the pan to the side of the fire and simmer gently for an- hour-and-a-half. Take out the bones, drain, put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with slices of hot toast. (2) Have the bones chopped at the ends, so that when sawn into halves each half will stand steady ; wash them clean, saw each bone in two, tie over each half a floured cloth, and boil them in water for two hours. Serve them standing upright on a napkin (see Fig. 73). Send them to table as hot as possible, and serve dry toast with them. The value of Ox-marrow when in combination with other foods, and therefore taking the place of other fat, may be said to have been discovered quite recently; or, at any rate, it is quite in later years that cooks seem to have recognised its merit as seen in the following re- ceipts. Ox-marrow from the bones must not be confounded with that from the spinal column. See Amourettes. Imitation Marrow Omelet. -Beat six eggs well, and season them with pepper and a little salt that has been dissolved in water. Put loz. of butter in an omelet-pan, place it over the tire until melted, then move it to the side and pour in the eggs. Turn the pan continually at the edge of the fire, but without putting it right over, as this would be too hot, and the middle part of the omelet must be kept mellow. When set, roll the omelet up with a knife, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Ox-Marrow in Croustades.—With a plain round tin cutter about lin. in diameter cut out of a solid lump of butter as many croustades as are required. Dip the pats of butter in beaten eggs, roll them well in finely-grated breadcrumbs, and let them stand for an hour or two. Dip the croustades again in beaten eggs and breadcrumbs, then with a plain tin cutter fin. in diameter make a circular incision in the centre of each. Lay the croustades in a frying-basket, leaving a small space between each, plunge them into boiling lard, and fry till lightly browned. When cooked, lift the inner circle of the croustades and let the interior butter drip out. Turn the croustades upside-down on a cloth, and put them in a screen to diy. Pick the marrow out of a bone, cut it into pieces the size of an almond, and put them into a saucepan with some boiling milk and water; add a small quantity of salt-, and boil them for a minute. Drain the pieces of marrow, mix them in some hot Italian sauce, fill the croustades with the mixture, and replace the lids. Put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with some ne it sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Ox-Marrow Fritters.—Put |lb. of marrow, taken from the largest bones of the animal and kept in one piece, into cold water, and let it soak. Put it into a saucepan with good broth, boil it for ten minutes, and then let it cool in its liquor. When quite cold, drain and cut it into two Ox-Marrow—continued. dozen slices; cover half of them on one side only with some cooked line herbs, and over that again put a layer of cooked truffle, and glaze it all over (both truffle and marrow) with a paste-brush; when the glaze is cold, take the pieces of marrow singly, dip them into frying-batter, Fig. 74. Ox-Marrow Fritters. and fry them ; when the batter is dry and of a good colour, drain the fritters, put them on a napkin folded on a dish, arrange them in a heap, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley (see Fig. 74). Ox-Marrow Garnishing.—Open two fine marrow bones by setting them upright on the table, the marrow part on top, and with a sharp blow of a cleaver splitting them in two, striking on one side only. Remove the marrow, put it into freshly-salted water, and let it remain for one hour; then take it up, drain, and cut it into slices. Heat ^ pint of Madeira sauce, add the pieces of marrow, and let it boil up once with a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Serve with the slices of marrow on top. Ox-Marrow Patties.—(1) Blanch Jib. of sweet almonds and pound them in a mortar, adding occasionally a few drops of orange-flower water. When quite smooth, mix with them 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour, the beaten yolks of three eggs, and sufficient warm water to make the whole into a smooth paste. Butter some small shallow moulds, line them with the paste, brush over with a paste-brush dipped in well-beaten yolk of egg, and bake them in a slow oven. Chop and flavour some marrow with lemon-peel and mix some thick cream with it. When the patties are cooked, take them out of their moulds, put a small piece of the marrow mixture in each, spread them over with white of egg that has been whipped to a stiff froth, and dredge lightly over with caster sugar. Put them in the oven to set the egg, then place them on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve very hot. (2) Scoop the marrow out of the bones, cut it into small pieces, boil them for a minute in salted water, then put them on a sieve to drain. Line some buttered patty-pans until thinly rolled out puli' paste, fill them with uncooked rice, cover with rounds of puff paste, and bake them. Season the marrow with salt, pepper, finely-chopped shallot, and a small quantity of lemon-juice. When cooked, empty the rice out of the patties, fill them with the marrow, and replace the covers. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the patties on it, and serve while hot. Ox-Marrow Pudding (Baked).—(1) Pour 1 pint of boiling milk over the crumb of a household loaf of bread, and when it is quite cold work in four eggs, 1 lb. of marrow cut into thin slices, and 1 teacupful of brandy mixed with sugar and nutmeg to taste; when they are all thoroughly incorporated, put the mass into a well-buttered tin or mould, place some slices of citron on the top, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Turn it out and serve. Or it may be boiled in the mould and will take about two hours; when done, turn it out, stick the pieces of citron over it, and serve. (2) Cut some very thin slices of bread, and put a layer at the bottom of a pie-dislfi, over this put a layer of marrow or finely-chopped beef-suet, on top of that a layer of currants, washed and dried, then a layer of bread, another layer of marrow or suet, then currants, and so on till the