1003 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£•<:., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. the yolks of four eggs with the juice of two lemons, put them in a small saucepan, and stir over the hre till thick without letting them boil, or they will curdle. "VV hen the meat is tender, turn the stew on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Stewed Mutton with Peas.—Wash a lettuce nicely, cut the heart and best leaves in pieces, and put them in a stewpan with an onion peeled and sliced ; shell § peck of green peas not too young and put them also into the stew- pan together with the Mutton cut in pieces. Add \ pint of stock in which a turnip has been boiled, and simmer very gently for three hours; thicken with Hour and butter, add a little Worcestershire sauce, and serve hot. If the Mutton has been cooked before it should not lie put into the stewpan till the peas have been stewing for an-hour- and-a half. Stewed Mutton in Persian Style.—Chop the flesh of a leg of Mutton into equal-sized pieces, sprinkle over salt and pepper, put them in a basin or pan, cover with onions cut in slices and the juice of three or four lemons, and let them soak for a couple of hours. Take them out, drain, put them into a saucepan with some fat, and cook briskly for a few minutes over a clear fire, to set the flesh. Pour in sufficient broth to about three-parts the height of the meat, cover the pan, put it over a slow fire with hot ashes on the lid, and let it cook slowly until done. Put the meat on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, add 1 handful of dried and shred sweet almonds, and two or three dozen prunes, boiled and drained, and warm it up without boil- ing. Put the prunes and almonds round the meat, thicken the liquor with a little syrup of stewed raisins, add the juice of two or three lemons, pour it over the meat, and serve. See Fig. 1240. Stewed Mutton with. Potatoes.—Exactly the same as for Stewed Mutton a la Fermiere, replacing the garnish- ing with 1 pint of small potatoes cut in quarters, trimming the edges a little, also six small onions. Let this cook for thirty minutes, and then serve. Stewed Mutton with Rice.—Trim off all the fat from the short bones of a neck of Mutton and put them in a stew- pan with 4oz. of rice ; fry in butter a few sliced onions, two carrots and turnips, and a stick or two of celery cut into short lengths; when they are nicely browned, put them in the stewpan with the Mutton, dredge over flour, salt, and pepper, moisten with sufficient cold brown stock to just cover, leave the stewpan over the fire until the contents boil, then move it to the side and let them simmer gently until very tender, and the rice has absorbed nearly all the moisture. When cooked, turn the Mutton on to a hot dish, garnish with small carrots and turnips that have been stewed separately in brown stock and glazed, and serve very hot. Stewed Mutton Steak.—Cut off two steaks from a leg of Mutton, and put them into a frying-pan to brown slightly. Place them in a saucepan, and add a few turnips and carrots cut in slices, a head of celery chopped small, some green peas, and a few sprigs of parsley and sorrel. Pour over 1 gill of Mutton broth and 4 wineglassful of red wine. Cover the pan closely and put it at the side of the fire where the contents will simmer gently, tossing the pan frequently to prevent any of the vegetables sticking to the bottom. When done, turn the meat on to a dish, put the vegetables round, and serve. Mutton—continued. Stewed Mutton with Tomatoes.—Trim some Mutton, re- moving most of the fat and the skin, and cut it into small equal-sized pieces; wash and dry them, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till nicely browned; take them out, and fry in the same pan, adding more butter if required, two or three sliced onions. When the onions are browned, drain, and put them with the meat into a stewpan, adding green tomatoes cut into quarters. Put 31b. or 41b. of ripe tomatoes in a basin and press them to extract the juice, which pass through a line hair sieve ; pour the juice over the meat, &c., with sufficient water to cover, and stew them at the side of the fire. When the meat is tender and the liquor reduced till thick, pile the meat in the centre of a hot dish, pour the gravy round, and serve while very hot. Stewed Mutton with Vegetable Marrows a la Turque.— (1) Separate the meat and bones from 41b. of loin of Mutton, and cut the meat into small pieces. Peel six onions, cut them into thin slices, and put them with the meat; dust over salt and pepper, and rub them together. Peel four vegetable marrows, cut them into slices, and scoop out the seeds. Put the bones of the Mutton in a saucepan, cover with slices of vegetable marrow, then a layer of the meat and onions, next a layer of the slices of vegetable marrow, and so on until all are used. Pour in sufficient water to cover, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, add a lump of salt, and let them simmer at the side of the lire till tender. Peel four cloves of garlic, put them in a mortar, pound them very fine, then mix them together with 3 table-spoonfuls of moist sugar with the stew. Boil it gently for ten minutes longer, then turn it, on to a hot dish, dredge 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mint over, and serve. (2) Trim off the skin and fat of 21b. of Muttcn, and cut the lean into small equal-sized pieces, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt and water to cover, and simmer gently until the meat is nearly tender, removing the scum as it rises to the top. Peel four onions, cut them into slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till browned. Peel the requisite quantity of vegetable marrows, cut them into halves, scoop out the seeds, then cut them into slices fin. thick ; drain the pieces of meat, lay some of them at the bottom of a saucepan, then put in a layer of the sliced marrows and onions, next meat, and so on until all are used. Season with salt, and pour in the water in which the Mutton was first stewed; a small quantity of broth can be added if there is not enough of the liquor. When boiling move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently until the vegetable marrow is tender. Squeeze the juice of two lemons into the stew, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped mint, boil it for two minutes longer, then turn it on to a hot dish, dust some powdered cinnamon over it, and serve. Stewed Neck of Mutton. -(1) Trim off the fat from a neck of Mutton weighing about 5lb. and put the neck into a saucepan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water and a little salt and pepper, and simmer gently for twenty minutes. Put the meat on a dish, skim the fat from the broth, add a little cayenne and chopped parsley, boil for twenty minutes longer, and thicken with a little butter rolled in flour ; pour it over the meat, and serve. (2) Cut off a little of the fat from a neck of Mutton, and chop it up into well-shaped cutlets. Put them into a saucepan with a little salt and pepper, cover with a layer of green peas and onions cut in slices, then put another layer of meat, cover again with green peas and onions, and add a few slices of cucumber. Pour in 1 pint of water, put the pan over the fire, and cook the meat gently until done. If the liquor evaporates, add a little more water. Put the meat, &c., on a dish, skim off the fat from the gravy, pour it over, and serve. The cucumbers only require a little cooking, therefore they should be taken out as soon as done, and returned to the pan just before serving the meat. Stewed Neck of Mutton a la Duchesse.—Select a whole neck of Mutton with the scrag end attached weighing about 31b.