122 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. pieces of a rectangular shape, about 4in. long and 2in. broad, which cut again into halves, across and from one corner to the other; mark with the point of a knife in lines converging to the square coiner, so as to resemble a fan. Butter a baking-tin, lay the pieces of Paste on their sides on it, leaving a small space between them, and bake in a very quick oven. Arrange them on a hot dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. (2) Melt 1 Jib. of fresh butter, turn it into a basin with ljlb. of caster sugar, and beat it until well mixed; then stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a stiff Paste. Turn the Paste on to a table or paste board over which a small quantity of flour has been sifted, and work it well for a few minutes. Divide the Paste into small portions, shape into round cakes, lay them on a buttered baking-tin, put them in a moderate oven, and bake till of a light golden colour. Puff Paste with Clotted Cream.—Mix four eggs, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and sufficient water to make a soft Paste with 1 Jib. of flour, and work it Mrell with the hands, dipping them occasionally in warmed butter; dredge flour over the table, roll the Paste out as thin as possible, and cut it into rounds about 6in. in diameter. Butter a baking-sheet, lay half of the rounds on it, and brush over each round with a butter-brush dipped in warmed butter. Divide about It lb. of clotted cream into small pieces, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, lay a piece of cream on each piece, and cover them with the remainder of the rounds. The pieces of cream should be brushed all over until the white of egg, as that will prevent it melting during cooking. Bake in a moderate oven. Boil lib. of loaf sugar in lqt. of water until reduced to a syrup. When cooked and lightly coloured, take the Pastry out of the oven, pour over the syrup, dust with caster sugar, and serve. Royal Pastry.—Put J- pint of water in a large saucepan with a little more than Jib. of fresh butter, 2oz. of sugar, the peel of one lemon, and 1 pinch of salt. Boil it till the butter is melted, then take the lemon-peel out; throw in sufficient finely-sifted flour to make a stiff Paste, stir it over the Are with a wooden spoon till the Paste can be easily detached from the saucepan, then take it oft'. Break in, one at a time, five or six eggs, but do not put more than the Paste can absorb, and mix each one in before the next is added. Shape the Paste into equal sized balls, and put them, about lin. apart from each other, on a baking-sheet. Brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg and milk, put them in a moderately hot oven, and do not open the door till they are done, or they will flatten. Dry them, detach them from the baking-sheet with the point of a knife, make a small hole in the tops, put 1 teaspoonful of jam or any kind of sweetmeat in each, and serve. Short-Paste Cakes.—Put 12oz. of fresh butter in a sauce- pan, place it over the fire until melted, then mix in gra- dually a little over lib. of the finest wheat-flour, and stir over the fire until the flour is lightly browned. Remove the flour from the fire, and beat it until smooth and cool, then mix in 1,1b. of caster sugar and a small grated nutmeg. Knead the mixture with the hands, then divide it into small portions, which mould into fancy cakes. Butter a baking-sheet, lay the cakes on it, put them in a moderate oven, and bake till of a pale golden colour. These cakes will keep for some months, provided they are put into biscuit-tins and kept in a dry cup- board. Turkish Pastry.—Work Jib. of fresh butter into lib. of ground rice, and when smooth add Jib. of caster sugar and 1 saltspoonful of salt; mix the whole into a rather stiff Paste with orange-flower water. Mould the Paste into rather large balls, lay them on a baking-dish over which has been spread a sheet of buttered paper, cover with another sheet of buttered paper, and bake for half- an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, pile the balls on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, sift caster sugar over them, and serve. PASTILLES .—The name given to small lozenges or loaves. Pastilles are made of a variety of aromatics; they derive their title from the Latin pastillus, the diminutive of pastus—food. Receipts for their manufacture will be found under Apricots, Chocolate, Currants, Dam- sons, Ginger, Oranges, Raspberries, &c. PASTRY.—See Paste and Pastry. PASTRY CREAMS.—Another name for Eclairs. PASTY—The name given to a sort of savoury pie, especially used in connection with game and venison. FATfi DE FOIES GRAS.—See Goose’s Fat Liver. PATNA RICE. —See Rice. PATTEN-or PATEN-PASTE. —Literally Paste that is used for spreading over a Paten or dish. See Paste (Puff). FATTIES (.Fr. Pates; Ger. Pasteten). — Although this term has somewhat fallen out of use in this country, being nothing more or less than a corruption of the word pasties, it would he well if it were retained in culinary nomenclature, in order to distinguish between large and small pies. In this way we should speak of oyster or mince Patties as the diminutive of savoury or sweet pies. The following receipts, contributed by famous cooks, give good variety: (1) Take a few small Patty-pans (see Fig. 172) and spread them with short paste. Make a savoury forcemeat of raw calf’s liver, All the pans with it, put over these covers of thin paste, and place them in a slack oven to bake. When done take them out, let them get cold, cut off the covering of paste, take out a little of the inside, Fig. 172. Patty-pans. and put in a little cooked goose’s fat liver. Replace that which was removed, and put it over the goose’s liver, rais- ing the preparation in a dome above the edges of the paste. Set a small jelly crouton on the top. Arrange the Patties in a pyramid on a dish, and garnish with more aspic according to taste. (2) Line some Patty-pans with a light paste at five turns; fill them with quenelle forcemeat, cover each with a round of paste, and trim and press them round the edges. Brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, arrange the Patties on a folded napkin or ornamental paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Cornish. Patties. —(1) Peel Jib. of potatoes, put them into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of salt, and cover with cold water. Place the saucepan over the fire, and when the water boils take out the potatoes and divide them into small square pieces. Peel and cut up into shreds one onion, and chop into small square pieces fib. of beef-steak. Mix the pieces of steak, onions, and potato well together with a fork, and sprinkle over them 1 saltspoonful of pepper and nearly 1 teaspoonful of salt. Chop fine Jib. of beef-suet, stir it into lib. of flour and 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, and mix this to a light dough, adding 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water. Cut the dough into seven or eight pieces, and roll them out till they are Jin. thick. Divide the steak, potatoes, and onions into as many portions as there are pieces of the rolled-out dough, lay a portion on each piece, gather up the edges of the crust, brush the edges with a little cold water, and pinch them firmly together. Brush over each Patty with a little milk or beaten egg, and bake for three- quarters-of-an-hour in a tolerably quick oven. (2) Trim off the skin and discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet, chop it fine, mix it with Jib. of flour, add