For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF Peas—co n tinned. a stewpan, together with 1 pint of young Peas, two spring onions nicely washed (the root trimmed, but the leaves left on), a small bunch of parsley, a seasoning of salt and black pepper, and lib. of butter. Cover the pan closely, and let the vegetables stew for two bom's, shaking the pan frequently, but not uncovering it. Poil 1 pint of young Peas very soft, rub them through a sieve, and add the pulp to the vegetables in the stewpan when removed from the fire. On the following day, warm up the vege- tables in the stewpan, and add to them another pint of young Peas, boiled and passed through a sieve, adding at the same time as much of the water the Peas were boiled in as will reduce the soup to the required thickness. If a smooth soup is preferred all the vegetables may be rubbed through a sieve. (4) Boil 1 pint of old Peas and a French roll in 4qts. : of water until the Peas go to a mash, then rub them through a coarse sieve, put them again over the fire, and j add a seasoning of whole pepper and mace, also 1 pint of young Peas, and let them boil. Cut in pieces, but not very small, two or three cabbage lettuces, a few green onions, and a handful of spinach-leaves; put them over the fire with about 4oz. of butter, and let them cook till very tender. When the Peas are sufficiently boiled, add a few marigold-leaves, and let them boil ; then put in the vegetables stewed in butter, mix together, and serve hot with little squares of bread fried very dry. (5) Shell 1 peck of Peas, and put the old ones into one vessel and the young ones into another. Have a large saucepan half-full of water on the fire. When the water boils, put in the old Peas (reserving the young to boil separately), together with 1 table spoonful of salt, and let them boil for from twenty minutes to half-an-hour, according to their size and age; then drain them in a colander, and put them into the soup-kettle with 3qts. of unseasoned veal or mutton broth. Place the lid on tight, set the pan over a slow tire, and let the contents stew gently for an hour; then add 1 teacupful of breadcrumbs, and rub all through a sieve into a stewpan. Boil the young Peas in hot water, drain, and add them to the soup. Should the soup be too thick, mix with it a little more stock before putting in the freshly-boiled Peas. Then season to taste with salt and sugar, pour it into a tureen, and serve. A few thin slices of cucumber, floured and fried brown, may be added the last thing. If the soup should not be green enough, pound some spinach, and squeeze the juice into it through a cloth. A few leaves of mint may also be added. (6) Boil slowly 31b. of lean beef in 3qts. of water, and skim it well. Boil separately ‘2qts. of green Peas with two or three lumps of sugar, and a little salt. When quite soft, strain the Peas, and pass them through a hair sieve. Strain the soup, mix the pulp with it, and warm all up again together. Turn the soup into a tureen, and serve with squares of toast or croutons of fried bread. (7) Warm Jib. of butter in a saucepan, then put in 3 pints of young green Peas, two onions peeled and sliced, two cucumbers also peeled and sliced, and two chopped cabbage lettuces. Fry them sharply, tossing well, then pour in gradually 3qts. of veal broth; add two or three slices of lean ham, 1 breakfast-cupful of cooked and mashed potatoes, and 1 dessert-spoonful of flour, previously worked smooth vdth a little of the broth. Let all simmer for two hours, stinnng occasionally to prevent them burning at the bottom and skimming off all fat as it rises. Boil 4 pint of green Peas separately in a little broth. Turn the soup into a tureen, put in the boiled Peas and their cooking-liquor, and serve with a plate of croutons of fried bread. (8) Without Meat.—Trim and cut up two or three small lettuces, two or three onions, and two moderate sized cucumbers; put them in a stewpan with 4oz. of fresh butter, dust over with moderate quantities of salt and pepper, put the lid on the pan, and stew at the side of a moderate fire. Boil lqt. of Peas in lqt. of water with a small piece of mint. When the Peas are tender, rub them through a fine hair sieve, mix them with their cooking-liquor, and add them to the other ingredients. Add more seasoning PRACTICAL COOKERY. 127 Peas—continued. to the soup if required, turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot. (9) Imitation.—Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in a basin with 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir in gradually 4 pint of milk and one beaten egg. Put a lump of lard in a frying-pan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then pour the batter into the fat through a colander with large holes. The batter will then be like Peas, and should be fried a pale brown. Drain the Peas, put them into a soup-tureen, pour over them 3 or 4 pints of boiling clear soup, and serve. Kedgeree of Green Peas (Indian).—Put 4oz. of fat into a frying-pan, let it boil, put in twelve large onions, cut in slices, and let them brown slightly. Push them on one side of the pan, add about f breakfast-cupful of rice and 1 teacupful of ground wheat, and fry until they have absorbed all the fat; then mix in a few slices of green ginger, some peppercorns, three or four cardamoms, a few cloves, six bay-leaves, six small sticks of cinnamon, and 1 dessert-spoonful of rice. Pour over sufficient water to cover, place a lid on the pan, set it over a slow fire, and cook until all the water is absorbed or evaporated, allowing the lire to gradually lessen in heat. A few minutes before the rice is cooked, add 1 breakfast-cupful of green Peas, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Omelet of Green Peas.—Break twelve eggs into a bowl, adding 4 pint of boiled green Peas, 1 pinch each of salt and pepper, and beat well for four minutes; then make it into an omelet in a saute-pan, as described under Omelets. Pea Shells iBrowning) for Soups. -When shelling Peas, pick out the cleanest and plumpest of the shells and put a layer of them on an iron baking-sheet; place them in a slow oven and brown them, taking great care they do not burn or char. Keep them in a dry place when done. A few of these thrown into broths or soups will improve the flavour and colour them nicely. Puree of Green Peas.—(l) Put some green Peas in a saucepan with a very small quantity of water and boil them till tender, then pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put the puree in a saucepan with a little broth, and stir it over the lire till boiling. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, put in 4 teaspoonful of sugar, salt to taste, and a moderate-sized lump of butter. Cut some slices of bread, shape them into small croutons, and fry them in butter. When lightly browned, drain the croutons, put them in a deep dish, and pour the puree over them. Serve it with a separate dish of boiled rice. (2) Shell and wash the Peas, put them in a saucepan with one onion, a little salt and sugar, and sufficient water to cover them. Boil till the Peas are soft, then drain and press them through a fine hair sieve; put the puree in a stewpan, and mix with it a small quantity of bechamel sauce. Stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Puree of Green Peas for Garnish.—Put the Peas in a saucepan with a few sprigs of mint and parsley, a small onion, and a lump of salt; cover with water, and boil them until tender. Drain the Peas, mb them through a fine hair sieve, moisten with clear stock, bringing them to the con- sistency of a thick puree. Put loz. of butter and 1 tea- spoonful of flour in a stewpan, mix them well over the fire, then stir in the puree of Peas. Stir them over the fire for two or three minutes, and when thoroughly hot again they are ready for serving. Puree of Green-Pea Shells for Soup.—Pick out all the discoloured shells and wash the remainder; put them into a saucepan with water to cover, and boil them until tender. Drain the shells and mb them first through a coarse colander and then through a finer one. The puree can be then flavoured and used either with or without Peas as stock for vegetable soup. Stewed Green Peas.—(1) Blanch 2oz. of streaky bacon, cut it into small squares, and put it in a stewpan with loz. of butter; fry for two or three minutes, then dredge in a small quantity of flour, pour in 4 pint of water, and stir until boiling. Put in the Peas with a small onion,