56 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Kidneys—continued. bacon or ham cut into smaller rounds. Place the slices of bacon or ham over the kidney, then hard-boiled eggs in slices over them, and fasten the slices together with a little warmed butter and the beaten yolk of an egg. Fig. 72. Ox-Kidney Rissoles. Sprinkle over with salt and pepper, cover them well with breadcrumbs, put them hi a saucepan with a little butter, and fry for half-an-hour. Put them on a dish with brown gravy. See Fig. 72. (2) Cut an Ox-kidney, freed of fat and skin, in slices, and sprinkle it over with a sprig of minced parsley and one shallot, grated nutmeg, cayenne, and salt. Put them in a frying-pan, fry for about lialf-an-hour, turning them frequently, and add J pint of rich gravy mixed with 1 wineglassful of wine. Let this boil, and then add the juice of half a lemon and loz. of butter. Garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Ox-Kidney Saute.—(1) Cut a piece of Ox-kidney into halves lengthwise, then cut each piece across into thin slices. Put Jib. of butter into a saute-pan, melt it, then lay in the slices of kidney; season with pepper and salt, and fry them till lightly browned over a quick fire, shaking the pan frequently to ensure equal cooking ; take the slices out of the pan, and place them where they may drain. Put 1J breakfast-cupfuls of French white wine in a saucepan with a sprinkling of salt and pepper, and boil till reduced to one-fourth its original quantity. Put the pieces of kidney back into the sautd-pan, dredge them with Hour, fry them for two or three minutes, then pour in the reduced wine and 1 teacupful each of broth and water, and boil for five minutes. Mix in 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Put the kidney on to a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. (2) Wash some kidneys, cut them into slices, and steep them in cold water for a short time. Drain the kidneys, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, season with pepper and salt, and cook slowly over the fire, shaking the pan occasionally. When cooked, take the slices of kidney up and arrange them on a hot dish : mix 1 tea- spoonful of flour and about 2 teaspoonfuls of walnut ketchup in udth the gravy, stir it over the fire till thick, then pour it over the kidneys; sprinkle a small quantity of finely- chopped parsley over, and serve. (3) Cut a kidney into very thin slices, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry for two or three minutes over a brisk fire. When slightly coloured, dredge the kidney with a small quantity of flour, add a few sliced mushrooms and some chopped sweet herbs, moisten them to height with broth and red wine in equal quantities, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, and cook gently over a slow fire for five minutes. When cooked, put the kidney on a hot dish, pour the cooking-liquor over it, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread, and serve. Ox-Kidney Soup.—Put the stock from a boiled leg of mutton in a saucepan with a bullock’s kidney, and boil until it is about half done. Take out the kidney, and cut it up into small pieces. Add three or four sticks of celery, four turnips, and the same of carrots (all cut up small) to the liquor, and a small bunch of sweet herbs tied in a muslin bag. Put in salt and pepper to taste, 1 table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, and the chopped kidney, and boil slowly for six hours. Take out the bunch of sweet herbs, and serve the remainder in a tureen; or it may be made the day before it is wanted, and warmed before serving. All soups are better served in this way. Ox-Kidneys—continued. Stewed Ox-Kidneys.—(1) Stew some Ox-kidneys in a little salted water until done, put them on a dish, and sprinkle over salt and pepper. Add a small quantity of flour to the liquor to thicken, and a little burnt sugar to colour it, pour it over the kidneys, and serve hot. (2) Wash the kidneys thoroughly, cut them into small thin slices, and dredge over with flour. Put a small sliced onion into a stewpan with a lump of dripping, fry it till beginning to brown, then put in the floured slices of kidney, season with pepper and salt, and cover them with cold water. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for an hour. Mix 1 teaspoonful of flour with just sufficient water to make it smooth, add a few drops of mushroom ketchup, then stir it in with the kidney, and continue stirring over the fire till the flour is cooked and the gravy thickened. Pour the stew into a hot dish, garnish with some croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, sprinkle about 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley ouer, and serve. (3) Remove all the fat from two large kidneys, cut them into slices, put them into slightly-salted water for half-an- hour, drain them, put them into a saucepan with ]J pints of water, and boil slowly for two hours or until they are tender. When they have been cooking for an-hour-and- a-half, season with 1 pinch each of grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and add a small minced onion. When done, pour in 1 wineglassful of Madeira wine, make this hot, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Ox-Liver.—In consistency this is much firmer and coarser than pig’s, lamb’s, calf’s, or sheep’s liver, being perforated by large hard pipes, which render it tough and unpalatable. After removing these pipes and other hard portions, it is possible to make some very tasty dishes of it as follow: Boiled Ox-Liver and Bice.—Put I Jib. of liver into cold water, and let it remain in it for half an-hour to soak the blood out; boil it gently in 3 pints of water together with Jib. of rice, add an onion, a sprig of parsley, and when the liver and rice are nearly cooked add pepper and salt to taste, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and a rasher of bacon cut in pieces. Take the liver out, cut it in slices, and return them to the stew till all are sufficiently done. Serve hot. Fried Ox-Liver with Onions.—Slice some large onions, put them in a deep frying-pan with just sufficient water to cover them, place the lid on the frying-pan, put it on the fire, and let the liver boil till the water has evaporated; then put 1 large table-spoonful of lard in with the onions, and fry them till brown. The liver should have previously been cut in thin slices and put in salted water. Take the onions out and keep them hot. Fry the liver in the same fat, adding more lard if necessary, and sprinkle over pepper and salt. When cooked, place the liver on a hot dish, put a little mound of onions on each piece, sift some cracker or dried breadcrumbs on the topi, and serve. Fried Ox-Liver with Potatoes.—Take 31b. of liver, put it in a saucepan over the fire in one piece, and stew gently for three hours in a very little water; then take it up and put into the liquor 2lb. of potatoes nicely peeled and washed, lib. of cabbage, turnips, or carrots, well washed and prepared, and salt and pepper to taste. When the vegetables are almost done, take them up, and break them into pieces about the size of a walnut. Cut the liver into rather thin slices, and fry it and the vegetables in hot dripping. When the liver and vegetables are fried, put them on a hot dish, thicken the liquor in the frying-pan with a small quantity of flour,• and pour it boiling hot over the liver and vegetables. Ox-Liver Gravy.—Drain the liver well by hanging it for some time, then rub it over with salt and leave it on a plate for twenty-four hours. Drain the liver again till all the moisture has dripped out, then keep it hi a dry place till ready to use. It makes an excellent gravy for cutlets and all made dishes. Ox-Marrow.—The fatty contents of the long bones of the Ox are esteemed a great delicacy. At one time