164 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Utensils, Sauces, <5cc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pickles—continued. them stand for three days. On the fourth morning, drain off the brine, pour boiling water over them without any salt, and let them stand. The fifth morning drain the water off, anil cover them with boiling water again, adding a lump of alum about the size of a walnut. Drain them again on the sixth morning, again pour over them suffi- cient boiling water to cover them, and add a smaller lump of alum than on the preceding day. The seventh morning pour off the water, drain the Pickles well, dry them, and put them into jars. Prepare sufficient cider vinegar to cover the Pickle, adding to each quart 2oz. of sugar, 2 drachms each of cloves, black pepper, and stick cinnamon. Put the vinegar and spices over the fire, and when it boils pour it boiling hot over the Pickles in the jar. Put on the top of the Pickles in each jar three onions, three cloves of garlic, and a good-sized horseradish, before pour- ing in the boiling vinegar. Let the Pickles stand in a warm place for three days, stirring occasionally from the bottom. Honolulu Pickle.—Put 4lb. of sugar into a pan with 4 pints of vinegar, 1 table spoonful each of cloves and cinnamon, and boil them; then put in as many melons as the vinegar will cover, and boil them for fifteen minutes. Put the melons in jars, pour the vinegar over them, and leave till the next day. Strain the vinegar off the melons, boil it up again, and pour it over the melons. Boil the vinegar every day till the melons are done. After the last boiling leave the Pickles till cold, then cover the jars with stout paper, tie them down, anil pack away in a dry store cupboard for use. Indian Pickle.—(1) Cut a small white-hearted cabbage in fine shreds or thin slices; slice a few turnips, carrots, and onions ; tear a small cauliflower into small branches ; throw them all into boiling brine, and let them remain in it two minute's, not longer : then drain them well in a colander, and place them in a warm place till they shrivel. Put lgall. of vinegar over the fire, together with 2oz. of mustard flour, blended smooth in a little of the vinegar anil stirred smoothly into the whole, 4oz. of horseradish, 2oz. each of whole ginger and long pepper, and a few shallots. Put the shrivelled vegetables into a stone jar, and pour the spiced vinegar boiling hot over them. (2) Add to lgall. of the best white wine vinegar l|oz. each of salt and bruised ginger, |oz. of cloves, Joz. each of white pepper, long pepper, black pepper, and mace, and 1 drachm of cayenne. Put the vinegar at the side of the fire, and let the spice steep in it for two or three days; then put it over the fire, and when nearly boiling add to it Jib. of mustard and loz. of turmeric blended quite smooth with a small quantity of cold vinegar. Put this Pickle into a jar, and add to it from time to time as they come into season garlic, capsicum, nasturtium, horseradish, green-peaches, young hard apples, half-grown shallots, white turnip radishes, small onions, French beans, gherkins, very small carrots, and cauliflowers or broccoli pulled into small pieces. Take care to dry thevegetables thoroughly before adding them to the Pickle, and keep the jar closely tied down. Mixed Pickles.—(1) Mix in equal quantities some small cucumbers, sliced green tomatoes, cauliflower picked into small flowerets, and small button onions.. Put them in a large vessel, cover them with strongly-salted water, and let them steep for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time, drain the brine off the Pickles, scald it, and dissolve in it a piece of alum the size of a nutmeg. Pour the boil- ing brine over the Pickles. When cold, strain the brine off, and prepare as many quarts of vinegar as there are quarts of brine. To each quart of vinegar allow 1 break- fast-cupful of brown sugar, 1 teacupful of flour, and Jib. of ground mustard. Boil the sugar and vinegar. Mix the flour and mustard smoothly with a very little water, then stir the boiling vinegar gradually into it. When quite smooth, pour it over the Pickles. When cold, tie the jar over with stout paper. (2) Procure in equal quantities, gherkins, the smallest vegetable-marrows, the same of melons, water-melons, and pumpkins, also half the quantity more of button onions. Scald them, drain them, prick them in several places with a wooden needle, and put all together in a stone jar; pour For details respecting Culinary Processes, Pickles—continued. in sufficient of the best white vinegar to cover them, put a plate over the top, and leave them for nearly three weeks. At the end of that time they will be fit for use. If kept for any length of time, the vinegar should be changed every four or five days. (3) Cut 3qts. of cucumbers into slices, separate the branches of three cauliflowers, and peel 3 pints of small onions. Put the vegetables into a large vessel, and pour over them sufficient water to cover, putting in 4 table-spoonfuls of salt for lgall. of water. Let the vegetables steep all night, and on the following morning put them with the water into a lined pan, and heat them gently over the fire. When very hot, but not quite boiling, drain the Wider off, and let the vegetables stand until cool. Mix in 3qts. of vinegar, l|oz. each of curry-powder, turmeric, and ground ginger, 3oz. of mustard, 1| teaspoonfuls of cayenne pepper, and a scant teacupful of salad-oil. Place this mixture over the fire until on the point of boiling. Put the Pickles in large glass jars or bottles, and pour the vinegar over them. When quite cold, cover the jars with parchment and tie them down. Mustard Pickles.—This name is given to a variety of Pickles containing mustard; several receipts of this kind will be found amongst those here given. Piccalilli.—(1) Bruise Jib. of mustard seed, put it into a saucepan with 3 pints of vinegar, and boil it, then move it from the fire and let it get cold. Cut Jib. of ginger into slices, separate Jib. of garlic into cloves, put them into a jar with |oz. each of turmeric and whole pepper, and a small quantity of saffron. Strain the vinegar, boil it up again, and pour it while boiling over the contents of the jar; then cover the jar close, and leave it until the vinegar is cold. Prepare whatever vegetables may have been selected for the Pickle, wash them well, rub them over with salt, and dry them in the sun for a day or two. When ready, put the vegetables in the vinegar, cover and tie the jar over with parchment, and put it in a dry store cupboard. In about six months the Pickle will be ready for use. (2) Cut 1| pecks of green tomatoes into slices, with one dozen moderate sized onions, and six green peppers; lay them on a deep dish, strew over them 1| breakfast-cupfuls of salt, and leave them all night. On the following morning put them on a sieve to drain as much as possible, then put them into an enamelled saucepan with fib. of moist sugar, a heaped table-spoonful each of cloves, turmeric, peppercorns, and allspice, and sufficient cold vinegar to cover them. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmering for about one hour. Put the Pickle into jars and let it get cold, then cover with stout paper, tie them down, and put them away in a dry store-cupboanl. (3) Prepare one dozen large green tomatoes, one dozen good-sized light-coloured cucumbers, one dozen onions, one dozen large green bell peppers, and a head of white cabbage, firm and solid. Scrape out the seeds from the peppers, cucumbers, and tomatoes, and then cut tomatoes, cucum- bers, onions, peppers, and cabbage into square pieces, as nearly as possible of an equal size. Place them over the fire, cover with a weak brine, and cook gently until they look clear and are just tender without being soft. Take them from the fire, strain the water off, and drain. Put over the fire sufficient cider vinegar to cover the Pickles, put into it loz. of mace, one dozen cloves, 2oz. of stick cinnamon, 2 table-spoonfuls of mustard blended with 2 table-spoonfuls of light coloured liquid turmeric, cayenne pepper to taste, and sufficient loaf sugar to temper the acid of the vinegar, and let it boil up well. Have the Pickles well mixed and in the jars, and pour this over them. In a few days this Pickle will be ready for use. A dozen fresh juicy peaches boiled in the vinegar with the spices improves the flavour. Spanish Pickle.—Cut or pull in pieces the flower of a small head of cauliflower, and cut in pieces, about lin. lone, eighteen large white cucumbers. If the cucumbers are°'fresh, let them steep in weak brine for twenty-four hours; but if they have been kept in brine, soak them