999 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads• Mutton—continued. (3) Trim off the fat from the top and flaps of a saddle of Mutton, and chop off the tail. Put Jgall. of port or other red wine into a saucepan with 1 pint of vinegar, two carrots, three or four onions, eight or nine turnips, and three shallots, all exit very fine; add ten cloves and three hay-leaves and boil over a clear fire. Pour the port wine liquor over the meat and let it soak for five or six days, turning it frequently. Take it out, drain, cover it over with a piece of well-buttered paper, and roast for about three hours in front of a clear fire. When done, take off the paper, dish up, and pour over 1 teacupful of the liquor in which it was soaked, well strained and having 2 table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly beaten and mixed in. Serve very hot. Saddle of Mutton en Surprise.—Scoop out the meat from a cold saddle of Mutton, cutting it close to the bone, and leaving an outside thickness of about 1 fin. wide. Mince the meat finely with a little of the fat, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onions fried in a little butter for a minute ; dust over 1 table-spoonful of flour and 1 salt- spoonful each of salt and pepper, and add one bay-leaf and a little cayenne. Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of broth into a saucepan, stir in the meat mixture, cook gently for ten minutes, and add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Work two pounds of boiled potatoes into a stiff paste in a basin, roll out, and form into an edging round the saddle of Mutton, filling the cavity scooped out of the joint with the meat mixture. Brash all over with egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and brown in a quick oven on a baking-sheet for a few minutes. Take it out, and serve on a dish with Spanish sauce poured round. Saddle of Mutton in German Style.—Select a saddle of Mutton without ribs, take off all the skin and fat, but re-cover the tun fillets. Cut the skirt part square, fold it underneath, and tie round; lard the two loins with strips of fat bacon, sprinkle over with salt, and either roast in Fig. 1237. Saddle of Mutton in German Style. the oven or on a spit in front of a clear fire, basting frequently. When done, remove the string, dish up with a garnish of potato croquettes piled in small heaps (see Fig. 1237), and serve with some good gravy in a sauceboat. Sausartees or Sasatijs (A Cape Dish).—Cut the best part of a leg of Mutton into small squares; peel and chop three or four large onions, put them into a flat stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until tender. Mix the onions with 1 table-spoonful of the best curry powder, and 1 breakfast-cupful of tamarind water, or, failing that, the same quantity of vinegar ; put the meat into this, stir up well, and let it stand all night. Thread the meat on very thin wooden skewers, alternating the fat and lean, and grill on a gridiron over a clear but not too fierce fire. Put the flavouring mixture into a small saucepan and make it very hot. When the meat is cooked, lay it, still on the skewers, on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, garnish with plain boiled rice, and serve. Scotch Mutton Broth.—Put 41b. of Mutton into a sauce- pan with two carrots, one turnip, and one onion all chopped small and well washed; add \ peck of green peas, a little parsley, 8oz. of pearl barley, and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper. Pour over about 5qts. of water, put the pan over the fire, and boil the contents, skimming fre- quently ; or the meat may be put in first and boiled, and skimmed until no more scum rises: then the vegetables can be added, and boiled until done. Strain the broth into a soup-tureen, and serve. Oatmeal may be substituted for the pearl barley. Mutton—continued. Scotch Soup.—Take 51b. or 61b. of the scrag end of a neck of Mutton, chop the bones, and put it in a saucepan over the fire with Jib. of barley and 5qts. of cold water. Bring slowly to the boil, and simmer for half-an-hour. Add three turnips, two leeks, and a carrot all cut small, a small stick of celery, a little pepper and salt, and J pint of dried green peas, and let all simmer together for two-hours-and-a-half or three hours. The peas should be steeped in cold soft water the whole of the previous night, and the soup should be carefully and constantly skimmed all the time it is boiling. Serve the meat on a dish with a few boiled turnips, and the soup in a tureen. Scrag of Mutton a la Russe.—Put ljlb. of scrag of Mutton into a saucepan with lqt. of water, a turnip, two onions, one carrot, and a little salt and pepper, and boil gently for three hours or so. When done and perfectly tender so that the bones can' be easily removed, brush it over with egg, and cover with a mixture of breadcrumbs, flour, finely-minced parsley, salt, and pepper. Put it in a baking-dish in a Dutch oven, baste it frequently with a little butter, and when quite done put it on a dish, and pour round good gravy or brown caper sauce. Scrag of Mutton ii, la St. Menehould. -Select the narrow part of a neck of Mutton, having the two scrags united. Put it iuto a bowl of water, leave it for a day or so, then drain, and hang it up in a cool place for two days. Next put it into a stewpan with slices of fat bacon both under and over it, add also about 21b. of scrag of veal, three large carrots and onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, two or three bay-leaves, 1 table-spoonful of peppercorns, and sufficient beef broth to cover. Set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently for four hours. Strain off the liquor, cover the meat with well-seasoned bread- crumbs and brown them with a salamander; reduce the gravy, pour it round the Mutton on a dish, and serve with tomato sauce, or with stewed spinach or endive round the dish for garnish. Shoulder of Mutton with Mushroom Puree.--Bono the Mutton with the exception of the shank, which should be left in, lard it with strips of bacon that have been seasoned with pepper and salt, and tie it up to a round shape, but do not roll it. Put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and place it over the fire until nicely browned, turning it occasionally. Next put in with it three or four moderate- sized onions, two carrots, and a clove of garlic; moisten Fig. 1238. Shoulder of Mutton with Mushroom Puree. with water, and let it simmer gently for five hours. At the end of that time, skim the sauce well, boil it until reduced, and glaze the Mutton. Place it on a hot dish, and serve with a puree of mushrooms underneath. See Fig. 1238. Spiced Shoulder of Mutton. -Bone a shoulder of Mutton, and rub it well with a mixture of 2oz. of sugar, 1 tea- spoonful each of ground mace and pepper, 1 saltspoonful of powdered cloves, and 1 pinch of pepper. Continue to do this for a week or so, letting it remain in the pickle ; then roll it up, tie it round with string, and put it into a saucepan with some good beef broth, and stew gently until done. Put it on a dish, add a little piquant sauce to the broth, pour it over, and serve. Squab Pie. (1) Trim off the skin and inside fat from a loin of Mutton and cut it into thin chops; peel and core a few large baking apples, and cut them into slices. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a thin crust, put in a layer of the Mutton, then a layer of apples, and next a layer of onions ; cover these with another layer of meat, and proceed as