TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 974 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. spices, put them in a basin, cover with a cloth, and leave them for a few hours. Turn the basin containing the meat upside down on to a strong baking-dish, place the dish on a trivet over a charcoal fire, and cook the meat for an-hour-and-a-lialf. When the gravy has run out, put in the baking-dish, around the basin, 1| breakfast- cupfuls of well-washed rice, and pour in 1| pints of clear stock broth. When the rice is diy, baste it with more broth till it is tender. When cooked, take the baking-tin off the fire, lift the basin off the meat, pin a paper ruff round the tin, and serve while very hot. Braised Mutton Chops.—(1) Cut the chops off a neck of Mutton without flattening them, and remove a little of the flat bone at the end, also a little of their fat. Put them into a stewpan with the pieces cut off them and the parings of three onions, a bunch of parsley, a few carrots and green onions, a little spice and salt, and 4 or 5 table- spoonfuls of good broth to braise them. When they are quite done take them out, put them on a strainer to drain, and cool. Pass the liquor through a fine sieve, and reduce it to a glaze; place the chops in this and dish in a mirotin way with the onion sauce poured into the centre. (2) Take a piece of neck of Mutton and cut off some chops, making them a little larger than for broiling; pare them and put them into a stewpan where they can lie quite flat. Put one or two onions, a few carrots, a small bunch of parsley, a few green onions, sweet herbs, 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of stock, and a little salt into a stewpan, place it on the fire, and let the ingredients steam until done. Remove the roots, add a little glaze, and put it over a good fire to reduce. When it has become a glaze, put in tlie cutlets and let them settle in it; turn them over, take off the grease, and let them drain. Serve hot. Braised Mutton Cutlets.—Take about 311). of cutlets, trim, and put them into a pan to braise. When done, take them out and put them on a board with a weight on top to keep them in shape while they are getting cold. Trim them again, mask on one side with 6oz. of quenelle force- meat, and then dip them into a mixture of finely-minced tongue and truffles. Place them in a saucepan with 3 gills of brown sauce, cover with buttered paper, and cook very slowly for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a dish, place the cutlets on it, garnish the centre with strips of tongue and gherkin, and the white of egg mixed with them, pour the sauce round, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets with Onions.—Trim the cutlets and lard them with thin strips of ham and fat bacon. Put the trimmings of the ham, bacon, and cutlets into a stew- pan with a sliced onion and carrot and a few sprigs of parsley; season the cutlets with salt and pepper, put them in the stewpan, moisten to height with stock, and cover with a few slices of bacon and a sheet of buttered paper. Put the lid on the stewpan and let the contents simmer at the side of the fire. When the cutlets are tender, take them out, pass their cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into a smaller saucepan, and boil it quickly until thickly reduced. Peel and boil a sufficient quantity of young onions in salted water until tender, then drain them well. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until mixed, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream and nearly 1 breakfast- cupful of milk; stir the sauce until boiling, season to taste with salt and pepper, add the onions, and move it to the side of the fire. Coat the cutlets thickly with the reduced liquor, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the onion sauce in the centre, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets with Onion Sauce.—Trim the cutlets taken from a neck of Mutton, and chop off some of the fiat bone at the ends. Put the trimmings in a stew- pan with one sliced onion, two carrots, a bunch of parsley, and a small bunch of green onions; put in the cutlets, dust them over with salt and pepper and a small quantity of spice, moisten to a third of their height with white stock, and braise them. When nice and tender take the cutlets out of the stewpan, drain well, and lay them on a dish to cool. Strain their cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into a Mutton—continued. small saucepan and boil it until reduced to a glaze. Mask the cutlets on both sides with the glaze, placing them in the saucepan to get hot again; arrange them on a hot dish, and serve with an onion sauce. Braised Mutton Cutlets with Vegetable Puree.—Cut some cutlets off' a neck of Mutton ra tlier thicker than is usual for broiling, trim them neatly, and lay them flat in a stewpan, together with two onions, two or three small carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a small bunch of green onions ; season with salt and pepper, and moisten to about a third of their height with white stock. Braise the cutlets gently at the side of the fire until tender, then take them out, strain the cooking-liquor, and boil it quickly until reduced to a glaze. Turn the cutlets over in the glaze, masking them well, then arrange in a circle on a hot dish; fill the centre with a puree of any kind of vegetables preferred and serve while very hot. The fat should be skimmed off the liquor as much as possible before it is reduced to a glaze. Braised Rumps of Mutton.—Put half a dozen Mutton rumps into a saucepan with a little water and stew them gently for an hour. Take them out, cut in halves, and put them into a small braising-pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy and add 1 wineglassful of Madeira or any other white wine, an onion stuck with six cloves, a little cayenne, and salt. Put the pan over the fire, cover it closely, and co >k until they are quite done and tender. Take out the meat and onions, thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour, and add the juice of half a lemon and 1 table- spoonful of browning. Boil this up until it is perfectly smooth and rather thick, then put in the rumps; boil up again, lay them on a dish, and serve hot with scraped horseradish for garnish, and pour the sauce over the meat. Braised Saddle of Mutton.—(1) Take out the kidneys from a saddle of Mutton, remove the skin covering the fat of both fillets, and cut off the flaps or skirts and roll them up underneath. Tie the meat round with twine and put it into a braising-pan over slices of fat bacon laid at the bottom and add an onion and carrot cut into slices. Sprinkle over salt, pour in 1 pint of broth, and reduce over a clear fire; then pour in water to half its height and braise slowly. When nearly done, take it out, drain it, pass the liquor through a conical sieve, add a little white wine, skim off the fat, put it with the Mutton into a saucepan, and complete the cooking at the entrance of the oven, basting frequently and letting it get a good colour. Take it out when done, put it on a dish, garnish with mashed vegetables, and serve with the strained liquor in a sauceboat. (2) Remove the skin and fat from a saddle of Mutton without ribs, but recovering the two fillets; cut the flaps straight on both sides, take nut the kidney and nearly all the fat, break the backbone at various places, and roll the flap underneath, keeping it in position with string. Put some vegetables cut in slices and a little minced trim- ings of bacon at the bottrm of a braising-pan, put in the meat, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper, and pour in sufficient broth to nearly cover it. Put the pan over a quick fire and cook until it is about three-parts done, then pour in £ pint of white wine, remove the pan to the side of the fire, or put it in the entrance of the oven with hot ashes on the lid, and braise. It must be basted frequently, adding more stock as the liquor evaporates. Skim well, and when the meat is quite done (it will take about three hours or so), take it out, drain on a baking-sheet, remove the string, glaze it, and put it at the entrance of the oven to keep hot. Strain the stock through a fine sieve, add a little brown sauce and a few table-spoonfv.ls of Madeira wine, boil it up, and carefully skim. Take out the two fillets of the saddle, cut them transversely into rather thin slices, and put them back into their places. Put the saddle on a dish, garnish it on both sides with some onion pirree, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Braised Stuffed Leg of Mutton.—Remove the bone from a leg of Mutton, carefully cut out all the meat, leaving the skin° intact; reject the fat and mince the lean together with lib. of fat bacon, and season with chopped parsley