990 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, sfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. liquor and skim off all the fat. Put the pieces of lean meat into a stewpan with | teacupful of curry powder, loz. of butter, and salt and pepper to taste; place the lid on and stand it near the fire until the gravy is drawn from the meat, then pour in the strained liquor from the hones Stew the meat gently until tender ; mix 2 table- spoonfuls of ground rice smoothly with a little cold water, pour it into the soup, and stir it over the fire until boil- ing, then move it to the side and boil gently for half-an- liour. Turn the soup into a so up-tureen and serve it with a dish of plain boiled rice. Mutton Omelet. -Chop the requisite quantity of raw lean Mutton, mix with it a little finely-chopped onion and parsley, season with salt and pepper, put it in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry for a few minutes. Beat a sufii- cient quantity of eggs with a fork, then add the mince- meat and heat them well together. Put a rather large lump of fresh butter in a frying-pan, place it over the fire until hot, then pour in the omelet mixture and fry it until lightly browned on both sides, stirring at the same time until nicely set. liaise the pan and slip the omelet to the side to give it an elongated shape. When cooked, turn it on to a hot dish covered with an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Mutton Pie.--(l) Large.—Cut up the required quantity of lean Mutton into small pieces, season well with salt and pepper, put it with the fat into a stewpan, and cook until tender. Let it get cold, then separate the lean from the fat, putting the former into a dish ; pour over a gravy made from the bones, added to the fat from the cooked meat, and 1 wineglassful of port wine. Now add a few button- mushrooms and a little minced shallot, cover over with a crust, and bake. (2) Take 31b. of loin or neck of Mutton chops and trim the fat from them. Mix together salt, white pepper, powdered allspice, and a little powdered mace, and rub this seasoning well into the chops, l’ut them into a saucepan with a little chopped shallot or onion and a few pickled mushrooms, add 2oz. of butter, put the lid on the sauce- pan, set it beside the lire, and let the meat simmer or stew gently in its own steam till it begins to shrink ; then take it from the lire, and when cold put it into a pie-dish or into a raised crust. If the meat is put into a pie-dish add slices of hard-boiled eggs, two or three forcemeat balls, and a little more seasoning and gravy; but if it is put in a raised crust add forcemeat balls, slices of hard-boiled eggs, and more seasoning, but do not add gravy till the pic is baked ; it can then be put in through a hole made in the paste for the purpose and covered with an ornament made of the paste. If made in a pie-dish the pie may either he covered with short-crust or puff paste. (3) Cut into fdlets or small pieces the meat from three or four necks of Mutton, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Put Alb. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and add to it 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley, a head of shallot, and 4 table spoonfuls each of chopped mushrooms and till I lies.; cook them for a few minutes, and let them cool. Line a dish with paste, dip the fillets of Mutton into the butter and cooked line herbs, place them in the centre of the dish, filling up the cavities with lamb or other forcemeat mixed up with mushrooms and truffles, pour over the butter in which the vegetables were cooked, cover the pie with more paste, put it into a quick oven, and bake for about an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out when done, and serve cold. (4) Take a loin of Mutton, strip off all the meat with- out dividing it, cut it into thin slices, and sprinkle them over with salt and pepper. Put a small layer of puff paste round the edge of a pie-dish, place a layer of the Mutton at the bottom, then a layer of forcemeat, then another layer of Mutton, with four halves of kidneys put at equal distance from one another, and pour in some gravy made from the bones and well skimmed of fat. Damp the edge of the paste, cover the dish with a crust Ain. in thickness, ornament it according to taste, make a hole in the top for the steam to escape, and bake in a moderate oven for from an-hour-and-a-half to two hours. When done, take it out, and serve. Mutton—continued. (5) Cut slices £in. thick from some cold cooked roasted or boiled Mutton, and put them in a pie-dish; cover with a layer of boiled onions, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and pour in a little gravy to cover the meat. Fill up the dish with mashed boiled potatoes, smoothing it over with a knife, put it in an oven, and bake for forty-five minutes or so. When done, take it out, and serve very hot. (6) Peel 21h. of potatoes, put them in boiling water for five minutes, then drain them; cut three of the potatoes into halves, and the remainder into slices. Trim off the fat and skin from about 21b. of Mutton, cut the lean into small pieces, roll them in flour, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Cover the bottom of a pie-dish with a layer of the potatoes, dust a small quantity of salt over them, then put in a layer of the meat. Continue in this way until the dish is full, then put the halves of the potatoes on the top, standing them on the cut sides, and brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter. Mix 1 table-spoonful of ketchup in 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, pour it carefully into the dish, and bake in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a- half. If the potatoes seem likely to get too dry on the top, baste them occasionally with warmed butter. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve while very hot. (7) Make a good short-paste of flour, butter, and eggs, then divide it into twenty pieces, and roll them out on a floured table fill as thin as a wafer. Butter the interior of a shallow dome-shaped mould, and lay in carefully half of the pieces of paste like fish scales one over the other, allowing them to reach up to the brim of the mould. Finely chop some raw Mutton and peel and chop three onions; put them into a deep.frying-pan with a lump of butter, season with salt and pepper, and fry them over the fire till beginning to brown. Blanch and peel 2 table-spoon- fuls of sweet almonds and 2 table-spoonfuls of pistachios; put them with the fried mixture, dust it over with powdered cinnamon, and stir till well mixed with a wooden spoon. Fill the mould with the mixture, then cover it with the remaining pieces of paste, moistening between each with warmed butter. Butter a baking-tin and turn it over on to the pie, and then turn back again, so that the mould is, so to speak, upside-down. Bake the pie in a quick oven. When cooked and nicely browned, turn the pie out of the mould on to a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. (8) Select a fat loin of Mutton, let it hang for several days, then beat well with a rolling-pin; next rub it well with 4oz. of sugar, put it in a bowl, and pour over 1 pint each of port wine and vinegar. Leave it in this marinade for five or six days, take it out, wash it well, wipe it with a cloth, season highly with salt, pepper, allspice, and nutmeg, put it in a dish with 12oz. of butter, cover with a thick crust, and bake. The meat must be boned before hanging it up; put these bones into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, also 1 wineglassful of port wine, season with salt and pepper, and boil until all the goodness is extracted. When the pie is done, lift up the crust, pour in the gravy, and serve. % (9) Sift lAlb. of Hour upon a paste board, make a bay in the centre, and put into that four beaten eggs and 1 teaspoonful of salt; work the ingredients till well mixed, then stir in sufficient water to form a soft flexible paste. Knead it well, dipping the hands occasionally in warmed butter. Cut the paste into pieces about the size of a small egg, dust them with wheat-starch, then roll them out with a rolling-pin until as thin as possible. Select a round baking-tin of the same size as the pieces of paste, about 9in. in diameter, butter it, lay in a piece of paste, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in warmed butter, then lay another piece of paste on to that; proceed in this way until half of the pieces of paste are used, brushing butter over the top of every five. Finely chop some Mutton and half the quantity of mushrooms and onions, put them in a frying-pan with butter, and fry till nicely browned. Spread the minced mixture over the paste, then cover it with the remaining pieces of paste, proceeding as before. Cut the pie into four pieces crosswise, baste the top with