THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 27 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. Onion Puree with. Fish.—Chop up four or five large Onions, blanch them, and put them into a saucepan with Jib. of butter ; sprinkle over a little salt, pepper, and sugar, and fiy them till light brown. Work in a handful of flour and moisten with fish broth prepared as follows: Clean a couple of small fish such as tench, cut them in pieces, put them into a saucepan with vegetables cut in slices and a sprig of parsley, sprinkle with a little salt, and pour over 3<jts. of water and h pint of white wine. Boil for about ten minutes, and strain the broth. Put the pan contain- ing the Onions over a clear fire, boil up, remove it to the side of the fire to simmer gently for thirty minutes, then strain the liquor into another saucepan, thicken it with the yolks of three eggs, put in the fillets of the fish, make quite hot, pour all into a soup-tureen, and serve. The skin must be removed from the fish before putting them in. Onion Sauce.—(1) Peel the required number of Onions, and put them in a saucepan of cold water; when the water boils, pour it off and add more boiling water, so as to take the strength out of the Onions. Repeat this two or three times more, and the Onions will be quite mild ; chop them up, but not too small, and mix them with melted butter; or pound the Onions to a pulp, mix them with a little cream sauce, and they are ready. Onion sauce is used generally for roasted or boiled shoulder of mutton, tripe, ducks, or rabbits. (2) Peel some moderate-sized Onions, and partially boil them for a few minutes; drain and chop them, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of sugar, and stew them over a gentle fire until tender but not browned. Dredge with 1 table spoonful of flour, and rub them through a fine wire sieve. Return the Onion pulp to the stewpan, stir in enough milk to make the required quantity of sauce, place it over the fire until boiling, then serve. (3) Peel and finely chop a large Onion, put it into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until lightly browned; pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of water or common stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and add a small quantity of finely-minced parsley. Boil up the sauce, put in a small piece of butter that has been kneaded with flour, and let it simmer at the edge of the fire for two or three minutes. It is then ready for serving. (4) Peel and slice a few large Onions, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and stir over the fire until they are of a light brown. Dust them with flour, poui- over a little beef gravy, season with pepper and salt, reduce this until moderately thick, rub all through a fine sieve, squeeze hi a little lemon-juice, and the sauce is then . ready for use. It is generally served with any kind of roasted meats. (5) Boil loz. of rice in water for ten minutes, then drain it; peel and partially boil a few finely-chopped Onions, put them with the rice into a stewpan, add a large lump of butter, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar. Toss the whole over a gentle fire until the Onions are quite tender but not browned, mix in loz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Put the mixture back in the stewpan,' add gradually sufficient milk or cream to make the sauce, and stir it over the fire until boiling, when it will be ready for serving. Onion Sauce with Bacon.—Cut two or three rashers of streaky bacon into small squares, put them in a stewpan, and fry slowly for a few minutes; then put in 4 table-spoon- fuls of finely-chopped Onions, sift in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir the whole over the fire until the Onions are of a pale golden colour. Moisten the above ingredients with 1 wineglassful each of water and vinegar, season to taste with sal-t and pepper, stir it over the fire, and boil for ten minutes, then serve. Onion Sauce for Boiled Fowl.—Peel and slice 1 pint of Onions, put them in a saucepan over the fire with enough milk to cover, and stew until tender; then beat them to a pulp with a fork, add a seasoning of salt and white pepper, sufficient milk to form a sauce of the consistency of cream, and 1 table-spoonful of butter. Onions—continued. Onion Sauce flavoured with Caraway-seed0-.—Peel and cut into thin slices five or six moderate-sized Onions, put them in a saucepan with 1 pint of clear broth and a few caraway-seeds, and boil until tender. Work loz. of butter in 1 table-spoonful of flour, put it in the sauce, season to taste with salt, stir over the fire, and boil for a few minutes. The sauce is then ready for serving. Onion Sauce with Vinegar.—Peel three good-sized Onions, mince them finely, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter, and fry over a brisk fire until brown. Sift 1 table-spoonful of flour over the Onions, pour in | pint of water, season to taste with salt, pepper, and mustard, and mix in sufficient vinegar to give it the desired acidity. Stir the sauce over the fire and boil until quite smooth. It is then ready for serving. Onion Seasoning. -Peel and chop very fine half a dozen Onions, put them into a saucepan with a very little cold water, and let them stew till quite soft; then rub them, liquor and all, through a hair sieve. It is then fit to season any sauces or made dishes in which Onion flavouring is desirable. Onion Soup.—(1) Mix 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of oatmeal in cold water until it is quite smooth, then pour in gradually 3 pints of the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled, turn all into a stewpan with several peeled and chopped Onions, and cook until of the consistence of cream ; or leave out the oatmeal, substitute wheat-flour, and stir it into the soup while boiling; a few minutes before serving- add the yolks of two or three eggs, removing the pan from the fire before putting them in. (2) Peel a few Onions, chop them very fine, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry gently until they are slightly browned; sprinkle in a little flour, and fry until that is brown also. Pour in some stock or milk and water, with salt and pepper to taste, simmer for a few minutes longer, and serve with small pieces of toast. The flour may be omitted if desired, and rice or vermicelli added and cooked in the soup. (3) Cut half-a-dozen large mild Onions into slices, and put them in a saucepan with a pat of butter, salt, and sugar, and fry them to a light colour. Sprinkle over some flour, and pour in 3 pints of boiling water. Add a bay- leaf, a few sprigs of parsley, and a little more salt, and boil quickly for ten minutes. Put some slices of toasted bread at the bottom of a soup-tureen, sprinkle them over with pepper, thicken the soup with a liaison of the yolks of six eggs, warm it up without letting it boil, add a little butter in bits, take out the parsley and bay-leaf, pour it over, and serve. (4) German.—Peel and chop a sufficient quantity of large Onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and toss them over the fire until well browned. Pour in sufficient water to make the souji, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and boil gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Break four eggs into a soup-tureen, beat them, and pour the soup quickly over them, stirring at the same time. Serve with a plate of sippets of toast. Onion Stuffing- for Fowls.—Put a dozen small Onions into a saucepan of water and boil them, changing the water two or three times. Finely chop a small piece of boiled pickled pork, and mince the Onions. Mix a few finely- chopped sweet herbs with 1 table-spoonful of boiling vinegar, add to this the well-beaten yolk of an egg, then work in the pork and Onions, and the stuffing is ready. It is usually employed for braised fowls. Onion-and-Tomato Salad.—Choose half-a-dozen firm ripe tomatoes of medium size, wipe them with a wet towel, and cut them in slices about Jin. thick; peel a medium- sized Spanish Onion, and slice it very thin. Arrange the