THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 39 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die,, referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. off to stir it, which should be done every day. At the end of that time strain the liquor through a jelly-bag, bottle it, and cork tightly. It is then ready for use. The Orange-peel that was used for the gin makes a capital flavouring for puddings. (2) Peel off as thinly as possible the yellow rinds of twelve Seville Oranges and eight lemons. Put the rinds in a large earthenware jar with 31b. of loaf sugar and lgall. of gin, cover the jar, and let the contents infuse for three months, shaking them thoroughly every day. At the end of that time strain the gin and pour it into bottles. Pack the bottles away in a dry cellar, and in a few months’ time the gin will be ready for drinking, but it is greatly improved if kept for a year or two. (3) Put the peels of six large Tangerine Oranges and six Seville Oranges—both cut oil' very thinly—into a bowl con- taining lgall. of unsweetened gin, and add a piece of sugar together with 20 drops of essential oil of Orange dropped on to it. Let this stand for four days, then strain it into another bowl. In the meantime put 31b. of pounded sugar candy into a sugar boiler (see Culinary Utensils), and pour over 3 pints of water and the juice of a dozen Oranges. Clarify it, add it to the gin, shake it up, and when it has stood for four days pour it into bottles, cork down, and store for use. Orange Granite Ice.—Remove the peels from half-a-dozen or so Oranges, cut them up into quarters, and take out the inner pith and pips. Place them in a basin, pour over 3 pints of syrup at 20deg. (see Syrups), let them remain for a couple of hours, then take them out and put them on a strainer to drain. Pass the syrup through a sieve into the freezer (see Ices), and when frozen to icicles add the drained quarters of Oranges, and cover. Let it remain twenty minutes longer, then serve in glasses or cups. Orange Honey.—Put |lb. of sugar and 2oz. of butter into a saucepan together with the grated rinds and juice of two Oranges, and the juice of two lemons. Stir well over the fire, and when boiling add the yolks of three eggs, the white of one, and a little rose-water; remove the pan to the side of the fire and continue stirring until the mixture has the appearance of melted cheese. It is then done, and may be used for filling tartlets or spread over layers of cake. Orange Jelly.—(1) Dissolve l|oz. of gelatine in £ pint of boiling water, and strain it. Squeeze the juice out of a sufficient number of Oranges to fill three teacups and suffi- cient lemons to fill one teacup ; mix the juices together, strain them, and add them to the dissolved gelatine. Sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and boil the whole for a few minutes. Clarify the jelly with the whites of two eggs and their shells beaten together, and strain it through a jelly-bag. Rinse a mould out with cold water, pour the jelly into it, and leave until set and cold. When ready to serve, turn the jelly on to a fancy dish. (2) Grate the rinds of six Oranges, three sweet and the remainder bitter ; also grate the rinds of two large lemons. Strain the juice of four sweet and four bitter Oranges and three lemons. Put 6oz. of loaf sugar into a saucepan together with H teacupfuls of cold water, the juice and peel, and boil it until very thick. Mix lqt. of clear isinglass jelly in with the above, boil it up again, and strain it. Leave the jelly for a few minutes to settle, then pour it carefully from the sediment at the bottom into a jelly-mould. Leave it in a cool place until quite set, then turn it on to a fancy dish, and serve. (3) Put lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar into a stew- pan with 1 pint of water, and boil it until dissolved; then put in the thinly-pared yellow rinds of four Oranges and two lemons; boil it a few minutes longer, then skim, add the juice of eight Oranges, and boil for twenty minutes. Next mix with the syrup 1 pint of calf's-foot jelly and the juice of a lemon. Peel two or three sweet Oranges, trim oil' all the white pith and skin, core them, cut them into slices, and pick out all the seeds. Pour a layer of the jelly into a mould, and when it has set put in a layer of the Oranges; cover these with a layer of jelly, and proceed as before until the mould is full. Stand it in a cool place until ready to serve. Oranges—continued. (4) Dissolve ljoz. of isinglass in h pint of water, mix with it 1 pint of strained Orange-juice, the rind and juice of one lemon, and fib. of loaf sugar; pour the whole into a sauce- pan, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Strain the jelly through a piece of muslin, rinse a mould out with cold water, pour in the jelly, and set it in a cool place. When set and cold, turn the jelly on to a glass dish, and serve. Orange Julep.—Put 1 wineglassful of Orange cordial into a large glass, mix in a little lime-juice, fill up with ice, arrange on top a little mint and a few slices of Orange, sprinkle over with sugar, and serve with straws. Orange Lemonade.—Rub off some of the peel from three China Oranges and one large lemon on 3oz. of loaf sugar; put it into a jug, squeeze in the juice, and pour in lqt. of boiling water. When quite cold, strain the liquor through a fine sieve and serve it. Orange-and-Lemon Syrup.—Make lqt. of syrup with loaf sugar and water, and let it get cold. Peel the rind thinly off one dozen Oranges and half-a-dozen lemons, put it into a large stone jar, and pour in the syrup. Squeeze the juice out of the Oranges and lemons, mix it with 3 pints of water, and strain it through a silk tammy. Put the strained juice, with 4tlb. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, into a preserving-pan, and boil it until reduced to a syrup; strain the syrup from the peels, mix it with the other syrup, and boil both together for two or three minutes. When cool, pour the syrup into bottles, cork them down tightly, and put them away for use. Orange Liqueur.—(1) Select six perfectly sound Seville Oranges, wipe them over with a damp cloth to remove any impurities, taking great care not to break the peel; lay them in a large stone jar with Mb. of sugar candy, pour over them igall. of the best French brandy, then cover the jar with bladder, and tie down securely. Leave it for two months, shaking the jar well once every week. At the end of that time strain off the liqueur, and bottle it for use. (2) Put the thinly-pared rinds of twelve Seville Oranges and six lemons into a large jar with 31b. of sugar candy that has been pounded, and lgall. of gin. Steep the rinds for four days and nights, stirring every day; at the end of that time, strain the liquor through filtering-paper, bottle it, and cork tightly. Pack the bottles away in a dry cellar. The liqueur will not be ready for use until the expiration of a year. (3) Take four Seville Oranges and stick eight cloves into each; put these Oranges into a jar, and pour over them lgall. of strong spirits. Cover the jar closely, and let it stand for two months, stirring it six or eight times during that period. Clarify and boil 5lb. of sugar to syrup (see Sugar-boiling), and when the Oranges have been in the spirits for two months, filter the spirits through paper, mix the syrup with it, and bottle, being careful to cork well. (4) Put into bottles or jars 21b. of finely-chopped bitter Orange-peel and 4oz. of ground coriander-seeds ; pour in 94qts. of spirits of wine 60deg. over proof, keep the bottles in a warm place, and shake them daily for a month. Pour off the spirits, add to the bottles tRqts. of water, let it remain for a few days, pour it off, pressing out as much as possible, add it to the spirit, together with 4qts. of capillaire and a little yellow colouring to give it a deep colour, filter through flannel, and bottle. Orange Lozenges.—Put loz. of picked gum dragon or prepared gum into a basin with 2oz. of Orange-flower water, let it soak for six or seven hours, and then squeeze it through a cloth on to a marble slab. Work it well with the flat of the hand until it is clear and quite elastic, and add gradually 1 Mb. of icing sugar and 2oz. of Orange sugar. A little blue (see Colourings) should also be added to give it a very white appearance. Dust the slab over with caster sugar, roll the paste out to about Jin. in thickness, stamp it out with a tin cutter in the shape of lozenges, arrange them on a baking-sheet well dusted with caster sugar, and put them in the screen to dry. Place in bottles or tins, and they will keep for a long time.