THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 21 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Omelots—co ntinued. of alemelle was a thin plate (still preserved in the French alumelle) sheathing of a ship.” Roquefort gives the old French alemele—blade of a knife; thus the Omelet was named from its shape, that of a “thin plate, of metal.” Soyer says : “ Where is the man or woman cook but say they know how to make an Omelet, and that to perfection ?” But this is rarely the case. It is related of Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough, that no one could cook a “fraise,” as it was then called, for the great Duke but herself. The great point is, if an iron pan is used it should be very clean and free from damp, which sometimes comes out of the iron when placed on the fire. The best plan is to put it on the fire ] with a little fat, and let it get quite hot, or until the I fat burns; remove it, wipe it clean with a dry cloth, and then you will be able to make the Omelet to perfection. A small round frying-pan not larger than a pudding- plate is best for making an Omelet, and the bottom should be kept moist with butter, which is better than either lard or dripping. The batter should be mixed some hours before being wanted, and then just whisked up again. Many receipts will be found throughout this Encyclopaedia for different kinds of Omelets, savoury and sweet, as well as the following: (1) Beat eight eggs well in a basin with a little water, and season with pepper and salt. Melt a large piece of butter in a frying-pan, pour the beaten eggs in, and stand it at the side, but not on the fire, turning continually. When the edges are done, gather them together, and roll the Omelet over (the middle should be soft); dish up, and serve hot. (2) Beat eight eggs in a basin with a little milk until well frothed, and season with salt and pepper. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in an Omelet-pan, pour in the beaten eggs, and shake the pan while they are being cooked to prevent them sticking. When the Omelet is lightly coloured underneath, turn it quickly, adding a piece more butter, and when done both sides, roll tip and serve. (3) Crack twelve fresh eggs into a bowl, season them with 1 pinch of salt and h pinch of white pepper, and beat them well until the whites and yolks are thoroughly mixed, or for fully four minutes. Heat 2 table-spoonfuis of clarified butter in a small frying-pan on the hot range, and when it crackles pour in the eggs, and stir well with a fork for two minutes, then let it rest for half a minute. Fold it up with the fork—the side nearest the handle first, then the opposite side, so that both sides will meet in the centre of the Omelet, and let it rest for half-a-minute longer. Incline a hot dish with the left hand and the frying-pan with the right at an angle towards each other, then with a rapid turn of the wrist transfer the Omelet by inverting the pan over the centre of the dish, and send to table. The Omelet should be made on a very brisk range, without removing the pan ; and should the pan be very small it will require three minutes’ stirring, and one minute’s rest before and half a minute’s rest after folding. Devonshire Omelet.—Beat the yolks and whites of eight eggs separately till they turn almost white, and mix with the yolks, a little at a time, £ pint of milk and 1 table- spoonful of flour blended with a little milk; add also an ! onion peeled and cut in four, 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, and a few drops of lemon- juice. Then mix hi the whites and beat for five minutes. Cover the bottom of a frying pan with melted fat, and when it boils take the onion out of the Omelet and pour half of it in, holding the pan slanting over the fire. M hen the first Omelet is cooked, lay it on a hot dish, and proceed quickly with the second. roam Omelet.—Beat the yolks of six eggs well, and mix smoothly with them 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot; add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk and the well-whisked whites of two eggs, and season to taste with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Melt about 2oz. of butter in an Omelet-pan, and put the Omelet mixture in it. Omelets—continued. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth together with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and when the Omelet is cooked, pile the frothed eggs on the top of it (see Fig. 20), and serve. Friar’s Omelet.—(1) Peel and core some large apples, cut them into slices, and boil them in a small quantity of water. When soft, stir in 4oz. each of butter and caster sugar, turn all into a pie-dish, and leave till cold. Beat four eggs well, mix them with the apples, and cover the top with stale grated breadcrumb. Bake the Omelet in a good oven, and when nicely browned take it out, sift some caster sugar over, and serve. (2) Beat up four eggs thoroughly, mix with them 1 teacupful of thick cream, and season with a small quantity of salt and a few finely-minced chives. Melt about 2oz. of butter in an Omelet-pan, pour in the eggs, put the lid over with some hot coals on the top, and leave until well risen. When cooked, turn the Omelet on to a hot dish, and serve quickly. German Omelet.—(1) Put 1 teacupful of finely-sifted flour into a basin, and mix in gradually with it the beaten yolks of six eggs and | pint of cream or milk : season with a little salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff foam, then mix them with the above ingredients, pass the whole through a fine hair sieve, and add 1 teaspoonful of chopped chives. Put jib. of butter in an Omelet-pan, make it hot, then pour in half of the batter, spreading it out thinly over the bottom. Prick the Omelet in one or two places with a fork, and as soon as it is set on the one side turn it quickly, pour- ing in some more butter, which has first been melted. When cooked and nicely coloured, roll the Omelet round, and place it on a hot dish. Proceed as before with the remainder of tire batter, and when cooked place it on the dish beside the other, and serve. (2) Put the yolks of two eggs in a basin, together with 1 teaspoonful each of flour and potato-flour and 1 table- spoonful of milk or cream. Beat the ingredients together till well mixed, then pour in gradually 1 teacupful of boiling milk, taking care to keep the mixture smooth. Sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavour with a few drops of extract of vanilla. Beat the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and mix them with the Omelet batter. Lightly rub some plates over with butter, pour the mixture into them, put them in a brisk oven, and bake for about ten minutes or until set. When cooked, mask the Omelets with some preserve, fold them over, place them on a hot dish, and serve. The preserve may be omitted and caster sugar sifted over instead, after folding. Mexican Omelet. —Put 1 pint of veloute sauce into a sauce- pan, place it on a moderate fire, add a piece of lobster butter about the size of an egg, together with twenty-four cooked and skinned shrimps, and season with £ pinch of salt and a very little pepper. Cook for three minutes, stirring lightly, then add half a good-sized, emptied and peeled green pepper, finely hashed; cook for two minutes longer, then let it rest on the corner of the stove. Make an Omelet with twelve eggs, as described for Omelets, (No. 3), fold up the side farthest from the handle of the pan, pour half of the preparation in the centre, fold the other side over, and turn the Omelet on to a hot dish; garnish both sides with the rest of the shrimps, pouring the remainder of the sauce, &c., round the dish, and serve very hot. Omelet Celestine.—Pound six macaroons, put them in a bowl, adding 3 table-spoonfuls of apple jelly and 1 table-