THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 9 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Nouilles, or Nudels—continued. preparation cool. Cut up into 2in. squares, cover the squares with grated Parmesan cheese, dip them into beaten egg and then breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard or other fat, and fry a light brown. Take them out, drain, put them on a napkin folded on a dish, arranging them in the form of a pyramid, and serve. Nouille Croustades.—Put the required quantity of Nouilles into a saucepan of salted water and boil them for about three minutes. Take them out, drain, put into a sauce- pan on the stove, and add a seasoning of pepper and grated nutmeg, a good supply of grated Parmesan cheese, and some butter. Mix all thoroughly, turn the preparation out on to a buttered baking-sheet to about 2in. in thickness, cover with paper, put a slight weight on top, and let it cool. When quite cold cut into shapes with a tin cutter .about 1 Jin. in diameter, dip the pieces first into breadcrumbs, then into egg, and lastly into breadcrumbs again. Make an incision on the top of each with a tin cutter lin. in diameter to form the lid ; fry them in boiling fat, take out, drain, take off the lids, scoop out the insides and they are ready for use. They may be filled with a puree of any kind or with forcemeat, replacing the lids when filled. Nouilles with Lemon Cream.—Sift 6 >z. of flour on to a table or board, make a hole in the centre, and put in it 5 or 6 table-spoonfuls of brandy, a small quantity of salt, 1 table-spoonful of sifted crushed loaf sugar, and the yolks of three eggs. Work this into a smooth paste, give it five turns (the same as for puff paste), roll out very thin, and cut into strips 4in. or 5m. in length and Jin. in width. Fry a small qu uitity of these strips at a time in boiling fat, take them out, drain, and arrange lengthwise in a deep dish. In the meantime put the yolks of six eggs into a saucepan, beat them well, and add gradually 9oz. of finely- crushed loaf sugar. When well incorporated, place the saucepan on the fire, and stir in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, taking care not to let it boil. Add a little lemon- zest, remove the pan from the fire, and as soon as the mixture is of the required consistency pour it through a sieve into a basin to cool. When quite cold pour it over the Nouilles, and serve. Nouilles with Parmesan Cheese.—Put 2 >z. of butter into a saucepan placed on a hot stove, and when melted mix in ljoz. of flour, 1 pinch of salt, a very little cayenne, and 1 teacupful of milk. Work these to a firm paste and add three eggs and 4oz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, take the preparation up in small quantities with a spoon, drop them in the boil- ing water, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Take the Nouilles out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich brown sauce. Nouille Pudding.—Mince a Nouille paste made with four eggs, put it into a saucepan of boiling salted water, and boil for a few minutes. Turn out on to a sieve, drain, Nouilles, or Nudels—continued. few minutes, then add the yolks of seven eggs and the white of one, the thin rind of half a lemon very finely chopped, half a-dozen crushed macaroons, 8oz. of candied citron-peel cut into small squares, a lump of butter, and 2 table spoonfuls of well-whipped cream. Butter a timbale-mould, sprinkle it with sugar, and glaze it; pour the mixture into the mould, put a piece of buttered paper on the top, place it on a baking-sheet in a slack oven, and bake for about forty-five minutes. When done turn the pudding out on to a dish, and serve with almond cream poured over it. See Fig. 9. Nouille Soup.—(1) Well beat up the yolks of four eggs in 2 table-spoonfuls of water and 1 saltspoonful of salt; whip the white of one egg separately, add it to the rest, and sift in gradually, stirring at the same time, a sufficient quantity of finely-sifted flour to make a stiff paste. When quite smooth, lay the paste on a floured table or paste- board, and roll out very thinly. Cut the paste into diamond- shaped pieces, put them on a cloth, and keep them in a warm place until dry. Prepare some nicely-flavoured clear soup, and when it is boiling fast throw in the pieces of paste and boil them for ten or fifteen minutes. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot with a plate of grated Parmesan cheese. (2) Put Jgall. of rich jelly-broth into a saucepan on the fire and keep it boiling. Add a few table-spoonfuls of shred Nouilles cut up into rather small pieces and blanched and drained, let them remain for five minutes, then add a liaison of the yolks of five eggs diluted with cream and the breast of a cooked fowl cut up into small pieces; boil for a few minutes longer, turn the soup into a tureen, and serve. Nouille Turnovers.—Make a soft Nouille paste with one beaten egg, a small quantity of water, J saltspoonful of salt, and a sufficient quantity of flour. When well kneaded divide the paste into pieces about as large as a fowl’s egg and roll them out into thin oval shapes. Finely chop some pears or apples, sweeten to taste with sugar, and flavour moderately with powdered cinnamon ; soak an equal quantity of bread- crumbs in cream, anil when soft mix all together. Put 1 table-spoonful of the mixture on each Nouille and fold them over, pinching the edges well together to completely enclose it. Lay the Nouilles side by side in a stewpan, pour a small quantity of boiling water over, and steam them for Fig. 9. Nouille Pudding. put it back into the saucepan, and mix in 4oz. or 5oz. of crushed loaf sugar and a small quantity of butter. Put the lid on the pan and keep the preparation warm for a an hour. When cooked, drain the Nouilles as dry as pos- sible, place them on a hot dish garnished with a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. See Fig. 10. Timbales of Nouille. (1) Sift 41b. of flour on to a board, sprinkle over it a little salt, make a cavity in the centre, pour in a little water, and add sufficient eggs to form the paste. With the hands gently rub the eggs into the flour, mixing a little at a time, and when the paste is smooth cover it with a basin and let it remain for a couple of minutes. Then cut it into five or six equal parts, roll them out very thin, and let them dry for a few minutes. Flour them slightly to prevent sticking, pack one on top of another, and cut them into shreds; then put them into a saucepan of salted water and parboil. Turn them out on to a sieve to drain, put into another saucepan, sprinkle over a little pepper and grated nutmeg, and mix in 5oz. of butter pulled into small pieces. Arrange them in layers about 2in. thick in a well-buttered saute-pan, place a slight weight on them, and let them cool. Cut them with