TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OE PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Mutton—co ntinued. brown sauce. Let it remain on the fire for a few minutes, add 1 table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, and when it lias dissolved remove it from the fire, pour it over the leg of Mutton, and serve. Minced Mutton.—(1) Remove all the fat, skin, and gristle from some cold cooked Mutton, chop it up very line, and pour over Italian sauce, in the proportion of 1 pint to every pound of meat. Put the saucepan containing this over a clear fire, and warm up thoroughly without boiling. Turn it out on to a dish, and garnish with poached eggs or pieces of fried bread. It should he served very hot. (2) Remove the fat and hard parts from a piece of cooked leg, cut it into slices, and put them into a small saucepan. In the meantime, put a little vinegar in a saucepan with a few peppercorns and cloves and a hunch of sweet herbs, place the pan over the lire, and reduce the liquor quickly to one-third its original hulk, then add 1 teacupful of gravy, boil for two minutes longer, thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, pass it through a fine sieve into the saucepan with the slices of Mutton, warm them thoroughly without boiling, and turn the whole out on to a dish. (3) Trim off all the skin, fat, and gristle from about lib. of cold Mutton, and mince the meat finely; put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir them over the fire until browned; next pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, and add the meat with powdered sweet herbs, salt, and pepper to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs, the strained juice of half a lemon, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of finely- minced parsley. Prepare a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, turn the mince into the centre, anil serve. (4) Cut some slices off a cold roasted leg of Mutton, and mince them finely. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of Hour, and stir them over the fire until mixed and browned ; then put in the mince with about 1 breakfast-cupful of good stock, season with salt and pepper, and let it simmer gently for lifteen minutes, stirring at the same time. Next put in a few sliced pickled gherkins and a lump of butter. When cooked, turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or crofttons of fried bread, and serve. (5) Skin and chop very fine 6oz. of suet; cut lib. of meat from a cold roasted leg of Mutton, mince it very fine, and add it to the chopped suet. Mix with this 1 breakfast-cupful of fine breadcrumbs, one chopped anchovy, the beaten yolks of four eggs, a little pepper and salt, and l pint of port wine; when mixed, put the mixture into a caul of veal, place it in a quick oven, and bake. When done, turn it out of the caul on to a dish, pour brown gravy over, and serve venison sauce with it. (6) Put lib. or more of finely-minced Mutton in a sauce- pan with 4oz. of butter, and stir it over the fire until nicely browned; then put in lib. of well-washed rice, season with salt and pepper, pour in about lqt. of hot water, put the lid on the saucepan, and let the contents simmer until all the moisture is absorbed. Move the sauce- pan to the side of the fire, and leave it for twenty minutes or more with the lid on. Turn the pilau in the shape of a dome on to a hot dish, and serve. (7) Chop fine some slices of lean of a roast leg of Mutton, add 1 breakfast-cupful of sifted breadcrumbs, 1 dessert-spoon- ful of chopped parsley, a small quantity of chopped onion and pepper, and salt to taste; mix all well together and moisten with \ pint of good gravy and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar. Put the mince into a baking-disli, cut loz. of butter up small and scatter it over the top, add a layer of sifted breadcrumbs, stick little bits of butter all over them, and brown in front of the fire or in the oven. Minced Mutton with Egg-Plant Fruit.—Cut about 21b. of raw Mutton into small pieces, and finely mince them. Peel and chop three onions very small, put them in a frying-pan with 2oz. of butter, and fry for a few minutes ; then put in the minced meat, season with salt, and con- tinue the frying until the mixture is nicely browned, stirring it occasionally. When almost done, add 2 table- Mutton—continued. spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley. Slice four egg-plant fruit lengthwise, dust salt over them, and leave them for ten minutes, or until the bitter juice is extiacted, then put a layer of them at the bottom of a stewpan; next put in a layer of the mince, then a layer of egg-plant fruit, and so on until all are used. Pour in about 2In- break fast-cupfuls of clear broth, put the lid on the saucepan, and place it over the fire till the liquor boils ; then move it to the side and let it simmer till the egg-plant fruit are tender. When cooked, turn the mince over on to a hot dish, being careful not to disturb the order in which it is placed, and serve while very hot. Minced Mutton Patties.—Line some buttered patty pans with thin paste; fill them up with Hour or rice, put them in a moderate oven, and bake. \\ hen done take them out, remove the flour or rice, turn them out of the pans, and fill up with minced cooked lean Mutton ; moisten with a little gravy, warm them up in the oven, and when hot put them on a napkin on a dish and serve with a garnish of parsley. Minced-Mutton Pies (Turkish Style).—Mince finely lib. or 2lb. of raw Mutton, flavour it with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, or any other kind of spice, and if liked with some finely-minced onions. Place a lump of butter in a frying-pan, put in the minced meat when the butter has melted, and fry it. When nicely browned, keep it hot at the side of the fire. Put 21b. of Hour on a table, make a well in the centre, put in a small quantity of salt, then work in gradually sufficient water to make a smooth paste, kneading it well with the hands. Divide the paste into small portions, and roll them out very thin, making them evenly round. Rutter a baking-sheet, lay the pieces of paste on it, and bake them soft over a hot stove; brush half of the pieces over with a paste brush dipped in warm butter, and sprinkle them with egg that has been beaten up together with a small quantity of clear broth; spread the fried minced meat all over these rounds, cover with the remaining pieces of paste, brush them over with Fig. 1226. Minced-Mutton Pies (Turkish Style). warmed butter, sprinkle with more beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven till nicely browned. When done, arrange the pastry on a folded napkin on a hot dish, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 1226), and serve. Minced Mutton with Poached Eggs.—Trim off all the fat and skin from some rather underdone Mutton, mince it finely, put it in a stewpan with some strong clear gravy perfectly free from fat, and season to taste with salt and pepper and a moderate quantity of sweet herbs and spices. Put the mince over a gentle fire, stirring it occasionally until boiling, then move it to the side and stir in loz. of butter that has been kneaded with a small quantity of Hour. Poach the required quantity of eggs in boiling salted water, and trim them neatly. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, lay the eggs on the top, garnish with sippets of toast or small crofttons of fried bread, and serve. Mutton Balls (Turkish).—(1) Trim off the fat and skin from some of the best parts of raw Mutton ; mince the lean finely, mix with it a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, salt, pepper, and onion-juice, work the mixture with the hands until quite smooth, then divide and roll it into small balls. Place 4oz. of fresh butter in a basin,