THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 155 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. skewers, brash them over with egg, (lust with breadcrumbs, plunge them into boiling fat, and fry them a golden colour. Colour 1 pint of bechamel sauce with parsley or spinach juice, and stir in a little minced pickled samphire. Arrange the pieces of Pheasants on a dish, pour round the sauce, arrange a few sprigs of parsley round the top, and garnish until slices of tomato and button mushrooms. Pried Fillets of Pheasants with Quenelles.—Cut out the fillets of six Pheasants, trim them, and put them in a buttered saute-pan until a sheet of buttered paper on the ' top. Trim the minion fillets and fix a small square of truffle at the end of each, put them in a buttered saute - pan, curving them to a crescent shape, and fry them. Prepare some Pheasant forcemeat quenelles, and shape it into pieces the size of olives. Fix a croustade on a dish, arrange the fillets round it, and fill it with the quenelles. Reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of Pheasant, pour some over the fillets, and serve until the remainder in a sauceboat. Pried Fillets of Pheasants with Truffles.—Cut off the fillets of two young but well-liung Pheasants; put them in a saute-pan with some thin slices of truffles, and fry , them in clarified butter. When nicely browned on both , sides, drain the fillets, put them on a sheet of paper on the table, and trim them to the same shape, leaving the truffles to cook a little longer ; put the fillets into the saute- pan again, and give them one or two turns over the fire. Reduce some bechamel sauce with essence of truffles, and Pheasant. Drain the fillets and truffles, arrange , them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Pried Legs of Pheasants Stuffed with Forcemeat.—Bone one dozen legs of Pheasants, but do not remove the shanks. Prepare lib. of forcemeat as for Pheasant A. la Perigueux, mixing with it four chopped truffles. Season the legs, and stuff them with this mixture. Sew them up, put them in a stew- pan with 1 pint of madeira and the same quantity of stock, and stew them till the liquor is reduced one-half; then, take the legs off' the fire, and leave them to cool in the liquor. Untruss the legs, shape them nicely, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat. When nicely browned, fasten a ruffle on each bone (see Fig. 205), put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish- cover on a hot dish, garnish round with fried parsley, and serve. Galantine of Pheasant.—(1) Select a large Pheasant, pluck and draw it, split it down the back and bone it, spread the bird open upon a cloth, and stuff it with a forcemeat composed of tongue, veal fat, truffles, white meat of poultry, and larding bacon, seasoned well with spices. Sew the bird up, bringing it back to its original shape as nearly as possible, wrap it in slices of fat bacon, fasten- ing this on with small skewers, put it in a stewpan, pour over in equal quantities sufficient white wine and broth to cover it, and stew it gently for three hours. Afterwards remove the stewpan from the fire, and leave the bird in the liquor for an hour; then take it out, clarify the liquor and strain it, and leave it until set. Remove the bacon, place the bird on a dish, garnish round with the jelly cut into nice-shaped pieces, and serve. (2) Pluck the bird with the exception of the neck, wings, and tail, which should be left with the plumage on, then bone it carefully. Chop some game flesh, half the quantity of chicken flesh, and an equal quantity of fat bacon; put the chopped meats in a mortar, pound them well, season- ing them, and mixing a third of the quantity of chopped truffles and fat liver with them. Bind the mixture with beaten yolk of egg, and stuff the bird with it. Trass the Pheasant and wrap it in a cloth to a round shape. Put the bones and trimmings of the Pheasant, truffles, and bacon in a saucepan with some good broth, boil it up, then put the bird in, and boil it gently for an-hour-and- Pheasants—continued. a-half. When cooked, drain the galantine, untie it, and wrap it up again, keeping it in a rounded oblong shape, and leave till cooled. Line an oblong-shaped mould with pie-crust, and bake it till a light brown. When the galantine is cold, cut it crosswise and glaze it. Fill the interior of the pie-crust with bread, and turn it over on to a pain-vert fixed on a dish ; then place the Pheasant on it, ornament it with the wings, tail, neck and head, which should be kept upright by means of a bit of wire, fastened on to the crust support. Garnish the base of the crust with a thick string of chopped aspic jelly, and some chicken legs that have been boned and stuffed with galan- tine forcemeat to resemble ducks. Garnish the base of the pain-vert with croutons of aspic jelly, in the centre of each of which is placed a small quantity of chopped jelly. Place the dish on an ornamented stand, and serve it. Hashed Pheasant.—Cut some cold cooked Pheasant into small pieces, and put them in a frying-pan with a little flour and butter, and fry them till lightly browned. Put in a small saucepan 1 breakfast-cupful of water, 1 wine- glassful of port wine, a small quantity of browning, and pepper and salt to taste; when boiling, skim it, stir it over the fire till very thick, then put in the pieces of Pheasant to warm them, but do not boil the sauce again. Arrange the meat on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Minced Pheasant.—Cut the meat off two cooked Pheasants into small slices, removing all skin and tendons, put them in a stewpan and keep them covered. Put the bones, broken up, in another stewpan with 1 teacupful of finely chopped vegetables, half that quantity of trimmings of ham, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and 1 teacupful of white wine and broth, mixed in equal quantities; stew them to make a Pheasant extract. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms and the same quantity of chopped onions into a stewpan and fry them. When the moisture of the mushrooms has evaporated somewhat, sprinkle in a handful of breadcrumbs, and the strained gravy from the bones of the Pheasant; stir them over the fire and then boil it for three or four minutes; put in the pieces of Pheasant, and warm them without boiling. Sprinkle in the mince a little pepper and chopped parsley, and add the strained juice of a lemon and 1 table-spoonful of Harvey sauce. Turn the mince on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Pheasants a, la Bohemienne.—Truss the Pheasants, prepare a forcemeat with chopped truffles, foies gras, mixed herbs, pepper and salt, and stuff the birds with it; then put them in a stewpan with some mirepoix, and 1 wineglass- ful of Madeira, and stew them gently till done. Put the Pheasants on a hot dish, garnish them with stewed truffles, foies gras, cocks’ combs and cocks’ kidneys. Pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve over the birds, and serve. Pheasant a la Diplomate.—Pluck and singe a young Pheasant that has hung long enough to be tender, split the skin of the neck down lengthwise, remove the bone, slightly split the back bone, so as to widen the opening of the stomach, and draw it without making another opening. Bone and skin a large woodcock that lias hung till tender, cut the flesh into squares, and put it in a basin with three or four raw truffles, also cut into squares; sprinkle over them some mixed spices, pepper and salt; pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of madeira, and let them steep for two hours. Put the livers of two fowls in a stewpan with the liver and trail of the woodcock, a little chopped shallot, half the trimmings of the truffles, and a small piece of butter; fry them, season with pepper and salt, and let them cool. Put this fried liver mixture into a mortar, pound them, and pass them through a sieve; mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze and 1 pinch of cayenne. Coat six oval-shaped croutons of fried bread with the preparation. Chop and pound 5oz. of bacon, mix it with the squares of woodcock and truffles, stuff the Pheasant with it, and sew up the skin underneath. Sprinkle a dust of salt over the bird and wrap it up in a square of pig’s caul, tie it round with string, and make it fast to a spit; roast it in front of a clear fire, putting Fig. 205. Fried Leg of Pheasant Stuffed with Forcemeat.