TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 64 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, fauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox- Tails—continued. centre of a dish, place the pieces of tails round, pour the gravy over, and serve hot. Ox-Tail Soup.—(1) Cut the tail into joints, wash the pieces, and fry them in a small quantity of butter; next drain the pieces of tail, put them in a stewpan with a ham- hone, two or three carrots and onions peeled and sliced, a head of celery washed and cut into convenient-sized pieces, a hunch of sweet herbs, a blade of mace, and a few cloves and peppercorns. Cover the contents of the stewpan with water, place it over the lire, and boil and skim until the scum ceases to rise. Then move the stew- pan to the edge of the fire, put the lid on, and let the contents boil very gently until the tail is quite tender. When ready, cut the meat into small pieces; strain and skim the soup, return it to the stewpan, thicken it with flour, and mix with it 1 wineglassful of port wine and 2 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup. Put in the pieces of meat again, and let the soup simmer at the side of the fire for a few minutes longer. Turn the soup into a soup- tureen, and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Cut the Ox-tails into small pieces, and steep them in cold water for several hours. Next drain them, and put them into a, saucepan with 3qts. of rich brown stock. Poil the soup gently for about two hours, then put in 3 heaped breakfast-cupfuls of vegetables, composed of carrots, turnips, and onions all cut into small squares. Keep the soup simmering at the side of the fire until the vege- tables are tender. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve. (3) Put an Ox-tail divided in natural sections into a basin of water, and let it remain for an hour or so. Blanch the sections, drain them, put them in a saucepan, with a layer of minced vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs at the bottom, and pour over 2 wineglassfuls of white wine. Place the pan on the fire, reduce the liquor, then pour in some broth; cover the pan, put hot ashes on the lid, and braise for from four to five hours. Take the pieces of tail out, drain them in a colander, trim them, and put them in another smaller saucepan to keep hot. Add more broth to the liquor, boil it up on a quick fire, strain through a fine sieve, remove the fat, and pour it into a saucepan containing Jgall. of boiling jelly-broth. Put 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of pearl barley into a saucepan with a little of the broth, add it when boiled to the soup, together with a few sliced vegetables also boiled in broth: Boil the soup again for a few minutes, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve with the pieces of tail on a separate dish. (4) Disjoint a couple of Ox-tails and put them into a saucepan, with Hoz. of butter, a head of celery, and two each of onions, turnips, and carrots, all cut up into small pieces; add 4oz. of ham cut into thin slices, five cloves, a large bunch of sweet herbs, and lastly 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Put the pan on the fire, and stir well until there is a thick glaze in the pan and the flavour from the herbs is extracted. Add 3qts. more water, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for from three-hours- and-a-half to four hours, or until the tails are quite cooked and tender, skimming frequently. Take out the pieces of tails, put them on a dish to keep warm, strain the soup into another saucepan, and add a thickening of flour, 1 wineglassful of port wine! the same quantity of ketchup, and a small head of celery boiled and cut into pieces. Return the pieces of tails to the .soup, boil for a few minutes longer, pour it into a soup-tureen, and serve. (5) Separate two Ox-tails into sections, wash them thoroughly, and turn them into a basin of water for an hour to extract the blood. Put them into a large jar with a large onion stuck with three or four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, 6 table-spoonfuls of browning, 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Pour over these 3qts. of water, place the lid on the jar, secur- ing it tightly, put it in a warm oven, and cook for about three hours. Remove all the fat, take out the pieces of tails, and strain the soup through a fine sieve. Have ready a small head of celery boiled and cut into pieces, put the pieces of tails hi a soup-tureen, add the celery to the soup, warm it up, pour it into the tureen, and serve. Ox-Tails —continued. Stewed Ox-Tail.—(1) Divide an Ox-tail into natural sections, blanch them for twenty minutes, and then put them into a basin of water and let them soak for an hour. Take them out, drain them, put them into a saucepan with 5 pints of vegetable broth, and place the pan on the fire; when the liquor boils, skim it, and add Jib. of sliced onions and lib. of carrots turned into cork shapes, two faggots, three or four cloves, and sufficient salt and pepper to taste. Remove the pan to the side of the lire, and simmer gently for from three to four hours, until the tail is cooked. Pour the contents of the saucepan into a colander to drain into another saucepan, take out the pieces of tail, wipe them dry on a cloth, and put them into a Jgall. saucepan. Take the carrots out of the colander, and put them also into another saucepan. Skim off the fat from the liquor, reduce it to half its original quantity, and pour half of it into the saucepan with the carrots and the remainder into the saucepan with the pieces of tail. Warm both the carrots and pieces of tail, arrange the latter on a dish, garnish with the former and ten or twelve glazed onions, pour the gravy over all, and serve. (2) Cut a fresh tail into joints, and steep them in water till all the blood is washed out; blanch them in boiling water, drain, and leave till cool. Line the bottom of a stewpan with some slices of bacon, put in the tail, also a few carrots and onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs; pour in a small quantity of broth, put the lid on, and stew slowly at the side of the fire, with hot ashes on the lid. Peel and blanch some turnips, cut them to a nice shape, put them in a saucepan with some Spanish sauce, season with salt and sugar, and stew gently till tender. When the tail is cooked, drain it well, put it on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, anil serve. Ox-Tongues.—The most valuable part of what is termed offal supplied by the Ox is the tongue. So great is the demand for these that large quantities are imported already pickled, and sometimes cured by smoking, from Mexico, Canada, Australia, and other parts of the world where beef is plentiful; but although the demand for these may be ever so great, they do not in any way come up to those which are pickled and cured in England. Ox-tongues may be served either hot or cold; when served hot it is the custom of cooks to dish the tongue on a bed of rice, or pack it on either side with vegetables to keep it steady whilst being carved; but a Mr. Labaube, for some years chef to the Marquis of Salisbury, has invented what be styles the Cavendish Ox-tongue Holder. It is described as consisting of a plated metal frame, bottomless and flexible. After the root has been trimmed off' square, the tongue is placed in the holder, and two skewers are Fig. 82. Tiie Cavendish Ox-Tongue Holder (Temple and Crook). piassed through it, one lengthwise, the other from side to side, as shown in Fig. 82. A fly-nut screws on to the end of the lateral skewer, and serves to bring the sides of the holder closer together, so that it grips the tongue firmly. Thus secured, the latter can be carved with convenience and comfort; paper frills are not required, and the dish, as a whole, has'a more presentable appearance. The holder adapts itself to tongues of various sizes, and constitutes a noticeable addition to the ornaments of the table. It has been stated that horse-tongues are frequently substituted for Ox-tongues, but we have no reason to credit this, or to believe that any others beyond those taken from the Ox, cow, or neat are ever sold in our markets