TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 964 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. Lay them on a deep dish, strew a moderate quantity of salt over, and let them macerate for several hours, until the juice has well run from them. Next, put them with their juice into a saucepan and boil gently for fifteen minutes; then turn on to a sieve, and drain until cold. Put them again into the saucepan with a blade of mace, a moderate quantity of ginger, cloves, peppercorns, and salt, pour in sufficient strong sour beer to cover, and boil gently until they have shrunk to about half their original size. When cold, put them into wide-mouthed glass bottles and pour the beer over them ; put the stoppers in the bottles, tie parchment over the top, and keep in a dry store-cupboard. (3) Wash well, but do not peel, some small button-Mush- rooms, and drain. For 9qts. of Mushrooms allow 2 table- spoonfuls of finely-powdered mace, 1 table-spoonful of finely-powdered cloves, two or three pieces of garlic, cayenne pepper to taste, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. When the Mushrooms are drained, put them into jars or bottles, sprinkling the spices, well mixed, among them as they are put in, and fill up with boiling vinegar. When cold tie down air-tight, and in a few weeks the pickle will be ready for use. (4) Clean some small button-Mushrooms, and cut off the stalks; put them in a jar, cover with vinegar, and add 1 tea- spoonful of salt, a few white peppercorns, and 1 blade of mace to every pint of Mushrooms. Cover the jars securely, and let the pickle remain for a day or so, when it will be quite ready for use. (5) Procure the requisite quantity of small button-Mush- rooms, and rub off the skin with a piece of flannel dipped in salt; throw them into milk and water, then drain and dry them on a cloth. Boil a sufficient quantity of white vinegar to cover the Mushrooms, adding moderate quan- tities of salt, bruised ginger, mace, cayenne pepper, and nutmeg. Put the Mushrooms into wide-mouthed bottles, pour the boiling vinegar over, and when cold cork the bottles, cover them with bladder, and tie down. Pickled Mushroom Sauce.—Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of brown or Spanish sauce into a saucepan and mix in 1 table-spoonful of Mushroom ketchup, a little butter rolled in flour, salt and pepper to taste, 1 table-spoonful of the liquor from some pickled Mushrooms, and lastly 1 teacupful of pickled Mushrooms. Put the pan on the fire and continue to stir until quite smooth arid thick, when it is ready for use; it is very good poured over roasted fowls. Potted Mushrooms. -Large button-Mushrooms without any brown inside them should be used, and about 2qts. will be sufficient. Peel and remove the fur from the larger ones, put them all into a saucepan with l drachm of powdered mace, 2 drachms of white pepper, and six or eight powdered cloves; place the pan on the fire and shake and toss it until the liquor from the Mushrooms has dried up. Now add 2oz. of butter and cook until the Mushrooms are quite done, then drain off the butter and leave until quite cold. Pack the Mushrooms closely in an earthenware pot, pour some warmed flutter over, cover the pot with white paper, over this pour clarified beef-suet to exclude the air, and set away in a cool diy place until wanted. Preserved Mushrooms.—(1) Select the largest button-Mush- rooms and wash them in vinegar ; lay them on a fine sieve, sprinkle with a small quantity of salt, and leave them to drain. Next place them in a deep dish in a cool oven and in about an hour’s time drain them again. Pour all the juice that ran from them into a lined stewpan, mix with it a blade or two of mace, and boil until reduced to half the original quantity; then move it from the fire and let it get cold. Put the Mushrooms into large earthenware jars, and pour the cold liquor over them. Melt some suet in a stewpan, and pour a layer of it in each jar; when cold and hardened, cover the jars with bladder, tie them down, and keep in a diy store-cupboard. (2) Clean the Mushrooms, cut off the heads, wash them in a basin of clean water, drain, turn, and peel them; put them into a stewpan with loz. of butter, the strained juice of half a lemon, 1 pinch of salt, and 1 teacupful of cold water; set the stewpan over a quick fire and Mushrooms—continued. boil the Mushrooms for five or six minutes, then turn them into a jar, without the liquor, and keep them for use. Peel and finely chop the stalks, put them into the stewpan with 3 table-spoonfuls of the liquor in which the Mushrooms were cooked, and let them boil gently for three or four minutes. Turn the Mushroom-stalks into another jar and use as wanted. Stewed Mushrooms.—(1) Peel and remove the stalks from some large Mushrooms, wash, and cut them into halves. Put 2oz. of butter into a small lined saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and mix them over the fire; stir in gradually about I ?, breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and when boiling and thickened put in the Mushrooms. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of powdered mace, and stew them gently at the side of the fire until tender. When cooked, turn the Mushrooms on to a hot dish, garnish with some small croutons of bread that have been fried a nice brown in butter, and serve. (2) Peel the required quantity of Mushrooms, turn the stalks, put them in a pan with a little butter, and half cook them. Dust them over with pepper and salt, cover with new milk or cream, and stew gently for fifteen minutes longer. Serve hot with sippets of toast placed round the dish for garnish. (3) Thoroughly clean some button-Mushrooms, and cut the largest into halves or quarters ; have ready a basin of cold water made slightly acid with lemon-juice or vinegar, and throw the Mushrooms into it. When all are done, drain and dry them on a cloth. Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, add a small quantity of water, put in the Mush- rooms, season to taste with salt, pepper, and moderate quantities of grated nutmeg and finely-powdered sweet herbs, and stew gently at the side of the fire for ten minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs together- with the juice of a lemon, strain, and stir in with the Mushrooms, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Peel or pare 1 pint of button-Mushrooms, throwing them as they are pared into a basin of water with a little lemon-juice in it. When all are done take them from the water without disturbing the sediment, put them over the fire in a stewpan with a sprinkling of salt, the strained juice of half a lemon, and sufficient fresh butter to stew them. Fit on the lid of the pan, and let the Mushrooms stew slowly till they are tender; they may require nearly half-an-hour. Thicken the butter with 1 teaspoonful of flour mixed smooth with a little cream or milk and flavoured with mace. Serve all together very hot. (5) Pare some Mushrooms and put them into a saucepan with a little milk and water; add a little veal gravy, mace, and salt, and stew them until done. Thicken the liquor with a little cream or the yolks of eggs, and it is ready for use. (6) Melt 2oz. of butter in a saucepan, and put in some Mushrooms (without their stalks or skins) with the rounded side downwards; dust them over with salt and pepper, put the pan on the fire, and let them simmer gently for fifteen minutes or so, according to the thickness. When quite tender, cover them with white sauce and simmer gently for thirty minutes longer. They will then be quite ready for use, and can be either served as a sauce or eaten with fried cr.nitons of bread. Stewed Mushrooms with Cream Sauce.—Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and when it is dissolved mix in the yolks of two eggs lightly beaten, the juice of a lemon, and a little salt and pepper, and stir over the fire until it thickens. Have ready h pint of plain butter sauce, pour it in gradually, stirring all the time. Skin and trim 41b. of Mushrooms, and stew them gently in a saucepan with a little milk or broth. Pour them with their liquor into the sauce and let them remain for a few minutes. Have ready some pieces of toast, spread the Mushroom mixture over them, and serve. The sauce must be of such a con- sistence that it will not inn when put on the pieces of toast, and care must be taken not to let the butter oil or the sauce get lumpy in cooking, or it will be spoilt. Stewed Mushrooms in Cups.—Cut off the stalks of 1 pint of Mushrooms, remove the peel, chop them up small, and