THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 80 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensits, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. (3) Drain off the liquor from |gall. of Oysters, and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling vinegar to get plump without being cooked. Take them out, put them at once into a basin of cold water so that they will not shrink, drain off all the water, and place them in a cool place until wanted. Put the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs into a' mortar, mash them, and add 2 teaspoonfuls each of salt, pepper, and made mustard, and lastly 2 table- spoonfuls of salad-oil, a few drops at a time. When the mixture is quite smooth, add gradually first one well- whipped egg and then 1 gill of vinegar. Chop fine an equal bulk of celery as Oysters, and mix in two pickled cucumbers cut into thin slices and the Oysters. Turn the Oyster mix- ture out on to a dish, pour the salad dressing over, and serve. (4) Put the strained liquor from two dozen Oysters into a basin, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of warmed aspic jelly and the shell and white of an egg beaten up. Turn ail into a saucepan, boil it, and strain it through a flannel jelly-bag. Dip a casserole-mould into cold water, drain it, cover the bottom with the jelly mixture, and pack it in ice. When the jelly is set, place some of the Oysters on the top of it, about lin. or so apart. Cut a beetroot lengthwise into slices, and with a tin cutter cut out some fancy shapes; arrange them in the mould over the Oysters, and continue in this way with layers of jelly, Oysters, and beetroot until the mould is full, taking care to let the jelly set well and firm every time it is added before another lot is poured in. When the jelly is completed, turn it out on to a cold dish, garnish with two or three lettuces, cut in pieces, a little mustard and cress, poui- over 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, mixed with an equal quantity of vinegar, and add salt and pepper to taste. Oyster Sandwiches.—Chop 1 dozen Oysters, and put them in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, a lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and 1 teaspoonful of finely-grated breadcrumb or cracker-dust; season with salt and pepper, stir it over the fire, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Add half the yolk of a raw egg, or if preferred a small quantity of white of egg, and remove the saucepan from the fire. Four the mixture into a mould, leave it till cold and set, then turn it out ; cut it into thin slices, and place them between slices of 1 >read -and - butter. Oyster Sauce.—(1) Open a dozen Oysters, blanch and beard them, reserving their liquor, which strain. Put 3oz. of butter into a lined stewpan with 2oz. of Hour, and mix them well over the fire, then stir in 1 teacupful of the Oyster liquor. When boiling and thickened, cut the Oysters into quarters, and put them in the sauce. Let the sauce simmer gently at the side of the fire for five or ten minutes, when it will be ready for serving. (2) Partially boil the Oysters in their own liquor, then strain and beard them, reserving the liquor. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until mixed, then pour in the Oyster liquor, and stir until boiling. Add as much milk as will be required to make the sauce, also a blade of mace and a bay-leaf tied together, pepper and salt to taste, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Boil the sauce for a few minutes, then put in the Oysters. When they are quite hot remove the mace and bay-leaf, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and serve the sauce. (3) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of fish broth into a saucepan, boil it, pour it over two dozen Oysters to shrink them, then strain it back into the saucepan, and boil again. Skim well and stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour made into a smooth paste with a little water, then add lioz. of butter and lastly the Oysters. When it begins to boil, pour it into a sauceboat and serve very hot. Any stock may be used, but fish stock is best. (4) Open the required quantity of Oysters and boil them up once in their own liquor, then take them out and put into the liquor a blade or two of mace, and some cream and melted-butter sauce; then add the Oysters, let all come to the boil, and continue boiling for nearly a minute. Pick out the mace, and serve the sauce in a small tureen. (5) Open eighteen large Oysters, put them in a saucepan ■with loz. of good butter, and place the pan on the stove. Oysters—continued. Cook for four minutes, remove half the liquid from the pau, and add 1 pint of hot German sauce. Then with the spatula mix all lightly together without letting it boil, and serve. Oyster Sauce for Boiled Turkey.—Put into a saucepan over the fire 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and 2 piled table- spoonfuls of butter, and stir them together until they bubble; then gradually mix in the liquor from lqt. of Oysters and enough broth from the turkey to make a sauce of the con- sistency of cream. Season with salt and white pepper, and let it boil for a moment; put the saucepan containing the sauce into a pan of hot water, and place it on the back of the fire to keep hot until wanted. Put in the Oysters, and let them boil once; in the meantime dish the turkey, pour a little of the Oyster sauce over it, and serve with the remainder of the sauce in a boat. Oyster Sausages.—(1) Scald 1 pint of Oysters until hard, finely mince them, mix in lib. of finely-chopped lean beef (sirloin for preference), add half the quantity of bread- crumbs, season well with pepper, salt, and a small quantity of ground mace, and bind it with beaten yolks of eggs. Divide the mixture into moderate-sized quantities and shape them like sausages. Melt a lump of butter in a flat stew- pan, put in the sausages, and fry them nicely. When cooked, drain the sausages, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Mix together fifty Oysters, Alb. of cold veal or chicken, 2oz. of suet, all chopped line, 6oz. of sifted breadcrumb® the beaten yolk of an egg, and a seasoning of powdered mace, black pepper, and cayenne. Make this paste into balls or rolls like sausages, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in sifted breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling lard. Serve rich brown gravy with them. (3) Put three-dozen-and-a-half Oysters in a basin with their liquor, rinse them well in it, take them out, and mince rather coarsely. Put them into a basin with lOoz. each of breadcrumbs and finely-shred beef-suet, sprinkle over 1 saltspoonful each of salt and pepper, half the quantity of cayenne, 1 teaspoonful of mace, and a little grated nutmeg; add two eggs, work them all together, and put the mixture in a cool place for two or three hours. Take it out in small quantities, roll them into shapes like sausages, sprinkle with flour, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown, or they may lie plunged into boiling water for three minutes; take them out, drain, and when quite cold dip them into beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and broil them. Oysters Sautes.—Beard six dozen Oysters, and sprinkle them with dried breadcrumbs, giving them a coating. Put a small quantity of butter into a frying-pan over the fire, and when it has melted place in the Oysters close together, and fry them quickly to a light brown colour. Cover them u ith a plate, turn the frying-pan upside-down, then return the Oysters from the plate into the frying-pan and fry the other side. This is required to be done quickly and carefully so as not to break the Oysters apart. Put them on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley and quarters of lemon (see Fig. 98). Oyster Souffle.—(1) Prepare a panada as follows: Put lib. of freshly-baked breadcrumbs into a basin of warm water,