THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 101 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Lc., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. butter and sugar, and stir about for a few minutes; then pour in the glaze from the saute-pan, 1 pint of game sauce, and barely J pint of broth. Cook the vegetables till quite tender, then skim the sauce and turn it into the centre of a hot dish on which lias been placed a border of mashed potatoes. Glaze the fillets, arrange them on the potatoes, and serve. Fillets of Partridges with Truffles.—(!) Cut the fillets off the breasts of some Partridges, making four fillets of each breast; trim them to a nice shape, lay them in a thickly- buttered baking-tin, dust them over with salt, and cover with a sheet of buttered paper. Slightly roast the birds from which the fillets have been removed, cut them into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a few trimmings of ham, two or three cloves and peppercorns, a bunch of sweet herbs, two shallots, salt to taste, and a sufficient quantity of clear stock to cover; 1 wineglass- ful of claret may he also added if l.ked. Let the whole boil gently at the side of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half or two hours. At the end of that time put loz. of butter and toz. of flour into a stewpan and mix them over the fire. Skim and strain the liquor from the birds and stir it in gradually with the butter and flour; put in a few button mushrooms and truffles, and boil them gently until cooked. Put the fillets in the oven and bake them until just set. When the truffles and mushrooms are cooked, take them out of the sauce and pile them in the centre of a hot dish; drain the fillets from the butter, arrange them round the truffles, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets off’ four roasted Partridges, trim them, [ put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and warm them. Turn the trimmings and carcases into a mortar, pound them, then mix them with a little stock: put the mixture in a saucepan, stir it over the fire till warm, pass it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the saucepan with 3 table-spoonfuls of stock, and boil it till reduced to half-glaze. Cut the fillets of Partridges into scallops, and put them in the sauce with tlb. of truffles previously cooked in a little butter; warm them, but do not let the sauce boil again. Turn the fillets, &c., on a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Cut the fillets and minion fillets off six Partridges; trim and put the large fillets in one buttered saute-pan and the minion fillets in another; they should all be slightly curved. Put a small piece of tongue on the round end of each minion fillet. Cook the minion fillets in the oven, and fry the large ones. Arrange the large fillets in a circle round a croustade, alternating each one with a thin slice of truffle cut the same shape. Put the minion fillets on the large ones. Fill the croustade with truffles turned to an olive shape, pour some half-glaze over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of supreme sauce. Fried Partridges.—(1) Singe some young Partridges, cut off their claws, and truss them with their legs inward. Cut some breast of bacon into small pieces, and boil them for half-an hour; then drain them, put them in a frying- pan, and fry without browning them. Put the Par- tridges in with the bacon-fat and a lump of butter, and fry them till firm, but keeping them white. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a saucepan, drain the frying-fat into it, and stir it over the fire till mixed, but not coloured ; then pour in gradually some chicken broth. The sauce must be thin, so as to be able to skim it. Flavour the sauce with some mushrooms, a bunch of spring onions, a bunch of thyme and parsley, two bay-leaves, a few cloves, and a small lump of salt and sugar. Put the birds into the sauce with the pieces of bacon and stew them till tender. When cooked, take the birds and pieces of bacon out of the sauce, put them together in a stewpan, and stand this in a bain-marie. Skim the fat off the sauce, boil it till reduced somewhat, then strain it through a fine hair sieve over the birds. Boil some small white onions till tender in stock broth, adding a small lump of sugar. Put some mushrooms in a frying-pan with butter, and fry them without colouring. Place the stewpan containing the Partridges over the fire. Boil the sauce Partridge s—con tinued. up again, move it to the side of the fire, stir in the yolks of four eggs that have been beaten together with a small quantity of cream and lemon juice, and add the mushrooms and onions. Put the Partridges on to a hot dish, pour the sauce, &c., round them, and serve. (2) Clean two Partridges. Cook the livers, chop them, and mix with them 1 pinch of chopped onion and parsley, a little crumb of bread that has been soaked and pressed, and season with salt and pepper. Stuff the Partridges with this, truss them, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry over a quick fire until nicely browned. When done (they will take from fifteen to twenty minutes) sprinkle a little salt over, take them out, drain and untruss them, and put them on a hot dish. Fry a pinch of chopped shallots for a few minutes in the stewpan that the birds were cooked in, then add 2 handfuls of breadcrumbs, and slightly fry them. Stir in gradually 1 teacupful of broth and a little glaze, boil it, then take it off the fire, squeeze Fig. 117. Fkied Pautridues. in the juice of two lemons, add a little pepper and 1 pinch of parsley, pour it over the Partridges, which should have been kept hot, garnish with cooked mushrooms and fried parsley, and serve. See Fig. 117. Fried Partridges a la Portugaise.—Singe and draw some Partridges, cut them into joints, and put them in a frying- pan with a sliced Spanish onion, a clove of garlic, and just sufficient oil to cook them in; fry till nicely browned, then stir in a little thick tomato sauce. Simmer the whole over the fire for a few minutes longer, then turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with stoned olives, if liked, and some crofitons of fried bread, and serve. Galantines of Partridges. -(1) Singe, draw, and bone three Partridges. Prepare some game forcemeat with the flesh from the legs and an equal quantity of ham. Peel four truffles, cut them in dice, and mix them with the forcemeat, seasoning well. Sprinkle pepper and salt inside the Part- ridges, stuff them with the forcemeat, roll them round, and sew them up. Tie each one in a cloth, put them in a sauce- pan of boiling stock, and boil them for an-hour-and-a- quarter. Take the galantines out, and leave them till cold. Trim and cut the galantines into small slices with- out separating them, dip a paste-brush in melted glaze, and brush them over. Embed three galantine-moulds in pounded ice, and pour at the bottom of each a thin layer of clear aspic jelly; when the jelly has set, put a galan- tine in each mould, pour gradually round them some aspic jelly till the moulds are full, then leave them in the ice till the jell}1' has set. Mould some fancy subject in fat, and fix it in the centre of a pain-vert on a dish. When ready to serve, dip the moulds in tepid water, wipe them, and turn the galantines out round the design. Fill some small fancy paper cases with cooked truffles that have been glazed, arrange them round the base of the pain-vert, and serve. (2) Clean and bone three Partridges, stuff them with a salpi9on of tongue and truffles mixed with a little galantine forcemeat, and roll them. Mask the interior of three Partridge galantine-moulds with aspic jelly, decorate each rib with some hard-boiled white of egg and truffles cut in patterns, set the moulds in ice, pour in a layer of aspic jelly Him in thickness, and leave it till set. Trim and glaze the Partridge galantines with game glaze, put one in each mould, and fill them up with aspic jelly. Cover the moulds with a baking-slieet, put some ice on the top, and leave them. Prepare a round rice socle on a dish, mask it well with ravigote butter, turn the galan- tines out of the moulds on to the socle, put some croutons of meat jelly round the base of the socle, and serve.