157 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. cupful of reduced Spanish sauce. Test a small piece of the forcemeat by poaching it in boiling water, and if it is too still’, mix a little more of the sauce with it. Pheasant Forcemeat Cake with Grenadines.—Trim and laid the fillets cut off six Pheasants with thin strips of fat bacon, put them in a buttered saute'pan, sprinkle over with a pinch of salt and pepper, and put a sheet of buttered paper on the top. With some crumb of bread and essence of Pheasant, prepare a panada and put it on a plate to cool. Cut the remaining flesh off the bones of the Pheasant, put them in a mortar with the minion fillets and the fillets of six fowls, and pound them; pass all through a fine hair sieve, then put it in the mortar again, and mix with it an equal quantity of boiled udder, that has been pounded and passed through the sieve, and with this mix half the quantity of the Pheasant-meat and the panada; sprinkle with more salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; pound all together to mix them well, adding three eggs, one at a time, and sufficient reduced (see Reducing) Spanish sauce to make it stiff. Fill a plain oval-buttered border mould, lOin. long and 2^in. wide, with the forcemeat, and poach it in the bain-marie, without boiling. When set, turn the forcemeat out on to a croustade on a dish, glaze it, and arrange the Pheasant fillets, previously cooked and glazed, on the top. Garnish six silver skewers, with cocks’ combs and truffles (see Attelettes), and stick them in the forcemeat. Serve with a sauceboatful of Spanish sauce reduced with an addition of essence of Pheasant. Pheasant in Paste.—Prepare the bird, and put in its inside a small onion and a piece of bacon; then enclose it in a suet crust, and boil or steam it like a beef-steak pudding. Care should be taken to make the paste thick enough not to break when it is taken out of the pot. Place it on a hot dish, cut a circular piece out of the top, through which pour a small quantity of highly seasoned gravy, and serve while very hot. Pheasant Pie.—(1) Cut up a Pheasant and lay the pieces in a pie-dish, putting the breast in the middle; season with salt and pepper, moisten to height with gravy, cover the pie-dish with another dish, and put it in the oven for ten minutes; then dredge the Pheasant with flour, put in two or three hard-boiled eggs, cut into halves, put a few pieces of butter about on the top,- cover the pie with a good crust, and bake it. Make some gravy with the gizzard, neck, &c., of the bird, and season it with a small onion and two or three cloves. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven and strain in the gravy at the top. Serve the pie either hot or cold. A few bones should be boiled with the gravy to make it jelly. (2) Cold.—Take the meat off a young Pheasant, cut it up small, and put it in a basin with six peeled raw truffles; sprinkle with salt and spices, and pour over 1 wineglassful of madeira, and let the pieces macerate in this for one hour. Cut the flesh off two hares’ legs into small pieces, and fry it with the liver of the Pheasant; when done, let it cool, then chop it up with an equal quantity of lean veal or pork and bacon. Put it in a mortar, pound well, season with salt and spices; mix with the pieces of Pheasant and truffles, adding 6oz. of cooked bacon cut in dice. Line a buttered cold-pie mould with short paste, fill it with the Pheasant and forcemeat, in alternate layers, raising them in a dome, and put a round of paste on the top; moisten and pinch the edges together. Cut the paste straight two-thirds of an inch above the rim of the mould, and with paste-pincers pinch this crest on the top as well as on its outside. Roll the parings of the paste out thin, cut it into strips, then cut these into shapes of leaves; lightly brush over the top of the pie with water, arrange the leaves like a rosette upon it, cut four rounds of paste out, each one smaller than the other, and stick them one above the other at the top of the pie, putting the smallest on top, then make an incision right through the top. Brush the pie over with beaten egg, using a paste-brusli, and put it in a moderate oven for a quarter-of-an-hour; then cover it with paper and bake for two hours. With the bones of the Pheasant, together with some trimmings of meat Pheasants—continued. and truffles, a little wine and aspic jelly, prepare a rich gravy; twenty minutes after the pie has been taken out of the oven, pour the gravy in through the hole at the top, and serve when cold. (3) Singe, draw, and clean two Pheasants which have been hanging for about two days to improve their flavour, cut them up into pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and cook them until done. Let them get cold, put them into a pie-dish lined with paste, and mix them up with a few truffles and a little game forcemeat. Cover over with two bay-leaves and slices of very fat bacon, and lastly with more paste, and bake for about an- hour-and-a-half. When done, remove from the oven, take off the slices of bacon and bay-leaves, replace the cover of paste, turn the pie out on to a dish, and serve cold. Pheasant Quenelles with Truffles.—Chop up lib. of cold roasted Pheasant meat, put it into a mortar and pound it, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it lOoz. of panada, prepared with broth and rice-flour and left till cold. Work it well together in the mortar, and pound them for seven or eight minutes longer. Mix in with the forcemeat lOoz. of butter, the yolks of three eggs, and salt and spices to taste; three minutes after, pass it through the sieve into a basin and smooth it with a spoon. Mould some of the forcemeat with two table-spoons into sixteen or eighteen quenelles, then lay them on the buttered bottom of a flat stewpan, and put the lid on. Shape the rest of the forcemeat into a border on an entree-disli, cover it with buttered paper, and cook it in the oven. Poach the quenelles in broth, take them up with a skimmer, drain them, and arrange in circular order on the border of forcemeat; fill the cavity with small round cooked truffles, pour over them a little brown sauce that has been reduced with the trimmings of truffles and ex- tract of Pheasant, and serve with the rest of the sauce in a sauceboat. Pheasant Rissoles.—Chop up fine the white meat of a Pheasant, add to it four or five chopped mushrooms or truffles, a small quantity (about 2 table-spoonfuls) of sifted breadcrumbs, pepper and salt to taste, chopped herbs and lemon-peel, \ teaspoonful of each; mix all to a paste with 1 table-spoonful of milk and a little white broth. Stir it then in a saucepan over the fire for ten minutes. Turn it out of the saucepan, mix well into it a beaten egg, put it in a cool place, and let it stand six hours, when it well be stiff enough to work into balls, or whatever shape the rissoles are to be. When the rissoles are formed, brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling lard or dripping. When taken from the frying-pan, lay them on kitchen paper to drain, arrange them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Pheasant Saute.—Disjoint two young Pheasants, put them in a saute-pan with a piece of butter, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, sprinkle in a small quantity of pepper and salt, and fry them over a moderate fire. When the breasts and fillets are done, take them out and finish cooking the legs. Drain the butter out of the saute-pan, put the fillets and breasts back again, pour over them a little melted glaze, and roll them well in it. Reduce some brown sauce with Pheasant fumet. Prepare a purde of apples, seasoning them with a pinch of salt and a small quantity of sugar. Arrange the pieces of Pheasants in a group on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve with a sauceboatful of the apple puree. Pheasant Saute with Truffles.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Pheasant, divide the breast into two pieces, and cut off the legs and wings. Partially fry the legs in a stewpan with butter, then put in the wings and breasts, a small onion, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, and 1 or 2 pinches of pepper and salt; fry them till nicely browned, then put the lid on the stewpan with hot ashes on it, and finish cooking the contents by the side of the fire. Peel and slice five or six raw truffles, and keep them covered. Cut the back of the Pheasant into small pieces, and put it in a stewpan with the pinions, neck