145 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. VOL. II. L Fears—continued. the Pears are tender. Fry some slices of apple in butter and sugar. Line a buttered mould with puff paste, and bake it. Put a layer of the apples at the bottom of the paste, first turning it out of the mould, and put the Pears on the top. Strain the syrup, .boil it till reduced to 32 deg., and pour it over the tart, which should be served cold. Fear Tartlets.—Roll out ilb. of puff paste, 12in. long by 8in. wide, cut it into six pieces with a cutter, arrange them on six scalloped tart pans, 3iin. wide, and press down the paste at the bottom and sides, so as to have the im- pression of the moulds, but without touching the rim, which will rise considerably when baked. Mask them with 3oz. of apple marmalade, equally divided; on top of this put half a large Pear, dust them over with caster sugar, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes. Bring them to the oven door, dust the edges over lightly with more powdered sugar, melt this in the oven for about two minutes, take them out, and let them cool for twenty minutes. Spread over each a little apple jelly, turn them out carefully on to a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Pear Timbale with Raisins.—Butter a timbale-mould and line it with short-paste. Peel, core, and mince twelve Pears, put them in a preserving-pan with a piece of butter, and cook them over a slow fire till half-done. Put in with the Pears a quarter of a stick of vanilla, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of picked Smyrna raisins previously softened in warm water, 3 table-spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, and a small quantity of caster sugar. When done leave the Pears to cool. Dilute a little apricot marmalade with kirsehenwasser. Fill the lined mould with the Pears, put a flat of the same paste over it, and bake it in a slack oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When done, turn the timbale on a dish, sprinkle over some chopped pistachios, pour over the apricot sauce, and serve. Fear Vinegar.—Select small Pears of an equal size, all of them having the stems on, and peel them thinly and evenly. For every pound of Pears put in a saucepan J pint of vinegar, Goz. of loaf sugar, a stick of cinnamon, and eight or ten cloves. Boil the vinegar mixture for five minutes, then put in the Pears, and let them simmer until tender. The Pears must not be very soft, or they will break. Place them on a sieve until well drained, then put them carefully into jars. Boil the syrup until thickly reduced, leave it until cold, then pour it over the fruit. Fear Water-Ice.—(1) Peel a few ripe Pears and grate them into a kitchen basin; mix with them ilb. of caster sugar, the strained juice of two oranges and one lemon, a little of the peel, and 2 table-spoonfuls of vanilla sugar. Leave it for half-an-hour; then pass the preparation through a fine hair sieve, mix a little cold water with it, and freeze Fig. 194. Pear Water-ices. it in the ice-box. When firm, take the ice up with a large spoon, and pile it like a pyramid on a folded napkin. Put some little fancy cakes round the dish, and serve. (2) Fill some pear-shaped moulds with pear-water ice (No. 1), coloured with infusion of saffron, and pack them in ice and salt until set firm. Turn them out and with a fine camel’s-hair brush ornament them artistically with dry Fears—continued. powrdered carmine on one side, giving them a slight shade. Into the narrow end stick a real pear-stalk with an artificial leaf attached, and into the thick end push a dried currant to give the appearance of the eye of the Pear (see Fig. 194). Put them into the ice-box until wanted, and serve. To prepare these well great care is required. Fickled Fears.—(1) Peel 61b. of Pears, stick 2 cloves in each, put them in a lined preserving-pan, in which 31b. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 pint of vinegar are boiling. Cook the fruit till tender, then turn all into stone jars. AYlien cold, tie them down. (2) Select some sound Pears, not too ripe, peel them, and leave them whole with their stems on. For 81b. of fruit use lqt. of vinegar, 41b. of brown sugar and 1 tea- cupful of mixed whole spices and a stick of cinnamon, cassia buds, allspice, and cloves. Tie the spices in a piece of muslin, and boil them with the vinegar and sugar. When boiling, skim the liquor, put in the Pears, and boil them till tender; then take them out and put them into stone jars. Boil the syrup five minutes longer, then pour it over the fruit. On the following day, strain the syrup off and boil it up again. Perform this operation for three mornings, pouring the syrup over the fruit each time, and keeping the spices in it. Tie the jars down wdien the syrup is cold, and keep them in a dry store cupboard. Preserved Fears.—(1) Pears for preserving should be firm and rather sour ; if they are small, they should he preserved wdiole; if medium-sized, cut into halves; or if very large, into quarters. Peel them with a silver knife, dropping each Pear into a basin of cold water as soon as peeled to keep the colour nice. When the Pears are all peeled, and if necessary cut, weigh them, allowing an equal weight of sugar; put the fruit into a saucepan on the stove with enough cold water to cover it completely, and let it boil gently till soft enough to yield slightly to gentle pressing with the fingers. While the Pears are in the saucepan boiling, put the sugar into a preserving-pan, to each pound of sugar adding 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold water, and to every 5lb. or 61b. of the juice the rind of two thinly-pared lemons, and 2oz. of green ginger-root scraped and scalded; boil the syrup, taking off the scum as it rises. When the fruit is tender, put it into the preserving pan with the syrup, and boil till the Pears look clear; when they are so, and the syrup has penetrated them, take the pan off the fire, let the preserve cool in the syrup, and then put into jars, which cork and fasten in such a way as to be air-tight. (2) Parboil a dozen large Pears; as soon as they are tender, take them out of the saucepan and lay them in a pan of cold water. Peel them, cut them into halves, core them, and put them into a syrup made of 3 pints of water, 2ilb. of loaf sugar, ami a little thinly-pared lemon- peel. Put into this with the Pears a little cochineal, bruised and tied in a muslin bag. Cover the pan, and let the Pears boil quickly in the syrup till they are a good colour and quite tender. (3) Peel one hundred medium-sized ripe Pears carefully, keeping them in their original form, split them into halves, and cut out the cores and seeds. Fill ten jars with them and pour over 5qts. of syrup. Put on the covers very tightly. Place them in a large saucepan, taking care that they do not touch one another, and put a little hay or straw between them. Fill the pan with cold water so as to cover them, and boil for fifteen minutes. Take from off the fire, stand the pan on a table, and with a towel lift up the jars one by one, laying them carefully in a dry but not cool place. Let them stand until cold, and put them away until wanted for use. (4) Peel and core some Pears, cut them in halves or quarters according to the size, and put them for a few minutes in acidulated water to preserve their whiteness. Put the pieces of Pears in syrup (see Syrups), and let them simmer till half-done; then take the pan off the fire, and leave the Pears till next day in the syrup. J>ain, and put the Pears in wide-mouthed bottles. Bon the syrup to the feather degree (sec Sugar boiling), mix For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, icc., referred to, see under their special heads.