TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 136 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. Peaches in Jelly.—(1) Skin the Peaches very carefully so as not to spoil or bruise them, using a silver knife. As they are peeled cut them into halves, lay them in cold water, first taking the stones out. Crack a quarter of the stones and boil the kernels for half-an-hour in just enough water to cover them. When all the Peaches are peeled and stoned, take them out of the water and weigh them, put them into a preserving-pan in layers, with their own weight of sugar sprinkled over the layers, and let them gradually heat until the sugar melts; then put in the water in which the kernels were boiled and let the Peaches gently boil until they become transparent. Carefully lift them out of the syrup and lay them on sieves; let the syrup boil, keeping it well skimmed till a little of it put into a saucer stiffens slightly as it cools; then put the Peaches into jars, and pour the syrup over them when it is slightly cooled. When quite cold cover the jars down so as to be perfectly airtight. (“2) Peel twelve Peaches, cut them in halves, and put them without the stones in a lined saucepan with a little thin syrup, and boil them gently for four or five minutes. Break the stones, peel the kernels, and put them in with the fruit; in about an hour’s time drain the Peaches on a sieve. Squeeze the juice of six lemons into the syrup through a fine strainer, then pass it two or three times through a jelly-bag till very clear; mix some clarified isinglass with it, pour some of it into a plain mould, and stand it in ice. When firm, arrange the Peaches over the jelly, putting the blanched kernels between them, and sticking them together with a little jelly. When stiff', pour in some more jelly gradually; let it set, then fill the mould; leave the Fig. 184. Peaches in Jelly. mould in the ice, which should have been broken and mixed with a little salt. When ready to serve dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the jelly carefully out on to a glass dish (see Fig. 184). Peach Leather.—Allow Jib. of sugar to each pound of stoned Peaches; put sugar and fruit together over the fire, and let them stew together, mashing it smooth as it cooks. When it has cooked tolerably dry, take it from the fire, butter a board well, and spread the stewed Peaches over it in a thin sheet; put it in the sun to dry, and when quite dry roll it up and wrap it in a cloth. It keeps very well from one season to another. Peach-leaves Flavouring (Persica).—Cut about a hundred Peach-leaves, wipe them quite clean, put them into a jar or a large bottle with a wide mouth, and pour over them lqt. of best French brandy. Cork it well and let it stand three weeks; strain it, and add to it an equal quantity of capillaire; bottle and cork it tightly. It makes a nice flavouring for puddings and custards, or may be served as a liqueur. Peach Leche Crema.—Put lqt. of milk over the fire in a double-boiler; when very hot stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour blended with a little cold milk, keep stirring till it begins to thicken, then take it from the fire and stir in loz. of butter. Beat up the yolks of three eggs very light, and when the cornflour is only just warm stir them in, and whisk all together till quite light and smooth. Butter a pudding-dish; peel, halve, and stone some ripe Peaches, strew over them sufficient sugar to sweeten, put them into the buttered dish, pour the custard or crema over, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Beat the Peaches—continued. whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, with enough powdered white sugar to sweeten them. Spread this over the leche crema after it is baked, and return it to the oven for two or three minutes. If served hot, serve sweet sauce with it; if cold, serve cream. Peach Marmalade.—Put some ripe autumn Peaches that have been peeled and stoned in layers in a deep dish, cover them thickly with crushed loaf sugar, and leave them for a day and night. Place the Peaches in a preserving- pan, putting in 1 lb. of sugar for each pound of Peaches. Boil them till thick, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Crack the stones, peel a few of the kernels, boil them in a little thin syrup and mix with the marmalade. When cold, put it in a glass dish, and serve. Peach Meringue.—(1) Peel some ripe Peaches and stew them. When nearly done, mix some sugar and 1 tea- spoonful of butter with them. Butter a deep pie-dish, line it with short-paste, and bake. When done, take the crast out of the oven, put the stewed fruit in it, cover with the whites of three eggs, beaten to a stiff froth and sweetened with 3 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and put it back in the oven and brown lightly. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Boil together 1 breakfast-cupful of granulated sugar and l pint of water. Peel three dozen ripe Peaches, cut them in quarters, then put one-third of them in the boiling syrup, and let them simmer for eight minutes. Take them out and put in another third. Continue this till all the fruit is done. Put the Peaches in a basin and boil the syrup till it becomes thick, then pour it over the Peaches. Put the whites of six eggs in an ice-box and beat the yolks with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Put 1J pints of milk in a double boiler, and when boiling stir in 3 table- spoonfuls of cornflour that has been mixed smooth with J pint of milk, and boil it for five or six minutes, stirring all the time; pour the preparation gradually over the beaten eggs and sugar, then return all to the boiler and stir it over the fire for four minutes longer. Take the preparation off’ the fire and put it away to cool. Pile the Peaches in the centre of a shallow dish. Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, adding gradually 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, pour it over the Peaches, put them in the oven, and bake till lightly browned. Take the pudding out, and leave it till cold. Flavour the cornflour pre- paration with a few drops of essence of almonds, pour it round the Peaches, and serve when cold. Peach Miroton.—Put 1 table-spoonful of butter in a sautd-pan, and when melted lay in lib. of tinned Peaches that have been previously drained of their syrup, and steeped for an hour in brandy. As the Peaches get warm, dust caster sugar over them freely. When they are soft remove the pan from the fire, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the Peaches, stir them gently with a wooden or silver spoon, pile them in a glass dish, and pour 1 wine- glassful of madeira wine over. A little red-currant jelly makes an appropriate garnish. Peach Paste.—Peel and stone some ripe Peaches, cut them into little pieces, and put them in a preserving pan with a very small quantity of water. Boil and stir them till reduced. Weigh the pulp, and for every pound use Jib. of loaf sugar: clarify it and boil it to the feather [see Sugar- BOILING), then stir the pulp in with it, and keep it over the fire for a short time. Dry the paste in any shape required. Peach-Paste Drops.—Put lib. of thick Peach pulp in a pre- serving-pan with lib. of preserving sugar, a few drops of oil of almond (see Almond), and enough prepared cochineal to give it a light pink colour. Stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until reduced to a stiff paste. Lay the preparation out in drops on sheets of polished tin, using a spouted sugar-boiler for the purpose. Put the sheets of tin in a screen of moderate heat to dry the drops. In an hour’s time move the drops from the tins with the aid of a sharp-pointed knife, pack them in boxes between sheets of paper, and keep them in a cool dry place. Peaph Pickle (Souk).—Take ljgalls. of freshly-gathered Peaches not quite ripe, but still pretty hard. Lay them