160 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, .ces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. top with a tastefully arranged mixture of cocks’ combs, truffles, and button mushrooms; set also round the fronts of the Pheasants from one row of timbales to the other a ring of neatly turned truffles. On the top of the crouton, supported neatly between the legs of the Pheasants, set a gilt paste or metal crown filled in its centre with the truffle, mushroom, and cock’s comb mixture (see Fig. 209). Some cooks prefer to garnish with crown atelettes, decorated with truffles, cocks’ combs, and mushrooms, or in any other way that may be selected or convenient. Salmis of Pheasant.—(1) Cut off the flesh of a cold roast Pheasant, remove the skin, and trim each piece nicely; put the bones and trimmings in a stewpan with two shallots, a clove of garlic, a laurel-leaf, the grated rind of half a lemon, and a small piece of meat glaze ; moisten with 1 pint of white wine and 1 table-spoonful of rich gravy. Stew the whole gently until the sauce has suffi- ciently reduced, then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Return it to the saucepan, put in the pieces of Pheasant flesh, and make them hot without boiling the sauce again. Arrange the meat on a hot dish, squeeze the juice of an orange into the sauce, pour it round the meat, garnish with sippets of toast or cro ft tons of bread that have been fried brown in butter, and serve while very hot. (2) Cut up a cold roasted Pheasant, put it into a stew- pan with 3 table-spoonfuls of Italian olive-oil, 2 wine- glassfuls of wine, the juice and grated peel of half a lemon, and salt and pepper to taste, and stir the whole over the fire until hot but not boiling. Arrange the meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, garnish with sippets of toast or crofttons of fried bread, and serve. (3) Prepare a rich game sauce, thickening it well with glaze and game jelly. Carve nicely a cold roasted Pheasant, dip the pieces into the sauce, giving them a good coating, and lay each piece as it is done on a dish, pouring what is left of the sauce round them. Leave until the sauce has got cold and jellied, then garnish with crofttons of aspic jelly, and serve. (4) Wrap some thin slices of fat bacon round a trussed Pheasant (see Barding), and put it in a stewpan with the neck and gizzard, some trimmings of ham and scraped bacon; fry it for fifteen minutes over a slow fire, then put in a bunch of sweet herbs, some trimmings of truffles, and 1 wineglassful of white wine. When it boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire. Fry the liver of the Pheasant and a few poultry livers in butter, season them, and leave them to cool; then put the livers in a mortar, and pound them with a piece of butter. Moisten the liver paste with a little game sauce, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. When the Pheasant is cooked, drain and un- truss, cut it into eight pieces, trim off all the skin, glaze the pieces, and keep them warm. Put the body, bones, and trimmings of the Pheasant, pounded, into the stewpan whence it was taken, having previously drained off the fat. Add | wineglassful of Madeira and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of gravy, and boil it for five or six minutes, then pass it through a sieve. Mix the liver puree with the gravy, adding at the same time 3 table-spoonfuls of minced truffles that have just been cooked, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Place the pieces of Pheasant on a hot dish, Pheasants—continued. pour the sauce over them, garnish with crofttons of fried bread, and serve. Souffle of Pheasant.—(1) Cut the flesh from the breast of a cooked Pheasant into small pieces, put them in a mortar with the fried liver - of the Pheasant, and pound them ; then mix with them half their quantity of dry boiled rice, and pound again. Mix with the preparation 3 table- spoonfuls of brown sauce that has been reduced with the trimmings of the Pheasant and some truffle trimmings, season with pepper and salt, and pass all through a fine hair sieve; put the mixture in a saucepan, stir it over the fire till warm, then take it off and add gradually the beaten yolks of six eggs, and 3oz. of butter, broken in little bits, and work it quickly for three minutes. Butter a souffle-mould, and fill it half-way up with the preparation. Cut a strip of paper out 2in. wide, then put it round the interior of the mould, allowing half of it to come above the rim; then fill the mould with the rest of the mixture, stand it on a baking-sheet, surround it with ashes, and bake the souffle for twenty-five minutes in a slow oven. Take the mould out of the oven, put it on a hot dish, and serve at once. (2) Skin and bone a roasted Pheasant, put the meat and liver, if the bird was not too high to use the liver, into a mortar, and pound them; put the meat in a sauce- pan with some rich gravy, and stir it over the fire till hot, but do not let it boil. Break the bones of the Pheasant into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with a little gravy, and stew them gently. Strain the gravy from the bones, stir in a little butter and flour that has been worked together, and a small quantity of glaze, and stir it over the fire till thick; then add a lump of plain butter, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and the yolks of four eggs. Pass the puree of Pheasant-meat through a hair sieve, mix it with the sauce, add the whites of two eggs that have been beaten stiff, but do not let the sauce boil after the eggs have been added. Fill some soufllft cases with the preparation, and bake it in an oven for twenty minutes or till it rises, then serve at once. (3) Mince very fine the meat of a Pheasant, that has not been cooked, by putting it through a sausage-machine twice, mix with it Jib. of sifted breadcrumbs and h pint of strong stock, put it over the fire in a stewpan, and boil it till it will come clean from the pan. Take it from the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, two truffles finely chopped, six mushrooms finely chopped, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Line a souffle-mould with buttered paper. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and when the mixture is cold beat them lightly into it, pour it into the mould, and bake it. Serve it in the mould it is baked in, with a hot napkin pinned round it. Stewed Pheasants.—(1) Lard two Pheasants with strips of bacon, having previously trussed them as for boiling. Line a stewpan with bacon, put the birds in, and sprinkle over them some mixed spices, pepper and salt; cover them with slices of bacon, pour in sufficient white wine and stock, mixed in equal quantities, to cover them, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire for two hours. Drain the Pheasants when cooked, put them on a hot dish, without the slices of bacon, pour some game sauce over, and serve. (2) Truss a Pheasant as for roasting, stuff the crop with forcemeat, and flour it. Place the bird in a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter, and fry it till lightly browned. Put in the stewpan four or five small onions, cut into pieces, and | pint of strong well-seasoned gravy; put the lid on the stewpan, and cook the bird slowly for three-quarters-of-an- bour or till tender. When done, take the Pheasant out and keep it hot whilst the gravy is being prepared. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, put it in a saucepan, skim off the fat, mix in with it a little butter rolled in flour, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Lay the Pheasant on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve. (3) Cut a Pheasant up as it is carved at table, put the pieces into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them