THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 987 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. them until nicely browned, turning when done on one side. When cooked drain the cutlets and place them in a circle on a hot dish, put the cauliflower in the centre, garnish round with the vegetables, and serve. (2) Trim the cutlets and put them into a saucepan; cover with slices of bacon, moisten with stock, and stew until tender, then take them out, and keep hot. Prepare some carrots, turnips, salsify, and artichoke-bottoms, cutting them into small pieces, and put them in the cooking- stock of the cutlets. Boil gently over a moderate lire until tender and the moisture lias entirely reduced. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, pour the vegetables in the centre, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Maitre d'Hotel.—Prepare the cutlets from a neck of Mutton, by trimming them neatly, cutting the bones off rather short, and removing most of the fat; then beat them with a cutlet-bat, season on both sides with salt and pepper, and keep them in a cool larder for an hour or two. Work together with the blade of a knife ljoz. of butter, J table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, put in the cutlets, and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, put the cutlets on a hot dish, put small pieces of the parsley butter over each, garnish with fried parsley, and serve very hot. Mutton Cutlets a la Marechal. Chop finely 2oz. of veal and pound it in a mortar together with 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley; add to it less than h saltspoonful each of salt and pepper and 1 saltspoonful of nutmeg, mix, and then stir in 1 table-spoonful of cream. Take five Mutton cutlets, trim then neatly, leaving on part of the fat; beat an egg, dip them in it, and roll them in a mixture of 3 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs and rather more than h saltspoonful each of salt and pepper laid on a sheet of paper. Put some clarified fat in a frying-pan, and when quite hot fry the cutlets in it for eight minutes, turning them once. When fried, take them out of the pan, divide the veal mixture in the mortar into live equal portions, and spread one on each cutlet; sprinkle some finely-chopped mush- rooms over the veal mixture, and bake in a rather hot oven for ten minutes. Serve on a hot dish garnished with fried parsley. Mutton Cutlets la Minute. --Procure some cutlets from the best part of a neck of Mutton, trim them to a nice shape, and dust them over with salt and pepper, seasoning on both sides. Dissolve a lump of butter on a plate near the fire, roll the cutlets in it, and lay them on a broiler over a clear, brisk fire, turning them when cooked on one side. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, place the cutlets on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Polonaise. —Cut off all the fat from about six cutlets, put them in a stewpan together with a sliced carrot and turnip and two onions, add also a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient broth to moisten. Set the pan on the side of the fire, and simmer gently until the meat is quite tender. Now take out the cutlets, and keep them hot. Strain the gravy into another saucepan, reduce it to glaze, mask the cutlets with it, and serve hot with a tureenful of tomato sauce. Mutton Cutlets a la Rachel. Chop three or four slices of fat bacon, fry them for two or three minutes, then put in the pan ilb. of chopped calf’s liver, and fry until the liver is cooked. Season to taste, pound all to a smooth paste in a mortar, then pass it through a fine wire sieve. Neatly trim some Mutton cutlets that have been cut ofl the best end of a neck, and fry them. When cooked, drain the cutlets as free from fat as possible, put them between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them until cold. When ready, trim the cutlets again, and spread a layer of the pounded mixture over one side of each of them. Wrap them in a piece of caul, and put them in the oven until hot. Brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, arrange in a circle on a hot dish, with a border of mashed potatoes round them, and serve very hot, with a sauceboatful of demi-glaze. Mutton—continued. Mutton Cutlets a la Reform.—Trim the cutlets neatly; mix a few table-spoonfuls of finelv-minced ham with some breadcrumbs, and season them with salt and pepper. Roll the cutlets in beaten egg and in the breadcrumbs. Melt a large lump of butter in a flat stewpan, put in the cutlets, and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. Arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with chopped and cooked mushrooms, truffles, gherkins, and boiled white of egg; pour a reform sauce round them, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise. -Cut the best end of a neck of Mutton into cutlets, saw oil' the upper rib-bones, leaving the bones of the cutlets about 3in. long, and scrape about Jin. at the top of each bone clean. Trim the cutlets to a nice shape, lay them in a buttered saute-pan, dust over with salt and pepper, and fry over a brisk fire, turning them to cook equally on both sides. Peel and cut into slices lib. of large onions, put them into a saucepan with J pint of milk, and boil until tender; drain, pass them through a fine hair sieve, return them to the saucepan with If, breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce, and boil. When the sauce is reduced to about half its original quantity, mix with it 1 teacupful of cream, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of moist sugar, and keep it on the fire till it begins to bubble again, then move it to the side. When cooked, drain the cutlets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Venetienne. -Use the cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton, trim them neatly, scraping clean about tin. of the top of each bone, and braise them. When cooked, drain, and press them between two plates until cold. Prepare a sufficient quantity of quenelle forcemeat to spread over one side of each cutlet, and mix with it a small quantity each of chopped truffles and tongue. Trim the cutlets again, spread the forcemeat over, and lay them in a stewpan, the forcemeat side up- wards; pour about 1 J breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce round, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and stew gently at the edge of the fire for a-quarter-of-an- liour. Cut some cooked tongue and gherkins into strips, arrange the cutlets in a circle round the dish, put the strips of tongue and gherkin in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. Mutton Cutlets in Aspic Jelly. Procure some cutlets from a neck of Mutton, saw off the chine-bones, leave the Fig. 1228. Mutton Cutlets in Aspic Jelly. rib-bones about 3in. long, and trim off about Jin. of the meat from each. Season the cutlets with salt and pepper on both sides, and fry them in butter until nicely cooked. Drain off as much of the fat as possible, and pour J tea-