982 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. gradually about l pint of cold water, and stir it over the lire until boiling and thickened. Strain the liquor into a clean stewpan, put in the pieces of Mutton, which should have been prepared, pour in a small quantity of Harvey’s sauce, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let it simmer at the side of the fire. Serve the hash on a hot dish garnished with sippets of toast. (4) Cut some slices of the lean of roast Mutton, trim off all the skin and fat, season with pepper and salt, and lay them in a pie-dish, scattering among them 4oz. of sifted breadcrumbs and a small quantity of chopped parsley and onion. Pour over them 1 table-spoonful of walnut liquor or ketchup and 4 table-spoonfuls of good gravy; cut loz. of butter into small bits and scatter them over it, cover with sifted breadcrumbs, and place more little bits of butter over the top. Brown it in front of the lire or in the oven, and serve hot. (5) Cut some thin slices of Mutton, trim them nicely, put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of broth or less according to the quantity of meat, let it barely simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and then skim off' the fat. Add a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mushroom ketchup, also a small quantity of vinegar or strained lemon-juice, thicken it with butter and flour, and serve hot. (6) Cut some cold cooked Mutton into nice slices, trim off" all the fat and skin, ami flour each slice on both sides. Select some nice large mushrooms, trim and cut each one into four pieces ; melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the mushrooms with a little stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew them gently. When the mush- rooms are cooked, put in the pieces of meat and stir them at the side of the tire until well heated, but do not boil them. Turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. Hashed Mutton au Gratin.—Proceed as for Hashed Mutton a la Zingara, omitting the tomatoes and garlic. Place the hash on a baking-dish, sprinkle with a few breadcrumbs, spread a very little butter on top, and put in the oven until of a good golden colour (it will take from eight to ten minutes). Hashed Mutton a la Zingara.-—Chop up two onions, and fry them in a saucepan with loz. of butter for three minutes, adding Hlb. of cooked and hashed Mutton, also one fourth the quantity of chopped cooked potatoes. Season with 1 table-spoonful of salt, the same of pepper, and h saltspoonful of nutmeg. Also put in two raw tomatoes cut up, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and a crushed clove of garlic. Add 1 gill each of Spanish sauce and broth ; mix all together, and cook for twenty minutes; then serve with 1 pinch of chopped parsley sprinkled over the whole. Hashed Mutton and Fried Eggs.—Cut some cold remains of Mutton into nice-shaped pieces, trimming off the fat and brown skin; put them in a stewpan with a little well- seasoned gravy, and warm. When very hot, stir some tinned tomatoes in with them, turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish round with fried eggs and small crofitons of bread that have been fried in butter, and serve. Hashed Mutton with Poached Eggs.—Cut lib. or so of meat from a cooked leg or loin of Mutton, trim off the fat, and chop it into small pieces; put them into a sauce- pan with one dozen cooked mushrooms cut into dice, sprinkle in a little salt and pepper to taste, cover over the pan, and cook gently at the side of the fire. Put two or three chopped shallots into a saucepan with l wineglassful of Madeira, and add a bunch of parsley and fine herbs and a few peppercorns. Put the pan on the lire, cover it, and reduce the liquor to half its original bulk. Mix in double its quantity of brown sauce and reduce again, then add a little melted glaze, and pass the whole through a very fine sieve. Pour it over the meat, warm the hash up without letting it boil, turn it out on to a dish, and garnish with eight or nine poached eggs, putting a piece of fried bread cut in the form of a crescent between the eggs. Hung Mutton.—Place a leg of Mutton with the knuckle end downwards, and cover the thick end with coarse brown Mutton—continued. sugar. Rub it well in and repeat it every day. so long as it is required to hang, taking care to have it always well covered with the sugar. If well hung it will last for several days and can be roasted in the usual way. Leg of Mutton a la Frovenqale.—Cut about twelve cloves of garlic and twelve anchovies into fillets and lard a leg of Mutton with them; roast the Mutton in front of a clear lire, keeping it well basted. Boil several cloves of garlic, changing the water constantly, and when nearly done, drain, and refresh them with cold water. Drain the garlic again, put it into a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful each of stock, gravy, and cullis, and boil until reduced to a thick creamy consistency. When cooked, place the Mutton on a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, garnish with vegetables (see Fig. 1225), and serve. Loin of Mutton en Papillote.—Saw the chine-bone off the neck end of a loin of Mutton, trim it to a nice shape, removing all the gristle and superfluous fat; lay it in a deep dish with plenty of finely-sliced carrots and onions, some peppercorns, cloves, sweet herbs, and two or three bay-leaves; season with salt and chopped parsley, moisten well with the best olive oil, and leave the meat in the marinade for one day. Afterwards spread the marinading vegetables and oil over a large sheet of paper, lay the meat on them, and wrap the paper well round, binding it in position with tape. Roast the meat in front of a rather slow fire; when nearly cooked, remove the paper and vege- tables, and brown the meat. Peel some potatoes and cut them into slices; put a good-sized lump of butter in a saute-pan, melt it, then put in the pot;]toes with some finely-chopped parsley, and toss them over the fire until lightly and equally browned. When cooked, place the Mutton on a hot dish, and serve it with the potatoes. Malayan Curried Mutton.—Wash a cauliflower, and pull it into small branches. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 heaped table-spoonful of curry powder, and stir them over the fire until mixed, then put in two peeled and chopped onions and one chopped sour apple. Fry them until tender, then pui in the pieces of cauliflower with 1 pint of fresh picked boiled shrimps, and stew them gently at the side the fire for an-hour-and-a-half, shaking the saucepan con- stantly and adding more butter if necessary. Put in some slices of Mutton, allowing time for them to get hot through. When ready, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, arrange the slices in a circle on a hot dish, turn the cauliflower and other ingredients in the middle, and serve very hot with boiled rice on a separate dish. Marinaded Leg of Mutton.—It is usual on the Continent to cook Ardennes Mutton in the following manner, the joints being small, and the flesh fine, delicate, dark, and fragrant: Remove the sinew from a leg of Mutton by pulling it, and put the leg into a deep oval dish. Pour over 1 pint of cold, cooked marinade, and let it remain for six hours to macerate, turning frequently. Take it out, drain, put it into a roasting-pan with some lard, and place it in a moderate oven to give a good colour to its surface. Remove all the fat from the marinade stock, strain it, and pour it over; cover the leg with paper and complete the cook- ing, basting frequently. When it is quite done, take out the leg, drain it, put a ruffle on the end, and place it on a dish. Strain the stock into a saucepan, remove all the fat, reduce it quickly to half-glaze, and thicken with