174 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. Stewed Marinaded Pig's Head.—Clean the head well, lay it in a deep dish with a few sliced onions, two or three slices of lemon, two hay-leaves, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bruised peppercorns and juniper-berries, and a few cloves. Dredge over plenty of salt, and baste with 4 or 5 table- spoonfuls of vinegar. Leave the head for four days, turn- ing and rubbing it well every day with the marinade. At the end of that time, dry the head well on a cloth. Melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, put in the head, baste it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and place it over the fire until lightly browned. Put about f pint of water in with the marinading mixture, pour it over the head, place the lid on the stewpan, and stew the contents _ at the side of the fire for one-hour-and-a-half, basting it now and then with the cooking liquor. When the head is cooked, put it on a hot dish, skim the fat oft' the sauce, strain it through a fine hah' sieve over the meat, and serve. Stewed Stuffed Young Pig’s Head.—Clean the head, feet, and liver of a young hog, put them in a saucepan with a little water, and parboil them. Take out the head, split it up through the nose, and remove all the bones. Chop the liver and meat from the feet, and season with salt and pepper. Lay the head open on a table, and put the mince and the yolks of nine hard-boiled eggs in it; if there is not sufficient to fill it, add some breadcrumbs or cracker-crumbs and butter. Sew up the head, and tie it with fine string or thread; put it in a stewpan with its stock, and cook gently over a slow fire. Take out the head, put a piece of butter rolled in flour in the liquor, and add some browning and walnut ketchup. Place the head on a dish, pour this over, and serve. Bread-and- butter should be used in place of the liver if the hog is not very small. Stewed Young Pig’s Head.—Clean the head and feet of a Pig, take out the bone above the nose, cut off the ears, and clean them thoroughly. Divide the jowl from the head, and put the brains in a basin. Place the head, jowl, feet, and part of the liver in a saucepan with suffi- cient water to cover, and boil until they are quite done and Fender. Put the meat from the head and liver, cut in small pieces, into a saucepan with the brains. Split the feet and add them as well as the jowl, which must remain intact; then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of walnut ketchup, one onion finely chopped, a stalk of celery, and pepper and salt to taste. A teaspoonful of mustard may be added if desired, as it is a great improvement. Place the pan on the fire and stew for thirty minutes. Put the jowl and feet in the centre of a dish, thicken the hash with a little grated breadcrumb, pour it round, and serve. Pig’s Kidneys.—These are by no means equal to sheep’s kidneys, lacking much of their unctuous flavour. Nevertheless Pig’s kidneys are not to be despised when prepared as follows: Pig’s Kidneys a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Clean and wash some Pig’s kidneys, cut them down the centre without quite dividing them, and run them through with a skewer to keep them flat. Rub them with a little butter, sprinkle over salt and pepper, put them on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil for a-quarter-of-an-hour, when they should be quite done. Take them off when done, remove the skewers, put them on a dish, pour over a little maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve. Stewed Pig’s Kidneys.—(1) Put a couple of Pig’s kidneys in a little cold water, and steep them for a few minutes. Take them out, drain, cut them into slices, and put them in a saucepan together with 2oz. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of flour, half that quantity of minced parsley, two chives, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, and 1 wineglassful of Madeira. Place the pan on the fire and cook the contents gently, without letting them boil, for a-quarter-of-an-hour. They must be stirred constantly, as they are very likely to burn. When done, put them on a dish, and serve very hot. Pig’s kidneys may also be cooked in the same way as sheep’s if desired. Figs—continued. (2) Wash some Pig’s kidneys, put them into a basin of water, and let them steep for a few minutes. Take them out, wipe dry, cut them in slices, and put them into a saucepan with 1 wineglassful of white wine, 2oz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of flour, three chives, 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and 1 saltspoonful of pepper. Put the pan over a slow fire, stirring the mixture continually to prevent it sticking to the pan; let it cook for a-quarter- of-an-hour, without boiling, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Pig’s Liver.—In spite of the tastiness of other parts of the Pig, the liver by itself is not considered a very prime dish. Prepared, however, with plenty of seasoning, as shown in the following receipts, Pig’s liver may be considered acceptable: Baked Pig’s Liver.—Wash a Pig’s liver, cut it into slices, put them in a basiu of water, and soak. Put 24-lb. of peeled and washed potatoes into a saucepan of water, and boil until they are tender, then take them out and mash them. Chop up fine a large Spanish onion, and mix with it 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and sage. Well butter a mould or deep dish, put a layer of the potatoes at the bottom, then a layer of the slices of liver, and one or two thin slices of bacon; dust these well with salt and pepper, then sprinkle over a little of the onion mixture. Put another layer of all of these in the same order, finish- ing with a layer of the mashed potatoes. Pour over a little water or stock, put the dish or mould in a moderate oven, and bake the contents for two hours. When done, turn it out of the dish or mould on to a flat dish, biown the top and side with a salamander, and serve. Pig’s Liver Saute.—Thoroughly wash a Pig’s liver and steep it in water until all the blood has disgorged; cut it into slices about Jin. thick, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Lay them in a buttered saute-pan and fry over a brisk fire, turning them when done on one side; just before taking them out of the pan strew over them some choppied parsley and shallot. A lien quite cooked, place the slices of liver on a hot dish. Put in the saute- pan with the butter and seasonings 1 teaspoonful of flour that has been smoothly mixed with a small quantity of Fig. 227. Pig’s Liver Saute. white wine, add a little more butter if necessary, and stir it over the fire, but do not boil it. Pour the sauce over the liver, garnish with slices of lemon (see Fig. 227), and serve at once. Pig's-Liver Saveloys.—(1) Procure 21b. of Pig’s liver, scrape it with a knife, then mince it finely. Chop 21b. of lean cooked pork, and mix with it an equal quantity of chopped fresh fat bacon and the liver; sprinkle over the mixture a little salt, saltpetre, spices, and cayenne pepper, and pour 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of kirschenwasser over. Fry three chopped onions anil mix them with the rest. Chop the preparation for ten minutes more. Soak and well wash some pig’s intestines, and fill them as full as pos- sible with the above mixture; tie them round at din. or bin. distance from each other, then hang the saveloys in the air where they will dry. Have a saucepan of boiling water, put the saveloys in, and let them simmer by the side of a slow fire for one hour. When done, take the saucepan away from the fire, and leave the saveloys in the water for one hour longer. Drain the saveloys, tie them up in cloths, and when quite cold they are ready for serving. (2) Mix with 81b. of finely-chopped raw Pig’s liver 41b. of finely-chopped fat pork, and season the mixture with