THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKER I 904 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. (3) Put a sheep’s head (with the skin remaining on) into warm water and let it soak. Remove the tongue and hrains, and carefully break all the thin hones inside the cheek. Wash it well in several waters and put it in a saucepan with lqt. of water and 1 teaspoonful of salt, and hoil it for ten minutes. Pour off the water, add ftgall. more, and lib. of the scrag end of a neck of Mutton, two carrots and turnips, six onions, a sprig of parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan over a slow fire and boil gently for about live hours; strain off the broth and let it cool in order to remove the fat. Take all the vege- tables, rub them through a fine sieve, mix in 1 table-spoon- ful of cornflour rubbed smoothly into 1 gill of milk, boil the soup, and stir them in. In the meantime boil the tongue until it is quite tender, skin it, and trim off all the superfluous fat, chop it very fine, add the brains also cooked, and mix in an equal bulk (of the brains and tongue to- gether) of breadcrumbs, one egg, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste; roll the mixture into balls, using a little flour if it is too thin. Plunge the balls into a frying-pan with loz. of butter, fry them to a light brown colour, and drain off all the fat from them. Pour the soup into a tureen, add the balls, and serve with some parsley, scalded and chopped, on a dish. If the skin is removed from the head before being cooked, much of the nourishment is lost. The neck and head after cooking may be used for other purposes. (4) Pour 7 pints of water into a saucepan over 71b. of the scrag end of a neck of Mutton, and add three carrots, the same of turnips, one onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan on the side of the fire and simmer gently for about ten hours, taking care to stir it frequently. Let it remain in the saucepan for a day; boil it up, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for three hours longer. Take out the meat, put it on a dish with the vegetables for a garnish, and serve. Strain the soup through a fine sieve into another saucepan, let it get cold, remove all the fat, and add gradu- ally 6 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot mixed to a smooth paste with water, and salt and pepper to taste,, stirring well until it thicken -. When done, turn it out into a tureen, and serve. Mutton Steak a la Florentine. -Cut the meat off a leg of Mutton into thick steaks or slices, and nib each slice over on both sides with grated nutmeg, salt, and pepper. Season some breadcrumbs with thyme, savory, cloves, mace, salt, and pepper, and bind them with beaten yolks of eggs, then divide and mould the mixture into small balls ; butter the edges of a pie-dish, line them with paste, and put in the slices of Mutton, together with the balls, four chopped shallots, a dusting of powdered sweet herbs, and two or three anchovies. Moisten with 4 pint each of claret and water, and put on the top 41b. of butter broken in small pieces. Cover with puff paste, and trim round the edges, moistening and pressing them together. Bake the pie in a good oven, and serve while hot. Mutton Tea.—This is used and made like beef tea. Chop off all the fat from lib. of Mutton, and cut it into slices, put it into a saucepan, pour over 14 pints of boiling- water, boil for an-liour-and-a-half, and it is ready for use. It may be served with loz. of pearl barley, washed and macerated in boiling water for an hour, and boiled with the slices of Mutton. The barley must be well strained before being used, so that all that is not dis- solved will be separated. Neck of Mutton a la Bohemienne.—Trim a neck of Mutton, beat it well, lay it on a deep dish, and cover with slices of onions, carrots, turnips, leeks, and pieces of celery. Pour lqt. of vinegar and 1 pint of broth into a saucepan, stand it over the fire until boiling, then put in two blades of mace, 1 teaspoonful each of cloves and peppercorns, three bay-leaves, a small bunch of sweet herbs, |lb. of moist sugar, and a small lump of salt. Boil the liquor for twenty minutes, then move it off the fire. When cold, pour the pickle over the vegetables and meat, and let it marinade for three days, turning it each day. At the end of that time, make a stiff flour-and- Mutton—continued. water paste, drain the meat from the marinade, and wrap it in the paste, covering it well; then cover it with thick paper, and tie it round securely. Roast the Mutton for two or three hours, according to the size. When cooked, take it out of the paste, glaze it, and brown under a salamander. Strain 4 pint of the marinading liquor into a saucepan, pour in lqt. of brown sauce, and boil it quickly until reduced to a creamy thickness; skim it, mix with it half a small pot of red-currant jelly, two dozen blan- ched mushrooms, about eighteen pickled onions, and the same of stoned French olives. Stir the sauce over the lire until these latter ingredients are thoroughly heated through. Put the neck of Mutton on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Neck of Mutton a la Bretonne.—Chop oft' the chine bones and scrags of two necks of Mutton, trim them to a nice shape, and roast in front of a clear fire, keeping them well basted. A pint of French haricot beans should have been put in water the night before, and well soaked. Drain the beans, put them in a saucepan with fresh water, loz. of butter, and a lump of salt, and boil until tender. As the beans will require much longer cooking than the Mutton, they should lie put over the fire some time before the Mutton goes down. Peel and thinly slice three large onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter or clarified fat, and fry until nicely browned ; dredge a small quantity of flour over them, and pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of clear gravy. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, put in the beans, with a small piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir until the glaze has dissolved. When cooked, put the Mutton on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. Neck of Mutton a la Charte.—Chop off the chine-bones and scrag of a neck of Mutton, and trim it neatly; lard it with thin strips of bacon, put it into a stewpan with slices of bacon and vegetables, moisten with broth, and braise it. Peel and wash about half-a-dozen young turnips, and cut them into balls with a vegetable-scoop; put 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar in a stewpan, place it over a brisk fire, and when it begins to brown put in 2oz. of butter and the turnips; toss them about until they are nicely glazed, then pour in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce and 1 breakfast-cupful of broth. Boil the turnips gently until tender, then take them out of the liquor, skim it, and boil it quickly until reduced to a creamy consistency. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, return it to the stewpan with the turnips, and keep them hot at the side of the fire. Peel and trim a dozen small turnips to a pear shape, and boil them in stock until tender. When cooked, put the Mutton on a hot dish, pour the balls of turnips and sauce over it, pile the pear-shaped turnips at each end in pyramids, and serve immediately. Neck of Mutton a la Provenpale.—Remove the scrag and chine-bones from a neck of Mutton, trim it to a nice shape, and lard it with thin strips of bacon. Put it in a saucepan with two onions with three cloves stuck in each, one carrot and turnip cut into slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, two bay-leaves, and a blade of mace. Moisten the meat to height with white broth, put the lid on the sauce- pan, and place it over the fire until the broth boils, then move it to the side and let it simmer for two hours. Peel and chop four large onions, put them in a stewpan with a few drops of salad-oil, and stir them over a moderate fire until lightly browned; dredge them over with flour, stir in gradually l breakfast-cupful of white sauce and 4 break- fast-cupful of stock, and simmer gently at the side of the fire until the onions are tender. Season the sauce to taste with pepper, salt, and 1 scant teaspoonful of moist sugar, and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs. The sauce must not boil after the eggs are added. When cooked, lay the Mutton on a dish, spread the sauce over it, brush the top over with beaten egg, and strew fine bread- crumbs over it; brown under a salamander or in a brisk oven. Put 14 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce in a stew- pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of broth and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, and boil until reduced to a creamy