THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 40 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, SaiXces, d'c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. Orange Marmalade.—(1) Squeeze out all the juice from the selected quantity of Seville Oranges, and strain it; poui- over the pul]) of the Oranges just as much water as will cover them, and let them steep for an hour. After- wards strain the liquor off the Oranges and mix it with the juice. For each quart of juice allow 31b. of loaf sugar; make a syrup with the sugar, boil it to the bubble (see Sugar-boiling), mix in the Orange-juice, and boil it for about fifteen minutes, keeping it well skimmed. Turn the marmalade into pots, and when cold cover and tie them down. (2) For every pound of Seville Oranges allow 21b. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar. Cut through the rind of each of the Oranges with a sharp knife, put them in a pre- serving-pan with soft water to cover, and stew over a gentle fire until a straw will easily pierce through the skin; pour in more water as it boils away, as the Oranges must lie kept covered. Drain the water into a basin, cut the rinds oil' the Oranges with a silver knife, and chop them into small shreds; squeeze the pulp of the Oranges through a coarse cloth into the water they were boiled in, put the liquor and peel into a clean preserving-pan, add the sugar, and boil the whole gently for half-an-hour, or until it will jelly when cold. When ready, turn the marmalade into jars, leave it until cold, then cover and tie down. (3) Peel 21b. of bitter Oranges and one sweet one, and squeeze the pulp and juice into a basin, taking care to remove the pips. Cut the peel into small pieces, and pour over 4qts. of water. The peel of a lemon cut into little bits should also be added, as it is a great improvement. Let it remain for a day, then pour it into a preserving- pan, and boil for three hours, when it should be quite transparent. Pour it back into the basin, let it stand for another day, and return it to the pan with Ijlb. of crushed loaf sugar to each pint of the juice. Boil for half-an-hour, turn it into jars, and it is ready for use. (4) Take a dozen or two Seville Oranges, cut them in halves, take out the skin and pulp, and boil the rinds in plenty of water, changing it two or three times. When the rinds are quite soft, take them up, drain, and let them cool. When well drained and quite cold, cut them into thin shavings. Scrape the pulp out of the skin, and pick out the pips. Weigh the peel and the pulp, and allow to each pound lib. of loaf sugar. Put the pulp and sugar together into a preserving-pan over the fire, let it boil gently to a syrup, add the peel, and boil gently for half- an-hour. Take it from the fire, let it cool a little, put into glass jars, and cover air-tight. (5) This is the best kind for puddings. Put twelve Seville Oranges into a saucepan of cold water, and boil until tender, changing the water two or three times, but each time adding boiling, and not cold, water, as at first. When ready, take them out, drain them, cut off their rinds, and pound in a mortar ; then add it to the pulp—without skin or seeds—and juice, and mix in sugar in the proportion of 21b. to each pound of fruit. Turn all into a jar large enough to more than hold it, and let it ferment a little. Tie down, and it will keep good for years, and requires no boiling. The finest moist sugar should be used. (6) Dundee.—Take two dozen Seville Oranges, cut the peel of eight of them and the peel of two lemons into small dice, and stew this chopped peel in water till it becomes quite tender. Peel the other sixteen Oranges, and cut the whole twenty-four into slices, removing the pips. Put the slices of Orange, together with their own juice and the juice of six lemons, over the fire in a pre- serving-pan, and boil them to a smooth mass. Rub this through a colander, but be as quick about it as possible, for fear of spoiling the colour ; put it back again over the fire, add 81b. of loaf sugar, and keep it boiling quickly, stirring constantly till quite thick. Drain the water from the chopped rinds, add them to the boiling marmalade, stir in well, and boil for two minutes longer; then take the pan from the fire, let the marmalade cool a little, and put it into jars. When quite cold, lay a piece of white tissue paper dipped in brandy on top of the marmalade in each jar, and tie down. Oranges—continued. (7) Florida.—Take twelve good-sized bitter Oranges and two good juicy lemons. Grate the rinds off six of the Oranges, and to this add the juice only of the two lemons. Peel off and throw away the thick white rinds of the grated Oranges; take all the rinds off the other six, and throw them away. Weigh the peeled Oranges, and to every pound allow lib. of sugar. Put the sugar, rind, and lemon-juice in a pan on the stove to boil; mean- while get the pips and white skin from the pulp and juice of the Oranges, and add this juice and pulp to the boiling sugar and lemon-juice. Let it boil very slowly till a little of it put in a saucer jellies as it cools, then remove it from the stove, let it cool a little, and put it into jars. When quite cold, lay in each jar, on top of the marmalade, a piece of white paper soaked in brandy, and close the jars air-tight with paper dipped in white of egg slightly beaten, but not to a froth. Orange-Marmalade Pudding.—(1) Baked.—Trim the skin and discoloured pieces off £lb. of beef-suet, and chop it very fine; put it into a basin with 1 heaped breakfast- cupful of finely-grated breadcrumbs and -1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Beat four eggs well together with 1 tea- cupful of milk, then mix them with the above ingredients, and beat for nearly twenty minutes. Thickly butter the interior of a mould, put in a layer of the mixture, then a layer of Orange marmalade, and continue putting in alternate layers of mixture and marmalade until the mould is full, making the last layer of the mixture. Put the pudding in a moderate oven, and bake it from Fig. 54. Orange-Marmalade Pudding. one-hour-and-a-half to two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve with Orange sauce over it (see Fig. 54), and some separate in a tureen. (2) Butter a pie-dish, and line it with a good puff1 paste; put 4oz. of fresh butter in a stewpan with 3 table-spoon- fuls of finely-chopped Orange marmalade, the juice of a small lemon, 4 well-beaten eggs, and sugar to taste. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling, then pour it into the lined dish. Bake for three- quarters-of-an-hour in a brisk oven, and serve either hot or cold. (3) Mix 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stale breadcrumbs with 1 breakfast-cupful of moist sugar, turn them into a pie- dish, and spread over them a thick layer of Orange mar- malade. Beat two eggs well with 1 pint of milk, pour it carefully into a dish over the other ingredients, grate a small quantity of nutmeg on the top, and bake the pudding in a moderate oven. When set and lightly browned, take it out of the oven, and serve. (4) Beat up four eggs well, and mix them with Iqt. of milk ; then sift in lightly, stirring at the same time, sufficient Hour to make a nice light batter, add a small quantity of salt, and if at all lumpy pass the batter through a fine hair sieve. Spread a thick layer of Orange marmalade in a pie-dish, pour in the batter, and bake for nearly three-quarters-of-an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, stand the dish containing the batter on a flat dish, and serve while hot.