133 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. pour the preparation into a mould and set it away to harden. Turn the cream out of the mould on to a dish, and serve with whipped cream. Feach Brandy.—Take 51b. of sound ripe peaches, crush them together with the peels and stones, and put all into a tub; pour over them 5qts. of alcohol, of 95 per cent., and 4qts. of water, and let it stand for twenty-four hours, keeping the tub covered. Strain off the liquor, squeezing the Peaches to get all the liquor from them, and strain it through flannel or filtering paper. Make a syrup by dissolving in water as much white sugar as the water will hold in solution, and if the sugar he very pure indeed this need not he hoiled. Should the sugar not he suffi- ciently pure, it must he hoiled till clear, taking off the scum as it rises. Add to the strained liquor 1| pint of this syrup (if hoiled, the syrup must he left till it is cold before adding it to the liquor), then mix it a little and bottle, corking it well. 1 wineglassful of this mixed with 1 table-spoonful of honey makes a nice winter drink. Peaches in Brandy.—Split some large Peaches in halves, put them in a lined pan with some syrup, and boil for two or three minutes; then take them out, peel the skins off, put them hack again in the same syrup, and let them simmer for five minutes; then take the pan off the fire, and leave the Peaches in it till the next day. Drain the Peaches, and arrange them carefully in jars. Boil their syrup to the feather degree (see SUGAR-BOILING), then mix with it an equal quantity of white brandy, and when | nearly cold pour it over the Peaches. When the syrup is quite cold, cork the jars, and tie bladder over the tops. Keep them in a cool dry cupboard. Peach. Brandy and Arrack Punch.—Put loz. of noyau essence and Joz. of essence of lemon into a howl, and mix them well up with 1 qt. of Peach brandy. Now pour in lqt. of essence of arrack, h pint of lime-juice, and stir in 3qts. of plain syrup, bottle it, cork up securely, and it will he fit to use in seven or eight days. Peach-Brandy Fiz.—Mix 1 dessert spoonful of syrup in a small glass with 1 wineglassful of brandy, put in a few lumps of ice, then pour the whole through a strainer into a large glass. Add 1 teaspoonful of Peach brandy, pour in a small bottle of soda water, and drink at once. Peach-Brandy Julep.—Put 1 wineglassful of good Peach brandy or liqueur into a large glass with an equal quan- I tity of syrup and half the quantity of brandy (cognac); then fill up the glass with broken ice; over that place a sprig of balm to flavour. Sprinkle the ice with a little noyau, dust over with sugar, and serve with a few sprays of red and white currants in the glass. Serve with straws. Feach Butter.—Rub ‘2qts. of Peaches with a coarse towel, cut them into slices, and put them in a preserving-pan with 1 pint of water. Place the lid on, move the pan to the back of the fire, and let the contents stew for an hour. Put 4 breakfast-cupfuls of preserving sugar in with the Peaches, and boil them for half-an-hour longer, stirring all the time with a wooden spatula. If left it will burn. Turn the butter into a jar, and keep it in a cool place. Peach Charlotte.—Peel six Peaches, cut them in halves, and take out their stones; chop them in little pieces, put them in a basin, sprinkle some vanilla sugar over them and 1 wineglassful of rum. Cut some thin slices of cake into fingers and line a charlotte-mould with them, letting them overlap each other. Stand the mould in a basin and surround it with pounded ice. In a-quarter-of- an-hour’s time put a layer of the pieces of Peaches at the bottom of the mould. Whip a little unset jelly with some maraschino, then pour sufficient into the mould to cover the Peaches. Leave it till the jelly is set, then put in another layer of the Peaches and some more jelly; continue in the same manner till the mould is full, allow- ing the jelly to set before another layer is put in. Lay a cover over the mould and keep it in ice for lialf-an- hour. Turn the charlotte out of the mould on to a dish; dip a paste brush in some maraschino, and brush all round Peaches—continued. to flavour it. Peel three Peaches, cut them in quarters, garnish round the base of the charlotte with them (see Fig. 181), pour some maraschino syrup over it, and serve. Peach Cheese.—(1) Procure the requisite amount of green Peaches, wipe them with a dry cloth to remove any im- purities, put them in a saucepan, and for each pound of fruit pour in about ^ pint of cold water. Boil them over a gentle fire until quite soft, then rub them through a fine hair sieve. Break some of the stones and mix their kernels with the Peach pulp. Weigh the pulp, and allow half its weight of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar; put it into a preserving-pan, boil it for a few minutes, then put in the sugar with the strained juice of two or three lemons, and stir it with a wooden spoon until reduced to a thick pulp. Turn the pulp into small moulds, keep them in a cool place, and when cold and firm the pulp may be turned out of the mould. The Peaches should be well looked over to see that they are perfectly sound before they are used. If one or two rotten ones are put in they will spoil the whole cheese. (2) Peel eight ripe Peaches, divide them into halves, take out the stones, and stew them in a little syrup till very tender; then drain, and pass them through a fine hair sieve. Crack the stones, peel the kernels, and put them in a mortar, pound them, pass them through a line hair sieve, and mix with the pulp of the Peaches and a little melted isinglass. Beat 1 pint of thick cream to a froth, then add it to the Peaches with more sugar if re- quired ; stand the basin over ice, and continue whipping till the isinglass is melted. Fill a mould with the pre- paration, surround it with pounded ice and salt, and stir the contents till frozen. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the cheese on an ornamental dish, and serve. (3) Peel twelve ripe Peaches, take out the stones, and pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve. Dissolve ten or twelve leaves of gelatine, mix it with the puree in a small copper bowl, and add also 4 pint of syrup that has been slightly flavoured with vanilla; stand the bowl on ice and whip the contents till beginning to thicken. Mix with the puree 1 wineglassful of maraschino, a little kirschenwasser, and 1A teacupfuls of whipped and sweetened cream. Pack a jelly-mould in pounded ice, fill it with the preparation, cover the mould, and leave it for an hour. Dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the contents out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Peach. Cheese Cakes.—Soak loz. of gelatine in a small quantity of water, then strain and put it into a stewpan with 1 breakfast-cupful of tinned Peaches and 1 breakfast- cupful of the juice. Stew the whole until the fruit is tender and the gelatine has dissolved; then mash the fruit with a wooden spoon, and mix in \ teacupful of pounded sweet biscuits, two well-beaten eggs, and about 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar; the mixture should be moved off the fire before the eggs are added. Butter sufficient patty-pans for the above quantity of fruit mixture