THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Abbreviations used: Eng., English; Fr., French; Ger., German; Find., Hindoostanee; Ital., Italian; Sp., Spanish. Quantities and measurements are abbreviated in the usual manner: lb., pound; oz., ounce; gall., gallon, qt., quart; ft., foot; in., inch. Note.—For further information upon any subject mentioned in the following articles, refer to that name in its alphabetical order. NANTES SALAD.—See Salads. NAPKINS.—See Serviettes. NAPLES BISCUITS—See Biscuits. NAPOLEON CAKE.—See Cakes. NASCA.—An amber-coloured wine made in Sardinia. It has an agreeable bouquet, and stands very high in native estimation. NASSAU PUDDING—See Puddings. NASTURTIUM.—Popular names are often very misleading, and none more so than that of Nasturtium, or Indian cress. The watercress alone is a true Nas- turtium, and the term Indian cress is quite a misnomer, seeing that the plants of this kind (Tropseolum) are all natives of South America, and are not of the cress family. Writing of the Nasturtium (see Fig. 1) as we call it, an eminent horticulturist tells us that it is useful as well as ornamental, both the seeds and young shoots making capital pickles, not even second to capers. The leaves and flowers can be used in preparing exceedingly orna- mental salads. See Fig. 2. The following receipts give some very good notions of the preparations to which the garden Nasturtium, either dwarf or climber, lends itself. Nasturtium-Flower Vinegar.—Pick sufficient full-blown Nasturtium-flowers to fill a quart bottle, add half a clove of garlic and a chopped shallot, and fill up the bottle with vinegar; leave this for two months, then rub the whole through a very fine sieve. Season with cayenne and salt, and bottle. Nasturtium Salad.—Pick the required quantity of Nas- turtium-flowers, put them in a salad-bowl, and sprinkle over them 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped chervil and a VOL. II. N asturtium—continued. small quantity of salt. Squeeze the juice of two lemons in 3 taide-spoonfuls of salad-oil, stir it until well mixed, Fig. 1. Nasturtium-plant (Trop.eolum majus). then pour it over the salad ; toss it about with a wooden spoon, then serve without delay. B