25 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Satices, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. Place the Onions in a hot dish, strain the gravy over them, and serve. Boiled Onions.—(1) Put some Onions in a saucepan with sufficient milk and water in equal quantities to cover them, and boil until quite tender. Place them on a dish, pour over butter sauce, and serve; or they may be finely chopped, and stewed with milk, butter, and a little salt. (2) Remove the skin from some Onions, put them into a saucepan, and pour over sufficient water to cover. Put the pan on the fire, and boil quickly until they are soft; drain off the water, add sufficient milk to make a sauce, stir in a little butter, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, put them on a dish, and serve hot. Boiled Onions ■with Cream.—Peel twelve medium-sized Onions, pare the roots without cutting them, and place them in a saucepan; cover with salted water, add a bouquet garni, and cook for forty-five minutes. Lift them from the saucepan, and lay them on a dish; cover with J pint of cream sauce mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of the broth the Onions were cooked in, garnish with parsley (see Fig. | 37), and serve. Boiled Spanisli Onions.—Put the required number of Spanish Onions into a saucepan of salted water, boil them for thirty minutes, then' take them out, drain, and put them into another pan with a little butter or dripping; sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and stew gently for about three hours, with the cover on the pan to prevent the steam escaping. They should be occasionally basted with the dripping, and care must be taken that they do not burn in cooking. Burnt Onions.—Peel til), of Onions, put them into a sauce- pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and cook for five minutes. Add tlb. of moist sugar, and simmer gently until the mixture is almost black. Pour in 1 gill of boiling vinegar, stirring well with a wooden spoon, and it is then ready for use. It may be poured into bottles and kept if required. Dressed Raw Onions. —Peel some Onions, cut them in slices, chop them fine, put them into water with a very little salt, and let them soak for an hour or so. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and pour over a mixture of J gill of vinegar, 2 table-spoonfuls each of made mustard, chilli vinegar, and sugar, and 1 table- spoonful of salt. Put a lump of ice on the top, and garnish the dish with curled parsley. If the parsley is eaten after the onions, it is supposed to take the smeli from them. Fried Minced Onions.—Peel three medium-sized Spanish Onions, cut them in halves, and then into fine slices. Put them in a saute-pan with 4oz. of butter, and let them get a good golden colour on the stove for ten minutes, I tossing them briskly. Place them in a bowl, and use as required. Fried Onions.—(1) Peel, and slice into even rounds, four medium-sized Onions. Lay them first in milk, then in flour, and fry in very hot fat for eight minutes. Lift them up, and lay them on a cloth to dry. Serve on a dish with a folded napkin, with a little fried parsley. (2) Peel and wash some Onions, chop them small, put them in a frying-pan with sufficient water to cover, and cook gently until all the moisture has dried up. Then add a slice of fat pork and a little salt and pepper, and fry them until quite brown, when they are ready for use. Fried Onions with. Foached Eggs.—Peel six large Onions, slice them finely, dust over with cayenne, put them into a frying-pan with a small quantity of butter, and fry. Onions—continued. Take them out, drain them, dry before the fire, place in a dish, and squeeze over sufficient lemon-juice to saturate Fig. 38. Fried Onions with Poached Eggs. them and give them a very acid flavour. Poach six eggs, place them on the Onions (see Fig. 38), and serve hot. Fried Onions and Rice on Toast.—Wash lib. of rice, tie it loosely in a cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil until tender, but not to a pulp. 5\ hen cooked, drain the rice well in a colander. Peel and slice three or four Onions, melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, put in the Onions, fry them till beginning to brown, then put in the rice, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir it about until very hot. Toast three or four slices of bread, butter them, and lay them on a hot dish; turn the rice mixture on to them, squeeze a small quantity of lemon-juice over, and serve. Fried Spanisli Onions.—Peel and slice 21b. of Spanish Onions, put them into a frying-pan containing 2 piled table- spoonfuls of butter made smoking hot over the fire, season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and J saltspoonful oi pepper, dust them very lightly with a little cayenne, and stir over the fire until they are tender. When done, servo them on toast, pouring the gravy they yield in cooking over them. Fried Stuffed Spanish Onions. —Peel and boil four Spanish Onions whole; when they are tender, scoop out the centres and fill them with forcemeat. Fry them a light brown, and serve with good brown gravy poured over them. Glazed Onions. -(1) Remove the skin from some Onions and put them into a saucepan with a little warmed butter; add sugar and salt to taste, and pour over a little stock. Place the pan over the fire and simmer gently until they are quite tender and the outside brown, then take them out and serve on a dish. A little of the liquor thickened with flour may be served as a sauce. (2) Take off the skins from some small Onions, having them as nearly as possible of a uniform size; arrange them in a saucepan with a little butter, putting them close together, sprinkle over a little salt, pepper, and sugar, and add sufficient water to moisten them. Cover the Onions over with a piece of well-buttered paper, and cook over a quick fire until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity, and of a thick glaze. Put the Onions on a dish, add a little Spanish sauce to the liquor, skim off' all the fat, and strain it over the Onions. (3) Take forty young Onions, about the size of walnuts, remove the skins, put them into a saucepan, with loz. each of butter and sugar, and toss over the fire to give them a light coating. Pour in sufficient stock to cover, and cook gently until they are done and quite tender. Take them out, drain them on a cloth, and arrange on a border of mashed potatoes. Skim the liquor, reduce it to a glaze, stir in a little butter, pour it over them, and serve. Care must be taken that the skins do not burst in cooking. Onions au Gratin.-Peel some large Spanish Onions and cut them into rather thick slices ; butter a baking-dish, lay the slices of Onions on it, dust over with salt and pepper, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and bake them in a brisk oven until lightly browned. When rather soft, cover the Onions with grated Parmesan cheese; put them again in the oven until the cheese has melted, then place them on a hot dish, and serve. Onion Cake.- Peel five or six large Onions, cut them into halves, boil them for fifteen minutes, drain, and chop them finely together with a small lump of 1 (utter. Beat two eggs and mix with them 4 table-spoonfuls of cold mashed potatoes, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of chopped ham, about 1