TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 73 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. Dredge flour over a table, put the mixture on it, divide it into small quantities, and roll them into halls. Dip the halls in beaten white of egg, then roll them in finely- grated breadcrumbs. Put a large quantity of clarified fat in a stewpan, place it over the fire until smoke rises, then drop in the halls, one at a time, and fry until lightly browned. As the halls are cooked, take them out of the fat and lay them on sheets of paper to drain. Arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Tried Oyster Cutlets.—(1) Finely chop several large Oysters, together with an equal quantity of veal, put them together in a mortar with a small quantity of chopped veal-suet, and pound them until smooth. Soak in the liquor from the Oysters as many breadcrumbs as it will moisten, then mix them with the other ingredients. Season the mixture to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of pounded mace, and bind it with beaten yolks of eggs. When quite smooth divide the mixture into equal portions, and mould them into Hat cutlets ; roll them in beaten egg and bread- crumbs, covering them well. Put a lump of butter in a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when boiling put in the cutlets and fry them until nicely browned. Drain them for a minute on a sheet of paper in front of the fire, then arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper; put a bunch of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. (2) Fry some breadcrumbs in a little butter, and mix them in with the strained liquor of a dozen Oysters. Chop the Oysters very fine, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil for two or three minutes. Take them out, drain off all the liquor, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and mix in the yolks of two eggs. When this mixture is cold, form it into the shape of cutlets, dip them into beaten egg and then into the fried breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, and fry to a light brown. Take them out, drain, put them on a dish, and serve very hot, with a garnish of fried parsley. Fried Oysters as in Hamburg. -For this dish Holstein Oysters and zwiebach should be used. This zwiebach is a milk roll, cut in slices and dried to a light colour in a moderate oven. It is obtainable anywhere in Germany. Beard a dozen or so of these Oysters, roll them well in grated Parmesan cheese, dip them into well-beaten egg, and then into the pounded zwiebach. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard, fry them for a minute or two, take them out, drain them, put them on a dish, and serve. Fried Oyster Patties.—Make some good puff paste, roll it out rather thin, and cut it into round pieces. Chop some Oysters, mix them with chopped hard-boiled egg, a little chopped parsley, and a little grated lemon-peel; add a season- ing of pepper, salt, and pounded mace, moisten the mixture with cream and a little Oyster liquor, then put a good spoonful on to each piece of paste, fold it over, moisten the edges with a little cream, and press them together. Brush the patties over with the yolk of an egg, and fry them for ten or fifteen minutes. Fried Truffled Oysters.—Chop 6oz. of the cooked breast of a fowl and half the quantity of raw fat salt pork, put them into a mortar with a little pepper, and pound them. Chop a few truffles into pieces the size of peas, and mix them in. Put four dozen Oysters on a cloth, and with a sharp knife inserted at the edge of one of them make an opening up and down inside, but not to make the hole too large, and fill them with the mixture. Put them, when all done, into a basin of flour, coat them well over, dip them into well-beaten egg, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a golden colour. Take them out, drain them on a cloth in a slow oven, sprinkle over with salt, and arrange them on pieces of toast on a dish, and serve Imitation Fried Oysters.—Take a bunch of salsify or Oyster-plant, scrape it well, wash, and grate it. Make a Oysters—continued. thin batter with \ pint of milk, two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient flour; stir into it the scraped salsify, beat the batter well, mix in a seasoning of pepper and salt, then drop it a spoonful at a time into boiling lard or dripping. Have a colander quite hot set over a bowl in the oven and as fast as the mock Oysters are fried throw them into it to drain. Serve hot, free from grease, and as quickly as possible. Imitation Scalloped Oysters.—(1) Put several herring roes in water the night before wanted, and let them soak all night. On the following morning dry the roes and cut them into pieces the size of an Oyster. Butter the interior of some scallop shells, and put in each 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, the smallest quantity of pounded mace, a few drops of lemon-juice, and a thick layer of breadcrumbs. Put a piece of the roe in each shell, strew a few minced capers over them, and cover with more breadcrumbs. Put a very small piece of butter on the top of each, and place them in a slow oven. When nicely browned on the top, arrange the shells on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Remove the skin and bone from a Dutch herring, finely mince the flesh, and spread it over the well-washed lower shells of some Oysters. Boil a calf’s sweetbread in salted water, and when it is cooked cut it into small pieces; grate about 1 breakfast-cupful of stale bread, and season it with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Dip the pieces of sweetbread first in beaten egg and then in the seasoned breadcrumbs, lay a piece in each shell, then cover them with breadcrumbs, placing here and there a small piece of herring. Baste them with butter, and brown them under a salamander or in a brisk oven. When lightly and delicately browned, arrange the shells on a hot dish that has been embellished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper and serve. Imitation Stewed Oysters.—Take a bunch of salsify, scrape and wash it well, put it in a saucepan over the fire in weak vinegar and water, bring it quickly to the boil, and boil for ten minutes. Drain off the vinegar and water and rinse the salsify in boiling water, drain this off also, and then pour over just sufficient boiling water to cover and let it boil gently for another ten minutes; add 2oz. of butter and a seasoning of salt and pepper and let it stew in this till quite tender. Meantime have a double saucepan on the fire, the outer one filled with boiling water; put in the inner one | pint of milk, thicken it with cornflour, and add 2oz. of butter. When the salsify is quite tender put it into this sauce. Add a little pepper and salt and let it remain for five minutes, keeping the water hr the outer saucepan boiling steadily. Serve in a covered dish. Oysters a l’Americaine.—(1) Place in a saucebowl 1 heaped teaspoonful of salt, f teaspoonful of very finely-ground white pepper, one medium-sized, fine, sound, well-peeled shallot, 1 heaped teaspoonful of chives, and \ teaspoonful of parsley, all very finely chopped. Mix lightly together, then pour in 1 teaspoonful of olive oil, six drops of tabasco sauce, 1 saltspoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and lastly 1 gill (or 5J table-spoonfuls) of good vinegar. Mix it thoroughly with a spoon, and it is ready for use. A teaspoonful should be poured over each Oyster just before eating. (2) Open some Oysters, put them into a saucepan with their liquor and salt and pepper, boil them for one-minute- and-a-half, place them in a soup-plate, pour over some hot milk, and serve. A little cornflour may be mixed with the milk to thicken it slightly. This should only be prepared just before being served. Oysters a la Delmonico.—Put loz. of butter into a sauce- pan, work in A table-spoonful of cornflour, then stir in 1 teacupful of thick cream, adding it slowly and stirring over a slow fire. Should it be too thick a little of the strained Oyster liquor should be added. Now put in the yolk of an egg, remove from the fire, add 1 teaspoonful of lemon-juice, stir vigorously, pour it over one dozen Oysters arranged in a bowl, and serve as quickly as possible.