45 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. contents vigorously until a wire whisk for a few minutes. Have ready a flat dish lined with puff paste, or some small tartlet-pans, pour the mixture in, and hake in a very slow oven until done. Very little heat is required for this; it will burn if great care is not taken, therefore it is quite as well to cook the paste first. Orange Tartlets.—(1) Peel off the rinds of one dozen sweet Oranges, quarter them, and take out the core; boil them for about three minutes in a small quantity of sugar and water, and put them on a sieve to drain. Boil the juice that runs from them and the liquor they were boiled in to a syrup. Have ready some shells of pastry baked in patty- pans. Put the Oranges into the hot syrup for a few minutes, but do not let them boil, lay them in the shells of crust, and just before serving pour the syrup over. (2) Boil lib. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar in a small quantity of water until reduced to a thick syrup; pare the yellow rinds thinly off some Oranges, put them into the syrup, and let them infuse for a short time, but with- out boiling again. Butter as many patty-pans as will be required, line them with some good puff paste, fill them with uncooked rice, place in a moderate oven, and bake. With a very sharp knife trim off all the white pith from the Oranges, also core and pick out all the pips. Cut them in halves, put them in a basin, strain their syrup over, and place them in the oven for a few minutes until hot. When the tarts are cooked, empty out the rice, take them out of the tins, put half an Orange in each, and pour some syrup over them. Spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper over a dish, lay the tarts on it, and serve them with cream. (3) Rub loz. of butter in 8oz. of flour, and when smooth mix in 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, the beaten yolks of three eggs, the white of one, and a sufficient quantity of milk to mix the whole into a smooth paste. Roll the paste Jin. in thickness out on a floured board, line some buttered patty-pans with it, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake in a moderate oven. Put the thinly-pared rinds of five or six Oranges into some thick boiling syrup, and let them infuse at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. Trim off all the white pith from the Oranges, core them like apples to remove the pips, cut them in halves, and put them in a stewpan; strain the above syrup over them, and let them heat slowly at the side of the fire, but do not boil them. Empty the rice out of the patties, take them out of the tins, put half an Orange in each case, and pour in a little of the syrup. Arrange the patties on a dish garnished with a folded napkin or a fancy-edged dish-paper, and serve. They are also very nice served cold with cream. (4) Butter some small-sized patty-pans, line them with puff paste, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake, keeping them a light colour. Peel the Oranges, and cut them into slices; put 4oz. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with 1 tea- cupful of water, and boil it to a syrup; then put in 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of minced Orange-peel, and boil the whole for five minutes. Afterwards add 1 liqueur-glassful of brandy with the syrup, pour it while hot over the Oranges, and leave them until cold. When the paste is cooked, empty out the rice, leave them until cold, then fill them with the cold Oranges; ornament tastefully on the top with blanched almonds. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a dish, arrange the tartlets on it, and serve. If they are preferred hot, they should be put in the oven a short time before serving, and decorated with the almonds afterwards. Orange Tonic.—Cut off the rinds from six Seville Oranges, peeling them very thinly, put it into a jar, and pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of brandy. Shake it frequently for a month or so. Drain off the liquor into a bottle, and when it is quite clear and bright it is ready for use. One teaspoonful in a wineglassful of sherry is sufficient to use at a time. Orange Trifle.—(1) Soak ioz. of gelatine in J pint of cold water for four hours, then add to it the grated rind of one Orange and the strained juice of two. Pour in i, pint of boiling water, stir till the gelatine is quite dissolved, putting it over the fire if necessary, then strain it and Oranges—continued. stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs. Stand the bowl the gelatine is strained into in a pan of boiling water over the fire before adding the beaten eggs, stir con- stantly till the mixture thickens, then pour it into another bowl and let it get quite cold ; when it begins to stiffen, mix in 1 pint of cream whipped to a stiff froth. Wet the inside of a mould, pour the trifle in, and set it on ice ; when very cold and well set, turn it out. (2) Peel some Oranges and with a sharp knife remove all the pith and seeds, dividing the fruit into quarters; put them in a basin, strew' plenty of caster sugar over, and leave them for an hour or two in a cold pdace.. Sweeten 1 pint of thick cream to taste with caster sugar, strain in the juice of half a lemon, and flavour it with . Orange brandy; whip the cream vigorously, and as the froth rises skim it off and pilace it on a sieve. Pass the Oranges through a fine wire sieve on to a glass dish, pile the frothed cream on the top, and keep it in a cool place until the time of serving. Orange Water-Ice.—(1) Put the juice of four Oranges and the grated rinds of three into a basin with 1 breakfast- cupful of water, and add the juice of three lemons and 1 paint of syrup*; stir well, then pass it through a fine sieve into a mould ; pack it in ice, freeze (see Ices), and when quite set turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (2) Put 1 teacupful of sugar into 1 gill of boiling water, and when melted add it to Iqt. of the strained juice of Oranges. Pour it into a mould packed in ice, freeze it, and it is ready for use. (3) Put lib. of sugar into a sugar-boiler and make it into a thick syrup with the addition of a little water. Add three Oranges peeled and pulled into quarters, with- out injuring the thin skin more than to extract the pips. Put the grated zest of three more Oranges and their strained juice into a basin. Take the pieces of Orange out of the syrup, p>ut them in a basin on the ice, pour the syrup over the zest and juice, and add 3 punts of water and the juice of one lemon ; pour it into a freezer (see Ices), and when nearly set add the whites of four eggs whipped to a froth, and beat well until it has the consistence of cream. When quite firm, add the pneces of Oranges, taking care not to break them, turn it into glasses or cups, and serve. Orange Whey.—This is a pdeasant drink, and is made by putting the juice of an Orange into 1 pint of milk, and warming it up until curds form ; it must then be strained, and when quite cold is fit for use. Orange Wine.—(1) Put 231b. of loaf sugar into a saucepan with lOgalls. of water, boil it, and clarify with the whites of six eggs. Put the pieel of one hundred Seville Oranges into a howl, pour over the boiling syrup), and add the strained juice of the Oranges and 1 breakfast-cupful (about 6oz.) of fresh yeast. Let it stand for four days or so, pour it into a barrel, bung it loosely, and in a month’s time pour in 4 punts of brandy. Bung it up) securely, let it remain for about three months, and it will be fit for use. The brandy may be omitted. (2) Take off the peel from forty Seville Oranges, cutting it as fine as possible; put it into a bowl, p>our 4gall, of boiling water over, and let it stand for a coupfie of days. Squeeze in the juice through a strainer, wash the remains in lgall. of water to extract all the goodness, add it to the juice, and pour into the bowl with the p)eel. Add 15lb. of loaf sugar, make the quantity of liquor up to 5galls., pour it into a cask, one that has had brandy in it for preference, stir daily for seven days, and then mix in l pint of fresh yeast. When it has fermented for about a fortnight, bung up the cask securely, and in a year’s time it will be in excellent order for drinking. (3) Clean some Seville Oranges by rubbing them gently with a wet cloth; take a sharp knife, pare off the yellow peel very thin, squeeze the Oranges, and strain the juice to get rid of the pips (it should be strained through a rather fine sieve, as some of the pips are extremely small); then measure it, and to each 3galls. of juice add 91b. of sugar, the whites and shells of three eggs, and lgall. of cold water. Crush the egg-shells very small, put them together with the water and the whites of the eggs into a