THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 978 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—con tinned. boned anchovies, the grated peel of half a lemon, and the bruised yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. Cover the meat with this mixture, roll it up, and tie with very wide tape. It is then ready to cook, and may be boiled, roasted, or baked, according to taste. Collops of Cold Mutton.—Cut some very thin collops from a loin of Mutton near the leg, and remove the sinew; sprinkle them over with mace, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, thyme, and shallots, and put them into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy, a little lemon-juice, and a little butter rolled in Hour. Simmer gently on the lire for live minutes. Put them on a dish, and serve at once. Comettes of Mutton.—Mince the cold Mutton and mix with it some oysters or mushrooms also finely minced. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and mix well over the fire; then pour in gradually a sufficient quantity of highly-seasoned stock, and reduce it to a thick sauce. Add the minced ingredients to the sauce, and when hot turn all into a dish and leave until cold. Make some puli paste and roll it out as thinly as possible; divide it into rather small pieces, putting a lump of the mince, about the size of a walnut, on each, and roll them iuto small triangular patties. Brash the patties over with a paste-brush dipped in beateli yolk of egg, and dip them in uncooked vermicelli. Put them into the oven and bake until of a pale golden colour. When cooked, arrange the comettes on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Curried Mutton.—(1) Chop a large onion into small pieces and fry it in a pan with 1 table-spoonful of butter. Mix 1 table-spoonful each of curry powder and Hour in a basin together with I teaspoonful of salt, and when thoroughly incorporated add to the onion in the pan and pour in gradually 1 pint of water or stock. Chop 21b. of lean Mutton into small pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a little fat, fry till of a light brown, add to the curry, and simmer gently until tender. Put the meat on to a dish with a border of rice roun I it, an I serve hot. (2) Cut l|lh. or 21b. of Mutton into small pieces, put them into a frying-pan with a little fat, and fry till light brown. Chop up two onions, fry and stir them in with the meat, add 3 table-spoonfuls of curry powder and 2 table-spoonfuls of curry paste, pour over _ a little gravy made from the bones and trimmings, thicken with a little butter rolled in flour, and cook gently over a moderate lire until done. Turn it out on a dish, and serve with a border of boiled rice. (3) Indian Style.—Cut 21b. of fat Mutton into pieces about ljin. square. Put 5oz. of fat into a stewpan, make it hot, add twelve onions cut up into thin slices, fry them until they are brown, and take them out. Put into the stewpan 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and coriander-seeds, h teaspoonful of ground ginger, j teaspoonful of ground garlic, ten ground peppercorns, five ground cloves, and live or six ground cardamoms. Fry them, stirring con- tinuously, until they are quite brown, add 1 breakfast- cupful of milk thickening, two or three blades each of bay-leaves and lemon-grass, £ teacupful of water, then the cooked onions, after being finely chopped, and the meat. Cover the pot, simmer for from an hour-and-a-half to two hours, take out the blades of lemon-grass, turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve. Curried Mutton Forcemeat Balls.—Put 21b. of Mutton cut from the leg into a mortar and pound it to a pulp, then mix in 1 teaspoonful each of pepper, salt, and chopped sweet herbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of fine breadcrumbs, a well- beaten egg, and sufficient gravy made from the bones and trimmings of the Mutton to form the whole into a mass. Make it into halls about the size of a large walnut, and roll them well in breadcrumbs. Put 4oz. of fat into a frying-pan, make it hot, and add 1 table-spoonful of ground onions, \ table-spoonful each of ground turmeric and chillies, h teaspoonful each of ground ginger and pepper- corns, and | teaspoonful of ground garlic. Fry these until they colour, sprinkling over about 1 table-spoonful of water. Put in the forcemeat balls, sprinkle over 1 dessert-spoonful of salt or sufficient to taste, and fry them until they are Mutton—continued. - brown; pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of Mutton broth, cover the pan, and simmer gently over a clear but slow fire Fig. 1221. Curried Mutton Forcemeat Balls. for about two hours. Turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve with a border of boiled rice. See Fig. 1221. Devilled Mutton.—Cut some cold Mutton into thick slices, trimming off' most of the fat, then gash it across in several places with a sharp knife ; mix 1 teaspoonful of cayenne pepper with 2 table-spoonfuls of black pepper, and rub the mixture well over the slices of Mutton ; lay them on a gridiron and broil over a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Put teacupful of roast-meat gravy into a small saucepan with an equal quantity of port wine, £ table-spoonful each of Worcestershire, Reading, and anchovy sauce, or the strained juice of half a lemon and a small quantity of finely-shred lemon-peel. Place the sauce over the fire until boiling, arrange the pieces of broiled meat on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. It will be found an improvement if the gravy can be slightly flavoured with onion. Devonshire Squab Pie.—Cut about 21b. of the neck of Mutton into chops, shorten the bone, and remove a little of the fat. Take 21b. of sour apples, remove the core, peel, cut them up into slices, and put a layer of them at the bottom of a pie-dish. Sprinkle a little sugar and ground allspice over, then put a layer of chops seasoned with a little finely-minced onion, salt, and pepper, and so on, in layers, until all the meat is used up. Place an ordinary pie-crust on the top of the dish, pour in 1 pint of water or gravy, and bake it in the oven for an-hour- and-a-half. Fillets of Mutton a la Compiegne.—Bone two fillets of Mutton and raise the skin ; lay them in a deep dish, and pour over a marinade made with warmed butter, olive oil, and red wine, seasoned with salt and pepper. Let the meat marinade for three or four hours, turning occa- sionally, so that it may be seasoned equally. Afterwards put it in a stewpan with the marinade, brown over a slow fire, moisten with a small quantity of stock, and keep simmering gently. In about two hours’ time, or when the meat is tender, strain the sauce into a smaller pan in which some flour should have been browned in butter, add a small piece of sugar about the size of a pea, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling. Place the fillets on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with sliced truffles that have been stewed in wine, and serve. Fillets of Mutton ft la Minute.—Put some good strong stock into a saucepan, reduce it quickly to a glaze, and add a slice of fat bacon and as many fillets of Mutton as required. Cover over with a piece of well buttered paper, put the pan over a slow fire, and simmer gently for from ten to twelve minutes, when they will be done and well glazed, but care must be taken to prevent the bacon burn- ing. Put the meat on a dish, add a little stock to the liquor in the pan, warm it up, pour it over the fillets, and serve hot. Fricasseed Mutton.—Cut 21b. of the breast of Mutton into large squares, sprinkle them over with flour and salt, put them into a frying-pan with a little fat or butter, and fry till brown. Then put them into a saucepan with an onion cut in slices, cover with water, and simmer gently until the bones can be easily removed. Skim off the fat from the liquor after it has been strained, put it back in the saucepan, and when boiling put in the boned meat