167 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pies—continued. Pies—continued. Leicestershire Medley Pie.—Any kind of cold roast meat can be used. Cut it into thick slices with an equal quantity of cold fat bacon, and season them well with pounded ginger, salt, and pepper. Cut several cooking apples into quarters, remove their cores, but do not peel them. Put the above ingredients into a Pie-dish in alternate layers, and pour in 4 pint of ale. Cover with a nice dripping crust, and brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg. Bake the pie in a moderate oven for about an hour or a little longer. When cooked, serve either hot or cold. Lent Pie.—Finely chop the yolks of twelve hard-boiled eggs, also twelve peeled and cored apples, and 2lb. of stoned raisins. Mix these together, with 21b. of cleaned currants, lib. of moist sugar, and 1 table-spoonful each of powdered mace, nutmeg, and cinnamon. When these are thoroughly incorporated, add the grated rind and juice of three lemons, 4lb. of finely-shred candied citron, and moisten with 2 tumblerfuls each of white wine and brandy. The mixture can then be either baked or boiled in a basin lined with suet crust. Pie a la Pinanciere.—Butter a pie-mould and line it with short-paste. Mix some sweet herbs with a sufficient quantity of raw-chicken forcemeat, and put a layer of it at the bottom; fill the pie with collops of calves’ or lambs’ sweetbreads that have been fried with sweet herbs, put in another layer of the forcemeat, lay a flat of paste on the top, moisten the edges, and press them together, trim- ming round evenly; with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg brush over tire top of the pie, put a sheet of paper on the top, and bake it for an-hour-and-a-quarter in a moderate oven. Shape out of some veal forcemeat fifteen quenelles, and poacli them in salted water. Lard a lamb’s sweetbread, braise and glaze it with some fowls’ livers, truffles, cock’s combs, and button mushrooms. Prepare a ragout. When cooked, take the pie out of the oven, take off the round of paste and the top layer of forcemeat, slip the Pie on to a hot dish, and pour in it some brown sauce that has been reduced with a little madeira. Arrange the ragofit in the centre, placing the sweetbread on the top, put the quenelles in a circle on the rim, and serve the Pie while hot with a sauceboatful of Madeira sauce. Roman Pie.—Rub 14oz. of butter into 4oz. of flour, pour in sufficient cold water to make a paste, and roll it out rather thin. Take a mould that null hold 2 pints, butter it well, and sprinkle it over until as much crushed vermicelli as will stick to it. Line the bottom and sides with the paste, reserving a piece for the cover. In the meantime break 4oz. of macaroni into small pieces, and boil it in salted water for fifteen minutes; take it out and drain it. Boil a small onion, and chop it up. Cut up into slices, 4oz. of cooked fowl, rabbit, or any other kind of lean meat, put them into a basin with the onion, macaroni, and 4oz. of grated cheese, sprinkle over £• tea- spoonful of salt and \ teaspoonful each of mustard and pepper, and pour in 1 gill of cream or rich milk. Stir all together, fill the mould with it, put on the paste cover, and bake in a moderate oven for fully half-an-hour. Turn it out on to a dish, pour a little brown gravy in through the crust, and serve. Savoury Pie.—Cut about lib. of ox-liver into small pieces ; peel and cut in thin slices Hlb. of potatoes, and peel and slice an onion. Put a layer of the potatoes in a pie-dish, then a layer of the pieces of liver, and over that a few of the slices of onion ; proceed like this until all are used, seasoning witli salt and pepper between each layer, then pour in a little more than 4 pint of water. Rub 4oz. of lard into lib. of flour until quite smooth, then add 1 teaspoonful of baking powder and 4 teaspoonful of salt. Mix in sufficient water to make a stiff paste, roll it out on a floured table, cover the Pie witli it, ornament the top with flower or other shapes, moisten and trim the edges, and bake it in a moderate oven. In two hours’ time take the pie out of the oven, brush the top over with white of egg, put it in the oven to set, and then serve it resting on a folded napkin, and the top garnished here and there with fried parsley (see Fig. 219). Sea Pie.—Cut l£lb. of nice tender steak into small pieces, put them in a stewpau with 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 4 saltspoonful of pepper, and put the stewpan over the fire. Peel two small turnips, two small carrots, and two onions; cut the carrots and turnips into thin slices and put them with the onions in with the steak. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the contents simmering gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Trim the skin and discoloured Fig. 219. Savoury Pie. parts off 6oz. of beef-suet, chop it finely, put it in a basin with fib. of flour, 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, and 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix them well; then pour in gradually sufficient water to form the whole into a light dough. Dredge flour over a paste board, turn the dough on to it, knead it lightly, and divide it into ten equal- sized pieces, which mould into balls witli floured hands, When the meat has been cooked for an-hour-and-a-half, lay the balls in with it, and cook the whole slowly for half-an- hour longer. When cooked, arrange the balls in a circle round a hot dish, pile the meat and vegetables in the centre, and serve. Shepherd’s Pie.—Cut lqt. of cold meat into small pieces, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced salt pork, four large uncooked potatoes, peeled and cut into dice, one finely chopped onion, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Mix them well, sprinkle in plenty of salt and pepper, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Partially boil four large potatoes, and mash them into a paste with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, and 1 pint of flour. Sprinkle some flour on the table or a paste-board and roll the paste out, making it a little larger than the top of the dish. Cover the dish with the paste, doubling the superfluous paste round the inside of the rim of the dish, and make a hole in the top to let out the air. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. When ready to serve, stand the Pie-dish on another dish, and send to table. Shropshire Pie.—Butter a deep pie-dish and line the sides with puff paste. Cut two rabbits into pieces and put them in the pie-dish, intermixed with 21b. of fat pork cut in small pieces, and sprinkle in some pepper and salt. Partially boil the livers of the rabbits; then put them into a mortar with an equal quantity of fat bacon, a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley and sweet herbs, six oysters, and some pepper and salt, and pound them all together. Stir the yolk of an egg in the mixture and shape it into quenelles; put them over the meat, with a few artichoke bottoms cut in dice; grate over all half a nutmeg, and pour in 1 pint of red wine and water, mixed in equal quantities. Cover the pie with a thick flat of puff paste, moisten and press the edges together, ornament it with paste leaves, and make a hole in the top. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it for two hours. Serve either hot or cold. Squab Pie.—Cut some mutton chops off the best end of a neck of mutton, and season them highly with salt and pepper. Line the edges of a pie-dish with short crust, put in the meat in layers, with slices of sweet apples and chopped onions between each layer. Cover the Pie with a flat of the short crust, make a hole in the centre, and bake it. When cooked, lift the cover of the Pie, and