THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 65 Ox-Tongues—continued. The tongue of the horse differs in so many respects besides shape from the tongues we are describing that it would be readily detected. The following receipts, contributed from various authentic sources, provide a great number of different modes of treating the tongue : Baked Ox-Tongue.—(1) Place the tongue in a deep earthen- ware pie-dish, put 3oz. of butter in slices on the top, and cover it completely with a flour-and-water paste, allowing the edges of the paste to hang over the sides of the dish. Bake it in a moderate oven, judging the time of cooking by the size of the tongue. When cooked, remove the paste, skin the tongue, stretch it out on a board, screw it down at the root and tip, and leave it like that until quite cold. When ready, unscrew the tongue, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in liquid glaze, and fix' a frill of paper round it. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a table- napkin over a dish, put the tongue on it, garnish with cold young vegetables, and serve. (2) Put the tongue the night before it is cooked into a bowl with sufficient lukewarm water to cover it and let it soak all night. On the following morning, trim it neatly and scrape it. Stick eighteen or twenty cloves all over the tongue, and boil it until about half cooked, judging the time according to the size of the tongue. Afterwards drain it, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolks of eggs, and strew over plenty of finely-grated breadcrumbs. Put it in a baking-dish and bake until nicely browned, basting it constantly with butter. When cooked, place the tongue on a hot dish, pour round it some rich brown gravy in which has been mixed 1 wineglassful of wine, and serve with red-currant jelly. (3) Cut off the root and superfluous fat from a very fresh Ox-Tongue, braise it, and when cold cut it into thick slices. Put the crumb of a household loaf into a mortar with one anchovy, a little butter, chopped parsley, a few shallots, tarragon-leaves, capers, and chives, and pound them well together. Put half of this mixture in a baking- pan or dish, arrange the slices of tongue on the top, cover it over with the rest of the mixture, pour over a little stock and warmed butter, put the pan (or dish) in a moderate oven, and bake. When done and a light brown take it out of the oven, put the dish or pan it was cooked in on another dish, and serve. Boiled Ox-Tongue.—Put a fresh tongue into a saucepan of water with 2 table-spoonfuls of salt, and boil for three or four hours: take it out, plunge it into cold water for two or three minutes, take out, drain, take off the skin, put it on a dish, and serve either hot or cold. Boiled Ox-Tongue served with Chestnuts. —Place a pickled Ox-Tongue into a bowl of water and soak it, then put it into a saucepan with water to cover and boil for two hours ; take it out, drain it, and remove the skin. Cover the bottom of a saucepan with vegetables cut in slices and a few sweet herbs, place the tongue on topi, and pour in sufficient broth and white wine to moisten to half its height. Cover with paper, set the saucepan on the fire, and cook gently until—the tongue is tender, turning occasionally so as to glaze it on both sides. Have ready a puree of chestnuts, moderately thick, spread it over a dish, and place the tongue on it; add a little more broth to the liquor in the saucepan, boil well, skim and strain into another sauce- pan, reduce it to half-glaze, pour it over the tongue, and serve. Boiled Ox-Tongue with Prunes. Put a fresh Ox-Tongue into a saucepan of salted water and boil until the skin can easily be removed. Skin it, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and add lib. each of prunes and stoned raisins, 4oz. of sugar, and spice to taste; set the saucepan on the fire, and boil well until the whole is done. Put the tongue on a dish, pour over the remainder, and serve. Boiled Ox-Tongue served on a Puree of Sorrel.—Cut on the root of a fresh Ox-Tongue, wash it well, put it into a saucepan of lukewarm water, place it on the fire, and bring the contents gently to the boil. Take the Ox-Tongues—continued. tongue out, drain, put it into another saucepan with a few vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with cold water, and boil for two hours. Take it out, skin, put it into another saucepan lined with vegetables cut in slices, pour over gravy and white wine in equal parts to half its height, cover the pan, put it on the fire, and boil slowly until the liquor is reduced to one half its original quantity. Remove the pan to the side of the fire and cook very gently until the tongue is tender and the liquor reduced to a glaze. The tongue must be turned, so as to glaze it well all over. Cover a dish with a puree of sorrel, place the tongue on it, add a little gravy to the liquor, and boil up at once; skim the liquor, strain it into another saucepan, reduce it to half-glaze, pour it over the tongue and serve. Boiled Pickled Ox-Tongue with Chestnut Puree.—Put a pickled Ox-Tongue into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and ^boil for two hours. Take it out, drain, remove the skin, put it into another saucepan with a few vegetables cut in slices, a bunch of sweet herbs, sufficient broth to moisten it to half its height, and a little white wine. Cover the tongue with a piece of paper, place the pan on the fire, and finish cooking the tongue, turning it over frequently. When done and well glazed put it on a dish on a puree of cooked chestnuts, add a little more broth to the liquor, boil it, skim off all the fat, strain it into another saucepan, reduce to half-glaze, pour it over the tongue, and serve. Boiled Pickled Ox-Tongue with Red Sauce.—Put an Ox- Tongue into brine and let it remain for fourteen days or so. When wanted for use, take it out, drain, and put it into a basin of water for three hours. Take it out, drain again, put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, set the pan on the fire, and as soon as the contents commence to boil remove the pan to the side of the fire and simmer for three hours. Remove the pan from the fire, let the tongue remain in the liquor for thirty minutes, take it out, drain it, trim, and take off the skin. Put it on a dish, and pour over some sauce made as follows: Put 1 breakfast-cupful of vinegar into a saucepan with a few cloves and peppercorns, a bay-leaf, a little thyme and parsley, and reduce it quickly to half its original bulk; then add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of gravy, boil again, and thicken with some potato-flour mixed to a paste with water. Let it remain for five minutes, strain it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, and stir in 2 table- spoonfuls of red-currant jelly and 1 teacupful each of well- washed currants and sultana raisins. Boil for five or six minutes, and it is ready for use. Boiled Smoked Ox-Tongue.—Put a smoked Ox-Tongue into water, and let it soak for a couple of days; then put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for three hours. Take it out, drain, skin it, put it on a dish with a garnish of gherkins and green pickled peppers, and serve. Braised Ox-Tongue.—(1) Soak an Ox-Tongue in warm water until all the blood is extracted and the water quite cold. Take it out, drain, trim off the superfluous fat, and lard the meat with fat bacon. Put it into a braising-pan with a few cloves, carrots, and onions, a little thyme and parsley, two slices of fat bacon or pork, sufficient stock to moisten it, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the pan at the side of the fire, cover it, place hot ashes on the top, and cook slowly for about four hours. Take out the tongue when done, remove the skin, cut it lengthwise into halves, lay them ojien on a dish, pour some tomato or piquant sauce over and serve. (2) Well wash a fresh Ox-Tongue, pass a needle with twine through the tip and root, tie it securely, and bind round with string. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient boiling water to cover, boil gently for two hours, then take it out and diain. Welt 6 table-spoonfuls of butter in a braising-pan, and when quite hot add two onions and half a small carrot and turnip, all finely chopped. Stir veil over the fire for five minutes, remove the pan to the side, cover the tongue with flour, put it in the pan, and brown it first on one side and then on the other. Put For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£•<:., referred to, see under their special heads. F