1001 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. it in a moderate oven. In about three hours’ time, take the pan out of the oven, shake it well, then turn the contents on to a hot dish, dust a small quantity of pow- dered cinnamon over, and serve. Stewed Mutton a la Marseillaise.—Proceed as directed for Stewed Mutton a la Fermiere, hut instead of the other garnishings add 1 pint of stewed tomatoes, four cloves of crushed garlic, two chopped onions, and twelve minced mushrooms. Let this cook for thirty minutes, and serve with chopped parsley sprinkled over all. Stewed Mutton a la Portugaise. -Proceed the same as for Stewed Mutton a la Fermiere, replacing the garnish- ing with three stuffed tomatoes and three timbales of cooked ric^, nicely arranged round the dish. Stewed Muto n a la Sultane. Cut 31b. of Mutton into slices, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to nearly cover, adding a few sliced onions, a small quantity of butter, and a good flavouring of green ginger, crashed coriander-seeds, and salt. Boil well until the meat is perfectly tender, strain off the gravy into a vessel, take out the meat, put it into another saucepan with butter, and warm it up, adding a few cloves and other spices. Parboil lib. of rice in water, put it into a saucepan with the gravy, add a little cinnamon, and cook until done. Colour half of this rice with saffron ground in a small quantity of water, and leave the remaining half white. Put the meat into another saucepan with the coloured rice on one side and the plain on the other, pour over melted butter, cover the pan, and set it at the side of the fire where it will keep warm. Chop up lib. of uncooked meat, put it into a saucepan with melted butter and a few onions cut into slices, add a flavouring of green ginger, salt, and coriander- seeds, pour in sufficient water to keep the meat from burning, and simmer gently until done. Take out the meat, put it into a mortar together with 2oz. of suet, a few finely-chopped onions, the whites of two eggs, and salt and pepper to taste. Work the whole into a paste, shape it into small halls, roll them well in flour, make them warm in a saucepan with butter and a few cloves, add 4oz. of pounded blanched almonds and more spices as desired, and continue to cook until the meat halls are well done. Put the meat and rice on a hot dish, arrange the meat balls round, and serve. Stewed Mutton a la Turque.—(1) Trim off' the fat from the Mutton, and cut the lean into small, equal-sized pieces; put them in a saucepan, season with salt and pepper, pom- in sufficient water to cover, and boil them for twenty minutes. Scald 1 breakfast-cupful of chick-peas, skim the meat liquor, then put in the peas, with two sliced onions. Keep the liquor simmering till the peas are tender and it has reduced to a thick consistency. Line the bottom of a hot dish with thin slices of toast, pour the stew over them, and serve while hot. (2) Cut 31b. of the fillets of Mutton into middling-sized square pieces, and put them in an earthenware vegetable- dish ; add a little clarified butter, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, cover the pan, put it on the fire, and cook the contents for ten or twelve minutes. Take out the meat, add some fresh and young mixed vegetables to the liquor, sprinkle with salt and pepper to taste, and cook them for ten minutes. Take the pan off' the fire, make a hole in the centre of the vegetables, put the meat in this, cover the pan, put it into a moderate oven, and cook the contents for an-hour-and-a-half. Take it out when done, remove all the fat from the liquor, place the pan on a flat dish, and serve very hot. Any vegetables such as green peas, onions, pumpkins, beans (kidney or French), and carrots may be used. Stewed Mutton Chops.—(1) Take some good chops cut from the middle of the loin and trim off nearly all the fat. Then put them into a pot or pan with 1 pinch each of salt and pepper and an onion finely chopped. The onion can be dispensed with if objected to. Put in sufficient water to cover the chops, cover the pan, and put it into a saucepan with water. Place it over a good fire, and let it boil gently for an-hour-and-a-half or until the chops are Mutton—continued. quite tender. When quite done, take out the chops, strain the gravy into a basin, put the basin into cold water, and skim off' the fat, which will rise quickly. Then put the gravy back in a stewpan, add 1 teaspoonful of flour (mixed to a smooth paste with water) to thicken, and boil it up. Put the chops back into the stewing-pot or pan, pour the gravy over, place the pot back into the saucepan, and simmer for ten minutes longer, when it will be ready to serve. (2) The meat of the chops may be minced if preferred, and put into a saucepan with some beef stock previously warmed and seasoned with vegetables, and put at the side of the fire where it may simmer gently for a-quarter-of-an- hour. Stewed Mutton Chops with Tomatoes.—Take some lean chops, broil them before the fire, and put them into a stewpan ; cover the pan with the lid, put it on the fire, and let the chops simmer for a-quarter-of-an-liour, then take them out, put them on a dish, spread butter over, and sprinkle with a little salt and pepper. Cover each one with tomatoes peeled, chopped finely, and seasoned with butter, sugar, salt, and pepper. Stewed Mutton Cutlets.—(1) Take eight or ten cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton, trim off all the fat, leaving l£in. of bone bare at the end of each, or if the cutlets are very small lin. will do. Put them in a fry- ing-pan, slice over them one carrot, one turnip, one onion, and a small piece of celery. Shake over them 1 teaspoon- ful of salt and 1 saltspoonful of pepper, pour over them 1 teacupful of stock, and put the pan over a slow fire. Let the cutlets cook in this for twenty minutes, turning them occasionally so that they may be done evenly. While they are cooking, rub through a sieve lib. of cold mashed potatoes, put them into a saucepan, drop the yolks of two eggs into them, and stir over the fire till dry. When the cutlets are ready, divide this potato paste into as many equal portions as there are cutlets. Flatten each portion on a paste-board with a knife to the thickness of about lin. and roll the cutlets in them, using the piece of bone left bare as a handle. When they are all done, lay them on a lightly-greased baking-tin, brush over with a little milk or beaten egg, and brown them quickly in a hot oven. While they are in the oven, stir into the pan they were cooked in loz. of butter and |oz. of flour, add to tliis by degrees teacupfuls of cold water, and stir Fig. 1239. Stewed Mutton Cutlets. till it boils, then add 6 drops of caramel, 1 dessert-spoonful of ketchup, and 1 dessert spoonful of Worcestershire sauce, and let it boil for two minutes longer. Now arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with boiled green peas (see Fig. 1239), and pour over the whole of the strained brown sauce from the frying-pan. Serve at once. (2) Cut rather thick cutlets off a neck of Mutton, and lard them with thin fillets of bacon ; put them in a brais- ing-pan with a sliced carrot, one onion, a few cloves, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour in sufficient gravy to cover, and stew them gently until quite tender. When cooked, take the cutlets out, strain and skim the gravy, and boil it until somewhat reduced. When cold, trim the cutlets neatly, put them in the reduced gravy, and heat them gradually. Cut a block of bread the shape of a pyramid, and fry it a pale golden brown in butter. Partially boil some new carrots and turnips, then cut them into small pieces ; put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Place the block of bread in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round it, garnish with the carrots and turnips, pour the gravy round, and serve.