THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 1000 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. before until the dish is full, moistening with about 1 pint of water; cover the pie with a rather thick ilat of puff paste, trim it off' round the edges, moisten them with water, and press together. Make a small hole in the top of the cover, roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut out some imitation leaves, damp them underneath with a paste- brush dipped in a little water, and arrange them taste- fully on the top of the pie. Bake the pie for two-hours- and-a-half in a good oven. (2) Cut the best end of a neck of Mutton into chops, and remove all the fat. Pare eight apples, cut out the cores, slice them, put a layer of them at the bottom of a dish with a little chopped onion interspersed, place a layer of the chops on these, and so on until the dish is quite full; mix with the apples 2oz. of sugar, and salt and pepper with the meat. Cover the dish with a crust made of light paste, put it in the oven, and bake until done; take it out and serve hot. Stewed Breast of Mutton.—Bone and score a breast of Mutton, season it well with cayenne, black pepper, and salt, and put it into a saucepan with a good supply of gravy that has had the fat skimmed off; boil until tender, and place on a dish. Slice a few gherkins, and add them, together with 1 dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, to the gravy; boil up again, and pour over the Mutton when ready. Stewed Leg of Mutton in Gravy.—Select a small leg of Mutton and put it into a saucepan with a calf’s foot, eight carrots and twelve onions cut in slices, and a little salt (a knuckle of veal may be used instead of the calf’s foot if desired). Pour in sufficient water to cover, put the pan over a slow lire, and let it simmer gently. When the Mutton is about half-done and the meat begins to shrink from the bone, take it out and put it on a dish to keep hot. Put the pan on a quick fire, boil until the liquor is reduced to about 3 pints, then strain it through a sieve, squeezing the veal and vegetables to extract as much as possible. Let it cool, remove the fat, pour it back into the saucepan, and put hi the Mutton; place the cover over the pan and boil (not too quickly) for two hours, taking care to prevent it sticking to the bottom or burning. When done, put it on a deep dish, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. Stewed Loin of Mutton.—(1) Remove the bone from a loin of Mutton which should have been hanging for some time, cut off the skin and all the fat from the inside, then put it into a stewpan with sufficient rich broth to cover, and stew gently until done and of a good brown colour. Now add 1 wineglassful of port wine, 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup, a few vegetables cut up, and cook until all are hot. Serve the loin on a dish with the vege- tables for garnish and some of the liquor poured over, and the remainder in a tureen. (2) Remove the skin from a loin of Mutton, bone it, and roll it; put it in a stewpan with li pints of water, a piece of butter, sweet herbs, and an onion or two; when it has stewed for nearly four hours, strain the gravy, add 2 table- spoonfuls of red wine, and serve very hot, with jelly sauce. Stewed Marinaded Under-Fillets of Mutton.—Cut a dozen under-fillets of Mutton, flatten them with a cutlet- bat, and remove all the skin and gristle. Cut them into long shapes like pears, lard them with pieces of fat bacon, and put them in a marinade for a day or so. Take them out, drain on a cloth, and put them in a buttered saute- pan ; pour over some veal stock or mirepoix, cook them thoroughly, and glaze, l’ut a few sliced mushrooms in the centre of a dish, place the fillets round, pour over them a little poivrade sauce, and serve with more sauce in a sauceboat. Stewed Mutton.—(1) Remove the bone from a leg of Mutton, cut the meat into large squares, put them into a basin, sprinkle with salt and pepper, add a bunch of sweet herbs, pour in 1 wineglassful of vinegar, and let them remain for a few hours to soak. Take them out, drain them, put them into a stockpot with lOoz. of fat bacon chopped small and melted, cook gently for twenty minutes, pour over the marinade liquor, and add two bay-leaves and a few cloves Mutton—continued. of garlic. Let it cook for five minutes longer, then draw the pot to the side of the fire, cover it with a piece of paper with a plate on the top, and stew gently until the meat is done. When ready, take out the meat, put it on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, boil it up once, pour it through a fine sieve over the meat, and serve with a dish of rice. The fat from a sheep’s tail, which is used by the Turks instead of lard or butter, can be substituted for the bacon-fat. (2) China Chiloe.—Finely chop sufficient meat from the neck or from a leg of Mutton to fill 2 breakfast-cups ; put it into a stewpan with two onions, one lettuce, 2 break- fast-cupfuls of green peas, salt and pepper to taste, and about 1 teacupful of cold water; bring to the boil, add 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, and simmer gently for about two hours. Serve hot with boiled rice for garnish. Stewed Mutton a la Fermiere.—Put into a saucepan 31b. of breast or shoulder of Mutton cut into square pieces, with loz. of butter, and six small onions. Cook for ten minutes or until a good golden colour. Add 3 table-spoon- fuls of flour, mix well together, and moisten with 3 pints of light broth or water, stirring continually while boiling. Season with 1 good table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, and J teaspoonful of nutmeg, adding two carrots and two turnips, cut in square pieces, a bouquet of sweet herbs, and one crushed clove of garlic. Cook over a moderate fire for thirty minutes; put in J pint of cooked Lima or haricot beans, and let the whole cook again for fifteen minutes. Skim off' the fat well, remove the bouquet, and serve. Stewed Mutton a la Jardiniere.—(1) Wash and peel two turnips, scrape and wash one carrot, wash and trim one head of celery, and divide it lengthwise ; peel one onion, and lay all these, together with five or six sprigs of cauli- flower,' in cold water while the meat is being prepared. Take about 51b. of neck of Mutton in one piece and fry it in some good dripping till lightly browned on both sides. Then put it with the vegetables into a good deep saucepan, barely cover with cold water, and let it stew for one hour, reckon- ing from the time that the water first begins to simmer. At the end of the hour take out the vegetables, and put them away to cool. If the water in the saucepan does not cover the meat, add enough boiling water to cover it, and let it stew gently for two hours longer. Pour oft' all the gravy but i pint, put on the saucepan-lid, and place it where it will keep hot. Strain the gravy that has been poured off into a basin, and set it in a pan of cold water to make the fat rise. When the fat has risen to the top, skim the gravy, pour it into a saucepan with 1 pint of tinned tomatoes, and let it boil fast, skimming occasionally. When it is reduced to half its original quantity, season with salt and pepper to taste. Blend 1 dessert-spoon- ful of cornflour to a smooth paste with a little cold water, and pour this into the gravy and tomatoes. Keep stirring till it boils, then pour all into the saucepan with the meat and let it simmer. Cut the vegetables that were laid aside .to cool into very small pieces. Put loz. of dripping into a saucepan over the fire, and when it .is quite hot put the pieces of vegetables in on top of it. Shake them together till veiy hot, take up the meat, put it on a large hot dish, pour the gravy and tomatoes over it, arrange the vegetables round, and serve. (2) Cut the Mutton from the loin into small pieces, and lay them in an earthen stewpan that has a closely-fitting lid. Cut two or three egg-plant fruits into thick slices, nib them with salt, and let them remain until the bitter juice, is extracted, then drain and lay them over the meat. String and cut the ends off two or three dozen okras, also a small quantity of French beans, peel and slice a vegetable marrow, half-a-dozen onions, and cut four green tomatoes in four crosswise. Lay the vegetables in alternate order over, the meat, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, extract the juice from lib. of tomatoes, strain, and pour it over the other ingredients; season with salt and pepper, and if the meat is not very fat a small quantity of dissolved butter can be added. Put the lid on the pan, solder round the edges with flour-and-water paste to keep it air-tight, and place