135 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, iSauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. quarter-of-anhour; when done, shake the flour out, take the paste out of the mould, and put it back in the oven to dry and colour. Put lOoz. of caster sugar in a sauce- pan with | pint of water, and the thin peel of a lemon ; peel ten Peaches, put them in with the syrup, and boil them till tender. Fill the paste case with them, and serve. Peach Fritters.—Skin some ripe but firm Peaches, cut them into halves, and take out the stones. Put the Peaches in a bowl with some caster sugar and toss them about well, taking care not to break them. Put lib. of finely-sifted flour into a basin and stir in h pint of water gradually with a wooden spoon. Beat the "whites of three eggs till very stiff, mix them with the batter, and add l£oz. of -warmed butter. Put a lump of lard in a frying pan, make it warm, but not too hot, dip each piece of Peach separately in the batter, then fry them in the lard. When lightly browned, drain the Peaches on a cloth, lay them on a baking-dish, the cut side downwards, sift some caster sugar over, and glaze them under the salamander. Arrange the Peaches in a pyramid on a folded napkin placed on a hot dish, and serve. Peach Ice.—(1) Peel 3 pints of ripe yellow Peaches, cut half of them into pieces, the size of cherries, and put the other half in a preserving-pan with lib. of preserving- sugar and lqt. of water. Crack the stones, put the peeled kernels in, and let them simmer over a slow fire for a few minutes. Then mash the fruit with the back of a wooden spoon; mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of bright red currant jelly, then pass all, with the exception of the kernels, through a fine hair sieve. Put the prepar- ation in a freezer (see Ices), and when frozen, beat in the whipped whites of four eggs and add the pieces of Peaches. Line some moulds with Peach ice-cream, and fill the centre with the Peach ice. Put the lids on the moulds, embed Peaches—continued. them in ice, and leave them till ready to serve. Then turn the contents on to a glass dish. (2) Peel and stone a few ripe Peaches, and pass their pulp through a fine hair sieve. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of the puree into a basin, and mix with it the same quantity of vanilla sugar. Then stir in f pint of cold water and the strained juice of three oranges and one lemon. In ten minutes’ time pass the preparation through a fine hair sieve, put it in a freezer (see Ices), and work it in the ice till smooth and frozen. Mix a few drops of carmine in 1 wineglassful of maraschino and 2 table- spoonfuls of the preparation, then mix all together. When frozen, take the ice up with a table-spoon and build it rock shape on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve. Peach Jam.—(1) Procure ripe clingstone Peaches, peel them, crack the stones, and blanch the kernels. Put the kernels in a mortar, and pound them well. Put the skins and broken stones in a pan with twice the quantity of water required for the jam, and boil it until reduced to half the quantity. Afterwards strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve. Put the Peaches in a preserving-pan with the pounded kernels, and for every pound of fruit put in lib. of preserving sugar, and 1 teacupful of the liquor from the stones, &c. Boil the mixture, keeping it well stirred until reduced to a stiff consistency. Fill some jars with the jam and let them stand until the following day. Then sift a small quantity of caster sugar over each, cover them with rounds of paper that have been dipped in beaten egg, and tie round with twine. Keep the jars in a dry store cupboard for use. (2) Put some Peaches, skinned and freed of their stones, in a preserving-pan, with an equal weight of preserving sugar, and boil for fifteen minutes. Skim it, turn it into jam pots, and leave it till cold. Dip some rounds of white paper, cut to fit the jars, in brandy, put one on the top of each jar, cover them with bladder, and tie down. Keep the jars in a cool dry place. (3) Allow for some unripe Peaches an equal quantity of caster sugar. Peel the fruit, cut it into quarters, and remove the stones. Put it in a preserving-pan with the sugar, and let it stand all night. On the following morn- ing, put the pan over the fire and boil the contents until very tender, and the juice will jelly. When ready, turn the preserve into jars. Two or three days later, put in each jar a round of white paper that has been saturated with brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down tightly. Pack them in a dry store cupboard for use. Feach Jelly.—(1) Procure some large Peaches, not too ripe, wipe them well, and take out the stones, cut the Peaches in quarters, and put them in a covered jar. Crack the stones, cut the kernels into small pieces, and put them in with the Peaches. Set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, taking care it does not come over the top, and let it simmer till the Peaches are soft. Strain them through a jelly-bag to extract all the juice; measure the juice, and put it in a preserving-pan with lib. of loaf sugar for every pint of juice. Boil them for twenty minutes, and skim carefully. Turn the jelly into glasses, and when cold, lay a round of paper that has been dipped in brandy on each, put another paper on the top, and tie down. They will keep in good condition for some tune. (2) Soak lioz. of gelatine in j pint of cold water. Peel, cut in halves, and stone a-dozen-and-a-half ripe Peaches, putting them into a stone jar with sufficient cold water to cover. Crack about a fourth part of the stones, bruise the kernels, and put them into the jar with the Peaches. Cover the jar, not tight, but so that the steam may escape, put it over the fire in a saucepan of warm water, and cook the Peaches till they break in pieces. Put the soaked gelatine into a large bowl, together with the grated rind of one lemon and the juice of two, and lib. of powdered white sugar. Strain the Peaches, scalding hot, upon the gelatine through a colander or very coarse sieve, and stir till the gelatine is quite melted. Then strain through a flannel bag without either shaking or squeezing it. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water and pour the jelly into it. Let it stand in a cold place all night and turn it out next day on a glass dish. Peaches—continued. of syrup; stir it over the fire till boiling, adding gra- dually a little potato flour. When thick, pass it through a fine hair sieve, add 1 wineglassful of kirschenwasser and a stick of vanilla, and keep it hot in the bain-marie. Butter a flawn-mould, line it with short-paste, put a buttered paper round, and bake it in a slack oven; when baked, take the buttered paper out, spread some apricot marmalade all round the inside of the paste, take it out of the mould, and stand it on a dish. Warm the Peaches gradually, but do not boil them. Drain, and pile them inside the crust, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in Peach marmalade, arrange some preserved fruits of various colours over them, mix together in equal quan- tities some kirschenwasser and syrup and pour it over them. Put the Peach puree in a sauceboat and serve it with the Peaches. Fig. 183. Peaches for Dessert. (3) Butter the inside of a mould and line it with a good short-paste, pressing it in to take the shape of the mould. Pinch the paste that rises above with the paste-pinchers, ■fill if. ■vvit.li flmiv fl.ml 1 iD.lcp. in n. mrwlnvQt.o nrmn «