51 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Orris—continued. Orris-root Caramels.—Mix well together 21b. of the best sugar, loz. of gelatine dissolved in § breakfast-cupful of cold water, Joz. of pure paraffin wax, \ pint of cream, and lib. of glucose (if the caramels are made in the summer- time §lb. of glucose will be sufficient). Put this mixture over the .fire, and stir it constantly till when a little is tried in cold water it makes a ball if rolled, between the fingers; stir in then 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered Orris-root and a small quantity of sweet almonds blanched and grated. Pour the syrup into well-buttered tins, let it cool, cut it into fin. squares, and wrap each one separately in oiled paper. ORTOLANS (Fr. Ortolans; Ger. Fettammern; Ital. Ortolani; Sp. Hortelanos).—This is the name given to a European singing-bird (Emberiza hortidana) about the size of a lark. It has black wings, and frequents the hedges of gardens, deriving its name from the Latin hortulanus—a, gardener. It is exceedingly rare, and when fat is esteemed as a table delicacy. The Ortolan is some- times known as the garden bimting. Broiled Ortolans en Fapillote.—Rub with melted butter or salad-oil as many sheets of paper as there are birds, and cut them just large enough to double over the birds and turn in all round the edges like a hem, in order to preserve the fat and the trail while the birds are being cooked. Carefully pluck and singe the birds, cut off the beaks and claws, skin the heads and necks, and wipe them with a clean cloth ; twist the feet, lay the heads close to the sides of the birds, and then enclose the birds in the paper. After the birds are in the paper, put them on a gridiron over a very gentle fire, and broil for about five minutes or Fig. 66. Broiled Ortolans en Papillote. until they swim in their own fat. Serve them at once in the papers on a plate covered with watercress (see Fig. 66). The papers are not to lie removed until just before eating the birds. Fried Ortolans.—(1) Draw and singe twenty-four Ortolans, put them in a frying-pan with some melted bacon and a couple of bay-leaves, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and fiy them over a brisk fire until done, turning them 'frequently. Strain off the fat, add some vinegar and melted glaze, and reduce the liquor quickly over a brisk fire. Take out the bay-leaves, add a salpifon of lean smoked ham steeped in water and a little Spanish sauce reduced with white wine, and warm the ham without boiling the liquor. Arrange the birds in a pile in the centre of a dish, pour the sauce over, and serve with a garnish of small quenelles. (2) Prepare and truss some Ortolans as for roasting, dip them into well-beaten egg, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry. When done, take them out, drain off the fat, and serve them on pieces of toast or fried breadcrumbs mixed with a few chopped mushrooms. Ortolans a la Ferigordine.—Prepare the birds as for roasting, cover them with slices of fat bacon, put them in a saucepan, set in the bain-marie, add a little stock mixed with lemon-juice, baste them with this, and cook them. Scoop out the centre from as many truffles as there are birds, put them into a saucepan with sufficient champagne to boil them in, take them out when done, and stuff them with a little game puifie. Put them into the saucepan with the Ortolans, warm them all up for a few seconds, | Ortolans—continued. arrange them on a dish, and serve with a little of the sauce to moisten them. Ortolans a la Provenpale.—Procure as many large truffles as there are birds to be cooked, and make some French forcemeat. Pierce a hole in the centre of each truffle and stuff it with the forcemeat. Remove the feet and heads from the birds, and season them w’ell with salt and pepper; lay the birds on their backs on the truffles, put them in a deep stewpan with h pint of port wine and about the same quantity of clear veal stock, and cover with slices of bacon. Put the lid on the pan, and stew the birds gently. When they are cooked, take them and the truffles out and keep them hot; strain the sauce through a line sieve, skim off all the fat, pour it into a small clean stewpan, and boil until reduced to half its original quantity. Mix with the sauce 1 breakfast-cupful of brown Spanish sauce, and boil it again until somewhat reduced. Put some pieces of toast on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, put the birds and truffles on them, and serve. Ortolans a la Sirene Franqaise.—Truss the birds with- out drawing them. Mince finely a small quantity of lemon- thyme, basil, chervil, chives, and twice the quantity of button-mushrooms, squeeze a little lemon-juice over them, and season with salt. Brush the birds over with a paste- brush dipped in warmed butter, and roll them at once in the seasoning. Butter the interior of as many paper cases as there are birds, and place a bird in each, covering them with a sheet of buttered paper; put the cases on a baking-sheet, on a bed of fine charcoal or rice, and put them in the oven. Meanwhile boil three or four eggs hard, and when peeled remove the wiiites and pass the yolks through a tine wire sieve. When cooked, take the top paper off the birds, strew a little of the yolk of egg over, and put a small round of lemon on each. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, arrange the cases of birds on it, and serve. Garnishing here and there with groups of fried parsley is an improvement to the general appear- ance of the dish. Ortolans a la Toulouse.—In the south of France, and especially in Toulouse, where these birds are plentiful and well fattened, they kill them by putting their heads into vinegar, which the native cooks allege improves the flesh. Pluck, draw, and slightly singe one dozen Ortolans, rub them over with lemon, and pass a skewer through them. Cover well with melted butter mixed with lemon-juice, sprinkle over breadcrumbs, and roast them on the spit or in front of a clear fire for seven or eight minutes, basting frequently with the fat that drops from them. Put them on a dish, sprinkle a little salt over them, baste with the drippings, and serve with a garnish of slices of lemon. Ortolans in Cases.—(1) Pluck, draw, and singe one dozen Ortolans, and put them into small cases masked with perigueux sauce, putting their heads through a hole cut for the purpose. Place them in a quick oven for a few minutes, or they may be salamandered, and viien they are done damp them with a little more of the perigueux and serve. Care must be taken in drawing them to take out their gizzards. (2) Pluck, singe, and bone one dozen Ortolans. Put 11b. of chopped bacon into a frying-pan, and add some marjoram, parsley, thyme, peppercorns, two bay-leaves, two chopped shallots, and a little salt. Place the pan on the fire and fry them brown, add 8oz. of calf’s liver, and fry this brown also. Put this mixture into a mortar, pound it, pass it through a line sieve back into the mortar, and pound again, with the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs. When this is thoroughly mixed, add six finely-chopped truffles, stuff' the birds with it, and put them into oiled paper cases ; brush them over with oil or butter, and bake in a quick oven for a few minutes. Put the bones into a saucepan with l breakfast-cupful of stock or gravy, add 1 wine- glassful of port wine, and boil until the liquor is reduced to a teacupful. Arrange the birds on a dish, pour a little of the sauce over, and serve. Ortolans in a Croustade.—Cut off the legs and necks of the birds, and remove the gizzards; season them with salt, e 2