THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 86 For detail* respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pancakes—continued. (2) Take 1 pint each of thick and thin milk, or lqt. of sour milk; add a little salt, 1 teaspoonful of ammonia, and sufficient flour to make a hatter. The thinner the batter more tender the Pancakes will he, when cooked. Half a teacupful of cream improves them. Put 1 spoonful at a time into a pan of hot butter, and fry. Butter while hot, and serve with sugar, honey, or molasses. A sauce made by mixing 1 teacupful of cream with 1 table-spoonful of sugar and J teaspoonful of ground ginger, and served with the Pancakes, is an improvement. (3) Mix smoothly with 1 pint of fresh milk a sufficient quantity of flour to make a moderately thick batter, and strain it through a fine sieve. Beat four eggs well to- gether with 1 wineglassful of pale brandy, mix them with the batter, and add 1 teaspoonful of powdered ginger, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Beat the whole well together for a few minutes, then fry in small quantities in boiling butter. As the Pan- cakes are cooked, drain and roll them, put them on a hot dish over which lias been spread a fancy dish-paper, dust with caster sugar, and serve. (4) Break three eggs in a basin and whip them together with 3 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour; then beat in J wineglassful of orange-flower water and 1 scant table- spoonful each of olive oil and pale brandy, adding 1 salt- spoonful of salt; next stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of milk to bring the batter to the proper consistency. Put a large piece of butter or lard in a frying-pan, and when it melts fry the batter in it in small quantities. As the Pancakes are cooked, drain, roll, and pile them on a dish over which has been spread a fancy dish-paper, and serve witli sugar. (5) Break four eggs into a large basin and beat them together with 1 table-spoonful of yeast, 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little powdered cin- namon. Mix in another basin as much flour and milk as will bring the whole to the proper consistency. When quite smooth, stir in the other ingredients, cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to work for three or four hours. When ready to serve, fry the batter in small quantities in a little butter. Arrange the Pancakes on a hot dish, sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve with some oranges cut in halves on a separate plate. (6) Beat four eggs together with 1 teacupful of olive oil, J teacupful of thick cream, and 1 pinch of salt. Put Jib. of sifted flour into a basin, make a hollow in the centre, then gradually mix in the beaten eggs, stirring with a wooden spoon till it forms a smooth paste, with- out being too consistent, and rather light; then add 1 wineglassful of brandy. Put 1 table-spoonful of clarified butter into a Pancake-pan, make it hot, then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of the paste. Spread the paste over the bottom of the pan, and turn the pan about continually to disengage the Pancake as soon as it sets; turn it over quickly, tossing it for a minute, then slip) it on to a hot dish. Use up the remainder of the paste in the same way, keeping the Pancakes hot till all are cooked, then dust some caster sugar over, and serve. (7) Berlin.—Dissolve IJoz. of dry yeast in 1 breakfast- cupful of warm milk, then stir it gradually into Jib. of flour, cover with a cloth, and set it in a warm place to rise. Put lib. of flour in a bowl, stand it where it can get warm, and add 4oz. of sugar, J table-spoonful of pounded bitter almonds the grated peel of lialf-a-lemon, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir in the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs and sufficient warm milk to make a light dough; then mix in the sponge. Knead the whole thoroughly, mixing in at the same time Jib. of warmed butter. The dough should be of the con- sistency of bread dough, and it should be kneaded until small bubbles appear. Cover the dough with a cloth, let it partly rise in a warm temperature, then knead, and let it rise again. Divide the dough into halves, place one half on a floured paste-board, roll it out to about Jin. in thickness, then- with a round tin-cutter 2Jin. in diameter cut it into cakes. Put a small pile of any kind of preserve in the centre of each cake, and lay them on a floured baking-tin. Dredge more flour over the paste-board, put Pancakes—continued. the remainder of the dough on it, roll it out, and divide it into cakes, as before, making them all of one size and thickness; lay the rounds on the top of those with the preserve, and moisten and press them round the edges. Cover the cakes with a cloth, and keep them in a warm place until slightly risen. Put about 2oz. of butter in a frying-pan, make it very hot, then put in as many cakes as possible, and fry them over a brisk fire, turning them when browned on one side and browning the other. Cook all the Pancakes in this way, adding more butter to the pan when required, but taking care that it is hot before the cakes are put in. Drain the Pancakes thoroughly on a cloth and leave them until cold. Beat the whites of two eggs with a small quantity of lemon-juice and suffi- cient caster sugar to make a creamy icing. Brush each of the Pancakes over with a paste-brush dipped in the icing, and place them in a cool oven. When the icing is quite dry on the Pancakes, arrange them in a pile on a dish over which has been spread an ornamental dish- paper, and serve. (8) Prepare a batter as for ordinary Pancakes, but make it into a stiff paste by the addition of more flour. Arrange the cakes on a large griddle, and cook them over a clear fire. When done spread each one with butter and sugar, pile them up on a hot plate, cut them into quarters, and serve. (9) French.—Put into a pan 4oz. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of pounded ratafias, the thin rind of a lemon, and 2oz. of pounded sugar ; mix in separately three eggs, add the yolks of three more, one at a time, and mix well; pour in a little milk, J pint of cream, and a little orange-flower water, and beat well to the thickness of cream. Put some clarified butter into a frying-pan, melt it, and pour it away so that the pan only is greased ; then put in the batter for the Pancakes in small quantities and fry' them. The Pan- cakes should be made very thin. When all are done, leave 1 table-spoonful of the batter at the bottom of the pan, add to it a little orange-flower water, sugar, a small quantity of pounded ratafias, and the yolk of an egg; mix this with cream, put it into a sauceboat, and serve as a sauce. (10) Weigh two eggs, then take the same weight each of flour, caster sugar, and butter. Warm the butter and beat it to a cream ; then mix with it the flour and sugar, and when quite smooth stir in 1 teacupful of milk and the two eggs. Butter some patty-pans, pour the prepara- tion into them, and bake for twenty minutes in a quick oven. When cooked, turn them on a hot dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve with lemons cut in halves on a separate plate. (11) Put 2oz. of sifted flour into a basin with 3oz. of caster sugar, a few macaroons or bitter almonds, 1 tea- spoonful of orange-flower water, 1 pinch of salt, the yolks of five eggs, J pint of milk, and 1 pint of cream, and mix well. Butter the inside of an omelet-pan, put a little of the mixture in at a time, and cook on one side only. When all the Pancakes are done, sprinkle caster sugar over, and brown them under a salamander. Arrange tastefully on a silver dish, and serve. (12) Beat a dozen eggs thoroughly, strain them, and mix into them lqt. of cream, a grated nutmeg, Jib. of sugar, 2 wineglassfuls of wine, and enough flour to make it not quite as thick as ordinary Pancake batter. Put a frying- pan over the fire; when pretty hot, wipe it with a clean cloth, and pour in batter enough for a thin Pancake. Keep turning it to prevent it from burning. (13) Mix six well-beaten eggs with 1 pint of cream, then stir in Jib. of caster sugar, half-a-grated nutmeg, and sift in while stirring sufficient flour to make a thick batter. Make a frying-pan hot, wipe it over with a cloth, fry a small quantity of the batter at a time, lightly browning it on both sides; then sift caster sugar over the Pancakes, and serve with lemons cut in halves. (14) Beat well the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four, add to them by degrees Jib. each of powdered white sugar and clarified fresh butter, 1J pints of cream heated lukewarm, 1 wineglassful of spirits of wine, and 2 table-spoonfuls of fresh yeast; mix with this as much sifted