TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 115 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, sec under their special hcad6. Paste and Pastry—continued. spoonful of salt, and 1 gill of cold water. Knead the salt, butter, and water well for two minutes, then incorporate the flour gradually, which will take three minutes more, and knead sharply with the hands. Detach the Paste from the table, roll it into a ball, then press it again on the table in different directions for two minutes; remove again from the table, flour the table slightly, lay the Paste over, and with the fingers of the right hand press down the Paste in the centre, and with the left bring up the edges all round to the centre; repeat this three times, and when finished the Paste must have its original shape. Lay it on a dish, cover with a towel, set it in a cool place for twenty minutes, and it will be ready for use. (3) Put lib. of flour into a basin with Alb. of dripping or lard and dripping mixed; work the dripping lightly into the flour with the tips of the fingers, keeping your hands out of the flour as much as possible. When properly mixed the flour should resemble fine breadcrumbs or coarse meal. Then mix in quickly just sufficient water to make it to a stiff Paste. Flour the hands, take the Paste out of the bowl, and put it on a paste board that has been dredged with a little flour; work it a little with your lingers, still keeping the hands from it as much as possible. Flour the rolling- pin and roll the Paste out three times, folding it up twice, and cover the pie. If it is a fruit pie brush over with milk or the beaten white of an egg and dredge powdered white sugar over it. (4) Make lib. of flour quite hot in the oven. Put jib. of butter and j pint of water in a saucepan over the fire, and let it melt. When the flour is hot, mix into it, with the blade of a knife, jib. of cold butter; then pour the water and melted butter out of the saucepan into the middle of the flour, stir it well together with the blade of the knife, and work it a little with your fingers. Flour the rolling-pin and paste-board, put the Paste on the board, roll it out once, put it over the pie, and bake immediately. (5) Put lib. of Hour on a pasteboard with 4oz. of caster sugar; cut 1 Ooz. of butter into slices, put it in the flour, and chop it all well together with a knife. Beat the yolks of six eggs together with 1 wineglassful of brandy, and mix them into the flour gradually, working it until quite smooth. Dredge flour over the paste board, and roll the Paste out thin; fold it over, beat it with the rolling- pin, roll it out, fold it twice, and roll it out again. The Paste is then ready for use. (6) First weigh the necessary quantity of flour and put it into a large bowl, keeping back as much as will more than half fill the flour-dredger; then put into the Hour in the bowl fib. of lard, butter, or dripping to every pound of flour, and work it lightly into the flour with the tips of your fingers, keeping the hands out of the flour as much as possible. The butter, lard, or dripping, whichever is used, must be thoroughly incorporated with the flour so that it resembles fine breadcrumbs or coarse meal in texture. Then mix in quickly barely enough cold water or milk to form a stiff Paste. Dredge a little flour on the paste-board, and flour the fingers; then take the Paste out of the bowl, put it on the paste-board, work it a little with the fingers, still keeping the hands from it as much as possible, and roll the Paste out three times with a floured rolling-pin, folding it up twice, and put it on the tart. (7) Put lib. of Hour into a basin, sprinkle over it 1 saltspoonful of salt, and mix well 'with it All), of finely- chopped suet. Stir in then quickly just enough water to form it to a stiff Paste, dredge the rolling-pin and paste- board with flour, put the Paste on the board, work it a little with your fingers, and then roll it out. Besides Puff Paste and Short-Paste, there are a few others especially recommended for certain reasons, which are explained in the following receipts: They may be regarded as variations of one or both of the two previously described. For other Pastes, such as Brioche, Choux, Fran- gipane, Macaroni, FTouille, Potato, Rice, &c., see those headings. Paste and Pastry—continued. Chopped Paste.—Put lqt. of pastry-flour, 2 breakfast-cup- fuls of butter, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of salt on a chopping-board and chop them all together till well mixed; add j breakfast-cupful of iced water, and continue chopping. When thoroughly mixed, lift the Paste, sprinkle the board with flour, then roll the Paste out thinly on it. The Paste is better when stood upon ice for a time, as it should be hard before used. Crisp Paste.—Sift jib. of flour and 2oz. of powdered white sugar; and mixing them together, work them into a paste with the well-beaten yolks of two eggs. Use a wooden spoon to mix the Paste, touching it as little as possible with the hands. This Paste may be used in making fruit tarts; it should be baked in a hot oven, and imme- diately before putting it into the oven should be brushed over with well-beaten white of egg and sprinkled with powdered white sugar. Croquante Paste.—Mix Jib. of caster sugar with lib. of flour; then stir in a sufficient number of beaten yolks of eggs to form a smooth Paste. When well kneaded, roll it out to the specified shape and about jin. thick. Rub the shape with butter and press the Paste closely over it to cut the pattern well through, then lay it on a baking- tin, dip a paste-brush in the beaten white of egg, and brush the surface of the Paste over; sprinkle with caster sugar and bake it in a slow oven. When cooked, remove it carefully from the tin, and cover with jam. Geneva Paste.—Rub lib. of fresh butter into lib. of finely- sifted dried flour until the butter is entirely absorbed, then work in lib. of caster sugar and jib. of blanched and pounded almonds, adding three bitter almonds to the quantity and a little salt. Mix with sufficient beaten egg to make a stiff Paste. This is useful for making Genevese and other fancy Pastry. Genoa Paste.—Sift Alb. of flour on to a table, make a hollow in the centre, put in 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar and four eggs, mix thoroughly, and afterwards work in 4oz. of melted butter. Let it stand for a few minutes, and it is then ready and may be used for making many kinds of fancy Pastiy. Some varieties of this Paste are given under GENOESE PASTRY. German Paste.—(1) Rub Alb. of butter in jib. of sifted flour; then mix with it Alb. of caster sugar and the grated peel of one lemon. When mixed and rubbed through a fine hair sieve, work it with a little cold water to a stiff Paste. Sprinkle some flour over a paste-board, slightly flour a rolling pin, and roll the Paste to about Ain. in thickness; spread over the surface jib. of butter, then fold it up, sprinkle more flour over the board and rolling-pin, and roll it out again; spread another jib. of butter, proceed as before, use another jib. of butter, making in all lib. The Paste is then ready for use. (2) Sift Alb. of flour into a basin and mix a small quantity of salt with it; beat an egg together with 1 teacupful of water and stir it in with the flour. Put 3 pints of milk into a saucepan, and when boiling drop the mixture into it in flakes. Boil for five or six minutes, then turn the Paste on to a hot dish, dredge over caster sugar, and serve. Italian Paste.—What is known by this name is merely an admixture of fine wheat-flour and water, used chiefly in the manufacture of macaroni and vermicelli. macaroni Paste.—This consists essentially of the best white flour moistened with water. It is more generally known as Italian Paste. Office Paste (Pate d'Office).—(1) Make a bay in l^lb. of flour and work in the whites of two eggs and yolks of five, lib. of crushed loaf sugar, and a little salt, adding if required another yolk of egg so as to have the Paste as firm as possible. Work it five or six times, or until it is quite smooth and well mixed. It is then ready for use, and may be cut into pieces of any desired shape; blit when being baked care should be taken to squeeze the Paste on to the tin or whatever is used so as to exclude the air, which would spoil the Paste by cooking it unevenly. Office Paste is used for making foundations and ornaments for various custards, baked egg puddings, and creamy pies;