102 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. (3) Pluck and bone eight Partridges, spread them out on the table, coat them with a thick layer of game force- meat, then sew them up, giving them a round shape ; tie the birds separately in some small cloths, put them in a stewpan with some vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs, cover with broth, and boil gently. When tender, which can be ascertained by running a larding-needle into the flesh, drain the birds, put them on a deep dish, place another dish over them with a weight on the top, and leave them till cold. Fix a pain-vert on a dish, with a support of fat, or of wood masked with fat, in the centre. When quite cold, remove the cloths oil' the birds, and coat them all over with a light brown chaudfroid sauce. Decorate the galantines with a row of cooked truffles cut into small squares on each side of the breast, and glaze them over with aspic jelly. Place the birds on the pain-vert leaning lengthwise against the support of fat. Fix a garnished attelette-skewer in each, and garnish the base of them with truffles. Arrange croutons of aspic jelly round the base of the pain-vert, place the dish on a decorated stand, and serve. (4) Having prepared and cooked a galantine of Par- tridge and allowed it to become cold, cut it across into slices of a moderate thickness, and trim them to an equal size and an oblong shape; dip a paste-brush in melted glaze, brush them over, and put a slice of cooked truffle in the centre of each. Put the galantines side by side in a saute-pan that has been coated at the bottom with a layer of aspic jelly and allowed to set; stand the saute-pan on ice, pour between the galantines some cold liquid aspic jelly, allowing it just to reach the height of the slices, and leave it till well set. When ready to serve, cut through the jelly round the slices with the point of a knife, dip the bottom of the saute-pan in warm water, then take the galantines out with the jelly, arrange them on a dish, and garnish with croutons of aspic. (5) Bone the birds, stuff them with a game forcemeat, roll to a round shape, and sew them with packthread. Tie each bird separately in a cloth, put them in a stewpan with sufficient broth to cover, and cook them slowly. When the birds are tender, drain them, place them between two dishes with a weight on the top to keep them in shape, and leave them till cold. When cold, unwrap the birds, glaze them, and cut them into slices of the same size and thickness. Pour a thin layer of aspic jelly into a square shallow baking dish, and place it on ice till firm; then lay the slices side by side on the jelly, and pour round to the level of each some almost cold aspic jelly which should not come over the slices. When the jelly is quite firm, place the baking-sheet over some hot water, and with the point of a knife cut round each galantine, and take it off. Arrange the galantines in a crown on a stand of fat, which should be slightly concave, round in form, and ornamented with a friese cut with a knife. Put a small support that has been coated with aspic jelly in the centre, and round that place some fillets of very red tongue masked with red jelly. Garnish an attelette-skewer with a round truffle and a cock’s comb. Place the dish on an ornamented stand, and serve. Minced Cold Partridge.—Cut off the meat from a cold roasted Partridge, mince it very fine, put it into a sauce- pan with Hoz. of butter and loz. of flour, and fry to a light brown. Add the liver and broken-up carcase of the bird, also a bay-leaf, a sprig of parsley, and two shallots Fig. 118. Minced Cold Partridges. stuck with a clove each, and continue to cook until the whole is well coloured ; then pour in 1 teacupful of rich stock, reduce it to half, strain it, and add it to the mince again, having removed the carcase and liver; stir until Partridges—continued. it is quite smooth and thick and as hot as possible without boiling. Pour it out on to a dish, and serve with poached eggs and croutons of fried bread. See Fig. 118. Minced Cold Partridges served in a Loaf of Bread.— Mince the fillets of some roasted Partridges. Put some butter and a little flour into a frying-pan; when hot, add to it the livers and lights of the birds, a leaf of sage, a bay-leaf, three shallots, and a clove, and let these simmer two or three minutes; then add 1 pint of stock, and let this boil gently till it is reduced to 4 pint. Strain it, put it into a saucepan with the minced Partridges, and stir it over the fire till it is thick and smooth. Take a well- shaped loaf weighing about lib., make a hole in it, and through this scoop out the crumb; rub the outside of the loaf with a little butter, and put it in the oven for a few minutes to dry. When dry, take it out of the oven, and fill it with the minced Partridges; then put the loaf bottom upwards into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of veal broth, and leave it over the fire until the bread is sufficiently soft to be pierced with a straw. Put it on to a dish, and garnish either with poached or hard-boiled eggs. Minced Cold Partridges with Partridge Balls and Truffles.—Cut the meat off two small cooked Partridges, chop it, then put it in a mortar and pound together with a piece of butter; mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of gravy that has been prepared with the bones and backs of the Par- tridges; season it with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Finely chop the flesh of a raw Partridge, and mix with it half its quantity of panada, a little butter, and the yolks of two eggs. Put the minced Partridge-flesh, &c., in a biscuit-forcer, and with it squeeze symmetrically round the bottom of a dish some small round balls. Trim some truffles to rounds, cook them for two or three minutes in hot wine and melted glaze, drain, and put one on each of the balls; cover the dish with a sheet of buttered paper, put it in an oven, and bake them for ten minutes. Put the puree in a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil. Take the dish out of the oven, remove the buttered paper, brush the truffles over with melted glaze, fill the centre with the puree, pour a little melted glaze over it, and serve. Partridges a la Crapaudine.—Split the birds open down the back, beat them flat, and put them in a stewpan with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of olive oil, and a small quantity of chopped parsley, and toss them about for a few minutes over a brisk fire. Take them out of the oil, roll them in breadcrumbs that have been seasoned with salt and pepper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. When cooked, put the Partridges on a hot dish on a bed of tartar sauce, and serve them. Partridges a la Mecklenburg.—Clean three large but young Partridges, leaving the skin long at the neck to lap over. Prepare 41b. of game forcemeat, mix with it 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped cooked ham, 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, the beaten yolks of two eggs, and.^ teacupful of thick cream; add a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and mix well. Stuff the breasts of the birds with the forcemeat, wrap each in thin slices of fat bacon and then in sheets of oiled paper, tie them round with twine, and lay them side by side in a stewpan, with two peeled onions, an apple, and a bunch of parsley; pour over them 1 pint of stock and 4 pint of bucellas wine, place the stewpan over a moderate fire until the liquor begins to boil, then put it in the oven. In three quarters- of-an hour take the birds out of the paper and bacon, put them on a dish, and keep them hot whilst preparing the following sauce: Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve into a clean saucepan, skim it well, and boil it until reduced to half its original quantity. Mix 2 tea- spoonfuls of arrowroot smooth with a little cold stock, then stir it into the reduced liquor, and add 4 teacupful of tomato sauce. Continue boiling and stirring it until reduced to a half glaze. Stir 1 small table-spoonful of red-currant jelly in the sauce, pour it over the birds, and serve. The sauce should be highly seasoned. Partridges a, la Princess Beatrice.—Prepare three Par- tridges, truss them for roasting, and lard their breasts with