THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 141 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fears—continued. for stewing, baking, compotes, and for making of perry. The latter is described under its own beading. Baked Pears.—(1) Peel, core, and cut in halves twelve large Pears, put them into a pan with two dozen cloves, Fig. 188. Passe Crassane Pear. lib. of sugar, and nearly enough water to cover them. Bake them in a moderate oven till tender, keeping the pan covered ; then put them over a slow fire, and let them stew gently. Grate a little lemon-peel over them, and add more sugar if it is required. Fig. 189. Williams’ Bon Chretien Pear. (2) Peel a dozen Pears and cut them in halves. Cut a lemon in thin slices, picking out the pips. Lay the Pears in an earthen jar in layers, covering each layer with sugar and some slices of the lemon, and putting in a Fig, 190. Easter Beurre Pear. clove here and there. When all are in, pour over sufficient water to cover the Pears completely, set the jar in a moderate oven, and bake for five hours. Fears—continued. (3) Peel 2qts. of hard Pears, core and cut them in quarters, and put them in a deep pie-disli, with 1 break- fast-cupful of moist sugar and a little water; cover them, and bake in a moderate oven for several hours. Pears cooked in this way will keep for an indefinite time if put in jars and sealed down. Bavaroise of Fears.—Peel and core some moderately large Pears, slice them into a preserving-pan, and squeeze in the juice of two lemons and the thinly-pared rind of one. Blanch about seventeen or nineteen bitter almonds, chop them finely, put them in the pan with Jib. of loaf sugar and loz. of dissolved isinglass, place the pan over a moderate fire, and stew the Pears till tender. Rub the Pears through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand them on ice, and stir them till cold. Mix 1 pint of welbwhipped cream in with the Pears, pour the mixture into a mould, cover it, and pack it in ice. When set, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the contents out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Fig. 192. Beurre Sterckmans Pear. Candied Knots of Pear Paste.—Boil 14oz. of sugar to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling), then mix with it lib. of Pear-pulp, colour it a delicate pink with a few drops of prepared cochineal, and boil it till reduced to a stiff consistency. Pour the paste out on a baking-sheet, level it off, and dry it for four or five hours in a screen; at the end of that time, turn it, and dry for an hour