THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 103 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. thin strips of fat Cumberland smoked bacon. The larding can be done in a fancy design. Lay the birds in a basin with some verjuice, and leave them for an hour or two. When ready, drain and wipe them very carefully on a dry cloth, without disturbing the pattern of the larding. Butter some sheets of grilling-paper, wrap each bird separately in it, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire, keeping them well basted. In about half-an- liour remove the paper and brown the birds. Lay them on a hot dish, garnish with watercress and barberries, and serve with a clear sauce. Partridges a la Supreme.—Singe, draw, wipe neatly, and remove the skin from the breasts of three Partridges; make an incision on the top of each breast-bone from end to end, then with a keen knife carefully cut off the entire breast on both sides, including the small wing-bone, which should not be separated from the breasts, and seeing that the entire breasts are cleanly cut away, without leaving a particle of meat on the carcases. Under each breast will be found a small fillet, which remove, and place on a dish for further use. With a small, sharp knife, make an incision in each breast at their thinner side 3in. in length by lin. in depth. Season the inside of each breast with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper, equally distributed. Stuff the breasts with 2oz. of chicken forcemeat mixed with two finely-sliced truffles and four finely-sliced mush- rooms. Butter well a well-tinned copper saute-pan, and gently lay in the six breasts ; take the small fillets, press them gently with the fingers, giving them a boat-like form, make six slanting, small incisions on top of each, and insert in each a small slice of truffle cut with a tube Jin. in diameter. Lightly wet the top of each breast with water, then lay one fillet on top of each lengthwise. Sprinkle a little clarified butter over all, using a feather brush. Pour into the pan (not over the supreme) J wine- glassful of Madeira wine and 2 table-spoonfuls of mushroom liquor, tightly cover the pan with a lid, and place it in the hot oven for ten minutes. Pour in a hot dish 1 pint of hot Toulouse garnishing, remove the supreme from the oven, neatly dress over the garnishing, adjust paper nifties on each wing-bone, and serve immediately. Partridge Cheese or Pain.—Trim the fillets taken from six Partridges, and cut them into small pieces. Put an equal quantity of fat bacon cut in dice in a saute-pan, toss it over the fire till melted, then put in the pieces of meat, some thyme, a bay-leaf, a little parsley, and pepper and salt. Fry all for a few minutes over a sharp fire, then turn it into a mortar with half the quantity of bread panada; pound them well, then press the whole through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it J- pint of Spanish sauce that has been reduced with a little essence of Partridge, three eggs, and a few truffles cut in small dice. Fill a buttered plain round cylinder-mould with the forcemeat, and also a small plain round mould. Stand the moulds in a bain-marie and poach the pains. When cold, turn the pains out of the moulds, and trim and glaze them with game glaze. Prepare a round rice socle on a dish, mask it with montpellier butter, and put the large pain on it first, the smaller one on the top. Garnish round the socle with croutons of aspic jelly, put a crouton on the top of the pain, and serve. Partridge Cheese (Pain) with Olives.—With the flesh of two Partridges prepare a quenelle forcemeat, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce which has been reduced with a little meat glaze and wine. Cut some black truffles into small dice, and sprinkle them round the sides and bottom of a plain cylinder-mould that has been buttered. Stand it on ice for ten minutes, then fill the hollow with the forcemeat, set the mould in a bain-marie, and poach it. Take the mould out, wipe it, turn the contents on to a hot dish, and fill the hollow with stoned and blanched olives (see Fig. 119). Pour over the pain some rich brown sauce that has been reduced with Partridge fumet and Madeira wine, and serve. Partridge Collops.—Cut the fillets oft' four Partridges, collop them, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and cook ' till firm; take the collops out, drain the Partridges—continued. butter out of the saucepan, and put in 3 table-spoonfuls of game stock and 2 table-spoonfuls of German sauce; when boiling, put in some peeled mushrooms or sliced truffles, a lump of butter, the strained juice of one lemon, and the collops. When ready, arrange the collops in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Fig. 119. Partridge Cheese with Olives. Partridge Collops a la Chef de Cuisine.—Cut the flesh of the bird into nice shaped pieces, put them in a frying- pan with a lump of butter, and fry to a pale brown. Season some potato-flour with salt and pepper, and roll the fried fillets in it; next brush them over with beaten egg, roll them in breadcrumbs and minced truffles, lay them on a balting-disli, and put them in a brisk oven. Pour 2 breakfast-cupfuls of stock into a small saucepan with a piece of glaze about the size of a hazel-nut and J teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and boil it until somewhat reduced. Pass two boiled turnips through a fine wire sieve and mash them up together with a lump of butter, seasoning with salt and pepper. Butter some cold scallop shells, pack the mashed turnips into them to gain their shape, then turn them out on to the bird, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Partridge Collops in Paper Cases.—Oil the interior of some paper cases about 2in. in diameter and put them in a slack oven for five minutes. Trim some fillets of Par- tridges, cut them into thin collops, and put them in a saute-pan with some truffles, cut the same way; add clarified butter, and fry them. When cooked, drain the collops, and fill the cases with them. Pour in some Spanish sauce that has been reduced with a small quantity of essence of Partridge, arrange the cases on a hot dish, and serve. Partridge Cromeskies.—Chop some cold remains of Par- tridges, put them in a mortar with a small lump of butter, and pound until quite smooth ; pass it through a fine liaii- sieve, and season to taste with salt and pepper, also a moderate quantity of spices. Melt a lump of butter in a stewpan, put in the mixture, and stir it over the fire until hot; then move it to the side. Beat the yolk of an egg with the juice of half a lemon, strain it, stir it in with the mixture, and leave it until cold; then divide it into small equal-sized quantities, and roll each in a thin rasher of partially-boiled bacon. Prepare a good frying- batter, and dip the rolls into it, coating them well. Put a large piece of fat or lard into a stewpan ; when boiling, put in the cromeskies, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain and pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Partridge Croquettes.—(1) With the flesh of two uncooked Partridges prepare some quenelle forcemeat, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and keep it on ice for half-an-hour. Divide the forcemeat into small equal quantities with a table-spoon, drop them on a floured table, and roll them to a cork shape; make a hollow in each with a wooden spoon dipped in warm water, fill them with chopped raw truffles, and cover the opening with some of the forcemeat. Dip