THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 971 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. cold water to nearly cover it, and let it stew very gently, allowing ten minutes to each pound, counting from the time the water begins to simmer. Then take it out of the saucepan and out of the cloth, put it in a baking-dish, rub it over with warm dripping or butter, sprinkle some flour over, and bake it for half-an-liour, basting frequently with its own broth. Five minutes before taking it out of Fig. 1214. Baked Breast of Mutton. the oven strew fine dry breadcrumbs thickly over it, put little bits of butter here and there, and let it brown. Put it on a hot dish, garnish with slices of beetroot (see Fig. 1214), and serve. Baked Minced Mutton Kebobs. Trim off all the skin and most of the fat from 31b. or 41b. of raw Mutton, and finely chop the lean part. Slice and chop two large onions, put them in a stewpan with 2oz. or 3oz. of fresh butter, and toss them about over a brisk fire for a few minutes, then put in the minced Mutton, 4 teacupful each of well-washed currants and skinned pi .tachios, and a dust of salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon. Stir the mixture over the fire till the meat is partly fried. Cut a piece of caul-fat into rather small squares, and put an equal quantity of the mince on each; wrap them up to any shape fancied, and lav them on a baking-dish. Put them into a quick oven till nicely coloured, then place on a hot dish and serve without delay. Baked Mutton Cutlets. -Procure the required quantity of cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton, trim off nearly all the fat, chop the bones off to within lin. of the meat, and scrape the remaining pieces clean. Dust the cutlets over on both sides with salt and pepper, lay them in a pie-dish, pour some nicely-flavoured beef gravy over, cover with a flat dish, and bake in a slow oven. In about two-hours-and-a half, or when the chops are tender, boil a sufficient quantity of potatoes, and when done drain and mash them with butter, seasoning with salt. Put the potatoes in a heap in the centre of a hot dish, smooth them over with the prongs of a fork, and brown them under a salamander. When cooked, arrange the chops in a circle round the potatoes, mix 4 wineglassful of vinegar and a small quantity of mushroom ketchup with their cooking- liquor, strain it round the cutlets, and serve. Baked Mutton Cutlets with Apples.—Prepare the cutlets taken from a neck of Mutton by trimming off the fat and ragged pieces, season with sait and pepper, lay them in a pie-dish with some thinly-sliced apples and one or two finely-chopped onions, pour in sufficient clear gravy to cover them, place a flat dish over, put it in a moderate oven, and bake the cutlets until tender ; they will require about three-quarters-of-an-hour’s cooking. When done, serve all together. A tureen made of fire-clay answers capitally for this dish. Baked Ribs of Mutton a la Mallorquina (Spanish).—Put a lump of butter into a mortar with a few boned anchovies and any dried sweet herbs, pound them well together, and work in a little lemon-juice. Take a piece of ribs of Mutton, separate the ribs without actually parting them at one end, put them into a baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven, basting with butter as required. When well done, take them out, open the ribs, put a piece of the anchovy butter between the ribs, and serve. This is an excellent dish for those that like the fishy flavour. Baked Saddle of Mutton.—Cut off all the fat and skin from a saddle of Mutton, chop oft' the ends of the ribs, and remove the cord-and veins along the back. Wipe it dry with a cloth, and nib well inside with salt. Roll the Mutton—continued. flank under on each side, tie it three or four times across the middle (see Fig. 1215), sprinkle well with flour, salt, and pepper, and put it hi a baking-dish with the inside upwards so that the fat will be thoroughly cooked. Cover it Fig. 1215. Saddle of Mutton prepared for Baking. over with a piece of well-buttered paper and cook until the fat is brown and crisp and the meat quite done. Put it on a dish, and serve. Boiled Boned Shoulder of Mutton with Oysters.—Select a shoulder of Mutton that has been hung until tender, put it in salt for a couple of days, bone it, and sprinkle over with mace and pepper. Place one-dozen-and-a-half of oysters over the inside of the joint, roll it up, tie tightly, and put it into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover; add an onion and a few peppercorns, put the lid on the pan, and cook until thoroughly done. Put six oysters into a saucepan with 1 pint of gravy, cook them gently until done, then thicken the liquor with a little butter rolled in flour. When done, put the meat on a dish, remove the string, pour over the sauce, and serve. Boiled Breast of Mutton.—Put a breast of Mutton into a saucepan with water, place the pan over the fire, and boil until the meat is quite tender. Take it out when done, remove all the bones, and cover with a mixture of chopped parsley and thyme, breadcrumbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Put it on a dish in front of a clear fire to brown, pour round a good gravy with capers in it, and serve. Boiled Breast of Mutton with Caper Sauce.—Trim off the fat from a breast of Mutton and bone the joint. Chop fine 3 table-spoonfuls of sweet herbs and a couple of sprigs of parsley, mix them up with 4 table-spoonfuls of bread- crumbs, and sprinkle over sufficient salt and pepper to taste. Put a layer of this mixture over the boned meat, roll it round, and tie with string. Place it in a saucepan of water over a moderate lire and boil very slowly for two hours or so until the meat is done; put it on a dish, remove the string, pour over a little caper sauce, and serve with more of the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Leg of Mutton.—Put a leg of Mutton into a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover, and to every gallon of water add 2 table-spoonfuls of salt and l teaspoonful of pepper. Put the pan on the fire, boil quickly for ten minutes, skim well, and then remove it to the side of the fire where it will cook just at boiling-point (fifteen minutes for every pound weight is sufficient, but if it is a large leg weighing 81b. or more it will not require quite so long). Put it when done on a dish and serve with some mashed turnips in a separate dish, or a little caper sauce may be either poured over it or served separately. It may also be boiled with a little rice if desired, and garnished with parsley. Currant jelly should also be served with it. Boiled Leg of Mutton with Caper Sauce.—Prepare a leg of Mutton by cutting oft the shank-bone, trimming and making an incision at the first joint; put it on to boil in a stockpot filled with slightly-salted cold water, and add a bouquet garni and one carrot cut up. Boil for an-hour- and-a-quarter, and serve with 1 pint of hot caper sauce, made by putting 1 pint of hot liollandaise sauce into a