THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 185 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. Timbale of Pigeons with Olives.—Peel and stone six- dozen salted olives, immerse them in cold water, drain, stuff them with raw quenelle forcemeat, and roll them to their original shape. Plunge them into boiling water until the forcemeat is firm. Line a dome-shaped timbale- mould with buttered paper, and stand it on ice. Drain the olives, and arrange them in rows on the bottom and against the sides of the mould, supporting them inside with a layer of forcemeat. Draw and singe three Pigeons, divide each into four pieces, put them in a stevpan with a piece of butter, and fry them. Add Alb. of streaky bacon cut in squares, and season with salt and pepper. When nicely browned, pour in \ pint of white wine and boil it. When it has evaporated somewhat, add a few table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, and finish braising over a very slow fire. Blanch and cut in quarters some chicken’s livers, and put them in with the Pigeons. Take the stewpan off the fire, and let the contents cool. Fill the mould with the stew of Pigeons, put a layer of forcemeat on the top, and cover it with a sheet of buttered paper. Stand the timbale in the bain-marie, and poach it. Turn it on to a dish (see Fig. 237), pour a little brown sauce round it, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same. Timbale of Pigeons and Truffles.—Pluck, singe, and clean eight Pigeons, truss them, chop them into halves, put them into a saute-pan with butter and bacon-fat, adding 1 table-spoonful of parsley, 2 table-spoonfuls of mushrooms, and 4 table-spoonfuls of truffles, all finely chopped. Season to taste with grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and simmer gently over a slow fire for fifteen minutes or so. Let them cool in the liquor, and remove as many bones as possible. Fill a mould with paste, mask the bottom and sides with game forcemeat, put in the halves of Pigeons with a few slices of truffles intermixed, pour over the flutter from the frying-pan, cover over with a little more of the paste, set the mould in a moderate oven, and bake for an-hour-and-a-half. Turn it out when done, and serve. PIGEON PEAS.—These are the seeds of a plant (Cajanus indicus) much cultivated in the East and West Indies. Although not much known in this country, they form a favourite dish amongst our countrymen in India, who, in common with the natives, esteem their nutritious qualities. The following is the usual mode of preparing them: - Pigeon Peas and Rice.—Put Alb. each of Pigeon Peas and well-washed rice into a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil them. When half cooked, put in with them some small pieces of salt pork, salt beef, and salt fish, two or three chopped onions, and two fresh peppers, and finish cooking gently. Add more water if necessary, but it must not be too liquid. When quite cooked, turn the mixture into a buttered mould, pressing it firmly in to Pigeon Peas—continued. give it the shape, then turn it out on to a hot dish, and serve as quickly as possible. PIGNOLO.—An Italian wine of Nerve, in the Ligurian Provinces; it is quite unknown in this country. PIKE (Fr. Brochet; Ger. Hecht; Ital. Luccio; Sp- Lucio).—This fish is commonly known as jack, and some- times as luce, and the young are called pickerel. It is a very voracious fresli-water fish, found in the gentle- flowing rivers and ponds of Europe and America. The name Pike is probably derived from a Celtic word re- ferring to the shape of its mouth. The British Pike (Esox Indus) (see Fig. 238) is not much esteemed by epicures, although it is asserted by some that the flesh has a very good flavour, if properly cooked. They are in season during the winter months up to the beginning of March, their spawning season; after which they are quite out of favour for some time. Izaak Walton in his “ Compleat Angler ” gives the following receipt for cooking the Pike : First open your Pike at the gills, and, if need be, cut also a little slit towards the belly. Out of these take his guts, and keep his liver, which you are to shred very small with thyme, sweet marjoram, and a little winter savory; to these put some pickled oysters and some anchovies, two or three, both these last whole, for the anchovies will melt, and the oysters should not; to these you must add also lib. of sweet butter, if the Pike be more than a yard long, or if he be less, then less butter will suffice, which you are to mix with the herbs that are shred, and let them all be well salted. These being thus mixed, with a blade or two of mace, must be put into the Pike’s belly, and then his belly so sewed up as to keep all the butter in his belly if it be possible; if not, then as much as you possibly can. But take not off the scales. Then you are to thrust the spit through his mouth, out at his tail. And then take four or five or six split sticks, or very thin laths, and a convenient quantity of tape or filleting; these laths are to be tied round about the Pike’s body from his head to his tail, and the tape tied somewhat thick, to prevent his breaking or falling off from the spit. Let him be roasted very leisurely, and often basted with claret wine, and anchovies and butter mixed together, and also with the moisture that falls from him into the pan. When you have roasted him sufficiently, you are to hold under him, when you unwind or cut the tape that ties him, such a dish as you propose to eat him out of and let him fall into it with the same that is roasted in his belly, and by this means the Pike will be kept unbroken and complete. Then to the sauce which was within, and also that sauce in the pan, you are to add a small quantity of the best butter, and to squeeze the juice of three or four oranges. Lastly, you. may either put it into the Pike, with the oysters, two cloves of garlic, and take it whole out when the Pike is cut off the spit; or, to give the sauce a liogoo (liaut gout) let the dish into which you let the Pike fall be rubbed with it; the using or not using of this garlic is left to your discre- tion. This dish of meat is too good for any but anglers or very honest men; and I trust you will prove both, and therefore I have trusted you with this secret. Baked Pickerel with Green Peas.—Scald the fish, split it lengthwise down the back, take out the backbone, and Fig. 238. Pike.