47 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, it-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. (4) Select bitter Oranges with a clear skin, make a small hole at the stalk end, and scoop out all the pulp. Put them into a basin of salted water, let them remain for four days, then take them out, drain, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil. When they are sufficiently done, so that a straw can easily be pushed through them, put them into a basin of cold water. Take them out, drain free from water, and remove any part of the pulp that may be adhering to them. Put them into an earthen- ware pan, and pour over sufficient boiling syrup to cover ; let them remain in this for five days, drain them, boil up the syrup again, adding a little more each time, and continue in this way until the syrup has penetrated the peel. Put the Oranges into jars, cover when cold, and they are ready for use. (5) Peel a dozen sweet or bitter Oranges, and with a sharp knife remove every particle of the white pith. Put 8oz. of loaf sugar in a saucepan with f breakfast-cupful of water, the juice of two large lemons, and the thinly- pared rind of one, also the rind of one of the Oranges. Boil all until reduced to a very clear syrup, then strain it, colour with a few drops of cochineal, and pour it over the Oranges. When quite cold, arrange the Oranges in a glass dish, pour their syrup over them, and serve. They make a very pretty dish. (6) Select a dozen moderate-sized Oranges, and pierce a small hole at one end of each near the stalk; scoop out all the seeds, and squeeze the juice into a basin, but leave the pulp inside the Oranges. Steep them in plenty of cold water for three days, changing the water each day. Strain the juice as soon as it is squeezed out, pour it into a jar, stand the jar in a saucepan of boiling water, and leave it on the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Next put the juice into a lined pan with 21b. of loaf sugar, and boil it to a syrup; then pour it into a jar, cover with bladder while hot, and tie down. At the end of the third day put the Oranges into a preserving-pan with the water strained over them, and leave over the fire until boiling; move them to the side and keep them simmering gently for two hours. At the end of that time move the pan away from the fire, and leave the Oranges and liquor iu it until the following morning. Boil the Oranges again until tender, put in 21b. of loaf sugar, boil them up again, and leave until cool. Next day boil the syrup up, and put in the fruit with 2lb. of loaf sugar and sufficient boiling water to cover them well. Remove the Oranges, and boil the syrup up once every day for a fortnight, pouring it hot over the fruit each time. When the fruit looks clear and bright, boil the syrup up once more with the juice of the Oranges, and skim it well. Place the Oranges carefully in wide-mouthed bottles, pour the syrup over them, seeing that they are well covered, put bladder over, tie them down, and store away in a dry cupboard. Preserved Oranges Stuffed Cornish Style.—Grate lib. of Naples biscuits and mix with them Jib. of blanched almonds; slightly warm 4oz. of butter and beat it well with 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar and the yolks of four eggs. Stir this mixture in with the dry ingredients and beat all well together, adding a few drops of Orange-flower water. Fill some preserved Oranges with the mixture, strew caster sugar over, put them on a baking-dish, and bake in a slow oven. Leave the Oranges until cold, then arrange them tastefully on a glass dish, putting a border of green vine- leaves round the edge of the dish, and serve. Preserved Seville Oranges.—Steep the Oranges in water for one night, then drain, put them in a pan with fresh water, and boil. When tender, which can be ascertained by running a quill through them, drain, cut them into halves, and remove the pips. Allow 1 til), of lump sugar for every pound of the Oranges, and 1 pint of water for every four Oranges. Boil the Oranges in the syrup, and when sufficiently done take them out; for every pint of syrup squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and boil it until thickly reduced. Put the Oranges in jars, and when the syrup is cold pour it over them.' Tie them down and keep in a dry store-cupboard for use. Tangerine-Orange Biscuits.—Put the yolks of fourteen eggs into a basin with lib. of caster sugar, 1 pinch of salt, Oranges—continued. and any kind of flavouring preferred, and beat them well till creamy. Whisk the whites of the fourteen eggs to a stiff froth, then mix them with the ydlks, adding gradually at the same time 4toz. of Indian cornflour or potato-flour, and 44oz. of the finest wheat-flour; mix the batter till perfectly smooth. Butter some baking-dishes, then dredge them with flour, and shake off all the superfluous; fill a biscuit-forcer with the mixture, and lay it out in pieces the shape and size of half a Tangerine Orange; sift caster sugar over the biscuits, and bake them till lightly browned. When cooked, join the halves of biscuits together, using Orange marmalade for the purpose, then coat them thickly with Orange marmalade, and glaze them over with transparent icing. Put the biscuits in a screen to dry for a few minutes; cut some pieces of angelica to imitate the stalks, and stick one in the end of each biscuit. These biscuits, when nicely arranged in a glass or fancy dish, make an excellent addition to a dessert-table. Tangerine-Orange Jelly.—Squeeze the juice out of fifteen Tangerine Oranges, two Seville Oranges, and two small lemons. Put fib. of loaf sugar with 3oz. of isinglass into an ena- melled saucepan with a small quantity of cold water, and stir it over the fire until dissolved; then put in a small piece of Seville Orange-peel, the peel of a lemon, and the juice. Boil the whole for a few minutes, then strain it through a jelly-bag. Rinse a mould out with cold water, fill it with the jelly, and stand it in a cold place. In making the jelly, sufficient water should be used with the juice to make the whole a quart. When quite set and cold, dip the mould quickly into hot water, wipe it, turn the jelly on to a dish, and serve. Tincture of Oranges. —Add I gall, of over-proof plain spirit to lib. of ground dried Orange-peel, let it infuse for a fortnight, and bottle. The best way of treating the peel is to cut round the Oranges and, with the handle of a spoon for a scoop, take off the halves of rind; put them to dry in the sun or in a cool oven with the door open, and let them remain until crisp. Orange-flowers.—Although it is almost impossible to grow Oranges in this climate, the flowers (see Fig. 60) can be produced in great profusion in ordinary green-