979 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Croces es, Utensils, Sauces, efcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. and salt and pepper to taste. Add 1 pint of peas, simmer gently for a-quarter-of-an-liour, turn out on a dish, and serve. Macaroni cut into Jin. pieces, or the tops of asparagus, may be used instead of the peas. Fricasseed Mutton with Egg-Plant Fruit.—(1) Cut the required quantity of Mutton into small pieces, place them in a stew pan, and dust them over with salt and pepper ; toss the pan about over the fire until it begins to make a slight hissing noise, then put in Jib. of butter, and fry until the meat is nicely browned. Trim and slice four egg-plant fruit, rub them with salt, and leave them for a few minutes to extract the bitter juice; take the pieces of meat out of the frying-pan, keep them hot, then drain the slices of egg-plant fruit and fry them in the remain- ing fat till well browned. Place the pieces of meat on a hot dish, put the fried slices of egg-plant fruit in a circle round it, and serve while very hot. (2) Cut some loin of Mutton into small pieces and lay them in a deep frying-pan, season with salt and pepper, toss them about over the lire until their moisture has evaporated, then put in a small lump of butter ami fry them until nicely browned. Bake four good-sized egg- plant fruit till tender, peel them, cut them into slices, and lay them in a saucepan; then put in the pieces of meat and the remainder of the frying-fat, pour in 1 break- fast-cupful of clear broth, put the lid on, and simmer at the side of the lire for twenty minutes. When cooked, turn the fricassee on to a hot dish, dust it over with salt and pepper, and serve. Fried Breast of Mutton with. Green Peas. -Cut a breast of Mutton into small pieces of equal size, sprinkle them over with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until they are light brown. Add a bunch of sweet herbs and one onion cut in thin slices, pour in sufficient water to cover, and cook slowly over a clear fire until the Mutton is tender. Put the meat on a dish to keep warm, remove all the fat from the liquor, strain it into a saucepan, and boil it; add lqt. of boiled green peas, and when they are quite hot and done pour them with the liquor over the meat, and serve quickly. Fried Fillets of Mutton.—(1) Cut off 21b. of cutlets from the middle of a loin of Mutton, remove all the fat and skin, and cut each one up into slices about Jin. thick ; flatten them with a cutlet-bat, and dip them first into beaten egg and then into sifted breadcrumbs. Dust them over with pepper and salt, and let them remain for an hour or so. Put some butter into a frying-pan, and when it is 1 hot put in the fillets and fry them first on one side and then on the other until they are quite done and of a nice brown colour. Place them on a dish, garnish with aspar- agus, sea-kale, or cauliflower, and serve. (2) Remove the fat from the inside lillets taken from under a sirloin of Mutton, flatten them a little with a cutlet-bat, sprinkle with salt and pepper, brush over with yolk of egg, and dip them first into breadcrumbs and then into warmed butter, and smooth over with a knife, j Put them into a frying-pan with a very little butter and fry them till a light brown colour; take them out when done, place them on a sheet of paper to drain away the fat, i and arrange them on a dish. Boil down quickly a little tarra- I gon vinegar in a saucepan, add 4 table-spoonfuls of Spanish ( sauce and a little cayenne, pour over the meat, and serve. Fried Loin-of-Mutton Cutlets. —Trim off nearly all the fat from two cutlets (a chop will do, if cut from the bone and split down the middle with a knife); dip first in a Mutton—continued. little egg and then in some highly-seasoned breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them first on one side and then on the other. Boil three or four onions until they are tender, pass them through a sieve, and replace them in# the saucepan in which they were boiled, adding a small piece of butter and a little salt and pepper. Mash this puree with a spoon until it becomes quite thick, then put it on a dish with the cutlets over it (see Fig. 1222), and serve. Fried Marinaded Inside Fillets of Mutton.—Cut off the inside fillets from four saddles of Mutton, lard them, and put them in a basin with a marinade of vinegar, onions, bay-leaves, parsley, thyme, salt and pepper, and let them remain for about three hours. Take them out, put them in a frying-pan over a few slices of fat bacon, and fry them to a light brown. Take out when done, glaze, and put them on a dish ; pour round a little sharp brown sauce, and serve very hot. Fried Minced Mutton.—Chop 2lb. of raw Mutton and three peeled onions quite tine, then put them into a mortar with an equal quantity of cooked rice and pound them well. Season with salt and pepper and 1 table- spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, stir in sufficient beaten eggs to make a stiffish paste, work the mixture thoroughly, then cover it with a cloth and leave it for an hour. Divide into small, equal-sized portions, roll them round, and fry them in butter till nicely browned. When cooked, drain the balls, arrange them in a group in the centre of a dish, and serve. Fried Mutton Chops.—Prepare the same as for Broiled Mutton Chops. Put them in a stewpan and cook; when done, the hot fat must be poured away and a few table- spoonfuls of good stock, or water slightly warmed, and 1 table-spoonful of ketchup or any other flavouring added. Boil this stock up after removing the chops, and either pour it over them or serve separately. Fried Mutton Collops.—Cut 21b. or 311'. of Mutton from the leg into pieces about the size of an egg, make two or three incisions on each piece, and beat them; dust them over with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, and rub a small quantity of finely-minced onion over them. Leave the pieces of Mutton for about an hour so that they may be well incorporated with the flavouring. When ready to cook them, put sufficient butter into a frying-pan, and when it has melted place in the pieces of meat and fry them, turning them over when browned on one side and finishing the other. When cooked, drain the pieces of Mutton, arrange them tastefully on a folded napkin or fancy-edged dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish here and there with a few neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. Fried Mutton Cutlets.—(1) Put a carrot cut into strips in a saucepan with water to cook. Take four mushrooms and the same number of gherkins and truffles, cut them into strips likewise, and put them in a stewpan. Place the pan in the bain-marie to keep warm. Take some cutlets from a neck of Mutton, and trim them. Mince finely two or three slices of lean ham, and mix with some breadcrumbs. Dust the cutlets over with pepper and salt, brush them over with egg, and then dip them in the breadcrumbs. Put them in a frying-pan with Jib. of butter, fry them to a nice brown, put them in a circle on a dish with the vegetables in the centre, and a little Spanish sauce poured round, and serve. (2) Take Jib. of fat bacon, cut it up, and fry it in a pan for five minutes with Jib. of calf's or pig’s liver, one carrot, one onion, a bunch of parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme tied up in a muslin bag, one clove of garlic, one shallot, a small blade of mace, and a dozen peppercorns. When the liver is done take it out, pound it in a mortar, season with salt and pepper, and pass it through a sieve. Take six or seven cutlets, trim them, and fry them in a little butter till done; take them out, put them under a weight until cold, then place them on a flat dish and spread the liver mixture and a piece of pig’s caul over them. Make them hot in the oven, glaze, place them on a dish in a circle on a border of cooked spinach or mashed potatoes, put 4 b 2