151 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details rejecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Perch—continued. through a strainer, then stir into it a little butter and flour that has been kneaded together, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, black pepper, and essence of anchovy; stir it over the lire for a few minutes, then pour it over the fish, and serve at once. (2) Scale and clean a few Perch; thickly butter a flat stewpan and put the fish in it, arranging them one beside the other; season with pepper and salt, and cover them with white wine; sprinkle in a little chopped parsley, put the lid on, and boil the Perch over a brisk lire, so that when the fish are cooked, the liquid will be reduced to half its original quantity. Put the fish on a hot dish, thicken the cooking liquor with a piece of butter that has been worked up with a little flour, pour it over the fish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Scalloped Perch.—Pick some cold fish from the bones, and mix with it 1 teacupful of milk, \ teaspoonful of made mustard, a few drops of anchovy sauce, and salt and pepper to taste; put it into a small saucepan, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes. Turn the preparation into scallop- shells, sprinkle grated breadcrumbs thickly over them, put a few little pieces of butter on each, and brown them under a salamander. Put the shells on a dish, garnish round them with slices of lemon and parsley, and serve them hot. Watersouchet of Perch.—(1) Scale and clean four Perch, cut oft' the red fins, and keep them for future use. Put the Perch into a stewpan with a celery-root and carrot cut into small shreds, and a few sprigs of parsley; sprinkle in a little salt to taste, moisten to the height of the fish, &c., with white wine, and boil all over a sharp fire. When cooked, take the fish out with a skimmer, put them on a hot dish, stand them on their bellies, fix the red fins on the top (see Fig. 199), and keep the fish warm. Boil the cooking liquor till reduced to half its original quantity, garnish round the fish with the vege- tables, pour the sauce over, and serve with a sauceboatful of butter-sauce. (2) Scale and thoroughly clean the Perch, put it into a fish-kettle of boiling water with one onion, a bunch of parsley, It teacupfuls of milk, and a small quantity of salt, and boil it for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Put the Perch in a deep dish, put in with it the parsley and onion, and pour a little of the liquor over. Serve with a sauceboat- ful of parsley-sauce and some thin slices of brown bread- and-butter. PERCOELL.—This is a sort of stew prepared by the Hungarians, amongst whom it is held very highly in esteem, being declared by some to be their national stew. The following receipt is contributed by one of our staff: Cut up in squares lib. of lean veal and lib. of loin of pork. Thinly slice an onion, and put it in a flat stewpan with a piece of lard, half a bay-leaf, and a small quan- tity of paprica (a sort of pepper) sprinkled over; fry it lightly, then put in the meat, season with pepper and salt, and fry it for seven or eight minutes longer. Place the lid on the stewpan, put hot ashes on the top, stand it over a moderate fire, and cook the meat, giving it an occasional stir. Prepare a border of rice on a dish, turn the meat, &c., on to it, pour 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce over, and serve. PERIGORD FIE.—This pie is named after Perigord, formerly a province of France. It is made from truffles, Perigord Pie—continued. which are very plentiful in that locality. A very good Perigord pie can be made as follows: Cut off the meat from the breasts and wings of any game intended to be used, and prepare a forcemeat of the entrails of the birds, brown breadcrumbs, sweet herbs, spices, truffles, and bacon-fat. Line a pie-mould with paste; over this at the bottom and round the sides place slices of cooked ham; over these place a layer of the forcemeat, and then put in the game meat, filling up with rich consomme or melted aspic jelly. Place a layer of the ham on top, cover over with more of the paste, brush over with glaze, bake in a moderate oven, brush over with brown glaze wdien done, and serve cold. PERIGUEUX SAUCE.—See Sauces. PERIWINKLES (Fr. Bigomeaux).—The old Anglo- Saxon name from which the modern term is derived was pinewin cila, signifying any form of shell fish generally. The common European Periwinkle (Lit- torina littorea) (see Fig. 200) is very abundant along our shores, and has recently been introduced into America, where it seems to thrive consider- ably. Periwinkles are in season almost all the year round, and can be dis- tinguished from other shell fish of a similar character by the roundness and blackness of their shells. They require about twenty minutes’ boiling in salt water. Periwinkle Patties.—Boil some Periwinkles, pick them out of their shells, mince them fine, mix with them pepper, salt, and lemon-juice to taste, and moisten them with a little stock and a very small quantity of cream. Line some small patty-pans with puff paste rolled out very thin, put a good spoonful of the mixture in each, cover them with puff paste, trim the edges, and press them together. Brush the patties over with the beaten yolk of an egg, and bake them. Periwinkle Salad.—Put the fish in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, 1 wineglassful of vinegar, and four cloves, and boil them slowly for two hours. At the end of that time, drain the winkles, pick them out of their shells, cut them into halves, and put them in a salad-bowl. Prepare a plain salad-dressing of oil and vinegar, seasoned with pepper and salt, pour it over the winkles, and let them stand an hour. Wash a quantity of watercress, drain it thoroughly, anti put it into a salad- bowl; skin and bone three anchovies, cut them up, put them in the bowl with the watercress, and add the winkles: pour in the remainder of the dressing, garnish with hard- boiled eggs, and serve. PERRY (Fr. Poire).—A pleasant and wholesome liquor prepared from pears, in the same way that cider is prepared from apples (see Cider). It is said to be very wholesome, and makes an excellent champagne. The fruit from which it is generally prepared are so rough and harsh that they are only fit for this purpose or for cooking. Perry Jelly.—Beat up the white and shell of one egg with a little water, then put it in a saucepan with f pint of water, loz. of leaf gelatine, the rind and juice of one lemon, and 3oz. of sugar. Stir the mixture over the fire till boiling, and allow the scum to rise to the top. Move the saucepan off the fire, cover it, and let it stand for ten minutes. Make 1 pint of Perry warm, then mix it with the jelly; warm a jelly-bag by pouring hot water through it, then pour the jelly through several times till clear. Pour a layer of jelly in a mould, and leave it till set; then put in a layer of stewed pears cut into halves, pour another layer of jelly over them, and let this set. Fill