972 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. saucepan with 1 handful of capers, and heating thoroughly for five minutes without boiling. Boiled Leg of Mutton with Oyster Stuffing.—Remove the beards and uneatable parts from a dozen or so large oysters, parboil them, chop them up with boiled parsley, onion, and sweet herbs, and add the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs. Make five or six incisions in the fleshy part of a leg of Mutton, put in the stuffing, tie it up in a cloth, and boil in a saucepan with plenty of water for from two-hours-and-a-lialf, according to the size. When done remove the cloth, put the leg on a dish, and serve at once. Boiled Mutton Chops.—Cut off some chops from the neck end of Mutton and put them into a pan with a little salt and pepper dusted over them and sufficient water to cover. Place the pan over the fire, cover it, and let the con- tents simmer until done, then take them out, drain, and wipe them dry on a cloth; put a small piece of butter, salt, and pepper over them, and lastly cover with egg beaten quite stiff. Sprinkle with pounded crackers, and put them in a pan in the oven to brown. Boiled Mutton Ham. —Take a cured Mutton ham, wash it in cold water, and soak overnight. The next day drain it, put it over the fire in enough cold water to cover, let the water heat to the boiling-point, and then boil the ham gently, allowing twenty minutes for each pound. Half-an- liour before the ham is done, boil with it half-a-dozen peeled turnips or a head of cabbage first washed in cold water; or serve it simply with a dish of plain boiled potatoes. Boiled Neck of Mutton.—Saw down the chine-bone of a neck of Mutton, strip the ribs half-way down, take out the end bones, and turn the llap under; this will give the neck a good appearance when cooked. Put it into a saucepan of water, and boil; when done, take it out, drain, cover it thickly with well-seasoned breadcrumbs made into a mass with warmed butter and yolk of egg, place the Mutton in a Dutch oven, and roast in front of a clear fire until well browned. Serve hot. Boiled Shoulder of Mutton.—Rub a shoulder of Mutton well with salt and pepper, and stuff it with a forcemeat of herbs made without eggs; roll it up into an oval form, and tie into shape. Put it into a saucepan with a little broth or water, and add two sliced carrots and onions, a little fine herbs, a bay-leaf, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan over a slow fire or in a slack oven and cook gently, basting frequently. When it is nearly done remove the lid, if it is being cooked in the oven, and let it brown on the top. Take it out, put it on a dish, cut the bindings off, and keep it hot. Remove the fat from the gravy, boil it down to a strong glaze, pour it over the meat, and serve with tomato sauce poured round it or a cucumber sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Stuffed Breast of Mutton.—Put a knife in between the bones and flesh of a breast of Mutton, open it, dust over inside with salt and pepper, and stuff it with a mixture of fresh pork, breadcrumbs, parsley, onion, and mushrooms all finely chopped and seasoned with salt and pepper to taste. Sew up the cut, put it into a saucepan with some broth, and boil it gently until done. Take out, put it on a dish, and serve with a little Robert sauce. Braised Boned Haunch, of Mutton.—Bone the leg to the first joint and the loin of a haunch of Mutton cut to the height of the first ribs, sprinkle the inside with salt, and fasten it with string in a long shape. Cover the bottom of a long saucepan with sliced vegetables and trimmings of bacon, sprinkle slightly with salt, and pour over about 1 h pints of broth. Put the pan over a quick fire, reduce the liquor to a glaze, then pour in more broth to cover it; boil up quickly, remove the pan to the side of the fire, put hot ashes on the lid, and leave it where its contents can simmer gently for about five hours or so according to the age of the animal from which it was cut. When the meat is done, put it on a baking-sheet, add 1 wineglassful of white vine to the liquor, boil it up, take off all the Mutton—continued. fat, pass it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, reduce it quickly to half-glaze, and add a little brown or tomato sauce to thicken it. Put the haunch of Mutton on a dish, take away the string, cut the Mutton along the top into slices, but without removing them, put a ruffle on the bone, and serve with a garnish of small glazed onions put in heaps. Pour a little of the sauce round the dish, and send up the rest of it in a sauceboat. Mushrooms may be used instead of the onions if preferred. Braised Boned Leg of Mutton.—Bone a leg of Mutton on the cushion side only, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper, tie it up with thin string, and saw the bone off short. Put it into a saucepan with a little lard or melted bacon, place the pan over a slow fire, and fry it to a delicate colour, turning frequently ; take it out and put it on a dish. Cover the bottom of the pan with some onions and carrots chopped small, sprinkle the leg over with salt and pepper, cook for twenty minutes longer, and then add sufficient broth to moisten it to half its height. Put the pan over a slow fire, and when the liquor is well reduced add a little more (so that the Mutton can boil short of liquor). When the meat is cooked, take it out, put it on a dish, and reduce the liquor to half-glaze. Remove all the fat, add a little wine, and thicken with kneaded butter; mix all thoroughly, pour it over the leg through a strainer, and serve. Braised Boned Leg of Mutton a la Milanaise.—The following receipt is a favourite dish of the M ilanese, but the Italians of Rome and Naples are not so fond of it, as they consider it has a woolly flavour. Remove the knuckle from a leg of Mutton, and bone it as follows, from the thick end down to the first joint: Chop it off at the first joint, push in a knife near the joint to loosen the flesh, leaving the tendons and gristle on the bone; then commence at the small or tail end and scrape away the fat from the backbone and follow the bone up until the joint is arrived at, continuing in this way until all the bone is out. The cavity may be stuffed and sewn up at the thin end. Then bring the edges together at the upper end, pushing all the flesh inside, and sew the skin tightly together, which will give a rectangular form of solid meat and stuffing. To cut it straight down to the bone to take it out would spoil it and a lot of the juice or liquor would escape, and if sewn up it would be very unsightly, but by this way the juice is preserved and when the meat is cold it does not become dry or hard. Fill the cavity with a mixture of ham, bacon, mushrooms, garlic, egg, pepper, and bread- crumbs soaked in broth and squeezed quite dry. Sew up the place where it was cut so that the stuffing will not fall out, and put it in an earthenware stewpan with some fat bacon cut up and melted. Put the pan over the fire and fry the contents gently until it is of a light colour, turning frequently. Sprinkle over salt and pepper, add a few vege- tables cut in slices, and pour in 1 wineglassful each of white wine and broth. Cover with a round of paper, put some hot ashes on the lid, and braise for four hours or so, adding a little more broth every now and then, and "when done put it on a dish and keep hot. Add a little gravy or broth to the liquorin which it was cooked, boil it up, strain it, remove all the fat, and reduce quickly to half glaze, thickening it with a few table-spoonfuls of tomato Tig. 1216. Braised Boned Leg of Mutton A la Milanaise. sauce, keeping it quite light. Pour a little of the sauce over the leg, put the remainder in a sauceboat, garnish with potato croquettes and Brussels sprouts in piles (see Fig. 1216), and serve very hot.