TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 5 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dkc., referred to, see under their special heads. Nettles—continued. the water from the Nettles over them, and stir it with a wooden spoon until the sugar has dissolved. When nearly cold put in with the liquor 2 scant table-spoonfuls of fresh brewers’ yeast, cover the top of the tub with a board, and let the beer work for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time skim the yeast off the beer and bottle it. Great care must be taken against disturbing the sediment at the bottom. Cork the bottles with corks that ha\ e been soaked in boiling water for a few minutes, and tie down with string. In two days the beer will be fit for drinking. (2) Infuse 4qts. of green Nettles and a little dandelion and coltsfoot in ljgalls. of boiling water; let it get cold, strain off the liquor into a bowl, and add lib. of moist sugar and loz. of cream of tartar; let these dissolve, and then add £oz. each of crushed ginger and yeast, feet the bowl in a moderately-warm place where it will work for a day or so, skim carefully, and bottle. Cork securely, tie down, and in a few days the beer will be fit for use. Nettle Wine—Put 2|galls. of soft or river water into a saucepan with 6Jlb. of sugar, and boil; add the whites of two well-beaten eggs, and continue to boil for an hour, skimming frequently. Slightly bruise about 9qts. of the young tops of Nettles, put them in a bowl, pour over them the hot liquor, cover with a weighted cloth to exclude the air, and leave to cool. Then add 2 table-spoonfuls of yeast, stir well and frequently for three days, strain the liquor into a cask prepared to receive it, first putting at the bottom 2oz. of cream of tartar, lib. of stoned raisins, the thin rinds of two lemons, and lAoz. of broken white sugar candy ; let it remain with the bung out until fermentation has ceased. The cask should be of such a size that it will exactly hold the liquor, and it must be kept full during fermenta- tion. Pour in f pint of brandy, bung up securely, put the cask in a cool place for ten or twelve months, bottle oil, and in six or seven months the wine will be lit for use. Stewed Nettles.—Procure a quantity of green tops and leaves of young Nettles, wash thoroughly in water in which a little soda and salt have been dissolved, and dry them as much as possible; mince finely. Put the mince into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of moist sugar; moisten the whole with a little stock or water. Stew gently at the side of the fire until tender. When cooked, put in the sauce- pan a small lump of butter that has been kneaded with flour and \ table-spoonful of thick cream. Put some slices of toast on a hot dish, turn the Nettles on to them, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. NEWARK PUDDING.—See Puddings. NEW COLLEGE PUDDING.—See Puddings. NEW ENGLAND PANCAKES.—See Pancakes. NEW JERSEY TEA.—A pleasant aromatic beverage under this name is prepared from the leaves of Cean- othus americanus. It does not possess the exhilarating properties of China or Ceylon teas. NEWMARKET PUDDING.—See Puddings. NEWPORT WHIPPED CREAM.—See Cream. NEW-YEAR CAKES.—See Cakes. NEW ZEALAND MEAT. — See Australian Meat. NIBS—See Cocoa. NIGHTCAPS.—Although famous enough at one time when the custom was to settle down for a quiet hour after supper, the fashion of keeping late hours and the thirst for more active entertainment have placed our grandparents’ comforters at a discount. Nevertheless the two following are appended for the sake of those who prefer to follow the habits of our forefathers. See also Oxford Nightcaps. Nightcaps—continued. Grandfather’s Nightcap.—Beat the yolk of an egg with \ teaspoonful of porter spice, then stir in 1 gill of rum. Melt 1 dessert-spoonful of loaf sugar in 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water, and add this to the rum and egg, whisk- ing with a fork. Strain it into a large hot glass. Whip the white of the egg to a froth, and pour it on the top of the rum mixture. Serve with a spoon and stir smartly before drinking. Grandmother’s Nightcap.—The same as Grandfather’s Nightcap, substituting gin for the rum. NOCKEN.—A kind of dumpling made in various parts of Germany and very highly esteemed by the people. The following receipts have been contributed by a German chef. They are sometimes known as Noques, and are mostly served in soup. (1) Slightly warm 4oz. of butter, and beat it until creamy; then beat in gradually the yolks of six eggs and continue beating for twenty minutes. Stir in gradually with the beaten eggs sufficient flour to make a still' batter. Put in a stewpan 1A pints of milk, loz. of butter, 1 table- spoonful of sugar, and a small quantity of grated lemon- peel. When boiling, put in the mixture in table spoonfuls, but not too many at a time, as they must not touch each other in cooking. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents until the milk has almost entirely evaporated. Remove the lid, put caster sugar over the Nucken, and place in a brisk oven until they are nicely browned. When cooked arrange the Nocken on a hot dish over a folded napkin or dish-paper, and serve. (2) Slightly warm 2oz. of butter and beat it until1 creamy, then work in the yolks of four eggs, whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and mix the whole. Gradually stir in sufficient flour to make a thick batter, add a small quantity of salt, and spread the mixture out on a dish. In about an hour or less cut it into small oval-shaped pieces, using a table-spoon, and dipping it con- stantly in hot soup. Put the pieces in a saucepan of boiling soup and leave them until they rise to the top. When cooked, put the Nocken into a soup-tureen, pour the soup over them, and serve. (3) Put 2 handfuls of sifted breadcrumbs into a basin, pour over sufficient milk to moisten, squeeze dry, and beat well with a spoon. Put 6oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and gradually add the yolks of six or seven eggs. Work these well until quite frothy, then turn into the damp breadcrumbs and mix in a very small quantity of flour, salt, and grated nutmeg. When of the required consistency take up pieces with a table-spoon and drop them into slightly-salted boiling water. Boil the Nocken up once, remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, put on the lid, and let it stand for about ten minutes. When the Nocken are firm, take them out, drain them, cover with breadcrumbs fried dry in butter, put on a dish, and serve. (4) Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, and work to a cream, gradually adding the yolks of eight eggs. When it has a frothy appearance, sprinkle in C table- spoonfuls of flour and the well-whipped whites of six eggs. Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan on the fire, sweeten it, and flavour slightly with vanilla; when boil- ing drop in the mixture in the form of quenelles and poach them. Take the Nocken out, drain them, put them on a dish, dust over with caster sugar, glaze with a salamander or in the oven, and serve with a little vanilla cream poured over them. (5) Put All), of thin slices of uncooked ham in a mortar, pound it well, and add 5oz. of butter; rub this mix- ture through a fine sieve back into the mortar, season with salt and pepper, add about 9oz. of chou-paste finished with eggs, and grate over a little Parmesan. Pound the whole well, and drop it a little at a time into a saucepan containing Agall. of hot consomme. Boil the liquor up once, then remove the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it remain for two or three minutes. Take out the Nocken, put them in a tureen, pour the soup over, and serve.