THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 62 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Palates—continued. white wine. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, fry until done, arrange them on a dish with a garnish of fried parsley, and serve very hot, or they will be spoilt. Paupiettes of Ox-Palates.—(1) Cut oft'five or six fillets from some Ox-palates that have been cooked; trim, and cut them into halves. Have ready a salpicon of cooked fine herbs finished with trutHes and thickened with forcemeat, cover the fillets over with it, and roll them round into the shape of paupiettes, fastening them with small skewers. Dip them into well-beaten egg, cover with breadcrumbs, put them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until they are done. Take them out, drain, remove the skewers, place them on a napkin on a dish in the form of a pyramid, and serve. (2) Pare ten cooked fillets of Ox-palates, cut off a little from each end, cover them on one side with some uncooked forcemeat mixed with a quarter of its bulk of minced fat liver, roll the paupiettes into shape, secure them with string, and wrap them round with thin slices of bacon. Put them into a flat saucepan close together, pour over a little stock and white wine, place the pan on the fire, and cook them. When done, remove the string and slices of bacon, trim them, and glaze carefully. Have ready a moderately thick layer of forcemeat poached on a dish to form a round, put it on a dish, place the paupiettes in a circle, standing on their ends, round it, fill the cavity in the centre with cooked minced truffles, and serve. A sauceboatful of brown sauce reduced with truffles should accompany this dish. Pickled Ox-Palates.—Wash four Ox-palates, put them in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, three blades of mace, two or three cloves, and !qt. of water, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Boil the palates until quite tender (they will take about five hours), then drain and remove their skins, keeping them covered until cold. Put 1J pints of vinegar and an equal quantity of white wine into a saucepan with the mace that was previously boiled with the palates, four cloves, and a few peppercorns, and boil them for ten minutes ; then take the mixture oft' the fire and leave it until cold. Put the palates in an earthen- ware jar with two bay-leaves, five or six peppercorns, and a blade of mace, then pour the pickle oter them. Tie paper over the top of the jar, and keep it for use in a store cupboard. Rolled Ox-Palates. -Boil the palates until the skin may be easily peeled oft', then trim them, and chop the trim- mings. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a small stewpan and mix them over the fire, then put in the chopped trimmings, with 1 wineglassful of sherry, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of the liquor in which the palates were boiled, and let them simmer gently at the edge of the fire. Prepare a sufficient quantity of nicely-flavoured forcemeat to mask the palates with. Brush the outside of the palates over with a paste- brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, spread the forcemeat over them, roll up tightly, and tie them round with fine twine; lay them in a stewpan with a large lump of butter and milk to moisten to their height, and stew them very gently at the side of the lire for two hours. At the end of that time turn the trimmings and their gravy on to a hoT dish, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, lay the rolled palates on the top, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs and pickles, and serve. If any of the forcemeat is left after the palates are covered, it should be rolled into small balls, fried in butter, and placed round the dish. Stewed Ox-Palates.—(1) Wash six palates, put them in a bowl of warm water, and soak them for a few hours until thoroughly disgorged. When ready, skin the palates, put them in a saucepan with plenty of water, and stew until tender. Then drain and cut them into small pieces. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with I table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the lire until mixed ; then pour in 1J pints of veal broth, \ wineglassful of sherry, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 1 table-spoonful of burnt sugar colouring. Stir the liquor over the fire until boiling, then put in the palates, one onion peeled and stuck with three cloves, and a slice of lemon. Move the saucepan to the edge Ox-Palates—continued. of the fire, and keep the contents simmering for five hours. Prepare a dozen veal-forcemeat balls, put them in a flat stewpan with boiling fat, and fry until nicely browned. Put the balls on a sheet of kitchen-paper near the fire to drain for a minute or two. Put the palates on a hot dish when they are cooked, strain the gravy over them, garnish with the forcemeat balls, and serve. (2) Put the palates over the fire in a saucepan with sufficient milk to cover, and let them simmer till they will peel easily. When peeled, stew them till very tender in a fricassee sauce, adding to it a small quantity of cream, thickening it with flour and butter, and flavouring with mushroom powder and a very little pounded mace. Stewed Stuffed Ox-Palates.—Put four Ox-palates into a basin of salted water, wash them well, put them into a saucepan with more salted water, and boil for an hour. Take them out, scrape off the skin, reduce the liquor to a breakfast-cupful, and strain it into a basin. When the palates are quite cold, trim them and spread over them some good veal stuffing, roll them up into shape, and tie round with tape or string. Put a lump of butter into a sauce- pan, and when it has melted add a little flour, and cook until it is brown. Dip the palates into well-beaten egg, put them in the saucepan with the butter, and cook until they are brown also. Pour in the ^ pint of stock, toss the pan over the fire until the liquor boils, then remove it to the side to keep hot without boiling. Add 1 teaspoonful of ketchup to the liquor, take out the palates, remove the tape or string, arrange them on a dish in a circle, pour the liquor in the centre, and serve. Turban of Ox-Palates. Place the palates in lukewarm water until the blood has well disgorged, drain them, put them in a saucepan with sufficient fresh water to cover, and place them over the fire until they harden ; then plunge the palates into cold water and scrape the skins off. Boil the palates until tender in white stock, put them on a plate with a little of their cooking-liquor, cover with another plate, and leave them until cold. Prepare some veal force- meat, and make a border with some of it on a gratin- disli. Cut each palate into three pieces, trim them to an oval shape, cover them with the remainder of the force- meat, ihen roll them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Fio. 80. Turban of Ox-Palates. Arrange the palates in a crown on the border of forcemeat (see Fig. SO), and place the dish in a moderate oven ; in lialf-an-hour’s time, place a sheet of paper over the palates, and leave them in the oven for another quarter-of-an-hour. When ready, pour an Italian sauce over them, and serve while very hot. Vol-au-Vent of Ox-Palates. -Disgorge four Ox-palates in warm water, then put them in a saucepan with fresh cold water, and place them over the fire until they harden ; put them in cold water and scrape off all the skin. Return them to the saucepan with white stock to cover, and boil until tender. Then place them oir a plate with a few table- spoonfuls of the stock, cover with another plate, and leave them until cold. Prepare lib. of puff paste, giving it six turns, roll it out, and trim it to a round shape; mark the edges of the paste with the back of a knife. Sprinkle a little water over a baking-sheet, lay the paste on it, and brush the top over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg. Dip a knife in hot water, and with the point cut a circle half-way through the paste and about