965 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. put them into a saucepan with a little gravy and chopped parsley; sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and stew gently over a moderate lire for forty minutes. The gravy can he made by boiling the parings and stalks in water and when done straining and using instead of gravy. Beat six eggs up in a basin, add them to the mixture, pour the whole into buttered cups or moulds, bake in a quick oven, turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with a little white sauce. Stewed Mushrooms with Egg's.—(1) Peel about ljlb. of Mushrooms, and peel and chop a moderate-sized onion. Melt Jib. of butter in a lined stewpan, and put in the Mushrooms and onion with 2 table-spoonfuls of Mushroom ketchup, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg; season to taste with salt and pepper. Put the lid on the stewpan, and stew the contents gently for twenty minutes. Beat three eggs well and stir them Fig. 1208. Stewed Mushrooms with Eggs. in with the Mushrooms, but do not boil or they will curdle. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, pile the Mushrooms in the centre, garnish with slices of hard-boiled eggs (see Fig. 1208), and serve. (2) Peel and trim some Mushrooms; put them into a saucepan with a little butter, sprinkle them over with salt and pepper, and stew gently till quite tender. When quite done, put them into a shallow dish, with sufficient eggs to cover them—without breaking the yolks. Cover the top with fried breadcrumbs, salt, and pepper, and put them into a quick oven for live minutes or so, until the eggs are set but not quite hard. Put some crofttons of fried bread round the dish, and serve. Stewed Mushrooms for Garnish.—Clean aftd wash Jgall. of Mushrooms, and cut them with their stalks into slices about Jin. thick. Put Jib. of butter into a frying-pan on the fire, and when the butter is quite hot, without being coloured, add the Mushrooms, with a little salt and pepper, and toss them-for four minutes. Then sprinkle with loz. of flour, and toss them again for one minute longer; add 1 teacupful of broth, 1 table-spoonful each of minced parsley and shallot, and when they are of a light brown colour they are done and ready for use. Stewed Mushroom Stems.—Cut into rather small pieces the stems of Mushrooms which have been used either for baking or broiling; put them in a pan over the fire with 1 piled table-spoonful of butter to 1 pint of stems, together with a seasoning of salt and pepper, and stew gently until tender. Have ready a slice of toast, and serve the Mush- room stems on it; or mince them, and scallop them with an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and brown them in a hot oven. Stewed Mushrooms with White Sauce.—(1) Choose small Mushrooms just opening from the button. Pick, trim, and clean them well, then rinse them in cold water with a little salt in it ; pour this water off, and rinse them in fresh, drain them, and spread them out to dry. When the Mushrooms are dry, put them into a stewpan with about 2oz. of butter and a bunch of sweet herbs, and shake them a few times over the fire. Then take out the herbs, dredge the Mushrooms with flour, add a seasoning of pepper and salt and just enough gravy to moisten them, and let them simmer till they are sufficiently cooked. Beat up the yolks of four eggs with J pint of cream, add a little grated nutmeg, and stir this mixture of cream and Mushrooms—continued. eggs in with the Mushrooms. Put some pieces of toasted bread into a hot dish, pour the Mushrooms hot over them, and serve at once. (2) Pick and clean the Mushrooms, and if large cut each into four pieces, throwing them into a bowl of slightly- acidulated water. When all are done, diy them on a cloth. Put 2oz. or 3oz. of butter into a stewpan, and when melted put hi the Mushrooms with a small quantity of white stock, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity each of powdered sweet herbs and grated nutmeg. Boil the Mushrooms gently for about ten minutes, then move the stewpan to the edge of the fire and stir in quickly the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with the juice of a lemon, and strained. Turn the Mushrooms on to a hot dish, and serve. Tinned Mushrooms with Brown Sauce.—For a tin of Mushrooms, put into a saucepan 1 piled table-spoonful each of butter and flour. Stir them together over the fire until they begin to brown, then gradually mix in the liquor from the tin, together with water if any be needed to make the sauce of the proper consistency; add the Mushrooms, and season with salt, pepper, and a very little grated nutmeg. When the Mushrooms are hot stir in 1 wineglassful of sherry or Madeira, and serve as a vege- table. Toast may be served under the Mushrooms, or the sauce and Mushrooms may be poured on a dish with broiled beef-steak or broiled chicken, or with a baked or roasted tender loin of beef. Tinned Mushrooms with Cream Sauce.—After opening the tin, carefully drain the liquor or essence from the Mushrooms, saving it «to add to the sauce. Put into a saucepan over the fire 1 table-spoonful each of butter and flour, and stir them until they are smoothly blended, then gradually stir in the Mushroom essence or liquor from the tin, and add sufficient cream to make a sauce of the con- sistency of gravy. Put the Mushrooms into the sauce, season with salt and pepper, and when hot serve them as a vegetable. Toast may be served under them if desired. Tinned Mushrooms used in Sauce for Steaks.—Take about half a tin of Mushrooms (which will be quite suffi- cient for two large steaks), drain off the liquor, and fry them in a little butter, adding salt and pepper to taste. When done, put them on one side of the pan and add 1 teaspoonful of flour to the butter; rub it to a smooth paste, and when it is well browned add gradually the Mushroom-liquor, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of water. Shake in the Mushrooms, boil up, pour in the juice of a quarter of a lemon, and turn over the meat on a dish, and serve. MUSK.—What is known to confectioners under this name is an essence prepared from the contents of the Musk-bag of the Musk-deer. It yields a powerful, pleasing scent and a warm aromatic flavour. Musk Cakes (Turkish Receipt).—Mix lib. of wheat- starch to a thin batter with sufficient water; put Jib. of butter in a saucepan with 1 pint of boiling syrup, then mix in gradually the flatter, 4oz. of blanched and skinned almonds, and a small quantity of rose-water and Musk. Stir the mixture gently over a moderate fire until it begins to crumble, then turn it into a deep square dish, and smooth the surface with the back of a spoon or a spatula; leave it for a few minutes, then cut it into diamonds, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. Musk-flavoured Cream.—Put 6oz. of caster sugar into a basin, pour in 3 wineglassfuls of maraschino, and stir until dissolved, then mix in 3 table-spoonfuls of rose-water, a small quantity of Musk, and 1 Joz. of dissolved isinglass; stir the ingredients till well mixed, pour in 1 pint of whipped cream, and continue stirring for a few minutes longer. Turn the cream into a mould and pack it in ice, or leave it in a cool place until firm. Dip the mould in tepid water, turn the cream out on to a fancy dish, and serve. Musk Drops.—Take 21b. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, re- jecting any powder, as it will spoil the appearance of the