TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 165 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pickles—continued. for three days in pure cold water before cutting them up. Put the pieces of cucumber and cauliflower over the fire in water with a little salt in it, and let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Cut twelve small onions in quarters, put them in a little fresh milk-and-water over the fire, add a little salt, and let them cook till just tender, but not soft. Let cucumbers, cauliflower, and onions drain till next day, together with four bell peppers that have been steeped in weak brine for twelve or fourteen hours. Next day put them all into a pan, with toz. eacli of light coloured turmeric, celery seed rolled, and white mustard, 2oz. of the best English table mustard, and 1 saltspoonful of prepared cornflour blended with a little vinegar, and |lb. of loaf sugar. Add sufficient vinegar to cover, and let it boil till it begins to thicken. Let it cool a little, and then put it into glass jars with glass tops. PICNICS (Fr. Pique-niques; Ger. Picknicken).— Etymologists appear to have been in great doubt as to the origin and meaning of this word. It is of purely English origin, taking its rise from the word pick or peek, and knick, or knack—signifying literally to peck at knick- knacks, or trifles, or, in other words, to partake of a light repast or snack ; the latter word is undoubtedly a confused combination of snap and knack. The French, who pro- bably instituted the sociable meal, have two words in their language which exactly give the meaning, piquer, to peck, and niques, odds and ends or trifles. The general use of this word is probably owing to custom, which we find recorded as far back as the commencement of the present century, when persons were in the habit of meeting to- gether, either promiscuously or by arrangement, at friends’ houses, where dancing and eating were indulged in at the joint expense of those present. Failing the advantage of a friend’s house, the company would meet at an ap- pointed place in the country, where each one would supply something towards the feast. That is what we under- stand of a Picnic now-a-days. The chief drawback is that an unfortunate unanimity might prevail, producing an abundant supply of one class or kind of food only. Un- doubtedly a Picnic supplied by one person, that is under one direction or management, would be more likely to give satisfaction by its variety , but, as much amusement would necessarily be created by the disclosing of the individual supplies brought by a number of persons, without previously concerting as to what the supplies should be, there will always be found some to prefer the mirth thus created to the pleasures of an organised feast. The class of foods suitable for Picnics are those which are the most portable and require least trouble in serving and eating. Patties and pies, sandwiches, cold meats, and salads, are usually selected for this purpose, Every- thing of a savoury character should be previously boned and stuffed in such a manner that a slice cut off in almost any direction would be equal to the best, thus avoiding the necessity of careful carving. Baskets fitted with all the utensils necessary for a small party can be purchased, and are very compact and useful. Numerous receipts suitable for Picnic dishes are given throughout this Encyclopaedia. PIES (Fr. Pates ; Ger. Pasteten; Ital. Pastacci; Sp. Pastels).—The origin of the English word Pie seems to be one of great mystei-y, and some most extraordinary attempts have been made to give it a derivation. Not the least extraordinary, and yet the most probable, is that given by Kettner. He will not admit that Pie is a cor- ruption of pastie, as some of our greatest etymologists maintain, the word pastie or pasty having come into existence quite modernly. He believes Pie to be a com- pound corruption of the words Pain—a loaf, and Pied— foot. This he explains by the similarity of pronunciation Pies—co ntinued. between Pie and Pain, and the fact that Pies were formerly made in the shape of loaves instead of in dishes, of which our modern raised Pie may be considered an example. The connection between Pie and Pied is ex- plained by a very ancient custom of serving birds, such as pigeons, d pied—that is in such a manner that they would be eaten holding them by the feet. This would probably have been in those days when forks were un- known or not in general use, just as it was also customary to serve smaller birds or bits of meat strung on skewers or small spits (d la broche, or brochette), from which they were pulled off with the fingers to be eaten, and they are sometimes served in this way now. To support this ex- planation of the origin of the word Pie, Kettner reminds us that Pigeon Pies are to this day made with the feet stuck into the crust. Probably the bird was originally cooked with a crust round it, and the feet would then be left protruding for the convenience of the eater. Although these ingenious sugges- tions appear to be rather far- fetched, we should have no reason to doubt their accru'acy if the notion did not occur to one, that probably the word Pie may have been older than them all. To Alexis Soyer we are in- debted for the following very smart instructions for the manu- facture of Pie: He says, “ To make a Pie to perfection—when your paste (half puff or short) is carefully made and your dish or form properly full, throw a little flour on your paste-board, take about lib. of your paste, which roll into a strip with your hand until say an inch in circum- ference; then moisten the rim of your Pie-dish, and fix the paste equally on it with your thumb (see Fig. 214). When you have rolled your paste for the covering or upper crust, of an equal thickness throughout and in proportion to the contents of your Pie (|in. is about the average), fold the cover in two, lay it over one half of your Pie, and turn the other half over the remaining part; next press it slightly with your thumb round the rim, cut neatly the rim of the paste, form rather a thick edge, and mark this with a knife about every |in. apart, observing to hold Fig. 215. Pastry Leaf for Ornamenting Pie-crust.