TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 88 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Pancakes—continued. Snow Pancakes.—Put Jib. of sifted flour into a basin, and mix with it the grated peel of a small lemon, 1 teaspoon- ful of salt, and sufficient milk to make a rather thick batter, which beat well with a wooden spoon. Put a small piece of butter or lard into a frying-pan, and place it oyer a clear fire. Beat up very quickly 1 table-spoonful of fresh snow with each Pancake, and fry them until lightly browned on both sides; then drain them as free from fat as possible. Spread a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, lay the Pan- cakes on it, first dredging with caster sugar and folding them over, and serve at once. Stuffed Pancakes with Fruit.—Warm 2oz. of butter and beat it until creamy; mix it with four eggs, loz. of sugar, J pint of warmed milk, and a small quantity of salt; then stir in sufficient flour to make a thin batter, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed currants and the grated peel of half a lemon. Put loz. of butter into a frying- pan, melt it, and pour in a very thin layer of the batter; when browned on one side, turn it over quickly and brown the other. Continue in this way until all the batter is used, putting in more butter when wanted, but not using too much. As each Pancake is cooked, spread over a thin layer of any kind of preserved fruit, roll it up, arrange on a hot dish over which has been spread an ornamental disli-paper, sift over caster sugar and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon, and serve. Stuffed Pancakes with Ham.—Finely mince Jib. of cooked ham and add it to 1 breakfast-cupful of thick sour cream. Beat 2oz. of warmed butter, then mix with it four well- beaten eggs. Put 1 teacupful of flour into a basin with a small quantity of salt, and stir in the beaten eggs to- gether with | pint of warm milk. Put a him]) of butter in a frying-pan, melt it, then pour hi a thin layer of the batter, and fry it until nicely browned on one side; then turn it over and fry the other. Proceed in this way until all the Pancakes are cooked. Mask each Pancake with a thin layer of the ham mixture, roll up, cut them into strips about fin. thick, and lay them in a thickly-buttered dish. Beat two eggs and \ pint of milk, season with a small quantity of salt, and pour them over the Pancakes. Put the dish in a moderate oven and bake until the custard has set. Serve while very hot. Stuffed Pancakes with Herbs.—Put into a stewpan with a lump of butter, some finely-chopped parsley, chives, thyme, and any other green herbs that may be liked, using them in equal quantities. Put the lid on the pan, place it over a slow fire until the herbs are soft, then mix with them a small quantity of chopped ham. Beat five eggs together with a little more than \ pint of milk and 3oz. of warmed butter; stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a thin batter, keeping it smooth. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan, and fry the batter in small quantities, letting it run in a thin layer over the pan. When all the Pancakes are cooked and lightly browned on each side, mask each with a thin layer of the herb mixture, on one side only, and roll them up. Lay the Pancakes side by side in a stewpan, placing them close together so that they will not unroll, pour in just sufficient broth to cover the bottom of the pan, put on the lid, and stew them slowly at the side of the lire for twenty minutes. Drain them, arrange them on a lace-edged dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. PANDANUS WINE.—See Ava-fara. PAN-DOWDY.—This is the eccentric name given to a deep pie or pudding made of baked apples, or of sliced bread and apples baked together, with no bottom crust. The following is a good receipt for it: Peel, core, and quarter about 21b. of cooking apples, put them in a basin, cover them with a light bread dough that has been rolled out, and bake in a brick oven. When the apples are cooked, remove the crust and stir in with them 2 or .3 table-spoonfuls of molasses, a small quantity each of powdered cinnamon and grated nutmeg, and loz. of butter broken up into small bits. Put a plate over the basin, return it to the oven, and bake for three hours longer. Serve while hot. PANTRY- Although in all Continental kitchens this is practically included in what is termed the office of the kitchen, in England it is usually associated with the larder, as a chamber especially adapted for storing food. The word is evidently derived from the Latin panis— bread. See Larder. PAP.—Any soft food for infants. PAPARE TTA. — A wine made in Piedmont, a province of Italy. PAP AW.—A tree of tropical America belonging to the order Passiflorece. The milky juice of the plant is said to have the property of making meat tender. Its dull, orange-coloured, melon-shaped fruit is eaten raw, cooked, or pickled. FAPBOAT.—A kind of sauceboat or dish. PAPER (Fr. Papier; Ger. Papier; Ital. Carta; Sp. Papel).—In every kitchen Paper is occasionally useful. Cooks use it for tying round delicate meats to be baked or roasted; for covering pies and other pastry that require cooking thoroughly before browning; for lining cake-tins; for covering jams; for making cases to hold small birds, cutlets, and ramekins; for covering cutlets, fish, and other things prepared for grilling or broiling, as en papillote; for making frills to fasten round cutlet- or ham-bones, or the shank-bones of haunches ; to fold round cakes and other delicacies; and to make those ornamental dish- papers which are used instead of the folded napkin. Considerable ingenuity is exercised by some cooks in the use of Paper, either for cooking or for ornamentation; but, in a general way, lace-edged dish-paper frills and cases can be bought ready made, and at such a small cost that cooks prefer to use them, especially as they are so much more accurately made by machinery than it would be pos- sible to construct them by hand (see Plate illustrating Paper Cases and Ornaments). Nevertheless, as it may sometimes happen that these ready-made goods are unattainable, it is as well for the cook to understand how to make them, should occasion, under such circum- stances, require their use. When lining cake-tins—a thin white or wliitey-brown Paper does for this—two or three flats should be cut to the shape of the tin, and laid at the bottom; a long strip, rather wider than the side of the tin, is then to be laid accurately round, so that one edge touches the bottom flats, and the other extends above the sides (see No. 1 on Plate illustrating “ Home-made Paper Frills and Cases ”) preventing the cake from overflowing as it rises. For covering foods to be cooked no special instructions are required, as the cook cuts the shapes to suit the parti- cular purpose out of a common note or foolscap Paper. Frills are made by folding a strip of thin Paper—coloured perhaps—and cutting into it very evenly a little way through the folded margin (see No. 2). By turning the back of the strip over the front (see No. 3) a single frill results. Two or three strips can be served in the same way, and laid over each other, forming a very elegant ornamentation (see No. 4). When making the incisions they may be cut (instead of straight) either slanting, zigzag, or scalloped, and will, when made up, have a very pretty effect, according to the arrangement adopted. In making Paper cases a somewhat stiffer Paper is required, something of a thin cartridge, with an even smooth surface. A very good square or oblong case can then be made by cutting a sheet of Paper to the required size, which will be the size of the bottom, plus the height of the sides (see No. 5). When the sides are bent over one at a time along the dotted line, the case is easily formed by pinching up the corners, and fastening them with a needle and thread (see No. 6). Round, oval, or cutlet-shaped cases require blocks to fold them on. These blocks are merely wooden columns (see No. 7) about Sin. or 4in. long, which can be made fast to a bench or table by a thumbscrew (see No. 8) passing through the table and entering some two