7 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. N ougat—continued. well, and put the paste on sheets of wafer-paper spread over a baking-sheet in the form of small ovals. Put them into a very moderate oven, and dry them steadily. They will be ready for use when firm. Take care to keep them as white as possible. (3) Put a little orange-flower water into a saucepan with 14oz. of honey, and boil to the ball degree (see SUGAR- BOILING). In the meantime, whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and add 21b. of blanched and finely-chopped sweet almonds and jib. of caster sugar, and beat them together with the honey into a smooth paste. Put a sheet of wafer-paper on a board, spread the paste over to .about tin. thick, cover it with another sheet of wafer-paper, and put another board on the top with a weight on it. When quite cold, cut into shapes, and it is ready for use. (4) Blanch about 12oz. of filberts, halve them, put them on a baking-sheet, and slightly colour them. Put 6oz. of sugar into a boiler, and boil to the caramel (see Sugar-boiling), then stir in the halves of filberts, taking care not to break them, and having them equally covered. Turn the whole out on to a well-buttered baking- sheet, spreading it out quickly, and dust over with sugar and chopped and dried pistachios. When cool, cut into any desired shape, and use as required. The Nougat may be flavoured with melted chocolate if liked. (5) Blanch 5oz. of sweet almonds, and cut them into fine threads. Roast the kernels of 3oz. of Spanish nuts, and peel them. Chop the nuts and Hoz. of candied lemon- peel, then mix them with the almonds and fib. of caster sugar. Whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, stir them into the other ingredients, anti work all to a paste. Spread the Nougat on a sheet of wafer-paper, cover with another sheet of the same paper, press well between two sheets of iron or tin, and put the paste in the oven for thirty minutes. Leave the Nougat till cold before cutting it up. (6) Put 14oz. of honey into a saucepan with a small quantity of orange-flower water and boil to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling). Whip the whites of two eggs to a stitt' foam, mix them in with the honey, add 21b. of blanched and chopped sweet almonds and 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and colour with a few drops of cochineal. Spread the Nougat on a sheet of wafer-paper, lay a sheet of wafer-paper on top, and press into a solid block between two sheets of tin or iron. When cold, cut the Nougat into any desired shape. (7) Have ready 4oz. of peeled and dried almonds. Cut each almond into four slices, and lay them in a tin pan with a sheet of paper under them. Put the pan in a warm place but not on the stove. Take a copper sugar- pan, or dropper, put into it 6oz. of powdered sugar, and place it on a hot stove ; then with a dry wooden spatula stir continually until the sugar is dissolved, being careful to avoid browning it. Remove from the fire, add 1 drop of lemon-juice, and let it cool slightly for three minutes, stirring constantly. Add the almonds, and mix all gently with the spatula for two minutes. The Nougat is then ready for use. (8) Blanch 4lb. of almonds, and put them in a cool oven where they will dry and keep slightly warm. Put 21b. of caster sugar into a copper pan, pour in lib. of white honey, put the pan on the fire, skimming frequently, and as soon as it begins to boil add 4 table-spoonfuls of wheat syrup and a few drops of citric acid. When the sugar is at the crack degree (see SUGAR-BOILING), remove the pan to the side of the fire, add a few drops of extract of roses or orange-flower water, and a very little vegetable carmine; turn the whole out on to a well-oiled marble slab, and with a flat spoon scrape it all into the centre until it forms a mass that can be easily worked. Take it up in the bands, and work it on a hook in the same way as for twisted sugar (see SUGAR), but without allow- ing it to get cold, and working in the almonds and 2 handfuls of soaked pistachio-kernels. Have ready a low square-shaped wooden case spread with large slips of wafer-paper, put the mixture in, smoothing it over on the top so as to give it an equal thickness of about 2in., and cover over with more wafer-paper. Put the lid on N ougat—continued. the case with a heavy weight on the top so as to push the Nougat close down, let it remain for about ten minutes, turn it out of the case, divide it into long squares, cutting it in pieces with the aid of a crescent-shaped cleaving-knife. This kind of Nougat is largely made in Provence and is prepared there to perfection. Nougat -with. Apricots.^Roll out £lb. of puff paste to -Jjin. in thickness, and bake it in the oven until done. Take it out, and when quite cold spread over apricot jam to about lin. in thickness. In the meantime put 1,11*. of well-chopped and dried sweet almonds into a basin with 8oz. of caster sugar and the whites of three eggs beaten to a snow, mix them thoroughly, and spread the mixture over the jam. Put the sheet of paste, &c., into a moderate oven, and let it remain until firm and slightly browned. Take it out, and when quite cold cut them into pieces or squares; put them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve. Nougat Baskets.—(1) Blanch 141b. of almonds, cut them into shavings, and place them near the fire to thoroughly dry and to be warmed through. Put fib. of the best confectioners’ sugar over a moderate fire with just enough water to keep it from burning, keep stirring it till the sugar begins to bubble, then stir in the almonds, mixing them well into the sugar. Have ready some well-oiled shallow moulds, line them with the Nougat, nicely trim the edges with a good-sized pair of scissors, notch the edges, and when the Nougat is quite cold take them out of the shapes, and fill up with whipped Fig. 7. Nougat Baskets. cream, laying a strawberry on top. Small handles made of candy may be put across each. See Fig. 7. (2) Blanch If lb. of sweet almonds, cut them into long strips, and dry thoroughly in a warm oven for five or six hours. Take half the weight of the almonds (when they are dry) of sugar, put it into a sugar-pan, add the juice of two lemons, and stir well over the fire until the sugar is all dissolved. Boil quickly for a few minutes, but without letting it take colour ; remove the pan to the side of the fire, and add the almonds. Have ready a basket-mould in three parts, oil well, and spread the mixture quickly over, thinly but evenly, seeing that it is quite cool before taking it off the mould. Spread a charlotte-mould over with the remainder of the paste, and fix it firmly upside down on a dish. Fix the bottom part of the basket on the charlotte- mould, and adorn the upper edge of the basket first with a border of puff paste baked lightly and then with a circle of preserved greengages glazed with sugar, fixing two rings of gum paste for handles. Surround the base of the mould with a circle of small cakes, fill the hollow of the basket with vanilla ice cream, and it is ready for use. This makes a handsome table ornament, but requires great experience to prepare. Nougat Cream-Ice.—Put the Nougat in a mortar with 2 table-spoonfuls of orange-flower water and pound it. Put the yolks of eight eggs in a saucepan with 14 pints of cream and 12 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and heat them. Mix the bruised Nougat and three drops of essence of peach-kernels with the milk and eggs, and stir the whole over the fire till on the point of thickening. Pass the mixture through a fine hair sieve into a basin and leave till cooled. When ready, turn the Nougat cream into the freezer, and freeze it. The cream can lie served as it is, or may be turned into a mould and packed in ice for about two hours. Before serving, the mould should be dipped in warm water, wiped, and the contents turned out on to a fancy dish. Nougatinas.—Blanch and finely chop 111*, of sweet almonds. Put 21b. of powdered white sugar and the strained juice