69 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads Oxford Night-Caps—continued. Don by way of a Night-Cap, and probably derives its name from the circumstance of ancient dignitaries of the Chnrcli, when they honoured the university with a visit, being regaled with spiced wine. It appears from a work published some years since and entitled “ Oxoniana; or, Anecdotes of the University of Oxford,” that in the rolls or accounts of a college of ancient foundation, a sum of money is frequently met with charged “pro speciebus,” that is, for spices used in their entertainments; for in those days, as well as at the present, spiced wine was a very fashionable beverage. Three cups of this a prudent man may take ; The first of these for constitution’s sake, The second to the girl he loves best, The third and last to lull him to rest. Make several incisions in the rind of a lemon, stick cloves in the incisions, and roast the lemon by a slow fire. Put small but equal quantities of cinnamon, cloves, mace, and allspice, into a saucepan with | pint gf water, and let it boil until reduced one half. Boil a bottle of port wine, burning a portion of the spirit out by applying a lighted paper to it. Put the roasted lemon ami spice into the wine, stir well, and let it stand near the fire for ten minutes. Rub a few pieces of sugar on the rind of j a lemon, put the sugar into a bowl or jug with the juice j of half a lemon (not roasted), pour the vine over, grate I some nutmeg into it, sweeten to taste, and serve with the | lemon and spice floating in it. | Oxford Grace Cup.—The ancient grace cup was a vessel proportioned to the number of the company | assembled, the guests drinking out of the same cup one ! after another. Virgil describes something like it when j speaking of the entertainment Queen Dido gave to vEneas. It has been the custom from time immemorial, at the civic feasts in Oxford, for the grace cup to be inti-oduced before the removal of the cloth, when the Mayor receives the cup standing; his right and left hand guests also rise from their seats while he gives a toast, which since the Reformation has been “ Church and King.” The cup is then handed round the table, no one presuming to apply his lips to it until two persons have risen from their seats. The origin of this custom is ascribed by our antiquaries to the practice of the Danes heretofore in England, who frequently used to stab or cut the throats of the natives while they were drinking, the persons standing being the sureties that the one holding the cup should come to no harm while partaking of it. Extract the juice from the peel of a lemon, and cut the remainder into thin slices; put it into a jug or bowl, and pour over it 11 pints of strong home-brewed beer and a bottle of mountain wine; grate a nutmeg into it, sweeten to taste, stir it till the sugar has dissolved, and then add three or four slices of bread toasteil brown, bet it stand for two hours, then strain it off into the grace cup. OXFORD PUNCH.—See Punch. OXFORD SAUSAGES.—See Sausages. OYSTERS (Fr. Huitres; Ger. Austern; Hal. Ostrice; Sp. Ostras).—“Please to remember the grotto” has been for many years regarded as the introductory signal of the Oyster season, although as a matter of fact these grottos refer to a pilgrimage to a certain grotto which they are supposed to represent, the requested monetary contribution being for the purpose of paying the expenses of the pilgrimage. Oysters are in season eight months of the year, the four “close” months being May, June, July, and August: the other months having the letter r in their spelling, accounts for the saying that Oysters are in season when there is an r in the month. The Oyster (Ostrea edulis) is found on almost every coast, being specially cultivated in certain localities, and yielding enormous crops, as it is estimated that one Oyster alone Oysters—continued. produces in one year from three thousand to four thousand young. The system of cultivation has been brought to great perfection, and the superior kinds of Oysters care- fully preserved from the contamination of inferior sorts. Of the varieties of Oysters, that which holds the foiemost place in the estimation of the gourmet is the English native. This kind has a historic reputation, for it is recorded that when the Romans landed upon our shores they eagerly sought for the luscious British native. The green Qyster of Ostend is much prized by Continental epicures; but the British Oyster-eater has an erroneous notion that the green colour is due to the presence of copper, whereas it has been plainly shown by chemical experts that the green colour is entirely due to the food upon which it subsists. Of the numerous kinds of Oysters sold in our markets, it is only necessary to state that those possessing the smallest, smoothest, and cleanest-looking shells, from the high-class native down to the lowest type, are the best flavoured. For serving plain no Oyster excels the British native (see Fig. 85), but for cooking a coarser and, cheaper kind may be used with almost as good results