THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 173 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. over that the remainder of the forcemeat. Close the two halves of the head together, sew them up tightly with strong thread, and bind round the snout. Cover the back of the head with a piece of well-soaked bladder, sewing it securely on. Put the hones of the head and three or four calf's feet in a deep stewpan, put in the head, cover it with water, add a root of celery, two hay- leaves, a few shallots and cloves, a small hunch of sweet herbs, and 1 teacupful of the best white vinegar. Boil the head very gently for three hours, then take it off the fire and leave it in the stewpan until cold. Take the head carefully out of the stewpan, remove the bindings and threads, brush the head over with melted meat glaze, and leave it until it has set. Cut a slice off the neck part of the head so that the contents may be clearly seen, put it on a dish, arrange a circle of green bay-leaves and jelly crofltons round, and serve. Hashed Pig’s Head.—Put the head, feet and haslet (see Haslet) of a Pig into a saucepan with a little water, and boil until quite tender. Take them out, cut them up fine, and remove the bones. Put back in the saucepan, together with two onions chopped small, 1 teaspoonful each of mace and cloves, a little cayenne, powdered sage, and salt and pepper. Set the pan on the fire again, and cook the contents until the whole is done; then thicken it with a small quantity of flour, add two hard-boiled eggs cut into slices, and t pint of walnut ketchup. Turn it out on a dish, and serve. Pig’s-Head Cheese.—Thoroughly clean a Pig’s head, split it into halves, take out the eyes and brains, cut off the nose and ears, and pour scalding water over the latter and the head, and scrape them clean. Then rinse all in cold water, and put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil gently, taking off the scum as it rises. When boiled so that the bones leave the meat readily, take them from the water and put them into a large wooden bowl or tray. Remove every particle of bone, chop the meat small, and season to taste with salt and pepper, and, if liked, a little chopped sage or thyme. Spread a cloth in a sieve, set it in a deep dish, put in the meat, then fold the cloth closely over it, lay over a plate with a weight on it, which will press equally the whole surface. Let the weight be more or less heavy according as the cheese is to be fat or lean; a heavy weight by pressing out the fat will of course leave the cheese lean. When cold, scrape off whatever fat may be found on the outside of the cloth, and keep the cheese in the cloth in a cool place. It should be sliced thin, and can he eaten with or without mustard and vinegar or ketchup. Pig’s-Head Cheese Salad.—Cut some Pig’s-head cheese into thin small squares; wash some lettuces, pull the leaves apart, and put them in a salad-bowl with a few dandelion- leaves, arranging the pieces of meat on the top. Boil an egg till hard, leave it till cold, then peel and finely-chop it, and sprinkle the egg all over the salad. Mix some vinegar and oil together, allowing the latter to predomi- nate, season the mixture with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve it. This is a far better way of serving Pig’s head cheese than the unsightly method generally adopted. Pig’s Head in Jelly.—Clean a small Pig’s head, put it in a saucepan with the feet, also cleaned, and two calf’s feet, one onion and a bunch of sweet herbs; season with salt and pepper, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and moisten to height with water; put the saucepan over the lire until boiling, then move it to the side and keep the contents simmering for two or three hours, or until the meat is soft. When cooked, take the head and feet out of the liquor and remove all the bones, cut the meat into small pieces, and mix with it a small quantity of roast meat, and any remains of cold cooked tongue or poultry. When the cooking liquor has partly cooled, skim off all the fat, strain it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the sauce- pan, and boil until it is reduced to the consistency of thick jelly. Put the meat into the liquor with a few pickled gherkins and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, and season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg Pigs —continued. or mace. Stir the mixture over the fire until thoroughly hot. Coat the inside of a mould with a small quantity of clear gelatine; arrange at the bottom a design cut out of pickled beetroot, and around the edges finely-minced parsley and the separated yolks and whites of hard-boiled eggs. Over these articles place a thin layer of the mince, being careful not to disarrange them; leave it until set, then fill the mould up with the remainder, pack the mould in ice, or let it stand for one night in a cool place, as the contents must not be turned out until well set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the head out on to a dish that has been em- bellished with a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, and garnish with a few sprigs of well-washed parsley. Fig’s-Head Pudding.—Cut a boiled Pig’s head into small pieces, put it into a saucepan with the liver of the Pig, also boiled and cut up, pour over a little warm water, add a small quantity of butter, a small onion finely chopped, and salt and pepper to taste. When the mixture is warmed, turn it out into a baking-dish and stir in a well- beaten egg ; put the dish in a hot oven, bake for two hours, take it out, put some slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top, and lay strips of puff paste over the whole. Bake until the paste is done, then take it out and serve. Potted Pig’s Head.—Clean a Pig’s head thoroughly, wash- ing it in strong salt and water ; put it linto a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil gently. When very tender, so that the bones can easily be removed, drain the head, separate all the meat from the bones, and pass the cook- ing liquor through a fine hair sieve. When the liquor is quite cold, skim off the fat, and pour the liquor into a saucepan, being careful not to disturb the sediment. Cut the meat into moderate-sized pieces, put it in with the liquor, and boil for half-an-hour, seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of Jamaica pepper. Pour the meat and liquor into moulds, leave until cold, then tie stout paper over the tops. It may be kept for six weeks in a cool cupboard. Pressed Pig’s Head.—Take the different parts of the head of a Pig as well as the feet, and boil them all in separate pans. When they are done and quite tender, take them out, and while they are still warm separate the meat from the bones and chop it up fine; sprinkle over with salt, pepper, and spices to taste. Put it all into a strong bag, place a weight on the top, and when the meat is cold put it on a dish, cut it in slices, and either fry it or pour vinegar over it, and serve. After the parts have been separated, before boiling, they should be put in salted water for twenty-four hours. Roasted Pig's Head.—Clean a Pig’s head, put it into a saucepan of water, and boil it over a clear fire until quite tender, when the bones will come out easily. Take it out, drain, and rub it over with toz. of powdered sage, mixed with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 2 table-spoonfuls of pepper. After the bones are taken out, put it in front of a clear fire and roast for thirty minutes, basting frequently with the drippings from it mixed with a little warmed butter. When done, put it on a dish on a bed of boiled cabbage (see Fig. 226), thicken the gravy slightly with flour, strain it over, and serve with apple sauce in a sauceboat.