130 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads. Peas—continued. them; put them into a saucepan with plenty of fresh water and boil until tender. When cooked, drain all the water off the Peas and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Beat the Peas up together with a lump of butter, the yolks of two eggs, and salt and pepper to taste. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, tie a cloth over the top, and put it into a saucepan of boiling water. Boil the pudding for two hours, then turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Tie 1 pint of split Peas loosely in a cloth, leaving them plenty of room to swell; put them in a saucepan of water and boil gently for about three hours. When cooked, turn the Peas on to a fine hair sieve and rub them through with the aid of a wooden spoon. Beat well in with the Peas two eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and loz. of butter, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture into a cloth, tie it up tightly, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for lialf-an- hour. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve. Peas Soup.—(1) Put over the fire in 4qts. of water or broth a ham-bone, bones of roasted beef or mutton, two heads of celery washed aud trimmed, four onions peeled, and l|lb. of split Peas. Let it boil till the Peas are quite soft, take out the bones, and mb the Peas and vegetables through a sieve, return them to the soup, add salt and pepper to taste, and boil it for an hour, skimming when required. Spinach or green Peas added when the bones are taken out improves the soup very much. (2) Put 6 breakfast-cupfuls of split Peas into a sauce- pan with a small lump of butter, salt to taste, and more than sufficient cold watei to cover them; put in a slice or two of lean ham and simmer gently for about two hours. Take out the ham, mb the Peas through a fine sieve into another saucepan, add the required quantity of consomme, and boil for an hour to clarify it. Put a little spinach colouring at the bottom of the tureen, remove the saucepan with the purde of Peas from the fire, stir in a little sugar and butter, pour it gradually into the tureen, stirring well, and serve with pieces of toasted bread. (3) Without Meat.—Boil \ pint of split Peas in 3qts. of water for three hours, then fry in dripping a carrot, scraped, washed, and cut in slices, two onions peeled and sliced, and a head of celery washed and cut up; add them to the boiling Peas, together with pepper and salt to taste, and simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-half. (4) Imitation.—Put a saucepan containing some well- flavoured stock on the fire, season to taste with herbs, especially mint, and add sufficient revalenta Arabica or other farina to make it of the consistence of thin cream. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve with pieces of toasted bread. A little butter or thick cream may be added if desired. (5) It may be made by mixing some revalenta with water, or milk and water in equal parts, and stirring in some extract of meat, and salt and pepper to taste. PEAFOWL (Fr. Paons; Ger. Psauen; Ital. Pavona; Sp. Pavoes).—These very beautiful birds do not often find their way to the table, nor, according to some, is this much to be regretted. The flesh is tough, having something of the flavour of the pheasant, if properly hung. The great attraction of the male bird is its beautiful plumage, which proved too great a temptation for some of our old time cooks, who stuffed the carcase of the bird with savoury meats, and dressed the cooked body in its gaudy plumage stripped from the bird together with the skin soon after death. It is usual to leave the head on, feathers and all, and to wrap it round with several folds of paper to prevent it being spoiled in the cooking. This custom was not practised by our ancestors, who served the peacock at Christmas; they preferred to skin the bird as before mentioned, and then the whole plumage, head, feathers, and tail could be mounted beforehand, and all set on the cooked bird at once. See Pig. 179. The Peafowl, either peacock or peahen, can be cooked in every respect like the pheasant; but the two following receipts are especially recommended: Peafowl.—continued. Braised Peacock.—.The bird should not be plucked, but carefully skinned, so as not to disturb the plumage. Care should also be taken not to disturb the neck and head. Cover the bird with slices of bacon seasoned with finely-chopped parsley, chives, shallots, half a head of garlic, sage, thyme, grated nutmeg, and salt and pepper. Put some slices of bacon at the bottom and round the sides of a braising-pan, put in the bird, cover it with more bacon, and moisten with equal quantities of water, white wine, and stock. Put round the peacock some pieces of knuckle of veal, a few carrots, turnips, a parsnip, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few cloves and peppercorns, and some mixed spices. Put the lid on the braising-pan and let the contents simmer for four hours. When cooked, take the bird out, leave it till cold, then put the plumage on in its original position, raise the head and neck with a piece of wire, spread out the tail in a fan shape, and serve. Boasted Peahen.—Trass a young peahen, lard its breast and legs, stuff it with a veal or turkey forcemeat, fix it on a spit, and roast it for an-hour-and-a-half in front of a clear fire. Put the bird, when cooked, on a hot dish, remove the buttered paper from the head, glaze the body, pour a little rich brown gravy round it, garnish with watercress, and serve with a sauceboatful of bread sauce. Fie. 180. Pea-nuts; PEA-NUTS.—The remarkable plant (Arachis hypogsea) which bears Pea-nuts is said to be a native of the western coast of Africa; but it is now cultivated very extensively