120 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fig. 163. Cornucopia. designs made for all sorts of savoury contents, such as game, pork, veal and ham, or pigeon. The Paste eroustade (see Pig. 171) is made in the same way as the raised Fig. 167. Hot-closet. Genoese Pastry.—(1) Warm 4oz. of fresh butter, beat it, then mix in 4oz. of caster sugar and whip the two together until creamy; beat in, one at a time, four eggs, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. circular motion while pressing lightly upon the balls beneath. The manufacture of Paste puddings is described under Paste and Pastry—continued. pie, but its application is somewhat different and more varied. Fig. 160. Vol-au-Vent. various headings in this Encyclopaedia, so also is the ordi- nary pie; but the savoury raised pie (see Pig. 169), with its concomitant decorations and garnishes is regarded by Fig. 161. Paste Bird’s Nest. all pastrycooks as a work worthy of a master hand. For the preparation of the crust and its ornamental appearance the pastrycook is indebted to the metal mould-maker, who Fig. 165. Plan of making Pastry Cannelon. Genevese Pastry.—Make a Genoa Paste adding a little chopped candied orange, or citron-peel and 1 teacupful of brandy. Spread the Paste over a baking-sheet, level it off with a knife, and bake. When done, with tin cutters cut Fig. 162. Paste Walnut. has provided an apparatus that enables the cook to look with pride upon his work; these are known as raised pie moulds (see Pig. 170), of which there are numerous Fig. 16a. Cornucopia-mould. The following receipts may be considered a useful addition to the examples already described: French Pastry.—Several varieties of this will be found under different headings. See Puff Paste (Feuilletage), page f 14. Fig. 166. Pastry-wire (Mathews and Son). it into any shapes desired, then spread a sheet of paper over another baking sheet, arrange the cakes on it, and brown them on both sides in the oven. /"■V r