the encyclopedia of practical cookery. 178 Pigeons—continued. pan, and keep it hot. Roll the pieces of Pigeons in warmed butter, then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire, browning both sides equally. Put the Pigeons on a hot dish, garnish round with slices of lemon, and serve with the gravy in a sauceboat. Broiled Pigeons en Fapillotes.—Clean the Pigeons, put them into a stewpan with chopped bacon, a lump of butter, and a small quantity of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Fry them slowly, and when half-done, put in with them mushrooms, a minced shallot, an’d sweet herbs. When nicely but not over done, take the Pigeons out and leave them to get cold. Then split the birds in halves lengthwise, sprinkle them over with pepper, salt, and powdered sweet herbs, and wrap each piece in buttered writing paper. Broil them over a clear slow fire for twenty minutes, turning them to do them equally. Put the pieces of Pigeons on a hot dish on which a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper has been placed, garnish round with slices of lemon, and serve. Chartreuse of Pigeons.—(1) Peel an equal quantity of carrots and turnips and cut them into small balls with a vegetable-cutter, and boil them separately in salt and water, keeping them a little firm. Drain the vegetables, wipe them on a cloth, and leave them till cold. Cut the fillets off some plump young Pigeons, trim away the sinewy skin, beat them lightly, season them with salt and pepper, and lay them in a buttered saute-pan. Thickly butter a plain border mould, arrange the vegetable balls in circles alternately round the sides, fill the hollow of the mould with potatoes that have been boiled and mashed with a little butter, and stand the mould in the bain-marie for an hour. When ready, fry the fillets over a quick fire, turn- ing them. When cooked, drain off the butter, pour over them 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of glaze, and keep them hot. Turn the decorated border out of the mould on to a hot dish, and fill the centre with some chopped and cooked young vegetables that have been mixed with some bechamel sauce. Arrange the fillets almost upright on the border, letting them slightly overlap each other, and serve with a sauceboatful of brown sauce which has been prepared with the legs and trimmings of the Pigeons. (2) Peel some carrots and turnips, and with a tin cutter cut them into sticks 4in. long, using the red part only or the carrots. Boil the vegetables till three-parts done in salted water, then drain them and leave till cold. Line an oval timbale mould with buttered paper, then arrange round the sides, first three sticks of turnips lying lengthwise on the top of each other, next four sticks of carrots standing up, then three more sticks of turnips, and so on, putting them alternately all round the mould, and building them up by putting four sticks of carrots on the three sticks of turnips, and three sticks of turnips on four sticks of carrots, so that when turned out of the mould it may have the appearance of red and white squares. Support the vegetables by applying inwardly a thin layer of forcemeat. The bottom of the mould must also be spread with forcemeat. Blanch a cabbage and lib. of bacon, and braise them, together with a small raw sausage. Draw four large Pigeons, clean them well, and trass them with their legs inside. Cook them in a brais- ing-pan, and when done divide each into four parts. Remove all the skin and bones of the Pigeons, put the meat into a stewpan, and pour over it 4 or 5 table-spoon- fuls of brown sauce. When the cabbage is done, press it, to drain off the moisture and fat; remove the stalk and bruise it; cut the sausage and bacon up. Fill the hollow of the timbale, in alternate layers, with the cabbage, bacon, sausage, and Pigeons, put a layer of forcemeat on the top, stand the chartreuse in the bain-marie, and poach it for three-quarters-of-an-liour. Boil separately in salted water some green peas, green and white asparagus, and cucumbers. Braise some cabbage lettuces, and glaze the cucumbers when cooked. When ready, turn the timbale over on a dish in order to drain it, without taking off the mould, slip it on to another dish, garnish round the chartreuse with alternate groups of asparagus, green peas, and cucumber, and put the lettuce, spread out, on the top, with a pile of green peas in the centre. Thicken the liquor in which the For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Pigeons—continued. Pigeons were cooked with a little white sauce, and serve the chartreuse with a sauceboatful of it. Chaudfroid of Pigeons.—Prepare and truss the Pigeons as for roasting, and season them -until salt and pepper. Put them in a baking-dish, pour round some veal stock, and bake them, basting occasionally with the liquor in the pan. When cooked, drain and cut the Pigeons into con- venient sized pieces. When the stock is cold, skim off all the fat, pour it into a small saucepan, add the white of an egg, and boil it until reduced to a jelly. Then strain it through a napkin and let it get cold. Put the Pigeon on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, cut the jelly into crofttons and place round them, garnish with a few sprigs of fresh green watercress, and serve. Compote of Pigeons.—(1) Singe and draw six Pigeons and trass them. Prepare a forcemeat with fib. of finely-chopped bacon, 1 breakfast-cupful of grated breadcrumbs, a little finely-chopped parsley and thyme, the grated peel of half a lemon, and a dust of salt, pepper, and nutmeg; stir in two well-beaten eggs and mix them well together. Stuff the Pigeons with the forcemeat, put them in a stewpan with some thin slices of bacon over the breasts, and fry them lightly. Cover the Pigeons with beef stock and stew them for three-quarters-of-an-liour. When cooked, take the Fig. 232. Compote of Pigeons. birds out and place them on a hot dish; thicken the gravy with a piece of butter that has been rolled in flour, strain it over the birds, and serve (see Fig. 232). Garnish round with stewed button mushrooms. (2) Procure three young live Pigeons and bleed them at the neck, collect the blood, and mix with it 2 table- spoonfuls of vinegar to keep it liquid. Pluck, singe, and draw the Pigeons, truss them with their legs inward, put them into a stewpan with ^lh. of streaky bacon cut in squares, twelve small onions, and a lump of butter, and fry them till nicely browned; then dust in a handful of flour and a little salt. Two minutes after, cover them with white wine and broth, mixed in equal quantities, and add a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs and a pinch of pepper. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire and simmer till the Pigeons are done, adding at the last moment the livers and blood. When cooked, take the Pigeons out, untruss them, put them on a hot dish, and garnish round with the onions and bacon. Take the bunch of herhs and parsley from the sauce, strain it through a sieve over the Pigeons, and serve. Curried Pigeons (Indian).—Put 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, half the quantity of ground ginger, and \ teaspoonful of ground garlic into a saucepan with 2oz. of boiling fat, and cook until the ingredients are slightly browned; add four young Pigeons, each cut up into quarters, and about I teaspoonful of salt, and cook until they are browned; then add 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and continue to stew slowly until the Pigeons are cooked. Turn the curry out on to a hot dish, and serve very hot. Epigrammes of Pigeons.—Cut the fillets off four Pigeons and remove the skin and minion fillets. Beat the minion fillets lightly and put them on the larger ones. Dust salt t and pepper over them, arrange them on the bottom of a uces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads.