26 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. teaspoonful of caraway-seeds, and 1 teacupful of milk. Mix in the chopped Onions, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Butter a large shallow tin, line it with good short-paste, spread the mixture over it, and hake the cake in a brisk oven. When cooked, lift it out of the tin, put it on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve while hot. Onions with Cream.—(1) Select a dozen small sound Onions and cook them in salted water until quite tender. Mix 1 table-spoonful of butter with a little hour in a saucepan, put in the Onions, and dust over with salt and pepper. Pour in 1 gill of cream, and cook for a few minutes longer. Stir well, turn out on to a dish, and serve hot. (2) Boil twelve fine silver-skiuned Onions, changing the water several times in order to make the flavour milder. Take them up when sufficiently cooked and peel them ; then dry in a cloth, and when sufficiently cool to touch, cut them in slices, put them into a baking-dish, mixing with them lib. of sifted breadcrumbs, a seasoning of salt and pepper, 4oz. of butter, and lastly i pint of cream or milk. Put the dish into a moderate oven, and bake for three- quarfcers-of-an-hour. Serve very hot. Onion Farfel.—Beat an egg in 1 teacupful of water, then stir in rapidly with a fork Jib. of flour and a small quantity of salt. Peel and cut into thin slices the required quantity of Onions, put them into a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them until soft and browned. Stir the farfel paste in with the Onions, and continue stirring it over the fire for five or six minutes. Put a handful of parsley and a lump of salt into a saucepan of boiling water, turn the farfel into it, and boil for ten minutes. When cooked, drain through a sieve, turn it on to a hot dish, and serve. Onion Garnish for Fricassee.—Chop off a thin slice from both ends of a couple of dozen large Onions, put them into lqt. of boiling water, and blanch for ten minutes. Take them out, drain, and when they are cold remove the yellow and first white skins. Put them into a saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water and 1 teaspoonful each of salt and sugar; boil gently until done, take them out, drain, and they are ready for use. They should be put into the fricassee at least five minutes before serving. Onion Gruel.—Put four large Onions cut into slices in a saucepan with 2oz. of fine oatmeal, and pour over lqt. of cold water. Place the pan over a clear fire and boil the Onions gently for about five hours. Stir frequently, and add a little more water now and then, so as to keep up the original quantity. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve into a bowl or basin, sprinkle in a little sauce, and serve with pieces of toasted bread. The yolk of an egg well beaten and stirred in is an improvement. Onion Juice.—(1) This is obtained by removing the outer skin from Onions, grating them on a coarse grater, and using strong pressure to squeeze out the juice, which can be collected and strained, or clarified. (2) Pound the Onions in a mortar together with a little water, squeeze out the juice through muslin into bottles, and cork down tightly. The addition of a little fresh garlic is considered an improvement. Onion Fickle.—(1) Take large white Onions, skin and trim them, and then pour boiling salted water over and let them stand for three days. At the end of this time strain oft' the brine, pour fresh over them, boiling as before, and let them stand for another three days. Put 2qts. of vinegar over the fire in a lined pan with loz. of turmeric tied in thin muslin, let it scald for a few minutes, and pour it over the Onions boiling hot. Cover them close, and let them stand for ten days or a fortnight, then take them out and drop them into a jar or jars containing the following mixture: Pound well together i pint of black mustard-seed well beaten, 2oz. of white ginger, ljoz. each of black pepper and allspice, loz. each of cloves and mace, and put them into a large jar, together with 1 table-spoon- ful of scraped horseradish, 1 dessert-spoonful of garlic, lib. of sugar, Aoz. of celery-seed bruised, and a lemon and a half cut in thin slices and the pips picked out; pour over this lgall. of vinegar. Onions—continued. (2) Bombay.—Take off the outer peel from as many small round Onions as required, dry them well, put them into a saucepan, cover with vinegar, and parboil them. Take out the Onions with a skimmer, put them into wide- mouthed bottles in layers, alternating with finely-sliced green ginger, fresh red chillies, black peppercorns, and a little salt. Fill up with fresh vinegar, cork down securely, and the pickle is then ready for use. Onion Pie.—Peel and chop six large Onions, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt and water to cover them, and boil for a few minutes. Drain the Onions, chop them, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and stir about over the fire until the moisture has somewhat evaporated. Beat four eggs; move the Onions off the fire, mix in the eggs, then place them over the fire again, and stir for two or three minutes with a wooden spoon, but without allowing them to boil. Sift 1 Jib. of flour on to a paste-board and mix in 1 teaspoonful of salt, then stir in four beaten eggs and sufficient water to make a soft, flexible paste. Knead the mixture well with the hands, dipping them now and then in warmed butter. Divide the paste into pieces the size of a small egg, dust them over with wheat-starch, and roll them out as thin as possible. Butter a baking-tin, the same in diameter as the pieces of paste, lay in five, one over the other, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, then place over those five more, which also baste with butter, and proceed thus until half of the pieces are used. Spread the Onion mixture over the paste, then lay the remaining pieces of paste on the top, baste the pie well with butter, and bake it in a moderate oven. When cooked and nicely browned, cut the pie in four crosswise, and serve. Onion Puree.—(1) Boil the required quantity of Onions for a few minutes in salted water, then drain and chop them. Melt a large lump of butter in a stewpan, put in the Onions with plenty of caster sugar, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stir them over the fire until nicely browned. Next dredge in a little flour, and add a small quantity of clear stock, being careful not to make it too liquid, and stew gently until quite tender. When very soft, mash the Onions through a fine hair sieve, return them to the stewpan, and stir over the fire until hot again. Turn them on to a dish, and serve. (2) Peel some Onions and boil them in salted water for ten minutes, then drain, and chop them. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire. Put in the Onions, season them to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sugar, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of milk. Stew the Onions gently until quite tender, but do not let them brown at all. When ready, pass the Onions through a fine hair sieve, return them to the saucepan, and mix with them a small piece of butter. Stir over the fire for a few minutes, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. Onion Puree a la Bretonne. Peel and blanch the required quantity of Onions, putting them into cold water to cool, so that they will retain their colour. Drain, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, dust them over with salt and sugar, place the pan over a clear fire, and fry until they are of a light red colour; pour in some Spanish sauce and reduce. Pass the whole through a fine sieve, mix in with it a little warmed butter and meat glaze, and serve. Onion Puree d. la Soubise—(1) Remove the peel from a dozen Onions, blanch and drain them, put them into a saucepan with enough chicken broth to cover, and simmer gently until the Onions are done, but without allowing them to take colour. Pour in t paint of bechamel sauce, reduce it, and pass the whole through a fine hair sieve. Stir in a little butter and chicken glaze, and serve. (2) Peel and chop about two dozen Onions and warm them in a frying-pan with a little butter, but without allowing them to take colour. Mix in 3 table spoonfuls of puree of white haricot beans and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Squeeze all through a fine sieve, and the puree is ready for use.