126 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Peas —continued. quantity of water; place tlie lid on, and boil over a quick lire until tender. Knead loz. of butter with some Hour, put it in with the Peas, stir them till thickened, then put m Jib. of butter, broken in little pieces, J teaspoonful of sugar, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Turn the Peas out on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of fried bread, and serve. Pried Green Peas.—Cut a few thin slices of bacon into small pieces, put them in a stewpan, and fry; moisten with water or stock, put in the required quantity of Peas with a few white onions, the heart of a lettuce, and a hunch of sweet herbs, and simmer slowly until tender. Skim off the fat, turn the Peas and bacon on to a hot dish, and serve. Green Peas a l’Ancienne. — Take 3qts. of young tender green Peas, shell them carefully, and keep them wrapped up in a wet napkin until needed. Clean, drain, and tie up a lettuce head, put it in a saucepan with the Peas, season with a pinch of salt, cover with 1 wineglassful of water, and add Jib. of butter. After cooking for a-quarter- | of-an-hour remove the lettuce, and when ready to serve thicken the Peas with 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, diluted with one yolk of egg, adding J pinch of white pepper and 1 table-spoonful of powdered loaf sugar. Let all thicken together for five minutes, and serve immediately in a tureen. Green Peas a l’Anglaise.—Shell and wash 1 peck of green Peas, remove the small ones, put them in a sauce- pan, cover with boiling water, add a handful of salt, and boil quickly, without covering, for fifteen minutes, skim- ming the scum off as it rises. When done, strain through a colander, return them to the saucepan, and toss well, adding ljoz. of fresh butter. Dish them in a vegetable-dish, place another Joz. of butter in the middle, and serve. Green Peas a la Bourgeoise.—Select the required quantity of young Peas, put them into a stewpan with butter, allowing Jib. to every lqt. of Peas; add also the washed heart of a large lettuce, a bunch of parsley, a few small onions, and a small lump of salt. Moisten with a little broth, and stew slowly until tender. Stir in the beaten j yolks of two eggs and 1 teaspoonful of caster sugar, but do not boil after the eggs are added. Turn the Peas on to a hot dish, and serve. Green Peas a la Paysanne.—Wash a few cabbages and long lettuces, a handful of parsley, and tlnee or four green onions ; cut them into shreds and put them in a saucepan with 3qts. of green Peas and a piece of butter; place the lid on the saucepan, and let them steam over a very slow fire without any other moisture, stirring occasionally to prevent them burning. When sufficiently cooked, season with pepper and salt, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. Green Peas and Cheese.—Put 2oz. of grated cheese in a lined stewpan with ljoz. of butter, 1J teacupfuls of milk, j and J teacupful of cream, and stir the whole with a j wooden spoon over a gentle fire. When the cheese has dissolved add about 3 heaped breakfast-cupfuls of freshly- shelled green Peas that have been boiled in water until tender, season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of cayenne, and stir at the edge of the fire for a few minutes. Turn the Peas on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of bread fried in butter, and serve. If pre- ferred, the beaten yolks of two eggs may be used in place of the cream, only they must not be stirred in until the last, or they will curdle. Green Peas and Crabs.—Shell 1 peck of young Peas and i put them in a small quantity of broth together with a lump of butter and a piece of mint. Pick the meat out of three or four young crabs, put it in with the Peas, add about 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and season I to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Mix the whole well over the fire, turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with a few small claws of the crabs, and serve. Green Peas for Garnish.—Boil the required quantity of Peas in salted water, taking care not to cook them too 1 Peas—continued. much, drain, put them in a saute-pan with a little butter, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Green-Pea Griddle Cakes.—Boil some green Peas, and before they are quite done drain off the water, mash them, and pass the pulp through a strainer. Mix with every breakfast-cupful of pulp J pint of boiling milk and 1 table-spoonful each of butter and sugar. W hen cool, add 1 breakfast-cupful of flour in which has been mixed 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder anti J teaspoonful of salt; stir in one beaten egg, and if it is then thicker than stiff batter dilute with more milk. Butter a griddle-iron, and when hot pour J teacupful of the batter on it and cook the cake, beating up the mixture before each lot is taken out. Serve hot with butter. Green-Pea Pie.—Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of green Peas (shelled) into a saucepan with J table-spoonful of sugar, J saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and sufficient water to cover; place the pan without a lid on the fire, and boil the Peas until quite tender; when done, drain them. Line a pie- or tart dish with a thin layer of puff paste, pour over 2 break fast-cupfuls of custard flavoured with noyau, place the dish in the oven for the custard to set, then put the Peas on top; pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of rich cream, cover with more paste, hake in a moderate oven, glaze, and serve. Green-Pea Salad.—(1) Shell sufficient Peas to fill two break- fast-cups, put them in a saucepan with a lump of butter the size of an egg and a very small quantity of water, and let them simmer till tender, keeping them constantly stirred. When cooked, take them off the fire and leave till cold. Thoroughly wash and drain a nice lettuce, pull the leaves apart, and put them into a salad-howl. Chop some cold remains of roast lamb or other cold meat, 2'ut it about on the top of the lettuce, then pour the Peas over. Prepare a plain salad-dressing with oil, vinegar, a few chopped tarragon- and mint-leaves, and season with pepper and salt. Pour the dressing over the salad, toss it lightly, then serve. (2) Put some green Peas in a saucepan with a lump of butter and a very small quantity of water. Boil them slowly till tender, keeping them well stirred, then take them off tlie fire and leave till cool. Cut up into small pieces Jib. of cold roast lamb; put some washed and well-drained lettuce-leaves into a salad-bowl, then add the lanib and Peas. Mix in equal quantities some oil anil vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and pour it over the salad. Sprinkle with chopped tarragon- and mint-leaves, toss the salad lightly about, and serve. Green-Pea Soup.—(1) Put J peck of freshly-shelled green Peas into a stewpan with a lump of salt, a small onion, a few sprigs of mint and parsley tied together, and water to cover. Boil the Peas until tender, then strain, remove the onion, mint, and parsley, and mb the Peas through a fine hair sieve into a basin. Have ready boiling as much clear stock as will make the required quantity of soup, seeing that it is perfectly free from fat, put in the Peas, with about loz. of butter and 1 or 2 teaspoonfuls of spinach-green to give it a brighter colour, and boil up again, then turn it into a soup-tureen, and serve with sippets of toast. (2) Put 1J pints of green Peas in a saucepan of water with a small lump of salt and a few sprigs of mint, and boil until tender. When cooked, pound the Peas, and rub them through a fine hair sieve. Peel an onion and a carrot, and cut them into thin slices ; put a small lump of butter in a. saucepan, and, when melted, put in the sliced vegetables and fry them until browned. Next pour in lqt. of clear stock, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of loaf sugar, and boil for fifteen minutes. Stir the puree of Peas into the soup, and boil up again. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot with a plate of sippets of toast, or small croutons of biead that have been fried golden brown in butter. (3) Pare half-a-dozen cucumbers; and cut them in slices; also chop in pieces the hearts and best leaves of a dozen cos lettuces. Put the sliced cucumbers and lettuces into referred to, see under their special heads. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec.,