129 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. K Peas—continued. Tinned Green Peas.—Although these admit of al- most precisely the same treatment as fresh green Peas, the following receipts for their preparation are given by cooks who have thus used them: Stewed Tinned Green Peas.—Empty a quart tin of preserved green Peas into a colander, then dip the colander in boil- ing salted water. Put ‘2oz. of butter into a stewpan; drain the Peas well, put them in with the butter, and season with salt, sugar, and grated nutmeg. Stir them over the fire till hot, then mix with them a small quantity of white sauce or loz. of butter that has been worked with 1 table-spoonful of Hour. In the latter case the Peas must be stirred over a moderate fire till the flour is cooked. Turn the Peas on to a hot dish, garnish them with sippets of toast, and serve. Tinned Green Peas a la Frangaise.—Empty a quart tin of green Peas into a saucepan, and put in with them 2 table-spoonfuls of butter mixed with 1 table-spoonful of flour; stir over the fire for six or seven minutes, then pour in h pint of cream, and let them simmer for ten minutes. Serve the Peas with the sauce over them in a hot dish. Tinned Green Peas in Sauce.—Strain the liquor off a tin of French tinned Peas and stand them on the stove to get warm; put 1 teacupful of milk in a small sauce- pan with 1 teaspoonful of butter and h teaspoonful of salt, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Blend 1 teaspoonful of flour in 1 teacupful of milk, then mix it in with the sauce and stir it a minute or two longer over the fire; put the Peas in, heat them thoroughly, then turn all into a hot dish, and serve. Tinned Green-Pea Salad.—Empty a tin of preserved green Peas into a stewpan, put in with them a few sprigs of mint and a pat of butter, and stew them over a gentle fire; afterwards let them get cold. Put the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs in a basin, and mash them up with 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, salt and pepper to taste, and a few drops of the best salad-oil. When quite smooth work in with the paste some more oil, making 4 table- spoonfuls in all, | teacupful of tarragon vinegar, and a few chopped leaves of mint and tarragon. Mix all well with the Peas, pile them on a dish, and serve. Tinned Green-Peas Sautes.—Open a tin of green Peas, drain, wash them in cold water, drain again, and put them into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and | saltspoonful of pepper, and shake them over the fire until they are hot; then serve at once. Dried Green Peas.—Many cooks use these in pre- ference to any other mode of preparing green Peas for winter use. The following receipts for drying them lias been contributed by one of our staff, who states that he is never without a goodly supply of them, so highly does he esteem their culinary qualities. These Peas are some- times put on a dish, sprinkled with water, and placed in a warm place until they commence to sprout; they are then used as green Peas. Procure freshly shelled Peas, put them in a saucepan of boiling water and leave them for five minutes; next turn the Peas into a colander and drain them. Lay them on a cloth spread over a table until the moisture has been absorbed, then put them on dishes, and place them in a cool oven for a short time to harden. Afterwards put them in paper bags, tie them up, and hang them in a warm dry closet. Before cooking these Peas they should be soaked all night in soft water, or water with a pinch of soda in it. Dried Green Peas with Sweet and Sour Sauce.—Soak the Peas and then put them in a saucepan with a little water to keep them from burning, and boil until tender, which will take from three to four horn's. When done, strain the water off the Peas and take a little of it to make the sauce with. Thicken the water with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour; mix with it 111), of treacle and 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar, and stir over the fire till Peas—continued. boiling; put in the sauce some fried bacon cut in small pieces, and some fried onions also finely cut. Turn the Peas on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Puree of Dried Green Peas.—(1) Soak lqt. of these Peas overnight, and next morning drain them, put them in a saucepan with an onion stuck with four cloves, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, and 2 bay-leaves tied together, several peppercorns, and a moderate-sized lump of salt, pour in plenty of cold water, and boil the Peas until tender. When cooked, strain off the water and mash the Peas through a fine hair sieve. Melt a large lump of butter in a saucepan, put in the Peas and stir them over the fire until quite hot, adding a small quan- tity of milk or broth if too stiff. Turn the puree on to a hot dish, and serve with boiled bacon. (2) Put the Peas, previously soaked, in a saucepan with a piece of the back of bacon, three or four carrots and onions, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaves, and some cold water; boil them about four hours or till the Peas are soft. Pass all through a hair sieve. Warm the puree again thoroughly, colour it green with a little extract of spinach, turn the puree into a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Dried Green Peas.—Put the Peas to soak in soft water all night; if very good boiling Peas a shorter tune will do. Put them over the fire with just enough water to cover them, a bit of pork or beef, and a gcod- Fig. 178. Stewed Dried Green Peas. sized piece of butter. Let them stew very gently till the meat is done and the Peas are quite soft. If the meat is not salt, add salt and pepper, lay the meat in the centre of the dish, put the Peas all round (see Fig. 178), and serve hot. Split Peas.—The common field Pea is the one that is usually used for the preparation of these. They are shelled when old, dried, and then split. Sometimes they are ground into flour, in which form they are exceedingly liable to adulteration. It is therefore advisable to pur- chase only such Pea-flour that bears the name of some re- liable firm on the packets. When ground, Peas quickly lose much of their flavour. Peas Porridge.—Peel and cut in slices two Spanish onions, fry them with a stick of celery and a little butter till nicely browned, then put them in a saucepan with two anchovies, a crust of bread, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and 3qts. of water; boil them gently for an-liour-and-a-half. Skim and strain the liquor; grate lib. of raw potatoes, put them in the soup with 1 pint of split Peas; boil the Peas till soft, then pass them through a sieve into the porridge again. Put in six leeks that have been cut up, and cook them in it. If not thick enough a little flour and butter may be mixed with the Porridge. Turn it into a hot dish, and serve. Peas Pudding.—(1) Take lib. of split Peas, put them into enough soft water to cover, and let them steep for twelve hours. Then tie them in a cloth, leaving room to swell, and boil for nearly four hours. Take them out of the cloth, rub them through a hair sieve, then mix into them a little salt and a small quantity of butter; put them into the cloth again, tying tightly, and boil for half-an-hour, and serve. (2) Put 1 pint of split Peas to soak the night before they are wanted, and on the following morning drain For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tfcc., referred, to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.