3 81 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. steak, and as many thin rashers of streaky bacon. Lay a slice of bacon on each slice of steak, and roll them up. Dust the quarters of Pigeon over with salt, pepper, and powdered spices, put a small lump of butter on each piece, lay them with the rolls of steak in a pie-dish, put in a few sliced hard-boiled eggs, and pour over them some liquid aspic jelly; cover the pie with a good crust, trimming it evenly round the edges, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and bake it for about an hour in a quick oven. Serve the pie either hot or cold. Pigeons in a Case.—Singe and clean three young Pigeons and bone the breasts. Prepare a quenelle forcemeat, and mix with it a salpifon of raw ham and 3 table-spoonfuls of cooked line herbs. Stuff the birds with the forcemeat, truss them with their legs inward, and cover them with thin layers of fat bacon. Put some chopped bacon, onion, and trimmings of mushrooms in a stewpan, add some cloves, peppercorns, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and put the Pigeons in; pour in f pint of white wine. Wlieu the liquid boils, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put the lid on, with some hot ashes on it, and stew the Pigeons gently till cooked. Fry five chickens’ livers in butter; pound them, dust some salt and pepper over them, anil pass them through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the pounded livers an equal quantity of scraped fat bacon, and the same of peeled and chopped raw truffles. Oil an entree paper case, and mask the bottom with the liver forcemeat; cut the strings off the Pigeons and put them on it, and glaze them with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze. Put a sheet of paper on a baking-sheet, cover the case with paper, and stand it on it; place the baking-sheet on a trivet at the entrance of the oven, thus warming the Pigeons gently for fifteen minutes. Skim the fat off the liquor in which the Pigeons were cooked, strain it, pour in some brown sauce and Madeira, mixed in equal quan- tities, and boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Take the case out of the oven, put it on a hot dish, pour a little of the sauce over, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Pigeon Cutlets.—Having plucked and prepared the birds, put them in a stewpan with sufficient clear stock to cover, and stew them gently until tender. Wheu cooked, drain, and cut them up into convenient pieces. Season some grated breadcrumbs with moderate quantities of finely- chopped thyme, parsley, and lemon-peel, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Dip the pieces of Pigeons in beaten egg and roll them in the seasoned breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating. Put a large lump of lard or fat into a deep frying-pan, place it on the fire, and when the blue smoke rises lay in the pieces of Pigeons and fry them until nicely browned. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, stir them over the fire until mixed and browned, then strain in the liquor in which the Pigeons were boiled, season to taste, and stir it until boiling. Form a pyramid of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, arrange the pieces of Pigeons in an upright position all round them, pour the sauce round the Pigeons, and serve. Pigeon Cutlets served with French Beans or Asparagus Peas.—Clean four Pigeons, split them in halves length- wise, remove the wing-bones, and truss the leg-bones inside. Put them in a saut(5-pan with a lump of butter, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and fry them. When cooked, put the halves of the Pigeons between two plates, and a weight on the upper plate, and press them till cold. Roll them in warmed butter and breadcrumbs, and broil them till nicely browned over a clear fire. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with cooked French beans, and serve with a sauceboatful of half glaze. The cutlets can be served with asparagus peas in the place of French beans. Pigeon Dumplings.—Truss four Pigeons as for boiling, put some pickles inside them, and season with sweet herbs, pepper and salt; rub some butter on the breasts, roll each one in a thin piece of paste, tie them separately in cloths, and boil them slowly for one-hour-and-a-lialf. When cooked, take the birds out of the cloths, place them on a Pigeons—continued. hot dish, put some hard boiled eggs cut into halves round them, pour a rich gravy over, and serve. Pigeon Pie.—(1) Pick and draw some young Pigeons, wash them, lay them in a saucepan, cover with boiling water, put in a piece of onion and a piece of salt, put the lid on, and boil them till tender. Take the Pigeons out, drain them, and put in each 1 teaspoonful of butter, a small quantity of salt, pepper, minced parsley, thyme, and a hard-boiled egg. Lay them in a deep baking-dish and strain their cooking liquor over them; put in 1 teacup- ful of cream, 1 table-spoonful of butter, 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley and thyme, and 1 pinch of salt. Cover the pie with a rich crust, ornament it, stick four of the claws in the crust, and bake it. Serve either hot or cold. If cold, set the pie-dish in an under-dish with a napkin folded about it, and garnish freely with sprays of parsley (see Fig. 235). (2) Draw anil clean six young Pigeons, finely chop their livers, hearts, gizzards, and lungs, and mix with them twelve shallots, one clove of garlic, a little parsley and thyme, 2oz. each of beef suet and lean veal, also chopped fine. Sprinkle over them a dust of salt, pepper, and mixed spices. Mix them together with a beaten egg and 1 table- spoonful of brandy. Stuff the Pigeons with the forcemeat. Put at the bottom of an earthenware pie-dish some thin slices of bacon, sprinkle with chopped shallots and powdered sweet herbs, then put in a layer of Pigeons, another layer of bacon, more chopped shallots and sweet herbs, and so on, till all the Pigeons are used. Put some knuckle of veal, cut in small pieces, on the top, and pour in \ pint of white wine. Cover the top with paste, brush it over with beaten egg, and bake it for three hours in a moderate oven. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Boil and blanch three ox-palates; truss three Pigeons as for baking; cut four veal sweetbreads in halves, and partially boil them; blanch seventeen or eighteen cocks’ combs; and blanch and beard 1 pint of oysters. Butter a pie-disli, line it with a good crust, put in the Pigeons, sweetbreads, the ox-palates cut into small pieces, the cocks’ combs, and oysters, also three artichoke bottoms and the marrow from two bones. Season all well with mace, grated nutmeg, and salt; put about 6oz. of butter, broken in small pieces on the top, and moisten with a small quantity of water. Bake the pie about an-hour-and-a-half, and when cooked, strain off the butter at the top. Pour in some nicely-flavoured gravy, and serve while hot. (4) Pluck, singe, and draw eighteen young Pigeons, split them into halves, and beat them flat. Dredge a little flour, pepper, and salt over them on both sides. Put 4 lb. of butter in the baking-pan in which the pie is to be made, and melt it; then lay in the Pigeons, and bake them till light brown. Pour into the £an about 2qts. of broth or water, and continue baking. When the Pigeons are nearly done, thicken the gravy, add 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, salt, and pepper, cover them with a short crust, and bake for twenty minutes longer. Serve either hot or cold. (5) Singe and draw some iplump young Pigeons, and truss them with their legs inside. Put a few button onions into a saucepan with a lump of butter, lay in the Pigeons, dredge them with salt and pepper, and fry them over a moderate fire till nicely browned. Then put in I lb. of streaky bacon, and dredge in a little flour. In two or three minutes’ time pour in sufficient broth and white wine to reach the top of the birds, place the lid on the