THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 92 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Parsnips—continued. There are two principal kinds of Parsnips cultivated, the long (see Fig. 106) and the round (see Fig. 107), either of which may be used in the following receipts: Baked Parsnips.—Peel and wash some large hollow-crowned Parsnips, cut them lengthwise into quarters, and steam them for one hour. Take them out, put them in a baking- dish with a little salt and meat drippings, and bake till nicely browned. Drain, put them on a hot dish, and serve. Boiled Parsnips.—(1) Rub and wash some Parsnips well, but do not scrape them; put them in a saucepan with boiling salted water, and boil them quickly till tender, which will take from one hour to one-hour and-a-half accord- ing to the size of the Parsnips. When done, rub their skins off' with a rough cloth, put them in a hot dish, and serve with butter sauce, seasoned with a little pepper and salt, poured over them. (2) Scrape three large Parsnips, slice them iin. thick and 2in. long, and boil them in boiling salted water until they are tender. Drain off the water, add to the Parsnips 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and 1 teacupful of cream, season with white pepper and salt, let them boil once, and serve. Broiled Parsnips.—Boil some Parsnips, drain them, dry them on a clean towel, split them into slices |in. thick, dip them in melted butter seasoned with salt and pepper, put them between the bars of a double wire gridiron, broil them brown over a hot fire, and serve immediately. Pricassee of Parsnip.—Scrape some Parsnips and wash them, boil them in milk till they are soft, and cut them length- wise into quarters, and then into pieces about 3in. long. Have a white sauce ready made of h pint of cream mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of veal or mutton broth flavoured with pepper, salt, and mace, and thickened with butter and flour. Put the Parsnips in, let them simmer for a few minutes, and serve hot. Fried Parsnips.—(1) Scrape some Parsnips, wash them, and boil them in salted water. When tender, drain them, cut them lengthwise into halves, and dredge them over with flour. Put a piece of lard or butter in a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and let it boil; then put in the Parsnips, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain them, pile them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (2) A merican.—Peel and wash some Parsnips, put them in boiling salted water, and boil till tender. Drain and cut the Parsnips in thin slices lengthwise, and leave them till cool, with a little salt sprinkled over them. Put 1 breakfast-cupful of molasses in a large frying-pan, place it on the fire, and let it boil ; then put in the slices of Parsnips and fry them; when browned on one side turn them and brown the other. Arrange them on a hot dish, and serve. Mashed Parsnips.—Scrape a large Parsnip, wash it, cut it lengthwise into eight pieces, put it into a saucepan with Iqt. of boiling water, a little salt, and a small lump of dripping, and boil till quite tender ; then take the pieces out, put them on a colander, drain, and press all the water out. Mash the Parsnip till quite smooth with a wooden spoon, then put it in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of milk or a small lump of butter, a little salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till thoroughly hot again. Turn it into a dish, and serve at once. Parsnip Balls.—Wash, peel, and boil sufficient Parsnips to make 2 breakfast-cupfuls when mashed. When tender, drain the Parsnips, mash them with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, 1 teaspoonful of salt, a little pepper, and 2 table- spoonfuls of cream. Put the ingredients when well mixed in a saucepan, and stir them over the fire till bubbling. Take the saucepan off, mix in one beaten egg, and set it away to cool; shape the preparation into balls, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, put them in a frying- basket, and plunge them into boiling fat. When well browned, drain the balls, put them on a hot dish, and serve. Parsnip Fritters.—Peel and boil some Parsnips until tender, then drain them thoroughly, mash them smoothly, mixing^ Parsnips—continued. in with them two beaten eggs, salt to taste, and suffi- cient flour to bind them rather stiffly. Divide and mould the mixture into small round cakes with floured hands. Put a large piece of butter into a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and let it boil; then put in the cakes, and fry them a bright golden brown. Drain them, pile them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Parsnip Pudding.—(1) Peel and wash two large Parsnips, cut them in halves, and boil them. When tender, drain them, and mash them smooth with a piece of butter, sweetening to taste with caster sugar, and flavouring with a small quantity of grated lemon-peel or powdered cinnamon. Stir in 1 wineglassful of brandy, and sufficient beaten eggs to make a stiff batter. Thickly butter the interior of a pudding-basin, strew grated breadcrumb over it, pour in the mixture, and boil. When cooked turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve it with a sauceboat- ful of sweet sauce. (2) German.—Peel three or four Parsnips, wash them, and boil them in water; when tender, drain them thoroughly, and mash them smoothly. Warm 2oz. of butter, mix it with the Parsnips, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and flavouring moderately with grated lemon-peel. Beat four eggs thoroughly, and stir them in with the mixture. Thickly butter a mould, strew in some grated breadcrumb, shaking the mould about so that it is covered equally, then pour in the mixture, cover it with a stout pudding- cloth, and boil it for an hour. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve with a fruit sauce poured over it. Parsnip Salad.—(1) Scrape the skin off two or three raw Par- snips, pick out the discoloured parts, cut them into thin slices, and dredge with flour. Put a piece of butter in a frying-pan, put in the Parsnips, and fry them till brown; then drain them and leave till cold. Arrange the slices of Parsnip in the centre of a dish; finely mince some ham, arrange it round them in little mounds, with the half of a hard-boiled egg between each, then put round Fig. 108. Parsnip Salad. that a border of well-washed and drained garden cress (see Fig. 108). Pour a remoulade sauce over the Parsnips, and serve. (2) Rub the skin off some Parsnips with a coarse towel, pick out the discoloured parts with a sharp- pointed knife, cut them into quarters, and boil in salted water till tender. Drain the Parsnips, cut them into narrow strips, and sprinkle a few chopped herbs over them. Prepare a plain salad dressing with oil and vinegar, the oil predominating, season it with salt and pepper, pour it over the Parsnips, and serve them. Parsnips Sautees.—Scrape some Parsnips and wash them, put them into a saucepan of cold water with a little salt, place them over the fire, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain them and cut them into slices, Put 2oz. of butter into a saute-pan, and place it on the fire ; when it has melted, put in the slices of Parsnips, and toss them gently about until lightly browned all over. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, strew finely-chopped parsley over them, and serve.