1006 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Mutton—continued. cakes on a piece of paper in front of the fire to drain, then arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with watercress or parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear brown gravy. (2) Prepare the Mutton mixture as described for No. 1, and shape it into flat cakes the size of Mutton cutlets; wrap these in heart-shaped pieces of well-floured paper, turn- ing the edges and twisting them together. Broil the cakes over a grill, and when the paper browns remove them and Fig. 1242. Tinned-Mutton Cakes. lay them round on a hot metal dish with a sauceboatful of Tartar sauce in the centre. Garnish with fried parsley. See Fig. 1242. Tinned-Mutton Pie.—(1) Put \ teacupful of the best Scotch oatmeal in a saucepan with It pints of water and boil it until reduced to a jelly, then move it from the fire and leave until cold. Peel and partially boil a large onion, then chop it small. Open a tin of Australian Mutton and cut the meat into slices; spread a layer of the oatmeal over the bottom of a pie-dish, over that place a layer of the meat, and strew on it some of the chopped onion and minced parsley and sage, using only a small quantity of this latter ingredient; season to taste with salt and pepper, and cover with another layer of oatmeal. Fill the dish with alternate layers of the above ingredients, seasoning as before, and making the last layer of oatmeal. Dredge a small quantity of flour over the top of the pie, and bake it for an-hour-and-a-lialf in a moderate oven. Serve the pie while hot. (2) Cut the required quantity of Tinned Mutton into thin slices, and half that quantity of bacon ; put them in alternate layers in a pie-dish, strewing over each layer some finely-minced boiled onion, apple, and a moderate quantity of chopped sage. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of rich gravy. Butter the edges of the pie-dish, lay a strip of paste round, wet it, and cover with a flat of paste ; trim it off evenly round the edges, press them together, and bake the pie in a moderate oven. When cooked, it may be served either hot or cold. (3) Finely mince some Australian Tinned Mutton, and mix with it a quarter of its bulk of grated breadcrumb; season to taste with salt, pepper, a moderate quantity each of chopped parsley, marjoram, and lemon-thyme, and moisten, without making it too liquid, with beaten eggs and milk. Butter a pie-dish, turn the mixture into it, strew grated breadcrumb thickly over the top, put a few small lumps of butter about, and bake for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. When nicely browned stand the pie- dish on a flat one, and serve with a sauceboatful of clear brown gravy. Tinned-Mutton-and-Fotato Pie.—Peel and boil in salted water 2lb. or 31b. of potatoes, and when cooked, drain and mash them smoothly with 2oz. or 3oz. of butter, and season with salt. Procure a tin of Mutton, scrape off all the jelly, which put into a small stewpan, mix with it an equal Mutton—continued. quantity of clear broth, season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and put it over the fire to boil. Chop the meat coarsely. Spread half of the mashed potatoes on the bottom of a dish that will bear the heat of the oven, as the pie will have to be served on the same dish; over the potatoes put the meat, then pour in the gravy, and cover all with the remainder of the potatoes. Place the dish in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes, then take it out, brown the top of the potatoes under a salamander, and serve. Tinned-Mutton Pudding.—(1) Finely mince about lib. of Australian Tinned Mutton, mix with it a quarter of its quantity of minced bacon and two finely-chopped shallots, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Chop 41b. of beef-suet, mix it with 111), of flour, add 1 heaped teaspoon- ful of baking-powder, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and stir in suffi- cient water to make it into a paste. When ready, lay the paste on a floured table, roll it out, spread over the mince, roll it up into a long roll, moisten the ends, and press them firmly together to prevent the mince coming out. Rinse a stout pudding-cloth in hot water, wring it, flour well, lay the pudding on it, roll it up, and tie at each end. Put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn it carefully out of the doth on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. (2) Cut about lib. or 141b. of Australian Tinned Mutton into small rather thick squares, and cut Jib. of beef kidney into slices. Butter a pudding-basin, line it with a good suet crust, and fill it with alternate layers of Mutton and kidney, seasoning each layer moderately with salt and pepper. Pour in a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and cover the pudding with a round of paste, moistening and pinching the edges together. Tie a floured pudding-cloth over the top, put the pudding into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for two-liours-and-a-half, pouring in more water as it boils away to keep the pudding well covered. When cooked, turn it out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. Tinned-Mutton Sandwiches.—Take the meat out of a tin of Mutton, remove all the fat and jelly, and cut the meat into small square pieces. Put 2oz. of butter into a stew- pan, melt it, add two small finely-chopped onions, and fry them until browned, then dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir in about 1 teacupful of gravy. Season with 4 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and any other kind of spices liked, and let it simmer gently at the side of the fire until the liquor has thickly reduced, then put in the meat. Stir the mixture well, and leave it at the side of the fire. Cut off some thin slices of bread from the bottom part of a household loaf, and fry them in dripping until of a golden brown. Drain the slices, spread a layer of the meat mixture over half of them, and cover with the remaining slices. Cut the sandwiches into halves, quarters, or strips, whichever may be preferred, and arrange them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve while very hot. The meat mixture should be reduced almost to a stiff paste, or it will not keep in between the bread. Tinned-Mutton Vinaigrette.—Cut the required quantity of Australian Mutton into thin slices, and lay them on a dish; stir oil and vinegar together, the former predominat- ing ; mix with it in moderate quantities chopped celery, parsley, and potatoes, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Pour the sauce over the meat, garnish with slices of cucumber, or if that is not available, slices of beetroot, and serve. MUZZLES.—See Ox-muzzles. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, cfcc., referred to, see under their special heads. END OF VOLUME I.