43 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, d-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. flower water; put the almonds and the grated peel of one of the Oranges in the above mixture and stir the whole well together. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a thin crust, fill it with the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. (12) Boiled.—Take 4lb. of lady’s fingers or Savoy biscuits, and crumble them fine; pour over 1 pint of cold milk and let them soak a little. Beat loz. of butter to a cream with 2oz. of powdered white sugar; whisk four eggs very light with another 2oz. of sugar, and beat in butter and eggs together to the soaked biscuit-crumbs, then stir in 1 table-spoonful of cornflour blended with a little cold water. Have a saucepan of boiling water ready on the fire, butter a pudding-tin, and mix quickly into the pudding the strained juice of two Oranges, the grated rind of one, and the strained juice of a lemon; pour the pudding into the tin at once, cover it, and plunge it immediately into the boiling water. Boil for an hour, turn it out, and serve hot with sweet brandy sauce. (13) Finely chop 6oz. of shredded beef-suet, put it in a basin, and mix with it 6oz. of finely-grated bread- crumbs, 6oz. of flour, the grated peel of two small Seville Oranges, and the strained juice of three; add 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, two well-beaten eggs, and sufficient milk to mix the whole into a light paste. Butter a pudding-basin, turn the mixture into it, tie a floured cloth over the top, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for an-liour-and- a-lialf. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of sweet sauce. (14) Pour 1 pint of cream over Jib. of Naples biscuits (see Biscuits), and beat it into a paste with a little sugar to taste. Put the grated peel of two Seville Oranges into a mortar, pound them, add the biscuits and cream, and stir in lastly six well-beaten eggs. Pour it into a buttered mould or well-floured pudding-cloth, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, boil for an hour, turn it out on to a dish, pour over some sweet sauce, and serve. (15) Boston Style.—Beat 3oz. of butter and 6oz. of sugar to a smooth cream, and mix in the whisked yolks of five eggs, the grated yellow rind of one Orange, and the strained juice of two; then add, a handful at a time, 41b. of sifted breadcrumbs alternately with spoonfuls of the whites of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and stir in lastly 2 table-spoonfuls of self-raising flour. Put the batter as quickly as possible into a buttered pudding-tin, cover it, leaving room for the pudding to swell, plunge it at once into boiling water, and let it boil for two hours. For the sauce beat 3oz. of butter to a cream with 4lb. of powdered white sugar, mix with it the strained juice of one lemon, 1 saltspoonful of grated nutmeg, and the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth; whisk all these very well together, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, pour part of it over the pudding, and serve the rest in a small tureen. Orange Puffs.—prate the rinds of three Seville Oranges and strain their juice; put the rinds into a mortar with lib. of caster sugar and about 3oz. of butter, and pound them into a smooth paste, then mix in the strained juice. Roll the paste out on a marble slab, and with a tin cutter cut it into rounds. Lay them a short distance from each other on baking-sheets over which has been spread a sheet of white paper, and bake in a rather slow oven. When cooked, pile the putt's on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, dust them over with caster sugar, and serve. Orange Ratafia.—Take half-a-dozen thick-skinned Seville Oranges, cut off the yellow rinds as thinly as possible, and put them in a jar. Cut the six Oranges into halves, squeeze the juice from them, strain it, and add it to the peels in the jar; put in lib. of powdered white sugar and stir in the Orange-juice ti l quite dissolved, then pour over it 2qts. of brandy. Close the jar air-tight, let the liquor stand for a month, strain it, put it into bottles, and cork them well. Orange Ratafia Pudding Meringue.—Peel fifteen sweet Oranges and two large lemons; with a sharp knife remove all the white pith from the Oranges and lemons, and divide Oranges—continued. them into quarters. Put the fruit in a basin, strew plenty of caster sugar over, and let it stand for an hour or two. Next pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it the grated rinds of two lemons and three Oranges, and 4 wineglassful of Orange-flower water. Cut some stale sponge cakes into slices; butter a pie-dish, put in a layer of the cakes, baste them with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, then spread a layer of the Orange pulp over them; cover with another layer of sponge cake, baste with more butter, then put in another layer of pulp, and so on, until the dish is three-parts full, putting a layer of ratafia biscjiits on the top. Beat the yolks of four eggs up with 1 pint of milk, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, add 1 wineglassful of brandy and a small quantity of ratafia, turn it into a lined saucepan, and stir over the fire until thickened but not quite boiling, or the eggs will curdle. Pour the custard over the pudding, and put it in the oven. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar with the whites of the eggs and whisk them to a stiff froth. When the pudding is baked, take it out, spread the whisked whites of eggs ■■ ■ Fig. 58. Orange Eatafia Pudding Meringue. over, and put it back in the oven for a few minutes until the meringue is set. It may be served either hot or cold. The meringue should not lie browned at all when taken out of the oven. See Fig. 58. Orange-and-Rice Meringue.—Scald 41b. of rice, drain it, and put it in a saucepan with I pint of milk, the thinly- pared rind of one lemon, and Jib. of loaf sugar. Keep the rice simmering gently at the side of the fire until tender. Leave the rice until cold, then remove the lemon-peel, and beat in the yolks of four eggs. Peel off the yellow rinds as thinly as possible from a number of Oranges, and make a thick syrup with loaf sugar and a small quantity of water. Put the Orange-peel in and let it infuse at the side of the fire for a few minutes, but do not let it boil. Scrape off all the white part of the peel from the Oranges and core them in the same manner as apples are done to remove the pips. Cut the Oranges into halves, spread, the rice out on a dish (one that can be served at table and will stand the heat of the oven should be used), lay the halves of Oranges on the rice, and strain the syrup over them. Beat the whites of the four eggs to a stitt' froth together with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar, and spread them over the Oranges. Put them in a slow oven and bake for twenty minutes. Serve either hot or cold. Orange Salad.—(1) Peel half a-dozen Oranges, scrape off all the pith, and cut them into slices. Take out the pips, put a layer of the slices on a dish, and sprinkle over them some caster sugar and a little brandy or rum. Continue in this way until they are all used up, and serve. They may be piled in the shape of a pyramid. (2) Peel eight or nine Oranges, cut them into slices Jin. thick, and free them of the pips and white pith in the centre. Put them in a deep dish with what juice may have run from them when they were cut, the rind of one Orange, and some caster sugar, cover with another dish, and stand them in a cool place for a few hours. When ready for the Oranges, arrange them in a glass dish, the slices overlapping each other. Mix 14 wineglassfuls of brandy or ram with the syrup, strain it over the Oranges, and serve. Orange Sauce.— See Bigakade Sauce, page 31, vol. ii. Orange Sherbet—(1) Put 1 table-spoonful of gelatine in a little cold water to soak, and then pour over 1 breakfast-