THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 116 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. it is palatable, and more digestible tlian Pastry made with butter or shortening. (2) Sift lib. of flour on a paste board, make a hollow in the centre, and put in Jib. of powdered sugar, two eggs, the yolks of two more, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mix these ingredients to a smooth Paste, using the tips of the fingers, and then knead the Paste thoroughly until it is smooth and firm. If the Paste is too dry to knead well, add one or more yolks to produce the proper consistency, and then roll it out and use it. Paste for Borders.—Put into a bowl the yolks of six or eight eggs, a few drops of water, and a little salt, and mix in flour until it is so stiff that it can scarcely lie worked. Beat and work it till quite smooth, and keep it moist until required; roll it out quite thin, cut it in the desired shapes, and then place them upon the dish before they get too dry. Brash over with white of egg. Paste for Cheese Cakes.—Mix until lib. of best sifted flour 3oz. of caster sugar. Beat Jib. of butter till of a creamy consistence, then sift the flour and sugar gradually into it. When well mixed, work in the whole yolks of three eggs and the well beaten whites of two. It is then ready for use. Paste made with Cream.—(1) Mix J teaspoonful of salt and J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with 1 breakfast- cupful of cream; stir in gradually sufficient flour to make a stiff Paste. Sprinkle a little flour on the table, and roll the Paste out on it to about Jin. thick. Cut about 2oz. of butter into small pieces and put it on the Paste; sift over a little flour, double the Paste, and roll it out thin. It is then ready to be used. (2) Put 4 breakfast-cupfuls of flour in a basin, and mix in 1 pinch of salt and A pint of thick cream. Put the Paste on a floured baking-sheet and leave it for half-an - liour. Sprinkle some flour on a paste-board and roll the Paste out on it; cut Jib. of butter in small pieces, put them on the Paste, roll it out five times, then cut it into any desired shape. Dip a paste-brusli into beaten yolk of egg, brush the Paste over, and bake. Paste for Custards or Preserved Fruits.—Put 6oz. of butter over the fire in a saucepan with 6 table-spoonfuls of water, let it come to the boil, and then mix into it as much flour as will make it into a stiff Paste. Knead and beat it with a rolling-pin till smooth. When quite smooth knead it into a lump and turn a pan down over it or cover with a cloth till it is almost cold. Take a piece of the Paste, large enough for the purpose, knead it into a lump, then press the knuckles of the left hand into the top of this lump of Paste, pretty nearly in the middle, and with the right hand keep working the Paste up the back of the left hand, shifting it round and round meanwhile, forming the Paste into a circular shape with a flat bottom and upright sides like an ordinary jam-pot. The Paste ought to be stiff enough to keep in shape when the hand is withdrawn if it has not been pressed too thin or into holes. Trim the edges, line the Paste with paper till half baked, then remove the paper, pour in the custard or preserve, and finish the baking. Paste made with Dripping.—This requires great care, as the dripping runs very readily, even the heat of the hand being sufficient to melt it. it should be made in a cool room with cool hands, and the dripping should he clarified. To every lib. of flour allow 6oz. of dripping and 1 tea- spoonful of baking-powder. Mix the baking-powder with the flour, and add at the same tune 1 teaspoonful of fine salt. Break the dripping into small pieces about the size of peas, and rub these pieces into the flour until all have been taken up; then moisten the flour with a teacupful of cold water, and work until it is a stiff Paste, adding a little more water now and again if necessary. It can then be rolled out on a well-floured board, folding it over and over again to three turns. Paste for Meat and Game Pies.—Use Alb. of butter to ilh. of flour; chop one half the butter into the flour, and add 1 teaspoonful of salt and enough cold water to mix it to a smooth Paste just soft enough to roll out. If ice-water is used, and the Paste is mixed with a knife instead oi Paste and Pastry—continued. the hand, it can be kept cooler, and will be lighter and more delicate than if mixed with the hands. In making, touch the Paste as little and as lightly as possible with the hands, because heating and pressing heavily upon it make it dense and tough. After the Paste is mixed and rolled about Ain. thick, dredge it with flour, cut half the remain- ing butter into slices, and lay them on the Paste, leaving a space of about lin. all around the edges; dredge the butter with flour, turn the edges in all round to enclose the outside layers of butter, and then double the Paste, and again roll it out about Ain. thick; put the rest of the butter on it in slices, dredge with flour, fold in the edges, double it, and roll out as already directed. If any Paste remains after the pie is made, wrap it in a floured cloth, and keep in a cool dry place; it will be good for several days, and only requires to be rolled out two or three times before using to make it quite light. Paste for Ornamenting Tartlets.—Rub loz. of butter into 4oz. of flour. Mix it to a stiff Paste with a little cold water, rub it well on the board till it begins to string, then cut it into four or five pieces and roll them out: draw it into fine strings, and lay them across the tartlets in any fancied pattern. Paste for Oyster Patties.—Put fib. of well-sifted flour in a basin, and mix in with it the strained juice of a lemon that has been mixed with a sufficient quantity of water to form a light dough. Dredge a marble slab with flour, put the dough on it, and knead it well; then roll it out, spread fib. of butter over, fold it again, and roll out four times, then fold it in three and stand it in a cool place. In about two hours’ time, roll the Paste out to about Jin. in thickness, and cut out several large rounds and the same number of small rounds, using two different-sized Paste-cutters, which should be dipped in flour each time they are used to prevent them sticking. Lay the rounds on a baking-tin, and bake them until lightly browned. When cooked, scoop a little of the Paste out of the centre of each round, fill the hollow with whatever may have been prepared for it, and cover with the smaller rounds. Paste for Patties.—Sift lib. of the best white flour through a fine wire sieve on to a marble slab; mix with it a few drops of lemon-juice, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and stir it into a smooth stiff Paste with cold water. Squeeze the water out of lib. of butter by putting it in a cloth and working it well with the hands; then put it in the middle of the Paste, fold the edges round it, and roll it out. Fold the Paste in three, turn it round and roll it the other way. Let it rest for twenty minutes, then roll it twice more, and so on until it has been rolled six times. Next roll the Paste out to the thickness of Ain., and with a plain tin cutter, 2Jin. in diameter, cut the Paste into rounds; the cutter should be dipped into boiling water each time it is used. Place the rounds on a baking-tin, brush them over with a paste-brusb dipped in beaten egg, then with a tin cutter about lAin. in diameter cut half-way through the centre of each round. Bake them in a brisk oven, taking care not to let the Paste brown too much. When the patties are cooked, lift the Paste where the circle is marked, that being to form the covers, scoop out some of the Paste, and fill them with whatever has been prepared for them. Paste for Pies. —(1) Put 31b. of well-sifted flour on to a board or table, work in 20oz. of butter, make a bay, and work in the yolks of four eggs, loz. of salt, and 1 break- fast-cupful of cold water. Should the Paste while being used be too hard and crack, it may be rolled out again and slightly damped with water before being worked up. If preferred, the butter may be worked in with the liquids before being introduced to the flour, which must be well worked in, adding it gradually. It is far easier to make this Paste in winter than in summer. (2) Put 4oz. of butter and 4oz. of lard into a saucepan with 1 pint of water, and place it on the fire until boiling. Put in a small quantity of salt, and stir in gradually about 31b. of flour. Work and beat the mixture, dredging it occasionally with flour until a smooth firm Paste is formed. Let it get quite cold before using.