THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 180 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. birds over with black pepper and a little allspice, rubbing it in lightly with the hands; lay them in a basin, pour some red wine over them, put a plate over the basin, and leave them for several hours. When sufficiently steeped (they are better if left in the wine for one night), put the birds with the wine into a stewpan, pour in enough brown stock to cover, and boil them gently at the edge of the fire. In about an hour’s time, when the birds will be sufficiently cooked, drain them, and pound their livers in a mortar. Boil the cooking stock quickly until reduced to half its original quantity, then mix with it the pounded livers and 1 table-spoonful of desiccated cocoanut. Arrange the wings and claws of the birds together to form a centre piece for the dish, putting a piece of watercress in each claw. Put it in the middle of a hot dish, lay the quarters of birds round it, putting between each quarter a small roll of fried bacon, pour round the thickened gravy, garnish the edge of the dish with a fringe of watercress, on which lay quarters of lemon, and serve. Pigeons a la Financiere.—Put four Pigeons, cleaned and trussed, into a stewpan, with some thin slices of fat bacon on the top, and chicken broth to their height; put a sheet of buttered paper over them, close the stewpan, and stew the Pigeons gently till tender. Prepare a ragofit of truffles, mushrooms, cocks’ combs and some chicken quenelles, mixed in financiere sauce. Fry a block of bread 3in. high and narrower at the top than at the bottom. Drain the Pigeons and rest them against it, put some of the ragofit round the dish, and some piled irp Fig. 253. Pigeons 1 la Financiere. between the birds. Put a larded and glazed sweetbread on the top of the bread (see Fig. 233). Pour a small quantity of financiere sauce over the Pigeons, and serve with some more in a sauceboat. Pigeons a l’lniperiale.—Clean and bone the Pigeons, and season them inwardly with small quantities of powdered allspice, mace, coriander and cardamom seeds, salt, white and cayenne pepper, nibbing it well in the flesh. Turn them the right side out again, and lay them in a deep dish. Pour into a lined saucepan 1 pint of marsala and h pint of white wine vinegar, add two or three bay- leaves, \ table-spoonful of sliced and bruised ginger, and i teaspoonful of bruised cloves. Place the saucepan over a slow fire, boil the contents gently for two or three minutes, then pour the liquor immediately over the birds. Let the birds steep in the pickle, which should well cover them, for one night; on the following morning drain and wipe them on a clean cloth. Prepare a sufficient quantity of forcemeat to stuff the birds, with their livers which should be partially boiled and finely chopped, the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs, and some breadcrumbs. Season the forcemeat to taste, bind it with beaten egg, and stuff the birds with it, giving them then- original shape. Lard the breasts of the birds with thin fillets of fat bacon, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and roll them in grated breadcrumbs. Put a large lump of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when the blue smoke rises, lay in the birds on their backs first, but afterwards turning them over on to their breasts, and fry them a light golden colour. String some cardoons, cut them into pieces a little more than lin. in length, put them in a stewpan, with some claret and a few drops of cochineal to give them a bright red colour, and cook them. When tender, place the cardoons on a hot dish; mix 1 table-spoonful of potato flour and 1 table-spoonful of butter with their cooking liquor, season it to taste with salt, Pigeons—continued. white and cayenne pepper, and stir it over the fire until thickened; then pour it over the cardoons. Drain the birds as free from fat as possible, and lay them on the bed of cardoons. Garnish them with fried parsley and cut lemons, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich brown sauce. The sauce can be made with the marinade of the birds, thickened with a brown roux. Pigeons a la Julienne.—Procure the required quantity of nice young Pigeons, pluck, singe, and draw them, and truss them as for boiling. Lay them side by side in a stewpan, moisten to height with strong clear jelly stock, and place them over the fire. When the liquor begins to boil, put in some dried julienne vegetables that have been well soaked in cold water. Season to taste with pepper, salt, and allspice, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire until the birds are sufficiently cooked. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in a basin and mix it smoothly with a small quantity of clear cold stock, also a small quantity each of walnut ketchup and Worcester sauce. Take the Pigeons out when tender, and if the vegetables are not quite cooked, boil them a little longer. When ready, stir the above mixture in with the vegetables, boil it a minute or two, then put the Pigeons back again to warm up. Arrange the Pigeons on a hot dish, pour the vegetables and sauce over them, and serve. Pigeons in Aspic Jelly.—(1) Wash and truss twelve Pigeons, put them in a large saucepan with 4lb. of the shank of veal, one onion that has been fried, one stick of celery, a bunch of sweet herbs, five or six cloves, two dozen peppercorns, and 4iqts. of water. When boiling, move the pan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer for three hours, adding at the end of the first hour 2 table-spoonfuls of salt. When ready, take the Pigeons out carefully so as not to break them, and remove the strings. Draw the saucepan forward, where it will boil rapidly, and keep it there for forty minutes; then strain the liquor through a fine hail- sieve, adding more seasoning if necessary. The liquor should be reduced to 2Jqts. during boiling. Have two large moulds that will hold six Pigeons each, pour a little of the liquor into each, and set them on ice to harden. Arrange the Pigeons on the set jelly, cover them with the liquor, which must be cool but not hardened, and set the moulds in the ice chest for twelve hours. When ready to serve, dip the moulds in tepid water, wipe them, and turn the contents on to a Fig. 234. Pigeons in Aspic Jelly. cold dish. Garnish round the dish with chopped jelly, slices of pickled beetroot, and some nicely-picked sprays of parsley (see Fig. 234), and serve with a sauceboatful of Tartar sauce. (2) Put a cow-heel in a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, the peel of half a lemon, half a blade of mace, and 3qts. of water, and boil it for six hours. Skim the fat off the jelly, clarify it with the whites and shells of three eggs, and after it has stood a few minutes strain it several times through a jelly-bag. Truss two Pigeons with their legs bent under, roast them, and when done and nicely browned leave them till cool. Pour some jelly into a mould that will hold the Pigeons, put the birds in upside-down, then fill up the mould with jelly, and keep it in a cold place. On the following day, turn the jellied Pigeons on to a dish, and serve. Pigeon and Beef-steak Pie.—Prepare and cut a couple , of Pigeons into quarters; cut five or six thin slices of