TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 1004 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. Wash it well, sprinkle with flour, put it into a frying-pan, and fry until well browned. Put it into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover, and add a carrot, two turnips, and six small onions. Put the pot on the side of the fire, cover closely, and simmer the contents gently for an-hour- and-a-half, or until the vegetables are thoroughly done. Take out the vegetables, put them on a dish to keep warm, and continue to cook the Mutton until done, which will take from four to five hours altogether, and when done, take it out of the pan, and keep it hot. Put the pan with the gravy on one side to cool, remove the fat, and then reduce it quickly to about 1 pint; thicken with 1 table-spoonful of flour mixed smooth with 2 table-spoonfuls of stock. Put in the meat again and cook slowly for thirty minutes. Chop up the vegetables, put them into a saucepan with a little butter, toss over the fire until they are quite hot, and arrange on a dish in small piles round the Mutton. Other cooked vegetables may also be used as a garnish if desired. Stewed Rolled Loin of Mutton.—Remove all the bones from a loin of Mutton that has hung until tender, and sprinkle with a little pepper, powdered allspice, cloves, and grated nutmeg, and let it remain for twenty-four hours. Beat with a cutlet-bat to flatten it, cover with hare stuffing, roll it round tightly, and tie it. Put it in a baking-dish in a slow oven, and when half done, take it out, and let it get cold. Skim off the fat from the gravy, put it into a saucepan, flour the meat well, put it in, and stew gently over a moderate fire until almost done. Pour in 1 wineglassful of port wine, 1 table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, and add a little lemon pickle and an anchovy. Stew for thirty minutes longer, put it on a dish, strain the gravy, and pour it over. Serve with jelly sauce in a boat. Stewed Shoulder of Mutton.—(1) Put a boned shoulder of Mutton into a saucepan with a little broth, parsley, cloves, bay-leaf, a small clove of garlic, a few carrots, turnips, and onions, with salt and pepper to taste, and stew gently until thoroughly cooked. Take it out, drain well, put it on a dish, pour over a little thick gravy, and sprinkle it with breadcrumbs. Mix the yolks of three eggs in a basin with a little oiled butter, spread it over the Mutton, and then cover again with breadcrumbs. Put it into a quick oven to brown, basting frequently with hot butter, take it out, put it on a dish, and serve with a little of the gravy strained and reduced. (2) Trim off all the skin and superfluous fat of a shoulder of Mutton, beat the shoulder flat and rub it with salt and pepper. Put it in a stewpan with 1 pint of water and stew over a slow fire until the moisture has reduced, then brown the meat well over a brisk fire. Peel two cucumbers, cut them into small pieces, and remove all the seeds ; peel and finely mince an onion. Drain the fat off the meat, dredge it over with flour, and pour in a little more than \ pint of water. Put the cucumbers and onions in Fig. 1241. Stewed Shoulder of Mutton. with the meat and boil them gently until tender. Then mix 1 wineglassful of vinegar with the meat and boil for a few minutes longer. Put the meat on a hot dish, garnish it with the pieces of cucumbers (see Fig. 1241), pour the gravy over, and serve. (3) Put a shoulder of Mutton into a saucepan with a little water and parboil it. Take out, and put it into another saucepan with 2qts. of veal gravy, Jib. of rice, l teaspoonful of mushroom powder, and a blade of ground mace. Put the pan over a clear fire and stew the contents gently for an hour, when the rice should lie thoroughly done. Take out the Mutton and put it in a warm place to keep Mutton—continued. hot; pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cream into the saucepan with the rice, and add a small piece of butter rolled in flour. Mix thoroughly, toss the pan over the fire, and cook the rice gently for eight minutes or so. Put the Mutton on a dish and serve with the gravy and rice poured over it. (4) STUFFED.—Remove the bone from a shoulder of Mutton, taking care not to break the skin. Prepare a forcemeat with Jib. each of ham, pork, and bacon. Stuff the shoulder with it, dust it over witli salt and pepper, and sew it up in a round shape. Put it into a gallon saucepan with 2oz. of butter, and cook quickly over a brisk fire for fifteen minutes, turning so as to cook both sides. Pour in 1 teacup- ful of brandy and lqt. of water, boil up quickly, skim off the fat, and add one onion stuck with two cloves, a small carrot, a faggot of herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-lialf, baste frequently, cover the pan, put some hot ashes on the top, and let it braise for thirty minutes. Take out the meat, put it on a dish, remove the string, and pour over the liquor which has been strained and reduced to half its original bulk. Garnish the dish with glazed turnips or onions, and serve. Stump Pie.—Cut the meat off a leg of Mutton and chop it finely. Mince ljlb. of beef-suet and mix it with the Mutton ; add also 1 table-spoonful each of finely-minced thyme and parsley, Jib. of sugar, a small quantity of mace and cloves, and salt and pepper to taste. Bind the mixture with six eggs ; butter a pie-dish, line it with a good paste, and put in the mixture; place a layer of currants, raisins, and dates on the top, cover with a flat of the paste, trim off neatly round the edges, and moisten and press them together. Bake the pie in a good oven ; when cooked lift off the cover, pour in 1 teacupful of white wine vinegar, strew brown sugar over the top, and serve. Timbale of Mutton.—Put some macaroni into a stewpan with a small lump of butter and milk and water to cover, and boil for a few minutes; then strain off the liquid. Pour over the macaroni a small quantity of clear stock, and stew gently until tender. Chop some cold Mutton, also one or two rashers of bacon, put them in the stewpan with the macaroni, add the grated peel of half a lemon, and season highly. Grate in loz. of cheese, and toss the whole over the fire until hot. Turn the mixture on to a plate and let it cool. Butter a mould, strew grated bread- crumb in it, and line it with puff paste. When the mixture is quite cold, put it in the mould, cover with paste, trimming off neatly round the edges; press them together, and bake the timbale in a rather slow oven. When cooked, turn it out of the mould on to a dish, cut off the top, and glaze the timbale. Arrange in the opening left by the removal of the top some freshly-prepared and chopped salad; garnish round the dish with parsley, slices of cucumber, and red radishes, and serve very cold. Tuginar (Turkish).-Cut about lib. of Mutton into small pieces; melt Jib. of butter in a stewpan, put in the meat, and fry until lightly browned, when pour in H pints of water and simmer gently for fifteen minutes with the lid on the pan. Season the meat to taste, put in a chopped onion and eight or nine artichoke-bottoms cut in quarters, and simmer gently until the whole is cooked; then turn the ragoftt on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croft tons of bread fried brown in butter, and serve. Tinned Mutton.—The introduction of Mutton pre- served in tins (see Australian Meat) appears to. be subject to considerable prejudice. This is certainly aggravated by those using this meat forgetting to observe that it is cooked before tinning, and therefore merely requires to be warmed up, or rechauffe, as a French cook would call it. The following receipts are worth trying: Baked Tinned Mutton.—(1) Take the meat out of a tin of Mutton, remove all the fat and gravy, and season well with finely-powdered dried basil and marjoram, giated nutmeg, salt, and a small quantity of cayenne peppei. Bind round carefully with broad tape, to keep it together, lay it on a baking-dish, and put it in the oven, basting occasionally with warmed butter. W hen the meat is hot through, remove the bindings, and place it on a hot dish.