10 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Nouilles or Nudels—continued. a tin cutter into the shape of timbales, dipping them first into egg and then into finely-sifted breadcrumbs; make a small cut on the top of each to mark out the cover, plunge them into boiling lard, and fry a light colour. Take them out, drain, remove the cover, and scoop out the inside. They can now be filled with a puree of any game, afterwards glazed, put on a napkin on a dish, and served. (2) Genoese Style—Sprinkle the insides of six well- but'ered timbale-moulds with grated fresh breadcrumb, line them with thin tart-paste, and fill with finely-shred boiled Nouilles, adding loz. of butter, and seasoning with J pinch each of salt and pepper, J pinch of nutmeg, and Joz. of grated Parmesan cheese. Thicken with 1 gill of strong Madeira sauce. Cover the moulds with pieces of tart-paste, and put into a brisk oven for six minutes. Turn the contents out of the moulds, arrange on a hot dish contain- ing 1 gill of hot Madeira sauce, and serve. Timbales of Nouilles flavoured -with Orange. With 6jz. of flour, the yolks of eight eggs, and a little salt, prepare a Nouille paste. Roll it out, and cut into strips abjut 2in. wide; flour the strips well, put them one upon another, and cut into shreds. Put these into a sauce-pan with lcjt. of boiling milk, and boil for a few minutes; then put in 6 >z. of orange sugar, 4oz. of butter, and a very little salt, and simmer gently until the Nouilles become soft and swollen. Now stir in the yolks of six eggs and the whites of two; remove the saucepan from the tire, add the whites of two eggs and 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, both well whipped, and thoroughly incorporate them. Line a timbale-mould with puff paste, fill it with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven; turn out carefully when done, and serve. This may be flavoured with vanilla or any similar ingredient. Nudels.—Although made with the same kind of paste as the Nouilles, the peculiarity of these, according to German ideas, is that they are cut into shreds or thin strips. (1) Mix in a basin 1 teaspoonful of salt with Jib. of flour, then mix in four beaten eggs and work the dough until sinoDth. Dredge flour over a paste-board, turn the dough on to it, and knead well. Roll the dough very thinly, then twist it up like a rolled jelly-cake. Cut half the roll into strips a little le\;s than Jin. thick, and the remaining half into strips about Jin. thick. Put the broader strips of paste into a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, and boil for a-quarter-of-an-liour. Put Jib. of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then throw in the narrow strips of paste, and fry until lightly browned. When cooked, turn the boiled strips of paste on to a sieve, drain well, and put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper. Next drain the other strips as free from fat as possible, and joile on the top of the boiled ones. Strew caster sugar over the Nudels, and serve with cream. (2) Put 6 >z. of sifted Hour on to a board, make a bay, and work in a little salt and the yolks of seven or eight eggs to form a stiff paste, which must be worked five times. Cut the paste into quarters, and roll these out as thinly as possible. Cut them into strips about 2in. wide, then into very thin pieces; put them into boiling broth, and cook for a few minutes, when they will be ready for use. Should the strips of paste, be required for sweetmeats they may be poached in boiling cream. (3) Put lib. of Nudels into a saucepan of salted water and boil; take them out, drain, put them into a basin, and mix in 5oz. each of grated Parmesan cheese and butter. Put in a little pepper and grated nutmeg, and 4 table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce ; turn the mixture on to a plate, and smooth it over ■with a knife. Put 5oz. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, sprinkle in 2 teacupfuls of sifted bread- crumbs, cook them gently for four or five minutes, turn out over the Nudels, and serve. Nudel-and-Ham Pudding.—Sift 1 pint of flour on a paste- [ board or table, make a hole in the centre, in which break three eggs; add a small quantity of salt, and work the I Nouilles or Nudels—continued. whole well together. Divide the paste into four equal portions, and roll each one out as thinly as possible; cover with a cloth, and leave until somewhat dry. Afterwards roll the paste out again and cut into thin strips. Put the Nudels into a stewpan of boiling salted water, and boil them for eight minutes, stirring constantly. At the end of that time turn them on to a fine sieve, pour plenty of cold water over, and let them drain until quite cold. Finely chop about 6oz. of lean boiled ham thickly butter the interior of a tin mould, strew in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumb, then fill the mould with alternate layers of the paste and ham, putting Nudels for the first and last layers. Well beat four eggs with 1 teacupful of cream and pour it over the contents of the mould, which then Fig. 11. Nudel-and-Ham Pudding. put into a moderate oven and bake for about an hour, or until it is nicely browned. When conked, turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish and serve. See Fig. 11. Nuclei Pudding.—(1) Well beat an egg with J saltspoonful of salt, stir in sufficient flour to make a stiff paste, and knead into a smooth dough. Divide into moderate-sized portions, mould them into balls, and roll out as thinly as possible. Cut into very thin strips, and when dry throw the strips into a stewpan with boiling water and a small quantity of salt, and let them simmer until soft. When cooked, drain, and put in a small lump of butter. Separate the whites and yolks of two eggs, and well beat the yolks with 2oz. of butter that has been warmed; pour in with the Nudels, then whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow and stir in at the last; sweeten to taste. Butter a mould, strew some raspings thickly over the inside, pour the Nudels into it, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Make some Nuclei paste with two eggs, sufficient flour to stiffen, and a small quantity of salt; divide the paste into moderate-sized poitions, mould them into balls, and roll them out as thinly as possible. Cut the paste into very fine strips, put them into boiling, slightly-salted water, and boil slowly until soft. Drain them, put them into a lined stewpan with 3oz. of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, four well-beaten eggs, and 3 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese ; season to taste with salt, and stir the whole over a slow fire until well mixed but not boiling. Butter a mould, turn the mixture into it, and bake until lightly browned. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve quickly. Stewed Nudels.—Make a sufficient quantity of fresh Nudels, drain them dry, and cut into thin strips. Put a lump of butter in a stewpan, and when it has melted put in the Nudels; toss them over the fire until nicely browned, being careful not to burn them. Moisten the Nudels with milk, and stew them gently until soft. When cooked, move them to the side of the fire, stir in two well-beaten eggs, and sweeten to taste; let them simmer at the edge of the lire for a minute or two without boiling, then turn on to a hot dish, and serve.