THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Ill For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. and then through the side to the back, and fasten the packthread. Care should he taken to give the birds as nice a shape as possible. Put some slices of bacon at the bottom of a large stewpan, put the Partridges in, cover them with more bacon, pour in some rich fowl broth, put the lid on, and let them simmer for twenty minutes over a slow fire. Drain the Partridges when done, put them on a hot dish, pour over them some Spanish sauce in which has been mixed a little glaze, and serve. Stewed Partridges a la Montmorency—Trass some young Partridges as for STEWED PARTRIDGES A L’ESPAGNOLE. Dip the breasts into boiling water to make them firm, then dip them into cold water, and lard them with bacon. Put some slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put the Partridges in, put some more rashers of fat bacon on the top of them, and moisten to half their height with fowl broth. Stand the stewpan oyer a brisk fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side, and let the Partridges cook for twenty minutes Glaze them, take them out, drain, and glaze them again. Put them on a hot dish, and serve with a Dutch sauce. Stewed Partridges a, la Parisienne.—Clean and truss some Partridges, put them in a stewpan with a little butter, and brown them over a brisk fire; then pour in an equal quantity each of stock, white wine, and reduced Spanish sauce, put the lid on the stewpan, and let the con- tents simmer for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Take the Par- tridges out when cooked, put them on a hot dish, and keep them hot till the sauce is ready. Skim the sauce, and boil till reduced; then stir in a lump of butter, strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve over the birds, and serve. Stewed Partridges a la St. Clair.—Draw and clean the birds, cut them in pieces, put them in a saucepan, cover them with stock, put the lid on, and stew them till tender. Put a finely-chopped small onion, 1 wineglassful of port wine, 1 dessert spoonful of ketchup, 1 teacupful of cream, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy paste, and a little pepper and salt in with the birds. When ready, turn it all on to a hot dish, and serve at once. Terrine of Partridge.—Empty two Partridges, bone them, cut them in two lengthwise, put them in a frying-pan with a little bacon-fat, and fry them lightly till the llesli is set, then take them out. Cut 'the half of a calf’s liver in slices, fry it quickly in a little bacon-fat, with a pinch of chopped onion, a sprinkling of fine herbs, and two or three little pieces of raw ham. When cold, put the liver in a mortar, pound it, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put half as much pork and bacon as there is liver in the mortar, pound it, then mix it with the liver, and season well with mixed spices, salt, and pepper. Line a terrine with thin slices of fat bacon, then fill it with the halves of the partridges and the forcemeat; add some sweet herbs and a little madeira; put a layer of forcemeat on the top. Cover with a flat of paste, put Fig. 126. Terrine of Partridges. it in the oven, and bake it for two hours, basting it occasionally. When cooked, take the flat of paste oft", put a light weight on the terrine, and let it cool; then take the fat off, and cut the preparation up. Wipe and fix the terrine on a dish: garnish round the base with a folded napkin or ornamental dish paper (see Fig. 126), and serve. FASCALINE SAUCE.—See Sauces. PASCH EGGS.—See Easter Eggs. PASSA SOUP.—See Soups PASSOVER CAKES.—Unleavened cakes made by the Jews from matso or purified flour. The following is a good receipt: Warm 1 teacupful of slightly-salted water; beat together four eggs and Jib. of matso-flour, and work in 1 teacupful of milk in which a few lumps of sugar have been dissolved, and add as much of the warm water as is required to make a rather soft mass. Turn it into a buttered tin and bake. PASTAFROIiXiE.—The literal translation of this term is “ light pastry.” Francatelli was especially famous for the manufacture of pastry to which he gave this Italian name. He manufactured it in many different ways, the two following being considered the favourites. Other varieties can be made according to the taste of the pastry-cook. (1) Slightly warm 3oz. of butter and beat it with a wooden spoon until creamy; stir in gradually C table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, and when well-mixed, whip in the yolks of five eggs, one at a time. Add 4oz. os blanched and pounded sweet almonds, twelve pounded bitter ones, and ilb. of flour. Work this mixture well, then put the paste on a floured table, and roll it out. Cover a baking- sheet with white paper, lay the paste on it, mark it into any shape desired, and place it in a moderate oven. When baked, break the Pastafrolle in the places where it is marked. (2) Beat 3oz. of slightly-warmed butter together with 6oz. of caster sugar until creamy, then whip in, one at a time, the yolks of five eggs, add 9oz. of flour, 4oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and ten bitter ones, and work the mixture well. Dredge a little flour over a table or paste- board, put the paste on it, roll it out thin, and with a tin cutter Sin. in diameter cut it out in rounds. Butter some baking-sheets, lay the flats on them, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, lay the cakes on a slab, put a dish with a very heavy weight on it over them, and leave until cold. Stick the flats together in twos, with a layer of any kind of jam spread between them. Mask the tops of the cakes with chocolate icing, and leave until it has dried upon them ; then arrange tastefully on a fancy dish, and serve. PASTE and PASTRY (Fr. Pate, Patisserie; Ger. Pastete, Pasteten hackwork; Ital. Pasta, Pasticceria; Sp. Pasta, Pasteleria).—Old-fasliioned words are these that head this article, and yet, although they, or words very much like them—probably derived from the Greek passein, to sprinkle, in allusion to the mode adopted for moisten- ing the meal—are found in the oldest English, the art of making and using Paste and Pastry is quite modern in its perfection. Indeed, so rapidly has the Pastry-cook’s art developed, that it is considered of sufficient importance to form a separate and distinct branch of cookery. To what nation we are indebted for the introduction of Pastry-making is very uncertain; probably all nations may be considered as equally concerned in the primary manufacture of flour-and-water Paste, from which primi- tive source, cakes, puddings, and pies have originated. It is to the French cook, however, that we must accord the credit of the perfection to which Pastry-making has now arrived. French Pastry is famous all over the world; this is not due to any secret of mixing or mysterious handling, but simply to skill and care. It would be impossible in the limited space available for the subject in this Encyclopaedia to produce a complete work on the art of Pastry-making; but by reason of the liberal assistance given by some of the best Pastry- makers of the world, foreign and British alike, this article will be found to give ample instruction for the pre- paration of all kinds of Paste, even to the very finest