158 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., ■ejerred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. Pheasants—continued. leg bones, a small piece of raw ham, and a few sliced vegetables, and fry them over a brisk lire. Sprinkle in a little flour to thicken the liquor, and moisten with broth and 1 wineglassful of white wine. Stir the sauce over the fire till boiling, then move the stewpan to the side, put the lid on, and let the contents cook for three-quarters- of-an-hour. Skim the fat off, and pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve into a fiat stewpan. Put in with it the trimmings of the truffles, and reduce it over a brisk fire, adding gradually 1 wineglassful of sherry. When done, strain, and keep the sauce hot. When the Pheasant 'is nearly cooked, remove the onion and herbs, put in with it the sliced truffles and 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, put the lid on, and finish cooking. Place the Pheasant on a hot dish, dividing each wing and leg in halves. Drain the fat off the stewpan, pour the sauce over the truffles, and boil it up; then pour it over the Pheasant, and serve. Pheasant Soup.—Put 6oz. of sago into a stewpan with 2qts. of Pheasant broth, and boil it; then move the stew- pan to the side of the fire. Cut the meat off a cooked Pheasant, put it in a mortar and pound it; mix with it the yolks of four or five eggs; stir this into the soup, and pass all through a fine hair sieve. Cut some macaroni in small pieces, and boil it. Stir the soup over the fire till hot, but do not let it boil. Put the macaroni in a soup-tureen, pour the soup over the macaroni, and serve. Potted Pheasant.—(1) Pluck and draw the Pheasant, wipe it clean with a damp cloth, singe it, and season the inside with pepper, salt, cloves, beaten mace, and grated nutmeg. Break the breast-bones and flatten them down. Put the bird in an earthen bowl with a large lump of ! butter, and bake it for one hour. When cooked, drain I the Pheasant, and leave it till cold; then put it into a large jar, the breast downwards, and pour in clarified butter to |in. in. thickness. Tie the jar over with paper, | and keep it in a cold place. (2) Roast some Pheasants, and let them be rather over than under done. Take the flesh of breast, wings, and merrythought clean from the bones; take oft- the skin, I mince the meat, and then pound it to a smooth paste j with rather less than one-third of its weight of fresh butter. Add and pound in by degrees a seasoning of mace, cayenne, and salt. When sufficiently seasoned, press the paste into shallow glass jars, and cover them with butter warmed till liquid. Keep the jars in a cold place. Fulled Pheasant.—Cut the flesh oft' the breast of a cold roasted Pheasant, remove the skin, and pull the meat into shreds with two forks. Prepare some cream sauce, thickening it with breadcrumbs, and put in it the pieces of Pheasant, warming them up in it. Score across the legs and drumsticks of the bird, season them anti the wings with salt and pepper, dip them in warmed butter, i lay them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, Fig. 207 Pulled Pheasant. turning them when done on one side. Put the pulled Pheasant meat and sauce on to the centre of a hot dish, arrange the broiled limbs round it (see Fig. 207), and serve. Puree of Pheasant.—Singe and draw two Pheasants, put them in a braising-pan, and braise them with 1 pint of game broth. Take the Pheasants out when done and leave them till cool. Strain the cooking liquor through a silk sieve, skim the fat off, and boil the broth with double the quantity of veloutd sauce till reduced to a creamy consistency. Chop the meat off the Pheasants finely, first removing all the skin and fat; put it in a mortar, and pound it, pouring in the prepared sauce gradually. Pass this purde through the sieve and put it in the bain-marie, when it is ready for use. Puree of Pheasant in a Croustade.—(1) Cut off the fillets of three Pheasants, cut them into halves lengthwise, trim them to a long pear shape, and lard them with thin strips of fat bacon ; put them in a buttered saute-pan and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Roast the Pheasants from which the fillets have been taken, first covering them with buttered paper. When done, cut off all the remain- ing flesh, and leave it till cold. Put the meat in a mortar and pound it with 1 table-spoonful of butter; dilute the puree with Spanish sauce that has been reduced with essence of Pheasant, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Garnish a croustade with the puree, arrange the fillets, cooked and glazed, in a circle on the top; pour the remaimder of the puree in the centre, and serve. (2) Boil some well-washed rice in water until rather dry, then mix a small quantity of butter with it. Sprinkle a little water on a baking-sheet, put the rice on it, and work it well. Butter a deep pan, put the rice in it, press it well, and stand it on ice for several hours, placing a weight on it to keep it compact. When ready for the croustade, take the rice out of the pan, carve it to the desired shape, and make a small hollow in the centre. Put the rice on a dish, and warm it slightly in a moderate oven. Coat the inside of the croustade with some sauce, and fill it with a puree of Pheasant. Cut some truffles into diamond- shaped pieces, and arrange them tastefully on the top of the puree. Brush the truffles and puree over with a paste- brash dipped in melted glaze, and serve. Puree of Pheasant with Macaroni.—Put the meat of a cooked Pheasant (cut into small pieces) in a mortar and pound it, taking care to remove the skin and sinews. Pound also the same quantity of rice, boiled in broth, mix it with the meat, and pass it all through a fine hair sieve to make the puree {see Puree). Put 3 table-spoonfuls of butter and 6 table-spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, and stir it over the fire till well mixed, but not browned ; then pour in k pint of broth, the bones of the Pheasant, 1 tea- cupful of chopped vegetables, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs. When boiling, move it to the side and let it simmer for twenty-five minutes. Skim the fat oft' the liquor, strain it, mix the puree with it, and stir it over the fire till boiling; then season it, and pour it into a soup-tureen. Serve the puree with boiled macaroni. Roasted Plieasant.—(l) Singe and truss the bird, and put inside a shallot with a lump of butter. Lard the breast, close with thin strips of bacon, and tie a slice of bacon over the larded part. Fix the bird before a clear but not too fierce fire, and roast it, basting it constantly with butter. Five minutes before taking the bird from the fire, remove the slice of bacon and brown the larded part. When cooked, place the bird on a hot dish, strew over it some crumbs of bread that have been fried brown.in butter, and serve it with a sauceboatful each of rich brown gravy and bread sauce. (2) When the Pheasant has hung till tender, pluck it, putting the neck by with the skin and feathers on; singe and draw the bird; preserve the feathers of the tail for decoration after cooking. Chop tlb. of bacon with the Pheasant’s liver and two or three cooked chickens’ livers, put them in a mortar, pound them, and pass them through a sieve. Stuff the bird with this preparation, trussing it to a nice shape; lard the breast and legs with thin strips of bacon, and bind some paper round the legs to prevent their breaking off. Fix the bird on the spit, put a large slice of bread underneath it in the dripping-pan, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting often with a paste- brush dipped in warmed butter. When cooked, take the Pheasant off the spit, arrange the slices of bread out of the dripping-pan on the dish, and stand the bird on them. Pierce the neck of the Pheasant with an iron skewer or wire, and insert in it a croft ton of fried biead, fixing it on the end of the dish in such a way as to keep the head upright; fix the tail feathers at the end of the dish, put a nicely picked and sorted bunch of watercress each side