THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 93 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Parsnips—continued. Parsnip Soup.—(1) Peel and wash seven or eight Parsnips, and put them into a saucepan with 2qts. of hot veal broth, two sliced tomatoes, and two onions that have been sliced and browned in a little butter. Put the lid on the sauce- pan, stand it by the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer from two liours-and-a-lialf to three hours. When done, pass the vegetables through a fine hah- sieve, and boil the pulp up again in the soup. Take the soup off the fire, stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten in h pint of milk, season to taste with salt and pepper, pour it into a soup- tureen, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Peel and wash one large or two small Parsnips, cut them into little pieces, and boil them in lqt. of water till quite tender; then take them out, pass them through a sieve, and put them again into the water in which they were cooked. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in \ pint of milk, stir it into the soup, and boil till the flour is cooked. Then put in salt and pepper to taste and two lumps of sugar. Pour the soup into a tureen, and serve it with croutons of fried bread, or with sippets of toast. (3) Put lib. of knuckle of veal or mutton in a saucepan with 24qts. of water, and let it boil for one hour. Peel and cut into small pieces six Parsnips and three small onions, put them into the soup, add a piece of celery and a tomato, also cut up, and boil for two hours; then pour through a strainer, rubbing the Parsnips through, and put the soup in the saucepan with J pint of cream or milk, and pepper and salt to taste. When very hot turn it into a tureen, and serve with sippets of toast on a plate. Parsnip Wine.—(1) Peel and cut 81b. of Parsnips into quarters, put them in a large pan with 2galls. of water, and boil until tender; then strain the Parsnip liquor, being very careful not to bruise the Parsnips. Pour the liquor into a cask, and mix with it 61b. of loaf sugar and loz. of cream of tartar; when it has cooled, put in a small quantity of either fresh brewers’ yeast or German yea-st. Keep the wine in a temperature of about 60deg. until fermentation ceases. When ready, put the bung firmly down in the cask and leave it for about a year. Afterwards draw the wine off, and bottle it. (2) Peel 61b. of Parsnips, cut them into quarters, or smaller if desired; put them into a pan with 41b. of sugar, loz. of cream of tartar, and 2galls. of water, and boil them. Pour the whole into a tub, let it cool, add 2oz. each of bruised cloves and ginger, and lgall. of cold boiled water. Let this remain for twelve hours, then add yeast to cause fermentation, taking care to stir this well in; when the fermentation has ceased, draw off the liquor into a cask, add the necessary finings, and bottle off in two years, or it may be bottled in six months, and left for two years before using. Scalloped Parsnips. -Mix 2 breakfast-cupfuls of cold mashed Parsnips with 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and cream, and a little pepper and salt. Put it iu a saucepan, stir it over the fire till bubbling, then take it off. Butter a baking-dish, put the preparation in it, sprinkle plenty of breadcrumbs over the top, pour a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter over, and brown it under a salamander. Serve while hot. Stewed Parsnips.—Peel and wash four large Parsnips, and boil them till tender in salted water. Take the Parsnips out when done, drain them, cut them into thin slices, and put them in a saucepan with l pint of cream, a piece of butter that has been mixed with a little flour, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt. Toss them over the fire till mixed and smooth. Turn into a hot dish and serve. PARTRIDGES (TV. Perdrix; Ger. Reblm finer; Hal. Pernice ; Sp. Perdices).—There are several species of birds of the genus Perdix, which differ from each other in some few particulars, although all of them are ranked as Partridges. Two kinds of Partridges are known to the cook: the European grey, and the French red-legged bird (bar- tavelles), the latter being sometimes found in the eastern Partridges—continued. counties of Great Britain. The grey Partridge is con- sidered the best for table when young, whereas the red- legged Partridge is at its prime when mature. In selecting grey Partridges, that is to say, those that are found chiefly in our markets, care should be taken to examine the claws and the beak, the condition of these very plainly indicating the age of the bird. Those having tender unworn beaks and sharp toes, with a fine skin over their legs, are generally reliable. Partridge shooting commences in this country on the 1st of September, and continues during the winter months. Gamekeepers recognise old birds by a horseshoe-shaped mark in the plumage of the breast. Partridges should be cleaned and trussed as follows: Pluck and singe the bird, empty it, and wipe it inside and out; cut the head off, but leave sufficient of the neck Fig. 109. Trussing a Partridge. skin to fasten back, cross the legs upon the breast keep- ing them in position by tying them to a skewer passed through the body (see Fig. 109); pass a skewer through the pinions and the breast, threading the skinned head upon the skewer; the bird is then ready for stuffing. Aspic of Partridges.—(1) Cut the fillets off the breasts of a couple of Partridges, season each fillet with salt and pepper, lay them in a buttered baking-dish, cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them. When the fillets are cooked, put them between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them until cold. Roast the remainder of the birds, then cut off all the flesh, chop it, put it in a mortar with an equal quantity of chopped lean veal and the same each of butter and breadcrumbs that have been moistened with stock and squeezed almost dry. Pound the mixture until quite smooth, then mix with it a small quantity of powdered sweet herbs, one whole egg and one yolk, and a small quantity of game stock. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Butter a plain mould, turn the mixture into it, and steam it for half-an-hour. Turn the forcemeat out of the mould and leave it until cold ; then cut it into slices, and then with the fillets into rounds of one size and thickness. Slice some cooked truffles and some hard- boiled white of egg. Pour a thin layer of liquid aspic jelly into a plain mould, and leave it until it begins to set; then arrange tastefully over it some of the above ingre- dients, pour in another layer of the jelly, then another layer of meat, &c., and jelly again alternately until the mould is full. Place the mould iu an ice-closet or other cool place. When the jelly is firm, turn the contents of the mould on to a dish garnished with sprigs of well-washed parsley, chopped aspic, and halves of hard-boiled eggs, and serve. See Fig. 110. (2) Fillet six Partridges, and trim them ; put the minion fillets in a buttered saute-pan, and cook them in the oven. When done, take them out, and leave till cold. Fry the large fillets in a little clarified butter, trim them when cooked, and dip them in some chaudfroid sauce. Decorate the inside of a round fluted cylinder-mould with the minion fillets, putting one in each rib; pour in a little aspic jelly, and put in some truffles and hard-boiled white of eggs cut in patterns. Arrange the large fillets in a circle in the mould; when the jelly has set, fill it gradually