THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 142 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Utensils,*Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. fears—continued. longer. When quite cold, cut the paste into strips about ■gin. thick and 6in. long. Tie the strips into knots, re- sembling the figure of 8, place the knots on wire trays, and put them for another hour in the screen. Candied Pears.—(1) Peel and core some Pears, and let them simmer in syrup with a squeeze of lemon-juice in it for ten minutes; turn the Pears out, pour the syrup over them, cover the basin, and leave them till the next day. Strain the syrup off the Pears, boil it up again, then pour it over the Pears. Repeat this operation the two follow- ing days, giving in all four syrapings. Drain the Pears on a cane sieve, then, when quite free from moisture, put them a little apart from each other on wire trays, rest them on dishes, and put them in a screen at a slow heat to dry them. Take the Pears off the trays when cold, and dry and pack them in boxes lined with white paper. (2) Put the Pears just as they are into boiling water, and leave them till soft; then take them out, peel them carefully, put them on a strainer, and catch the juice. Place the Pears in the oven, heated to the ordinary tem- perature for bread, and leave them there for three or four hours. When taken out and cold, press the Pears flat, plunge them into their own juice, and pack them in stone jars. Many uses can be found for Pears prepared in tliis way, and many a tasty supper-dish can be put on the table with a few minutes’ notice when the dried Pears are in the store-room ready to be worked up. Candied Pear Paste.—Boil some Pear marmalade till greatly reduced in quantity. Colour half of it with a few drops of prepared cochineal, turn each half on to a clean plate, and leave them till they are cold. With some tin-cutters cut the paste into squares, diamonds, ovals, leaves, rings, &c.; dip each with a fork in caramelled syrup, place them out of hand on a trellised wire drainer, and leave them till dry. Compote of Pears.—(1) Cut four large baking Pears into six pieces each lengthwise, but keeping one whole half for the centre of the compote; pare and core the pieces of Pears and put them in a lined pan with some 16deg. syrup (see Syrup), 1 teaspoonful of prepared cochineal, and a little lemon-peel. Boil them, and when done, drain, and arrange the quarters in a compote dish, putting the half pear in the centre. Boil the syrup till reduced to 30 deg., pour it over the Pears when cold, and serve. Compote of Pears la Princesse.—Use nine large Pears, as near one size as possible. Scrape the stalks, turn the Pears spirally from head to stalk, put them in a preserving- pan with a little syrup, and let them simmer till tender, but not too soft. A little lemon-juice squeezed in the water will keep the Pears white. When done, remove the pan off the fire and leave them till cold in the syrup. Cut off the ends of the Pears so as to leave about Jin. surface in diameter , at the stalk end. Cut some rings of angelica the same diameter as the cut part of the Pears, and put one on each. Pass some strawberries or cherries through hot syrup, then place one in each of the rings. Cut some strips of angelica and ran them through the cherry and angelica rings to imitate the stalks of the Pears. Arrange them in a compote dish, pour some syrup over them, and serve. Compote of Pears a la Victoria.—Peel seven Pears and core them through the thick ends lial f-way down the fruit; turn them spirally, and let them simmer in syrup delicately coloured with a little prepared cochineal. Drain the Pears on a cloth when done, fill the interiors with strawberry jam, put a ring of angelica on the surface of each Pear, and put a mirabelle plum in each ring, previously passing them through a little hot syrup. Arrange the Pears in a compote dish in an upright position, flavour the syrup with vanilla, pour it round the Pears, and serve. The rings are cut with two different vegetable cutters, cutting the out- side with the large cutter first. Compote of Pears a la Zing’ara.—Peel and core some Pears, cut them into thick slices, and let them simmer in syrup; when tender glaze the Pears in their own syrup Fears—continued. Cut three,oranges in slices, and remove the rind and pips, pour some boiling syrup over them and leave them to steep in it for 1 hour. Arrange the slices of orange and Pear alternately, leaning against each other in the same manner as cutlets are dished; build up the compote three tiers in elevation, and ornament them tastefully with angelica on the pieces of orange and currant jelly or damson cheese on the Pears. Flavour the syrup with brandy, pour it round them, and serve. Crisped Pears.—Peel and core some Pears (those that easily cook soft are the best), cut them into halves if large, and steep them for several hours in a syrup well flavoured with lemon. Take the Pears out, roll them in flour, and fry them in boiling lard. Drain, put them on a hot dish, and serve with a sweet sauce. Pear Charlotte.—(1) Cut some thin slices of stale bread, without the crust, and cut out a round with a ljin. in diameter tin-cutter, then cut some heart-shaped pieces of bread, and dip them and the round piece in warmed butter. Put the latter at the bottom of a plain round cliarlotte-mould, arrange the heart-shaped pieces overlapping each other round it, cut the slices of bread into strips ljin. wide and of the height of the mould, dip them in butter, and stand them all round the mould, also overlapping each other. Pare and core fifteen Bon Chretien Pears, cut them in quarters, put them in a saute-pan with a little butter and vanilla sugar, and fry them. Put the Pears in the mould when cooked, and brown the charlotte in the oven. Turn the charlotte out on to a hot dish, mask it over with reduced apricot jam, and serve. (2) Peel and core a dozen good-cooking Pears, cut them into several pieces lengthwise, and put them in a flat stewpan with a little warmed butter and half a stick of vanilla ; toss them over the fire for a few minutes to cook them slightly, then sift in a little caster sugar, and finish cooking till their moisture is reduced. Drain the Pears, mask them with a little apricot marmalade, and leave them till cool. Put Jib of butter in a saucepan and melt it, cut some thin slices of household bread, and shape the pieces like a longish triangle, the long side of which should be exactly half the diameter of the mould, slightly rounding the shorter side of the triangles; dip them one at a time in the melted butter, and arrange then rosette fashion at the bottom of a charlotte-mould with the pointed ends towards the centre. Cut some strips, lin. wide, and the same height as the mould, off some slices of household bread, dip them in the warmed butter, and range them like horses in a stable against the sides of the mould, and resting on the bread at the bottom. Warm the Pears and fill the charlotte with them; dip some broad slices of bread in the butter, lay them on the top, put the mould in the oven, and bake for twenty-five- minutes. Turn tlie charlotte out of the mould on to a hot dish, sift caster sugar over it, and serve quickly. (3) German.—Peel and core six Pears, mince them, and put them in a flat stewpan with a very little water and 1 teacupful of caster sugar; add a little lemon-peel, put the cover on the stewpan, and boil the Pears quickly for a few minutes to reduce their moisture without dissolving the Pears. Move the pan off the fire, take out the lemon- peel, and stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of apricot marmalade. Butter a charlotte-mould and line it with brioche paste; fill the mould with the Pears when cool, and put a round of the same paste on the top, trimming and pressing it round the edges. Put the charlotte in a moderate oven and bake for thirty-five minutes, turn it on to a hot dish, mix a little apricot marmalade with some light syrup and 1 teacupful of rum, pour it over the charlotte, and serve. Pear-Cream Ice.—Peel twelve mellow Pears, core and cut them in quarters, pass them through a fine hair sieve with 1 pint of cream, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and squeeze in a little lemon-juice. Turn the preparation into a freezing-pot, working it from the sides to the middle as it freezes. When frozen, put the cream in an ice mould, cover, and pack it in ice. When ready to serve, turn the contents of the mould on to a fancy dish.