147 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. L Peeling—continued. waste. Apples, potatoes, and other thin-skinned fruit and vegetables, require a very thin removal, and the better to secure this a knife-blade fitted with a guard is recommended; but most kitchen-hands are content to rely upon the dexterity of their fingers. A Peeling machine has been invented, which answers admirably, and is of much value when large quantities are included in the operation. Special information concerning the preparation of vegetables, &c., for use by Peeling is given, when necessary, under the particular headings to which the instruction refers. PEGEE.—A water-bucket made by the natives of Australia from the leaves of a Palm. PELLOW, or POOLOO.—-See Pilau. PEMBROKE PUDDING—See Puddings. PEMMICAN.—This is the name given by North American Indians to meat cut in thin slices, divested of its fat, and dried in the sun. It is then pounded and mixed with melted fat, and sometimes dried fruits, and then compressed into cakes, or stored in bags. As it contains much nourishment in a small compass, it is greatly used by explorers and other travellers over the American Continent. This word is sometimes spelt Pemican. PENELOPE PUDDING.—See Puddings. PEPPER (Fr. Poivre ; Ger. Pfefer; Ital. Pepe; Sp. Pimienta).—Kettner gives ns in his “ Book of the Table ” the following interesting piece of information: “ Much as we value Pepper, it is difficult to think of it as being at one time in Europe so precious and so scarce that it was as good as money. In Prance at that time, the taxes might be paid in Pepper; so also church dues and rents. We have all heard of peppercorn rent. Pepper was in fact cash; and to pay in Pepper, in spice, or in specie—all words meaning the same thing—became equivalent to paying in cash. In token of which, to this day specie is a common name for the hardest of hard cash—gold and silver-—as distinct from paper money.” What we term in our kitchens black Pepper is the immature fruit or berry of the black Pepper vine (Piper Fig. 196. Pepper-plant. nigrum), an Oriental climbing shrub (see Fig. 196) which is found growing wild in the East Indies, but cultivated in other tropical climates; but that which comes from Malabar is held in highest esteem for the sake of the fruit. Pepper—continued. Peppercorns may produce either black Pepper, or white Pepper. Black Pepper is the dried berry picked before it is ripe; white Pepper is produced from the ripe berry, which is red, the pulp and skin being removed and the enclosed corn dried separately. Before the corns ai-e ground they are known to cooks as mignonette Pepper, the unground black Pepper maintaining the name which should be common to both peppercorns. Red Pepper, or cayenne, will be found described under Capsicum. Long Pepper is composed of the immature fruit (dried female spikes) of the long Pepper vine (Chavica Roxburghu). The spikes are about 11 in. in length, with an indented surface, and are of a dark grey colour. In its general properties it resembles black Pepper, but it is less aromatic, though equally pungent. Elephant Pepper is merely a larger variety of this species. The root and stems, sliced and dried, form the “ pippula moola ” of the East Indies. In Cooley we find the following unsatisfactory state- ment: “The ground black Pepper of the shops is uni- versally adulterated; in fact, the public taste and judg- ment are so vitiated that the pm-e spice is unsaleable. A most respectable London firm, on commencing business supplied their customers with unadulterated ground Pepper; but in three cases out of every four it was returned on their hands and objected to, on account of its dark colour and rich pungency, which had induced the belief that it was sophisticated. The house alluded to was therefore compelled by its customers to supply them with an inferior but milder and paler article. The substances employed to lower black Pepper are known in the trade as —‘P.D.,’ ‘H.P.D.,’ and ‘ W.P.D.’—abbreviations of ‘Pepper ' dust,’ ‘hot p.d.,’ ‘white p.d.’ The first is composed of the faded leaves of autumn, dried and powdered; the second the ground husks (hulls) of black mustard, obtained from the mustard mill; and the third is common rice, finely powdered. Equal parts of black peppercorns, H.P.D., and W.P.D., form the very best ground Pepper sold. The ordinary Pepper of the shops does not contain more than ’ tli to jrth of genuine Pepper, or 2oz. to 2ioz. in the lb. Very recently ground oil-cake or linseed meal has been employed as the adulteration, instead of the old ‘ P.D.’ ” With such a record as the above it would certainly be worth the cook’s while to use a mill and grind his own Peppercorns. See Capsicum. PEPPER-BOX (Fr. Poivrier; Ger. Pfeffer-buchse). —The best kind of Pepper-box for kitchen use is one made of tin with a rather large top, somewhat closely perforated. The Pepper-caster is one of the cruet set. A very ingenious mill has been invented by which the peppercorns can be ground as used at table; but whilst deserving of every attention, it has not found much favour as yet, probably owing to the extra trouble entailed in its use. PEPPER, JAMAICA.—-See Allspice. PEPPERMINT.—The name of this plant is a com- pound of the two words pepper and mint, the plant itself being a variety (Mentha piperita) of the mint tribe. It is occasionally found growing wild in this country, but is more often cultivated for the sake of its volatile oil, which is much used by confectioners for flavouring. Extract of Peppermint for Flavouring.—1 pint of essence of Peppermint, added to h pint or 1 pint of alcohol will give the extract; or the essence may be used by itself. Peppermint Brandy.—To 40galls. of proof spirit add 4oz. of essence of Peppermint, dissolved in 95 per cent, alcohol. Colour with tlb. of powdered turmeric infused in lgall. of spirit, 95 per cent. Use this infusion in such quantity as to get the proper shade. Peppermint Candy.—Put the required quantity of clarified sugar into a sugar-boiler on the fire, and boil to the ball For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads.