975 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. and shallot, also salt and pepper to taste. Replace this mince in the skin, sew it up on the under-side, put it into a braising-pan with a little gravy made from the hones and trimmings, add also two or three large slices of veal, sliced carrots and onions, a few slices of fat bacon, a bunch of parsley, and braise slowly from three to four hours. When done put the leg on a dish, strain the liquor into another pan, reduce it to a glaze, brush over the Mutton with this, and serve with plenty of French beans separately. Broiled Briskets of Mutton.—Soak a couple of briskets of Mutton in cold water for a few hours, take them out, drain them dry, trim neatly, and remove the bone adhering to the sinews as well as the skin at the end of the ribs. Fasten both together with string, put them into a saucepan of salted water, add a few mixed vegetables, and partly boil. Take the briskets out, remove all hones, put them between two boards with a weight on top, and let them remain until quite cold, so as to have them perfectly flat. Trim and dust them over with salt and pepper, roll them in warmed butter, sprinkle with cooked parsley and fine lieibs, and cover with breadcrumbs. Broil them slowly on a gridiron over a clear fire for twenty minutes, turning them frequently. When done, put them on a dish and serve with piquant sauce in a sauceboat. Broiled Mutton Chops.—(1) Cut the chops from the loin or best end of the neck and remove some of the fat if necessary. Dust over with a little pepper, put them on a gridiron over a good clear fire, turning two or three times, and cook evenly. When done, put them on a hot dish, sprinkle with a little salt, put a small lump of butter on each, and serve very hot. They may be garnished with sliced okras and stuffed egg-plants. (2) Cut the chops from a loin of Mutton, trim them neatly, and remove all the fat. Lay them on a dish with some sliced onions, a few cloves, peppercorns, and sweet herbs, a small quantity of salt, and sufficient oil and vinegar in equal quantities to cover; put another dish over, and let them marinade for ten hours, turning occa- sionally. Afterwards broil the chops on a gridiron over a clear fire, and when cooked lay them on a hot dish on an ornamental dish-paper; finely mince three or four shallots, fry them in butter until a light brown, spread over the chops, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sharp sauce in a sauceboat. (3) Cut off some selected chops, and broil them (see i Broiling) on a gridiron over a clear fire; put them into a pan, cover tightly, and simmer for a-quarter-of-an-hour ■ at the side of the lire. Take the chops out, and put them on a dish with a piece of butter and a little salt and pepper on each. In the meantime, peel and finely chop some tomatoes, season them with a small piece of butter, salt, pepper, and sugar, and with a spoon place a little on the top of each chop. Sift a little pounded biscuit or breadcrumbs over, and serve hot. (4) Brewers’ Style—The chops should be cut from the end of a saddle of Mutton, using the whole breadth of it; beat them lightly with a cutlet-bat, and dust them over on both sides with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Brush the chops over with a paste-brush dipped in melted lard, lay them on a gridiron over a clear but not too brisk fire, and broil them, turning them I occasionally. Work well in with about 2oz. of butter 1 table spoonful of finely-chopped parsley and 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallot, and when cooked arrange the chops on a hot dish, spread the butter over them, flavour with the juice of a lemon, and serve. Broiled Mutton Chops a la Bretonne.—Pare six Mutton chops, season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and pepper, and pour a few drops of oil over each. Broil four minutes on each side, arrange them on a dish, and serve with £ pint of puree of white beans, mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot meat glaze. Broiled Mutton Chops a la, Provencal.—Flatten and pare neatly six fine, thick Mutton chops, and season them with 1 pinch of salt and £ pinch of pepper; oil them slightly with sweet-oil, and then either boil or cook them Mutton—continued. in a saute-pan for two minutes, on one side only, and lay them aside to get cold. Spread over them the garnishing il la Provencal to about Jin. in thickness, and sprinkle with breadcrumbs mixed with a little grated Parmesan cheese. Carefully place the chops in a well-buttered pan, pour a little clarified butter over, and put them into a very hot oven for five minutes, or until of a good colour. Serve with l pint of hot veloute sauce in a sauceboat. Broiled Mutton Chops a la Soyer.—Take 51b. of saddle of Mutton, cut and saw it crosswise into six pieces, flatten, pare, and trim them ; season with 1 table-spoonful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Broil them for six minutes on each side, then place them on a hot dish, and serve with a garnishing of 1 pint of fried potatoes placed round the dish. Broiled Mutton Cutlets.—(1) Season some cutlets, dip them first into melted butter, then roll them in breadcrumbs. Broil them over the fire for about eight minutes, and place them on a dish round a heap of potato balls piled up in the centre. (2) Cut off the required number of chops from a loin of Mutton, and form them into cutlets by cutting off the thickest end of each bone, and about lin. off the top of the bone. Put them into a stewpan in which a little butter has been previously melted, season with salt, and stew for a short time, but not until they are brown. Chop some parsley very fine, add a little thyme, and mix together with sufficient yolk of egg to coat the cutlets when cool, then sprinkle them with breadcrumbs seasoned with 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Broil over a clear but not brisk fire. When brown, dish them, squeeze a little lemon-juice over, or the dish in which they are served may lie garnished with thin slices of lemon cut into halves or quarters. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with French Beans.—Procure the best end of a neck of Mutton, and cut it into slices tin. thick ; remove a greater part of the fat, trim them to a nice shape, and* beat lightly with the cutlet-bat. String the required quantity of French beans, put them whole into a saucepan with plenty of boiling salted water, and boil until tender. When cooked, drain off the water, put in a large piece of butter, a moderate quantity of finely- minced parsley, the juice of half a lemon, a dust of pepper, and let them remain at the side of the fire until the cutlets are ready. Lay the cutlets on a gridiron, and Fig. 1218. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with French Beans. broil them over a clear, brisk fire, turning them when done on one side. When cooked, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, on which the beans have been piled in the centre (see Fig 1218), and serve. Broiled Mutton Cutlets with a Macedoine of Vege- tables.—Take twelve cutlets of equal size, trim off some of the fat, dust them over with salt and pepper, and dip them into warmed butter. Broil them in front of a