THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. 152 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Perry—continued. the mould with layers of pears and jelly, proceeding as before; then put it in a cold place till well set. When ready to serve, turn the jelly out on a dish, and garnish it with stewed pears. PERSICOT.—See Cordials and Liqueurs. FERSILLABE.—A French dish, consisting of sliced cold boiled beef, vinegar, and parsley. PERSIMMONS.—The fruit of the Virginian Date Palm (Diospyros virginiana). They are an inch or more in diameter, nearly round, and of a yellowish-orange colour. In taste very rough and harsh, even when quite ripe, and can only be considered eatable when softened by the action of frost. In the Southern States of America, Persimmons are pounded and made into cakes with bran; they also make a good beer when prepared as follows: Mix together some Persimmons and one-third of their quantity of corn-meal; divide the mixture into loaves, and bake them in a slow oven till firm and hard. Care should lie taken not to burn them. Then put the loaves into a clean tub, and pour over them sufficient warm water to soften them, mash them well to a thin dough, then pour in as1 much boiling water as there is dough; when well stirred, strain the mixture through a sieve and pour it into a keg or barrel. In two or three days’ tune the beer will be ready for use. PESTLE and MORTAR.-—Very useful items of the kitchen furniture are the Pestle and Mortar. Most large kitchens are fitted with metal Mortars let into a strong wood block, the Pestle having a long handle and being supported in an upright position by a slot fixed in the wall, through which the handle works. In smaller kitchens Pestles and Mortars of wedge-wood (see Fig. 201) are found sufficient for all purposes, especially if two sizes be kept, one from Gin. to 8in. diameter at the top, and another much larger. Pestles and Mortars are sometimes made of hardwood, especially for pounding meat. PETTITOES.—See Pig’s Feet. PHEASANTS (.Fr. Faisans; Ger. Fasanen; Ital. Fagiani; Sp. Faisans).—According to some authorities the word Pheasant signifies a Phasian bird, as being a native of the banks of a Grecian river, in Colchis, named Phasis. There are several varieties of Pheasants, but the common or English Pheasant (Phasianus colchicus) is now found over most of temperate Europe, and is that upon which the cook is chiefly called upon to exercise his skill. Pheasants are in season during the winter months commencing with October, and are usually sold in pairs, constituting what is called a brace. The young birds may be distinguished from the old ones by the shortness and roundness of the spur. They require to be hung until the game flavour is pronounced. They should , Pheasants—continued. be hung up by the tails and not by the necks, as is so frequently done, and the French cook says that they are fit only when the bird falls away from the tail. When preparing a Pheasant for cooking, it should be caref nlly plucked of its feathers; the tail, head, and breast being sometimes preserved for the sake of garnish- ing. Directions for carving are given under headings; some instructions are also given for trussing, the Fig. 202. Pheasant Trussed for Roasting. principle being very simple, consisting merely of bringing the legs close to the breast (see Fig. 202), then passing a skewer (a b) through the pinions and thick part of the thigh bones and securing the ends of the legs by a little skewer passed through the legs above the joints. Boiled Pheasant.—Cut off the feet, head, and neck of a Pheasant, leaving a portion of the neck skin to turn over. Mix together a scant breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs and 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped beef-suet, season with pepper, salt, and minced lemon-peel, and bind the mixture with beaten egg and 1 teaspoonful of thick cream. Stuff the bird with the mixture, fastening the skin over with a skewer, put it into a stewpan that will just contain it, cover it with cold water, and place it over the fire. When the water boils, move the pan to the edge of the fire, Fig. 203. Boiled Pheasant. take the scum off the top, and keep it simmering gently for half-an-hour. When cooked, place the Pheasant on a hot dish and serve it with a white sauce over it. Garnish with parsley and cooked button-mushrooms. See Fig. 203. Boudin of Pheasant.—(1) Cut the flesh off the bones of a cold roast Pheasant, and trim off all the skin and sinewy parts. Put the trimmings into a stewpan with about \ pint of stock, and boil them gently to make a little rich gravy. Finely mince two onions that have been boiled until tender in a little broth; mince the flesh of the Pheasant, mix it with the onions, strain the gravy over it, add 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped veal fat and sufficient breadcrumbs to render the whole consistent, and season with salt and pepper. Turn the mixture into a mortar, and pound it well; then beat in the yolks of six raw eggs. Stuff the mixture into skins, and boil them