THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 96 Partridges—continued. pan to the side of the fire, and let the sauce simmer for twenty-five minutes. At the end of that time it will he sufficiently thick. Put the Partridges, which should have been kept hot during the time the sauce was being pre- pared, on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Regence.—Truss six Partridges, having previously singed and drawn them, put a thin slice of fat bacon round each, place them in a braising-pan with some mirepoix, and cook them. Prepare a rice socle on a dish and put a plain block of rice in the middle of the socle. Cook six small larded heart sweetbreads and six chicken forcemeat quenelles, the same size as the sweet- breads. Drain, and arrange the birds on the socle against the block of rice, put a large turned mushroom on the top and a truffle at the bottom of each bird. Put the sweet- breads and quenelles alternately round the socle, and fill up the spaces between the birds with cocks’ combs and mushrooms. Stick six silver skewers garnished with cocks’ combs and crayfish in the top of the block (see Pig. 112), and serve with a sauceboatful of sauce a la rdgence. Braised Partridges and Cabbage.—(1) Truss a couple of old Partridges as for boiled chickens. Put them in a saute- pan, and brown them slightly over a brisk fire. Cut some gammon of bacon and two onions into dice, put them in a braising-pan with the Partridges, surround them with stock, and braise till three parts done. Thoroughly wash a. young cabbage, then blanch, drain, and dry it; put it in with the Partridges, and finish cooking them together. When cooked make a bed of the cabbage on a hot dish and put the Partridges on it with the pieces of bacon round. Strain the cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, boil it until reduced, keeping the Partridges hot at the same time. When ready, pour the sauce round and serve. (2) Clean and truss a couple of old Partridges with their legs inward. Put them in a pan with a little boiling water, and let them simmer till the flesh is firm. Wash and cut two large cabbages into quarters and blanch them in boiling water, with 141b. of breast of bacon cut in small pieces. When the cabbages are blanched, put them in cold water till cool. Put the bacon in a small braising- pan, then put in the birds, > cabbage well drained of water, a few turned carrots, two or three onions, a bunch of thyme and parsley, two or three bay-leaves, a little allspice, salt and pepper; put some slices of bacon over and a sheet of buttered paper on the top, moisten with a little well-seasoned broth, and put the braising- pan over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side, and let the contents simmer for three-hours-and-a-half. Take out the bacon, carrots, and onions. Put a large sieve over a dish of the same size, and place the birds in the sieve. Mould the cabbages with a clean towel into a large roll and squeeze them so as not to leave any fat. Get a plain mould, line it with thin layers of the bacon, make a kind of flower in the middle of the mould with the carrots, and put a border of small glazed onions all round the top; For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Partridges—continued. next take some of the cabbage with a spoon and fill the mould with it, making a rosette of carrots on each side of the mould, which should be full to the brim. Put the mould in the oven for a short time. When ready to serve turn the contents of the mould on to a hot dish, put a bird at each end, and cover it with Spanish sauce. (3) Prepare and truss two Partridges as for boiling, and lard them with thin fillets of fat bacon; trim off the out- side leaves of two large savoys, cut each into quarters, wash them well, and partially boil them. Drain the savoys, put them in a stewpan with the Partridges, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, a small quantity of all- spice, a hay-leaf, and a small bunch of sweet herbs, cover- ing the whole with a few thin slices of bacon and moisten- ing to height with stock. Put the lid on the stewpan, and braise the contents at the side of the fire for an-hour- and-a half. At the end of that time take the Partridges out, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and place them in the centre of a hot dish. Drain the savoys, pressing them well, and arrange them round the birds. Strain 1 pint of the cooking-liquor of the birds into a small stewpan, and boil it quickly until reduced to half-glaze; then mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of brown sauce and 1 wineglassful of sherry, season it to taste, and pour it over the cabbages. Serve while very hot. (4) Prepare four birds, put them in a stewpan with some trimmings of fat bacon, a few sliced vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt and spices to taste, moisten them to height with broth, and braise them. Trim off the out- side discoloured leaves of a nice large cabbage, wash it in several waters, divide it into four pieces, put it in a saucepan of boiling water with a lump of salt, a piece of loaf sugar, and a small lump of soda, and boil it, keeping the lid partly off' the saucepan. When cooked, drain the cabbage well, put it in a saute-pan ■with butter, and saute it. Put the cabbage on a hot dish, stalk to stalk. Drain the Partridges, and lay them by it two on each side (see Fig. 113). Strain the cooking-liquor of the birds into a small stewpan, put a piece of glaze about the size of a small walnut in it, and boil until somewhat reduced; then pour it over the birds, and serve. Braised Partridges with Game Puree.—Pluck, draw, and truss two young Partridges with their legs turned inwards, and lard the breasts with fillets of hacon. Line the bottom of a flat stewpan with bacon, put in the birds with two peeled onions, each stuck with two cloves, a small bunch of parsley, and two bay-leaves; cover the birds with a few thin slices of bacon and a sheet of buttered paper, moisten to height with white stock, and stew gently. When cooked drain and glaze the Partridges, and brown their breasts lightly under a salamander. Finely chop the livers of the birds, ' put them in a basin with 4oz. of finely- chopped beef suet, 2 breakfast-cupfuls of breadcrumbs, and season with i table-spoonful of chopped thyme and parsley in equal quantities, salt, pepper, and a small quantity of nutmeg. Pound the chopped mixture well in a mortar, bind it with beaten egg, spread thickly on two pieces of toast, lay them in a buttered baking-dish, and bake for twenty minutes. Chop and pound in the mortar about lib. of cold cooked game. Put a chopped shallot in a stewpan with ia small lump of butter, toss it over the fire for a few minutes, then put in the pounded game; pour in 4 breakfast-cupfuls of half-glaze of game and uces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads.