60 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Palates—continued. cloves, peppercorns, and mace, a sprig or so of parsley, and 3qts. of stock or water. Set the pan on the lire and cook gently for four hours. Take them out when done, press them between two dishes or boards, and let them remain until they are cold. Cut them with a tin cutter into rounds, put them into another saucepan with a little of their stock reduced to glaze, and cook slowly for ten minutes. When done, put them on a dish in a circle, pour round some Italian sauce, fill the cavity with small mushrooms, or green peas, &c., and serve. See Fig. 73. Broiled Ox-Palates.—(1) Put three Ox-palates into a basin of salted water and let them soak for several hours; take them out, put them into a saucepan with more salted water, parboil them, and scrape off the skin. Put them into another saucepan with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, and add a small lump of butter rolled in flour, one clove, one shallot, a bunch of parsley and thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan on the fire and simmer gently for about an hour; take out the palates, cover them with well-beaten yolk of egg, then roll them in breadcrumbs, and broil gently. Put them on a dish, pour some piquant sauce round them, and serve. (2) Blanch three Ox-palates for about ten minutes, and when they are cold take them out, drain, scrape them very carefully, and cut into halves. Put them into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of dripping or fat, one faggot, one onion weighing about :}lb., one clove, loz. of salt, and 3 break fast-cupfuls of broth. Put the pan on the fire and boil the contents gently for three hours. Take out the palates if done, drain them on a cloth, and remove any fat that may still be adhering to them. Place them in a circle on a dish, and serve with a little Italian sauce. Curried Ox-Palates.—Prepare two Ox-palates as for braising, cutting them up into shapes. Put them into a saucepan with sufficient brown stock to cover, and add one or two onions cut in slices, 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, half the quantity of curry paste, 2 table-spoon- fuls of flour mixed in a little stock, and salt to taste. Put the pan on the fire, stir frequently, and cook gently until the palates are done. Just before serving, add 2 table-spoonfuls of cream to the liquor, mix it in, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Fricandeau of Ox-Palates.—Wash, parboil, and skin three Ox-palates as for Broiled Palates, cut them up into squares, lard them, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry till brown; then take them out and put them on a strainer to drain. Pour a little less than 3 teacupfuls of beef gravy into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of port wine, and add 1 teaspoonful of browning, a shallot and anchovy, a little horseradish, and 1 table-spoonful of lemon pickle. Put the pan on the fire, noil it up, strain off the liquor into another saucepan con- taining the palates, and stew gently for thirty minutes. Put them on a dish when done, add a little thickening to the gravy, pour it over, and serve. Fricassee of Ox-Palates.—Rub the palates over with salt, and put them in a saucepan with a slice of lemon, a lump of butter, and sufficient water to cover. Boil the palates till the skin can be easily removed, skin them, and cut them into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter into a sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire till well mixed, but do not let it colour, then pour in gradually I pint of chicken broth, and boil. Flavour the sauce with green onions, mushrooms, and a bunch of parsley, skim it, and reduce till of the required thickness ; then strain it through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan. Put the palates into the sauce and make them hot again. Serve the palates either in a casserole of rice or a vol au-vent. Fricassee of Ox-Palates with Cucumbers.—Boil the palates in salted water with a slice of lemon and a lump of butter till tender, then drain, skin, and cut them into small pieces. Peel some cucumbers and cut them into small pieces. Put a lump of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire till well mixed, but not browned, then put in some green onions, mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and the trimmings of the onions; pour in sufficient chicken broth to make the sauce when reduced. Ox-Palates—continued. Boil the sauce till it is well flavoured with the herbs, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into another sauce- pan, put the pieces of cucumber in, and simmer them gently till tender. Take the pieces of cucumber out of the sauce, and reduce and thicken the sauce with the yolks of two eggs that have been beaten with a little cream. Put the Ox-palates and cucumbers in the sauce, and heat them up again without boiling. Turn the fricassee into a hot deep dish, and serve. Fricassee of Ox Palates with Peas.—Put the palates in a saucepan with a piece of lemon, a lump of salt, and suffi- cient water to cover, and boil them till tender. When cooked, skin the palates and cut them up. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it over the fire till well mixed, then add a few green onions and some mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and 1 pint of chicken broth. Stir the sauce till thick, then boil till somewhat reduced. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve into another saucepan. Cook some peas in butter, put them in the sauce, boil it up again, put in the palates, and flavour the sauce with sugar and salt, allowing the sugar to predominate. Serve the palates in a vol-au-vent or rice casserole. Fricassee of Ox-Palates with Truffles.—The palates must be boiled till tender in salted water in which has been put a slice of lemon and a lump of butter. Drain and skin the palates, and cut them into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of flour into a sauce- pan, and stir over the fire for ten or fifteen minutes, but do not let it take colour; then pour in gradually the re- quired quantity of chicken broth, add a few mushrooms, green onions, and a bunch of parsley, and boil the sauce till well flavoured with the herbs. Strain the sauce into another stewpan, season it with salt and sugar, and boil till reduced. Cut some truffles into small pieces, put them in a frying-pan with some butter, season with salt, and fry over a brisk fire. Move the sauce to the side of the fire and stir in a liaison of beaten yolks of eggs ; put the truffles and palates into the sauce, and make them hot again without boiling. Turn the fricassee into a deep dish or a casserole of rice, and serve. Fried Ox-Palates. —Wash, parboil, and scrape off the skin from three Ox-palates, put them into a saucepan with suffi- cient water or stock (see Stock) to cover, and boil for two hours. Take them out, cut them in halves, spread a layer of forcemeat over them, sprinkle with salt, roll them up, and tie them. Put the yolks of three eggs into a basin with 1 table-spoonful of clarified butter, and make them into a thick batter by adding flour; also add 1 wineglassful of white wine slowly. Put the palates in this batter, place them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a light brown; when done, drain them, remove the strings, set them neatly on to a dish, and serve very hot. Ox-Palates d la Financiere.—Put half-a-dozen Ox-palates into a basin of salted water, and let them soak for a few hours. Take them out, wash well, put them into a sauce- pan with more salted water, and parboil them in order to