TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 8 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. N ougat—continu ed. of a lemon in a sugar-boiler over a moderate fire and stir till the sugar is melted and boiling; then add the almonds, stir them well in, and pour the nougatina paste on a well- oiled marble slab, forming it into an oblong cake lin. thick. Cut it in squares, and when cold dip these in melted chocolate. NOUXLEES, or NUDEXiS.—These are virtually the same, the former being a French adaptation of the ori- ginal German paste; but national tastes have served in a measure to modify the shapes and applications, as will be seen in the following receipts, which are classified, in order to avoid confusion, into Nouilles, Nudels, and Dampf-Nudels. The paste is similar in all cases, con- sisting essentially of eggs and flour. Nouilles.—The best paste for these is made by working together eggs and flour in the proportion of five or six eggs to lib. of sifted flour. It is then manufactured into Nouilles, and applied to various rises. Nouilles au Gratin.—(1) Boil a sufficient quantity of Nouilles in water, drain thoroughly, and put them in a stew pan with enough cold milk to cover them, 2oz. of butter, about 4oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and pepper and grated nutmeg to taste. Toss the Nouilles about over the fire for several minutes, then pile them on a hot dish, strew plenty of grated breadcrumb over, and brown them in a brisk oven. Serve very hot. (2) Put lib. or 1 Jib. of shred Nouilles into a saucepan of salted water and boil them; take them out, drain, put them into a saucepan with a seasoning of salt and pepper, and warm them. Remove the pan from the fire, and stir in 6oz. of butter broken into small bits, 11b. of grated Parmesan cheese, and 4 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce. Put this mixture in layers in a gratin-disli with more grated Parmesan between them, cover the top with a little warmed butter, set the dish in a very slow oven with the door open, and let it remain for ten minutes. Take it out, glaze the surface to a good colour with a salamander, and serve. Nouilles a l’ltalienne.—Sift lOoz. of flour on to a board, spread it, and make a cavity in the centre. Sprinkle in a little salt, and add a few table-spoonfuls of warm water and five or six eggs. Well mb the eggs with the hand, gradually working them into the flour until a smooth paste is obtained and every particle of Hour worked in. Roll the paste into a ball, cover it with a basin, and let it remain for six or seven minutes. Then cut it in halves, roll both pieces out very thinly, put each on a cloth, and let them dry for fifteen or sixteen minutes. Cut them into strips about 2in. wide, dredge over a little flour, put the pieces one over the other, and cut them transversely into shreds. Spread these shreds out on sheets of paper, at a little distance apart, and let them diy. When wanted for use take them up, after they have been drying for about an hour, plunge into a saucepan of slightly-salted boiling water, and boil them quickly for two minutes. Remove the pan from the lire, let them remain for two minutes longer, and then turn them out on to a sieve. Put them, when dry, back into the saucepan, and mix them up with 41b. of butter pulled into little bits; add, while stirring, a little grated Parmesan cheese and a seasoning of pepper and grated nutmeg. Put the Nouilles in layers in a dish, masking each one with tomato sauce reduced with a small quantity of warm meat glaze or gravy, and serve. This paste is common in all the States of Italy, and is used in preference to macaroni in all except Naples. Nouille Cake.—Prepare a Nouille paste with the yolks of six eggs; cut it up into equal-sized pieces, put these into a saucepan with lqt. of boiling milk, and cook until done; then add 8oz. of butter and 6oz. of orange sugar. Stir well over a slow fire for about half-an-hour, so that the Nouilles may become soft and swell considerably. Stir in a little salt and the yolks of eight eggs so as to give a body to the paste; put it into a well-buttered mould, bake for two hours hi a moderate oven, turn out, and use as required, either hot or cold. Nouilles or Nudels—continued. Nouille Cake with Fruits.—Sprinkle the sides of a buttered plain border mould with minced uncooked Nouilles and afterwards line it thinly with short-paste. Put lqt. of milk into a saucepan on the fire, and as soon as it boils plunge in 6oz. of minced Nouilles; let them remain for two or three minutes, take out, drain, put into a sauce- pan with 2 table spoonfuls of cream, set the pan at the side of the fire with a cover over it, and let the Nouilles remain until they have absorbed all the moisture. Turn them out into a basin, and when they are cold stir in two eggs, a lump of butter, and a flavouring of grated lemon- zest. Put this mixture into the cavity in the mould, place in the oven, and bake gently for from thirty-five to forty minutes. Take the mould out, turn the border cake Fig. 8. Nouille Cake with Fruit. out on to a dish, fill the centre with preserved fruits cut in pieces, and then pile up cherries to form a dome. Slightly cover the border with a little apricot sauce, put a circle of greengages on the top of it (see Fig. 8), and serve. Nouille Cake with Sabayon.—Prepare a Nouille paste with the yolks of five eggs and a sufficient quantity of flour. Divide the paste into equal-sized portions, roll them out, and cut into very thin fillets. Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan, and when on the point of boiling put in the Nouilles, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and lib. of butter. Stir the mixture over the fire for two or three minutes, then move it to the side, add 4 table-spoonfuls of lemon or orange sugar, and let the whole simmer gently till of a thick, creamy consistency. Move the Nouilles away from the fire, and stir in gradually the beaten yolks of seven eggs; pour the mixture on to a buttered baking-sheet, level it off with the blade of a knife to £in. in thickness, and bake in a moderate oven. When partly baked, turn the cake over on to another buttered baking-sheet, and bake for ten minutes longer. When cooked, cut the paste into rounds with a tin cutter 14in. in diameter, arrange the pieces in a circle on a hot dish, and keep them warm. Beat the yolks of five eggs with 5 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, turn the mixture into a saucepan, add 1 breakfast- cupful of v7liite wine and a small piece of lemon-peel, and whip over a slow fire till thick, on no account letting it boil; move to the side, and continue whisking it for ten minutes. Pour half of the sabayon in the circle of the cakes, and serve them with the remainder in a sauceboat. Nouille Croquettes.—Put 1 Jib. of shred Nouille paste (called Nouilles) into a saucepan of salted water and boil for a few minutes. Take them out, drain, and put into a saucepan, with a slight seasoning of grated nutmeg and pepper; add 8oz. of butter pulled in pieces, 3 or 4 tea- cupfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, and lastly 2 table- spoonfuls of reduced bechamel sauce to thicken. Turn the whole out on to a well-buttered square baking-sheet, smooth the top over with a knife, making it about fin. thick, cover with a sheet of well-buttered paper, and let the