TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 79 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <ic., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. into the pie-dish, and pour in some of their liquor. Have ready chopped the yolks of four or six hard-boiled eggs, according to the size of the pie, spread them, together with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sifted breadcrumbs, over the Oysters, lay a sheet of puff paste over, press the edges together, trim, and crimp them. Make an ornament of puff paste in the shape of a rose or tulip, and place it in a small slit cut for the purpose in the centre of the crust; roll out some pastry very thin and cut out seven leaves, crimping them to lay round it. Bake in a quick oven. (4) Take the kidney-fat of a loin of veal, cut it into thin slices, lay them at the bottom of a pie-dish, and sprinkle with salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and grated lemon-peel to taste. Beard lqt. of Oysters, lay them on the seasoned slices of fat, pour the liquor over them, shake some more of the seasoning on the Oysters, and then lay over them the marrow of two hones. Cover the edge of the pie-dish with a strip of puff paste, cover the pie with more of the paste, and hake for about forty minutes. (5) Baltimore.—Make a crust, grease the bottom of a baking-dish, and cover it with the paste. Season 2qts. of raw Oysters (without the liquor) with spices to taste (some preferring nutmeg, mace, and cayenne pepper, other's black pepper alone), add £lb. of butter and 1 heaped tea- cupful of grated breadcrumb, put all together in the dish, and cover it with paste cut in strips, crossed or otherwise ornamented as fancy suggests. A pound of butter to 2qts. of Oysters is desired by some, but the quantity named above is preferable, especially if the Oysters are of fine quality. A pie of this size will bake -in three-quarters-of-an- hour if the oven is in good order; if the heat is not quick allow it an hour. If in baking tbe crust is likely to become too brown, put a piece of paper doubled over it, and the desired colour will be retained; if the pie looks dry when taken from the oven, pour some of the liquor that was drained from the Oysters in the dish, having previously strained and boiled it. (6) Line a well-buttered pie-dish with puff paste, then put into it 2qts. of Oysters strained free from liquor and seasoned to taste with pepper or nutmeg, mace, and cayenne. Mix with them 2oz. each of breadcrumbs and butter cut into small pieces, cover with a crust of the puff paste, and bake it. If the oven is quick three-quarters-of-an-hour will be sufficient time to cook it, but if the oven is moderate it will most likely require an hour. Oyster Pot Pie.—Drain off nearly all the liquor from igall. of Oysters and put them into a pan holding 3qts. Prepare a paste with lib. of dour, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking-powder, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water, make it like biscuit-paste, but without breaking, and as soft as possible to handle. Pat it out with the hands, cover the Oysters with it, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Make an incision in one side, remove a piece of the crust, and put in 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, loz. of butter, 1 breakfast-cupful of milk, and 1 teacupful of flour and water. Stir well, replace the piece of crust that was taken out, bake for a short time longer, and it is ready to be served. The crust should be as light as sponge and but lightly browned, and the Oysters quite cooked but not hard. Oyster Powder for Flavouring Sauces.—Open the Oysters very carefully so as not to cut them, only cutting the gristle that fastens the shells, and add for each dozen Oysters two drachms of salt. Pound them together with the salt, a few at a time in a mortar, and when all are pounded rub them through a hair sieve. Put them back again into the mortar, and pound them together with as much thoroughly dried flour as will make them into a paste. Roll this paste out several times, the last time flouring it well and rolling it out to rather less than |in. thick, then cut it into pieces about lin. square. Lay these in a Dutch oven near the fire where they will dry very gently without browning, turn them every twenty minutes, and as they begin to dry crumble them. When quite dried (they will take about four hours) pound them fine, sift them through a fine wire sieve, and put the powder into bottles, which should be corked and sealed till required for Oysters—continued. use. Three drachms of this powder is sufficient to flavour \ pint of sauce. Oyster Ragofft.—Open lqt. of Oysters, set them in their own liquor in a saucepan over the fire, and keep them hot for some time without boiling, then take them out and set them aside; meanwhile peel and pick three dozen good well-grown mushrooms, cut them in pieces (not too small), put them in a stewpan on the fire, add 2oz. of "butter, salt and pepper to taste, and let them stew gently till well done. Add the Oysters together with \ pint of fresh cream, and cook them till well mixed; taking care not to let them boil; then dish them up and serve garnished with celery-leaves and fried Oysters. Oyster Rissolettes.—Open some large Oysters, blanch them in their own liquor, and heard them. Let the liquor stand for two or three minutes, then strain it carefully into a basin. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, stir them over the lire until amalgamated, then pour in the Oyster liquor, mix- ing smoothly; add | tea- cupful each of cream and white stock, and continue stirring over the fire until thick. Chop and put the Oysters in the sauce with a moderate quantity of chopped mushrooms that have been dusted with flour and fried in butter, ami season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Make a sufficient quantity of puff paste, roll it out thin, and with a tin cutter cut it into small scalloped rounds; put a small quan- tity of the Oyster mix- ture on one half of each of the rounds (see Fig. 96) and fold the other half over, moisten round the edges with a little water, pinch them to- gether (see Fig. 97), and brush each rissolette over with a pastebrush dipped in beaten yolk of egg. Spread a sheet of buttered paper over a baking-sheet, lay the rissolettes on it, a little space between each, and bake them in a brisk oven. Spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper over a hot dish, and when the rissolettes are cooked pile them on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Oyster Salad.—(1) Clean two heads of celery, leaving a little of the green part on, and put them into a saucepan with half their bulk of tender white cabbage. Pour over sufficient boiling salted water to cover them, and boil for five minutes. Take them out, place them on a colander to drain, and mince them very fine. Put the strained liquor from a couple of dozen Oysters into a saucepan, boil it, skim it, and add a little vinegar, bruised pepper- corns, and salt. Remove the pan to the side of the fire, put in the Oysters, simmer gently for a few minutes until they are done, take them out, and turn them into a basin packed in ice to cool. Add a little oil and vinegar to the chopped celery and cabbage, spread some of it over a dish, arrange the Oysters on it, putting them close together, cover with the remainder of the mixture, smooth it over with a knife, pour over a little thin mayonnaise sauce, and serve. (2) Put lqt. of Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, cook them, take them out, drain, and season with 1 table-spoonful each of salad-oil and lemon-juice, 3 table- spoonfuls of vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste; put them into a basin packed in ice, ami let them get quite cold. Scrape and wash a head of celery, cut it into thin slices, sufficient to fill 2 breakfast-cups, and put it also in a basin packed in ice, and a lump of ice on it. When wanted for use, drain the celery, mix it with the Oysters, turn the whole out on to a dish, and serve. Fig. 96. Oyster Rissolette, Open. Fig. 97. Oyster Rissolette, Folded.