82 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. constantly until it begins to thicken, but do not let it boil or the eggs will curdle; as soon as it is smooth and scalding hot, serve it. The Oysters need so little cooking that the heat of the scalding broth is sufficient for the purpose. Oyster-and-Steak Radeau.—Make a seasoning or stuffing with 2oz. of breadcrumbs, 1 dessert-spoonful of chopped parsley, a little chopped mixed herbs, and a little pepper and salt; stir all these well together. Beat Joz. of butter to a cream, and mix the breadcrumbs, &c., with it. Beat flat a tender veal steak not cut too thick, spread the season- ing over it, or, if preferred, put a layer of bearded Oysters on it. Roll up the steak, bind it evenly with twine, put it into a pie-dish, pour round 1 breakfast-cupful of boil- ing water, cover it, put it hi the oven, and bake for forty minutes, basting frequently. Take off the cover a short time before it is done to let it brown, remove the twine, thicken the gravy with a little browned flour, and serve very hot. Oyster Toast.—(1) Chop one-dozen-and-a-half Oysters and three boned and scraped anchovies, and put them into a saucepan with loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of flour, the liquor from the Oysters, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer the con- tents gently for a few minutes. Have ready four slices of bread fried in butter, spread the mixture over them, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. These must be served very hot. (2) Put half-a-dozen Oysters in a mortar after they have been bearded and cleaned, and pound them to a pulp. Add a little cream, salt (if required) and pepper to taste, and form the mixture into a paste. Have ready some slices .of toast, spread the mixture over them, and warm them in a moderate oven for a few minutes. Take them out when done, arrange on a dish, sprinkle a little finely-minced lemon-peel over, and serve. (3) Cut some slices of bread about Jin. thick, or rather thinner, trim off the crasts, and cut the slices into pieces large enough to hold an Oyster; fry the bread, then cut some very thin rashers of bacon the same size, and fry them lightly. Put the Oysters on a gridiron in their shells, and place them over the fire till hot through. Spread the pieces of fried bread with anchovy paste, sprinkle over a very little cayenne, then lay on each a piece of fried bacon, and on the bacon one of the warmed or roasted Oysters sprinkled with a very little cayenne; pour over each a little of the Oyster liquor, and serve hot. Oysters with Villeroy Sauce.—Put a few scalded Oysters into a saucepan with some thick villeroy sauce, and warm them thoroughly. Take them out singly, being careful that they are well covered with the sauce, dip them into breadcrumbs, then into well-beaten egg, and lastly into breadcrumbs again; put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, fry, take them out when done, drain off' the fat, arrange them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Oyster Vol-au-Vent.—Put the liquor and beards of three dozen Oysters into a saucepan, and add a little pepper, cayenne, and the very finely-chopped rind and strained juice of half a lemon. Put the pan on the fire, boil up the liquor, and tliieken with 3oz. of butter rubbed into 2 table-spoonfuls of dried flour. Continue to boil until the liquor is reduced to 1 teacupful, strain it into another saucepan, add the Oysters, place the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for five or six minutes, then stir in 1 teacupful of cream, and keep the mixture warm. Prepare a paste as follows: Rub 12oz. of butter into an equal quantity of flour, and mix in the juice of a lemon added to an egg beaten up in 1 teacupful of water. Make these into a paste, handling it as little as possible, turn it out on to a WTell floured bqard, and roll it out to ljin. in thickness. Cut it with a vol-au-vent tin cutter to take off the rough edges, make it the required shape, cut round the top Jin. from the edge and Jin. deep, and bake the vol-au-vent in a hot oven for forty-five minutes. When done, carefully take out the centre, remove the soft under- done paste, and fill it up with the Oyster mixture. Arrange Oysters—continued. the vol-au-vent on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Pickled Oysters.—(1) Thoroughly cleanse and beard four dozen Oysters, put them into a saucepan, strain their liquor over them, season well with salt, allspice, cloves, and mace, and boil for a few minutes. When plump, pour \ pint of vinegar over the Oysters, boil them up again, turn them into earthenware jars, and leave until cold; then cover each jar with stout paper, tie down, and put them in a dry cupboard for use. (2) Open as many large Oysters as will fill a Jgall. jar, wash them well, put them in a stewpan, and strain their liquor over them; place the pan over the fire until the liquor is on the point of boiling, then take out the Oysters and lay them on a dish to cool. Put some mace and peppercorns in moderate quantities into the liquor, and boil for about half-an-hour, keeping it well skimmed, then leave it until quite cold. Put the Oysters in a jar, pour over them 1 pint of white wine and J pint of the best French vinegar, strain in as much of the liquor as will cover them, and close the jar well, seeing that it is perfectly air-tight. (3) Wash fifty large Oysters in their own liquor, take them out, and dry them. Strain the liquor, add salt to taste, 2 teaspoonfuls of pepper, two blades of mace, 3 table-spoonfuls of sherry, and 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and put the Oysters into this pickle. (4) Put some fine large Oysters with their own liquor into a stewpan over a gentle fire, add a lump of butter, simmer, and stir them often to prevent burning. When plump and white, take the Oysters out of the liquor, and lay them on a thickly-folded cloth till cool. Mix an equal quantity of the best vinegar with the liquor of the Oysters, and make it hot. Put a layer of the Oysters at the bottom of a stone jar, then several cloves, allspice, and whole peppers, and J teaspoonful of ground mace; then another layer of Oysters and spices, and proceed in this way until all the Oysters are pul in. Pour the prepared liquor over the Oysters, and cover the jar. On the following day they will be ready for use. If kept in a cold place, they will remain good for a month; or, put them into bottles or glass jars, pour a small quantity of sweet-oil over each, cork and seal the bottles or jars so that they are perfectly air-tight, and the Oysters may be relied upon for at least a year. (5) Put lqt. of Oysters in their own liquor in a pan over the fire and let them cook till the edges curl up; then strain them at once, put them into cold water, let them remain in it for ten minutes, and spread them on a board to drain, sprinkling with salt. Put half the Oyster liquor, an equal quantity of vinegar, a red-pepper pod (or if very small, two), 2 drachms of mace, and Joz. of cloves in a saucepan over the fire, let this mixture boil up once, pour it into a bowl, and let it stand till perfectly cold; just before taking this liquor from the fire drop into it a quarter of a lemon cut into very thin slices. When the liquor is cold, put the Oysters into a jar, pour it over them, and cover down air-tight. (6) To lgall. of Oysters allow 1 pint of vinegar, two grated nutmegs, eight blades of mace, three dozen cloves, one-dozen-and-a-half peppers, J saltspoonful of cayenne, and a lemon and a half. Put the Oysters in hot water, scald them, and, when hot through, drop them into cold water to plump, then drain them through a colander. Take ljqts. of the liquor, let it boil, skim it well, then add the seasoning. Put the Oysters hi a jar, and pour the liquor over them hot. Scalloped Oysters.—(1) Strain the Oyster liquor, rinse the Oysters in it, then plump and beard them. Measure the liquor, and add to it an equal quantity of rich white sauce; if this does not thicken it sufficiently add 1 tea- spoonful of flour rubbed into a small piece of butter, stir over the fire till pretty hot, or if the flour-and-butter is added stir till it boils and boil for ten minutes, stirring occasionally. Put in the Oysters, and keep them nearly simmering for three or four minutes, then put them into their shells with a little of the sauce, put a layer of sifted breadcrumbs on them, pour over this a little clarified