TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 13 For details respectin'l Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ibe., referred to, see under their special heads. Nuts—continued. of sugar. When the mixture is quite light and frothy, stir in two well-beaten eggs, then 1 teacupful of milk, and next 2 breakfast-cupfuls of flour, with 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and half the quantity of bicarbonate of soda. Now work in quickly 1 breakfast-cupful each of stoned raisins and blanched Nuts, very finely chopped; turn the mixture into well-greased, deep baking-pans, and hake in a moderate oven for thirty-five minutes. Turn it out when done, and serve cold. If preferred, 1 J teaspoon- fuls of baking-powder may he substituted for the cream of tartar and soda. Nut Candy.—Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar into a sugar- boiler with 1 teacupful each of vinegar and water and the strained juice of a lemon. Set the boiler on the fire, and stir until boiled to the crack (see Sugar boiling). Drop it in small quantities on a well-buttered baking- sheet, put half a blanched kernel on each, and when nearly cold cover the Nuts with more of the syrup. When the required number is done, dry the sweets on a sieve over the fire, and they are ready for use. Nut Comfits.—Remove the shells from about 81b. of Nuts; pick the kernels clean, put on a stove or on a baking- sheet in the oven, and dry for two or three days. Then put them in a pan of boiling water to blanch, nibbing them well with the fingers to remove any pieces of the skin that may remain. Take them out, drain, and dry thoroughly in front of the fire. Have ready a sufficient quantity of gum Arabic dissolved in hot water and passed through a fine sieve. Put 4|lb. of clarified sugar into a sugar-boiler, boil it to the thread degree (see SUGAR BOILING), and mix in a little of the dissolved gum to make it of the required consistency; then place the pan at the side of the fire so that the syrup will keep hot, but without boiling. Put the Nuts into the comfit-pan, pour over about 2 table-spoonfuls of the dissolved gum, spreading it over as much as possible so as to give them all a slight coating. When they are dry, give a second coating, taking care not to put in too much or it will make the Nuts too damp. When the gum is quite dry, pour over a little of the syrup to give them another coating, and continue in this way live or six times, increasing the quantity of syrup every time, but taking care to see that one coating is quite dry before another is added. The Nuts will now have had six or seven coatings, and the next one must be of syrup and gum in equal proportions, stirring them with the hand to prevent their sticking together; this will also make them smooth. Care must be taken not to have too violent a heat under them, or they will colour and spoil the effect. Sift them well in a sieve to remove any sugar-dust that may stick to them, put them back in the comfit-pan, and continue the coatings of syrup until the Nuts are of the required size. Take them out when done, and dry on a sieve in front of the fire for a day. Boil some double-refined sugar to the thread degree (see SUGAR- boiling), and give the comfits eight coatings of it, put- ting a little gum in the first and last. Dry the comfits again, and the next day give them eight or ten coatings with sugar boiled to the little pearl degree (see SUGAR- BOILING), reducing the quantity of syrup put in every time, and when each of these coatings is given reduce the heat under the pan and swing it for thirty or forty minutes before giving another coating. Let the Comfits diy for another day, then put them back in the comfit-pan with- out any heat under it, and give them three coatings with sugar boiled to the small thread degree, to give them a glossy appearance. Put them on a sieve over a slow fire, dry again, put into boxes or tins, and they are ready for use. Nut Cream-Ice.—Put the yolks of seven or eight eggs into a saucepan, beat them well, and add gradually about 12oz. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, working it to a froth with a wooden spoon, then pour in 1 pint of boiling milk, and adjl a stick of vanilla to flavour. Pour the cream into a basin, and add 6 table-spoonfuls of Nuts blanched and pounded to a paste with a few blanched sweet almonds. Let the prepara- tion cool, pass it through a fine sieve into a freezer, and it is ready for use. Nuts—continued. Nut Liqueur.—Put eight or ten green Nuts into a jar, and pour over them lqt. of brandy at 22deg. strength; place a cover over the jar, and for about three weeks put it in the sun during the day time. Next add lib. of crushed loaf sugar; let this remain for another three weeks, then filter the liqueur into bottles, cork down, and it is ready for use. This is a very digestive liqueur. Nut Pudding.—(1) Blanch about four dozen fresh Nuts, pound half of them with a few blanched sweet almonds, and put the paste into a saucepan with 1J pints of hot vanilla cream. Stir well over the fire until the mixture is thick, then let it cool, and pass it through a fine sieve into a basin ; pour a little of it at the bottom of a dome-shaped mould packed in salted ice, sprinkle over a few of the remaining Nuts cut in halves, and fill up the mould in this way. Put a round of paper on the top, then the lid of the mould, cementing it all round with a paste of flour and water, cover the mould with ice, and let it remain for an hour or so; then take it out, turn the pudding quickly on to a napkin folded on a dish, and serve. (2) Steep about ill), of small Nuts in cold water all night; on the following morning drain, and pound them in a mortar. Grate the crumb of two penny rolls and mix with the Nuts, also Jib. of chopped suet and marrow, Jib. of caster sugar, a small quantity of finely-chopped citron and orange-peel, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pinch of salt. Beat the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four, mix them with 1J pints of cream, and stir the whole in with the other ingredients. Line a buttered dish with puff paste, pour in the above mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for an-hour-and-a-half. The pudding may be served either hot or cold. NUT-CRACKERS.—Very useful instruments (see Fig. 14) upon a dessert-table when nuts are supplied. There should be several pairs if the guests are numerous, one pair being allowed to every two or three. NUTMEGS (Ft. Muscades; Ger. Muskatenusse ; It at. Noces Moscada; Sp. Nuez Moscadas).—The shelled seeds of the Myristica fragrans, or Nutmeg-tree. Lindley tells us that the Nutmeg-tree is largely cultivated in the Molucca Islands, Java, Sumatra, Bengal, &c. It is a tree from 20ft. to 25ft. in height, with oblong aromatic leaves, and fruit something like a peach (see Fig. 15), having a longitudinal groove on one side, and bursting into two pieces, when the enclosed seed, covered by the mace, is exposed. The seed itself has a thick hard outer shell, which may be removed when dry, and which encloses the nucleus of the seed, the Nutmeg of the shop. Several kinds of Nutmegs are met with in commerce, those known as Penang being the most valuable. Next to these come the Dutch or Batavian kind, and after these, those from Singapore. Dutch Nutmegs are marked on the outsides by white furrows caused by dusting them over with lime to keep away the Nutmeg-insect, which eats its way into them and destroys their aromatic principles. Besides those described above there are other Nutmegs of an infei’ior character known as the long or wild Nutmeg. These are frequently met with in the shell, or in the mace without the shell. Kettner observes of Nutmegs, that in olden times there was scarcely ever a dish that was not flavoured with Nutmeg, but now we have gone to the other extreme,