137 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. carefully without bruising them in a stone jar, and cover with weak brine. Let them stand in it for twenty-four hours. Then take them out and carefully wipe each Peach dry. Place them over the fire in a large pan, cover with cider vinegar, put in with them 1 dessert spoonful of sliced horseradish, three or four blades of mace, Joz. of stick cinnamon, a drop or two of oil of cloves, and sufficient sugar to temper the acidity of the vinegar. As the vinegar begins to get warm watch the Peaches, turning them with a wooden spoon that they may all get done evenly. As each one gets tender enough to run a needle into it, take it out and lay it in the jar. Do not let them remain over the fire long enough to shrivel or become very soft. When all the Peaches are in the jar, boil the vinegar and spices for an hour and then pour it over them. Put on the top of the jar 1 table-spoonful of olive oil. The pickle will be ready for use in a few days. Peach. Pie.—(1) Peel the Peaches, cut them in slices, and put them in a preserving-pan ; crack the stones and put in the peeled kernels, using for every pound of Peaches Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and 1 cupful of water. Put the lid on and let them stew slowly; mash the Peaches in a colander, line some buttered shallow tins with pie-crust, fill them with the Peaches and bake. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Peel lqt. of Peaches, and put them in a lined sauce- pan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar and a little water. Boil them till nearly as thick as marmalade, stirring frequently, then take them off the fire and leave till nearly cold. Mix with the Peaches 1 table-spoonful of butter; butter three shallow tin dishes, line them with short-paste, and bake them. When done, take the crusts out, and spread some of the fruit on each. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Peel some ripe Peaches and stew them till nearly, done, then sweeten to taste and boil them for two or three minutes longer. Line a buttered pie-dish with short- paste, turn the Peaches in it, place some little bits of butter in and sift dour over; put a crust on the top, moisten the edges and press them together, trimming all round close to the edge of the dish. Bake it in a quick oven. When ready to serve, sprinkle some caster sugar over the pie. (4) Butter a pie-dish and line it with a fine flaky crust; roll out a flat of paste large enough to cover the top of the pie, and bake the crust in a brisk oven for a-quarter- of-an-hour. Peel 21b. of very ripe Peaches and cut them into slices, removing the stones; put them in a basin with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of cream. When the crust is baked, put in the Peaches, place the crust cover over them, and return to the oven for five minutes. Stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, strew caster sugar over the top of the pie, and serve either hot or cold. Peach Pudding.—(1) Peel twelve ripe Peaches and cut them in pieces, put them in a basin, sprinkle caster sugar over, and let them stand for an hour. Put 1J pints of milk in a double boiler. Before preparing the Peaches, put loz. of gelatine or isinglass in 1 teacupful of milk and let it soak for an hour. Stir four beaten eggs with 2 table spoonfuls of caster sugar and the gelatine in the milk when boiling, and continue stirring for four or five minutes. Take the double boiler off the fire, and mix with the custard 1 pinch of salt and 1 wineglassful of madeira. Put the Peaches in a glass dish, and when the custard has partly cooled, pour it over and leave them for a few hours before serving. It is better if possible to make this pudding the preceding day. (2) Make a batter of 6oz. of flour, 1 saltspoonful of salt mixed in it, six well-whisked eggs, lqt. of milk, and loz. of butter warmed quite soft. Peel the Peaches but do not stone them, and lay them close together in a pudding-dish; when the oven is hot, stir into the batter J teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, pour it quickly into the dish over the Peaches, and put it instantly into the oven and bake. Serve sweet sauce with it. (3) Peel and stone sufficient ripe Peaches to make lqt. of pulp, masli them and put them in a lined saucepan with Jib of butter and the Peach kernels. Mix 2oz. of cornflour with Jib. of caster sugar, put it in with the Peaches—continued. Peaches, stir them over the fire for three or four minutes, then take the saucepan off. Beat in with the Peaches the yolks of eight eggs, 1 teacupful of cream, and J tea- cupful of Peach brandy. Butter two shallow baking- dishes, line them with pie-paste, pour in the Peach preparation, about 1 Jin. thickness, and bake for twenty minutes. Beat the whites of eight eggs with 6oz. of caster sugar, spread it over the pudding, and serve. (4) Put 2 gills of milk with 2oz. of butter into a sauce- pan, and when they boil drop in Jib. of flour, and stir immediately with a spatula as briskly as possible for two minutes; remove the pan from the fire, add the yolks of three eggs, and stir again vigorously for two minutes. Add 3oz. of powdered sugar, continue stirring, pour in 1 gill of cold milk, and mix well. Beat to a stiff froth the whites of the three eggs, and add them gradually to the prepara- tion, mixing slowly for two minutes. Butter and sugar a mould holding 3 pints, put a layer of the preparation Jin. thick1' at the bottom; have eight peeled and finely- sliced Peaches, cover with 2oz. of them, then another layer of the preparation, again the same quantity of Peaches, and repeat twice more. Place the mould in a pan, fill it to half the height of the mould with warm water, and set it in the oven to steam for an hour. Remove, turn it on a hot dish, and serve with the following sauce: Pour into a saucepan 1 pint of cold water, add Jib. of granulated sugar, and place the pan on a hot stove. Dilute loz. of cornflour in a cup with 1 gill of cold water, and when the water in the saucepan- is boiling, add the cornflour to it, stirring well for two minutes with a whisk. Take it from the fire, add immediately J gill .of kirschenwasser, and mix again for one minute; strain through a fine sieve into a sauce-bowl, and serve very hot with the pudding. (5) Italian.—Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar and 1 teacupful of boiling milk, whisk them all together, and add 1 tea- spoonful of lemon-juice. For 1 pint of tinned Peaches allow 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs. Put a layer of the Peaches on a flat dish, cover with a layer of the breadcrumbs, and proceed in this way until all are used, then pour over a small quantity of the liquid mixture, and let it absorb before pouring in more. When all the liquid is used, place the pudding in a moderate oven and bake for half-an-hour. Beat the whites of the two eggs to a stitt' froth. When cooked, take the pudding out of the oven, spread the frothed egg on the top, and over that strew 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Put it in the oven for five or six minutes to brown slightly, then take it out, and serve at once. Peaches-and-Rice Meringue.—Divide fifteen ripe Peaches in two, remove the stones, and put the Peaches in boiling water to loosen the skins; drain and peel them; put them in a basin and cover with a syrup at 28 deg. (sec Syrups). Wash Jib. of rice and boil it for ten minutes; drain it, put it in a stewpan with some cream, flavoured with vanilla, and boil it, adding more cream when likely to become too dry. When the rice is done and nearly cold, dish it, dome shaped, in the centre of a dish, in layers, alternating each layer with half of the Peaches. Coat the rice with meringue, smooth the surface, then orna- ment it with meringue squeezed through a pastry-bag. Sprinkle a little caster sugar over the shape, and put it in a slack oven to dry and lightly brown. Take the dish out of the oven and put the rest of the Peaches round the rice. Mix a little maraschino with the syrup, colour it with a few drops of vegetable carmine, put it in a sauceboat, and serve with the meringue. Peach-and-Sago Pudding.—Put Jib. of sago into a pie-dish, pour in 1 pint of cold water, and leave it to soak for three hours. At the end of that time, skin and stone lqt. of Peaches and stand them upright in the sago; strew 3oz. of caster sugar on the top. Put the pudding in a moderate oven and bake it for one hour. When cooked, stand the pie-disli with the pudding on a flat dish, and serve it while very hot. Peach. Short-Cake.—Peel lqt. of ripe Peaches, cut them into small pieces, mix with them 1 breakfast-cupful of