THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 53 Ovens—co ntinued. siderably improved upon the original idea, the action brought about by means of the Oven is essentially the same now as in the days of our Anglo-Saxon forefathers. In their time it was customary to build a baking-chamber of clay, and cover it over with the hot embers of a wood fire. Nowadays the Oven is usually constructed of iron, and forms part of an elaborate cooking-range, which will be more fully described under the headings Stoves and Ranges. The heat is supplied from various sources, such as coal, gas, hot water, steam, oil, and hot air, for all of which various merits are claimed. But for ordinary domestic purposes the Oven which is a part of the range, and heated by the same means, whether gas, fuel, or oil, as the case may be, is quite sufficient. For more extensive cookery, such as would be required in hotels, mansions, and bakeries, those previously mentioned as heated by hot air, or steam, are generally preferred. As a matter of fact, Ovens constructed on the kitchen-range principle give the best results for all purposes if carefully and scientifically used. The old-fashioned brick Oven, for which so many virtues have been claimed, especially in bread-baking, may now be considered obsolete in all modemly-constructed build- ings. Under Baking will be found some very important instructions for the management of an Oven, and the various degrees of heat required for baking special articles. OX.—The cook uses this term in a very limited sense, generally as applied to the offal only. It is the male of the beef-providing beast. Bos taurus, more commonly known as Bull, Cow, Heifer, &c. Ox-Brains.—There is not much difference, so far as the cook is concerned, between the brains of any animals excepting so far as size is concerned. Ox-brains, being larger, are better than any other for the following dish. For their treatment before cooking refer to Brains. Tried Cutlets of Ox-Brains. -Blanch the brains, put them into a saucepan with a lump of salt and boiling water to cover, and boil them slowly for half-an-hour. Drain them when ready, and divide into small pieces; dip them in well-beaten egg and then in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumb. Put a large piece of butter in a frying-pan, place it on the fire, and when it boils put in the brains and fry them until nicely browned. Drain the brains, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper, squeeze a little lemon- juice over them, garnish with slices of lemon and fried parsley (see Fig. 68), and serve. Ox-Cheek or Head.—These two may be classed under one heading, the receipts given below applying equally to both; what is styled Ox-clieek being virtually half an Ox-head. The flesh of this part of the animal is peculiarly tender and gelatinous, being therefore excep- tionally suitable for stews, soups, and jellies. Collared Ox-Cheek.—Wash an Ox-cheek, put it into a saucepan with enough salted water to cover, and boil quickly for ten minutes or so. Take it out, put it into another saucepan of salted water, and add a cow-heel or lib. of pork-rind. Set the pan at the side of the fire and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Ox-Cheek or Head—continued. simmer gently for about four hours or until the meat is quite tender; take out the meat, remove all the bones, mince the meat rather fine, sprinkle it over with salt and pepper, and also a little allspice if desired. Put it into a collaring-tin with a weight on the top, and when cold it is ready for use. Collared Ox-Head.—Take some slices off a cold boiled Ox- head, and cut each slice into small squares; cut half the quantity of fat bacon into pieces the same size, and put them together into a stewpan with a small quantity of mixed herbs, parsley, and a few cloves, tied up in a piece of muslin. Pour in about 1 pint of clear stock (the cooking-liquor of the head may be used if there is any left), season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper and salt to taste, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for an hour. Afterwards, let the mixture get cool, then turn it into a mould that has been rinsed out with cold water, removing the muslin with the herbs, and stand it in a cold temperature. When quite cold, turn the collared head out of the mould on to a dish over which has been Pig. 69. Colt.ared Ox-Head. spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish it with crofitons of aspic jelly and parsley (see Fig. 69), and serve. This makes a very tasty dish for breakfast or supper. Ox-Cheek a la Mode. -Wash an Ox-cheek and season it by rubbing well with salt, pepper, powdered mace, powdered cloves, and some finely-chopped onion. Put it in a stewpan over the fire with only as much water as will cover it, allow it to stew for two hours, let it get quite cold, and then skim off the fat. When the cheek is perfectly cold and free from fat, cut the meat into pieces about fin. square. Slice the meat of a cow-heel that has been well cleaned and boiled very tender into pieces of the same size. Mix the pieces of cow-heel and Ox- cheek together, put them into a basin, and season with pepper, salt, and a little mace. Fill up, or nearly fill up, the basin with gravy, cover it with a dish turned upside Fig. 70. Ox-Cheek a la Mode. down, put it into a slow oven, and bake for two horn's : then take it out of the oven, uncover, and set it in a cool I face. Next day, if perfectly cold, turn it out, garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 70. s, (L'c., referred to, see under their special heads.