42 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Fur details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued,. it over the fire until it comes to the boil, then move to the side, and let it simmer for a few minutes. Put the pieces of peel in a bowl, pour the boiling syrup over, and leave them until the following day; then drain the syrup off the peel, and boil it until reduced to the proper consistency. Pour the syrup over the peel again, leave it until the follow- ing day, then drain off, and boil it up again. Proceed in this manner until all the syrup is absorbed. Lay the pieces of peel apart from each other on wire sieves, and leave them in a cool place until dry. Serve in small glass dishes (see Fig. 57). Oranges Preserved in Brandy. -Take some well-shaped smooth-skinned Oranges, prick them in the middle, and lay them in cold water; then blanch in boiling water, and when tender put them again into cold water. After they have been a short time in cold water, take them out and give them seven or eight boils in sugar boiled to the small thread (see Sugar-roiling). Skim them, take the pan from the fire, and let the Oranges remain in the sugar all night. Put them over the fire again next day, boil up seven or eight times, skim them, and take the pan from the fire ; when the Oranges are sufficiently cooled, take them out of the sugar, put them into jars, and pour over equal quantities of brandy and the syrup. Cover or cork them air-tight. Orange Pudding.—(1) Baked.—Put lqt. of milk over the fire in a saucepan. Beat very light the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two together with jib. of sugar. When the milk gets very hot, but before it boils, pour it over the beaten eggs and stir well together, adding the grated yellow rind of an Orange ; then pour it into a buttered pudding-dish, put it into a pan of boiling water in the oven, and bake. Beat the whites of three eggs and two table-spoonfuls of powdered white sugar to a stiff froth, and when the pudding is done take it out of the oven, spread this froth over, and return it to the oven for two or three minutes to harden the froth. (2) Peel a quantity of Oranges, remove all the white pith, cut them in slices, put them in a stewpan with plenty of sugar, and stew over a gentle fire. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of arrowroot in a pan with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of cold water, then stir in gradually 1 pint of boiling milk, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and stir over the fire until boiling and thickened. Next move the arrow- root to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Butter a pie-dish, spread the Oranges at the bottom, put three or four very thin slices of bread-and- butter over them, and pour in the arrowroot custard. Put a few small pieces of butter about on the top, strew over plenty of moist sugar, and bake in a quick oven. When nicely browned on the top, take out the pudding, and serve hot or cold. (3) Put the grated rinds of an Orange and lemon into a basin and squeeze in their juice, taking out all the pips and seeds. Place jib. of butter in a pan, and stir in an equal quantity of sugar, working until it creams. Add three well-beaten eggs, and mix in gradually 1 table- spoonful each of brandy and wine, 1 teaspoonful of rose- water, and the orange and lemon mixture. Line a pudding- pan with some puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for lialf-an-hour. When done, sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve. (4) Put the peel of a Seville Orange into a saucepan of water, and boil until tender; pound it in a mortar, and add the juice from the Orange, two grated Naples biscuits, 8oz. of slightly-warmed butter, and 4oz. of caster sugar. Mix thoroughly, and stir in the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Put some puff paste round the edge of a dish, pour in the mixture, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an- hour. (5) Make a puff paste of 4oz. of butter, 5oz. of flour, and as little water as possible. Roll it out into a round piece, thin in the centre and thicker towards the edges, and just the size to line a soup-plate. Put it into a buttered soup- plate, press it to its shape, and with a knife trim from the edges any superfluous paste; press the edges down smooth, and crimp or notch them. Put the paste into a Oranges—continued. cold place till the pudding is ready. Place 4oz. of powdered white sugar into a pan or basin, cut up into it 4oz. of fresh butter, and if the butter is very cold and hard put the pan or basin near the fire for a few minutes to soften it, but do not let it melt or the pudding will be spoiled. Beat the butter and sugar together with the back of a wooden spoon till it is quite light and of the consistence of cream. Whisk three eggs till they are about as thick as a boiled custard, add them by degrees, and stir them in to the beaten butter and sugar. Mix together 1 table- spoonful of white wine, 1 table-spoonful of brandy, and 1 teaspoonful of rose-water, and add them by degrees to the other ingredients, stirring well all the time. Then stir in by degrees the grated rind of one lime, the grated rind of a large deep-coloured Orange, and the strained juice of both the Orange and the lime. Stir all very well together, and carefully put the pudding mixture into the soup-plate lined with puff paste, place it in a moderate oven, and bake for thirty minutes. After taking it from the oven, dredge powdered white sugar over it, and serve either hot or cold. (6) Grate the rind of a Seville Orange in a mortar, and put in with it a small chopped apple, and 4oz. each of butter and caster sugar; pound the whole until quite smooth, and pile the paste in a shallow dish; whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff snow, spread them over the top of the Orange paste, and bake in the oven. When the whites have well risen, take the pudding out of the oven, and serve without delay. (7) Peel the rinds off two Oranges as thinly as possible, put them into a mortar, and pound until smooth. Mix with it 4oz. of caster sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and the strained juice of one lemon. Beat the mixture with a wooden spoon for about twenty minutes. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly in with the above mix- ture ; turn the pudding into a buttered pie-dish, and bake it for about a-quarter-of-an-hour in a brisk oven. When cooked, serve the pudding without delay. (8) Peel half a dozen Oranges, cut them in slices and pick out all the pips, put them in a deep dish, and sift plenty of caster sugar over. Put 14 breakfast-cupfuls of milk in a lined saucepan with a piece of Orange- peel, and place it over the fire to boil. Mix 1 table- spoonful of cornflour smoothly with j breakfast-cupful of cold milk, then stir in the boiling milk, and remove the Orange-peel. Pour the whole into the saucepan, and stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of four eggs. Pour this mixture over the slices of Oranges. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a still' froth together with 2 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, spread them over the top of the pudding, and put it in the oven until set. Serve hot or cold. (9) Rub about eight stale penny sponge cakes into crumbs, put them in a basin, and pour over 1 pint of boiling milk. When well soaked, mix with them the strained juic.e of six Oranges and the grated yellow rinds of four, sweeten to taste with caster sugar, and beat the mixture well; whip six eggs thoroughly, and stir them into the above ingredients. Butter a pie-dish, line it with a good puff paste, put the above mixture in it, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, sift some caster sugar over the pudding, and serve. (10) Take three good-sized Seville Oranges, cut the peel off thin, squeeze the juice from them, and strain it. Boil the peels in plenty of water till perfectly soft, then pound them in a mortar with lib. of powdered white sugar. Beat the yolks of nine and the whites of four eggs, and mix them with the pounded Orange-peel; add jib. of butter melted to oil and the juice of the Oranges, and mix all thoroughly. Line a dish with some rich puff paste, pour in the pudding mixture, and bake for thirty minutes. (11) Warm jib. of butter without oiling it, and beat it until creamy together with jib. of caster sugar; beat the yolks of ten eggs, mix them with the beaten liutter and sugar, and squeeze in the juice of three Seville Oranges. Blanch and skin 4oz. of sweet almonds, put them in a mortar, and pound, adding occasionally a small quantity of Orange-