1002 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. (3) Trim some lean loin of Mutton cutlets to a neat shape, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until lightly browned, turning to do both sides equally. Drain the cutlets, and put them in a stewpan with a few sliced pickled cucumbers and sufficient rich broth or gravy to cover; season to taste with salt and pepper and any other kind of seasoning liked, and stew them very gently at the side of the lire for nearly two hours. At the end of that time, if the cutlets are suffi- ciently tender, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (4) Trim the cutlets to a nice shape, leaving very little fat on them, dust over with salt and pepper, and fry them in butter until just beginning to brown. Drain the cutlets, put them in a stewpan with an equal quantity of carrots, turnips, and potatoes that have been peeled and cut into small equal-sized pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, about 2 breakfast-cupfuls of clear stoek, entirely freed from fat, ami h teacupful of French tomato sauce. Let the stew simmer gently at the edge of the lire until the meat is tender, then remove the bunch of sweet herbs, and put in a small piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, and loz. of butter that has been worked up with 1 table-spoonful of flour. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and let it stew a few minutes longer. Turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, or small crofttons of fried bread, and serve. It is better to put in the turnips and potatoes after the meat has stewed a little, as they do not require so much cooking. (5) Make a forcemeat of 3oz. each of veal and suet chopped very fine, an onion peeled and chopped fine, 2oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, a small quantity of thyme, sweet marjoram, and grated nutmeg, pepper and salt to taste, 1 teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and the beaten yolks of two eggs. Take some nicely-trimmed cutlets of loin of Mutton, cover them thickly with the forcemeat, wrap each one in a buttered piece of writing-paper, lay them in a baking-tin, and bake. Or they may be stewed in a little gravy till they begin to get tender, then place each cutlet separately in a sheet of buttered writing-paper, fold the edges of the paper upwards, and twist the corners. Finish cooking on a hot gridiron over a clear fire. Serve the cutlets very hot in the papers they were cooked in. (6) Take some cutlets from a neck of Mutton, trim of! some of the fat, and put them in a saute-pan with 2oz. of butter and cover with one onion cut in slices; dust over with pepper and salt, and pour 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, 2 table-spoonfuls of salad-oil, and the same of vinegar over them. Place the pan on a moderate fire and stew gently for thirty minutes; take them out, glaze, strain the liquor, and reduce it. Put the cutlets on a dish, garnish with mashed potatoes, and put some finely-chopped mushrooms in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. (7) Cut some cutlets 4in. long from a neck of Mutton, leaving two bones in each cutlet; saw off the chine-bone, and remove one rib-bone. Lard through the lean part of the cutlet with seasoned strips of fat bacon and tongue, each lardoon being about lin. long and Jin. thick. Put the cutlets in a stewpan, cover with mirepoix and veal stock, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire; when the cutlets are done, take them out of the stock, and press them between two plates till they are cold; in the meantime skim the fat off the gravy and strain and reduce it. Put the cold cutlets in the reduced stock till hot, then arrange the cutlets in a circle round a croustade, and fill this with an onion puree made in the following manner: Cook some onions, previously peeled, in water, drain them, put them in a stewpan, cover with chicken consomnffi, boil gently for a few minutes, reduce with an equal quantity of bechamel sauce, and strain and finish with butter and chicken glaze. Pour the gravy in which the cutlets were cooked over them, and serve while hot. (8) Cut off the cutlets from a neck of Mutton, trim them nicely, taking off some of the Hat bone at the end, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till nicely browned. Put loz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table spoonful of Hour, and stir it over the fire till nicely browned, then pour in gradually some well- jseasoned veal gravy, and continue stirring it over the fire Mutton—continued. till boiling. Put the cutlets in the sauce with some trimmings of turnips, a bunch of green onions, parsley, and sweet herbs, and let them boil gently at the side of the fire till nearly done. Cut some turnips into shapes, not too small, and put them in a stewpan; take the chops out of the sauce and put them in with the turnips. Strain the cooking-liquor over the cutlets and turnips, add a small piece of sugar, and stew them gently till tender, and keep the sauce well skimmed. When cooked, turn the cutlets and turnips on to a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Stewed Mutton with Garlic (Turkish).—Cut some lean Mutton into rather small pieces, put a few peeled cloves of garlic at the bottom of a stewpan, then sprinkle in some salt, pepper, and cumin; on that lay a few of the pieces of meat, then more garlic and seasoning, and so on until all is used. Cut two onions into thin slices, fry them in butter till browned, and lay them on the meat. Moisten with f pint of water, § breakfast-cupful of wine vinegar, put the lid on the pan, and keep it at the side of the fire till the meat is tender. If it boils fast the meat will be tough. When cooked turn the stew on to a hot dish and serve. Stewed Mutton with Haricot Beans.—Cut a shoulder or breast of (Mutton in small pieces, put them into a stewpan with a little butter, cook until they brown a little, and add gradually some Mutton broth, stirring frequently. Put in the required quantity of haricots, and season with a bay-leaf, a little each of thyme, salt, and pepper, and a very small quantity of garlic. Place the pan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for about four horn's. Turn it out on a dish when done, and serve hot. Stewed Mutton with Okra Gumbos.—(1) Cut the Mutton into small pieces and put them in a deep frying-pan with loz. of butter, teacupful of water, and a small quantity of salt. When boiling, stir the meat until the moisture has somewhat reduced, but without browning it. Peel and trim several young okras ; lay the pieces of meat in a round, rather deep baking-tin ; peel and cut into slices four onions, fry them till brown in butter, then lay them, with the okras, on the top of the meat. Pour over H pints of clear Mutton broth, the juice of two lemons, and the gravy out of the frying-pan ; dust over a small quantity of salt and pepper, and put it in a hot oven. When cooked, and the okras are well browned, turn the stew carefully over on to a hot dish, dust powdered cinnamon over, garnish with crohtons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve while very hot. (2) Wash the Mutton and cut it into pieces about the size of walnuts; put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt, cover with water, and place them over the fire. When boiling, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, skim the liquor, and let it simmer till the meat is three- parts done. Peel a few onions, cut them into thin slices, put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry till beginning to brown. Peel the stalky parts and cut off the ends of several okras. Tinned okras will do nicely. Put a layer of the pieces of meat in a stewpan, then a layer of onions, next a layer of okras, and so on until all are used; pour in the liquor in which the meat was boiled, adding more broth if required, and a lump of salt. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and let the contents simmer gently until tender and the liquor has reduced to a thick consistency. Squeeze the juice of two lemons into the stew, boil it for five minutes longer, then turn it on to a hot dish ; dust pepper and powdered cin- namon over, garnish with sippets of toast or crotttons of fried bread, and serve while very hot. Stewed Mutton with Parsley (Turkish).—Cut somcr Mutton into small pieces of an equal size, put them in a saucepan with water to cover and a lump of salt, and boil gently for thirty minutes. Cut two or three onions into thin slices and fry them in butter till browned, then drain, and put them in with the meat; boil for a short time longer, then put in a few pieces of picked and washed parsley, and continue boiling till the meat is cooked. Beat