99 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—con ti n tied. Partridges as for serving, trim each joint neatly, and dip them in the above sauce, coating them well. Leave the Fig. 115. Chaudfroid of Partridges. pieces of Partridges until the sauce lias cooled on them, then arrange them in a pyramid on a dish, garnish with chopped aspic jelly (see Fig. 115), and serve. (2) Truss four Partridges, bind some buttered paper round them, fix them on a spit, and roast without browning them. When done, leave them till cold, then take off all the skin, cut the meat in pieces, and dip each piece in Partridge chaudfroid sauce. Put some decorated minion fillets of Partridge in a round border mould, fill it with aspic jelly, and leave it till set. Turn the border out of the mould on to a dish, and put a block of fried crumb of bread in the centre. Dip the pieces of Par- tridges in the sauce again, and arrange them round the bread. Garnish a silver skewer with a cock’s comb and truffle, stick it in the top of the bread, and serve. Chaudfroid of Partridges with Game Sauce.—Cut off the breasts, wings, and legs from any uncooked game; pound the carcases in a mortar, then put them in a stewpan with some chopped trimmings of bam or bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, one or two small onions and carrots, loz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a moderate quantity of spices. Toss the contents of the saucepan over the fire until very hot, then pour in 2 wineglassfuls of Marsala, and toss them about for a few minutes longer; add 1J pints of clear stock, and simmer gently at the edge of of the fire for an-hour-and-a-half. Strain the liquor, and when somewhat cooled, skim off' all the fat. Put a lump of butter in a saucepan with a moderate quantity of flour, and stir over the fire until browned; next stir in the strained liquor and 1 teacupful of unclarified aspic jelly, and when boiling move it to the side of the fire. Cut two cold roasted Partridges into joints, trimming them neatly and freeing them from all skin. Dip the pieces of Partridges in the sauce, coating them well, and leave them until the sauce is cold. Arrange the pieces of Partridges in a pyramid on a dish, garnish them with croutons of as[)ic jelly, or a border of the jelly, and serve. The wings breasts, &c. of the birds can be utilised for fillets, stews, &c. Chaudfroid of Partridges with Truffles.—Cut the breasts off five or six cold roasted Partridges, divide each into three pieces, and trim the skin and pinion-bones off. Pre- pare some chaudfroid sauce with two-thirds of brown sauce and one third of aspic jelly. Dip the pieces of Partridge in the sauce, lay them on a dish, and leave them till cool. Prepare a wooden stand with steps, mask it with fat, and fix it on a dish, placing on top a small cast subject in fat or stearine. Arrange the side fillets of the breast on the lower step, upright and overlapping, and surround them with a circle of chopped aspic; put the middle pieces of the breast on the upper step. Garnish the base of the stand with some small folded paper-cases each filled with a small glazed truffle, and serve. Compote of Partridges.—Prepare these as for Comfote of Partridges a Blanc, using, instead of broth, a little veal gravy to moisten them. The onions should be fried in butter till brown, then boiled in a little veal gravy. Truffles and mushrooms should be put in the sauce previous to reducing. Place the Partridges on a hot dish; when the sauce is thick enough, pour it over them, and serve. Compote of Partridges A, Blanc.—Singe and truss four young Partridges with their legs inward. Cut a little of the breast of bacon in small pieces, and boil them for half-an-hour in water. Drain the bacon, put it in a stew- Partridges—continued. pan, and fry lightly, but without colouring. Take the pieces of bacon out of the stewpan, put the Partridges in with a little more butter to the fat of the bacon, and fry them. When the flesh is quite firm, take them out (they should not be coloured). Put 1 table-spoonful of flour in the stewpan, and fry it lightly; pour in a little broth, till the sauce is thin enough to be skimmed, then put in some trimmings of mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and thyme, a few green onions, two or three bay-leaves, a clove, a little salt, a very small lump of sugar, and the Partridges, and let the birds stew gently till done. When cooked, drain, and put the Partridges in another stewpan with the pieces of bacon. Skim and reduce the sauce, strain it through a fine hair sieve over the birds, and set the stewpan in a bain-marie. Have some small white onions, previously boiled in a small quantity of broth in which has been put a little sugar, also some mush- rooms fried white in butter. Thicken the sauce with the yolks of four eggs that have been beaten with a little cream and lemon-juice, but do not let it boil after the eggs have been added; then put in the small onions, mush- rooms, and pieces of bacon. Put the Partridges on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Crepinettes of Partridge Fillets.—(1) Finely mince an equal quantity of raw ham, fat bacon, and truffles, and mix with it a little chopped shallot and 1 pinch of salt and pepper. Cut the fillets oft' four young Partridges, and remove all skin and bones. Split the fillets on the thick part, and stuff them with the mince. Cut some pig’s caul into squares, wrap one round each fillet, dip them in melted lard and then in breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear moderate fire. When done one side, turn them and finish the other. They will require from twelve to fourteen minutes’ cooking. Put the crepi- nettes on a hot dish, pour a little half-glaze round them, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets off' the bones of some young Par- tridges, trim off the skin, and split open the thickest part. Finely chop in equal quantities some raw ham, raw truffles, fresh fat bacon, and a small quantity of shallot. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, and stuff the split fillets with it. Season the fillets, lay a few thin slices of raw truffles on each, and wrap them separately in a square of pig’s caul, fastening them securely at the ends ; dip them in melted lard, then roll them in bread- crumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear moderate fire, turning when done on one side and cooking Fig. 116. Crepinettes of Partridge Fillets the other. They will take from ten to fifteen minutes. Arrange the fillets on a hot dish, baste them with a small quantity of half-glaze, garnish \\ ith fried parsley (see Fig. 116), and serve. Curried Partridges.—Cut some Partridges into pieces, disjointing them as when served at table, put them in a saucepan with three sliced onions and a lump of butter, and fry them till well browned. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 table-spoonful of Madras curry powder, put it in the saucepan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and stir it over the fire till mixed; then pour in gradually, while still stirring, 1 pint of stock; put in three apples, a small cabbage heart, and one pickled capsicum, all finely minced, the juice of a lemon, a little salt, and b pint of cream. Put the cover on the saucepan, stand it at the side of the fire, and stew the contents till done. When cooked, take the pieces of Partridge out, and arrange them on a hot dish; boil the sauce till reduced, then pour it over the birds, garnish with croutons of fried bread, and serve. Epigramme of Partridges.—Cut the large fillets off two roasted Partridges, leaving the minion fillets on the birds; it 2