1005 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. Mix with any gravy that may have run into the baking- dish 1 wineglassful of port wine, 1 table-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, and a small quantity of Harvey sauce; dust in a very small quantity of cayenne pepper, then pour it over the meat, and serve. (2) Open a tin of Mutton, turn out the contents, and remove all the fat and gravy. Bind the meat round with tape to prevent it falling to pieces, and dust it well with curry powder and dried sage. Peel and slice eight or ten parboiled potatoes, lay them at the bottom of a baking-dish, strew finely-chopped sage and onions over them, and put the meat on the top, flavouring with a few drops of mush- room ketchup. Bake it in a moderate oven, and baste it occasionally with some of the fat melted that was scraped off. When cooked, remove the bindings from the meat, place it on a hot dish, arrange the potatoes round it, pour over a small quantity of rich gravy, and serve. Baked Tinned Mutton in Batter.—Beat up the yolk of an egg in 1 pint of milk, and stir in smoothly sufficient flour to bring it to the consistency of ordinary batter, adding 1 saltspoonful of salt. Melt a small lump of drip- ping in a baking-dish, pour in half of the batter, lay in slices of tinned Mutton, over them strew finely-chopped parsley and onion, season with salt and pepper, pour in carefully the remainder of the batter, baste it with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed dripping, and bake in a brisk oven. Serve the meat while very hot in the dish in which it was cooked. Croquettes of Tinned Mutton.—Open a tin of Mutton, turn out the meat, scrape off all the fat and jelly, and cut and roll the meat into cone- or pear-shaped pieces; then egg-and-breadcrumb them, and fry in hot lard or dripping. To dish them lay a dish-paper or a folded napkin in the dish, place the croquettes on it with the thick end down- wards, stick into the top of each a tiny sprig of fried parsley, and serve immediately. Pried Cannelons of Tinned Mutton.—Open a tin of Mutton, turn out the meat, and scrape off all the fat and jelly. Lay on the paste-board 2 handfuls of flour, break in two eggs, add the yolk of another, about loz. of butter, J saltspoonful of salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls of milk; mix to a paste, and work it out as thin as possible with the hands. Cut and roll the meat into lengths about 3in. long, like thin sausages, enclose these pieces in the paste, dip them in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot lard or dripping. Serve with fried parsley. Pried Tinned Mutton with Onion Sauce.—Cut some Australian Tinned Mutton into slices, trim them to a nice shape, dip them in beaten egg, and then in plenty of finely-grated breadcrumb seasoned with salt and pepper. Put a large lump of lard in a flat stewpan over the fire, and when it boils put in the Mutton and fry it until nicely browned. When ready, drain the pieces of meat, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour a thick onion sauce in the centre, and serve. Minced Tinned Mutton.—(1) Mince lib. of Australian Tinned Mutton and season it with a small quantity each of chopped parsley, drives, and thyme, and salt and pepper to taste. Put the mince into a stewpan with about R breakfast cupfuls of rich gravy, and simmer gently at the edge of the fire. Afterwards pour the mince into a gratin- dish, strew a thick layer of grated breadcrumbs over the top, and baste with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Brown either under a salamander or in the oven, and serve in the dish in which it was cooked. (2) Free the contents of a tin of Mutton from all fat and jelly, and chop it very finely; peel and slice an onion, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry it a golden brown. Dredge a small quantity of flour over the onion, add some of the jelly from the meat and 1 or 2 table spoonfuls of finely-chopped parsley, season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and stir the whole over the fire until very hot, then move the stewpan to the side, put in the minced meat, and let it simmer gently for a few minutes. Peel and slice the required quantity of potatoes ; put a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, place it over the Mutton—continued. fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the slices of potatoes and fry them a golden brown. Turn the mince into the middle of a hot dish, garnish with the fried potatoes and some neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. (3) Wash 1 teacupful of rice, put it in a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cook it, and boil to a pulp; finely chop about lib. of Australian Mutton, mix it with the rice, add 1 teacupful of gravy that has been strongly flavoured with onion, and stir over the fire with a wooden spoon until the meat is thoroughly hot. Partially boil, in separate saucepans, a few carrots, turnips, and onions, then drain them, cut the turnips into small squares, slice the carrots and onions, and fry all in butter until browned. Turn the meat and rice on to a hot dish, garnish with the vegetables, and serve. Portugal Stew.—Peel two or three large Portugal onions, cut them into thin slices, put them into a frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry until nicely browned. Drain the onions, put them into a stewpan with R breakfast- cupfuls of clear gravy, and boil slowly for lialf-an-hour. Finely chop 21b. of Australian Mutton, season it with salt and pepper, and mix it in with the onions. Knead h<>'/.. of butter together with | table-spoonful of cornflour, put it into the stew, add a small quantity of burnt-sugar colouring, and stir it over the fire until thickened. When ready, turn the stew on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or small crofttons of bread fried a delicate brown in butter, and serve. Rissoles of Tinned Mutton.—Finely chop some Tinned Mutton and mix with it half its quantity of finely-grated breadcrumb, season to taste with chopped parsley, lemon- peel, sweet herbs, salt and pepper, and bind with beaten egg. Divide it into small portions, and with floured hands roll them into balls. Melt a lump of butter or lard in a frying-pan, put in the balls, and fry them until nicely browned. Drain for a few minutes on a sheet of paper, then arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. Soup made with Tinned Mutton.—Empty the contents of a 4lb. tin of Australian Mutton on to a rather fine hair sieve, and pour lqt. of boiling water over it; prepare and cut into small pieces the required quantity of carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, put them in a frying-pan with some butter, and toss them about over the fire until tender. Turn the liquor that was poured over the meat into a stewpan, put in the vegetables, season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of Worcestershire or Harvey sauce, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Pour the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve very hot with a plate of sippets of toast or crodtons of fried bread. Stewed Tinned Mutton with Celery.—Cut lib. or 21b. of Tinned Australian Mutton into slices, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and leave them for an hour. Wash two or three large white heads of celery and cut them into pieces about 3in. long. Put them in a stewpan with loz. of butter and milk to cover, and boil gently. When the celery is tender, mix in with it 1 scant table-spoonful of cornflour that has been smoothly mixed with a small quantity of cold milk, season to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and stir it over the fire until thickened, then move it to the side. Dip the slices of Mutton again in beaten egg and breadcrumbs; put a large lump of lard or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the Mutton and fry until nicely browned. Drain the slices, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pile the celery in the centre, pour over the sauce from the celery, and serve. Tinned-Mutton Cakes.—(1) Take the meat out of a tin of Mutton and free it as much as possible from fat and jelly, mix with it boned and finely-chopped anchovies, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized cakes, and roll them in flour; put a lump of clarified fat or butter into a frying-pan, place it over the fire, and when very hot put in the cakes, and fry them until nicely browned all over. Place the