74 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For ditails respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—con ti nued. Oysters an Gratin.—Put in a small lined stewpan Jib. of butter and 1 teacupful of cream, and stir them over the fire until well mingled. Add to the mixture 1 wineglassful of wine, 1 table-spoonful of anchovy sauce, and a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and grated lemon-peel, and continue stirring over the fire until hot. Pour half of the above mixture on to a dish, lay the Oysters on it, strew Parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs over them, dust lightly with salt and pepper, pour over the remainder of the cream and butter, and strew another thin layer of crumbs and cheese on the top. Bake until nicely browned in a brisk oven and serve while hot. Oysters a l’Indiemie.—Put | table-spoonful each of curry powder and flour in a small saucepan; mix in gradually 1 teacupful of cream, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped onion, and the same quantity of finely-chopped apple, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew the whole gently for twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. Put 1 tea- cupful of well-washed rice in a saucepan of water and boil it until tender. The rice should be quite dry when cooked. Put a dozen Oysters in the sauce with a squeeze of lemon-juice, and leave them until hot. Make a wall of the rice on a hot dish, and pour the Oysters hi the centre. Serve while very hot. Oysters a la Minute.—Open some Oysters and put them on a fine hair sieve until well drained. Put 1 table-spoonful of coulis hi a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and a glass of champagne, and place it over the fire until boiling. Mix the Oyster liquor with the sauce and continue boiling until somewhat reduced. Next put in the Oysters and toss them over the fire for a minute or two. Turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets or toast on small croutons of fried bread, and serve. Oysters en Papillotes. —Put some cold cooked potatoes into a basin and mash them, adding gradually sufficient butter and flour to make them hito a stiff paste. Roll this out on a board, cut' it into lozenge-shaped pieces, put three Oysters together on each piece, roll them up, and bake in a moderate oven until done and of a light brown. Put them on a dish and serve hot. Oysters a la Poulettc.—Put thirty-six freshly-opened Oysters in a saucepan with a little of their own liquor, loz. of butter, \ pinch each of salt and pepper, and par- boil for three minutes, adding J pint of hollandaise sauce; stew well together for two minutes longer, but without letting the liquor boil, add 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of half a lemon, stir slightly, and serve very hot. Oysters a la St. Bernard.—Open the required quantity of Oysters, put them in a saucepan, strain over their own liquor, and partially boil them. Drain the Oysters, remove their beards, and dip them twice in egg and breadcrumbs. Season some rich brown gravy with minced parsley and sweet herbs, a small quantity of mace, and salt and pepper to taste ; thicken the gravy with butter rolled in flour, stirring it over the fire until boiling. Melt a lump of lard in a flat stewpan, put in the Oysters, and fry them a golden brown ; when cooked, drain, and put them in the gravy. Boil the whole up gently, then turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley and cut lemons, and serve without delay. Oysters a la d'Uxelles.—Put some Oysters into a sauce- pan of boiling water, let them remain for about a minute or so, take them out, and plunge them in cold water. Place them on a plate with another one on the top to keep them flat, and let them remain until quite cold. Cut them open horizontally but not quite through, mask them inside with a layer about Jin. thick of reduced d’Uxelles sauce, close them together, dip them into frying-batter, and fry until they are done and quite crisp. Put them on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with more of the sauce in a sauceboat. Oyster Bouchees.—Blanch two dozen Oysters and turn ten mushrooms ; cut both into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with some German sauce, and stir over the fire till hot. Prepare some puff paste, giving it six turns, roll Oysters—continued. it out to about Jin. in thickness, and with a fluted tin cutter, about 2in. in diameter cut eighteen rounds out of the paste. Arrange the pieces of paste on a baking-sheet, let them rest on ice for ten minutes, then brush over with beaten egg, and with a plain tin cutter ljin. in diameter cut through the centre of each bouchee, to about one-third the thickness of the paste. Bake the bouchees in a quick oven, and when cooked, lift off the inner circle of the paste, and hollow them out inside. Fill the bouchees with the salpifon of Oysters and mushrooms, and replace the covers. Arrange the bouchees on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin on a dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Oyster Cakes.—Beard a dozen or two Oysters, chop them together with an equal quantity of veal, put all together in a mortar with ‘2oz. of chopped beef suet, and pound until smooth ; add about a third of the quantity of grated breadcrumb, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little pounded mace, moisten the whole with a well-beaten egg and a small quantity of the Oyster liquor, and mould it into round flat cakes. Put a large lump of lard or clarified dripping into a flat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the cakes and fry them till golden brown. Drain the cakes well, put them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Oyster Canapees.--Finely chop a dozen Oysters, put them in a saucepan with 1 teaspoonful of cracker dust or finely- grated breadcrumb, a small lump of butter about the size of a walnut, and J teacupful of thick cream, and season with pepper and salt. Stir the mixture over the fire and let it simmer for a few minutes. Cut some slices of bread about Jin. in thickness, butter them, and put them on a hot dish. Pour the mixture over the bread-and-butter, and serve it while hot. Oysters in Cases.—Open and blanch twenty-four medium- sized Oysters in a saute-pan with 1 wineglassful of white wine and loz. of butter, and season with a pinch of pepper and a taste of nutmeg. Let them cook for five minutes, then add 1 pint of well-reduced veloute sauce, and cook for another five minutes, adding Joz. of crayfish butter, and stirring occasionally. Fill six buttered paper cases with four Oysters each and the garnishing equally divided. Sprinkle over a little fresh breadcrumbs, and arrange them on a tin roasting-pan. Spread a very little butter over each patty, and put them in a moderate oven for five minutes. Have a hot dish ready with a folded napkin spread over it, arrange the patties on it, and serve. Oysters in Caviare Bolls.—Pass Jib. of dried flour through a fine sieve; take 4oz. of it and mix it with 1 teacupful of milk and Joz. of yeast. Put the remainder into a basin, make a hole in the centre, sprinkle in a little salt, and add the yolks of three eggs, 3oz. of warmed butter, and sufficient lukewarm milk to make it into a stiff paste. Work vigorously for eight minutes, and leave it hi a warm place until wanted. Put the dough in front of the fire, and when it has risen to double its original bulk add it to the paste, work well for five or six minutes longer, place a cloth over the basin, put it back in front of the fire at only a moderate temperature, and let it remain for two hours. Turn it out on to a well-floured board or table, and when quite cold cut it in quarters, roll each out into a long shape, and cut them transversely into pieces so that when they are rolled up they will be of the size of a walnut. Form them into balls, and put them on a baking-slieet at a little distance from one another. Let them stand for lialf-an-hour or so, then brush them over with egg, and bake in a moderate oven until done. Take them out, and when quite cold scoop out a little from each, fill the cavity with caviare, put an Oyster in the centre; and serve on a dish garnished with parsley. Oyster Chartreuse.—Pare six large potatoes, put them into a saucepan of water, and boil. Take them out when done, niash them, and add 1 gill of milk, salt and pepper to taste, 1 table-spoonful of butter, and lastly the whites