94 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Partridges—continued. with more jelly and leave it till set. Prepare a idee socle, put it on a dish, and mask it with ravigote butter; turn the contents of the mould on to it, arrange some croutons and chopped aspic round the dish, and serve. Ballotines of Partridge.—(1) Bone the birds carefully, lay them open, and dust them over with salt, pepper, and powdered sweet herbs. Prepare a sufficient quantity of forcemeat with poultry livers, bacon, shallots, and sweet herbs, and season it to taste with sal-t and pepper. Line the inside of the birds with the forcemeat, then lay over that a few thin strips of cold tongue, blanched pistachio- nuts, and cooked truffles. Roll the birds up tightly, bind each one hi a separate piece of cloth, put them into a stewpan, moisten to their height with stock, and boil gently for half-an-hcur. Drain the birds, remove the cloths, bind them up again tightly, put them between two dishes with a moderate weight on the top, and leave until quite cold. When ready, unbind the birds, trim them neatly, and brush them over with liquid glaze. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a dish, lay the birds on it, garnish them with croutons of aspic jelly or a circle of chopped jelly, and serve. (2) Clean and bone five red Partridges. Cut some tongue and truffles in dice, and mix them with galan tine forcemeat. Stuff the Partridges with this, roll them, and tie each one in a cloth; put them in a stewpan with some mirepoix, and cook them. When done, leave them . till cool; then drain, take them out of the cloths, put them in fresh ones, and leave till quite cold. Take the cloths off the ballotines, trim them at each end, and glaze them until game glaze. Make a round rice socle on a dish, mask it with montpellier butter, putting a pat of it on the centre. Arrange the ballotines on the socle. Make a small vase of prepared udder or fat, put a crop ton of aspic jelly in it, and put it on the pat of butter. Garnish the top of each ballotine with eroftfons of aspic and chopped jelly, put some more croft tons round the base of the circle, and serve. Fig. 111. Boiled Partridges with Cream Sauce. Boiled Partridges with Cream Sauce.—Pluck, singe, and draw six birds without breaking the entrails, wipe them For details respecting Culinary Processes, Partridges—continued. with a wet towel, and put them in a pan with suffi- cient boiling water to cover; add 1 table-spoonful of salt, and boil them steadily and gently for fifteen minutes. Mean- while put h pint of thick cream into a saucepan set in a pan of boiling water, add to it 1 table-spoonful of butter and J saltspoonful of white pepper, and stir one way until the butter is melted; then leave the sauce where it will keep hot. When the Partridges are done, put them on a hot dish, dry them with a soft cloth, pour the cream sauce over (see Fig. Ill), and serve them hot, garnished with sprigs of parsley. Boudins of Partridge.—(1) Remove the skin and bone from a Partridge, chop the meat, put it in a mortar, and pound it until quite smooth. Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan with 2oz. of flour, and stir it over the fire until mixed; then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of stock, and continue stirring it until boiling. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, mix hi the pounded meat, £ teacupful of cream, and the yolks of four eggs. Season to taste with salt ami pepper, return the saucepan to the fire, and stir the con- tents until the eggs are set. Put the mixture on a dish, spread it out, and leave it until cold. Wash eight or ten truffles, put them in a saucepan, cover with cold water, and boil for ten minutes. Drain and finely chop the truffles, and mix them in with the forcemeat. Cut the mixture into small equal-sized pieces, roll them into the shape of pears, dip them in the well-beaten whites of the eggs, and then roll them in finely-grated bread- crumb, giving them a good coating. Put a lump of clari- fied fat in a frying-pan, set it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then drop in the boudins, and fry them until lightly browned. As the boudins are cooked, put them on a sheet of paper in front of the fire, and drain them thoroughly. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish paper over a hot dish, pile the boudins in the centre, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets off three young Partridges, trim off the skin and sinews, and chop and pound the meat. Chop and pound a boiled calf’s udder, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix it with the pounded Partridge, adding a third of the quantity of bread panada, binding together with the well-beaten yolks of three eggs and the whites of two, and seasoning to taste with pepper, salt, and allspice. Take a small portion of the forcemeat, roll it into a ball with a little flour, and poach it in boiling water to try the consistency. Divide the mixture into small equal portions, and shape them into balls with floured hands. Butter the bottom of a stewpan, put in the puddings, cover them with boiling water, add a lump of salt, and poach them. When done, drain the puddings, and leave them till cold ; then dip them in frying-batter, coat them thickly with grated breadcrumbs, and fry in boiling fat. When nicely browned, drain the puddings quite free of fat, put them on a hot dish, pour some brown Italian sauce over, and serve. The puddings can be broiled if preferred; in that case, dip them in beaten yolk of egg instead of the batter, breadcrumb them, brush them over with warmed butter, and bread- crumb again. Arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Finely chop the remains of one or two cold roasted Partridges, first picking out some of the best pieces of meat and chopping it rather coarsely. Put the finest- chopped meat in a mortar with an equal quantity of chopped lean veal, the same each of butter and soaked breadcrumbs, and pound the whole to a smooth paste; then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Return the mixture to the mortar, season it to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity of spices, moisten with a small quantity of clear game broth, one whole egg and one yolk, and mix all till perfectly smooth. Butter some small dariole-moulds, and fill them with the mixture. Make a hollow in the centre of each, which fill with the coarsely-chopped meat, and cover with the forcemeat. Stand the moulds in a flat stewpan with boiling water to three parts their height, and steam them for three-quarters- of-an-hour or a little less. When cooked, turn the boudins see under their special heads. Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to,