991 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, 6cc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, put it in a quick oven, and bake. When cooked and nicely browned, put the pie on a hot dish, and serve. (10) Small.—Cut some Mutton into slices (without any bone), sprinkle over with salt and pepper, put them in a saucepan, and stew over a moderate fire with some fat also cut into slices. When they are quite tender, remove the pan from the fire, put it in a very slow oven, and let the slices of meat remain in it until they are quite cold. Skim off all the fat, add a little gravy made from the bones, and 1 wineglassful of port wine. A few small onions and a little minced shallot may be added if desired. Have ready some patty-pans lined with puff paste, put the meat, &c., in, and bake in a moderate oven until done. They may be served either hot or cold as desired. (11) Remove the skin and discoloured parts from Jib. of beef-suet; chop) it finely, put it into a basin, pour J teacupful of boiling milk over, and stir well. Mix Jib. of flour and 1 saltspoonful of salt in with the suet and milk. Dredge flour over a paste-board, put the dough on it, and knead well, then roll it out to about Jin. in thick- ness. Butter three large patty-pans and line them with the dough. Fill each with chopped and well-seasoned Mutton, brush the edges of the dough with a paste-brush dipped in milk, and cover each pie with a round of the dough. Press them together at the edges, make a small hole in the centre of each, brush them over with millc, put them into a moderate oven, and bake for three-quarters- of-an-liour. When cooked, take the pies out of their tins, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve either hot or cold. Mutton Pilau.—(1) Cut Jib. of boiled Mutton into small pieces and fry them in butter. Boil 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rice; when the meat is well coloured add part of the rice, also a few cloves, cardamoms, and a little cinnamon, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour or so. Arrange a little of the boiled rice on a dish, pour over the mince, prinkle with more rice, and serve. (2) Cut a leg of Mutton into small slices, put them into a saucepan containing sufficient boiling water to cover, and simmer slowly until the meat is done. In the mean- time put 1 breakfast-cupful of washed rice into a saucepan and cover it with gravy well-seasoned with onions, green ginger, and salt, and boil until soft. Then put the pieces of meat in the centre of a dish, pour over the rice mixture, Fig. 1231. Mutton Pilau. garnish the dish with fried onions, pieces of fried bacon, and slices of hard-boiled eggs (see Fig. 1231). Cold cooked meat can lie served as above, or the raw slices may lie first set in a frying-pan before boiling. (3) Cut out a square piece of Mutton with the saddle part attached to it; cut oil' the fillet to the bones, remove all the fat and sinews, and divide it transversely into thin slices; sprinkle with chopped mint, spices, anil salt and pepper to taste. Put the bones and trimmings into a saucepan with a little water, and boil over a moderate fire for about two hours. Wash and drain lib. of rice, turn it into a sieve, and let it diy for about an hour. Put a chopped onion into a saucepan with a little butter and fry lightly; mix in the rice, fry for a few minutes longer, pour in broth (not skimmed) to three times its height, cover the pan, and boil ; when all the moisture has evaporated, put the pan at the side of the fire to keep hot. In the meantime, put the slices of Mutton on a skewer alter- nately with slices of ham or bacon, roll them in slices of fat bacon, and broil over a clear fire for eight minutes. Mutton—continued. Put the pilau on a dish with the skewers sticking in it, and serve very hot. Mutton Pilau a la Sultane.—Wash lib. of rice, put it in a cloth, and tie up, leaving room for the rice to swell. Cut Jib. of the best part of Mutton into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and place over the fire till boiling. Then skim the liquor, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the con- tents simmering for half-an-hour. Strain the liquor off the meat into a basin, put 4oz. of butter in with the meat, and fry it till nicely browned. Return the liquor to the saucepan, with 2 table-spoonfuls of skinned pistachios and 1 table-spoonful of washed currants, and dust in a small quantity of mixed spices. Mince 2oz. of Mutton and fry it in butter till browned, then put it in with the other in- gredients. When the liquid boils, put in the rice, move to the side of the fire, and simmer until soft. When cooked, arrange the pilau tastefully on a hot dish, and serve imme- diately. Mutton Pudding.—(1) Take some chops from a neck or loin of Mutton, trim the fat from them, season with chopped onion, pepper, and salt, lay one half of them at the bottom of a baking-dish, and pour over a batter made of potatoes boiled till floury, rubbed through a colander, and mixed with beaten egg-and-milk. Then put in the rest of the chops, fill up the dish with the potato flatter, and bake. (2) Make a common suet crust, roll it out, line a basin with some of it, then lay in some slices of an underdone leg of Mutton, season with pepper, salt, and finely-chopped onion, pour in a little gravy, lay a cover of the suet crust over it, pinch the edges together, tie a floured cloth over, and boil. (3) Remove all the fat from about 21b. of scrag of Mutton and put it into a saucepan meat downwards with lqt. of water, two onions, salt and pepper to taste, and boil gently for two hours. Take out the meat, remove all the bones, and let the broth cool so as to take off' the fat. In the meantime make a crust with the fat or mutton- or beef-suet, using 2oz. to every Jib. of flour. Line a buttered pudding- basin with this, place two cooked potatoes cut in slices at the bottom, and sprinkle with salt and pepper; next put in a layer of the onions, then the meat, with a sheep’s kidney cut in slices. Sprinkle with a little more salt and pepper, and cover with two potatoes cut in slices. Four in a little of the mutton broth, cover the top with a round of the paste, tie a cloth over, put it in a saucepan of water, and boil over a moderate fire for two hours. Put all the bones into the pan with the broth, add one onion cut in slices, and boil until the pudding is cooked. Turn it out on a dish when done, and serve with the broth in a sauce- boat. If a richer crust is required equal quantities of suet and flour may be used. The paste should be rolled out to Jin. in thickness. Mutton Puffs.—Pound some cooked potatoes to a smooth paste in a mortar, work in an equal weight of flour, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and add sufficient eggs to make into a paste. Put the mixture on to a board, roll it out thin, and cut it into 4in. squares. Put some slices of cold cooked Mutton and bacon on each, add a little more salt, fold the paste over cornerwise, pressing the edges together, and put them into a frying-pan with a little fat and fry, turning over so as to cook both sides. Place them on a dish when done, and serve very hot. See Fig. 1232. Mutton Ragofit.—(1) Put 3 table-spoonfuls each of flour and butter into a saucepan over a clear fire, and when hot