97 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Partridges—continued. 1 teacupful of stock. Boil the sauce for ten minutes, and season it with small quantities of salt and pepper and 4 teaspoonful of sugar. Place the pieces of toast on a hot dish, put the birds on them, pour the sauce round, and serve. Braised Partridges with Truffles.—Prepare and truss three Partridges as for boiling, put them in a stewpan with some mirepoix, and ccok them; when done, drain, and arrange them on a hot dish to form a hollow triangle. Put round some sliced truffles that have been mixed in supreme sauce, fill a sauceboat with supreme sauce, and serve. Broiled Partridges.—(1) Put Jib. of butter and 4 table- spoonful of minced parsley into a stewpan: when it has melted put in the Partridges and turn them about over the fire until lightly browned. Take the birds out, roll them in finely-grated breadcrumbs that have been seasoned with minced parsley, salt, and pepper, lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Prepare the following sauce: Put 2oz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 teaspoonful of flour, mix them over the fire, and stir in gradually 1 pint of milk; continue stirring until boiling and thickened, then move the stewpan to the side of the fire. Stir quickly into the sauce the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with a small quantity of water, and season to taste with salt' and pepper. Put a can of French peas into a saucepan of boiling water, and leave them until they are hot; then turn them into the centre of a hot dish, arrange the Partridges on the top, pour the sauce round, and serve. (2) The bird must not be high; split it lengthwise down the back, lay it open, and beat it as flat as possible with a cutlet-bat. Brush it over on all sides with a paste- brush dipped in olive oil, season it with salt and pepper, lay it on a double gridiron, and broil it in front of a clear fire, turning when done on one side. Lay the bird on a hot dish, put a large piece of maitre d’hotel butter on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Clean and truss two Partridges as for roasting, cut them in halves, wipe them well, sprinkle plentifully with pepper and salt, and broil them over a clear lire for twenty minutes. When done, place the pieces of Partridge on a hot dish, put a small lump of butter on each half, and serve while very hot, with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy. Broiled Partridges a l’Americaine.—Singe, draw, and wipe neatly three tender Partridges; cut them in halves, lay them on a dish, and season with 1 pinch of salt, A pinch of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of oil. Boll them in well, and put them to hroil for seven minutes on each side. Prepare six slices of fried hominy, arrange them on a hot dish, place the Partridges over, and pour 1 gill of maitre d'hotel butter on top; place six slices of broiled bacon over the birds, and serve. Broiled Partridges a la Chasseur.—(1) Draw and split in halves three young and fresh Partridges, cut off the tip of the legs, split the skin of the drum-stick, and thrust the legs underneath ; slightly beat each half, sprinkle salt and pepper over them, dip them in oil and then in bread- crumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning to do both sides equally. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, pour round a little hot Madeira sauce, and serve. (2) Pluck, draw, and singe some fat young Partridges, split them in halves lengthwise, sprinkle pepper and salt over them, dip them in oil and breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire. Put a finely- chopped onion and shallot in a saucepan with 3 table- spoonfuls of streaky bacon cut in dice and two or three sprigs of sweet herbs, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes; then put in 1 teacupful of chopped mush- rooms, the chopped livers of the Partridges, and A- pint of gravy. Boil the sauce for ten minutes. Work 2oz. of butter with 2oz. of breadcrumbs, then put them in the sauce and stir over the fire till thick. Mix a little glaze with the sauce, then take it off the fire and add the strained juice of two lemons. Arrange the Partridges on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Partridges—continued. Broiled Partridges a la Crapaudine.—Empty, clean, and truss the birds with their thighs inside their bodies; singe them to make the flesh firm, pinch the breast with the left hand, and scallop it without quite reaching the skin. Turn the flesh over on the table, beat the bird flat, sprinkle salt and pepper over, dip it in clarified butter then in breadcrumbs, again in the butter, and finish with the crumbs. Broil them over a clear fire. When cooked, arrange the Partridges on a hot dish, and serve with an Italian sauce. Broiled Partridge Cutlets with Colbert Sauce.—Chop three tender Partridges each in halves lengthwise, sprinkle salt and pepper over them, dip them in warmed butter, then in breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear slow fire; turn them when done on one side and finish the other. When cooked, put the Partridges on a hot dish, pour over them some colbert sauce, and serve. Broiled Partridge Cutlets with Truffles.—Skin five young Partridges, cut off the outside fillets and the small inside ones, take the second skin off them, point the small bone of the wing, and stick it into the end of the large fillet; season with salt and pepper, egg-and-breadcrumb them, dip them in oiled butter and again in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a very sharp lire. Fry the small fillets lightly, make a forcemeat with them, and mix it Fig. 114. Broiled Partridge Cutlets with Truffles. with some glaze of game. Put the forcemeat in the centre of the dish and arrange the broiled fillets round it. Cover the fillets with game glaze. Garnish the dish with croutons of fried bread (see Fig. 114), and serve hot. Broiled Partridge's Legs.—Bone the legs of six uncooked Partridges, leaving only the pinion-bones, and cutting the claws at the joint. Put them in a deep frying-pan with a lump of butter, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides ; then put in with them a few chopped fresh mushrooms and 2 table spoonfuls of chopped onions. Stand the frying- pan at the side of the fire, and ccok the contents slowly till almost diy; then take it oil', and leave all till cold. Take the legs out, and mix with the mushrooms and onions half the quantity of rasped bacon and 1 table-spoonful of chopped truffles. Cover the legs with the above prepara- tion, wrap each one separately in a sheet of paper that has been dipped in oil, put them on a gridiron, and stand it over a very clear, slow fire. The legs should be thoroughly heated without blackening the paper. Arrange them on a hot dish when done, and serve. Celestines of Partridge. -This supreme dish is attributed to Dubois. Cut in small dice the meat of two cold cooked Partridges, and mix with it an equal quantity of cooked truffles, also cut in dice. Cut the meat off the legs, and finely chop it with a few cooked poultry livers; pound it in a mortar, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a small saucepan, and mix with it an equal quantity of tepid game chaudfroid sauce. Stand the stewpan on ice and stir the contents till thick, then put the chopped meat and truffles in with it, take it oil the ice, flatten the preparation, and cut it into twelve oval slices to the shape of a large sandwich. Trim and coat the slices with a thick layer of the above preparation, then stand them on ice till the coating is quite firm. Dip the celestines one by one in the chaudfroid sauce so as to cover them completely with it (it should not be too thick, and quite smooth). Cut For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, £c., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II. B