THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 961 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. the pan on the fire and cook the contents, stirring con- tinually to prevent it getting lumpy; add the yolks of two eggs to thicken, and mix in toz. of butter. When thoroughly mixed and of the required consistence, put it in a dish, and serve hot. Mushrooms in Cases.—Peel and chop about two dozen large Mushrooms, mix with them 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a small quantity of finely-chopped shallot (the latter ingredient may be omitted if not desired), and season to taste with salt and pepper. Butter the interior of ten or twelve small paper cases, till them with the Mushroom mixture, and bake in a brisk oven. When cooked, stand the cases on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a few sprigs of parsley, and serve very hot. Mushroom Cream Soup.—Carefully wash and peel lqt. of fresh Mushrooms, put them into lqt. of boiling water, and boil until tender enough to nib through a sieve; stir them into 2qts. of cream soup made as follows: Put into a large saucepan 2 table-spoonfuls each of butter and Hour, and mix together until they begin to bubble; then gradu- ally stir in lqt. each of hot milk and boiling water, a teacupful at a time, and mixing the one quantity in smoothly before adding more. When all the milk and water have been used, season the soup to taste with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, stir into it the puree or pulp of Mushrooms, let it boil once, and then serve. Mushrooms with Eggs.^(l) Break four eggs into a sauce- pan, and add 2 iz. of warmed butter, 1 table-spoonful of chopped Mushrooms, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and b salt- spoonful of pepper. Put the pan over a clear fire and stir continually until quite thick. Have ready some pieces of hot buttered toast, put them on a dish, pour over the mixture, and serve very hot. (2) Peel lib. of Mushrooms, and put them into a sauce- pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of Mushroom ketchup, 3oz. of butter, one onion chopped small, a little grated nutmeg, 1 table spoonful of vinegar, and salt and pepper to taste. • Put the pan over the fire, cover it, stew the contents gently 1 for twenty minutes, and add the yolks of two eggs to thicken, taking care not to let the mixture boil after they are added or it will curdle and spoil. Put a border of mashed potatoes round a dish, pour some of the sauce in the centre, pile the Mushrooms up in a heap, and decorate them with two hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. Pour over the re- mainder of the sauce, and serve. Mushroom Garnishing.—Mince finely twelve Mushrooms 1 and place them in a saucepan with b pint of Madeira sauce. Cook for five minutes, and it is ready for use. Mushroom Ketchup.—(1) Break up the required quantity of Mushrooms, put them in a tub, strew salt (allowing |lb. for every 71b. of Mushrooms) over them, and leave for two or three days. Afterwards press the Mushrooms to extract all their juice, which strain into a large saucepan; for every pint put in loz. of salt, h teaspoonful of pepper- corns, six cloves, and ;\oz. of ginger. When boiling, move the ketchup to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently for an-hour-and-a-half. When ready, strain through a fine sieve, leave it until cold, then pour it into bottles; cork tightly, and stow them away in a dry store-cupboard. (2) Procure freshly-gathered Mushrooms, pick them over carefully to see that they are clean, but do not wash them, and put them in layers in a deep pan with plenty of salt between each layer. Stand the pan in a warm place or over a rather cool stove, and keep it covered. Leave the Mushrooms for three or four days, pressing and mashing them well every day with a wooden spoon. When quite soft and well mashed, place the Mushrooms and juice into a large stone or earthenware jar, and put in for each 2qts., loz. each of allspice and whole pepper. Cover the jar closely, put it into a saucepan with boiling water to reach almost up to the top of the jar, and boil for two-hours-and-a-half, adding more boiling water as the quantity becomes dimin- ished. At the end of that time, take the jar out of the water, and strain the juice through a fine hair sieve, being very careful not to disturb the sediment. Pour the ketchup Mushrooms—continued. into a clean stewpan, and boil it slowly for an hour, removing all the scum as it rises. Next pour it into a jug, cover, stand it in a cool place, and leave for twenty - four hours. Strain the ketchup through flannel, return it to the jug, and for every quart mix in b table-spoonful of brandy. Let the ketchup stand to see if any more sedi- ment settles, then strain it again, pour it into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked. (3) The Mushrooms are always best when gathered first thing in the morning before the sun is on them; pick over carefully to see that they are clean, as they must not be washed, break them into pieces, and lay them on a dish; strew over plenty of salt and leave for three or four days in a warm temperature, turning often, and occasionally adding a small quantity of salt. At the end of that time, turn the Mushrooms on to a fine silk sieve with a basin underneath, and leave them until all the juice has inn through. Pour this juice into a stewpan with plenty of spices, and place it over a slow fire. Beat the whites of tivo eggs, and when the juice boils stir them in. Boil it for a minute, then strain it through muslin into a basin. When quite cold, pour the ketchup into small bottles, cork tightly, and keep them for use in a dry store-cupboard. (4) Break the Mushrooms into small pieces, put them in a large earthenware jar, strew over plenty of salt, and leave for a week or ten days, stirring well every day; after- wards leave them without stirring until a thick scum rises to the top, when strain oft' the liquor into a sauce- pan. Tie up in a muslin bag a moderate quantity of ginger, mace, cloves, peppercorns, and mustard-seed, put it in the liquor, and boil until well flavoured with the spices. When cold, put the ketchup into a bottle with the muslin bag containing the splices, cork it, and leave for tvro months. At the end of that time, boil it up again with the spices, then strain through muslin, and bottle it for use. (5) Take some large full-grown Mushrooms. Put a layer of them at the bottom of a deep earthenware pan, sprinkle with salt, then add another layer of Mushrooms and a sprinkling of salt, and so on till all the Mush- rooms are in the pan. Let them stand for three hours, by which time the salt ought to have made the Mushrooms easy to break, then pound them in a mortar or mash them well with the hands, and leave for two days (not longer), mashing and stirring well each day; pour them into a large stone jar, measure by lifting them out of the jar, with a pint or quart measure, and to each quart add ^oz. of allspice and l^oz. of whole black pepipier; cover the jar very closely, set it in a pan of boiling water, and keep) the water boiling for over two hours. Then let the juice drain through a hair sieve into a clean stewpan, without squeezing or pressing the Mushrooms, and boil very slowly, skimming well, till reduced to one half; then pour it into a clean dry jug, cover closely, and let it stand all night in a cool pflace. Next day pour it oil' as gently as possible so as not to disturb the sediment, strain it through a thick flannel bag till perfectly clear, and add for every pint 1 table-spoonful of good brandy; put it again into a clean dry jug and leave all night closely covered. Next day a sediment will again have settled, and the ketchup must then be very gently poured off so as not to disturb it. Bottle in pint or half-pint bottles which have been rinsed with brandy or other spirit, being very careful to cork well and seal them air-tight. If badly corked or kept in a damp place the ketchup will soon spioil, but if properly kepit it improves. It should be examined from time to time, pflacing a strong light behind the neck of the bottle ; if there is any appearance of film forming in it boil it again with some more whole black pepipier. Mushroom Omelet.—(1) Either fresh or canned Mushrooms may lie used for this. Heat 1 table-spoonful of chopped canned Mushrooms in enough white sauce to moisten them; or clean three fresh Mushrooms of medium size and fry them in jrst enough butter to prevent burning, seasoning with salt and pepper to taste. While the Mush- rooms are being heated beat three whole eggs for half a minute together with 1 teaspoonful of salt and very little 4 A