THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 95 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. out of tlie moulds on to a hot dish, pour some game gravy round them, and serve. The gravy may he made of the trimmings of the birds. (4) Prepare some Partridge forcemeat, mixing with it some half-glaze and essence of Partridge. Fry an onion cut in small dice in butter, but do not brown it; then mix it with the forcemeat. Cut some strips of paper 4in. long and 2 Jin. wide, and butter them ; put a piece of forcemeat not quite so wide nor so long on each strip of paper, and with the handle of a spoon work part of the forcemeat to the centre of each boudin, so as to form a hollow fin. deep and fin. wide. Put some salpiijon (made with truffles, cooked fillets of Partridges and tongue, mixed with Spanish sauce that has been stiffly reduced with essence of Partridge) in the hollow, without quite filling it, then fill it with forcemeat. Put the houdins in a saute-pan with a little general stock and let them simmer gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour. When cooked, drain the boudins, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour some reduced Spanish sauce over, and serve. Braised Partridges.—Singe, draw, and truss three Partridges as for boiling, put them in a stewpan with a slice of chopped fat bacon and a bunch or faggot of sweet herbs and fry them till nicely coloured all over; then pour in a little wine, put the lid on the stewpan with a few hot ashes on it, and let them braise gently. When nearly done put in with the Partridges Jib. of ham cut in dice, and four large cloves of garlic that have been boiled in plenty of water; sprinkle a little Spanish red pepper over, and continue cooking for about fifteen minutes. When done, take the Partridges out, drain them, remove the strings, put them on a hot dish, and garnish round with the garlic and ham; take the sweet herbs out of the cooking-stock, skim the fat off, thicken it with a little brown sauce, pour it over the Partridges, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Cussy.—Chop some sweetbread, boiled cocks’ combs, truffles, and mushrooms together. Remove all the bones from the Partridges, with the exception of the thigh bones and legs, stuff them until the chopped sweetbread, &c., then sew them up, giving them their original shape, and hold them until their breasts in front of the fire till quite firm. Put a slice of ham in a braising- pan, and when warm put in some chopped bacon, onions, carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, the Partridge bones (which should have been pounded in a mortar), alittle salt and pepper, and some stock and white wine, mixed in equal quantities; cook the vegetables till soft, then put in the Partridges. Cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, put the lid on the braising-pan, with some hot coals on the top, stand it over a slow fire, and cook the birds. When done, put them on a hot dish. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, skim and boil it with a few slices of truffles till reduced, then pour it over the Partridges, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Financiere.—(1) Singe, draw, wipe, and truss two Partridges with their wings inside. Lay a piece of pork-rind in a saucepan, adding one carrot and one onion, both cut in slices, two bay-leaves, one sprig of thyme, and the two Partridges, seasoning with 1 pinch of salt and J pinch of pepper. When the birds have assumed a good golden colour on the hot stove, moisten with J pint of broth, put the saucepan in the oven, and cook for twenty minutes longer. Dress them on a dish, untruss, pour over J pint of hot financiere, sauce, and serve. The gravy from the Partridges can he utilised for making the financiere sauce. (2) Cook three Partridges as directed for Braised Partridges a la Perigueux. Fry a three-sided block of bread, fix it on a dish until a little paste made until flour and white of egg, put a bird on each side, and fill the spaces between them with some financiere ragoht. Lean some crayfish, with the claws sticking upwards, on each pile of the ragoftt, and put a larded and glazed sweetbread _ on the top of the bread. Fill a sauceboat with financiere sauce, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Givry.—Draw some young Par- tridges and truss them as for boiling, dip their breasts Partridges—continued. in boiling water, then refresh them in cold water; lard them with thin strips of bacon, and put them in a stewpan lined with far bacon. Pour in sufficient broth to reach to half the height of the birds, put the lid on the stewpan with some hot ashes on the top, and braise them for twenty minutes. Put some rings of onions in a little white game broth, and stew till tender. Cook some very black truffles (they can be braised with the birds), then cut them into rounds that will just fit in the rings of onions. Chop the trimmings of the truffles, mix them with some Italian sauce, and reduce it. When cooked, glaze the birds, drain them, and- glaze them again. Put them on a hot dish, place the rings of onions and the truffles three on each side of the breast, using a little melted glaze for the purpose of sticking them. Mix a small quantity of game glaze in the sauce, pour it round, not over the birds, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Perigueux.—Clean three Par- tridges, and truss them as for boiling. Fasten some thin slices of fat bacon round them, put them in a stewpan with f pint of mirepoix and \ pint of essence of truffles, put a sheet of buttered paper over them, stand the stewpan over a slow fire, and let the contents simmer till the Partridges are done. Cut a three-sided block of bread 3in. high, 2 Jin. at the base, and I Jin. at the top, fry it, then fix it in the middle of a dish with a paste prepared until a little flour and white of egg. Drain the Partridges when cooked, and place one on each side of the bread. Shape three large Partridge forcemeat quenelles like pears, and put one between each bird; mix some essence of Partridge with perigueux sauce, pour it over the birds, put a large truffle on the top of the bread, fill a sauce- boat with the same sauce, and serve it with the Partridges. Braised Partridges a la Piedmontese. -Clean and truss three Partridges, put some thin slices of lemon freed of peel on the breasts, and tie some thin layers of fat bacon round. Put in a flat stewpan a carrot, onion, and turnip, cut in slices, some little pieces of ham and bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, J pint of white wine, and the Partridges. When the liquid is boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and braise the birds, occasionally turning them. When cooked, take the Partridges out, cut the strings off, divide each into five pieces, and put them in a stew- pan, which stand in a bain-marie; skim the fat off the liquor in which they were cooked, and put the backs of the Partridges in with 1 pint of rich brown gravy and 1 tea- cupful of sherry. Boil the liquor up, pass it through a fine hair sieve, skim it again, and boil it till reduced to half its original quantity; then stir a little thick tomato sauce in. Pour the sauce over the pieces of Partridges, and keep it hot without boiling in the bain-marie. Boil some polenta in salt and water till thick, then stir in a lump of butter and some grated parmesan cheese. Butter a border mould, fill it with the polenta, and leave it till set. When ready to serve, turn the border on to a dish, put the legs of the Partridges in the centre, place the breasts and fillets on the top, pour the sauce over, and serve. Braised Partridges a la Fortugaise.—Singe, draw, and truss two Partridges with their legs inside, put them in a saucepan with two slices of ham cut in large pieces, three onions, one carrot, two or three cloves of garlic, a piece of celery, a sprig of thyme, one bay-leaf, and two or three peppercorns and cloves; pour a little oil in, and fry all over a brisk fire for eight or ten minutes; then pour in | pint of broth, and boil it quickly till reduced to glaze. Add £ pint of vinegar and sufficient broth to reach to three-parts the height of the birds, put a sheet of oiled paper on them, place the lid on the saucepan with some live embers on the top, stand it by the side of the fire, and let the Partridges finish cooking. Put 3 teacupfuls of rasped breadcrumb in a frying-pan with a little oil, and fry them till nicely browned and dried; then move the pan off the fire, and drain out all the oil. When cooked, take the Partridges out, pass their cooking-liquor through a fine hair sieve, and skim the fat off. Move the breadcrumbs on to the fire again, and mix with them gradually the strained sauce. When boiling, move the