THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 89 For details respecting Culinary Processes. Vtonsils, Sauces, .he., referred to, see under their special heads. Paper—continued. inches or less into the substance of the block. A piece of Paper is then cut out to the desired size and shape, and laid on the top of the block, the overlapping part being neatly folded down in even pleats (see No. 9). Over the folded paper a tin or wooden cap may be made to fit, passing down only so far over the Paper as to have a free Jin. all round (see No. 10). This free Jin can then easily be turned over the edge of the cap, and a very excel- lent case results (see No. 11). If the cap is not handy, then the edge can be folded by pressing with the back of a small knife (see No. 12), whilst the Paper is turned up with the finger and thumb. “ All the numbers refer to those on the Plate illustrating Home-made Paper Prills and Cases.” In order to make these pleats quite firm, it is advisable to press the folds sharply and firmly with the handle of a knife, or other hard, smooth substance. With these instructions no difficulty should be experienced by cooks in making cases for their own use. PAFILLOTE.—Fr. for a curl paper. The term is commonly applied to the papers used for wrapping cutlets and other dainties before cooking. PAPINS DIGESTER.—See Digesters. PARADISE, GRAINS OP.—See Pepper. PARAGUAY TEA.—The leaf of the Brazilian holly or mate {Ilex paraguariensis), sometimes used as a sub- stitute for Chinese tea. It is very extensively employed in the South American States. PARBOIL.—To partly boil. PARFAIT-AMOUR.—See Cordials & Liqueurs. PARKIN.—The name of a spiced cake that is manu- factured on the 5th of November in almost every cottage in the neighbourhood of Leeds. It is usual to send slices of Parkin as presents. (1) Warm lib. of butter and heat it until creamy with 41b. of moist sugar, then heat in 1 break fast-cupful of treacle and the beaten yolks of six eggs, mixing the whole smoothly together with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of fine oatmeal; also mix in 14 teaspoonfuls each of bicarbonate of soda and cream of tartar, loz. of caraway-seeds, and ‘2oz. of thinly-shred candied lemon-peel. Whisk the whites of the ■ Fig. 103. Parkin. six eggs to a stiff froth, and stir it in with the mixture at the last. Butter a shallow baking-dish, turn the Parkin into it, and bake it for about two hours in a moderate oven. Serve when cold. See Fig. 103. (2) Put 341b. of oatmeal into a basin and mix in lib. each of flour and butter, 41b. of moist sugar, loz. of baking- powder, and make the whole into a stiff dough by work- ing in syrup. Make the dough into rounds, put them on tins, keeping them about 3in. apart, and bake in a slow oven. Take them out when done, and use cold, or it may be made with 31b. of dough such as is used for making brandy snaps, and working in 6oz. of moist sugar, 5oz. of butter, 12oz. of oatmeal, foz. of bicarbonate of soda, ioz. of caraway-seeds, and the same of any seasoning. In baking care must be taken not to cook too fast, or tliey will spoil. (3) Rub lib. of butter into 31b. of line oatmeal until perfectly smooth ; then mix in lib. of brown sugar, 11 table-spoonfuls of ground ginger, and 31b. of treacfe, and Parkin—continued. beat the whole well with a wooden spoon. Butter a shallow tin dish, and drop the mixture on to it with a spoon, leaving a small space between each. Bake the Parkin in a slow oven, and as the pieces nearest the edges of the tin are cooked they should be removed, and the centre pieces brought forward. (4) Put lib. of treacle in a small saucepan and place it over the fire until warm; dissolve 1 teaspoonful of bi- carbonate of soda in 1 table-spoonful of warm water, then mix it and the treacle with lib. of sifted oatmeal and 4 table-spoonful of caraway-seeds, beating with a wooden spoon until well incorporated. Cover the basin, stand it in a warm place for two hours, at the end of which time turn the Parkin on to a buttered baking-dish, and bake it. When cooked, cut it into pieces of the desired size. It should be kept in a dry place. (5) Prepare a moderately stiff dough by rubbing lib. of butter into lib. of flour, and mixing in 2 teaspoonfuls of bicarbonate of soda, 31b. of fine oatmeal, 1 teacupful of beer, and sufficient syrup. When thoroughly mixed, turn the dough into an edged pan about 3in. in height, and bake in a slack oven until done. Turn it out, and serve as required. (6) Rub i-lb. of butter into 241b. of oatmeal until quite smooth, then mix in a small quantity of ginger or finely- shred candied peel, Jib. of moist sugar, and 21b. of treacle. When quite smooth, turn the mixture into buttered cake tins, and bake in a good oven. PARLIAMENT CAKES.—See Cakes. PARMESAN CHEESE.—This is already described under Cheese. It is very valuable to the artistic cook, entering into many receipts as a garnish or flavouring. The following may be regarded as special applications of Parmesan to culinary purposes: Aigrettes of Parmesan Cheese.—Put 4 pint of water into a saucepan with Jib- of butter, and place over the fire until boiling. Stir in gradually 4oz. of flour, and continue stirring it until cooked ; then mix in Jib. of grated Par- mesan Cheese, and season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. When the cheese has dissolved, move the saucepan to the edge of the fire. Beat four eggs well, and mix them in gradually. Put a good-sized lump of clarified fat or butter in a flat stewpan, place over the fire until blue smoke rises, then with a table-spoon drop in small quantities of the mixture and fry them until a pale golden brown. Take them out of the fat with a strainer, and lay them on a piece of kitchen paper near the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, p>ile the aigrettes on it, garnish with sprays of parsley, and serve them while very hot. Parmesan Cheese Omelet.—Break two eggs into a basin, and dust over with a very little pepper and cayenne. Put loz. of butter into a pan rubbed over with garlic. When it is boiling pour in the eggs and hold the pan over the fire to let the omelet set; then put 1 table-spoonful of grated Parmesan Cheese on one half of it, cover over with the other half, cook for a minute longer, and serve immediately. Parmesan Cheese Pyramids.—Rub 2oz. of butter in 2oz. of flour until quite smooth ; then mix in 2oz. of finely-grated Fig. 104. Parmesan Cheese Pyramids. Parmesan Cheese, season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and work the whole into a light paste with a little water. Roll the paste out very thin, cut it into