992 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. add 31b. of Mutton cut into small pieces. Stir Avell until of a rich brown colour, add Iqt. of water, and remove the pan to the side of the fire where the contents will simmer well. In the meantime, put 3 table spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan, make it bot, and add a few small onions (or a large one cut up in slices), a large turnip cut into small squares, and 1 teaspoonful of Hour. Stir well over the lire, and when of a golden colour a id it to the meat; simmer for an-hour-and-a-lialf longer, and serve very hot with a garnish of rice, mashed potatoes, boiled macaroni, &c. (2) Chop about 21b. of the neck or breast of Mutton into small pieces and put them into a saucepan with a little warmed butter and flour, a small quantity of sugar, suffi- cient water to nearly cover, a few sprigs of parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Place tbe pan over the lire and stir the contents vigorously until the liquor boils, then remove the pan to the side, and simmer the meat gently until done. Add three cooked turnips cut into small pieces, simmer for a few minutes longer, take out the parsley, and put the turnips in the centre of a dish with the pieces of meat round it. Remove all the fat from the liquor, pour it over, and serve. (3) Cut off as many Mutton cutlets as are required, trim off all the fat, and dust over with flour. Put the fat into a stewpan, melt it, add a bunch of sweet herbs and twro finely-minced shallots, brown them over a moderate fire, strain off the liquor, thicken it with flour, pour in 1 wineglassful each of white wine and Worcestersliire sauce, put in the cutlets, and cook them until tender; then arrange them on a hot dish, pour over the gravy, garnish with the minced shallots, and serve. (4) Peel five or six onions, cut them into thin slices, put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter, and cook over a gentle lire until soft but not browned; dredge in about 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, stir it until cooked, then put in 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, l wineglassful of wine, and f pint of broth; season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Roil the liquor gently till reduced to a thick creamy sauce, then strain it through a line hair sieve. Remove all the skin and sinew's from some cold cooked Mutton, cut it into slices, then chop it into small squares; put them in a saucepan, pour over the sauce, and place them on the fire until hot, but without boiling. Turn the ragoftt on to a hot dish, garnish with poached eggs, and serve. (5) Trim away the skin and a little of the fat from the breast or shoulder pieces of Mutton, and cut it into middling-sized pieces without removing the bone. Put them with some good toppings into a saucepan over a brisk fire and fry for a few' minutes, turning frequently. Add a little sugar to soften tbe meat and assist it to colour, sprinkle with salt, and put in a few small onions. When the onions are a light brown, drain off all tbe fat, sprinkle over a handful of flour, cook for a couple of minutes longer, and pour in sufficient broth to cover. Stir well until the liquor boils, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and add a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley. Simmer gently for an hour, when the meat will be about three- parts done; put a coarse sieve over another saucepan, pour the meat, &c., into it, and with a fork remove the bones, putting the meat into the saucepan with the liquor and onions. Drop in a few uncooked potatoes cut into small rounds, boil up again, basting frequently with the liquor, remove the pan to the side of the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook until the potatoes and meat are done (which they should be at the same time). Put the meat in the centre of a dish, garnish with the potatoes, pour over the liquor and onions, and serve very hot. Mutton Rissoles.—(1) Mince some raw Mutton until quite fine, and season it with salt and pepper; then divide it into small equal-sized quantities and roll them into balls; put 2oz. of butter in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the balls, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain tbe balls, and put into the remainder of the butter three thinly-sliced onions and 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped parsley and fry them for a few minutes. Put the onions and parsley at the bottom of a stewpan, place in the balls, laying them side by side, pour in 3 table-spoonfuls of malt vinegar and Mutton—continued. sufficient clear broth to cover, and keep them boiling gently at the side of the lire for lralf-an-hour. When cooked, Fig. 1233. Mutton Rissoles. place the balls on a hot dish, pour their cooking-liquor round them, place a cover over, and serve. See Fig. 1233. (2) Cut some cold Mutton into small pieces and mix with them in moderate quantities some finely-minced parsley and onions and a small quantity of finely-minced garlic ; add half the quantity of fine breadcrumbs, season to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten with a little thick cream. Divide the mixture into small equal-sized portions, mould them round, brush over with beaten egg, and strew with grated breadcrumb. Place a large piece of butter in a stewpan over the fire, and when boiling put in the rissoles and fry them a golden brown. Serve on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or fancy dish-paper, and garnish with parsley. (3) Cut some cold Mutton into small dice, season to taste, and moisten well with nicely-seasoned gravy or stock. Take some very small round rolls, cut the tops off them, and scoop out the inside crumb. Fill the hollowed-out rolls with the Mutton, fit the tops on again, and tie thread round to keep them in their places. Dip them in an egg beaten up in a table-spoonful of cream, dredge with sifted breadcrumbs, and fry in butter. Serve hot garnished with fried parsley. (4) Remove the skin and gristle from about ,21b. of cold cooked Mutton, chop it up very fine, and mix it with about a quarter its weight of breadcrumbs. Have ready an onion boiled until quite tender, chop it up, mix it in with the meat, and add a few drops of essence of anchovy ; season with salt and pepper to taste, and work up with enough egg to make it into a stiff paste. Roll it into balls, brush over with egg, cover with breadcrumbs, and fry in a pan with a little butter until of a light brown colour. Remove the fat from the frying-pan and add a little gravy made of the trimmings and liquor in which the onion was cooked, boil it up, thicken with a little flour, stir in a little vinegar or sharp sauce, put the' rissoles on a dish, pour it round them, and serve. Mutton Sausage.—(1) Procure some well-cleaned intestines of sheep ; finely chop lib. or 2lb. of raw Mutton, mix with it 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice, and season with salt and pepper and a small quantity of powdered cinnamon if liked. Stir the ingredients in sufficient water to form a stiffish paste. Tie one end of the sheep’s intestine, then stuff it with the minced mixture, passing it in through a funnel. Tie securely round the top, and prick it all over with a needle. Plunge the sausage into a saucepan of boiling salted water. When three-parts cooked, take the sausage out, drain, twist it round and round like a coil, and leave it till cold, when it will remain in this shape. Cut the sausage into thin slices and dip them in beaten egg; put a lump of butter in a frying-pan, place in the slices of sausage, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain, arrange them on a hot dish over 'which has been placed a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve.