THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 188 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Ssc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fike—continued. to cover them. Boil the fish until tender, when the liquor should he reduced to half its original quantity; then put in the juice of an orange and a small lump of butter. Lay the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish with slices of oranges, and serve. Pickled. Pike.—Scale and empty a Pike, wash it thoroughly, bind its head up, put it in a fish-kettle, and cover with a fish stock made with red wine; add two or three bay- leaves, and boil it gently till cooked. Leave the Pike in the sauce till the following day. When ready to serve, drain the fish, put it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fresh parsley, and serve with oil and vinegar. Fike a la Chambord.—(1) Thoroughly clean a large Pike, lard it in a square on one side with bacon, and put it in a fisli-kettle, the larded side upwards. Cut four onions, one carrot, and one turnip into slices, and put them in a saucepan with four bay-leaves, six cloves, a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and Jib. each of butter and lean ham, and fry them over a slow fire for twenty minutes. Pour in with the vegetables 1 wine- glassful of vinegar, \ pint of Madeira, and 6qts of broth; boil them for one hour, then pass all through a sieve over the fish, and stew gently for one hour or more, according to the size of the fish. Care should be taken that the liquor does not come over the larded part, but it should be basted occasionally with it. Hot coals should be kept on the lid of the stewpan. When cooked, drain the fish and glaze it. Put 1 pint of the cooking liquor in a sauce- pan, with 2 wineglassfuls of Madeira wine, first skimming off all the fat. Boil it till reduced to half its original quantity, then mix with it 2qts. of brown sauce, and" stir over the fire till it coats the spoon. Put in the sauce one carp’s or mackerel’s roe, cut in large pieces but not broken at all, fifteen cocks’ combs, fifteen heads of white mushrooms, twelve large whiting forcemeat quenelles, 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and J table-spoonful of sugar. Put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce round it, arranging the quenelles, &c. tastefully, and serve while very hot. (2) This handsome dish is attributed to Jules Gouffe. Skin and clean a Pike, removing the intestines through the gills, and bind the head round with string. Wrap the fish in buttered paper, put it in a stewpan, and cover with mirepoix and French white wine, mixed in equal quantities. Boil the Pike, and when done, drain, stud it across with rows of square pieces of truffles and with a little Pike forcemeat. Stick a fillet of sole between each row; put the Pike in the oven to cook the fillets. Prepare a ragout of Pike forcemeat quenelles, truffles, and mush- rooms. Strain the cooking liquor of the fish, boil it till slightly reduced, then mix with it 2 pints of Spanish sauce, and reduce again. Prepare a rice socle on a dish, lay the Pike on it, put the ragofit over it, and pour round Fike—continued. some of the sauce. Garnish with large Pike forcemeat quenelles, carp roes, mushrooms, and crayfish, all previously cooked as for garnish. Stick some mushrooms, crayfish, and carp roes on four silver skewers, fix them in the fish (see Fig. 241), and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Pike a la Clemont.—Scale and clean a Pike, cut it into pieces, and put them in a deep tin with some chopped onions, parsley, lemon-juice, and olive oil, and let it soak for half-an-hour. Sprinkle breadcrumbs over the pieces of fish, stand the tin on a slow fire and boil it, basting frequently with the oil. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, garnish with stewed carp’s roe, and serve with a sauceboatful of maitre-d’hotel sauce. Pike a la Financiere.—Clean a Pike, skin it, wrap it in buttered paper, and boil in mirepoix and French wine, mixed in equal quantities. Make a ragofit of Pike force- meat quenelles, mushrooms, crayfish-tails, and truffles, mixed in financiere sauce, prepared as for fish. Put a rice socle on a hot dish, drain and glaze the Pike, and put it on the socle; pile the ragoftt round it, in such a way that it hides the socle. Garnish round with truffles, mushrooms, and crayfish. Garnish four silver skewers with crayfish, mushrooms, and fried smelts, stick them in the fish, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Pike a la Genevaise.—Scale and clean a Pike, boil it in highly-seasoned fish stock, and while cooking prepare the following sauce: Make a roux with flour and butter, mix with it some fish stock, chopped onions, mushrooms, and parsley, adding a small quantity of wine if liked. Stir it over the fire, then put in 1 dessert-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and the strained juice of half a lemon. Put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Or this may be served with Dutch sauce. Pike a la Genoise.—(1) Clean and scale a Pike, and put it in a baking-pan without splitting it open, but scored across where the portions are to be taken off. Put in with it a carrot, a piece of turnip, onion, and a stalk of celery, all cut in small pieces, a slice of fat salt pork, one bay-leaf, pepper, salt, and 1 pint of stock. Bake the fish for three-quarters-of-an-hour or more according to the size, and baste it frequently. Put the Pike, when cooked and nicely browned, on a hot dish. Skim the fat off the cooking liquor, and pour in with it another pint of stock, 1 table- spoonful of tomato ketchup, and 1 teacupful of wine. Boil the sauce till reduced, thicken it slightly with flour, then strain it over the fish, and serve. Fike with Aspic Jelly.—Thoroughly clean a Pike, stuff it with some rather stiff fish forcemeat, sew it up, wrap it in a cloth, and boil it in court bouillon and white wine. When cooked, leave the fish in its cooking-liquor till cold, then take it out, remove the cloth, put it, belly downwards, on the drainer of the fisli-kettle, and leave it for some tune to make sure of its being thoroughly drained. Trim the skin off the thickest part of its body, cut the flesh into slices, which put back again in shape, then glaze the fish with aspic jelly. Put the Pike on to an oval dish, propping it up on both sides with pieces of bread; surround it first with aspic jelly, then with halves of hard-boiled d^gs and small crofitons of aspic jelly, arranged alternately. Garnish four attelette skewers, each with one truffle and one quenelle, and one with a truffle and two crayfish, one of which should be smaller than the other, and placed next the truffle. Stick the crayfish skewer in the middle of the Pike’s back, and place the others two on each side. The dish containing the fish should be placed on an ornamented stand. Pike Cheese (Pain) with Crayfish.—Cut the fillets off a Pike, remove the skin and bones, and put the flesh in a mortar with half its quantity of butter, a part of which should be mixed with crayfish butter. Pound it and season with pepper and salt, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and work it for a few minutes in a basin. Stir in slowly the whipped white of one egg and double the quantity of whipped cream. Butter a mould, fill it with the forcemeat, and poach it in the bain-marie. When