THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 159 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. of the bird, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich game gravy. (3) Prepare a stuffing with the flesh and liver of a woodcock or partridge, the liver of the Pheasant, and the inside fat; chop them all together very finely, Jib. of truffles cut into small squares, season with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs, stir in the yolks of three eggs, and mix them thoroughly. Bone a fine cock Pheasant, stuff it with the above, and sew it up; then fix it in a cradle spit and roast it, hasting occasionally with chablis wine. A piece of toast should he put at the bottom of the pan to catch the gravy. When cooked, put the Pheasant on a hot dish, first having put the toast on, and serve with a sauceboatful of Italian sauce, in which has been mixed some chopped truffles. (4) Let the Pheasant hang till tender, then pluck, draw, and lard it carefully. Bone and draw two woodcocks, keeping the trails separate, and throwing away the gizzards. Chop the flesh of the woodcocks with some cooked beef marrow; mix with it some scraped bacon, pepper, salt, and chopped truffles, and sweet herbs. Stuff the Pheasant with the preparation; cut a thick slice of bread, rather broader than the Pheasant, and put it in the dripping-pan. Put the trails of the woodcocks in a mortar with some truffles, an anchovy, a little scraped bacon, and a piece of fresh butter, and pound them; lay this thickly on the slice of bread. Fix the Pheasant on the spit, over the bread, and roast it. When ready, put the Pheasant on a hot dish, and garnish with the bread cut into pieces. (5) Prepare some young hen Pheasants, and truss them for roasting. Prepare a forcemeat with their livers and Jib. of suet, finely chopped, and put into a mortar with lib. of breadcrumbs, seasoned with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, finely-chopped thyme and parsley, and pounded together. Bind the mixture with three eggs, 1 wineglass- ful each of brandy and cream, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Stuff the birds with the forcemeat, wrap them in sheets of buttered paper, put them on a spit, and roast them for three-quarters-of-an-hour in front of a clear fire. Put loz. of glaze in a saucepan with 2 wineglassfuls of port wine and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and boil for three or four minutes; then pour in 1 qt. of essence of game, and boil it for ten minutes longer. Skim the sauce, mix 2 table-spoonfuls of butter with it, and stir it over the fire till it has dissolved; then move it to the side. When cooked, remove the paper from the birds and put them on a hot dish, the heads to the centre, pour the sauce over them, and serve. (6) Singe and draw the bird and truss it, putting inside a small lump of butter and two shallots; lard the breast with thin strips of bacon, and tie a slice of fat bacon over them. Fix the bird in front of a clear moderate fire, and baste it constantly with butter. Ten minutes before taking the Pheasant away from the fire, remove the bacon from the breast. Remove all the discoloured leaves from a nice bunch of fr eshly-gathered water-cress, wash the remainder, and shake it as free as possible from water. Mix together some olive oil and tarragon vinegar, the former predominating, season with salt, and pour the mixture over the water-cress. When cooked, place the Pheasant on a hot dish, and strew over it some bread- crumbs that have been fried brown in butter; garnish it with the water cress, and serve it with a sauceboatful of rich brown gravy and a sauceboatful of bread sauce. (7) Put 2oz. of scraped bacon and h teacupful of oil into a stewpan with two or three cloves, a piece of mace, two bay-leaves and half a clove of garlic, scraped; stir the mixture over the fire till quite hot, then strain it into another stewpan, add ten large truffles cut into slices, and three or four finely-chopped ones, pour in 1 qt. of white sauce, and stir it over the fire till reduced to a thick creamy consistence. Mix the beaten yolks of two eggs with the mixture, then turn it on to a dish, and leave it till cool. Stuff the breasts of some young, perfectly fresh Pheasants with the above mixture, in such a way that the truffles can show as much as possible under the skin. All this should be done a week or more, according to the weather, before the birds are wanted for dressing. Wrap Pheasants—continued. the birds in oiled or buttered paper, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire. Put lqt. of clear aspic jelly into a saucepan and boil it for twenty minutes. Mix twelve sliced truffles with the reduced aspic, add 1 wineglassful of either madeira or hock, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and stew them for twenty minutes. In about three-quarters-of-an-hour remove the paper from the Pheasants and brown them lightly all over. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, arranging them, if there are four, in the shape of a cross, pour the prepared sauce over, and serve them. (8) Pluck and clean a couple of Pheasants, truss them for roasting, lard the breasts and thighs, put them into a deep saucepan, cover over with clear stock, add a season- ing of allspice, mace, long peppers, and white peppers, pour in 1 wineglassful of marsala, and stew gently until the Pheasants are tender, which will take about ten minutes or so. Take out the pieces, wipe them dry, dust them over with Hour, dip them into olive-oil or hot dripping, put them on a spit in front of a clear fire, and roast them to a good brown, basting frequently. Place them on a hot dish, pour round a chutney sauce, garnish with slices of lemon and small sprays of endive; strain the liquor in which the birds were cooked, reduce it, and add a little glaze, colouring, and flour (baked a deep colour); pour it over the birds, and serve hot. (9) Stuffed with Mushrooms.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Pheasant, lard it on each side of the breast with pieces of fat bacon, and stuff it with twelve large mushrooms, cut into halves or quarters, and mixed up with 2oz. of butter, salt, and cayenne to taste. Trass the bird, cover the breast with a piece of thickly-buttered paper, place it in front of a clear fire, and roast it for thirty minutes, basting frequently with its own liquor. Take off the paper, roast for ten minutes longer, place it on a dish and serve with bread sauce in a sauceboat, and gravy made as follows, poured over: Put loz. of butter into a saucepan with a finely chopped onion, fry the latter until quite brown; add the chopped liver of the Pheasant, 1 saltspoonful of salt, sugar and mustard to taste, 1 table-spoonful of ketchup, and 3 teacupfuls of stock ; boil for thirty minutes, and strain before using. A little flour may be added to thicken if required. Roasted Pheasants served a la Royale.—Carefully roast two young Pheasants, and whilst they are cooking, stew gently in some veal stock, several turned truffles, cocks’ combs, and button mushrooms. Prepare also ten small timbales of Pheasant or other game forcemeat. Prepare also a fried bread crofiton (see Fig. 208), and fasten this on a hot dish with white of egg. When the Pheasants are done, arrange them nicely, feet uppermost, against the narrow ends of the croft ton. Set the ten timbales, five on each side, at the base of the broad side of the croft ton, and then cover up the broad sides of it from the timbales right up to the