6 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. N ocken—continued. (6) Put 2oz. or 3 >z. of butter into a saucepan, warm it, and mix in an equal quantity of flour. Stir well until it becomes like a gold roux, then put the saucepan on the fire, pour in 3qts. of broth, and let it remain until it boils, stirring all the time. Remove the saucepan to the side of the fire, and keep the liquor hot. Put Jib. of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and gradually add the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two. Work until the mixture is light and frothy, add 6oz. of flour, the well- whipped whites of two eggs, and a little salt and grated nutmeg. Drop a small quantity into a saucepan of water to test its thickness, adding a little more flour if too thin and a little more butter if too thick. Take up the mixture with a teaspoon, push it out with the finger, and let it drop into a saucepan of boiling salted water. When all the Nocken are in, boil the water up once, remove it back again to the side, and let them remain in it until quite firm When done put them into a soup-tureen, skim off all the scum from the broth, thicken with a liaison of the yolks of four eggs moistened with cream, pour through a fine sieve into the tureen over the Nocken, and serve. NOGGIN.—A small measure equivalent to a gill. It is derived from the Irish noigin, or Gaelic noigean. NONPAREILS.—Fr. for the coloured sweets com- monly known in this country as “hundreds and thousands.” Mr. E. Skuse, the famous practical con- fectioner, thus describes the mode of their manufacture: First sift some powdered loaf sugar through a wire sieve (forty holes to the inch), again sift what comes through in a lawn sieve, which will take all the very fine sugar dust from it. Put, say, 41b. of granulated, left in the lawn sieve into the steam-pan, set the pan in motion, and turn on a little steam to heat them; allow the sugar to remain in the pan for a little until it is warmed right through, then put on a little thin syrup, not much, just to avet them, and while the pan is in motion put your hands in and rub them about so as to keep the particles from sticking together while Mret. When they get quite dry and free give them a little more syrup, and use your hands again to part them and rub them about. When they get dry again repeat the dose, still keeping your hands in motion. When the syrup has been added, should you happen to get them to stick together or double, it M’ould be almost impossible to part these little things, and when they M'ere being brought up large they would show very irregular in shape and out of all proportion in size; to prevent this, see that each coat is dried before another is added, do not let the syrup be too thick, nor put on too much at a time. Rub them well with the hands until they are the required size. If they are wanted various colours, when you have brought them up to the size you Mrant, take out, say, three parts of them and stand them aside. Melt some loaf sugar to a thin syrup, adding a small pinch of blue. Give those in the pan one or two wettings with this best syrup, and gradually turn the steam off the pan until it resolves quite cold, adding a small portion of this syrup at intervals. When the pan has ran cold for some little time do not put on any more syrup; when they are quite dry, stop the pan, take them out, they having been finished white, put in another portion of the Nonpareils, start the pan, turn on the steam, and when the goods are warm colour part of the syrup yellow M'ith saffron, and put on a few coatings at intervals; then turn the steam off and finish with another coat or so of this yellow syrup. When they are dry they will be a nice yellow. Take them out of the pan and put them with the vdiite ones already finished. Put in another lot of the unfinished Nonpareils and colour some syrup red, and proceed in exactly the same way till finished; then if you Mrant any more colours you must part the lot according to the number of colours you require, and finish them in the same way as the yellow. NONPAREIL BISCUITS.—See Biscuits. NONPAREIL BITTERS.—See Bitters. NONPAREIL PUDDING.—See Puddings. NONPAREIL SAUCE.—See Sauces. NOQUES. —See Nocken. NORFOLK CAKES.—See Cakes. NORFOLK DUMPLINGS.—See Dumplings. NORFOLK PUDDING —See Puddings. NORMANDY PIPPINS.—Apples that have been peeled, cored, and dried under pressure. (See Biffins.) They form a nice dessert dish when stewed as follows: Soak 111), of Normandy Pippins in water for twelve or fourteen hours, and put them into a stewpan with lqt. of water, add jib. of moist sugar, twelve cloves, and a little fresh lemon-peel. Set the pan at the side of the fire and Fig. 6. Stewed Normandy Pippins. simmer gently until the contents are quite tender. Leave them till cold, arrange in a glass dish (see Fig. 6), pour over as much of the syrup as is required, and serve. NORMANDY SAUCE.—See Sauces. NORTHUMBERLAND PUDDING.—See Pud- dings. NORWEGIAN NEST.—This is the name given to a culinary contrivance which consists of a box con- structed like a refrigerator, the only difference being that it keeps the heat in instead of out. It is padded inside with a non-conducting material, with a space in the centre for receiving the vessel in which the process of cooking is carried on. If the vessel is filled with water, and this by the aid of heat is kept at the boiling-point for a few minutes, and then placed in the box and shut in by the closure of the lid, the process of cooking goes on away from the fire no matter in what situation the box may he placed. On the score of economy this box recommends itself to every household. The Norwegian pot was introduced into the French Navy in 1869, and the results have been very satisfactory. NOTTINGHAM PUDDING.—See Puddings. NOUGAT—This is described as a cake, confection,' or sweetmeat made of almonds or other nuts. When freshly prepared it is so elastic that it can be moulded into baskets, cups, or any other shapes. The following receipts give a variety of favourite modes of preparing and using Nougat. See Marzipan. (1) Put 8oz. of caster sugar into a copper egg-whipping bowl and mix in the whites of three eggs, whipping con- tinually over a clear fire until the paste is of the consistency of thick batter. Add Jib. of almonds blanched and cut into small pieces, 2oz. of chopped candied orange-peel, 1 table- spoonful of vanilla sugar, and a few drops of prepared cochineal. Mix thoroughly, and spread it out upon two pieces of w'afer-paper to about lin. hi thickness; cover with two more pieces of paper, using a flat plate or board with a small weight on the top to keep them level. Put them in an oven of very moderate heat, and bake for a few minutes. Take them out, and when nearly dry cut them up into narrow oblong squares; they are then ready for use. (2) Put Jib. of caster sugar into a copper egg-bovd, and add the whites of two eggs and 1 table-spoonful of orange- flower M'ater. Set the pan over a slow fire, and whisk well until the mixture is of the consistency of stiff batter. Mix in Jib. of filberts, blanched and shred very finely, stir