186 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Pike—continued. cut off the head, tail, and fins. Lay the fish, the skin side upwards, in a deep baking-pan, with a little salt and 1 teacupful of water. Bake the fish for about ten minutes and baste it once with the water in the pan, then take out the pan and remove the skin from the fish. Drain the water out of the pan, roll the fish in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, put it in the pan with a lump of butter, and bake it for twenty minutes, or till well browned, basting continually with the butter. Put the fish when cooked on a hot dish, and serve with a border of green peas. Baked Pike.—(1) Scale and clean a Pike, cut it into slices, and place it in a baking-dish; put in some slices of onion, two bay-leaves, a piece of butter, some pepper and salt, and i pint of sour cream. Bake it for twenty-five minutes in a brisk oven, and baste it often with the cream. Strew some breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese over the fish, and brown them under a salamander. Put the slices of fish on a hot dish; pour some broth in the baking dish, add some lemon-juice, salt, and pepper, stir it for a minute or two on the fire, then pour it over the fish, and serve. (2) These fish can be baked whole thus: Scale and clean the Pike, stuff the belly with veal stuffing, sew up the slit with a needle and thread, and fasten the tail to the head, to form a circle. Put the fish in a baking-dish, with a little flour and water, and put a piece of butter on its back. Baste it occasionally, and when nearly cooked add \ table-spoonful of capers and their vinegar, also three or four olives, and finish cooking. Strain the gravy off the fish into a saucepan, and mix with it the required quantity of stock, a dust of pepper, salt, and flour. Put the Pike on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve. (3) Well wash and clean a Pike, taking care to remove all the film in the belly, put it into a bowl of salted water and vinegar, and let it soak for an hour. Prepare a stuffing udth |lb. of chopped beef-suet, breadcrumbs, lemon-peel, parsley, thyme, marjoram, salt and pepper, and eggs to moisten. Dry the Pike and stuff it, fasten it with skewers, put it into a deep dish with a little stock, a few sweet herbs and cloves, two or three bay-leaves, and a little lemon-rind, and bake for an hour, basting frequently. Take out the fish, put it on a hot dish, brush it over with egg, dust it over with breadcrumbs, return it to the oven for a few minutes, strain the liquor into another saucepan, add 1 wineglassful of sweet red wine, warm it up without boiling, pour it round the dish, and serve with mussels cooked in white sauce in a sauceboat. (4) Prepare a stuffing with 2oz. of finely-chopped beef- suet, 2oz. of sifted breadcrumbs, an anchovy, and some savoury herbs chopped very fine, half-a-dozen oysters chopped small, a seasoning of salt, pepper, and powdered mace, b pint of cream, and the beaten yolks of four eggs; put all together in a small saucepan over the fire and stir till it thickens, then turn it out on a plate. Scale the Pike and open it close to the throat, clean and dry it well, put the stuffing in, and sew it up. Lay it in a baking-tin, stick bits of butter over, put it in the oven, and bake. Serve with a sauce of butter, gravy, and anchovy. Boiled Pike.—(1) Scale, empty, and wash the fish. Chop twelve oysters, and mix with them the crumb of a French roll, a little finely-chopped lemon-peel, a piece of butter, the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and sweet herbs. When well mixed, stuff the fish with this forcemeat, and truss it with its tail in its mouth. Put the fish in a fish-kettle with boil- ing water, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and 1 table-spoon- ful of salt. Boil it from lialf-an-hour to one hour, accord- to the size of the fish. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish, garnish with pickled barberries, and serve with a sauceboatful of anchovy sauce. (2) Draw the fish, removing the gills and fins, wash them well in plenty of salted water, and next -wipe them dry on a clean cloth. Put them into a fish-kettle with a large lump of salt, the peel of a lemon, a large nutmeg grated, a slice of ginger, a blade of mace, a few cloves and peppercorns, a bunch of sweet herbs, three or four For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Fike—continued. onions, b pint of white wine, and sufficient boiling water to cover the fish. Let them simmer gently until tender. When cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish, putting the herbs and spices on the top. Mix f b breakfast-cupfuls of its cooking-liquor with 1 breakfast-cupful of butter sauce, and stir in two smoothly-pounded anchovies and a small quantity of powdered ginger. When boiling, pour the sauce over the fish, garnish with slices of lemon (see Fig. 239), and serve while very hot. (3) Potsdam.—Clean a Pike and cut it into pieces; put them in a stewpan with a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, cover with white wine, season with salt and pepper, and boil them ’slowly over a clear fire. When cooked, drain and skin the pieces of Pike, put the best in a stew- pan, and pass the cooking-stock through a sieve. Put two chopped onions in a stewpan with a piece of butter and fry them, then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and the cooking-stock of the fish; continue stirring the sauce over the fire till thick, then move it to the side, skim oft' the fat, and pour it over the fish. Let it simmer for fifteen minutes, then add \ teacupful of whole capers, the same quantity of gherkins, cut in small squares, 1 pinch each of grated horseradish and chopped parsley, and two peeled lemons cut in slices. Add a piece of butter to the sauce and 2 table-spoonfuls of anchovy essence. Put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Boiled Pike a la Dubois.—Get a gold-coated Pike, weigh- ing 61b. or 71b., scale and draw it, truss the head, and wash it well. Make incisions across the back, as deep as the spine-bone, stand the fish on its belly in the fish- kettle, cover with white wine and water mixed in equal quantities, put in a few minced vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, four or five peppercorns, and a little salt. When boiling, move the fish-kettle to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for one hour. Prepare a good sauce with 1 pint of fish-stock strained and cooled, thicken it with flour and butter kneaded together, add 2 table-spoonfuls of soy and 5 table-spoon- fuls of butter, broken into small pieces. Drain the fish, lay it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with nice little sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Boiled Pike with Caper Sauce.—A Pike will improve by being kept for two days. Clean it, cut off the fins, and bind its head round with string. Put the fish in a fish kettle, cover with court bouillon, and let it simmer for forty minutes; then leave it to soak in the couit bouillon as long as possible; twenty-four hours is not too long and will greatly improve it. Before warming the Pike again, take it and the liquor out, clean the kettle, then put it back again and warm it for twenty minutes. Place the fish on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish round with fresh parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of caper sauce. Boiled Pike served with Quenelles.—Clean and wrap a Pike in buttered paper, and boil it in mirepoix and white wine mixed in equal quantities. Prepare some quenelles with Pike forcemeat and crayfish butter, and poach them. When cooked, glaze the Pike, lay it on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper, place the quenelles round, and serve with a sauceboatful of financiere sauce for fish. < Sauces, dec., referred, to, see under their special heads.