997 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see tinder their special heads. Mutton—continued. the oven or before the fire and cook it until done, basting frequently. For a leg weighing 61b. about an hour will be quite sufficient to cook it. When done put it on a dish, remove the paper, and pour over h pint of gravy mixed with its stock, boiled, strained, and skimmed of its fat, and serve. (3) Take a leg of Mutton that has been hung until it is quite tender; lard it with fillets of anchovies, bacon, and garlic, and wrap it round in a sheet of greased paper. Put it to roast in front of the fire, and when done put it on a dish, remove the paper, and serve very hot with a garnish of cooked vegetables. (4) Carefully remove the thick skin from a leg of Mutton, trim off the piece of flank that adheres to the fat, and flatten the fat with a cutlet-bat. Chop off the knuckle, and nick the cramp-bone so as to allow the thick part to draw up and give the leg a plump appearance. Set the Mutton in a roasting-pan, and roast it until done, basting with its own liquor seasoned with salt. Serve hot with red-currant jelly separate. Roasted Leg of Mutton a la Portugaise.—Take a medium- sized leg of Mutton, cut off the shank-bone, trim well, and make an incision at the first joint. Season with 2 pinches of salt and h pinch of pepper; rub 4oz. of butter over it, and roast for one hour in a pan, basting occasion- ally with the gravy, and turning it once in a while. Remove from the oven, dress on a hot dish, and serve with three stuffed tomatoes and three timbales of cooked rice, straining the gravy over, or it may be garnished with red or white beans cooked in gravy. Roasted Leg of Mutton a la Russe. -Select a young and tender leg, beat it a little with a cutlet-bat in order to bruise it, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast, basting frequently. When nearly done, remove it from the fire, put it in a shallow pan, pour in 1 pint of brandy, put the pan over the fire, and when the brandy is quite hot set fire to it, turning the leg round until the brandy has burnt out. Pour in a little veal stock, simmer gently for a few minutes, put the leg on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, pour it over, and serve. Roasted Mutton a la Turke.—In Turkey this is called Shaslii-kebassi, which means “ roast of the street,” and is prepared as follows: Cut the meat of a leg or loin of Mutton into large squares, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and baste with onion-juice. Put the pieces of meat on long skewers, and broil them over a clear fire until done. Place them on a dish, remove the skewers, pour some cream (yaour) over them, and serve. Roasted Leg of Mutton like Game. -Trim off the skin and beat a leg of Mutton that has been well hung; rub it over well with pepper, salt, and powdered cloves or all- spice, lard the meat, dredge it with flour, and roast it in front of a clear fire, dredging occasionally with flour, and basting it with milk. When cooked and richly browned, put the meat on a hot dish, garnish it with cut lemons, i and serve with a sauceboatful of rich piquant sauce. Roasted Leg of Mutton with Oysters.—Rub a leg of Mutton all over with salt, and put it on the spit in front of a clear fire to roast, basting frequently. When about three-parts done, remove it from the fire, and with a sharp knife make cuts all over. Stuff an oyster into each hole or incision, put it back again, and finish roasting. Put the leg on a dish, add 1 wineglassful of red wine to the gravy, boil it up, pour it over the leg, and serve. Roasted Neck of Mutton.—Cut oft' the fat from 41b. of the middle or best end of a neck of Mutton, chop the bones short, and disjoint them. Put the Mutton before a clear fire, dust it over with flour, and baste frequently. When it is nearly done, put it closer to the fire, sprinkle it over with salt, and finish the cooking. When done, put it on a dish, pour the dripping from the pan, add a little boiling water to the sediment, stir it well, strain it, | pour it over the meat, and serve with a little red-currant jelly. Roasted Rolled Loin of Mutton.—Remove all the bones from a loin of Mutton weighing about 31b., take out the Mutton—continued. fillet, and mince it very fine. Add to the mince an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, one minced shallot, a little chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient egg to make it into a stiff paste. Put this on the Mutton, tie it over tightly with string, rub it well with Hour, sprinkle over some salt and pepper, and place it in a slow oven to roast. Put a few onions into a frying-pan with the Fig. 1236. Roasted Rolled Loin of Mutton. bones, fry them until they are brown, pour in a little stock, and thicken with flour. Put the meat, when done, on a dish, pour the gravy round, and serve with a garnish of glazed onions (see Fig. 1236). Roasted Stuffed Loin of Mutton.—Bone a loin of Mutton, trim off some of the fat, and then beat it with a rolling- pin to flatten it as much as possible. Mix together \oz. of sweet almonds, blanched, boiled for ten minutes, and pounded to a paste, ^lb. of Mutton-suet skinned and chopped fine, loz. of sifted breadcrumbs, 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 4 teaspoonful of mixed herbs powdered or chopped fine, a seasoning of pepper and salt, a very little cayenne, a little grated nutmeg and grated lemon-peel, the yolks of two eggs, and the white of one. When this stuffing is thoroughly mixed, spread it evenly over the inner side of the Mutton, roll it neatly, skewer it, tie it, and then roast it in front of a good fire, keeping it well basted. Put the bones in a pan over the fire with half a head of celery, half a carrot, an onion, a shallot, and a very small piece of garlic; pour over them about 1 pint of water, and let them stew for three hours. Strain the liquor and add to it a little salt, 1 teaspoonful of soy, 1 dessert-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and 1 table- spoonful of flour blended smooth with a little of the liquor before mixing it with the whole quantity. Stir it till it boils, and boil for ten minutes, stirring occasionally, then mix in 1 glass of port wine. When the Mutton is dished, pour the gravy over it, and serve very hot. Roasted. Saddle of Mutton.—(1) Take out the kidneys from a saddle of Mutton, remove the skin covering the fat, and tie it round with string. Put it into a baking-dish, mask it with vegetables and a little fat, pour over a little warmed water, and put it into a hot oven to roast. Baste frequently, and in about forty-five minutes’ time (when it should lie done) sprinkle with salt and pepper, put it on a dish, garnish with small balls of potatoes fried in butter, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. (2) Remove all the skin from a saddle of Mutton, cover it with a piece of well-buttered paper, and put it in front of a clear fire to roast. When nearly done, remove the paper, sprinkle with flour and salt, and pour over it a little warmed butter. When done, put it on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, pour it over, and serve. Red- currant jelly should be served separately. (3) Pare and trim a fine saddle of Mutton weighing about 61b.; lift off the upper skin, make one slight incision in the middle, also three on each side; tie it firmly together with three strings so that it retains its shape, season with a good pinch of salt, and it will then be ready to roast. Place the saddle in a roasting-pan, add 1 gill of cold water, put it in a moderate oven, and let it cook for about an hour, basting it fre- quently with its own gravy, and serve on a very hot dish. Skim off all the fat, strain the gravy into a sauce-bowl, and serve separately. Should the saddle be of heavier weight, say 12lb. to 14lb., about two hours will be ne- cessary to cook it. Red-currant jelly should be served separately.