54 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Cheek or Head—continued. Ox-Cheek Cheese.—Put an Ox-cheek in a basin of water and let it remain for twelve hours or so to soak; then put it into a saucepan with water to cover, set the pan on the fire, and boil the contents gently, skimming frequently. When the meat is tender and will easily leave the bones (it Mill take about four hours), turn it out on to a dish, remove all the bones, chop the meat very small, and sprinkle over a little salt and pepper and 1 table-spoonful of thyme. Put the meat into a cloth, tie it up securely and tightly, put it between two boards, with a heavy weight on the top, and let it get quite cold. Take it out, remove the cloth, and it is ready for use. Ox-Cheek Haricot.—Take an Ox-cheek that has been stewed, and cut off the meat in moderate-sized pieces. Put a few slices of onions into a frying-pan with a little butter or fat, and fry them to a light broM'n. Put a carrot or turnip—that has previously been boiled—into a saucepan with a little of the broth from the stew in which the cheek MTas cooked, and when they are warm add the pieces of meat, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, put the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Skim off any fat there may be on the broth, mix in suffi- cient flour to give the liquor a creamy appearance, simmer gently for five minutes longer, turn it all out on a dish, and serve very hot. Ox-Cheek Pie.—(1) Thoroughly wash the cheek and let it soak for an hour or two in cold water. Next put it into a saucepan with cold water, and boil gently until tender. When cooked, drain the cheek, cut out all the bones, and leave it until cold. Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of the liquor that the cheek was boiled in into a stewpan, boil it until reduced to one-third, and flavour it to taste with Worcestershire sauce, salt, and pepper. Skin and trim the meat into moderate-sized pieces, slice some cold boiled ham or bacon and two or three hard-boiled eggs, and fill a pie- dish with alternate layers of cheek, ba n, and egg, pour in the prepared gravy, and cover the whole with a good crust; trim it off evenly round the edges, and make a slight incision in the top. Bake the pie in a moderate oven until the crust is cooked. Serve cold. (2) Wash an Ox-cheek, put it into an earthemvare or stone jar with water to cover, place it in the oven when the fire is low, and leave it all night. Next morning cut the meat of the head up, mincing it almost as finely as for hash. Boil the palate until tender, then skin and cut it into small pieces. Butter and line a pie-dish with paste, put in the meat and palate with loz. each of washed morels and truffles, the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, eighteen or twenty poached forcemeat balls, a few fresh mushrooms, and two or three artichoke-bottoms cut into small pieces ; season to taste with salt and pepper, and moisten to half their height with some of the liquor that the cheek M’as baked in. Roll out a flat of puff paste about ljin. thick, cover the pie with it, trim it evenly round the edges, moisten them, and press them together. Roll out the trimmings of the paste, cut out some imitation leaves, damp them slightly underneath with a paste-brush dipped in a little Mrater, then arrange them tastefully on the top of the pie, and make a small hole in the centre to let the steam escape. Bake the pie in a good oven. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve M'hile hot. If asparagus-tops are hr season, a few of those pre- viously boiled and put in the pie would be an improve- ment. (3) Cut off the meat in slices from an Ox-cheek that has been stewed; put a layer of it at the bottom of a pie-dish, over this put a layer of parboiled onions cut in slices, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and continue hi this way until the meat is all used up. Pour in some of the liquor from the stew to fill up the dish, put over the dish a cover of paste, place it in a moderate oven, and bake. When done, take it out, and serve. Ox-Cheek Soup. (1) Cut off the muzzle from half an Ox- liead, put the head into a bowl of water, and let it soak for an hour. Take it out, chop it into halves, put it into the stockpot with sufficient M'ater to cover, and boil for a few minutes; take out the cheek, plunge it hito a bowl of cold Ox-Cheek or Head—continued. water, and then replace it hi the stockpot. Broth may be used instead of water if the soup is preferred rich. Put the pot on the fire, boil up the contents, skim frequently, remove it to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for an hour. Add an onion, a few sticks of green celery, a little chervil, two carrots, and a few sprigs of sweet herbs, and boil until the vegetables are done and the flesh easily leaves the bones. Take out the cheek, remove the bones, put the meat under a board with a weight on the top, and let it cool. Pass the broth through a fine sieve, skim off all the fat, and when it has settled pour off the clear liquor into a bowl. Put Jgall. of this broth into a saucepan, clarify it with Jib. of chopped lean beef mixed up with an egg and J pint of Madeira, strain it again into another sauce- pan, add the meat from the cheek cut up into as uniform- sized pieces as possible, warm the whole up M’ithout boiling, and a few minutes before turning it out add the white part of seven leeks that have been braised and cut into small pieces; pour the soup into a tureen, and serve very hot. (2) Put an Ox-cheek into a basin of warm Mrater, let it soak, take it out, and wipe dry on a cloth. Put it into a saucepan with water enough to cover, and add a few pepper- corns and a little salt. Cover the pan, set it on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils remove the pan to the side of the fire and let it simmer gently. Remove the scum as it rises, and when all is off replace the lid and cook gently for two hours. More water must be added now and then to make up for that which has evaporated, and it must be put in boiling. Turn all out on to a dish, take out the bones, and let it stand for twelve hours or so. Skim off the fat, put it into a basin, and mix with as much flour as it can hold. Put it into a saucepan with two turnips, four carrots, an onion, and three leeks all cut into pieces, place the pan on the fire, and cook to a light brou'n. Return the broth and meat to the saucepan, pour in a little more M’ater, set the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for from two to three hours, u’hen both meat and vegetables should be well co deed. Turn it out into a soup-tureen and serve very hot. Ox-Head Soup.—Put an Ox-head into a basin or bourl of M'ater and let it soak for three hours. Take it out, break all the bones, and M-ash it well in warm water. Put it into a saucepan •with 5qts. of M’ater, cover the pan, boil very slou’ly, and ski n frequently. When it has boiled for about two hours, add two carrots, two onions, one turnip, and a head of celery all cut into small pieces, twenty-five or thirty black peppercorns, two dozen allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the lid on the pan, remove the pan to the side of the lire, and simmer gently for three hours, skimming frequently. Take out the head, put it on a dish, strain the liquor into a basin, and let them both cool. Let them remain for a day, then cut oil all the meat from the bones, put it into a saucepan with the gravy, after the fat has been removed, set the pan at the side of the fire, simmer gently for thirty minutes, and it is ready for use. A wineglassful of white wine is a great improvement. Potted Ox-Head.—Procure half an Ox-head, chop it into small pieces, put it in a boM’l of water, and soak for two or three hours. When ready, drain the head, put it in a saucepan M’itli plenty of M'ater, and boil slowly for four or five hours, or until the meat can be easily picked off the bones. When cooked, take the head out of the liquor, cut the meat oil the bones, and chop it into small pieces. Skim the fat off the cooking-liquor, put in the meat with 1 table- spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same quantity of salt, a small quantity of black pepper, and a pinch of cayenne. Boil the above mixture for thirty minutes, then turn it into a basin or mould, and leave until next day, when it will be stiff. Turn the head out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. Stewed Ox-Cheek.—(1) Put a M'ell-u'ashed Ox-cheek into a boM’l of M’ater, and let it soak for twelve hours or so ; place it in a saucepan with 3J pints of water, and add one onion and a head of celery cut up into small pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, four cloves, and salt and pepper to