134 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. and line them with a light paste. Pour the mixture into the pans, put a small lump of butter on the top of each, and put them in a brisk oven. In about half-an-liour’s time the cake should be sufficiently baked; turn them out of the tins and arrange them on a dish that has been garnished with a folded napkin or a fancy-edged disli- paper. They may be served either hot or cold. Peach Cobbler.—Make a short-paste and line a buttered shallow baking-dish with it. Peel some Peaches, cut them into halves, put them an inch deep in the tin and sift a little caster sugar over them; cover with crust, just moistening the edges and pressing them together, and bake for kalf-an-hour. When cooked, take the pie out of the tin, put it on a dish, cut it into squares, and sprinkle caster sugar over. Serve either hot or cold. Peach Conserves.—Peel some Peaches and cut them in thick slices from the stones. Make a syrup, allowing fib. of sugar to each pound of fruit. Boil the Peaches in it, then drain, and put them on dishes till dry. As they dry roll them in granulated sugar, and pack in jars or boxes. Peach Cordial.—Take J peck of very juicy Peaches, peel and stone them, and crack about half the stones. Put the Peaches, the kernels, and the stones that are not cracked into a large jar, pour over them lgall. of double rectified whisky, and add I Alb. of rock sugar-candy. Cork it tight and let it stand three months. Filter through blotting paper, bottle it, and cork well. It is fit to use immediately. Peach Cream.—(1) Peel twelve ripe Peaches and take the stones out. Put the Peaches in a preserving-pan with ilb. of crushed loaf sugar and \ pint of cold water. Boil the fruit gently over a slow fire till it is dissolved, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the pulp 1 pint of whipped cream and loz. of dissolved gelatine, colour it with a few drops of cochineal, and mix it well. Wet a fancy-mould with cold water, pour the preparation in, and leave it till firm. "VVTien ready to serve turn it out on to a glass dish. (2) Open a tin of Peaches and strain the juice through a fine sieve into a basin; colour the rounded side of each Peach until cochineal and let them dry. Put loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of cream and stir it over the fire until dis- solved. When the cream is nearly cold, mix it until the juice of the Peaches and the strained juice of one lemon. Pour two-thirds of the cream into a glass dish and put it in a cold place; when set, arrange the Peaches on the top of it, pour the remainder of the cream carefully in between them, and leave until firm; then serve. (3) Put 1 heaped breakfast-cupful of tinned Peaches and then- juice into a lined saucepan, stew them over a slow fire until tender, then pass them through a fine wire sieve. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of condensed milk and 1 teacupful of cream with the fruit and beat well. Put a few rusks in a glass dish, pour the cream over them, and serve. (4) Put Joz. of isinglass and A pint of cream in a small saucepan and stir it over the fire till the isinglass is dis- solved. Take the cream off the fire, leave it till almost cold, then mix with it the strained juice of a tin of Peaches, and pour three-parts of it in a glass dish and leave till set. Brush the rounded sides of the Peaches over with a little prepared cochineal, and arrange them pink sides up on the cream when firm. Pour the rest of the cream carefully between the Peaches and leave till set. Peaches and Cream.—Peel lqt. of soft yellow Peaches, cut them in quarters, put them in a glass dish, sprinkle Jib. of caster sugar over, and leave them for two or three hours. Serve with cream poured over them, or separately. Peach Cream Ice.—(1) Peel six ripe Peaches and boil them in J pint of water until dissolved. Pass the pulp through a fine hair sieve, then mix with it 1 pint of syrup, 1 pint of thick cream, a few drops of essence of kernels, and colour it lightly with a little cochineal. Put the preparation in a freezing-pot (see Ices), and work it till frozen. Fill a plain mould with the Peach ice, put the lid on, and pack , Peaches—co ntinued. it in ice. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the cream out on to a dish. (2) Flavour lqt. of thick cream with some Peach extract, put it in the freezer, and work it till frozen. Peel and cut in halves lqt. of Peaches, mix 2 breakfast-cupfuls of caster sugar with them, pour the frozen cream over, and serve. (3) Put in a basin 41b. of powdered sugar and the yolks of six eggs, mix them well with a spatula for ten minutes, add 1 pint of boiling milk, stir for two minutes longer, and pour the whole into a copper basin. Place it on a hot stove and heat it thoroughly, stirring continually, but do not let it boil; remove, lay it on the table, mix in immediately 1 pint of sweet cream, and leave it to cool for thirty minutes. Take six ripe Peaches, wipe them, cut them into halves, remove the stones, and mash them into the cream, mixing thoroughly for three minutes; strain through a fine sieve into a freezer, pressing the Peaches through with a wooden spoon, and freeze. Serve on a cold dish with a folded napkin over. Peaches on Crohtons with Cream.—Peel some Peaches, cut them in halves, and remove the stones; put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water and plenty of loaf sugar, and stew them gently until tender. When cooked, mix with them 1 wineglassful of white wine. Cut some French rolls into slices about £in. thick. Put a large piece of butter in a frying-pan and, when boiling, put in the rounds of bread and fry them a bright golden brown. As the rounds are fried, take them out of the fat and put them to drain on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Rest half a Peach on each round of bread, the cut side uppermost? put a small piece of black-currant jelly in the hollow left by the stone (see Fig. 182), arrange the croutons tastefully in a dish, dust a little sugar over, strain their syrup round them, and serve with cream. Tinned Peaches may be used if more convenient than the fresh ones; in that case they should be turned with their syrup into a stewpan, and boiled for three or four minutes. Peach Custard.—Make a paste with lib. of sifted flour, two eggs, 2oz. of butter, and a very little salt. Butter the inside of a tin mould, line it with the paste, and bake. Boil the Peaches in syrup; take the paste out of the mould when done, and put the Peaches in. Boil the syrup till reduced, then pour it over the fruit, and serve. Peaches for Dessert.—Wipe the Peaches carefully and lightly over with a clean cloth; put a circle of them on a dish, then over those a narrower circle, and so on, finish- ing off with one at the top, and using Peach-leaves and moss to garnish and build them with. Put a circle of the moss and leaves round the dish at the base of the Peaches (see Fig. 183). Vine or artificial Peach-leaves may be used if the genuine ones cannot be obtained. Peach Flawn.—(1) Butter a shallow baking-dish and line it with a good pie-crust. Cover with quartered Peaches, then fill it with a custard and bake in a moderate oven. Cut into squares when done, and serve. (2) Put eight or ten not very ripe Peaches in boiling water to loosen their skins, then drain and peel them; cut them into halves, remove the stones, and put the half Peaches into a flat stewpan. Mix some kirschenwasser with syrup and pour it over the Peaches. Peel and take out the stones of five or six small Peaches, chop [hem, and put them in a stewpan with a little more than J tumblerful