46 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dtc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—con tinned. frequently. Take them out, put them on a sieve, set in the sun to dry for a couple of da s, wipe them, pack care- fully in a jar, sprinkling over ioz. each of mustard- and coriander-seeds, |oz. of chillies, and 2oz. eacli of bruised white ginger and white peppers. Pour over sufficient vinegar to cover, let them stand for three weeks, add more vinegar to make Tip for that absorbed, and in six weeks’ time the pickle will be ready for use, but if left for six months it will be considerably better. Before serving, they should be cut first in halves and the halves in quarters, and the two different coloured skins of the Oranges will give a very pretty effect. Oranges—continued. vessel over the fire, and stir every minute-and-a-half or so till the egg begins to harden; boil till the syrup looks clear under the froth of egg that will form on the surface, then pour the syrup on the Orange-peel and let it stand till the next day. Add the Orange-juice, again let it stand all night, next day strain it anil put it into a cask, adding loz. of dried yeast to every Sgalls. of wine. Take the bung out of the cask and keep it out until the fermenta- tion ceases, then close the cask by driving the bung tightly in. It is an improvement to add 1 wineglassful of brandy for each gallon of wine just before driving in the bung. Let the wine stand nine months and then bottle ; three months after it is bottled it is fit for use. A hissing noise continues as long as the wine is fermenting; when the noise ceases, fermentation has stopped, and the cask may be closed. (4) Boil 4galls. of water until reduced one-third, then leave it until cool. Peel five Seville Oranges, put them into a tub with 151b. of chopped Malaga raisins, pour over them 2|galls. of the reduced water, first making it warm, .and leave them for five days, stirring well two or three times each day. At the end of that time, strain the liquor through a line hair sieve, pressing the raisins and Oranges to extract as much of the juice as possible. Put the liquor into a cask with the thinly-pared rinds of five more Oranges. Squeeze and strain the juice out of the ten Oranges, put it into a stewpan with ill). of loaf sugar, and boil until the sugar has dissolved, then pour it into the cask and bung tightly. Leave the wine for two months, then bottle. (5) Put 5galls. of spring water into a large tub with 5lb. of Malaga raisins and 101b. of honey; mix well, and add 3oz. of cream of tartar, and set it to ferment. When nearly completed and in its last stages, add the juice and peels of 5lb. of Oranges, let it stand for a few days, pour off the clear liquor, and bottle. Refined sugar in equal weight may be used instead of the honey. The longer the wine is kept, the better it will be. Orangeade.—(1) Squeeze the juice from a do. en Oranges, pour some boiling water on the peel, and cover closely. Boil 1 pint of water and 111), of sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When all are cold, mix the juice, the infu- sion, and the syrup, with as much water as will make a rich drink. Strain through a jelly-bag. (2) Put the thinly-pared rinds of four Oranges into a jug, pour 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling water over them, stand a plate on the top, and let it infuse until cold. Make 1 pint of thin syrup with loaf sugar and water, keep it well skimmed while boiling, then strain and leave it until cold. Squeeze the juice out of eight large Oranges, strain it, and mix with the syrup and the liquor from the peels. Strain the whole through muslin, mix 1 wineglass- ful of brandy with it, ice it, and serve. (3) Put | pint of syrup at 32deg. (see Syrups) over the strained juice of a dozen Oranges. Prepare an infusion made of the thin peel of four Oranges and another gill of the syrup. Stir them both in together, add lqt. of water, put the jar containing it on the ice, and freeze. (4) Put the thin peel of six Oranges into a basin, and steep them in lqt. of syrup at 35<leg. Mix the juice of the Oranges with the juice of three lemons, and pass it through a jelly-bag. Pour the syrup into a sieve over a basin, stir in the filtered juice, and add igall. of water, and it is ready for use. Orangeade Powder.—Rub off the rinds of six Oranges with llh. of loaf sugar, pound it in a mortar, sift it, and dry in the hot closet. Mix in 2oz. of cream of tartar, and bottle. A teaspoonful to 1 tumblerful of water is sufficient. Orangeade with Wine.—Rub the zest (rind) off two Oranges with sugar, scrape it off with a knife into a basin, pour over 1 breakfast-cupful of hot syrup, and add it pint of white wine and the strained juice of four Oranges. Strain it through a very fine sieve or tammy cloth, let it get perfectly cold, and it is then ready for use. Pickled Oranges. -Wipe a dozen or so Oranges, having half Seville and half St. Michael’s if possible; rub them well with salt, put them into a bowl with sufficient salt to cover, and let them remain for five days, giving them a turn Preserved Green Orange-peel.—Scrape the insides out of the Oranges, put the peel in cold water, and let them remain in it for three days, changing the water each day. After this, put them in fresh water in a pan over the fire, let them simmer till the water is bitter, then take them out, and plunge them into fresh boiling water. Let this water cool with the Oranges in it, remaining till the next day. Place them in fresh water, and boil till the water is bitter; put them into fresh boiling water, and let them remain as before, repeating this every day, till the bitterness is extracted from the rinds. Then take them from the fire, and put them into a sieve to drain. Add sufficient loaf sugar to the last water they were boiled in to make a thick syrup; when this is cold, put the Orange-peel into it, and let them stand all night. Next day boil them in the syrup, and let them stand all night. Continue this till they are green and tender, then put them into jars, and cover with paper dipped in brandy. Preserved Oranges. -(1) Weigh some Seville Oranges and allow rather over their weight of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar; scrape them very lightly, and score them round and round, but without cutting through to the fruit. Steep them in cold water for three or four days, changing the water two or three times daily. Afterwards tie the Oranges loosely in a large cloth, plunge them into a sauce- pan of water, and boil. When the head of a pin will easily penetrate through the peel, drain the Oranges, put the sugar into a preserving-pan with 1| pints of cold water for every pound, boil it until dissolved, and then strain it through muslin. Put the Oranges in the preserving-pan, pour the syrup over them, and boil until reduced to a thin jelly and nicely tinged with yellow; if the syrup does not completely cover the Oranges, turn them occasionally so that every side gets cooked the same. Put the Oranges carefully into glass jars, and pour an equal quantity of the syrup in each jar. Leave them until cold, then put in each jar a round of white paper that has been dipped in brandy, cover with parchment, and tie down tightly. Keep them in a diy store-cupboard. (2) Squeeze out the juice from some bitter Oranges, cut the peel in halves, put them into a pan of salted water, and let them remain for three days or so. Take them out, drain, cut each piece again into halves, and with a sharp knife scrape out all the white part. Cut the quarters of peel into small pieces, put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil for a few minutes. Strain off the liquor, put the peel into weak syrup, and let it remain for two or three days, then put it into stronger syrup, and continue in this way until the peel is thoroughly soaked with the syrup. The last time the peel should be boiled with the syrup, and when done turned into jars until wanted. (3) Select some Seville Oranges of a uniform size, make a cut about lin. long in the sides, put them in a sauce- pan with a good supply of water, and boil. The water should be frequently changed to take oft' the bitterness, and care must be taken that the Oranges do not burst in cooking. When they are tender, place them on a sieve, let them drain for twelve hours or so, then put them into a saucepan with some weak syrup, and simmer gently for an hour. Take them out, drain, put them into another saucepan with some thicker syrup, and simmer until they are nearly transparent. Add a little brandy to the pan, put the Oranges with the syrup into jars, cover them over when cold, and they are ready for use.