THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 85 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. PAILS.—Two or three of these are very useful in a kitchen; those made of galvanised iron are better than those made of wood, being more easily cleaned and kept clean. PAIN.—Literally the French for bread, but used also to denominate a kind of cake, or cheese, of meat, fruit, vegetables, &c. PAKE.—A Grecian alcoholic liquor obtained from the fruit of Arbutus Uneclo. PALATES.—See Ox-Palates. PALESTINE SOUP.—This name is given in error to a soup made with Jerusalem artichokes, the term “ Jerusalem ” being a corruption of Girasole, and not in anywise connected with the famous city of Palestine. PALETTE-KNIVES—These are made in different sizes and for different purposes. To the confectioner r v Fig. 100. Palette-knife (Mathews and Son). they are of great use for mixing and working sugar. See Fig. 100. PALM OIL.—An oil obtained from the fruit of Fla'eis guineensis. In Western Africa, under the name of palm butter, it enters largely into the composition of savoury dishes. According to Simmonds, the natives scoop up the fluid oil from the cooking-pot in a gourd- shell, and drink it in large draughts in the form of soup, with snails or monkey-flesh. Every well-to-do man drinks from 51b. to 81b. of this butter for his breakfast, as it is con- sidered most wholesome and fattening. It is not used for cooking amongst civilised people. PALM WINES.—From all kinds of palms, without exception, some sort of alcoholic liquor can be prepared; and as these Palms extend throughout America, Africa, Asia, and many parts of Europe, the manufacture of drinks from them is of a very extensive and impor- tant character. The juice which flows from the sapped Palm is known, when fermented, as tode. After a second fermentation of the Palm sap a kind of leaven or yeast, known as ragi, is produced, which is used for making cakes and bread. Arrack is made by the distillation of Palm Wine. In Bombay punch is made from the cocoanut Palm, qualified with spices and. sugar,. after a Portuguese receipt. It is called Queimado, is drank hot, and is considered an excellent remedy for a cold. PANADA (TV. Panade; Gcr. Brodum ; Ital. Panata). -A Spanish word derived from the Latin—pcinis bread, the original Panada or Panado being simply bread boiled in water to a pulp. It is now used by all cooks to give consistency to forcemeats, and is generally flavoured, seasoned, or sweetened. It may be prepared as follows : (1) Soak in warm water the fine crumb of bread. When it is quite soft and moist, put it in a cloth and wring out the water, then put it into a saucepan with a lump of butter and a little salt, and beat it smooth and dry over a very slow fire, taking care that it does not brown. Put it aside to cool. Instead of butter, milk may be used, or a little white broth. (2) Breadcrumb Panada may be prepared with wheat- flour or rice-meal, the latter being preferable, as follows: Pour into a small stewpan 1 glassful of water and let it boil; immediately take it off the fire, and introduce into it the requisite quantity of meal to make a rather consistent batter. The Panada being thickened, dry it on the fire till it can disengage itself from the stewpan; then pour it into a kitchen-basin and let it cool, previous to employing it. Panada—continued. (3) To 2 table-spoonfuls of breadcrumbs add 2 table- spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of cold water. Put this on the stove and let it boil for five minutes; then add 2 wineglassfuls of wine, and serve directly. (4) Put one sardine and two boned anchovies into a mortar and pound them well with a little minced parsley and cayenne. Turn the mixture on to a plate, and with a knife or spatula work in 2oz. of butter. Form the paste into a roll or pat, and keep it on the ice until wanted. Serve on crisp dry toast. (5) Take a quart saucepan, pour in about § breakfast- cupful of water, and put it on the fire to boil; add loz. of butter, and when the liquor boils sift in 4oz. of flour and continue stirring until it becomes a smooth paste, when it is ready for use. PANCAKES (Fr. Crepes; Gcr. Pfannekuchen).—It may be said that what the omelet is to the French cook the Pancake is to the Englishman; the difference in pre- paration being very slight, unless, as in the case of the omelet, it happens to be complicated by various additions and modifications. The term is derived from the pan in which they are made, with the addition of the word cake, and they are loosely described as thin cakes of batter fried in a pan or on a griddle. As will be seen by the following receipts, considerable divergencies from the original have been invented and prescribed. Baked Pancakes.—(1) Mix 2oz. of flour with 2oz. of warmed butter, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, 4 pint of warmed milk, four eggs, and a small quantity of salt, and stir the mixture until quite smooth. Put about Joz. of butter into a frying-pan and melt it; then pour in a small quantity of the batter, letting it spread hi a thin layer over the bottom of the pan ; fry until browned on one side, then turn it over quickly and brown the other side. When all the batter is cooked, roll up the Pancakes and cut them into strips. Rub a piece of butter over a hot dish, lay the strips of Pancakes on it, dust over 1 saltspoonful of salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, baste with a few table-spoonfuls of hot gravy or broth, and put them in the oven for ten minutes. Serve while very hot in the dish hi which they were cooked. (2) Beat 2oz. of flour with two eggs until it is quite smooth. Put £ pint of milk in a saucepan with 2oz. of loaf sugar and 2oz. of butter, and place it over the fire until hot; then stir it gradually in with the beaten eggs and flour, mixing them quite smooth. Butter a few small saucers, pour the mixture into them, and bake in a brisk oven for twenty minutes. Make some raspberry or straw- berry jam hot, and when the Pancakes are cooked mask half of them with it, and cover them with the remainder. Put the Pancakes on a hot dish that has been garnished with a fancy dish-paper, sift caster sugar over, and serve. Currant Pancakes.—Stir in Jib. of washed and dried grocer’s currants to every pint of any plain pancake batter. Serve with butter, lemons, and sugar. New England Pancakes.—Stir slowly into 1 pint of cream 5 table-spoonfuls of dried, sifted flour. Beat up the yolks of seven new-laid eggs and the whites of four, season these with 1 teaspoonful of salt, and stir them into the flour and cream, working all thoroughly together. Have ready a very clean frying-pan, and in this heat almost to smoking 1 table-spoonful of fresh butter; pour in a thin layer of the batter, and turn when set. Serve these piled one on the other with caster sugar and powdered cinnamon over each. Pancakes.—(1) Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of flour with 1 pinch of salt. Beat the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, add a few drops of orange-flower water, and then stir them in with the flour. Butter a small omelet-pan, put in a small quantity of the batter, and cook it over the fire for a minute or two; then turn and cook the other side. Roll up the Pancake, put it on a hot dish, and keep near the fire till all are made. Arrange the Pancakes on an ornamental dish-paper on a dish, sprinkle with a little sugar, and serve.