THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 68 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensits, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Tongues—continued. round it, push a skewer through it lengthwise, and roast in front of a clear lire for a couple of hours. When nearly done, remove the paper in order to brown the tongue, roast for twenty or twenty-five minutes longer, put it on a dish, and serve with a little red-currant jelly. (3) Take a neat’s tongue, boil it, blanch, and put it away till quite cold. When the tongue has cooled, cut a hole in the under-part and scoop out the meat, mince this fine with two, or, if the tongue is large, three hard-boiled eggs, a good-sized apple, a small quantity of , beef-suet, and a little bacon; season with a little powdered ginger and finely-powdered dried herbs and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Mix all these very thoroughly and then stuff the tongue with the mixture. Wrap the end of the tongue in a veal- caul, lard it with fat bacon, and roast. Garnish with sliced lemon and barberries, and serve with sauce made of butter, gravy, and orange-juice. Scalloped Ox-Tongue.—Chop up sufficient cold cooked tongue to fill 2 breakfast-cups, and mix in 1 teaspoonful each of capers, chopped parsley, and salt, a little pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of onion-juice mixed up in 1 teacupful of stock. Sprinkle sifted breadcrumbs, over a well-buttered scallop-dish, put in the tongue preparation, cover with more breadcrumbs, making the total quantity used, 1 breakfast-cupful, and put so e small pieces of butter here and there over the top. Place the dish in the oven, bake for twenty minutes, take it out, and serve at once. Stewed Larded Ox-Tongue.—(1) Put an Ox-Tongue into a saucepan of salted water, boil it for an-hour and-a-half, take it out, drain it, peel off the skin, and lard with bacon and raw ham. Put some vegetables cut in slices, and trimmings of bacon into a saucepan, place a few pieces of veal on the top, and the tongue on the top of the veal. Pour over a little broth, place the lid on the pan, put it on the fire, and reduce the liquor to a glaze. Pour in more broth with a little white wine to half the height of the tongue, cover it with a piece of paper, and complete the cooking, turning it frequently. Take the tongue out, glaze it, pour over some Italian sauce, and serve. (2) Put an Ox-Tongue in a saucepan of salted water, boil for an-hour-and-a-half, take it out, and skin it. Cover the bottom of a saucepan with a layer of vegetables cut in slices and intermixed with trimmings of bacon, cover with trimmings of veal, lard the tongue with fillets of bacon and raw ham alternately, place it in the saucepan over the veal, pour in a little broth to moisten, cover the sauce- pan, put it on the fire, and cook the contents until the liquor is reduced to glaze. Pour in broth and white wine to half the height of the tongue, cover with a piece of greased paper, and cook until the tongue is quite tender, turning it over once or twice. Take it out when done, drain it, put it on a dish in the oven to glaze, pour over Italian sauce, and serve. Stewed Ox-Tongue.—Cut the root off a tongue but do not take all the fat off. Salt the tongue for a week with common salt and a little saltpetre, turning it every day. When it has laid in the salt for a week, boil it till the skin can easily be taken off. When skinned stew it in a little good gravy till sufficiently tender, seasoning with mushroom ketchup, soy, cayenne, pounded cloves, and, if it requires it, adding a little salt. Serve with morels, mushrooms, or truffles. Stewed Ox-Tongue with Parmesan Cheese.—Well wash, trim, and blanch an Ox-Tongue, put it into a saucepan with sufficient stock to cover, and boil until quite tender; then take it out, skin, and cut it up into thin slices. Put \ pint each of stock and white wine into a saucepan, and simmer slowly until reduced to half its original quantity. Turn half of this liquor into a dish, grate over some Par- mesan cheese, place the slices of tongue on the top, pour over the remainder of the liquor, and grate over more cheese. Put the dish in a moderate oven and bake the tongue until done and well browned; then take it out, and serve. Stewed Ox-Tongue with Raisins and Cuconari. Boil an Ox-Tongue (or four sheeps’ tongues) in cor.sommd or any rich , Ox-Tongues—continued. broth with 1 wineglassful of sherry in it. Take it out when done, skin, cut it into slices, and prepare a sauce • as follows: Put 1 breakfast-cupful <>,f cuconari (a very white grain, as large as a melon-seed, having the flavour of almonds, very much used in Greece and Turkey), or 4oz. of blanched and chopped almonds, into a basin, and pour over boiling water to cover; serve 1 breakfast-cupful of sultana raisins in the same way. Put 4oz. of butter into a saucepan on the fire, melt it, stir in the strained juice of a lemon, 1 table-spoonful of Hour, \ table-spoonful of powdered sugar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of cream. Bring these to the boil, add the raisins and cuconari, all of which must be well drained and wiped on a cloth, and lastly add the slices of tongue. Make all the ingredients hot, and serve at once. OXALIC ACID.—An acid that is found in sorrel, rhubarb, and other things. It is frequently but erroneously styled salts of lemon. OXFORD DUMPLINGS.—See Dumplings. OXFORD JOHN.—See Mutton. OXFORD NIGHT-CAPS—Whether these have or have not any relation to the festivities peculiar to the University of Oxford, or to the city of that name, or even to the county itself, it is certain that a few excellent receipts for spiced beverages have been collected under the above heading. In the belief that some of them at least are worthy of commemoration, they are hereunder duly recorded. Brown Betty.—Dissolve lib. of brown sugar in 1 pint of water, slice a lemon into it, let it stand a-quarter-of-an- hour, then add a small quantity of powdered cloves and cinnamon, t pint of brandy, and lqt. of good strong ale; stir all well together, put into the mixture a couple of slices of toasted bread, grate some nutmeg and ginger on the toast; and you have a Brown Betty. Ice it, and you will find it excellent in the summer; warm it, and it will be very comforting in the winter. Lamb’s Wool is merely a variety of the wassail bowl, and although not common in Oxford is a great favourite in some parts of England. The following is the origin of the term Lamb’s Wool, as applied to this particular beverage. Formerly the first day of November was dedicated to the angel presiding over fruits, seeds, &c., and was therefore named La Mas Ubal—that is the day of the apple fruit—and being pronounced lamasool, our country people have corrupted it to Lamb’s Wool. Lamb’s Wool was anciently often met with in Ireland, but is now rarely heard of in that country, having been entirely superseded by the more intoxicating liquor called whisky. Mix the pulp of half-a-dozen roasted apples with some raw sugar, a grated nutmeg, and a small quantity of ginger; add lqt. of strong ale made moderately warm. Stir the whole well together, and, if sweet enough, it is fit for use. This mixture is sometimes served up in a bowl, with sweet cakes floating in it. Leander Punch..—This drink was invented by Mr. Fellows, who was for many years an active member of the well-known Leander Boat Club, from which it takes its name. The inventor caused the Punch to be introduced into the university by a friend at Christ Church College. Four glasses of whisky if possible (Irish), two of brandy, and the juice and peel of one large lemon. Add boiling water to make lqt., and if not enough, ad libitum. Then boil 1 wineglassful of good old ale, and put the froth into the punch with L table-spoonful of the ale; sweeten to taste, and stir. If it stands in a jug near the fire for half-an-hour it will be improved. Oxford Bishop, or Spiced Wine.—Bishop seems to be one of the oldest winter beverages known, and is to this day preferred to any other, not only by the youthful votary of Bacchus at his evening’s revelry, but also by the grave