118 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. out Paste-leaves, &c., to be used for decorating raised and other pies. Tlie pastrycook should provide himself with a brush (see Pig. 144) for moistening the edges of the Paste with water to make them adhere, or for other purposes Fig. 140. Pastry-cutters, various designs (E. Cox). such as glazing, as well as a brush (see Pig. 145) for applying softened butter; these will be found most useful. Another important requisite is a Pastry-bag (see Pig. 146), this is also known as a biscuit-bag, being used chiefly for apportioning and depositing such small quantities of soft Fig. 141. Fluted or Scalloped Pastry-cutters (E. Cox). dough as would be required for the manufacture of macaroons, lady’s fingers, and other biscuits. For making tartlets, patties, and other such goods, a great variety of pans or moulds (see Fig. 147) are designed by manu- facturers. In the making of cakes, the pastry- Fig. 142. Bouchee. cook has an immense variety of tins for shaping; first of all he has the round cake-ring (see Pig. 148), which answers so well for the manufacture of wedding- cakes ; then the shallow cake-ring (see Pig. 149), for flat Paste and Pastry—continued. cakes; the oblong tin (see Pig. 150), for Genoa and similar cakes; square (see Pig. 151), for spiced loaves; round (see Fig. 152) with straight sides; round with sloping sides (see Fig. 153), and oval (see Pig. 154). In the way sponge baba cakes (see Fig. 157). Although the dawn (see Fig. 158) seems to have gone out of date to some extent, probably because it requires a ring, it is neverthe- FiG. 145. Butter-brush (Mathews and Son). less one of those productions that give the pastrycook almost unlimited scope for the exercise of his talent. The old-fashioned puff (see Fig. 159) is another species of Pastry that deserves encouragement; it is easily manufactured and gives most satisfactory results pro- vided the Pastry be light, although not necessarily so Fig. 147. Tartlet- and Patty-moulds. light as that required for a vol-au-vent (see Fig. 160). In the way of fancy Pastry, some very pretty designs are occasionally prepared, such as bird’s-nests (see Fig. 161),