TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 998 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. Roasted Saddle of Mutton with Chestnut Puree.—Trim both fillets of a saddle of Southdown Mutton, lard them, fix them on a spit, and roast in front of a clear fire, hasting constantly. When cooked (it will take about three -quarters- of-an-hour) remove the saddle from the spit, dust some salt over, and cut the fillets in slices, in rather a slanting direction, letting them adhere to a small part of the fat. Cut off the sides of the saddle, place them on a remove- dish, forming with them a kind of support, on which arrange the carved fillets of the saddle. Serve it with a separate dish of chestnut puree and a sauceboatful of melted half-glaze. Rolled Neck of Mutton.—With a sharp knife remove the skin from a piece of the best cr.d of neck of Mutton, saw off the hones, reserving the cutlets for another time. Take the pieces of meat that were left on the bones and trimmings, lay some on the skin with a few pieces of bacon, and put the rest in a mortar with any trim- mings of either cooked or uncooked meat that may he handy, half a chopped onion, and about 2oz. of butter ; pound the mixture until smooth, and season it to taste with salt, pepper and powdered sweet herbs. Pass the pounded mixture through a fine hair sieve, and spread it on the skin over the pieces of bacon, &c. Fold the skin over about bin. at each side, then roll it up tightly lengthwise, completely enclosing the meat; bind it round several times with thread. Peel and slice an onion, put it in a stewpan with a piece of bacon-fat, and fry it; next put in the meat, turn it about two or three times over the fire until it has slightly browned, then moisten to about half its height with nicely-flavoured stock, and let it boil gently at the edge of the fire until cooked. When ready remove the thread, place the meat on a hot dish, strain its cooking-liquor over, and serve. Rolled Shoulder of Mutton.—(1) Take out the bone from a shoulder of Mutton, and with a sharp knife cut out all the lean, leaving the fat and skin intact; finely mince the lean, season it highly with pepper, salt, finely-chopped parsley, lemon-thyme, spring-onions, lemon-peel, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg ; make the whole into a mass by adding a well-beaten egg or two, put all back again into the skin, roll it up as tightly as possible, and bake for two-hours-and-a-half in a moderate oven. Pre- pare a gravy with the bones and trimmings well seasoned with pepper and salt, add also one onion, 1 table-spoonful or so each of vinegar and soy, and 1 wineglassful of port wine; when hot, pour it over the Mutton on a dish, and serve. (2) Mix with 1 teacupful of grated stale breadcrumb 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped suet and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley; season them with salt and pepper, and bind the mixture with beaten egg. Stuff a boned shoulder of Mutton with the dressing, roll it, and tie it loosely with twine. Put Jib. of butter into a saucepan over the fire, and when it lias melted put in the shoulder and place the lid over. Turn the meat occasionally and baste it well. In about an-hour-and-three-quarters’ time, put the meat on a hot dish; drain the butter out of the saucepan, and pour in 1 teacupful of water, stir it well to mix in the browning at the bottom of the pan, season with a small quantity of salt and pepper, boil it, then pour it over the Mutton, and serve. (3) Select a shoulder that is not too fat, and bone it carefully as far as the first joint from the knuckle, season- ing it well with salt and pepper. Finely chop Jib. of beef- suet, and mix it with ill), of grated breadcrumb, one finely-chopped onion, 1 table-spoonful each of chopped thyme and parsley, The grated peel of half a lemon, and sa.lt, pepper, and grated nutmeg in moderate quantities. Bind the mixture with a beaten egg, stuff the boned shoulder with it, and tie it tightly round with string; put plenty of clarified butter in a flat stewpan, and when boiling put in the Mutton and fry it a pale golden brown all over. Put the Mutton into another stewpan, with a few slices of carrots, onions, and any other kind of vege- table that may be handy, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few cloves and peppercorns, and 1 h pints of common stock. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, Mutton—continued. and stew gently for two hours. At the end of that time, strain the gravy off from the Mutton into a smaller sauce- pan, skim off all the fat, and boil it quickly until reduced to a glaze. Put the Mutton on a hot dish, pour the glaze over, and serve. (4) Put into a small saucepan two bay-leaves, one onion, a few sprigs of parsley and lemon-thyme, a small piece of ginger, 1 teaspoonful each of peppercorns and pimento-berries, a few cloves, 4 table-spoonfuls of brown sugar, 1 teacupful of claret, 4 teacupful of vinegar, and 1 pint of water. Stir the mixture over the fire until on the point of boiling, then move it away and leave until cold. Having selected a nice fresh shoulder of Mutton, put it into a shallow pan, pour the abjve marinade over, and leave it for four or five days, turning and basting well every day. When ready, bone the shoulder carefully and prepare the following mixture for it: Mix with about fib. of sausage-meat 1 table-spoonful of finely-grated breadcrumb, 2 table-spoonfuls of truffles cut into small pieces, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient beaten egg to bind it without making it too soft. Stuff the shoulder with the mixture, shape it nicely and tie it round with tape; dredge it plentifully with flour, and roast it in front of a clear fire, basting frequently. Put the bones of the shoulder into a saucepan with 1 pint of water and \ teacupful of the marinade mixture, and boil it until reduced to 4 pint. Put lib. of French plums into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of loaf sugar and sufficient water and claret in equal quantities to moisten them to height; stew them gently until tender. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a small stewpan and stir it over the fire until browned, then strain hi the liquor from the bones and all the gravy that has dripped from the meat; stir it over the fire until boiling. Place the Mutton on a hot dish, pour the prunes and their liquor round it, and serve with the gravy in a sauceboat. Rolled Under-cut of Shoulder of Mutton.—Season the meat well with salt and pepper; prepare a savoury force- meat of herbs with plenty of parsley, but without eggs, and fill the inside of the meat with it, rolling up tightly to an oval shape and binding round with tape. Put it in a stewpan with two or three carrots and onions, a bay-leaf, and a bunch of herbs ; season with salt and pepper, moisten with a small quantity of cold water, cover with the lid, and stew over a slow fire, keeping it well basted. When nearly cooked, remove the cover from the pan, and brown the meat in the oven. When ready, place the meat on a hot dish and carefully remove the bindings. Strain what remains of the cooking-liquor, skim off all the fat, and boil down until reduced to a strong glaze. Pour the glaze over the meat, and serve with a sauceboatful of cucumber sauce. Saddle of Mutton a la Portugaise.—(1) Put 2qts. of port wine into a saucepan with 1 pint each of vinegar and stock, add a seasoning of cloves, allspice, and bay-leaves, also six chopped shallots, three onions, and two carrots, and boil. Trim off the tail part of a saddle of Mutton and cut away the superfluous fat, pour over the boiling marinade, and leave it for four or five days, turning it frequently. Fix it on a spit, tie it up in paper, and roast for about three hours in front of a clear fire. When nearly done, remove the paper, and put the joint on a dish; strain some of the liquor, add to it a little red-currant jelly and rich gravy, boil for a few minutes, and pour it over the meat. The saddle will be quite black in appearance, but the taste will be superb. (2) To make this dish look well, the saddle should be so carved as to leave the sides. When cold, put the under-cut and surplus meat cut up small into a stewpan with a few drops of mushroom ketchup, a minced pickled gherkin, and a small quantity of thickened gravy, but not sufficient to be too liquid. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and keep at the side of the fire until very hot, but without allowing it to boil. Spread the mixture on the saddle, in the space from which the meat has been cut, level it at the sides, strew grated breadcrumb over, and place it in the oven. When hot, if not sufficiently browned, pass the salamander over the breadcrumbs, place the saddle on a hot dish, and serve with a dish of red-currant jelly.