THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 55 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils Sauces, <Lc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Cheek or Head—continued. Ox-Hearts—continued. taste. Put the pan at the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for seven hours. Take out the cheek when tender, cut off all the meat in small pieces, put them into a saucepan, pour over 1 pint of the liquor after it has been skimmed and strained, and add also 1 wineglassful of port wine and a few forcemeat balls; warm them all, turn them out on to a dish, and serve very hot. (2) Cut off all the meat from an Ox-cheek that has been washed and soaked, break up the bones, put them with the meat into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and sprinkle in a little salt and a few pepper- corns. Tie up a few cloves and a blade of mace in a small muslin bag, put it into the saucepan, and add five turnips, six carrots, three onions cut into slices, a head of celery chopped up rather small, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Set the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for four hours or until the meat is quite tender. Take out the pieces of meat, put them on a dish, add a little browning and thickening to the gravy, pour it over the meat, and serve. A wineglassful of port wine if added to the liquor after the meat is taken out is an improvement. Stewed Ox-Head.—Put the head to soak in cold water the night before it is wanted, split it in halves, put it in a large saucepan with three or four carrots, two turnips, two onions stuck with cloves, half a burnt onion, and two bay- leaves. Fill the saucepan with cold water, season to taste with salt and pepper, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and keep it simmering gently at the side of the fire for four or five hours, adding more water when necessary. When quite tender, put the head on a hot dish, garnish it with some freshly-boiled vegetables, and serve with some of its cooking-liquor in a sauceboat. Ox-Hearts.—In the opinion of most professional cooks, the flesh of the Ox-heart is too coarse and greasy to be of any value for serving as a separate dish. This would appear to be somewhat of an error of judgment, for, prepared as follows, Ox-heart is not only tender, but delicious eating. It should be served at all times on very hot plates—hot-water plates if possible, or dinner plates set upon soup-plates containing hot water. The flesh of a cold Ox-heart is sometimes used either to increase the bulk of jugged hare or as a substitute for the flesh of the hare itself. Baked Ox-Heart.—Thoroughly wash and clean an Ox-heart and boil it for two or three hours, or till tender, allowing the water to nearly boil away, so that the remaining liquor can be used for gravy. Make a sage-and-onion stuffing. Take the heart out when cooked, cut a piece out of the middle, and fill the hollow with the stuffing. Put the heart in a baking-dish, pour the liquor round it, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and bake till brown. Cut the piece of heart that was taken from the middle into small pieces, put them with the liquor that is left in the Fig. 71. Baked Ox-Heart. pan after the heart is done, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of thickening. Put the heart on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, garnish with French beans or Brussels sprouts and potato balls (see Fig. 71), and serve very hot. Boiled Ox-Heart.—Put an Ox-heart into a basin of water, wash it well both in the cavities and outside to clear out all the blood, place it in a saucepan of salted water or stock, and boil for three hours. Take it out when done, cut it into thick slices, arrange them on a dish, and serve with a rich brown gravy poured over. Roasted Ox-Heart.—(1) Put an Ox-heart into a basin of warm water and let it soak for an hour to wash out all the blood. Take it out, wipe dry with a cloth, stuff it with some highly-seasoned forcemeat, tie round a piece of well-buttered paper, pass a spit through it, and place in front of a clear fire to roast, basting frequently with butter. "When done (it will take about two hours), remove the paper, put it on a dish, and pour over piquant sauce or a little rich gravy. (2) Wash the heart well, rinse all the blood carefully from the pipes, and parboil it for ten minutes. Make a stuffing of breadcrumbs mixed with finely-minced suet or butter, a small quantity of thyme, salt and pepper, and a little grated lemon-peel and nutmeg. Roast it in front of a clear fire, baste well with butter, and just before dish- ing stir 1 table-spoonful of currant jelly into the gravy. Place the heart on a hot dish, pour the gravy over, and serve very hot. Twenty minutes for every pound should be allowed for roasting the heart. Stewed Ox-Heart.—Put an Ox-heart into a basin of water, wash it well, and let it soak to clean out the blood. Take it out, dry on a cloth, cut it in halves, rub them well over with flour, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry to a brown colour. Put them in a saucepan with a sprig of thyme and four or five onions cut hi slices and fried, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and pour in sufficient water to cover. Place the pan on the fire, and cook the halves of heart gently for about three hours; then take them out, skim the fat from the liquor, reduce it, thicken, and add 1 wineglassful of claret and 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar. Put the heart back again into the saucepan, warm it up, put it on a dish, pour over the gravy, and serve. Ox-Kidneys.—The size of these, and their somewhat coarse nature, places them quite outside the usual culinary preparations prescribed for the smaller kidneys, such as sheep’s, lamb's, &c.; nevertheless, modern artistic cooks have found several effective modes of cooking them. Fried Ox-Kidney.—(1) Cut a kidney in slices and put them in a basin of warm water for two-hours-and-a-half to soak, changing the water once or twice so as to thoroughly cleanse them. Take the slices out, dust them over with flour, salt, and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with 3oz. of butter, and fry to a light brown. Put them in a circle on a dish, mix 1 table-spoonful of piquant sauce in J pint of gravy with 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar in it, pour it in the centre of the circle, and serve. As a rule Ox-kidneys are coarse, but cooked as above they are tender and luscious. (2) Trim and clean some Ox-kidneys, dry them, and cut them in slices; dust over with salt, pepper, and flour, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry until dene through and browned. Place them on a hot dish, and stand it in the oven while the gravy is being prepared. Put a little butter and flour to the liquor in which the kidneys were cooked, pour it over them, and serve. Fried Ox-Kidneys with Champagne.—Select some kidneys that are of a good colour, remove a little of the fat, mince them, mix with a little chopped parsley and shallots, and sprinkle over salt and pepper. Place this in a frying-pan over a moderate fire, and when done dust over with flour; add 1 wineglassful of champagne and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of bd charnel sauce, and serve. Ox-Kidney Pie.—Take an Ox-kidney and lib. of “skirting,” cut them in pieces about 2in. square, and put them over the fire in a saucepan with a seasoning of pepper and salt and just sufficient water to cover them. Let them stew gently till quite tender, then take them from the fire and let them get nearly cold. Take the fat off, put the meat and gravy into a pie-dish, lay a crust over it, and bake for an hour. Ox-Kidney Rissoles.—(1) Cut an Ox-kidney into even slices and shape them into rounds, also the same quantity of