113 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Paste and Pastry—continued. it on the Paste (see Fig. 134). Fold over the sides (see Fig. 135) and then the ends in such a manner that the butter is entirely wrapped up. Roll this out with the pin, pushing the Paste forward as well as the Fig. 134. Making Puff Paste. butter in its interior; continue rolling until it forms a long strip (see Fig. 136 A), not more than -Jin, or Jin. in thickness, preserving- the regularity of shape as well as possible. Next fold it over in three layers (see Fig. 136 B), and when thus folded (see Fig. 136 C), give it another turn as shown by the dotted line: this is called one turn. Roll it out again to A, and fold again as in B-C : this makes another turn. Every time this process is repeated adds what is termed a turn to the Paste; the very most required at any time for the lightest of French Feuilletage being six turns : five are generally recognised as good enough for most purposes, and many pastrycooks will not exceed three. A very famous French cook advises that under all circumstances, whether in winter or summer, the Paste should be set to cool for ten minutes between each two turns. The greatest care must be taken to prevent the butter escaping from the Paste. This happens, says Dubois, “ if the Paste is too soft, rolled out too thin, or not rolled out regularly to a flat, that is, if it remains thicker on one side than on the other.” The same author informs us that “ In summer it is very difficult to make good Puff Paste without the help of ice ora cool cellar; but this inconvenience may be obviated by replacing the butter with beef-suet. This suet must previously be well picked over, then soaked in fresh water, well drained, and then pounded,” and thus made into a fine smooth Paste. Paste and Pastry—continued. Should it require to be rendered more supple, it can be worked in the cloth as prescribed for the butter. The plan of making Puff Paste, as practised by British professional pastrycooks, differs from the French mode in one or two particulars, as shown in the following in- structions, contributed by Mr. W. A. Rawson to the Cooks’ Journal: Take 31b. of well-dried sifted flour and the same quan- tity of butter; mb a fourth of the butter until it is taken up in the flour, then mix with water, adding the juieq of half a lemon. If salted butter be used, it must be washed in cold water, so as to free it from salt. Let the Paste be firm, for if it is made soft it will not be a success. When you have proceeded so far, roll out the Paste on a slab to about Jin. thick, and spread the remainder of the butter over it, which should not be too soft or too hard, but spreadable. This done, fold over and roll out again; repeat this three times, then roll it up loosely, cover with a floured cloth, and put it in a cool place for two or three hours, or until wanted for use. You will understand from this that Puff Paste consists of a number of layers of butter and dough; these layers should be worked without breaking through into each other. You must therefore use your rolling-pin very lightly, for if you use it too heavily you will perforate the Paste, and the butter will run out in cooking. Fig. 136. Making Puff Paste. The trimmings of Puff Paste or pieces cut away should never be mixed up again with the original mass, as the cut edges would allow the butter to overrun the layers, and spoil its flakiness. It is commonly used for making patties, pies, or decorating tartlets, &c., and is known to the pastrycook as second or patten Paste. Of the varieties of Puff Paste the following may be considered the more important: (1) Sift 21b. of very dry flour, put it on the table, make a hollow in the centre, and throw in 1 pinch of salt and two or three little pieces of butter that have been cut off 21b. In making this Paste, the same quantity of butter as of flour is used. Work the butter and flour together, then add the beaten yolks of three eggs and sufficient water to make a Paste of the consistency of the butter. If the Paste is not of the right consistency, the butter will break through when the Paste is turned. When the dough has been lightly worked, mould it into a ball, which flatten quickly in the middle. Put the remainder of the 21b. of butter on the table, and work it with a little water to extract the butter-milk, then roll it in a cloth, and squeeze till all the moisture is out. Flatten the butter, put it in the Paste, and fold the Paste well over it. Sift a little flour over the table, and roll the Paste out with a rolling-pin into a long strip. Double the Paste in three, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jtc., referred to, see under their special heads. VOT,. II.