TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 28 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces,'die., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. sliced Onion and tomatoes in layers in a salad-bowl, and pour over them a plain salad dressing made by mixing to- gether 1 teacupful of salad-oil, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, £ teaspoonful of salt, and l saltspoonful of pepper. Use the salad as soon as it has been made. Young green Onions may be used for this salad. See Fig. 39. Pickled Onions.—(1) Put the desired quantity of small Onions into hot water, and then peel them ; when all are done, put them into fresh salted water with a small piece of alum in it, and leave them until the following day; drain oil the water, cover them with fresh, adding more salt and alum, and leave them a day longer. After- wards drain and put them into jars, placing in each jar one or two blades of mace, one or two chillies, a few white peppercorns, and a small quantity of horseradish. Pour in sufficient vinegar to cover the Onions well, cork the bottles, cover with parchment, tie them down, and keep in a dry store-cupboard. In a month’s time the Onions will be ready for eating. (2) Select small round Onions, peel, and steep them in strong salted water for four days, changing the water two or three times. Wipe them quite dry, lay them in a jar, pour scalding milk over them, and let them remain until the milk is cold. Drain the Onions, wipe each one separately on a dry cloth, put them into jars, and pour over as much white wine vinegar that has been boiled and mixed with white pepper as will cover them well. Tie them over first with wet bladder and then with leather, and keep the jars in a dry store-cupboard. (3) Remove the peels from lqt. of Onions, put them into a basin of salted water, let them remain for a day, and then change the water, adding a small quantity of alum to it. Take them out, drain, put them into jars with a little mace, chillies, white peppercorns, and horseradish, and cover well with vinegar. Let them remain for six months, pour off the vinegar, add fresh, and, if required, a few more peppercorns; tie the jars over with bladder, and in a few days’ time the pickle will be fit for use. (4) Peel lgall. of large Onions, cut them in slices, and sprinkle with salt; put them into jars, equally distribute over them twelve sliced dry or green capsicums, and loz. each of cloves, peppercorns, and allspice. Fill up the jars with vinegar, tie over with bladder, set them in a large sauce- pan with cold water up to their necks, and place a wet cloth over them to prevent the bladder bursting. Boil for an-liour-and-a-half, and the pickle will be ready for use. Pickled Onions and Cucumbers.—Peel twelve cucumbers and three large Onions, cut them all into thick slices, and dust over with salt. Leave them thus for a day, then drain them well, put them in a stone jar, pour over suffi- cient boiling vinegar to cover, and keep them in a warm place for a day. Drain off the vinegar again, and repeat the process until both Onions and cucumbers are quite green, adding a little pepper and ginger the last time of boiling. Tie down, and pack away in a cool place. Pickled Spanish Onions.—(1) Peel some Onions, cut a small round piece out of the bottom of each, and scoop out a little of the insides. Put them in a vessel with salt and water to cover, and let them remain for three days, chang- ing the water two or three times. Afterwards drain and stuff the Onions as follows: First put in a little ground mustard-seed, then some ginger cut small with a little mace and shallot, add more mustard, and fill up with scraped horseradish. Replace the bottom pieces, and bind the Onions round with string to keep them in place. Make a strong pickle of white vinegar, mace, ginger, nutmeg, sliced horseradish, and a little salt; put in the Onions and let them boil up two or three times, care being taken that they do not boil too much, for in that case they would lose their firmness and would not keep. Put them with the pickle into jars, leave them until the following day, then strain off the pickle, boil it up, and pour it over the Onions again. When the pickle is cold, tie the jars over first with wet bladder and then with leather, and keep them in a cool dry store-cupboard for use. (2) Peel and slice § peck of Spanish Onions, and slice four dozen large cucumbers, | peck of green tomatoes, and Onions—continued. four large green peppers; lay these ingredients in layers' in a bowl, strew plenty of salt over them, and leave them for one night. On the following morning, drain the ingre- dients from the salt and the juice that will have run from them, and put them in a preserving-pan with loz. each of mace, turmeric, white mustard-seed, and white pepper, loz. each of celery-seeds and cloves, 2oz. of dry mustard, and 1 fib. of raw sugar. Pour in sufficient vinegar to cover these ingredients, and boil them gently for an hour. Pack the pickle into stone jars, leave it until cold, then tie them over with stout paper, and put by in a cool dry store- cupboard. Roasted Onions.—Parboil the required number of large Onions, leaving their skins on, then drain them, put them in front of a clear fire, and roast; or roast them in a Dutch Fig. 40. Roasted Onions as a Garnish for Roasted Fowl. oven, taking care to turn them occasionally. They are then ready for use, and can be served as a garnish to roasted fowl. See Fig. 40. Scalloped Spanish Onions.—Peel 21b. of large sound Spanish Onions, put them in a lined pan over the fire with sufficient boiling water to cover them, add 1 teaspoonful of salt, and boil them until tender. Meantime grate an equal quantity of breadcrumb, and just moisten them with cold milk. When the Onions are tender, pull them apart with two forks, and put them into a buttered earthenware baking-dish in layers with the moistened breadcrumbs ; season each layer lightly with salt and pepper, having a layer of bread- crumbs at the top ; put over it 1 table-spoonful of butter in small pieces, place the dish in a hot oven until the breadcrumbs are brown, and serve hot. Spanish-Onion Cake.—Peel three or four large Spanish Onions, and chop them into small pieces; put them into a stewpan with 3oz. of butter, and stir over a slow fire for fifteen minutes, without letting them brown. Beat three eggs together with 1 breakfast-cupful of sour cream, and mix with them 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped ham and a small quantity of caraway-seeds. When the Onions are cool, add them to the .above ingredients. Roll out a thin round of tart paste, put it on a buttered baking-dish, spread the Onion mixture over it, and dust with salt. Bake the cake in a brisk oven, and serve while hot. Spanish-Onion Posset.—Peel a large Spanish Onion and boil it for five hours, then drain it as free of water as possible, and beat it to a pulp. Make a sufficient quantity of gruel with groats and milk, and when cooked move it to the side of the fire and put in the mashed Onion. Beat the yolk of an egg well and stir it into the posset; season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve while veiy hot. Spanish-Onion-and-Potato Croquettes.—Peel and boil a large Spanish Onion, and when very tender drain and beat it well. Mix the Onion with three times its quantity of hot mashed potatoes, work in 2oz. of butter, season with salt and plenty of black pepper, and mould the mixture into small balls. Put a large lump of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when boiling put in the balls and fry them until of a nice brown. Drain the balls for a second or so on a sheet of kitchen-paper, then pile them up high on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 41), and serve. Spanish-Onion Salad.—Soak some large Spanish Onions for a few hours, changing the water several times, for the