143 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pears—continued. Pear Drops.—Put the required quantity of crushed loaf- sugar in a preserving-pan, using enough water to make it drop off the spoon without adhering to it; flavour with essence of jargonel Pear, colour it lightly with a little prepared cochineal that has been finely ground and moistened with a little water. Stir the sugar over the fire with a spatula until it dissolves and makes a slight noise, hut on no account should it boil; take it off the fire when on the point of boiling, continue stirring with the spatula until it is sufficiently thick not to spread much when dropped from the spoon, but remain rounded in form; if too thin, more crushed loaf sugar may be added. Fill a small drop-pan with the preparation, and drop it from the lip on to a copper plate at regular intervals, separating the drop of sugar from the lip of the pan with a piece of straight wire. Leave the drops for an hour or so till firm and dry, then detacli them from the sheet with a thin knife, bottle them, and keep in a dry place. Pear Dumplings.—Make a good pastry, and cut it into pieces large enough to enclose a medium-size Pear; peel some Pears, leaving them whole, and keeping the stem intact; enclose them in pastry, brush them with beaten egg, and bake them in a moderate oven. Serve the dump- lings, either hot or cold, with powdered sugar or sauce. Pear Flavour with Cream.—Mix 5oz. of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt with 4oz. of flour; then stir in one whole egg and the yolks of three; add 3oz. of butter and a piece of lemon-peel, and stir it over the fire till cooked but do not let it boil; then keep it at the side till ready to use. Line a flawn-circle with short-paste, put some buttered paper all round the inside, fill it with common flour, and bake it. When baked, take the flawn out of the oven, empty it, and turn it out of the mould; nearly fill the crust with the prepared cream; have some small Pears cooked whole in syrup, colour them slightly with prepared cochineal, and arrange them in an upright position on the cream, pour a little of the syrup in which the Pears were cooked over them, and serve. Pear Flawn.—Prepare a good paste with Jib. of flour and some butter, roll it out into a round about lOin. in diameter, then gather it up about 2in. all round the edges, which crimp and decorate with a wreath of paste leaves. The edges of the flawn should be moistened with a little water to make them stick. Peel some fine Pears, cut them in halves lengthwise, and put them in a preserving-pan, with some sugar, the juice of one or two lemons, and the thinly-pared and shred rind of one lemon. Cook the Pears slowly till tender, then leave them till cold. Bind a strip of buttered paper round the flawn, fill it with the Pears and their syrup, and bake for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, take the paper oft' the flawn (see Fig. 193), glaze it over with apricot marmalade, and serve it. Pear Fritters.—Put as many good-cooking Pears as are required for the dish, cut them into slices lengthwise, cover with caster sugar, dip them in batter, plunge them into boiling oil, and fry a delicate brown. Take them out, drain, dust over again with sugar, place them on a napkin over a dish, and serve with sweet or wine sauce. Pear Jam.—Peel some ripe Pears, cut them into quarters, take out the cores, weigh them, and put them into an earthenware jar, packing them closely. Put the jar into a saucepan of water on the stove, cover the jar with a : piece of strong paper tied over, and let the water round the ' Fears—continued. jar boil till the fruit is soft enough to break; then put the same weight of sugar as there is fruit on the stove with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of water to each pound of sugar, and boil and skim till it is a clear syrup; put the fruit into it and stir till it boils, and boil for twenty minutes, stirring all the time ; then let it get a little cool, put it into jars, and when quite cold cover as for other marmalades. Pear Jelly.—Select ripe juicy Pears and cut them into quarters. Put them in a preserving-pan with 1 pint of water for every 41b. of Pears. Place them over a slow fire and boil until reduced to a pulp. Put the Pears in a jelly-bag, which should be hung over a basin, and let them drain for twelve or fourteen hours. At the end of that time, squeeze the bag to obtain any juice that has not run through into the basin, measure the juice, and put it into the preserving-pan with 4oz. of loaf sugar for every breakfast-cupful of it. Flavour with a small quantity of lemon-juice, and boil it over a brisk fire, stirring continually until reduced to a jelly. Turn the jelly into small jars, leave it until cold, then put a brandied paper on the top of each, and cover with parchment, tying it down securely. Keep the jars in a dry store cupboard for use. Pears in a Jelly Border.—Peel some nice-sized ripe Pears, cut them in halves length-wise, core and put them into a preserving-pan, squeeze in the juice of two lemons, and add Jib. of preserving sugar ; stew the Pears n tlier quickly till tender, then take them carefully out so as not to break them, and lay them on a dish till cold. Flavour lqt. of jelly with any liquor preferred; stand a cylinder mould, one not too deep must be used, on ice, pour in a layer of the jelly Jin. thick, and leave it till set. Dress the Pears round in a border, the reverse way, so that when the mould is turned over they will be in the right position, fill the mould up with jelly, and leave it till cold and set. When ready to serve, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the contents out on to a fancy dish, and fill the hollow in the centre with whipped red jelly. Pear Marmalade.—(1) Peel some ripe Pears, cut them into quarters, core and weigh them, put them into a preserving-pan, add sufficient water to cover, and bring very slowly to the boil, and simmer till they are tender; then take them out of the water, put into the water the cores and peel, boil for an hour, strain the water off into a basin or jug, and allow to every half pound of fruit, 1 breakfast-cupful of this water, and Jib. of sugar. When the requisite quantity of water is measured, and the sugar weighed, boil both together in the preserving- pan, keeping it well skimmed; try it now and then by putting a little in a saucer to cool; if it jellies slightly as it cools, then stir the Pears into it, boil for five minutes stirring all the tune, let it partly cool, then put it into jars. When quite cold, cover with white paper dipped in brandy, and fasten with paper dipped into white of egg beaten up, but not to a froth. (2) Peel and core 61b. of ripe cooking Pears, cut them in slices, and put them in a preserving-pan with 1 pint of water. Boil the Pears till thoroughly dissolved, keep- ing the cover over the pan, then mix with them 41b. of crushed loaf sugar, and stir it with a wooden spoon till reduced to a stiff paste. Turn the marmalade into pots, dip some rounds of paper in brandy, put one on each jar, and tie them down with paper and string. This is best done on the fol lowing day, or care must be taken that the marmalade is first quite cold. (3) Put 91b. of Pears in a saucepan over the fire in water, and boil them till they begin to soften. Take them up, drain them from the water, peel, quarter, and core them, and throw each piece as it is done into a saucepan of cold water. When all are in the saucepan, set it over the fire till the Pears are soft. Then teke them from the fire, and mb them through a sieve. Clarify 61b. of loaf sugar and boil it to the thread (see Sugar-boiling). Put the pulp of the Pears into a preserving-pan, pour the boiling sugar over it, set it over the fire, and keep stirring till the marmalade is of the proper thickness. Take it