TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 34 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—con tinued. dish, line it with short paste, and bake in a quick oven. W hen cooked, leave the paste till cold, then turn the Orange mixture into it, and serve. If preferred, it can be put into small tartlets, which should be baked in patty-pans before- hand. Oranges and Bananas for Dessert.—Peel four bananas (the red kind if possible), cut them across into rather thin slices, and arrange them in a glass dish; strain the juice from a couple of Oranges, pour it over the bananas, sprinkle them plentifully with powdered sugar, and serve imme- diately. Or peel the Oranges, slice them, and arrange the slices in the dish among the slices of bananas. Cream, either whipped or plain, may be served with this dish, also sugar. Orange Baskets.—(1) Select some Oranges with a clear skin, and with a blunt knife mark out the handle and rim of a basket in Vandykes. With a sharp penknife cut through the rind over the traced lines, taking care not to cut through the pulp. Take off the two spare pieces of peel, and with the handle of a teaspoon carefully take out all the pulp from the basket. Fill up the baskets Fig. 47. Orange Basket. with Orange jelly of whipped cream, and decorate with crystallised flowers (see Fig. 47); put a large flat of sponge cake in the centre of a dish, with a napkin spread over it, put one basket on the top of the cake, and surround with the remainder. Any form of extra ornamentations, such as perforations, &c., can be put in the basket. (2) Candied.—Cut and prepare the Oranges as for Orange Baskets, drop them into cold water for a few minutes, and then drain and simmer them gently in boiling water for three minutes in order to soften them, so that they may be cut with a perforating tin vegetable-cutter to represent open-work baskets. Put them into a sugar-boiler with some syrup at 24deg. (see Syrups), simmer gently for a few minutes, and then put them with the syrup into a basin. Let them remain for a day, strain off the syrup, boil up again, and pour it over the baskets, repeating the operation the following day. Take out the baskets, drain them, fill them with any kind of small preserved fruits or jellies, pour over a little syrup flavoured with maraschino, arrange them on a dish, and serve. Before cutting them into baskets they may be turned very thinly to remove the coloured rind, and in a spiral direction, which will make them quite transparent when finished. Orange Bavaroise.—Put the yolks of eight eggs into a saucepan and add lOoz. of loaf sugar and the peel of two Oranges steeped for an hour in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of boiling milk. Place the pan over the fire, and when the mixture begins to thicken add ljoz. of gelatine steeped in water, and strain the whole through a fine sieve into a pan or bowl. Pack this in ice, anti stir until it is quite thick, then mix in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of whipped cream. Line a cylinder-mould with Orange jelly, and when it is set pour in the mixture, pack the mould in ice, let it remain for two hours or so, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. Oranges—continued. Orange Beignets.—Peel some Oranges, carefully removing every particle of the white part of the rind; divide them into pieces, roll each piece in powdered white sugar, dip them in batter, and fry. Orange Biscuits.—(1) Put 8oz. of butter into a basin, warm it, work it to a cream, and add the same quantity of Orange sugar. Chop into thin slices 2oz. of candied Orange-peel, mix it in, and add gradually 4oz. of dried flour and the well-beaten yolks of eight eggs. Beat the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, stir them in, pour the mixture into well-buttered moulds, sprinkle over a little caster sugar, and bake in a slow oven for five or six minutes. Turn them out when done, let them get cold, and they are then ready for use. (2) Put two or three Seville Oranges into a saucepan of water, and boil them until the rinds are quite tender, changing the water frequently to take off the bitterness. Take them out, drain them, cut them in halves, scrape out all the pulp, carefully removing all the pips, and pound the rind to a pulp in a mortar. Rub the rind pulp through a sieve, and add it to the inside pulp and juice, weigh it, and add double the quantity of caster sugar. Stir 1X611, and let it stand for twelve hours or so. Brash over a baking-sheet with salad-oil. pour the mixture on it, spreading it very thinly, let it remain for a few hours in the dry closet, cut it into shapes, and when they are quite dry on one side turn them over and diy the other side. Arrange them on a dish, and serve. (3) With 6oz. of sugar nib off the rind of half an Orange, then pound well. Sift Jib. of flour on to a table, make a bay in the centre, put in Joz. of yeast dissolved in 1 teacupful of warm milk, also 2oz. of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a very little salt, 4oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and the Orange sugar. Mix all these thoroughly and set it to rise in a warm place for five or six hours. Roll out the paste to about Jin. in thickness, cut it into narrow strips, cut them slantwise into pieces about 5in. long, and form them into rings, taking care that the join is almost invisible. Put half of them at a time into a saucepan of boiling water on the fire, gently agitate the surface to cause them to rise, take them out, drain them, put them into cold water, and when they are cold take them out and drain. Dip them into beaten egg, let them drain, put them on to waxed baking-sheets, and bake in a very moderate oven until they are slightly coloured. Take them out and they are ready for use. They may be formed into any desired shape, such as twists, knots, &c. (4) Grate the rind of an Orange into Jib. of flour and put them into a mortar. Beat six eggs with fib. of powdered white sugar, mix this with the flour and grated peel in the mortar, and beat it to a paste. Put this paste into biscuit-moulds, and bake in a rather hot oven. Orange Bitters.—(1) Macerate 01b. of Orange-peel for twenty- four hours with lgall. of water. Cut the yellow part of the peel from off the white, chop it fine, and macerate in 4fgalls, of 95 per cent, alcohol for two weeks, then add a syrup made of 4Jgalls. of water and 16lb. of sugar. Filter through Canton flannel. (2) Take Joz. of Seville Orange-peel, Joz. each of lemon- peel, gentian root and ginger, all bruised, and put them into a jug; pour 1 pint of boiling water over them and cover with a cloth. (3) Peel the yellow rinds as thinly as possible off three dozen Seville Oranges; put the rinds into a tub with 2galls. of strong gin and 3-lb. of loaf sugar, cover, and let them stand for three months. At the end of that time, strain the bitters, pour it into bottles, cork them tightly, and put away for use. Orange Brandy.—(1) Put twenty large Seville Oranges into a jar with 4lb. of crushed loaf sugar, 2galls. of pale brandy, and a little cinnamon, and stir very gently for three weeks, taking care not to bruise or injure the Oranges. Strain off the liquor through a flannel or jelly-bag, put it into bottles, cork down, and it is ready for use. (2) Peel off as thinly as possible the yellow rinds of eight lemons .and eight Seville Oranges ; put the rinds in a large jar with 31b. of loaf sugar, a small quantity of