980 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. some of the macedoine in the centre, pour round a little half-glaze, and serve. (3) Take some cutlets from a neck of Mutton, trim them, and beat them flat. Dip the cutlets into a thin batter made of flour, a little salt, and cold water; sprinkle them with fine browned breadcrumbs, and fry quickly in boiling- hot lard or clarified fat. Drain them on paper and serve as hot as possible. (4) Trim some cutlets taken from a neck of Mutton and beat them flat. Shake a little salt and pepper over them, dip them in well-beaten egg, roll them in a paper of fine breadcrumbs till they are well covered, and fry in boiling luff lard or clarified fat. Drain them on paper, arrange upright and touching one another round a mound of mashed potatoes, and serve hot. (5) Take the cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton, trim off a little of the fat, and shorten the hones. Put a lump of butter into a flat stewpan, place it over a brisk fire, and when melted put in the cutlets, previously dusting them over with salt and pepper, and fry them nicely on both sides. When tender, drain a little of the fat oft', pour over the cutlets \ teacupful of Spanish sauce and the strained juice of a small lemon, add a small piece of glaze, and stir the whole at the side of the fire until the glaze has dissolved, but do not let the sauce boil. Lay the cutlets on a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. (6) Cut off some cutlets, trim them into equal shapes, and season them with salt and pepper. Put them first into some well-beaten egg, then into breadcrumbs, and throw them into a frying-pan with boiling fat; they will take from eight to ten minutes to fry. Put them in a circle on a dish, pour some rich tomato sauce round them, and serve. (7) Hindustani.—Cut off the required number of chops from a neck of Mutton, trim oft' all the fat, and scrape the ends of the bones; wrap them singly in mashed potatoes, Fm. 1223. Fried Mutton Cutlets (Hindustani Style). brush them over with egg, or dip them in hatter, and fry. Serve hot with tomato sauce. See Fig. 1223. (8) Italian.—Trim some Mutton cutlets taken from the neck end, dip them in egg first and then breadcrumbs, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry. Put a border of mashed potatoes round a dish, and place the cutlets on them. Have ready some thin strips of tongue, truffles, and macaroni, in equal quantities, and add to them 1 teacupful of white sauce. Mix well together, place them in the centre of the dish, and pour 1 teacupful of good brown sauce round, and serve. Fried Mutton Cutlets a la Proven$ale.—Cut off about 31b. of cutlets from a neck of Mutton, trim, and fry them in a little butter. When done, take them out of the frying-pan, put them on a board with a weight on the top, and let them get cold. Trim them again to an equal size and shape. Put \ pint of white Soubise sauce into a saute-pan, and add six mushrooms, one onion, one shallot, half a clove of garlic, and salt and pepper to taste. Place the pan on the fire and cook them for ten minutes, remove the garlic, mix in the yolks of four eggs and 1 table spoonful of parsley, and cook them well until it becomes a thick paste. Spread this over the cutlets when arranged on a dish on one side only, dust some browned breadcrumbs and grated Parmesan cheese over, and heat through in the oven. Put some gocd brown sauce in a tureen, and serve. Fried Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise.—Saw off the upper rib-bones from the best end of a neck of Mutton, leaving the cutlet-bones about 3iu. long. Saw off the spine-bone, Mutton—continued. cut off the cutlets, trim them, and with a knife remove the meat from the end of the bone by scraping it, leaving about tin. of bone showing. Arrange the cutlets in a saute-pan, dust salt and pepper over them, put in loz. of butter, and fry them to a good brown colour on each side. Put the cutlets on a dish in a circle, pour some Soubise sauce in the centre, and serve. Fried Mutton Cutlets garnished with Haricot Beans.— Take some cutlets from the best end of a neck of Mutton and dip them first in egg and then in breadcrumbs. Put them into a frying-pan with hot fat or melted butter and fry them. Take 1 breakfast-cupful of haricot beans and four onions (both well cooked) and put them in a stewpan with loz. of butter, add pepper and salt to taste, and put them over the fire, stirring well; when quite hot pass through a fine sieve, and add 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce. Put the cutlets on a dish, place the beans, onions, &c., in the centre, pour a little brown sauce or half-glaze round them, and serve. Fried Mutton Cutlets with Mushroom Puree.—Trim off a little of the fat from twelve cutlets, brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, and roll in breadcrumbs; brush them over again with the beaten egg, breadcrumb them, and dip them in warmed butter and more breadcrumbs. Melt a lump of butter in a frying-pan or a flat stewpan, put in the cutlets, and fry them over a brisk fire, turning when done on one side. When cooked the cutlets should he well drained on a sheet of kitchen- paper. Blanch lib. of mushrooms in water with a little lemon- juice in it, drain, and chop them. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan on the fire, put in the mushrooms, and toss them about for a few minutes. Pour \\ teacupfuls of bechamel or veloute sauce over them, and boil gently for a few minutes. When sufficiently cooked, rub the mushrooms through a fine wire sieve. Pour the puree of mushrooms in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the cutlets round, and serve. Fried Mutton Steaks (French).—Cut a neck of Mutton into moderately thick slices, and trim them neatly; put them into a saucepan with a hunch of sweet herbs, two or three small onions, a few peppercorns, and cold water to cover them. Boil them for five minutes, then take the steaks out and in their place stew the trimmings ; stew until the liquor is well flavoured with them. Next strain the gravy and skim off all the fat. Beat up the yolks of one or two eggs, season some finely-grated breadcrumbs with chopped sweet herbs, and roll the steaks first in the egg and then in the breadcrumbs, coating them well on both sides; put them into a stewpan of boiling lard, and fry until nicely browned. Put loz. of butter in a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir over the fire until well browned, then mix in the strained gravy with 1 table-spoonful of vinegar and continue stirring over the fire until boiling and thickened. Drain the steaks as free from fat as possible, lay them on a hot dish, pour the gravy round, and serve. Fried Neck-of-Mutton Cutlets.—Take some cutlets, saw away the chine-bone, and take away about lin. of meat from the long bone. Cut off all the fat and gristle and flatten them with the cutlet-bat. Take each one separately, dip it first into egg and then into breadcrumbs, the latter being highly seasoned with salt and pepper, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry for six or seven minutes. Boil some potatoes, mash them with a little cream, add salt and pepper, form them into the shape of a mound in the centre of a dish, arrange the cutlets round, and serve. Fried Shoulder-of-Mutton Cutlets.—Take two thin slices from the lean under-cut of a shoulder of Mutton, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Place a small piece (about 4<>z.) of butter in a frying-pan, and when it is hot put in the cutlets. Cook them slowly, turning them often, and when done put them on a hot dish, pour over a little thickened gravy, and serve. Glazed Boiled Breast of Mutton.—Put a breast of Mutton into a saucepan with some stock and boil it until thoroughly