THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 84 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. them and let them remain in the hot liquor for a few minutes. Have ready a hot deep dish with some sippets of toasted bread at the bottom and round the sides, pour the Oysters and liquor on the toast, and serve hot. (5) Put lqt. of Oysters into a saucepan, strain their liquor, and put it in with them; add one bruised anchovy, a seasoning of salt, a little mace, white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and let all stew together for a- quarter-of-an-hour. Then pick out the mace and the bunch of sweet herbs, and add 4oz. of butter with 1 well-lieaped table-spoonful of flour rubbed into it, and stew the Oysters for ten minutes longer. Serve garnished with toasted bread and slices of lemon. (6) Mix J table-spoonful of cornflour smoothly with 1 pint of milk, pour it into a lined stewpan with loz. of butter in small pieces, and stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon until boiling; then season to taste, put in a dozen Oysters, and let it simmer at the side of the fire for half-an-liour. Cut some small crohtons of bread, squeeze lemon-juice over them, and let them soak for a few minutes. Put a piece of lard or butter in a flat stewpan, and when boiling add the pieces of bread and fry them until nicely browned, then drain. When cooked turn the Oysters on to a hot dish, garnish with the bread, and serve. (7) Open two or three dozen fine Oysters, beard them, put them with their liquor into a stewpan, add loz. of butter, 1 teaspoonful of made mustard, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped heart of celery, 1 table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the Oysters gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes, but do not over- cook them or they will shrivel up. When cooked, turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (8) Open two dozen Oysters, strain their liquor into a stewpan, and place it over the fire; when boiling, skim it, mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and flavour to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Put the Oysters in the sauce, and let them simmer at the edge of the fire for ten minutes. Cut three or four thin slices of bread, trim off all the crusts, and toast the slices. Butter the toast, lay it on a hot dish, put a few of the Oysters on each slice, pour the sauce round them, and serve. (9) Put about Jib. of butter in a stewpan and place it over the fire; when it has melted put in half-a-dozen large Oysters with their liquor, and shake the stewpan about until the Oysters are warmed through. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon, put the Oysters on a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast, and serve. (10) Open some Oysters, strain the liquor, put it into a saucepan over the fire, add sifted breadcrumbs to thicken it, and season to taste with a little white pepper and grated nutmeg. Put the Oysters into the liquor, add a wineglassful of white wine to every dozen Oysters, and stew them for seven or eight minutes. Have some slices of toast trimmed and buttered, and when the Oysters are done dip these pieces of toast in the liquor and arrange them round the edge of a hot dish; pour into the centre of the dish the stewed Oysters and liquor, and serve. (11) Take the requisite quantity of Oysters out of their shells; pour 1 teacupful of olive oil into a stewpan, set it over the fire till hot, then put in 1 teacupful of chopped parsley; lay the Oysters on the top, pour in sufficient water to cover them, and boil for fifteen minutes. Put the yolks of four eggs into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of the Oyster liquor and the juice of one lemon ; beat them well, then stir until a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the eggs are thick, but they must not boil. Drain the Oysters, lay them on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Stewed Oysters a la Baltimore.—Open neatly thirty-six medium-sized fresh (Rockaway) Oysters, place them in a saucepan without their liquor, and add 1 oz. of good butter; cover the pan, put it on the stove, and cook the Oysters for two minutes, then add 1 wineglassful of good Madeira wine and a very little cayenne pepper, cook together for two minutes longer, and add 1 gill each of Spanish sauce and half-glaze. Stir thoroughly until boiling, and just Oysters—continued. before serving squeeze in the juice of a lemon, add Joz. of butter and 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and serve immediately in a hot tureen. OYSTER-CRABS.—See Crabs. OYSTER-PLANT.—A plant known to botanists as Mertensia maritima, the root of which when cooked somewhat resembles the oyster in taste. It grows very freely in America, and can be prepared in any of the following styles: Boiled Oyster-Plant.—Scrape a bunch of tender Oyster- plant, putting the roots as they are scraped into cold water to which a little vinegar has been added. Cut the Oyster- plant into pieces, put it in a saucepan of boiling salted water over the fire, and boil for about twenty minutes, or until tender; then drain, add 1 table-spoonful of butter, cream enough to cover it, and a seasoning of salt and white pepper, and serve it as soon as the cream is hot. The cream may be omitted if not desired. Pried Oyster-Plant.—Cook a bunch of Oyster-plant as for Oyster-plant A la Roulette, and when done put it in a dish; season with \ pinch each of salt and pepper and 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, dip it well in frying- batter, and fry it in very hot fat for five minutes, separat- ing the pieces with a spoon. Lift them up with a skimmer, drain on a cloth, sprinkle over them a very little salt, and serve on a folded napkin, decorating witli a little fried parsley. Oyster-Plant a la Poulette.—Scrape a good-sized bunch of fine, fresh Oyster plant, plunge it at once into acidulated water, and when well washed, drain, and cut it into 2m. pieces. Place them in a saucepan and boil in plenty of water, adding 2 pinches of salt, 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and the same quantity of diluted flour. After forty minutes, or as soon as they bend to the finger, they are done. Lift them out, drain well, and serve with 1 pint of hot poulette sauce poured over them. Oyster-Plant Saute.—Scrape a large bunch of fine Oyster- plant, plunge it into cold water containing 2 table-spoon- fuls of vinegar, so as to prevent it turning black, take it from the water, drain, and cut it lengthwise into 2in. pieces. Place them in a saucepan with 2 table-spoonfuls each of vinegar and flour, mix well, cover with plenty of cold water and a handful of salt, put the lid on, and let them boil slowly for forty minutes. Then drain, put them into a saute-pan with ljoz. of butter, and season with J pinch of pepper, the juice of half-a-lemon, and 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Heat well for five minutes, tossing occasionally, then place them in a deep hot dish, and serve. FACHWAI.—A kind of beer made in Bengal, from rice or other grain. It is not generally consumed by Europeans. FADDY.—The name given by the East Indians to unhusked rice. FAELA.—A favourite Spanish dish containing the usual oil and garlic. It is made as follows: Put 1 breakfast-cupful of olive oil into a saucepan, make it hot over the fire, and stir in lib. of well-washed and dried rice, one or two cloves of garlic, a little chopped parsley, an onion in pieces, two or three toasted green chillies, the pulp of eight or nine large tomatoes, and a seasoning of salt. The chillies should be peeled and cut into strips. Cut Jib. or so of cooked ham in small squares, and cut off the fillets of a fowl; put these in the sauce- pan with the rice, moisten with a little weak stock or broth, and cook slowly until the rice is done, and not pulpy but in grains. An earthenware dish (without a cover) that will stand the heat of the fire and can be sent to table is the best for this. PAGANINI TARTLETS.—See Tartlets.