THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 48 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensilst~Sauces, &c.. referred to, see under their special heads. Orange-flowers—continued. houses; and the perfume of flowers so grown is nearly as strong as that of those grown in warmer climates. The flowers of the Mock Orange, Philadelphus coronarius (see Fig. 61)—erroneously called Syringa, which name pro- perly belongs to the lilac—are sometimes substituted for Orange-flowers, which they closely resemble both in smell and appearance. Orange-flowers are candied or crystallised by steeping them in candy sugar, and drying as described under Gandy and Crystallising. Orange-flower Biscuits.—Mix Jib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar with the well-whipped whites of three eggs and loz. of finely-chopped candied Orange-flowers. Have ready several small paper cases fin. in width and of the same height, half fill them with the mixture, dust them over with caster sugar, put them in a damp place to melt the sugar, then place them in a slow oven, and bake until they have slightly risen and are of a good colour. Turn them out of the cases, and they are ready for serving. Orange-flower Bonbons in Cases.—Put 12oz. of loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler and boil it to 38deg. (see Syrups). When it is cool, grain it with a spatula until it is perfectly white; then add loz. of candied Orange-flowers, working them well in, fill some paper cases with the mixture, and put them in the hot closet to dry; they are then ready for use. Orange-flower Cakes.—Put lib. of caster sugar into a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of Orange-flower water to dissolve it, and boil until clear ; bleach 1 handful of Orange-flowers in water and lemon-juice, squeeze them well in a cloth, and when the sugar is ready put the flowers in it. Whip the white of one egg well together with about 1 table-spoonful of cold water, and when the flowers have burst stir it quickly in with them. When the sugar rises, take it oil' the fire, pour it into small fancy-shaped moulds, and stand them in a cool place. Orange-flower Candy Tablets.—Put lib. of loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler, and boil it to the ball degree (see Sugar-boiling) ; add 1 table-spoonful of Orange-flower water, a few drops of acetic acid, and work the sugar against the sides of the pan with a spatula to grain it. When sufficiently white, pour it into tablet-moulds slightly masked with oil of almonds, place them in the screen to dry, and let the tablets remain for lialf-an-hour, when they should be quite brittle and ready for use. Orange-flower Cheese. -Put 1 handful of Orange-flowers into 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, and when cold strain through a fine sieve and mix it with 1 pint of thick cream. Put the basin or bowl containing it on the ice, and whip it continually until quite thick. Add some Orange-flowers—continued. dissolved isinglass, and sweeten with caster sugar. When the mixture is of the required consistence, pour it into a mould, freeze, turn it out, and serve. Orange-flower Conserve.—Clarify lib. of sugar and boil it to the feather (see Sugar-boiling), then take it from the fire, and stir in I table-spoonful of Orange-flower water. When this is well mixed with the sugar, put it over the fire for a minute or two, and pour the mixture while warm into shallow paper cases. When cool, cut it into small cakes. Orange-flower Cream.—(1) Put 1 pint of milk into a saucepan with 1 pint of cream, boil them, and add a little salt and caster sugar. Sprinkle in a few Orange-flowers, boil up, add the yolks of ten eggs, and thicken it over the fire. Put in a little dissolved isinglass, stir well, pour the mixture into a mould, freeze, and it is then ready to serve. (2) Put six whole eggs and the yolks of four into a basin, and whisk them well; then add 3 teacupfuls of cream, 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 pinch of Orange-flowers, and 1 small pinch of salt. Peat the mixture for ten minutes longer, or till the ingredients are thoroughly in- corporated, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a pie-dish. Stand the pie-dish in a tin with a small quantity of hot water, put it into a slack? oven, and leave it till the cream sets. Take the dish out of the oven, stand it on another flat dish, and serve the cream while hot. Orange-flower Custard Fritters.—Put loz. of caster sugar in a sugar-boiler, stir it over the fire till of a dark brown colour, then pour in 2 table-spoonfuls of water and 1 table spoonful of Orange flower water. Beat the yolks of eleven eggs together with 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the browned sugar when quite dissolved. Con- tinue beating the eggs, and pour in gradually 1J pints of boiling milk. When well mixed, strain the custard through a fine silk sieve. Butter eight teacups, fill them with the mixture, stand them in a saucepan with boiling water, taking care that the water does not reach to the tops of the cups, put the lid on the saucepan with some hot coals over, and poach them. Leave the custards till cold, then turn them out of the moulds and cut each into three slices. Dip each piece into a frying-batter, put them in a pan of hot fat, and fry. When done, dredge the fritters with caster sugar and glaze them under a salamander. Pile the fritters on a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve. Orange-flower Drops.—Sift some crushed sugar, first through a coarse sieve and then through a fine one; take about 21b. of the coarsely-sifted sugar, put it into a basin, and stir in with a spoon, adding gradually sufficient Orange- flower water to give the paste such a consistence that it will drop from the spoon without leaving any adhering to it. Turn this paste into a sugar-pan with a spout or lid to the right side, set the pan on the stove, and stir the contents with a spatula until the sugar is dissolved and makes a slight noise, but taking care not to let it boil. When on the point of boiling, remove the pan from the stove with the left hand, and with a piece of bent wire in the right cut up small equal-sized lumps, and let them drop on thick cartridge-paper or a smooth tin. Set them away in a dry closet for about twro hours, remove them from the paper or tin, by damping or easing with a knife, and pack away in bottles or boxes for use. A little essence of neroli and water may be substituted for the Orange- flower water if desired. Orange-flower Julep.—Mix in a pint glass 1 wineglassful each of Orange-flower water and syrup, and a few drops each of cloves and lemon, fill up the glass with broken ice, and arrange any kind of fruit on the top. Serve with straws. Orange-flower Liqueur.-—Slightly bruise lib. of freshly- gathered Orange-flowers, put them into a warifled bottle or jar, add a few green leaves of the Orange-plant, pour over 2qts. of over-proof spirit, then add 41b. of sugar pounded in the mortar in which the flowers were bruised; also add the thin rind of a lemon; cork tightly, give the