THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 33 Oranges—continued. jelly has set, pour warm water in the smaller mould to loosen it, then lift it out carefully, fill up the hollow space with the whipped cream, and stand the whole on ice for an hour longer. When ready to serve, dip the large mould containing the chartreuse in warm water, then turn its contents quickly on to a dish. This dish can be made to look very pretty and effective if a little care and judgment are exercised in its manufacture; the flavour is excellent. Compote of Oranges.—(1) Put the thin peel of eight Oranges into a saucepan with lib. of sugar and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water, and boil for twenty minutes, skimming frequently as the scum rises. Scrape off the white pith from the Oranges, taking care not to injure the inner skin; pull them into quarters, add them to the syrup, and simmer gently for six minutes longer. Take them out with a skimmer, arrange in a heap on a dish, keeping the skin side downwards ; boil the syrup until quite thick, and when cold pour it over the Oranges and serve. (2) Peel six Oranges, cut them into rings or slices, and remove their pips. Put |lb. of loaf sugar into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of water, and place it over the fire; when it boils, put in the finely-minced yellow rinds of three Oranges, and boil the whole for five minutes. Place the sliced Oranges in a basin, pour the hot syrup over them, cover the basin with a plate, and stand it in a cool place. When quite cold, pile the Oranges on a glass dish, pour their syrup over them, and serve. (3) Put the thinly-pared yellow rinds of five or six Oranges in | pint of water, stir in 5oz. or 6oz. of loaf sugar, and when it has dissolved pour in | pint of white wine. Scrape the white pith off' the Oranges, cut them into thin slices, arrange in a circle on a fancy or glass dish, with plenty of caster sugar strewn over and between them, with a few of the slices tastefully arranged in a group in the centre. Put the yellow peel round as a garnish, pour over the syrup, and place the dish on ice or in a cool place for several hours. Serve with fancy biscuits. Compote of Oranges and Apples.—Cut into thin round slices with their peels on about four Oranges, and dust them over with sugar. Peel six or seven large ripe apples, cut them into thin round slices, and cover them with more sugar. Arrange the Oranges and apples alternately in a glass dish, the slices overlapping each other, then sift more sugar over the whole, stand the dish on ice, and leave it for two hours. When ready to serve the compote, pour \ pint of white wine over it. Compote of Oranges and Cocoa-nut.—Carefully remove the peel and white part of five sweet Oranges, and grate off' the rind of one more, and one lemon. Separate the Oranges into natural sections. Put the grated rinds of the Orange and lemon, together with the juice of the latter, into a saucepan, add 8oz. of sugar and ^ pint of water, boil for five minutes, put hi the pieces of Oranges, boil for five minutes longer, take out the Oranges, boil the syrup until quite thick, then let it get perfectly cold. Put a few of the pieces of Oranges on a glass dessert-dish, sprinkle with grated cocoa-nut, pour over a little of the syrup, and continue in this way until all is used up; pile on top 1 pint of well-whipped cream, dust over with nonpareils or chopped pistachio-nuts, and serve. Conserve of Orange. — Grate the rind of one Orange into a saucer, squeeze its juice over, and mix well. Put lib. of crushed loaf sugar in a pan with a small quantity of water, place it over a slow fire, and when boiling stir in the Orange-juice and grated peel. Continue stirring until reduced to a thick syrup, then turn it out and leave until cold. It is then ready for use. Imitation Orange-juice.—Put loz. of citric acid and 1 drachm of carbonate of potash into a basin, pour over lqt. oi water, and let them dissolve; pour the liquor over the peel of half an Orange, and let it stand until it is suffi- ciently flavoured. Sweeten to taste with honey or white sugar, and it is ready for use. In place of the Orange- peel, 5 or 6 drops of the oil of Orange-peel, mixed with jj fluid ounce of tincture of Orange-peel, may be used. Imitation Syrup of Red Oranges of Malta. Put lqt. of nlain syrup into a bottle and add I toz. of cherry juice, Oranges—continued. loz. of essence of curafoa (which must be quite fresh and pure, otherwise the quality of the syrup will be spoilt), and lastly, \oz. of citric acid. Shake the bottle now and then, and in a day or so the syrup will be ready for use. The essence of curafoa should contain ‘2oz. of oil in each pint. The syrup should be used shortly after being made, as it is liable to change its flavour considerably by being kept. Oranges a la Franqaise.—(1) Cut six Oranges into halves, remove all the insides, taking care not to injure the rinds; notch evenly round the edges of the rinds, and put them into cold water to soak. Squeeze out all the juice from the pulp, strain it into a saucepan, pour in water to make 1| pints in all, add l£oz. of gelatine dissolved in 1| teacupfuls of water, also 6oz. of sugar, the thin rind and juice of a lemon, and the whites and crushed shells of three eggs. Whisk well over the fire until the liquor boils, remove the whisk, put the lid on the pan, and boil gently for about ten minutes. Remove the pan front the fire, let it stand for five minutes, and strain the jelly through a jelly- bag until clear; wipe the Orange-peels perfectly dry, fill them level with the jelly, packing them in ice to keep them firm, heap up on top \ pint or so of cream beaten stiff with about 1 teaspoonful of crushed loaf sugar and a few drops of vanilla, place a sweetmeat on the top of each, and serve on a dessert-dish. (2) Cut a small piece front the top of some large Oranges, and scrape out all the inside with the aid of the handle of a spoon, taking care not to injure the rind. Put the rinds into a basin of cold water until wanted, and with the pulp prepare a clear jelly. Take out the Orange-rinds, drain them, and wipe them dry. Mix a little prepared cochineal with half the jelly, leaving the remainder clear. When the jelly is nearly cold, put in a little of the coloured and of the clear alternately until the rinds are full, allowing every layer to set before another is added. When the jelly is quite set and firm, cut the Oranges into quarters or halves with a sharp knife, place them on a dish, and serve. They may be cut into halves before the pulp is taken out, if desired, and one half filled with the coloured jelly and the other with the clear. They must then be cut into quarters before being served. (3) Pour J pint of cold water over loz. of gelatine, and let it soak for three hours. Take nine deep-coloured Oranges, cut a hole in the top of each, only just large enough to admit the bowl of an egg-spoon, and then scoop out all the pulp (being very careful not to tear the edge of the hole), and scrape out the inner skin. When the Orange- rinds are emptied, lay them in cold water. Grate the rinds from three other oranges, cut them then in halves, and squeeze the juice over the grated rinds; add it to the pulp and juice of the nine Oranges, and strain all through coarse muslin, squeezing it well so that the strained juice may be well coloured with the grated rind. Mix with this juice Hlb. of powdered white sugar, and stir till the sugar is quite dissolved, then add % saltspoonful of powdered cinnamon. Pour 1 pint of boiling water over the soaked gelatine in a saucepan, put it over the fire, and stir till it is quite dissolved ; add the juice and sugar, and stir over the fire for two or three minutes, then strain it through a jelly-bag, but do not squeeze or shake the bag. Take the Orange rinds out of the cold water, wipe them, and put them standing close together on a dish, the open ends uppermost, and fill them very full with the warmed strained jelly. Pet them stand in a very cool place all night. Next day, cut them in halves, first cutting the rinds through all round with the point of a very sharp penknife, then with a larger knife cutting right through the jelly. Pile these halves on a glass dish and garnish with green leaves. Orange and Apple Tart.—Thinly peel two Oranges, put the peel in a saucepan with a small quantity of water, boil it till tender, and then cut it into fine shreds. Peel and core ten or twelve apples, cut them into quarters, and put them into a saucepan with just sufficient water to prevent them burning. \\ hen half cooked, put Mb. of sugar in with the apples, also the peel of the Oranges and the juice. Stir the mixture over the fire till reduced to a thick paste, then take it off and leave till cold. Butter a shallow For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, tic., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.