166 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pies—continued. your knife in a slanting direction, which gives it a neat appearance; lastly, make two small holes on the top, and egg over the whole with a paste-brusli, or else use a little milk or water. Any small portion of paste remaining Fig. 216. Raised Pie. may he shaped to fanciful designs, such as leaves, &c. (see Fig. 215), and placed as ornaments on the top. “ For meat Pies observe that if your paste is either too thick or too thin, the covering too narrow or too short, and requires pulling one way or the other to make it fit, your Pie is sure to be imperfect, the covering no longer Fig. 217. Raised-pie Moulds (Adams and Son). protecting the contents. It is the same with fruit; and if the paste happens to be rather rich it pulls the rim of the Pie to the dish, soddens the paste, makes it heavy, and, therefore, indigestible as well as unpalatable.” Meat Pies require the addition of either cayenne, black pepper, or allspice; and fruit Pies, of enough sugar Fig. 218. Meat Pie in Flat-rimjied Basin. to sweeten, with mace, ginger, cloves, or lemon-peel, according to taste and the substance operated on. Raised Pies (see Fig. 216) are made in moulds (see Fig. 217), and are usually stuffed with game, pork or some other savoury meat, receipts for which are given Pies—continued. under the special headings. Meat Pies are sometimes made in round basins with flat rims (see Fig. 218), instead of the ordinary Pie-dishes, the advantage being that there is more contents in proportion to the crust. | See Paste and Pastry. Bengal Shikaree Pie.—Put four brace of partridges or grouse into a saucepan with a knuckle of ham cut into small pieces, and plenty of common stock, also seasoning to taste, and simmer gently until the birds are tender. Cut the meat from the breast of the birds, with some of the lean, ham, and leave it until cold. Boil the liquor until thickly reduced, strain it, and when cool skim off the fat. I hit the meat in a mortar with small quantities of mushroom powder, chopped lemon-peel, allspice, and salt and pepper to taste, and pound it until smooth. Cut a pheasant and two brace of partridges into nice-sized pieces, put them into a stewpan with the above liquor, and stew them gently until tender. Make a raised pie- crust, and when the game is cold, fill the crust with alternate layers of game and the pounded meat, com- mencing with a layer of game and finishing with a layer of forcemeat. Pour in some of the gravy, place the cover on the Pie, and bake it in a good oven. When cooked, lift the cover carefully oft' the Pie, pour in the remainder of the gravy, and replace the cover. Keep the Pie in a cool larder until the following day, when it may be served. Brazilian Pie.—Boil 31b. or 41b of potatoes, and when cooked mash them with 4oz. of butter and a little salt. Cut a loin of mutton in small pieces, put them into a saute-pan with some chopped parsley, butter, pepper, and salt, and saut6 them. Put the cutlets into a pie-dish, with slices of raw ham on the top, and pour in ( pint of rich brown gravy. Cover the pie with the mashed potatoes, and bake it for two hours in a moderate oven. When cooked, serve the Pie. Camp Pie.—Cut up and mince some cold mutton or other meat very fine, add pepper, salt, and finely-chopped onion, put these into a Pie-dish, mix with it a little gravy flavoured with ketchup or Worcestershire sauce, or both, and cover with a thick layer of mashed potatoes mixed with a little butter, and seasoned with salt and pepper. Bake in the oven or in a Dutch oven before the fire. Eccles Pies.—Stone lib. of raisins and chop them very fine; mix with them Mb. of chopped citron-peel, 1 break- fast-cupful of moist sugar, the strained juice of one lemon, and a little water. Put them in a saucepan and boil them for five minutes. Butter some small patty-pans, line them with puff paste, fill them with the fruit pre- paration, cover them with the paste, and trim round the edges, moistening and pinching them together. Bake them in a quick oven. When cooked, arrange the Pies on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a dish, sprinkle caster sugar over them, and serve. Goblet Pie.—Chop 2oz. of any kind of lean meat with 2oz. of beef suet, and mix with them 2oz. of stoned and chopped raisins, 2oz. of washed and dried currants, and two moderate-sized apples that have been peeled, cored, and cut into thin slices. Butter the edges of a pie-dish, and line it with thin strips of short-paste; put in the mixture with 2oz. of moist sugar, and cover with a flat of the paste. Moisten and press the edges together, trimming them off neatly, and make a small incision in the top of the crust. Bake the Pie for lialf-an-hour, and serve either hot or cold. Italian Pie.—Make a well of about Hlb. of flour, and break into it the yolks of two eggs and the white of one. Add 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, and work this in, moistening with tepid water until a still' paste is made. Knead this thoroughly and roll it out several times, fold- ing up again after each rolling. Diride the paste into two or three portions, and then roll each out very thinly, cutting out flats of it to fit a small tin. Lay these in with butter between. Just before putting this into the oven to bake, mark round with a sharp knife a part to be removed, and when the crust is baked remove the piece. Hollow out the interior to the last flat, and fill the Pie with savoury forcemeat or stewed fruits.