TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 81 Oysters—continued. and let them soak for thirty minutes or so. Take them out, squeeze, put them in a cloth and wring out all the moisture; place them in a saucepan with loz. of butter, sprinkle with a little salt, and stir well over a moderate fire until the mixture does not stick to the pan. Put two dozen Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, scald them, take them out, drain, cut off the beards, and put them into a mortar with l£oz. of the prepared panada, pound them to a pulp and mix in the yolks of three eggs and loz. of butter. When these are incorporated, pass them through a fine sieve into a basin and stir in 1 teacupful of the Oyster liquor and the same of well-whipped cream. Sprinkle in cayenne and salt to taste, and add a little lemon-juice and the whites of two eggs whipped to a white froth. Stir lightly, pour it into a buttered souffle-mould, cover the top with a piece of well-buttered paper, put the mould in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and steam for thirty minutes. When done, turn the souffle out on to a dish, pour some Oyster sauce over it, and serve. (2) Put the flesh from two whitings into a mortar, pound it to a pulp, and pass it through a fine sieve. Cut a dozen blanched Oysters into quarters. Put loz. of butter into a saucepan, and when it has melted mix in 2oz. of flour, stir well, add 1 teacupful of strained Oyster liquor, and continue stirring until the liquor becomes quite thick. Pour this mixture into the whiting puree, turn it back into the mortar, pound well, and add three eggs, one at a time, and a little salt and cayenne to taste. When these are mixed, add the Oysters and 1 teacupful of well-whipped cream. Butter a souffle-mould, pour in the mixture, put the mould in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, and cook for thirty minutes. When done, turn it out on to a dish, pour over some Oyster sauce, and serve. Oyster Soup.—(1) Blanch two or three dozen Oysters in their own liquor, beard them, and cut them into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter in a saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour and mix them well over the fire, then stir in as much fish stock as will make the required quantity of soup. Continue stirring until boiling, then put in the Oysters and their liquor, previously strained, add a moderate quantity of minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a little grated nutmeg. Beat the yolks of two eggs in with the juice of half a lemon and strain them, move the soup off' the fire, and stir in the beaten eggs. Pour it into a soup-tureen and serve with a plate of sippets of toast or croutons of fried bread. (2) Put 3 pints each of water and milk in a lined saucepan on the fire; finely crush |lb. of soda biscuits and add them to the milk-and-water; when it boils, put in also 1 pint of finely-chopped Oysters. Boil the soup until it is well flavoured with the Oysters, then add 3 pints of whole Oysters and 4oz. of butter, season to taste with salt and pepper, let the soup simmer gently for ten minutes longer, then turn it into a soup-tureen and serve while very hot. (3) Put 31b. of knuckle of veal or leg of lamb in a saucepan with 3qts. of water and a lump of salt, and let it simmer gently for three liours. At the end of that time skim the soup and strain it into the saucepan with lqt. of Oysters that have been freed of their beards and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of crushed biscuits; season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it up again. Then add l|oz. of butter in small pieces, pour the soup into a soup- tureen, and serve while very hot. (4) Wash lqt. of Oysters in water to free them of grit, put them into a saucepan with two slices of bacon cut into small pieces, and pour over the strained Oyster liquor. Add a little parsley, thyme, and chopped onions, with salt and pepper to taste, boil slowly, and when nearly done, stir in loz. of butter rolled in flour and 1 teacupful of cream. Turn the soup out into a soup-tureen, and serve. (5) Put lqt. of stock in a saucepan on the fire and the same quantity of milk in another saucepan. Place lqt. of Oysters in a colander over a third saucepan, let them drain, and when the stock boils pour a little over the Oysters, stir them well in it, and then let it drain off. Put the pan containing the Oyster liquor on the fire, and when the liquor boils skim, and strain it into the stock. Oysters—continued. Add the Oysters to the stock, boil until they begin to shrink, and then remove the pan to the side of the fire and stir in a little more than 2 table-spoonfuls of crushed crackers, 1 teaspoonful each of salt and pepper, and lastly the quart of boiling milk. Pour the soup at once into a soup-tureen, and serve with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over the top. (6) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of cornflour into a basin and work it to a smooth paste with a little milk. Put 1 pint of white stock into a saucepan with 1 teacupful of cream, salt and pepper to taste, add the cornflour, and put the pan on the side of the fire. As soon as the stock com- mences to simmer throw in a dozen large Oysters with their liquor and simmer gently for a few minutes, when it will be done and ready for use. (7) Prepare 2qts. of fish stock with flounders or eels, and flavour it with mace, parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an onion stuck with three cloves. Strain and beard six dozen Oysters; put the yolks of ten hard-boiled eggs in a mortar and pound them to a smooth paste. Strain the fish stock, and pour it in a saucepan with the strained liquor of the Oysters and the pounded yolks. Boil the soup gently for half-an-liour, then put in the Oysters and the well-beaten yolks of six raw eggs; stir quickly till smooth, but do not let it boil again. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot. (8) Boil lgall. of Oysters in their liquor until quite done. Add lqt. of rich milk, the yolks of four eggs, 2 good table-spoonfuls of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of flour, all mixed well together, but in this order: first the milk, then, after beating the eggs, add a little of the hot liquor to them gradually, and stir them rapidly into the soup ; l&stly add the butter and seasoning, such as plain pepper and salt, to taste, celery sal-t, marjoram, and thyme or mace and a bit of onion may be used for flavouring. (9) Put two dozen Oysters at the bottom of a soup- tureen, and dust them over thickly with dried parsley and powdered cracknels. Prepare the soup as follows: Put lgall. of white broth into a saucepan, add a little vege- table stock, bring it to the boil, thicken with potato-flour moistened with milk, stir in a little each of cayenne and powdered mace, boil for two or three minutes longer, turn the soup at once into the tureen, and serve. (10) Put the crumb of four French rolls in a saucepan of water over the fire with four onions peeled and cut up small, 1 teaspoonful of whole white pepper, and three or four blades of mace. Boil the bread till the onions are soft, then pick out the spices, rub the bread and onions through a hair sieve, and put it with 3qts. of well-seasoned veal stock into a saucepan over the fire. Rub 1 table- spoonful of flour into 3oz. of butter, put it into a small bowl, and blend it with a little of the soup taken out of the saucepan (about 1 breakfast-cupful will be enough), and then stir it into the soup over the fire ; when it has boiled for ten or twelve minutes, add fifty Oysters with their liquor and let them boil slowly for a-quarter-of-an- hour. Taste the soup, and if the liquor of the Oysters has not made it salt enough, add salt to it. Pour it into a tureen, and serve. (11) Cut about 2oz. of fat pork into small squares and fry them until lightly browned. Put 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour and stir them over the fire until mixed ; pour in slowly 1 qt. of milk, add the pieces of pork, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and, if liked, a few drops of essence of anchovies. Stir the soup over the fire until boiling and thickened, then put in two dozen Oysters and keep them simmering for a minute or two. Turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve with a plate of croutons fried in butter. (12) Free lqt. of Oysters from bits of shell, and strain off their liquor; add to the liquor 1 pint of milk and suffi- cient water to increase the quantity to about 2qts., place the milk-and-Oyster liquor over the fire, season it with salt and white or red pepper, let it boil for a moment, and remove any scum that may rise. Meantime, beat four eggs till smooth together with h pint of milk, and strain them. After the scum has all been removed from the soup, put into it the Oysters and the eggs-and-milk, and stir For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.