TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 31 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, See., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. bergamot, and the shaddock, all of which differ in many particulars from the Orange. This fruit, which derives its title from the golden colour of its rind, finds its way into our markets as varieties of two special kinds— the one sweet, and the other bitter; the first being known as the Portugal or China Orange, and the other as the Seville, Spanish, or Bigarade Orange. Both of these are believed to be natives of Northern India, taking their parentage from a tree that grows wild in Sikkim, Ghurwal, and Khashya; however that may be, the fruit is now commonly grown throughout the tropics of both hemispheres. In Europe its limit crosses the northern part of Spain and the extreme south of Provence, traverses Italy a little above Florence, descends nearly to Greece, I and, passing Cyprus, enters Asia. Throughout the Medi- terranean basin and the Azores, Orange-culture flourishes, j Western Africa has recently taken up the industry. China and Japan produce some of the choicer varieties, amongst which the Mandarin is found. In several of the Australian Colonies, and in Fiji, the culture is well established; the West Indies are now producing very large quantities; and the Gulf States, California, Mexico, and Brazil, are rapidly pushing the industry. Oranges were unknown in Europe in the eleventh century, but were shortly afterwards introduced westward by the Moors. The Crusaders in the thirteenth century found citrons, Oranges, and lemons very abundant in Palestine, and after that these fruits became common in Europe. Of the varieties of the Sweet Orange (see Fig. 43), the best known to us is the China or ordinary Orange, which needs no description. The Blood-red or Malta Orange Fig. 43. Sweet Orange. has the fruit round, rough, red, or reddish-yellow out- side, with a pulp irregularly mottled with crimson. The St. Michael’s Orange has the fruit rather small, pale yellow, and seedless, with a thin rind and a very sweet pulp; it is one of the most delicious kinds known. The Noble or Mandarin Orange (see Fig. 44) is small, flattened, and deep orange, with a thin rind, which separates spontaneously from the pulp, so that when quite ripe the latter may be shaken about inside; it is exceedingly rich and sweet. In China, where this delicious variety has been raised, the fruit is chiefly consumed in presents to the Mandarins, hence its name. It is now, however, very successfully cultivated in Malta and in the Azores. The Tangerine of America is a descendant of the Mandarin. The sweet-skinned Orange is the Pomme d’Adam, or “Forbidden Fruit” of the shops of Paris, but not of Oranges—continued. London; its skin is smooth, deep yellow, with a thick, sweet, soft rind. “ The common Seville, or Bitter Orange, or Bigarade {Citrus Bigaradia),” says Lindley, “has a round dark fruit with an uneven, rugged, extremely bitter rind. This sort is largely imported for the manufacture of bitter tinctures, and the preparation of the candied Orange-peel. To this Fig. 44. Mandarin Oranges. section are referred the various kinds of Bigarades, among which may be named the Horned, Curled-leaved, Purple, Double-flowered, and Myrtle-leaved. These, especially the Horned and Curled-leaved, are cultivated chiefly for their flowers, which are powerfully fragrant. Oranges are capable of being adapted to many culinary purposes, as the following receipts will show ; the Seville being preferred for cooking, as having the stronger flavour ; but the Sweet Orange answers for many dishes equally well, when the Bitter Orange cannot be obtained. When the Bitter Orange is prescribed, it should be used if possible. Bigarade Sauce.—(1) Pare off the rinds of two Seville Oranges, cut them up into small pieces, and boil in a saucepan of water for about five minutes, then take them out and drain. Put a little butter into a saucepan over the fire, and when it melts stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour and cook until it browns. Pour in 1 teacupful of broth, add the juice of the two Oranges, a little sugar, and salt and pepper to taste ; put in the pieces of rind, boil up quickly, pour it into a sauceboat, and serve. (’2) Put the rind of half a Seville Orange and a little lemon-peel and sugar into a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cup- ful of Spanish sauce, and boil gently for twelve minutes or so. Strain off the liquor into a basin, and add the juice of half a lemon, a little Orange-juice, and 1 gill of claret. \\ arm it up without boiling, put in a little cayenne, turn it out into a sauceboat, and serve. This sauce is a very good accompaniment to wild fowls. (3) Cut the rind off two sound bitter Oranges, keeping it quite thin but of equal thickness. Blanch it, put it into a saucepan with 1 pint of reduced Spanish sauce, and add a little sugar, and salt and pepper to taste. Warm it up until the peel is tender, and a few minutes pre- vious to serving add the juice of an Orange and a little iemon-juice. (4) Put the thinly-pared rinds of two bitter Oranges in a saucepan with water to cover and boil them tid soft. Dram the pieces of peel, cut-them into fine strips, and put them m a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of clear o-ravy 1 wineglassful of white wine. Squeeze in the juice of the tu-0 Oranges, with a small quantity of lemon-juice.