22 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Omelets—continued. spoonful of whipped cream, and mix well with the spatula. Make a sweet Omelet with twelve eggs, fold over the side opposite to the handle of the pan, pour the mixture into the centre, fold the other side over, and turn the Omelet out on to a hot dish. Sprinkle the top with 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar, glaze the Omelet with a hot shovel or Fig. 27. Omelet Celestine. salamander, and decorate it with some lady’s fingers cut into halves, also 1 teacupful of whipped cream, the latter poured into a paper funnel and piped over in any design. See Fig. 27. Omelet with. Fine Herbs.—Break two eggs into a basin, mix in a shallot, a little each of thyme, marjoram, basil, chervil, and parsley, and sprinkle in a very little pepper. Melt loz. of butter in a pan on the fire, tossing the latter so as to let the butter go all over it, and taking care that it does not burn; when it is at boiling-point, pour in the Omelet mixture and fry to a golden brown. Omelet Souffle.—(1) An Omelet sou file is one of the most delicious of hot sweets. It is not difficult to make when its principles are understood, and yet it is seldom well made by inexperienced cooks. The true Omelet souffle contains only eggs, sugar, and the chosen flavouring; and a tin-lined copper souffle-pan, or a thick enamelled metal dish, which will quickly heat and remain hot for some time after being taken from the oven, is required for cooking it. Spread the pan with cold butter, and see that the oven is quite hot before the Omelet is made. Put the yolks of three eggs, 6 piled table-spoonfuls of powdered loaf sugar, and 1 teaspoonful of any flavouring essence or cordial into a quart bowl, and beat them to a smooth cream ; then beat the whites of six eggs to a stiff froth, and quickly and lightly add the yolks and sugar. This part of the operation requires a quick, deft hand. The yolks should be poured on the centre of the whites, and then cut down through, rather than beaten or stirred, by holding the spoon in the right hand with the bowl outward and cutting down into the whites with its edge; an inward and upward turn of the right wrist will bring the spoon out again on the top of the whites. Itepeat this cutting down and turning motion rapidly and lightly until the Omelet is mixed; then as rapidly and lightly put the Omelet into the pan in which it is to be baked, dust it over with powdered sugar, place it in the oven, and bake until it is delicately browned (it will take about ten minutes if the oven is moderately hot). Do not begin to make the souffle until about twenty minutes before it is needed. It Fig. 28. Omelet Souffle must not be allowed to stand after it is done, but must be sent to the table directly it is taken from the oven, slipping the souffle-pan on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin. See Fig. 28. (2) Separate the whites and yolks of six eggs, put the yolks into a bowl, add to them 1 table-spoonful of arrow- root or potato-flour, 6oz. of crushed loaf sugar, and a little Omelets—continued. each of grated lemon-peel and orange-flower water. Beat well until a batter is formed, and stir in the whites whipped to a stiff froth. Melt jib. of butter in an Omelet- pan, pour the batter into it, and stir very carefully with a spoon until it begins to set firm. Turn the Omelet on to an inverted dish or plate, put it into a moderately hot oven, and bake for from ten to fifteen minutes. It is then ready for serving, and should be quite light and puffy. (3) French.—Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and continue stirring over the fire until the flour is thoroughly cooked but not dis- coloured. Pour in slowly % teacupful of boiling cream, 2 teacupfuls of boiling milk, and work it until quite smooth; remove from the fire, add the yolks of four eggs, sugar to taste, 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water, and a very little salt. Whisk the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, mix them lightly in with the batter, turn all into a souffle-dish, and bake for an hour. If is then ready for serving, and can be flavoured with maraschino, noyau, or any other desired flavouring. Omelet flavoured with Vanilla.—(1) Put the yolks of three eggs in one basin and the whites in another; mix in loz. of caster sugar and 3 or 4 drops of vanilla essence with the yolks, and whip the whites to a stiff froth. Put loz. of butter into an Omelet-pan, melt it, and make it quite hot; pour in the yolks, let them set, then put on the whipped whites, and continue to cook until the yolks are quite done. Serve hot with jam or any wine sauce. (2) Proceed as above, only masking the Omelet with jam before adding the whites. Savoury Omelet.—(1) Beat the yolks of six eggs till they are almost white, then beat the whites for the same length of time, and pour them over the yolks; add 1 dessert- spoonful of chopped mushrooms, 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs, 1 dessert spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, pepper and salt to taste, a few drops of lemon-juice, 6 table- spoonfuls of milk, and 3 teaspoonfuls of flour, and beat all well together for at least five minutes. Peel a small onion, slice it into four, and fry it in butter; when the butter is boiling hot, take out the onion and pour in the Omelet. Hold the pan over a clear fire, in rather a slanting posi- tion, to keep the Omelet from spreading, and when fried a light brown fold it over with a slice, and serve very hot. A little grated tongue may be mixed with the Omelet if liked. (2) Beat five eggs thoroughly with a fork, and season them with salt and pepper. Put 2oz. of butter int > a frying- pan, put it over the fire until hot, then pour in the eggs, and stir them until set. Raise the pan slantwise so as to slip the Omelet to the edge and give it an elongated shape, turn in the edges, leave it a moment to set, then put it on a hot dish which has been embellished with an orna- mental dish-paper, and serve. (3) Chop a raw onion very fine, and put it in a saucepan with loz. each of butter and small squares of salted pork, and slightly ccok them, adding loz. each of scraps of very finely-minced, cooked, roasted beef and ham, two finely- chopped mushrooms, and 1 pinch of chopped parsley. Stir in well 1 table-spoonful each of tomato sauce and grated breadcrumb, and season with 1 pinch of pepper and £ pinch of salt. (Make a plain Omelet with twelve eggs as described under Omelets (No. 3), fold up the side opposite the handle towards the centre, fill with the above, fold the other side over, turn it out on a hot dish, and serve. Spanish Omelet.—Put a finely-slued onion, loz. of butter, a chopped green pepper, six minced mushrooms, and one large, finely cut up tomato into a stewpan on the stove; season with \ pinch of pepper and 1 pinch of salt, adding 1 spoonful of tomato sauce, and cook for fifteen minutes. Make a plain Omelet with twelve eggs as for Omelets (No. 3), fold the farther side towards the centre, put three-quarters of the stew inside of it, fold the other side over, turn out on to a long dish, pour the rest of the sauce round, and serve. Steamed Omelet.—Put the yolks of three eggs in one basin and the whites in another, and well whisk the latter. Mix loz. of sugar with the yolks, and about one-third the quantity with the whites. Well grease a basin, pour in the yolks and