162 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to. see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. Pheasant, 1 toil the moisture of the sourcrout till reduced hy evaporation, and pour in with it some of the prepared sauce, and the oysters. Place it on a hot dish, leaving a cavity in the centre, fill it with the pork cut in slices, put the Pheasant, previously cut into six or seven pieces, on it, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and serve. Stewed Pheasant with Truffles, served Cold.—Bone a Pheasant, being careful not to break the skin, and stuff it with sliced truffles. Line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon, put in the bird, and cover it with more slices of fat bacon, moistening it with a small quantity of highly seasoned veal stock; put the lid on the pan, and keep the contents simmering very gently. When the bird is cooked, take it out of the pan and leave it until cold. When ready to serve, place it on a dish, and garnish it with croutons of aspic jelly, hard-boiled eggs that have been cut into various shapes, and sliced gherkins. PICCALILLI.—See Pickles. PICKERELS.—See Pike. PICKLE.—The name usually given in this country to the liquor in which substances used for food are soaked in order to give them certain flavours, or to assist in their preservation. These are commonly known to French cooks as Marinades, under which heading some special receipts will be found. The butcher preserves meat in Bkine, which is described under that head. The preservation of vegetables and fruit is described under Pickles, but the following receipts for the manufacture of pickling liquor used by the British cook for various purposes, will be found useful: (1) For Beep or Brawn.—Dissolve 9qts. of salt in 18galls. of water, and add 21b. of coarse brown sugar and Jib. of saltpetre. Boil and skim well. Let the beef get thoroughly cold and firm after killing, and let as much as possible of the blood drain out before putting it in the pickle. The brine should be boiled up and skimmed now and again, then it will last for many months, and suffice at one tune to pickle about half of an ordinary ox. (2) Put in a large copper pan ljlb. of common salt, Jib. of bay-salt, 6oz. of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of pepper, 1 table- spoonful of saltpetre, eight peppercorns, and lgall. of water. Stir the ingredients to thoroughly mix them, then boil them for twenty minutes, skimming them constantly. When quite cold, pour the pickle over the beef, and turn and baste it well every day for two weeks. (3) To 2galls. of water add 2Jlb. of salt, Jib. of brown sugar, and 2oz. of saltpetre. Boil it for two hours, skim- ming off all the scum as it rises. Let it get cold, and then put the meat into it. It will keep good for four or five months if boiled every month. (4) For Hams.—For a large ham allow Jib. of bay-salt, 4oz. of common salt, and loz. each of saltpetre and black pepper. Rub the ham well with this mixture, once or twice' every day for four days. At the end of that time, pom- Jib. of treacle over the ham, rubbing it well in. Leave it for a month, nibbing and turning constantly. Afterwards soak the ham in cold water for one day and night, then hang it up to dry. When cooked, the ham should be put in cold water and placed over a slow fire. (5) Put in a stone pickling pan lib. of coarse salt, lib. of brown sugar, Jib. of bay-salt, loz. of saltpetre, and loz. of salt-prunella, and mix these together; then rub it in the hams and let them lie in the pickle for a fortnight, turning and rubbing them every day. At the end of that tune, pour over the ham or hams 1J pints of hot ale, and keep it in the pickle for a month, turning it frequently. It will then be ready for smoking, or may be cooked green. (6) Mix together lib. each of coarse sugar and salt, also loz. of saltpetre. Leave the ham in this for fourteen days, rubbing well, and turning it. over daily. After- wards roll it in sawdust, and smoke for fourteen days. (7) For Pork.—Put in a boiler as much water as will Fickle—continued. well cover the pork. When it boils, mix in salt by degrees. To ascertain whether there is enough salt in the water, put an egg in, and when it floats, there is suffi- cient. Pour the brine in an earthenware jar and let it cool. It is then ready to pour over the pork. (8) For Tongue.—Crush Jib. of common salt with 2oz. of saltpetre, and mix them with lib. of treacle. When the tongue is prepared, rub it over with the above mix- ture. It should be kept in pickle for a fortnight, being turned and well rubbed occasionally. (9) For Mackerel.—For 1 pint of vinegar allow J tea- cupful of beer, three bay-leaves, Joz. of ground allspice, and Joz. each of salt and pepper, also J teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. Mix all these ingredients together and pour them over the fish. A sufficient quantity of pickle should be made to completely cover the fish. (10) For Salmon.—Mix with lqt. of the cooking liquor of the fish f pint of vinegar, four blades of mace, four bay-leaves, three pieces of whole ginger, Joz. each of black pepper and allspice, and a small quantity of salt. Boil the liquor for a little over half-an-hour, then pour it over the fish, which should be laid in a deep dish or jar, and cover it with another dish to keep the air out. FICKLES.—No other people in the world seem to have such a craving for Pickles, as the British. Kettner says of Pickles generally: “We should be sorry for those who have to eat Pickles. The craving for this condiment usually implies a sickly digestion and a jaded appetite. It also implies had cookery—being the substitute for a sauce .which the cook ought to provide.” But since Pickles we must have, it is desirable that they should be good; and it is a sad thing to chronicle that the craft of making good Pickles is departing from England. This country used to make the most wonderful mixed Pickles; and the name for them, together with the square green English bottle, has gone abroad over the earth. In the deserts of Arabia, and in the mountains of the Moon, the forlorn traveller has lighted on empty bottles of Day and Martin’s blacking and of Crosse and Blackwell’s Pickles, and his heart has rejoiced at eve, as Mungo Park did over a solitary flower in the burning wastes of Africa. The best mixed Pickles, even those of the great magicians of Soho, Crosse and Blackwell, are now made with a woebegone compound called Pic- calilli. The good old sorts are neglected; and the best English Pickles of that kind come at present from Bordeaux (from Louis Freres et Compagnie), in bottles of English shape, and with the English name of Mixed Pickles. Why is this ? One cause may be excess of competition—leading to lowering of price, cheapening of vinegar, and general deterioration. But another, and even more powerful cause, is to be found in a transition of English taste. Indian pickles—strange irrecognisable compounds con- fused with curry, an amazing jumble of hot, sweet, sour, and bitter things — have come into fashion. Manu- facturers, even those who, like Crosse and Blackwell, take the highest rank, truckling to this fashion, turn their chief skill to put an Oriental tinge on their mixed Pickles; and when they affect to produce these in all their original simplicity, they do so almost as if the old English receipt were no longer worthy of respect. The favour which has been recently shown to the French Pickles of Louis Freres et Compagnie ought to teach them a lesson. Although it is probable that some epicures may agree with Kettner, it is equally certain that the British appetite will never cease to appreciate a slice of cold meat and Pickles. A variety of Pickles are given in the following receipts, and many others will be found described under special headings; but unless made at home or by reliable firms, it must always be doubtful of what they are made, in spite of fancy names. The word Pickle is derived from a Danish word, Pekel, which is supposed to be the diminutive of tb,e word Pick or Peck, which might either refer to the