THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 154 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. arranging on a dish covered with an ornamental paper, and garnish with parsley. See Fig. 204. Fig. 204. collops of Pheasants in Cases. Consomme of Pheasant.—Remove the skin from anout lib. of the flesh of a cooked Pheasant, chop it up small, and cover it over. Meanwhile, take an onion, a leek, and half a root of celery, mince them very fine, put them into a stewpan with a little butter, and fry them, adding tire backs and bones of a Pheasant broken in pieces, and any other raw trimmings that are at hand; also add a few pieces of ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, and 3qts. or 4qts. of good broth. Put the pan on the fire, boil up the con- tents, skim it, and then put it on the side of the fire, and leave it for one-and-a-half hours. Strain it through a cloth and take off the fat. During this time put the cooked meat of the Pheasant into a mortar, pound it well, add 4 table-spoonfuls of the stock, the yolks of eight eggs, and rub it through a sieve, adding a little grated nutmeg to season it. Take a mould, put a layer of buttered paper at the bottom, butter the sides, and pour it in. Put the mould in a stewpan, and put the pan in the bain-marie to poach the contents. When thick, remove it from the fire, let it get cold, turn it out, and cut it up into squares. Put these in the soup-tureen, and pour the consomme over. Curried Pheasant.—Disjoint a Pheasant as for serving, and partially fry, so as to nicely brown it, in butter with three or four sliced onions. Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 1 table-spoonful of curry-powder and a lump of butter, put it in a stewpan, and pour in gradually 1 pint of stock, stirring it over the fire till quite smooth. Finely chop three or four apples, and mix with them an equal quantity of chopped heart of cabbage, 1 finely- minced pickled capsicum, the strained juice of one lemon, and a small quantity of salt. Put these and the fried Pheasant in the stock, add h pint of cream, and let it boil gently by the side of the fire till the meat and vegetables are done, stirring occasionally. Arrange the meat, when cooked, on a hot dish; reduce the cooking liquor by boiling, then pour it over the meat, and serve. Devilled Legs of Pheasants.—Take the legs of cold roast Pheasants, score them across four or five times, rub mustard, pepper, and a little salt into the cuts, and broil them on a hot gridiron with a piece of cold butter laid on each leg. Serve as hot as possible. Essence of Pheasant.—Put the bones and trimmings of about six Pheasants into a saucepan, having removed the flesh and put it by for other uses, such as entries, &c. Slice a small onion with two cloves, and put it in with the bones, adding also a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of madeira. Boil the mixture till reduced to a glaze, then pour in 3qts. of broth, and let it simmer for one-and-a-half hours by the side of the fire, skimming it occasionally. Strain the essence through a broth-napkin, cool it a little, then skim off the fat, and bottle it for use. Fillets of Larded (Pique) Pheasants served with Potatoes and Mushrooms.—Remove the fillets from two or three Pheasants, trim them neatly, lard and braise them. Cut some slices of cucumber, the same size as the fillets, put them into a saucepan with a little stock and h teaspoon- ful of sugar, and boil them gently till tender. Put a border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish; mix some blanched mushrooms with some jardiniere sauce, and pile it in the centre of the dish. Arrange the fillets Pheasants—continued. and slices of cucumber alternately on the potato, and serve. Fillets of Pheasants d la Financiere.—Cut the fillets off six Pheasants, trim them, and put them in a buttered saut6-pan, covering them with a sheet of buttered paper. Trim and put at each end of the minion fillets a small square of truffle, put them in a buttered saute-pan, curving them slightly, with some quenelles, fat livers, mushrooms, and truffles. Prepare a ragout, and mix them with financiere sauce. Saut6 the fillets and minion fillets. Prepare a croustade and fix it on a dish with white of egg and flour; drain the fillets and put them round it. Put the prepared ragout in the centre of the croustade, and arrange the minion fillets round the top, placing a cock’s comb in the centre. Reduce some finan- ciere sauce with essence of Pheasant, mask the fillets with it, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. Fillets of Pheasants with Brussels Sprouts.—Remove the fillets from the bones of some young Pheasants, lard them, and braise them the same way as fowls. Wash some Brussels sprouts, plunge them into boiling water, add a lump of salt, and partly cook them. Drain the sprouts, put them into a stewpan with 4oz. of streaky bacon and 1 pint of stock, season them with salt and pepper, and boil them over a moderate fire till the stock is reduced to a glaze. When the fillets of Pheasants are cooked, lay them in circular order on a hot dish. Press the sprouts in a colander, turn them into the centre of the dish, pour some game sauce round, and serve. Fillets of Pheasants Sautes a la Maintenon.—Take the fillets from two large young Pheasants and cut each into two slices, beat them lightly, season with salt and pepper, put them into a saute-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of olive-oil, and saute them over a quick fire, keeping them rather underdone. When cooked, take the fillets out and drain them. Put two chopped onions into the saute-pan and fry them till lightly browned, adding more oil if necessary; then mix in 2 table-spoonfuls each of chopped mushrooms and chopped parsley, and 1 pint of white sauce, seasoning with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and | teaspoonful of sugar. Boil the sauce till thickly reduced, stirring it at the same time; put the fillets in the sauce, move it away from the fire, and leave it till cold. Cut as many pieces of white paper as there are fillets into heart-shaped pieces, put a fillet on each, with the sauce divided equally, and wrap the papers over, twisting them well at the ends. Broil the fillets over a clear but slow fire. When cooked, put them on a hot dish, leaving then in their papers, and serve with a sauce- boatful of rich gravy. Fried Fillets of Pheasants with Cream Sauce.—Remove the fillets from four young Pheasants, trim them neatly, lard four of them, and braise them as for fowl. Finely mince some ham, and mix it with an equal quantity of grated breadcrumbs. Brush the remaining fillets over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and roll them in the mixed breadcrumbs, giving them a good coating; then put them into a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fry them till lightly browned. Meanwhile prepare the following sauce: Chop the bones of the Pheasants, put them into a saucepan with an onion, a small quantity of chopped carrot and turnip, two or three sprigs' of thyme and parsley, a bay-leaf, and 1 teacupful of white wine; stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in lqt. of bechamel sauce and 1 pint of veal stock. Reduce the sauce till thick, stirring it at the same time; then pass it through a fine hair sieve, return it to the sauce- pan with 1 teacupful of cream and 1 teaspoonful of sugar, and boil it up again. Mix some white dressed cocks’ combs with the sauce. Glaze the braised fillets, and arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, alternating them with the fried fillets; pour the sauce in the centre, and serve. Fried Fillets of Pheasants with Green Sauce.—Prepare a Pheasant, cut off the fillets from the breast, spread them over with truffle forcemeat, roll them up, fasten with