981 the encyclopaedia of practical cookery. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads, Mutton—continued. tender; take it out, remove all the bones, sprinkle with salt, put it between two plates or boards with a weight on the top, and when cold cut it into pear-shaped pieces about 3in. in length. Put them in a saute-pan with some veal stock, warm thoroughly, and glaze; place them on a dish, and serve with half-glaze poured over. Grilled Breast of Mutton.—Put a breast of Mutton into a saucepan of water and boil it. When it is about half done take it out, score it, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and rub it well over with yolk of egg; then cover it with minced fine herbs and breadcrumbs. Place it on a gridiron over a clear fire, and broil until light brown and cooked through. Put an onion, a little chopped parsley, 1 table-spoonful of capers, and four pickled cucumbers into a saucepan with 1 pint of gravy, boil them quickly for about live minutes, and add a little butter kneeded with flour to thicken it. Put the breast of Mutton on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve hot. Haricot Breast of Mutton.—Put a breast of Mutton into a braising-pan with a few slices of onions, carrots, &c., and cook until done. Take it out, remove all the bones, and when cold cut it up into shapes like hearts; warm each one separately in a little of the liquor, put them on a dish, pour over brown haricot sauce, and serve hot. Haricot Mutton.—(1) Remove the fat from the chops of a loin of Mutton, put them into a frying-pan with two onions cut into slices, and fry until the meat is a light brown. Put a little flour into a breakfast-cupful of gravy to thicken it, pour it over the meat, and cook slowly for about forty-five minutes. In the meantime, put two carrots, two turnips, and a small head of celery into a saucepan of water and partly boil them. Cut the vegetables into slices, put them into the pan with the meat, and stew gently for twenty minutes longer. Add 2 table- spoonfuls of mushroom ketchup and 1 wineglassful of port wine, boil up quickly, pour it on to a dish, and serve. (2) Cut some pieces from a breast of Mutton, put them in a saucepan with a little butter, and toss gently until they are slightly coloured; take out the meat, add a little Hour to thicken the butter, replace the meat, and add a little stock, one or two onions, a little thyme and parsley, salt and pepper to taste, a bay-leaf, a little grated nutmeg, and a few peeled potatoes. Put the pan on the side of the fire, and cook gently until done ; skim carefully, pour the whole on to a dish, and serve. (3) Cut a neck or loin of Mutton into thin chops, trim off a good part of the fat and flour them; melt about Joz. of butter in a stewpan over the fire, shake in a little pepper and salt, and fry the chops in it, turning them once till they are slightly browned. Then put into the stewpan an onion or two, a small quantity of celery, and some slices of boiled turnips and carrots fried. Cover the bottom of the pan with the fried Mutt( n, over the Mutton put a layer of the fried turnip and carrot, and if there is more Mutton than will cover the bottom of the pan lay another layer over the carrots and turnips, and cover it with more fried slices of turnip and carrot. When all is in, pour hi sufficient water to cover the meat, and let it stew very gently for three hours. Just before serving season the haricot with a small quantity of ketchup or Worcestershire sauce. (4) Cut some thin cutlets from the middle cf a loin or neck of Mutton, hour them, put them into a stewpan, and fry brown in a little butter; pour off the butter, add lqt. of boiling water, an anchovy, pepper and salt to taste, a few slices of carrots and turnips, and let it simmer gently for two-hours-and-a-half. Fifteen minutes before serving, thicken it with flour and butter. (5) Cut off eight or ten cutlets from a neck of Mutton, leaving the bones short and removing a part of the fat, and fry them in a small quantity of butter; when well browned, add 1 table-spoonful of flour, mix it well in, and pour in lqt. of water. Cnt one or two turnips and carrots into rather small pieces, put them with a few spring onions into a frying-pan in which a little sugar and butter have been melted, add a little parsley and two bay-leaves, toss them over the lire for a few minutes, put Mutton—continued. them into the stewpan with the cutlets, and simmer gently until all are done, taking care to remove the scum as it rises. Arrange the cutlets in a circle on a dish, put the vegetables in the centre, pour over the liquor, and serve. (6) Cut off' some of the end bones, trim the cutlets neatly, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and brown slightly on both sides; take the cutlets out, put in the same stewpan 1 table-spoonful of flour and loz. of butter, and stir them over the fire until mixed and browned, then pour in sufficient veal gravy to cover the cutlets, season it highly, and stir until boiling. Put the cutlets into the sauce with a few turned turnips, a bunch of parsley and green onions, and stew them gently until nearly tender. When cooked, place the cutlets in the centre of a hot dish, garnish round with the turnips, strain the sauce over them, and serve. (7) Trim the cutlets from a neck of Mutton to a nice shape, put their trimmings in a stewpan with a few slices of carrots and onions, a bunch of green onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs; put in the cutlets, moisten to about half their height with white stock, place the lid on the stew- pan, and stew them gently at the side of the fire, or over a very slow fire. Cut about a dozen small peeled turnips into the shape of olives, blanch and drain them, put them in a stewpan with 4 teacupful of white stock and 1 tea- spoonful of sugar, and place over a very brisk fire until all the moisture has reduced and the turnips are nicely glazed; they should be constantly tossed about. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, pour over the turnips 1 teacupful of bechamel sauce and \ teacupful of thick cream, season with a small quantity of salt, and let them simmer gently. When the cutlets are tender, take them out of the pan, strain their cooking-liquor through a fine sieve, and boil quickly until reduced to a glaze, then put in the cutlets, and cover them with the glaze on both sides. Arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce of turnips in the centre, and serve while very hot. Hashed Mutton.—(1) Chop an onion, put it in a stewpan with a lump of butter and fry until nicely browned, then mix in 1 heaped table spoonful of flour and stir in about £ pint of clear stock, 1 table-spoonful of vinegar, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of mixed spices. Stir the sauce over the fire until boiling, then strain it through a gravy-strainer and leave until cold. Cut some cold Mutton into thin slices, trimming off' the skin and not leaving too much fat; put them into a stewpan with a few sliced pickled gherkins, pour in the sauce, and leave it to heat gradually at the edge of the fire. When ready, turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets Fig. 1224. Hashed Muiton. of toast or croutons of bread fried a golden brown in butter (see Fig. 1224), and serve with a dish of mashed potatoes. (2) Cut the remains of some cold roast Mutton into neat thin slices without much fat; peel and slice two or three onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry until nicely browned. Drain the butter off the onions, pour over them about 1 breakfast-cupful of clear gravy freed of fat, and boil gently for a few minutes. Next put in the meat with some lemon pickle and a moderate quan- tity of walnut ketchup: colour the gravy with browning, season to taste with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and let the whole* simmer at the side of the lire for five minutes. When ready, turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish with red cabbage, and serve. (3) Peel and slice two moderate-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with two or three thin rashers of bacon, and fry until well browned. Dredge in some flour, mix in