995 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. consistency, keeping it well -skimmed and seasoning with a very small quantity of scraped garlic. Pour the sauce round the Mutton, and serve. The garlic may he omitted. Necks of Mutton with Vegetables.—Trim the scrags off two necks of Mutton, remove the chine-hones, and lard the lean meat with hacon. Cover some thick sheets of paper with slices of onions, carrots, and turnips, also a few sprigs of thyme and parsley and three or four hay-leaves, place the necks on the vegetables, and wrap the paper round them. Fix them on a spit and roast in front of a clear lire, hasting continually. When nearly cooked, remove the paper and vegetables from the necks. In the meantime, prepare and boil separately in white stock a sufficient quantity of small onions, carrots, turnips, a cauliflower, and a small hunch of asparagus; boil and mash a few pounds of potatoes, fill a border-mould with some, and keep it hot in a bain-marie. Place the necks of Mutton on a hot dish, fill up the gaps between them with mashed potatoes, and turn the border of potatoes round the dish. Break the branches of the cauliflower apart, and arrange them tastefully with the other vegetables on the dish. Glaze the Mutton, pour a thin glaze over the vegetables, and serve. If arranged carefully and with taste, this dish can be made to look very pretty; the vegetables should be placed so that the colours form. a good contrast. Oxford John.—Select a leg of Mutton that is well hung and rather high; cut it into eollops as thin as possible, removing all the sinews. Sprinkle them over with mace, minced shallots, parsley, and thyme, salt and pepper to taste, and put them in a saucepan with 3oz. of butter. Stir them well over a slow fire until done, and add the juice of a lemon, 1 breakfast-cupful of gravy, and thicken with a little butter Fig. 1234. Oxford John. rolled in flour. Put the pan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for five minutes or so. Take them out, put them on a dish, and serve with a garnish of pieces of fried bread. See Fig. 1234. Pot-Pourri of Mutton.—Bone a leg of Mutton without cutting it open, and lard it inside with small strips of fat bacon and ham. Sew it up to form a round, put it in a basin, sprinkle over salt and pepper, add a few sweet herbs, peppercorns, and cloves, and pour over 1 pint of burgundy wine; cover the basin with a cloth and let it remain in a cool place for four hours or so. Cover the bottom of an earthenware stockpot with a few layers of bacon, put the leg of Mutton on them, and surround it with a few onions, four large carrots cut in pieces, and lib. of pork-rinds blanched and cut in squares. Pour over the liquor, &c., from the marinade, cover over the pot with a piece of paper first and then a plate half-full of water, put the pot on tiie fire, boil up the contents, and then remove it to some hot ashes, surrounding it to half its height. It requires to boil gently and keep at the same temperature while cooking. When it is done, take it out, drain, and put it on a dish with the vegetables, &c., placed round it. Skim off all the fat from the cooking- stock, strain it, pour it over, and serve. Potted Mutton. — Chop up some cold cooked Mutton, remove all the skin and sinew, and pound it in a mortar with half its bulk of cooked bacon. Sprinkle over a little allspice, salt and pepper to taste, and put it into a jar in a sauce- pan of water and boil until the mass is warmed quite through. Take out the jar, stir frequently until the meat is nearly cold, squeeze it into small pots, let them remain Mutton—continued. for a day, then cover with clarified butter or hot mutton- suet so as to exclude all air. Rechauffe of Mutton.—(1) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan over the lire, and when it is melted add 1 table-spoonful of flour: stir continually until it is smooth, and add gradually 1 breakfast-cupful of stock and 2 table- spoonfuls of glaze. Boil gently for a minute and add the yolks of two eggs, season with salt and pepper, add 1 table- spoonful of lemon-juice, and remove it at once from the fire. Cut some cold cooked Mutton into slices about 4in. thick, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and when the mixture is cool dip them in it so as to cover both sides; roll them in breadcrumbs, and then dip them into the whites of three eggs and the yolk of one well beaten together, and lastly into breadcrumbs again. Put them into a frying-pan of boiling fat and fry for two minutes. Drain them well on paper, put them on a dish, pour some tomato or hollandaise sauce over, and serve. A little of the fat should lie cut off if there is too much. (2) Cut any cold Mutton into slices, rub a dish over with garlic, butter it thickly, lay. the slices of meat on it, sprinkle over a few finely-chopped mushrooms, moisten with a little white wine arid stock in equal quantities, season with salt and pepper, strew thickly with finely- grated breadcrumb, place a few pieces of butter about on the top, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When ready, serve the meat in the dish in which it was cooked, while very hot. (3) Cut any cold Mutton into slices about 4in. thick, and trim them as near as possible to the same shape. Season some grated breadcrumb with powdered sweet herbs, salt, and pepper; dip the pieces of meat first in well-beaten egg and then in the seasoned crumbs, giving them a good coating, leave them for an hour or two, then egg-and- breadcrumb them again. Melt a large lump of lard or clarified fat in a flat stewpan, put in the pieces of meat, and fry them until nicely browned; then drain, place them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of tomato or any other sauce. (4) Peel and slice as thinly as possible a moderate-sized onion, and fry it in butter until nicely browned; dredge over with flour, and pour in 4 pint of warm water. Stir over the fire until boiling and thickened, flavour with Worcestershire or any sauce liked, and colour with burnt- sugar colouring. Cut the cold Mutton into nice-shaped pieces, put them in a stewpan, and strain the sauce over them. Stew very gently at the edge of the fire until the meat is very hot, then turn the hash on to a hot dish, garnish with crofttons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Red Mutton Stew (Turkish).—Cut some leg of Mutton into small pieces; wash them, put them into a saucepan with salt and pepper and sufficient water to cover, and boil till tender. Scald 1 breakfast-cupful of chick-peas, put them in with the meat, skimming the liquor, and boil them till tender. Slice three onions, fry them in butter till brown, then add them to the stew. Put some slices of toast at the bottom of a hot dish, pour the stew over, and serve. Roasted, Boned, and Stuffed Leg of Mutton.—(1) The principal difficulty in accomplishing this dish is the boning; this must be done with a very sharp knife. Commence on the under-side of the joint, passing the knife under the skin until exactly over the bone, then cut down to it; pass the knife round close to the bone right up to the socket, remove the large bone of the thickest end of the leg, seeing the meat is clear of the bone, draw out the remaining bones which will come away easily, and stuff the cavity with highly-seasoned forcemeat. Fasten the knuckle end tightly over, replace the bone at the base of the joint, and sew it in. Put it in front of a clear fire, baste well until done, and serve with gravy. (2) Take a leg of Mutton weighing about 71b., bone it, and fill the cavity with some veal stuffing mixed with about 3oz. of ham or bacon. Sew up the hole to prevent the forcemeat coming out, tie the leg round with string, and put it before a clear fire to roast. When done (it 4 C 2