THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 138 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. caster sugar, and set them in a cool place. Rub |lb. of butter in fib. of flour, make a hollow in the centre, then pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of ice water, and mix it up soft. Sprinkle a little flour over a paste-board, and roll the paste out on it, folding and rolling it out three or four times to make it flaky; gather the paste into a lump, let it stand five minutes, then roll it out to about fin. in thickness, and bake it on a baking-sheet. Split the cake in two when baked, spread some of the Peaches and sugar on the lower half, put the top on, the split side upwards, and spread more Peaches and sugar over that; put it on a dish, and serve with cream. Peach Sponge.—Strain the juice from a tin of preserved Peaches and pass the fruit through a fine hair sieve, then beat it up with the juice and a small quantity of caster sugar. Put loz. of isinglass in a basin with J pint of cream, let it steep for some tune, then stand the basin in a stewpan containing boiling water, and stir the con- tents until the isinglass has dissolved. Mix the fruit pulp with the cream and stir it, out of the water, until nearly cold. Whisk the whites of three eggs to a stiff' froth, stir them in with the cream, and pile it up high in the centre of a glass dish. Select several small thickly - berried sprays of holly, and brush each leaf carefully over with a strong solution of gum Arabic, strew caster sugar over, and leave them until dry. Arrange the sprays of holly round the sponge, and serve. Peach Spongeade.—Peel and stone sufficient ripe Peaches to make If pints of pulp. Pass them through a fine hair sieve, put it in a basin with the whites of six eggs, not whipped, and If pints of syrup at 38 deg. (see Syrups) ; pass the preparation through the fine hair sieve into the freezer (see Ices), and work it till frozen. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of maraschino with a little syrup, then mix it in gradually with the spongeade. Serve the spongeade in ice-glasses. Peach Sweetmeats.—Dissolve lib. of brown sugar in 1 pint of water and clarify it with an egg. Wipe 21b. of Peaches, put them in a lined pan with the sugar and boil, skimming off' the egg as it rises to the top. The Peaches should not be peeled if done whole; but previously put in a little boiling water and boiled, then taken out and wiped dry. Peach Syrup.—Select some perfectly ripe Peaches, split them and remove the stones, then put them into a mortar and pound. Keep the pulp for about twenty-four hours, in a temperature between 70 and 80degs., stirring occasionally and pressing it. Strain the juice from the pulp, leave it for twelve hours, then weigh it, and for every pound of the juice, mix in loz. of Cologne spirit or deodorized alcohol; leave it for twelve horns longer, then filter the juice through paper. For each pound of the filtered juice, use 1 lib. of preserving sugar, and put them together in a syrup-boiler, stir them over the fire till on the point of boiling. Remove the syrup from the fire, skim well, and bottle it, first rinsing the bottles with a small quantity of Cologne spirit. Peach Tart.—(1) Line a pie-dish with puff paste, put twelve half Peaches at the bottom, dust over with 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of caster sugar, pour over \ wineglassful of any white -wine; over this put six chopped apples, and 1 break- fast-cupful of rich custard flavoured with noyau, cover with more paste, put a piece of paper over that, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, spread over the top with two well-whipped whites of eggs, mixed with 1 table- spoonful of caster sugar; over this arrange preserved cherries and imitation leaves cut out of angelica, arranging them according to fancy. Place the pie in the oven for a few minutes so as to set the egg, and it is then ready for serving, or may be served cold. (2) Wipe on a cloth eight or ten good-sized Peaches, cut them into slices, put them in a basin with 4oz. of powdered sugar, and let them remain for some time. Line a pie-dish with paste, spread over a little apple preserve, place the Peaches over it, moisten the edges of the tart with beaten egg, put a rim of paste round, brush this over with more egg, and bake in a moderate oven for about Peaches—continued. fifty minutes. Sprinkle over a little more sugar, glaze it in the oven, spread over a little sweet jelly, and serve hot or cold as desired. Peach Tartlets.—(1) Sift lib. of flour through a fine sieve on to a table, make a hollow in the centre, and put in fib. of butter, broken in little bits, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 pinch of salt, the yolks of three eggs, and a little water, and work them gradually together. Line a dozen or more buttered tartlet-moulds with the prepared paste, put a thin layer of apple marmalade on the bottom of each and half fill them with rice boiled in milk; cover each with paper and bake in a moderate oven. When baked, take the tartlets out of the oven and leave them for ten minutes; then spread in a layer of marmalade, fill up the spaces with rice that has been boiled and mixed with cream, and put half a preserved Peach on each round side upward. Squeeze some meringue through a biscuit- forcer in little beads between the paste and Peaches, sprinkle caster sugar over, and put them in a slow oven for ten or twelve minutes. Reduce the Peach syrup, take the Fig. 185. Peach Tartlets. tartlets out of the oven, dip a paste-brush in the syrup, and brush the Peaches over with it. Arrange them in a group on a dish covered with an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 185), and serve. (2) Take lib. of puff paste, roll it out 12in. long by 8in. wide, cut out six pieces with a paste-cutter, and arrange them neatly on six scalloped tart moulds, each 31in. wide. Take each mould in the hand, and with the thumb press the paste gently at the bottom and sides so as to give it the perfect shape of the mould, but avoid pressing the paste on the edge, so that in baking it will swell and rise. Divide 3oz. of apple marmalade into six equal parts, and fill the bottom of the tarts with it; then wipe six good- sized Peaches, peel and cut them into six pieces, arrange them over the marmalade in the tarts, sprinkle over 2oz. of powdered sugar, lay them on a baking-sheet, put them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, draw them to the door, and sprinkle the edges lightly with powdered sugar, then leave them in the closed oven for two minutes to allow the sugar to melt thoroughly. Remove them from the fire, put in a cool place for twenty minutes, then spread evenly over the Peaches l£oz. of apple jelly. Dress the tartlets on a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. (3) Peel and stone some ripe juicy Peaches. Cut them into small pieces, dredge over sufficient powdered white sugar to sweeten well, and let them stand till the juice mns from them. Make some puff paste, line some medium- sized patty-pans with it, bake them, and let them get cold. Crack half the Peach stones, blanch the kernels, and add them to the Peaches; put the Peaches over the fire in a saucepan together with the sugar, the blanched kernels, and their own juice, and let them stew till soft, then take them from the fire and mash them. When both fruit and pastry-shells are quite cold, mix some cream with the stewed Peaches and fill the pastry-shells with them. Dredge powdered white sugar over the tops, and serve. (4) Butter twelve tartlet-moulds and line them with short paste. Boil some rice, mix some cream with it, flavour with a few drops of essence of vanilla, and put a layer of it in each of the moulds. Bake them, and when done, take them out and fill them with the rice and cream. Peel some Peaches, cut them in halves, and boil them in a little syrup. Drain the Peaches, and put half a one on each tartlet; boil the syrup till reduced, then mask the