THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 105 For details respecting Culinary ProcessesUtensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. with a tin cutter 2in. in diameter, and roll them in beaten egg and grated breadcrumb. Mark a circle on the top of each patty with a smaller cutter, and fry them in boiling lard until nicely browned. When fried, drain the patties, Fig. 121. Partridge Patties. lift off the cover round the marked circle, and scoop out some of the inside with the handle of a spoon. Fill each patty with the puree, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve while very hot. See Fig. 121. Partridge Pie.—(1) Singe, draw, and clean three Partridges, put them in a frying-pan with a little butter, season them well, and fry lightly. Line the inside of a pie-dish with some veal cutlet, and over that put a slice of bacon, a little chopped parsley, and two chopped mushrooms. Cut the Partridges in halves, put them in, and place two more chopped mushrooms and a little chopped parsley over; cut some hard-boiled eggs in halves, put them on the top, and pour in J pint of gravy. Put a strip of puff paste round the edge of the dish, place a cover of the paste on the top, damp the edges of the paste slightly, and press them together; dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush the top of the pie over with it, and make a small hole in the centre. Put it in a hot oven with a piece of paper on the top to prevent it browning too much, and bake it for an hour. Serve either hot or cold. (2) Butter an oval pie-mould, Sin. long, and line it with short paste, raising the paste Jin. above the top of the mould. Clean and bone sufficient young Partridges to fill the mould, lard them with strips of highly-seasoned fat bacon, and roll them. Prepare a forcemeat with 14oz. of cushion of veal freed of skin and gristle, and the same quantity of bacon; chop and pound it in a mortar, and season with salt and mixed spices. Line the paste with forcemeat, put the Partridges in, cover with a layer of forcemeat, place a thin slice of fat bacon on the force- meat, and a bay-leaf on the top of that. Cover the pie vitli a flat of paste, moistening and pressing the edges together. Trim round the edges of the paste to make it even with the mould. Roll a second cover of paste out, damp it underneath, and lay it on top of the other. Brush the top of the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, make a hole in the centre lin. wide, and carve a pattern on the top with the point of a small knife. Put the pie in the oven with a sheet of paper over to prevent it getting too brown, and bake for two hours. Make a gravy jelly with the bones of the Partridges; the trimmings of bacon and veal, one calf’s foot boned and cut into small pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, one onion stuck with two cloves, and a pinch of salt, simmered in 3 pints of broth till the calf’s foot is tender; then strain it through a fine hair sieve. Half-an-hour after the pie is done, pour the gravy in through the hole in the centre of the cover, and close it up with a piece of paste to prevent evaporation. Serve when cold. (3) Butter a pie-mould and line it with a sliort-paste in which has been mixed the yolks of three eggs. Draw and clean three Partridges, cut them in pieces, put them in a saute-pan with a little clarified butter, and fry for five minutes. Cut Jib. each of bacon and calf’s liver in small pieces, put them into a saute-pan, season with a little thyme, salt, pepper, and a bay-leaf, and fry them. When cooked, take the pan off the fire, and leave the liver and bacon till cold. Pound the liver and bacon in a mortar, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put a layer of the forcemeat at the bottom of the mould, leaving a hollow in the centre; lay one half of the pieces of Par- tridges on the forcemeat, putting a little between each piece to keep them together, put another layer of force- I Partridges—continued. meat on the top, with the remainder of the Partridge put in the same way, and finish with a layer of forcemeat. Wrap a thin slice of bacon round a piece of bread that should have been cut to fit the hollow in the centre, and put it in. Put a cover of paste on the top, moistening and pressing the edges together, brush the pie over with a paste brush dipped in beaten egg, place the pie in the oven, and bake. Reduce some Spanish sauce with essence of truffles and sliced truffles. When cooked, take the cover off and the piece of bread from the centre of the pie, put the pie on a dish, fill the hollow with the sauce and truffles, place a circle of cocks kernels on the top of the forcemeat, pile up some more sliced truffles in the centre, and serve while hot. (4) Clean and bone four red Partridges, lay them open on the table, and sprinkle mixed spices and salt over them. Remove all the skin and gristle from 1 Jib. of veal, chop it with an equal quantity of bacon, put it in a mortar, and pound. Place a layer of the forcemeat and three slices of truffles on each bird, and roll them to an oval shape. Butter a pie-mould, line it with short-paste, put a layer of forcemeat at the bottom, two of the Partridges on that, with a few slices of truffles over them, another thin layer of forcemeat, then the other two Partridges, some more sliced truffles, and a layer of forcemeat. Put some thin slices of fat bacon on the top, cover the pie with a fiat of paste, and make a hole in the centre, moisten- ing and pressing the edges together; dip a paste-brush in beaten egg, brush the top of the pie over with it, and bake. Half-an-hour after the pie has been taken out of the oven, pour in through the top some melted meat jelly that has been mixed with reduced essence of Partridge, close the hole in the cover with a little piece of paste, and serve the pie when cold. (5) Procure a pair of Partridges that are not high, split them lengthwise down the back, and dust them over well v itli salt, pepper, and powdered spices. Put some thin slices of ham in a pie-dish, then put in the birds; add some button mushrooms, strew over them in moderate quantities some finely-minced parsley and shallots, and three-parts fill the dish with liquid calf’s-foot jelly. Cover the pie with puff paste, trimming it off neatly round the edges, and bake it in a moderate oven for about an hour. Serve it either hot or cold. (6) Clean the birds, and season them inside and out with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of pounded cloves. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with a few thin rashers of fat bacon, put in the birds, pour in a small quantity of water, put the lid on the pan, and cook the birds slowly on a smothered fire until tender; but they must not be too much done. Mix in equal quantities of finely-chopped veal, fat bacon, and calf’s liver, and season the mixture with salt, pepper, spice, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Line a buttered pie-mould with a good pie crust, spread in a layer of the forcemeat, on which lay two or three of the rashers of bacon that were cooked with the birds; put in the birds, cover with the remainder of the forcemeat, place two or three slices of bacon on the top, and cover the whole with a fiat of paste. Trim round the edges, moisten these slightly with water, and pinch them together, making a small hole in the centre for the steam to escape