184 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigeons—continued. spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire for twenty minutes or half-an-hour. Finely chop the livers, and mix with them a sprig of chopped parsley, 1 table-spoonful each of sauce and gravy, a lump of butter, a piece of grated lemon-peel, and dust over a small quantity of grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes. Put the birds on a hot dish, and serve them with the sauce. Salmis of Pigeons.—Cut some cold cooked Pigeons into nice pieces, season them on both sides with salt and pepper, and flour them well; put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of cold water, loz. of butter, and a few drops of mushroom ketchup, and boil them gently at the edge of the fire for a few minutes. When cooked, turn the salmis on to a hot dish, garnish it with sippets of toast or croft to ns of fried bread, and serve. Stewed. Pigeons.—(1) Pluck and prepare the birds; for two Pigeons, put in a stewpan ‘2oz. of butter, |lb. of thinly- sliced lean ham, a few button mushrooms, a moderate quantity of powdered sweet herbs, and the juice of half a lemon. Put the birds in the stewpan, moisten them to height with clear gravy, and keep them simmering gently for half-an-hour or until tender. When cooked, put the Pigeons on a hot dish, and arrange the mushrooms round them. Mix 1 wineglassful of port wine with the gravy, strain it over the birds, and serve. (2) Clean four Pigeons, and truss them with their legs inwards. Put them in a stewpan, lay some thin slices of fat bacon over them, pour in some chicken broth to the height of the Pigeons, and place a sheet of buttered paper on the top. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer by the side of the fire until the Pigeons are done. Cut a block of crumb of bread, 3in. high, l-jin. square at the top, and widening out to 2^in. square at the base. Fiy it in boiling fat till nicely browned. Drain the piece of bread, and fix it in the middle of a dish with a paste made of white of egg and flour. Cook some cauliflowers, carrots, turnips, and French beans. Drain the Pigeons, rest them against the sides of the bread, and pile the vegetables tastefully up between them. Flollow out the bottom of an artichoke, shaping it like a bowl, put it on top of the bread, and fill it with French beans. Pour a little bechamel sauce over the Pigeons, and serve with a sauceboatful of the same sauce. (3) Clean two house Pigeons, cut off their necks, and truss them -with their legs inwards; wash the livers and put them back in the body of the birds. Blanch |lb. of streaky bacon in boiling water, first removing the rind, cut it into squares, and fry it in a stewpan with a little butter till lightly browned, then take it out. Place the Pigeons in the same stewpan with the fat, and brown them. Take them out and lay them on a plate with the bacon. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in the same stewpan, and mix it with the fat over the fire till brown; then pour in 1 pint of broth and the liquor in which lqt. of turned mushrooms have been boiled. Sprinkle in a small quantity of salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire till boiling. Strain the liquor through a pointed strainer into another stewpan; then put in the Pigeons and bacon, twenty fried button onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the lid on the stewpan and let the contents cook gently for half an-hour; then add the mushrooms, and simmer for five minutes longer. Take the birds out when done, remove the strings, put them on a hot dish, skim the gravy, and take the sweet herbs out. Put the bacon, onions, and mushrooms round the Pigeons, strain the gravy over, and serve. (4) Truss a pair of plump young Pigeons, and soak them for an hour in 1 pint of Bordeaux wine. Chop an onion and some streaky bacon, then mix with it 4 breakfast- cupful of breadcrumbs and a small quantity of sage; bind the mixture together with a beaten egg, stuff the birds with it, and fasten them up securely. Put them in a saucepan with h pint of gravy and the wine in which they soaked. Let them simmer gently for an hour. Take the Pigeons out of the gravy, drain them, brush them over with beaten egg, sprinkle fine raspings over them, and put them in a Pigeons—continued. very hot oven, basting them with butter. Skim the fat off the gravy, and boil it sharply till reduced to \ pint. Put the Pigeons on a hot dish, pom the gravy round them, and serve. Stewed Pigeons served with Green Peas.—Truss two Pigeons with their legs inwards, cutting oil' the necks, and washing the livers and returning them again to the insides of the birds. Blanch |lb. of streaky bacon, cut it into squares, removing all rind, and fry it in a stewpan with loz. of butter. When lightly browned, take the bacon out, put the Pigeons in, and fry them brown; then take them out and put them on one side with the bacon. Stir 2 table-spoonfuls of flour in the stewpan with the fat, and when cooked pour in 1 h pints of broth. When boiling, strain it through a conical strainer into another stewpan; put in the Pigeons and bacon, lqt. of green peas, 1 bunch of sweet herbs, and pepper and salt to taste. Cook the Pigeons slowly for half-an-hour, then take them out, remove the strings, and put them on a hot dish. Take the bunch of herbs out, skim the fat off the peas, put them and the bacon round the birds, and serve with a sauceboatful of the strained gravy. Stewed Pigeons and Tinned Tomatoes.—Draw and wash a couple of Pigeons, cut off their heads, necks, and the toes at the first joint, and truss them. Cut 4oz. of bacon into small square pieces, and fry them until beginning to take colour; then put in the Pigeons and turn them occasionally until browned all over. Add 1 pint of tinned tomatoes and sufficient stock to cover, season to taste with salt and pepper, place the stewpan at the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer gently for one-hour- and-a-half. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until mixed. Pass the tomatoes and stock through a coarse wire sieve into the flour and butter, and stir over the fire until boiling, then put in 4 table-spoonfuls of cream. Lay the Pigeons on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, and serve. Stewed Wood-Pigeons.—Pluck, singe, and draw three wild Pigeons, split them lengthwise into halves, then cut them across into quarters. Put the pieces of Pigeon into a saucepan, pour in 1^ pints of stock, and place it over the fire until boiling. Put in with the Pigeons one chopped onion, a small piece of mace, eight peppercorns, four cloves, and f, teaspoonful of salt. Put the lid on the saucepan, and keep the contents simmering at the side of the fire. Put table-spoonfuls of flour into a basin and mix it smoothly with a small quantity of cold water; then mix with it 1 scant table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a few drops of caramel. When the Pigeons are tender, pour in the flour mixture, place the saucepan over the fire, and stir and boil the contents for ten minutes. At the end of that time, put the Pigeons on a hot dish, strain the sauce over them, and serve. Stuffed Pigeons (Faecis).—Pluck, draw, and clean the required quantity of Pigeons, and make an incision in the centre of the skin of each breast without cutting the flesh. Put the crumb of a stale roll in as much milk as it will absorb, and when soft squeeze it well, and mix with it two or three finely-chopped button mushrooms, a moderate quantity each of chopped shallot and parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and toz. of butter. When these ingre- dients are well mixed, lift the skin on each side of the incisions made in the breast of the bird, and stuff them with it. Sew up each opening, and put a small onion in each bird. Put them in a stewpan with a few trimmings of ham or lean bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt to taste. Moisten them to height with stock, and stew them gently at the edge of the fire. When the Pigeons are cooked, strain off some of their liquor into a smaller stewpan, thicken it with a little flour and butter that have been rolled together, and mix 1 wineglassful of white wine with it. Stir it over the fire until boiling, then move it to the side. Toast some slices of bread, lay them on a hot dish, and place the Pigeons on them; pom- a small quantity of the gravy round, and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat.