THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 962 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mushrooms—continued. pepper. Put a frying-pan over the fire, with 1 teaspoonful of butter; when the butter begins to brown pour in the beaten eggs, and as soon as they set upon the bottom of the pan break the omelet a little with a fork occasion- ally to allow the uncooked portion of the egg to reach the-pan, but do pot break the outer edge of the omelet, and do not stir it all together like scrambled eggs. When the omelet is cooked'to the desired degree, put the Mush- rooms on one half, and fold the other half over by lifting with a broad, flexible knife; then loosen the omelet fiom the pan, turn it out without breaking on to a dish, and serve at once. See Fig. 1206. (2) Trim and wash some button-Mushrooms, cut them into slices, put them in a stewpan, dust over with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of flour, squeeze over the juice of half a lemon, and moisten with a little water. Stew them until tender and the liquor has reduced ; break four eggs in a basin, season with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity each of finely-chopped thyme, parsley, and shallots, add the Mushrooms, and beat the whole well together. Melt a good-sized lump of butter in an omelet- pan, pour in the above mixture, and stir it with a wooden spoon ; turn the edges of the omelet up all round with the spoon, and as soon as it is lightly browned underneath turn it over on to a hot dish and serve immediately, or it will not be nice. Mushroom Patties.—Butter and line some small patty- pans with good paste, till them with uncooked rice, and bake. Trim and wash a sufficient quantity of button- Mushrooms, drain perfectly, and chop them; next put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and tcss about over the fire until they are nicely fried. Thicken about 1 teacupful of water with a small quantity of flour, pour it over the Mushrooms, add 1 table-spoonful of thick cream and a few drops of clear broth! season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, and squeeze in a few drops of lemon-juice. Stir the mixture over the fire with a wooden spoon, and boil very gently for a few minutes. When cooked, turn the rice out of the patties, and fill them with the above mixture. Serve on a hot dish nicely garnished with parsley. Mushroom Pie.—(1) Select about twelve or fourteen large flat Mushrooms, peel, and cut them in quarters, also peel and slice some large potatoes; butter a pie-dish, put in a layer of potatoes, then a layer of Mushrooms, another of potatoes, and so on until all are used, seasoning between each layer with salt and pepper, and putting pieces of butter here and there. Cover the pie with a nice crust, trimming otf neatly round the edges, and bake in a moderate oven. Put the trimmings of the Mushrooms in a small quantity of clear gravy and boil them for several minutes, then strain the liquor and season to taste with salt and pepper. When the pie is cooked, make a. slight incision in the top and pour in the gravy, which should have been kept hot. Serve the pie hot. (2) Select a quantity of large Mushrooms, remove the stalks and skin, and cut them in halves; put them into a frying-pan with a little oil or butter, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and fry quickly for a few minutes, then remove them from the fire. Put a few slices of raw ham at the bottom of a pie-dish, next a layer of the Mushrooms, then one of minced parsley, onion, and fennel; squeeze down tightly, place another layer of ham on top, and pour over 2 table-spoonfuls of light brown sauce. Cover the pie-dish Mushrooms—continued. with short-paste, put it on a baking sheet in a moderate oven, bake for an hour, and serve hot. Mushroom Powder.—(1) Wipe h peck of fresh Mushrooms with a cloth to remove any dirt or grit, and cut off the uneatable parts; put them into a saucepan with a few onions, cloves, a little mace, and a good supply of pepper, do not add any liquor, but toss them over the fire until all the moisture from the Mushrooms and onions has dried up, taking care that they do not burn. Now lay the Mushrooms on sieves, set them in a hot oven, and leave until they are so dry that they will easily beat into powder. Put this" powder into small bottles, cork, fasten down closely, and keep in a cool dry place. (2) Select the largest and thickest button-Mushrooms, lay them out on dishes, and place them in a rather cool oven. When the Mushrooms are very dry, put them in a mortar, and pound to a fine powder; mix with it a moderate quantity each of powdered mace and cayenne pepper, and sift it through a fine hair sieve. Keep the powder dry in well-stoppered glass bottles. Mushroom Puree.—(1) Remove the stalks and skins from lib. of Mushrooms, chop them up, put them in a sauce- pan with a little broth or milk, and simmer gently for ten minutes. Add the crumb of a French roll, and stir vigorously until all the moisture has evaporated. Add loz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and rub the whole through a fine strainer. Put the puree in a pan to keep warm until wanted, and if too thick a little milk or cream may be added whilst it is being passed through the sieve. (2) Cut off the stalks from some Mushrooms, wash them well, chop them up very fine, put them into a lined sauce- pan with a little butter and salt, cover the pan, and reduce the moisture quickly over a brisk fire. Turn them out into a mortar, put hi a little butter and meat glaze, pound them well, and add a little bechamel sauce; when the mixture is quite thick, pass it through a sieve, and it is ready for use. (3) To make a white puree of Mushrooms, put them (when they are peeled and washed) into some water and lemon-juice; chop them up small and put them into a saucepan with a little butter, and when the Mushrooms are softened add a few table-spoonfuls of good sauce, such as veloute or bechamel, boil for a few minutes, rub them through a fine sieve, and the puree is then ready for use. (4) To make brown Mushroom puree, put the Mushrooms into a saucepan with a little Spanish sauce, and boil for a few minutes, skimming once or twice; add a little sugar, and pass it through a fine sieve. (5) Wash IJlb. of Mushrooms, cut them up small, and put them into a saucepan with 1 table-spoonful each of water and lemon-juice and a small quantity of salt. Place the pan on the fire, boil the contents gently for two minutes, then remove the pan and let the Mushrooms cool in their liquor. Take them out, drain, wipe on a cloth, and pound them in a mortar together with loz. of butter, and pass the whole through a fine sieve. Have ready 1 pint of bechamel sauce, put it in a saucepan with the Mushroom liquor, reduce it, and add the puree to it. Boil up, add loz. of butter, mix -well in, and serve very hot. Mushroom Sauce.—(1) Put lib. of Mushrooms into a sauce- pan with three shallots, finely chopped, and a small bunch of parsley. Pour in sufficient clear gravy stock to cover the Mushrooms well, season to taste with salt and pepper, and let them stew gently at the side of the fire for a couple of hours, keeping the lid on the saucepan. At the end of that time, pass the sauce through a fine hair sieve, rubbing the Mushrooms through with a wooden spoon. Put loz. of butter into a small saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed, then pour in the sauce, and stir the whole until boiling. It is then ready for use. (2) Clean lqt. of Mushrooms, and boil them gently in a small quantity of water until tender. Put 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour into a stewpan, stirring them over the fire until well mixed; then pour in 1 breakfast- cupful of cream and a small quantity of the cooking-