2 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. N asturtium—continued. Nasturtium Sauce.—(1) Add to \ pint of well-boiled melted-butter sauce 1 dessert-spoonful of vinegar or strained lemon-juice and some pickled Nasturtiums, gherkins, green peas, or French beans cut to the size of capers. Let the sauce get quite hot and serve in a tureen. Fig. 2. Nasturtium Salad. (2) Stir 3 table-spoonfuls of pickled Nasturtium-seeds into 1 teacupful of drawn butter in a saucepan, and add a little salt and pepper. Place the pan at the side of the fire, simmer gently, and it is then ready for use. (3) Put loz. of butter into a saucepan, melt it slightly, and add gradually foz. of flour, giving the pan a shake every now and then as it is added. When the flour has lost all its taste by shaking the pan well at a little distance from the fire, pour in gradually \ pint of boiling gravy. Mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of Nasturtium-seeds, and add 1 teaspoonful of the liquor from them and the same quantity of chilli vinegar. Put the pan on the fire and stir well until the sauce boils, when it will be ready for use. (4) Put some freshly-gathered Nasturtium-blossoms into a jar, and for about 1 pint of the flowers pour in lqt. of vinegar ; add half-a-dozen shall its, f table-spoonful of salt, and \ table-spoonful of cayenne. Cover the jar, and leave it for seven or eight days. Next, strain oft' the liquor, and mix with it J pint each of soy and essence of anchovies. When well mixed, pour the sauce into small bottles, cork them tightly, and store for use. Pickled Nasturtium-Buds.—Gather the buds on a dry day and leave them for three days; then put them into a jar, pour spiced boiling vinegar over them, and when cold tie over the jar. They must be left for several months before being used. Pickled Nasturtium-Seeds.—(1) Put some Nasturtium- seeds in a basin and pour over some strong boiling brine, straining, boiling it again, and pouring it over fre- quently for three weeks or so. Then put the seeds into some clear water, changing it repeatedly in order to ex- tract the salt. Put them into bottles, and pour over them boiling vinegar mixed with cloves, allspice, ginger, mace, and sugar, using h pint of these together to every gallon of vinegar. When cold, tie down the bottles and put them in a cool place until wanted. (2) Select seeds that have been gathered within seven days from the time the blossoms fell off; put Jgall. of them into salted water, changing the water daily, and let them remain for three days. Then drain them through a sieve, and dry on a cloth. Put Jgall. of white-wine vinegar into a saucepan with two shallots cut into slices, 2oz. of salt, loz. of white peppercorns, and Joz. each of mace and nutmeg. Boil over a clear fire for ten minutes or so, skim well, and then let it cool. Put the seeds into jars, pour over the liquor, cover, and tie them down ; in a few days the pickle will be ready for use. (3) Gather the seeds while young, as they should be quite green, and wash them in plenty of cold water. Drain the seeds, lay them on a dish, strew plenty of salt over, and leave until the next day. Dry the seeds on a cloth, and pack them in jars with plenty of horseradish, tarragon-leaves, whole peppers, and a few cloves. Pour in sufficient cold vinegar to cover the pickles; cover the jars Nasturtium—contimted. with stout paper or parchment, and keep them in a dry store-cupboard for use. NAVARIN.—A French word signifying a mutton stew, but having no apparent reason for its existence. NEAPOLITAN CAKE.—Nee Cakes. NEAPOLITAN CHARLOTTE.—See Charlottes. NEAPOLITAN CREAM ICE.-Nee Cream. NEAPOLITAN ICES.—These are made in solid cakes, being frozen in a square box made specially for this purpose. They may be coloured, plain, or in layers of different colours, and may consist of any simple fruit or cream-ice. NEAPOLITAN PASTRY.—Nee Pastry. NEAPOLITAN PUDDING.—Nee Puddings. NEAPOLITAN SOUP.—Nee Soups. NEAT’S PEET.—See Cow-heels. NEAT’S TONGUE—Nee Ox -TONGUES. NECK—This is the name given to that part of the animal which intervenes between the shoulders and the head, supporting the latter, and being therefore proportionately muscular and ligamentous. Although not considered a choice part for culinary purposes, it can be utilised with good effect. See Mutton, &c. NECTAR.—The fabled drink of the mythological deities, substantiality having been imparted to it by sweetening wine with honey and giving it that name. It has various existences now, as the following receipts will show. A cheap aerated drink is also sold under this name. (1) Nearly fill a pint bottle with cold filtered water, drop in 2oz. of crushed loaf sugar and 2 scruples of bicarbonate of potash, let them dissolve, then add 2 draclims of citric acid in crystals; cork immediately, shake the bottle vigorously, and as soon as the acid is dissolved the Nectar is fit for use, but will keep good for a time if put in a cool place. (2) Finely chop 21b. of stoned raisins, put them into a pot with 41b. of loaf sugar, and pour over 2galls. of boiling water. Leave it till cold, then - add two lemons cut in slices; leave it for five days, stirring daily, then leave it for another similar period so that it will get clear. Bottle off into small bottles, and in ten days it will be fit to drink. (3) Three-parts fill a pint bottle with water, and add 1 scruple of bicarbonate of potash, loz. of sugar, and lastly 1 drachm of citric acid. Cork up the bottle, shake it well, and when the acid is dissolved the drink will be ready for use. It is like lemonade flavoured with essence of pine-apple. Nectar Cream.—Put in a sugar-boiler or lined pan 61b. of refined sugar and 4oz. of tartaric acid; pour in 2qts. of water and stir over the fire until warm, then add the beaten whites of four eggs. Continue stirring until the liquor begins to bubble, then take the boiler off immedi- ately before it boils. When cool, strain the Nectar through a fine sieve or piece of muslin. Put 1 teaspoonful of the cream in a glass of cold water with a very small quantity of bicarbonate of soda, and stir until it effervesces. Nectar Syrup.—(1) Mix loz. each of the extracts of bitter almonds, rose, vanilla, and lemon, and add them to lgall. of syrup with a little cochineal for colouring; it is then fit for use. Or the syrup may be made by mixing one-fifth each of lemon and pine-apple syrups to three-fifths of vanilla syrup. (2) Put .3Ub. of sugar into a saucepan with a very little cream of tartar and stir over the fire until the sugar is