TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 177 N Pigs —continued. the centre. Fill this cavity with almost cold hut stiff liquid jelly, and let it set firm. Turn the pain out on to a dish, and serve with a little horseradish sauce in a sauceboat. PIGEONS (Fr. Pigeons; Ger. Tauben; Ital. Co- lombi; Sp. Colombis).—Excepting for the purpose of making pies, Pigeons are not much used by British cooks. To the Continental cook, next to fowls, the Pigeon ranks highest as a culinary bird, being used in innumerable ways. Of the tribe to which the Pigeon belongs (Colombo.), there are innumerable varieties all over the world; so many, indeed, that it would be impossible for the cook to distinguish one from the other when stripped of their beautiful plumage. The British Pigeon requires no special description. It should be plump and young, and the feet, being usually left on even after trussing, will be the best indication of its age. In France, Pigeons are especially bred and fattened for the market, those from Bordeaux being especially high-class, giving their name consequently to fatted Pigeons generally, whether bred in that or any other part of the European continent. The season for them lasts from March to October. We are informed by a famous poulterer that old Pigeons can be detected by the thinness of their breasts and limbs, and the darkness of their skins. The flesh on the breast of the young bird should be of a light red colour, and the claws pinkish. Wild or wood Pigeons are usually larger than tame Pigeons; the same rules for selecting, preparing, and cooking apply equally to all. The common name for wood Pigeon is Cushat, and the common term for young Pigeons of any kind is Squabs. Under the latter heading will be found some special receipts for nestling Pigeons or other young birds, which are all included correctly under that name. Pigeons should always, if possible, be drawn directly they are killed, then well washed and thoroughly dried. They are trussed by cutting off the neck and head, also Fig. 230. Pigeon Trussed for Roasting or Boiling. the toes at the first joint, then crossing the wings over the back, and securing these with a skewer thrust through them and the body (see Fig. 230); they are then ready for roasting. Ballotines of Pigeons.—These are prepared in tire same way as Ballotines of Quails, substituting Bordeaux Pigeons for quails. Boiled Pigeons.—(1) Singe and draw eight Pigeons and bone them. Wash and scald the livers of the Pigeons and eight livers of chickens. Chop them together, and mix with them lib. of chopped veal and Jib. of chopped bacon. Put the chopped meats into a saucepan with loz. of butter, a blade of mace, and a small quantity of salt and pepper. Stir them constantly over the fire for ten minutes, then add Jib. of breadcrumbs. Pound the forcemeat smoothly, and put in more seasoning if required. Stuff the Pigeons with the mixture, truss them neatly into shape, put them into a saucepan, pour over 1 pint of stock, and let them simmer gently for an hour. Drain the Pigeons, and lean Pigeons—continued. them against a pile of mashed potatoes in the centre of a dish. Boil the cooking liquor till reduced to a small quantity, and glaze the Pigeons with it. While the birds are cooking, put their bones into a saucepan with a shallot, three cloves, \ pint of stock, and J pint of water, and boil them for an hour. Then strain the liquor from the bones into a stewpan, stir in 1 dessert- spoonful of flour which has been first worked smooth in a little cold water, and boil up for ten minutes longer. Pour this gravy into a tureen, and serve with the Pigeons. Garnish the dish with fried parsley (see Fig. 231). (2) Prepare and trass the birds as for stewing. Lay a slice of bacon over the breast of each bird, wrap them separately in small cloths, and boil them gently in stock. Wash 4oz. of rice, put it into a saucepan with sufficient veal stock to cook it without making it too liquid, and boil gently until tender. When the rice is cooked, mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of cream, and season it with salt and pepper. When the Pigeons are cooked, remove the cloths, divide each bird into halves, splitting them lengthwise, place them on a hot dish, pile the rice all round them, and serve. Braised. Pigeons.—Draw and wash three young Pigeons, wipe them well, and stuff them with breadcrumbs that have been well seasoned and moistened with warmed butter, and cook them in a braising-pan. Boil some spinach, finely chop it, and season with salt and pepper. Toast three slices of bread, lay them on a hot dish, spread the spinach over them, put a pigeon on each slice, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. Braised Pigeons Stuffed with Parsley.—Wash some parsley in two or three waters, cut off the large stems, and finely chop it, allowing 1 pint for each bird, and adding while chopping, salt, pepper, and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of water. Draw and clean the Pigeons, stuff them with the parsley, put in their hearts, and a square inch of salt pork for each bird. Cook the Pigeons in a braising- pan. When done, put them on a hot dish, and serve with a sauceboatful of gravy. Broiled Pigeons.—Clean the Pigeons, split them down the back, wipe them with a damp towel, and sprinkle salt and pepper over them. Roll them in warmed butter, dredge them with flour, and broil for ten minutes over a clear fire, turning to do both sides equally. Toast some thick slices of bread without the crust, butter them, and put them on a hot dish. When cooked, lay the Pigeons on the toast, garnish round with parsley, and serve. Broiled Pigeons a la Crapaudine.—Clean two Pigeons, cut them lengthwise under the breast, beat them flat, and season them with pepper and salt. Put the Pigeons into a saute-pan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, and fry them for a-quarter-of-an-hour. Drain the Pigeons, put them between two plates with a weight on the top, and leave them till cold. Fry 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallot in the saute-pan, then pour in J pint of broth, season with a small quantity of pepper, and boil till reduced to half its original quantity. Skim the fat off the gravy, strain it through a pointed strainer into a smaller stew- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, icc., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. II.