TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 968 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Mussels—continued. yolks of six hard-boiled eggs, beat them to a pulp, put it into a saucepan containing {gall, of hot fish stock, add 1 table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and simmer for an hour. Remove from the fire, add 1 breakfast-cupful of cream, and serve in a tureen. Pickled Mussels.—(1) Take any quantity of cooked Mussels, pick them out of their shells, remove the beards, put them into jars or wide-mouthed bottles, and sprinkle over with salt and pepper. Strain some of their liquor (that is what comes from them when being cooked) and add to it an equal quantity of vinegar; fill up the bottles with the liquor, tie them down, let them remain for a day or so, when the Mussels will be ready for use. They -may be eaten hot by pouring a little of the liquor into a saucepan, uitli some minced parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and thickening with a little butter well rolled in flour. Add the Mussels, let them remain in it until thoroughly warmed through, and serve. (2) Take some hustled Mussels, remove the piece of weed, if any, that is attached to them, and take out any small crabs that may be found in them. Pull the fish out of the shells with a fork and put them in an earthenware jar, sprinkling them over frequently with pepper. When their liquor is settled and clear, take some of it, and vinegar in equal proportions, pour it over the Mussels, tie them down tightly, and they will keep good for several days. (3) Take the Mussels out of their shells and beard them, put them into a saucepan with their liquor, moderate quantities each of whole, black, and Jamaica pepper, mace, ginger, and salt, and boil them for five minutes. When cold, turn the pickle into jars, pour in each a little vinegar, cover them with stout paper, and tie down securely. Scalloped Mussels.—(1) Put some Mussels hr a saucepan and hustle them over a quick fire for a few minutes until the meat will come away easily from the shells. Remove the beards, weeds, &c., take out the fish from their shells, squeeze all the liquor out of them, aird add it to that which came from them while being cooked; strain it into a saucepan, put hi the Mussels, and warm them up, adding a little flour, butter, grated nutmeg, and pepper. Care must be taken not to let them boil, and not to use any salt, as they generally contain sufficient. Have ready cleaned some scallop shells, cover them with breadcrumbs, put a layer of the Mussels over it, then breadcrumbs again, and another layer of Mussels; moisten them with a few table-spoonfuls of the liquor, put a layer of crumbs on the top, with a few pieces of butter placed here and there, sprinkle over a little dried parsley, and put them in an oven to cook until they are a bright brown. They may be browned with a salamander instead of in the oven if desired, and must be served hot. (2) Wash the shells several times till they are quite clean, but do not let them soak in water or lie in it. Plunge them into just sufficient boiling water to cover, and keep the water boiling till the shells open. While they are boiling, shake the saucepan frequently, and keep it closely covered. When the Mussels are done (that is when the shells open), remove their beards, pick them out of then- shells, and save the liquor that runs from them. If there are 1 pint of Mussels when they are shelled, add to them { pint of the liquor that ran from them, and put them over the fire hr it, adding a bit of butter rolled in flour and a blade of mace. Let them stew gently for a few minutes. Have some clean scallop shells ready and well heated, pour the Mussels into them, cover with fine breadcrumbs, stick little bits of butter over them, brown before the fire, and serve hot. When boiling Mussels it is as well to boil a silver spoon with them, and if it turns black consider the Mussels unfit to be eaten, and throw them away. (3) Wash the Mussels in plenty of water, then drain them, and steep them in milk for a few hours. Put the Mussels in a saucepan without any water, and place them over the fire until the shells open. Pour the liquor from the Mussels into a basin, and leave it until it settles. Remove the beards, tongues, and any weeds from the Mussels. Pour the liquor of the Mussels slowly into a saucepan, taking care not to disturb the sediment that will have Mussels—continued. settled at the bottom, place it over the fire until hot, then put in about loz. of butter and sufficient bread- crumbs to absorb the liquor ; season it with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg or mace. Put the Mussels in with the above ingredients, and stir the whole over the fire until quite hot, but without letting it boil. Fill scallop shells with the stewed Mussels, baste each with a small quantity of warmed butter, and brown them lightly under a salamander. Arrange the shells on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, and serve while very hot. Stewed Mussels.—(1) Have some cooked or hustled (Mussels, take them from their shells, and remove their beards and any weeds there may be. In the meantime prepare a stew by mixing 1 breakfast-cupful of boiling milk with an equal quantity of the hot Mussel-liquor, and adding a little butter and salt and pepper to taste. Put the Mussels in a dish, pour the liquor over, and serve hot. (2) Take some strained or hustled Mussels, remove their beards and any weeds, and pull them out of their shells. In the meantime put a little bacon in a saucepan with a few button-mushrooms, warm them, and stir in a little Hour mixed with some reduced stock and seasoned with mixed herbs and pepper. When they are done, pour off all the grease, put hi the Mussels with a little of their liquor, and when quite hot pour it into a dish and serve with small pieces of toasted bread. (3) Open some Mussels, remove the beards, put them with their liquor into a saucepan with a little vinegar, a large onion or two, and a small quantity of parsley. Place the pan over a moderate fire and stew them, then remove from the fire, add a beaten egg or two, thicken with butter rolled in flour, warm up again, and serve. Stewed Mussels a la Mariniere.—Put'three dozen Mussels into a saucepan without any water and steam them for about ten minutes; take them out, remove half of their shells, put them into a saucepan with 2oz. of fresh butter, 1 pinch each of chives and finely-chopped chervil, { pinch of pepper, and 1 teacupful of finely-sifted breadcrumbs; pour over { breakfast-cupful of water and boil for two minutes longer. Turn the whole out on to a dish, and Fig. 1211. Stewed Mussels k la Mariniere. serve with the juice of half a lemon squeezed over. The Mussels should lie arranged on the dish with the half- shells downwards. Garnish with parsley and quarters of lemons (see Fig. 1211). MUST.—The juice of the grape before fermentation. MUSTACCUIOLI.—Sometimes spelled Mustacciole or Mustascioli. A sort of gingerbread or spice-cake, prepared extensively in Italy. It is of a flat lozenge shape, ! stuffed with a mince of fruit slightly sugared, and glazed j with plain chocolate without sugar. MUSTARD (Fr. Moutarde; _ Ger. _ Senf; Ital. Mos- tarda; Sp. Mostaza).—Kettner, in his "Book of the Table,” informs us that Mustard, in the form which at present prevails in England, was not known before 1/29. Its Old English name was senvy, from sinapisThe seeds, either whole or coarsely pounded, were boiled in vinegar or must—whence the name, meaning a kind of pickle. The French to this day adhere very much to the old form; they grind the seeds to a fine flour, mix them with tarragon vinegar, and present them for use thus moistened. English Mustard as we now have it was the invention of an old lady, Mrs. Clements, of Durham. She ground the seeds in a mill exactly like wheat, and