187 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Pike—continued. Boudins of Pike.—(1) Prepare a Pike quenelle forcemeat and mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of cooked and chopped fine herbs. Divide the forcemeat into small equal portions, and roll them out on a floured table to pieces three times the thickness of macaroni. Twist the ends of each of these pieces in a spiral and in an opposite direction, imitating the letter S. Put a wooden skewer through each boudin, range them side by side in a buttered saute-pan, and poach them in boiling salted water. Drain the boudins, leave them till cool, then dip them in beaten eggs and breadcrumbs, and fry till lightly browned in boiling fat. When done, drain, and arrange the boudins on a folded napkin or ornamental disli-paper on a hot dish, garnish round with parsley, and serve. (2) Prepare a Pike forcemeat, also a salpipon made of mush- rooms, carp’s roes, and truffles, mixed in stiffly reduced German sauce. Butter some strips of paper, 4in. long and 2Jain. wide, and put a piece of forcemeat, 3Jin. by 1 Jin. thick on each strip, with the handle of a spoon. Press part of the forcemeat in the centre of each boudin, to form a hollow fin. deep and fin. in diameter, fill the cavity with some of the salpipon, then cover it with some forcemeat, put the boudins in a saute-pan with a little stock, and let them simmer for a quarter-of-an-hour. Arrange the boudins in a circle on a hot dish, pour some German sauce over, and serve. Broiled Fillets of Pike.—Pick the fillets of three or four Pike off the bones and cut each into halves lengthwdse, rub them over with finely-minced shallots and salt and pepper, dredge with flour, and broil them over a clear fire. Beat 4oz. of butter together with the juice of a lemon and a small quantity of cayenno pepper. When cooked, put the fillets on a hot dish, coat them with the prepared butter, and serve. Broiled Fillets of Pike d la Tide.—Cut the fillets off a Pike, skin them and shape like cutlets, dust with a little salt and pepper, brush them over with beaten yolks of eggs, strew with breadcrumbs, brush over with warmed butter, and breadcrumb them again. Broil the fillets over a clear but slow fire. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of tarragon vinegar in a saucepan and boil it until reduced to half, then add 3 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce; thicken it with the yolk of an egg, stir in 2 table-spoon- fuls of fresh butter and the juice of half a lemon, season with salt and pepper, and continue stirring till the sauce is quite smooth. Put the fillets on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Carbonade of Pike.—(1) Skin and bone a Pike, cut it into nice slices, dip them in warmed butter, and strew over some chopped sweet herbs and finely-grated breadcrumbs. Baste them with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of ibeaten egg, lay them on a baking-dish, and bake until nicely browned. When cooked, lay them carefully on a hot dish; pour some clear gravy in the baking-dish, stir it well over the fire, pour over the fish, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. (2) Clean the Pike, remove the skin and bones, and cut it into moderately thick slices. Dip the slices in warmed butter and then in fine herbs, giving them a good coating. Leave the slices of fish for lialf-an-hour, then coat them with finely grated breadcrumbs, having previously moistened them with beaten egg. Lay the slices on a baking-dish, put them in a brisk oven, and bake till lightly browned. When cooked, lay the slices of fish on a hot dish. Pour \ pint of broth in the baking-dish, with a squeeze of lemon- juice, stir it well over the fire until boiling, then pour it over the fish, and serve. Fillets of Pike a la Maitre d’Hotel.—Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan and melt it; divide the fillets of Pike into halves, put them skin side downwards into the warmed butter, sprinkle some chopped shallots over them, season with salt and pepper, and fry over a slow fire for ten minutes, turning them when done on one side. The fillets should not be browned. Make f pint of melted butter, mix with it Jib. of maitre-d’hotel butter, and stir till it has quite dissolved. When cooked, arrange the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Pike—continued. Fillets of Pike a la Royale.—Fillet a large Pike, cut the thick part of each fillet slantingly into slices, beat them lightly, and trim to an oval shape of an equal size. Put one half of the fillets into a buttered saute-pan, spread the remaining ones with a thin layer of quenelle forcemeat, sprinkle them over with chopped truffle, and put them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. Prepare some paste for a crust to dish the fillets on with some flour, water, and butter; it should be kept rather consistent. Leave the paste till somewhat dry, then put it on a floured table, and work with the hand, adding more flour, till very firm ; let the paste rest for twenty-five minutes, giving it seven turns like puff paste. When very smooth, form the paste into a crust, brush it over with beaten egg, and dry in the hot closet; it will not require baking. Put the crust on a dish and fix a bread support in the centre, the top of which should be finished with a garnished attelette skewrer. Cook all the fillets, and when nicely done, arrange them in a circle on the crust. Fill the space between the fillets and the column of bread with mushrooms that have been glazed over with Normandy sauce, and serve. Fricasseed Pike.—Draw and wash two middling-sized Pike, cut off the fins, divide the Pike into pieces, and wipe them. Put a finely-chopped onion in a stewpan with a piece of butter and fry it for two minutes; then put in the pieces of Pike, season with salt and pepper, and fry them. When the flesh is firm, sprinkle over 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, and add gradually some water and white wine, mixed in equal quantities, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, five or six peppercorns and cloves, and some trimmings of fresh mushrooms; boil the pieces of Pike quickly, so as to reduce the liquor one-third. When cooked, take the pieces of Pike out, drain, and put them on a hot dish. Strain the sauce, and mix -with it a few fresh cooked morels, and their liquor freed of all fat. Boil the sauce, then move it to the side of the fire, and stir in the yolks of two or three beaten eggs and a little chopped parsley. When thickened, pour the sauce over the fish, Fig. 240. Fricasseed Pike. garnish with the morels and a few stuffed crayfish body- shells, and sprinkle over some capers; roll some fillets of anchovies into rings, put them round the dish (see Fig. 240), and serve. Fried Fillets of Pike.—Cut the fillets carefully off a Pike, wash and dry them well, then dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and fry them in plenty of oil. When nicely brow'ned, drain the fillets, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with a matelote sauce, and serve. Fried Fillets of Fike served with Bice.—Cut the fillets off a Pike, remove the skin, dust some pepper and salt over them, and fry in butter, keeping them white and firm; turn wdien done on one side and finish the other. Wash some rice and blanch it in boiling water, drain, put it in a stewpan witli some stock, and boil gently till well cooked; then mix with it a little thick cream and 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of veloutd sauce, keeping it tldck and firm. Dish the rice in a dome shape in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the fillets on it, mask them with a little maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve with a sauce- boatful of the same. Fried Fike.—Select small Pike, draw and wash them; put a lump of butter in a stewpan, and when blue smoke rises put in the fish, seeing that they are perfectly dry, and fry until nicely browned and crisp. Afterwards drain the butter off them, and put in with them two or three anchovies, a slice of ginger, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, salt to taste, and a sufficient quantity of claret