THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 104 For details respecting Culmary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, *kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. the croquettes in beaten egg, and roll them in bread- crumbs. Put some lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling plunge the croquettes in. When cooked, arrange them in a pyramid shape on a folded napkin spread over a hot dish, and serve. (2) Remove the flesh from some roasted Partridges, cut it into dice of an equal size, put them in a basin, pour over them some bechamel sauce that has been boiled with a little game glaze till brown, and leave them till cool. Shape the preparation like small corks, and dip them into beaten eggs and then in breadcrumbs. Put some butter in a frying-pan; when boiling, put the croquettes in, and fry them till lightly browned all over. Drain and arrange the croquettes on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Pick out the best meat from some cold remains of Partridges, and mince it linely. Melt loz. of butter in a stewpan, mix 1 table-spoonful of flour in with it, and put in the minced Partridge, seasoning to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, Stir the mixture over the fire for a few minutes, then move it to the side, and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with the juice of half a lemon and strained. Spread the mixture out on a dish, and leave it until cold. Divide the mixture when stiff into small quantities, make them into the shape of corks, dip them in beaten egg, roll them in baked breadcrumbs, and leave for about half-an hour. Put a large piece of lard or clarified fat in a stewpan, and place it over the fire; when blue smoke rises, put in the croquettes, and fry them until equally browned. Drain the croquettes, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish- paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Partridge Croustades. (1) Truss eight Partridges as for braising, fasten a thin slice of bacon on each one, put them in a stewpan with some mirepoix, stand them over a. slow lire, and simmer till done. Prepare fourteen truffles, eight cocks’ combs, and eight large crayfish as for garnish. Cut an oval-shaped piece of bread, fry it, put it on a dish, and place a block of fried bread in the centre. Drain the Partridges when cooked, arrange them, necks down- wards, against the block of bread, and put a crayfish between each. Stick a silver skewer garnished with cocks’ combs and truffles in each bird so as to form a circle, and place the remaining truffles inside the circle. Fill a silver casserole with a financiere ragout that has had some Spanish sauce reduced until essence of Partridge mixed with it, and serve. (2) Boil ilb. of well washed rice in salted water, moisten- ing it with milk occasionally as it becomes dry. When very tender, • stir in with it 2oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and season until salt and pepper. Spread the rice out on a dish in a layer about 2in. thick, and leave it until quite cold; then cut it into rounds until a tin cutter 2in. in diameter. Cut some pieces of cold cooked Partridge into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with an onion stuck with three cloves, a carrot, a small piece of celery, half a blade of mace, a bay-leaf, and salt and pepper to taste; cover the whole with water, and boil gently for two hours; then strain the liquor into a basin. Pick all the flesh off the pieces of Partridge, and chop it Fig. 120. Partridge Croustades. with an equal quantity of lean beef. Put the mince into a mortar, and pound it until quite smooth. Moisten the meat with some of the above liquor, pour it into a stew- pan, add more seasoning if required, and stir it over the fire until hot. Dip the rounds of rice in beaten egg and roll them in grated breadcrumb, coating them well. Make an Partridges—co n ti nned. impression with a smaller cutter on the top of each. Put a large lump of fat into a deep frying-pan; when boiling, put in the croustades, and fry them a nice golden brown. When ready, drain the croustades as free from fat as possible, and lift out the centre marked by the smaller cutter. Scoop out some of the rice, and fill the hollow with the puree. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the croustades on it, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 120), and serve. Partridge Cutlets.—Bone and skin some Partridges, shape them like cutlets, cut them across in thin slices, mask them with a few cooked poultry livers that have been pounded into a paste, and then mask them with brown chaudfroid sauce; arrange them side by side on a baking- sheet, and bake. Glaze them with aspic jelly when done, and as soon as the jelly has set trim off the superfluous sauce and fasten paper ruffles round the bones. Put in the centre of a dish some small glazed truffles, arrange the cutlets round them, finish with a chain of small aspic- jelly crofitons round the cutlets, and serve. Partridge Cutlets a la Muscovite.—Trim one or two whole galantines of Partridge into the shape of cutlets, then cut them transversely in thin slices. Chop the meat of a cooked Partridge with a few cooked poultry livers, put it in a mortar,- and pound it; add 1 teacupful of brown sauce that has been reduced with the trimmings of a few raw truffles and strained, and rub all through a fine hair sieve. Mask the slices of galantine with a layer of this preparation, and leave it till cool. Cook the cutlets with brown chaudfroid sauce, lay them on a baking-disli, glaze them with jelly, and leave them till set. Glaze some small truffles. Trim the cutlets, put ruffles on them, arrange them in a circle on a dish, fill the centre with the glazed truffles, garnish round the cutlets with some croutons of jelly, and serve. Partridge Forcemeat.—(1) Put an equal quantity of Partridge and chicken-flesh, cut in small pieces, in a mortar, and pound it. Rub it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it lOoz. of udder of veal, that has been boiled, pounded, and passed through the sieve. When well mixed, add 10oz. of bread that has been soaked in a little stiffly-reduced stock, and season with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Mix the whole thoroughly, then add 1 teacupful of Spanish sauce that has been reduced with essence of Partridge. It is then ready for use. (2) Cut two breasts of Partridges into large pieces, pound them well in a mortar, gradually adding the same quantity of bread soaked in milk, four egg yolks, one after another, and 1 teaspoonful of butter. Season with 1 teaspoon- ful of salt, h teaspoonful of pepper, and the same quantity of grated nutmeg; thoroughly pound all together, then rub through a sieve. If not stiff enough, add one more egg yolk. Partridge Fatties.—Chop the remains of some cold roast Partridges, put them in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion, two or three pieces of celery, one bay-leaf, half a blade of mace, a few cloves and peppercorns, and salt to taste. Cover the whole with water, put the lid on the stewpan, and boil gently for two hours at the side of the fire. Strain the liquor into a basin, and when slightly cooled skim oft’ the fat. Pick out some of the best pieces of the Partridges, chop them with an equal quantity of lean beef, then put all into a mortar, and pound until smooth. Bring the pounded meat to the desired consistency with some of the above liquor, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a stewpan, and stir it on the fire until hot, then move it to the side. More seasoning should be added to the puree if necessary. Peel and partially boil in salted water 21b. of potatoes, then drain off the water, put in with them a large lump of butter and a moderate quantity of salt, and steam until quite tender, keeping the lid on the stewpan. Mash the potatoes, heat in with them the yolks of three eggs, season with a small quantity of grated nutmeg, stir them over the fire for a minute or two, then pass them through a fine hair sieve. Spread the potato paste out on a dish to about lin. in thickness, and leave it until cold. When ready, cut the paste into rounds