71 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <be., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. but rather larger. Chop fine and mix together a little parsley, some shallots and lemon-thyme, and add salt and white pepper. Rub this seasoning over the Oysters and pieces of meat, then brush over with beaten egg or dip them in it, shaking a little more of the seasoning over them; roll them in sifted breadcrumbs, and thread them alternately on small silver attelettes. After skewering, dip them again in the breadcrumbs and fry in boiling lard or fat to a pale brown. Slip the skewers out and serve with some rich gravy a little mushroom ketchup, and lemon pickle. Baked Oysters.—Butter the inside of a deep dish, and line it with sifted breadcrumbs. Put in half of the Oysters, sprinkle over a small quantity of white pepper, throw in a little mace, cover with a layer of breadcrumbs, and dis- tribute little pieces of butter all over. Lay the remainder of the Oysters on the top, season them with mace and ■white pepper, then cover with another layer of bread- crumbs and small pieces of butter. Pour in the liquor if the Oysters are fresh; if salt, pour iu a little water instead, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot. Baked Oysters in their Shells.—(1) Open some Oysters, remove the beards, and dip them first in beaten egg and then in finely-grated breadcrumb that have been seasoned with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Place the Oysters in their lower shells, put a small piece of butter on each, and bake for a few minutes in a brisk oven. When ready, place the shells with the Oysters on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a dish, squeeze a small quantity of lemon-juice over each, and serve. (2) Open and beard the required quantity of Oysters, removing them carefully from their shells; wipe the shells, put the Oysters back again, and strew over them a small quantity of washed, boned, and finely-minced anchovies, a small quantity of powdered mace, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Dredge them lightly with flour, put a small piece of butter in each shell, and place them in the oven until nicely browned over the top. Spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the shells on it, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Baked Oysters on Toast.—Beard two dozen fine Oysters, put their beards and liquor into a stewpan, and let them simmer for a few minutes. With a tin cutter, 3in. in diameter, cut some croutons of bread, toast them in front of a clear fire, and butter thickly on one side. Lay the croutons, buttered side downwards, on a dish that will stand the heat of the- fire, and put a few' Oysters on each. Strain the Oyster-liquor, and mix with it loz. of butter in small bits, season to taste with salt and a small quan- tity of cayenne pepper, and pour it over the Oysters. Put the dish into a brisk oven for a few' minutes, then take it out, and serve the Oysters while very hot with a plate of cut lemon. Boiled Oysters.—(1) Open the Oysters, wash the shells clean in boiling water, and drain them dry; drop the Oysters into boiling water, and let them simmer for two minutes. Serve them in their shells, with vinegar and pepper and thin slices of bread-and-butter. _(2) Put a-dozen-and-a-half Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, boil up, and add f teaspoonful of lemon- juice, a little cayenne, and salt and pepper to taste; mix these well and put in 1 table-spoonful each of butter and cracker-crumbs. Cook for a few' minutes longer, take them out, arrange them on pieces of toasted bread on a dish, pour over the liquor, and serve. Broiled Oysters.—(1) Take some fine large-sized Oysters, lay them on a soft cloth to dry, pepper them, and then place them on a w'ell-huttered gridiron over a clear fire and leave till thoroughly hot. Lay them then on slices of hot-buttered toast cut rather thin, and serve while hot. (2) Dip twenty-four large and freshly-opened Oysters in an equal quantity of bread and cracker-crumbs, flatten them with the hand, place them on a well-greased broiler and broil for two minutes on each side, then salt them slightly, arrange them on six slices of toast, lightly glaze them on top with maitre-d’hotel sauce, and serve. Oysters —continued. (3) Put a dozen or so large Oysters on a gridiron over a moderate fire with the flat shell uppermost; when done they will open. Preserve the liquor in the shells with the Oysters, and serve them hot upon a napkin. (4) Open the Oysters, remove the flat shell, dust a small quantity of salt and pepper over each one, lay them on a gridiron, baste them with a few drops of olive oil, and broil over a charcoal fire. When the Oysters are cooked and begin to stick to their shells, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with cut lemons, and serve. (5) Stuffed.—Put the grated yolks of four hard-boiled eggs into a basin, and mix in half the quantity of minced bacon or salt fat pork, add a little pepper and chopped parsley, and make them all into a paste by adding the un- cooked yolk of another egg. Split open 4 dozen Oysters, stuff them with this mixture, put them in table shells, 4 in each, coat them over with breadcrumbs, put a little warmed butter on the top, place them in an oven and bake until done. Put them on a dish, garnish with pieces of fried bread, and serve. See Fig. 90. Croustade of Oysters.—(1) Take a loaf of bread that has been baked in a round 2qt. mould, and wiien three or four days old take off the top crust and scoop out all the crumb. Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of the crumb into a frying-pan with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and fry them until they are quite crisp (it will take about two minutes) over a quick fire, and they must be stirred continuously. Pour Iqt. of cream into a saucepan, boil it, and stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed in with 1 teacupful of milk ; boil for eight minutes longer, and sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste. Put a layer of the sauce at the bottom of the croustade, next a layer of Oysters, sprinkle over more salt and pepper, then pour over another layer, and then add a layer of the breadcrumbs. Continue in this way until the croustade is full, finishing up with breadcrumbs. Put the croustade in the oven, bake slowly for thirty minutes, and serve on a dish with a garnish of parsley round it. It will take from lqt. to 3 pints of Oysters for this dish. On an average fifty oysters will make lqt. (2) Take lib. or so of butter, break it off into lumps about the size of an egg, put them into a bowl of ice-cold water, and work them into the shape of eggs. Roll in breadcrumbs, then in egg beaten with a little milk, then in cracker-meal, and egg and cracker-meal again, so as to give them two coatings of the meal. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat and fry to a deep yellow'; take them out, cut a round piece from the toil, and pour out the hot butter, scraping out any that will not ran out, with a spoon. Fill them up with Oysters, scalded and mixed with a little anchovy sauce, return the pieces taken off to their places, put them on a dish, garnish with slices of lemon and fried parsley, and serve. (3) Blanch some Oysters and cut them into little pieces. Boil a small quantity of white sauce till reduced to a creamy consistency, then mix in some anchovy butter, 1 pinch of cayenne pepper, and add the Oysters. Cut some thick slices of bread off a household loaf, mark a ring in the centre of each, on one side only, with a sharp pointed knife, and fry them till nicely browned all over in butter. Drain the crusts, hollow them out in the marked circle, and fill them with the Oyster mixture; sprinkle a little grated Parmesan cheese over, baste them with a little