77 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. resemble a rock, and parsley may be spread over tbe Oysters, and flowers inserted here and there (see Fig. 94). Oyster Kabobs.—Put some chopped onions, mushrooms, and parsley into a saucepan with a little butter and flour, warm it a little, and add two dozen blanched Oysters ; when they are warm stir in sufficient yolk of egg to make it of that consistence that it will adhere to the Oysters. Pass a skewer through six of the Oysters at a time with as much of the mixture on them as possible, then dip them in breadcrumbs, then beaten egg, and lastly bread- crumbs again. Put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry to a light brown. Put them on a dish, pull out the skewer, and serve. Oyster Ketchup.—(1) Pound two dozen Oysters with three Bordeaux anchovies in a mortar, anti season with |oz. each of ground cloves, cayenne pepper and ground mace. Mix their liquor with them, turn them into a lined sauce- pan, pour in 1 pint of white wine and 2 wineglassfuls of brandy. Place the ketchup over a slow fire until boiling, then strain it through a fine silk sieve. When cold pour the ketchup into bottles and keep them tightly corked for use. (2) Wash two dozen Oysters in their own liquor, then put them into a mortar and pound. Strain the liquor of the Oysters through muslin into a saucepan, add the pounded Oysters with 1 pint of sherry, and place them over a slow fire. When boiling, put into the liquor a small quantity each of pounded mace and cayenne pepper and 2 table- spoonfuls of salt. Boil gently for five minutes, then skim the ketchup and pass it through a fine hair sieve. When cold, bottle the ketchup for use; the corks must be put in tightly and sealed down. (3) Take one hundred fresh Oysters, boil them in their own liquor till all the goodness is extracted, then strain, and measure the liquor. Add to it half what it measures of port wine and half what it measures of sherry. Put wine and liquor together into a saucepan over the fire and add six anchovies, 1 drachm of ginger, and Joz. each of allspice, mace, and white pepper: boil all together for a- quarter-of-an-hour or twenty minutes. Have ready a large jar with the thinly-pared yellow rind of a lemon, a piece of horseradish cut small, and twelve shallots in it; pour the boiling ketchup over these, let it stand till cold, and then bottle it, dividing the spice among the bottles. Cork well. Oyster Loaves.—Beard and cut some Oysters into halves; put them in a stewpan with their strained liquor, 1 wine- glassful of white wine, and a moderate quantity of gravy; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a moderate quantity each of grated lemon-peel and pounded mace. Stew them gently, and when cooked put in about loz. of butter in small pieces. Cut the tops oil' some small French rolls, scoop out the crumb, put the rolls into a stewpan of boiling butter, and fry until crisp and brown Rub the crumb of the rolls up finely and fry that also. Drain the rolls, and fill them Oysters—continued. with the Oyster mixture ; place them on a hot dish, put the crumbs round, and serve. Oyster-and-Macaroni Pudding.—(1) (Baked).—Put 5oz. of macaroni into a saucepan of boiling salted water, cook for twenty minutes, then take it out and drain. Take a 3 pint pudding-basin, butter it well inside, put in half the macaroni, place two dozen Oysters on the top, put 3oz. of butter pulled in pieces on these, sprinkle over salt and pepper to taste, and cover with the remainder of the macaroni. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a basin, make it into a thin paste with a little milk, beat in an egg, pour in more milk to make the quantity of it used 1 breakfast-cupful in all, and add a little of the strained Oyster liquor. Pour it all over the macaroni, put the pudding-basin into a moderate oven, bake for about twenty minutes, when it should be done, and serve. (2) Put a layer of stewed macaroni in a deep dish, place some Oysters on the top, and sprinkle over a little cayenne and grated lemon-rind. Pour over 1 gill of cream, cover all with breadcrumbs, put the dish in the oven, and bake to a light brown. When done, serve very hot, with 1 sauceboatful of piquant sauce. Oyster Omelet.—(1) Put half-a dozen Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, and scald them ; take them out, drain, and cut them into quarters. In the meantime put the yolks of three eggs into a basin, beat them to a cream, and add 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, 1 table-spoonful of milk, and lastly the Oysters. Beat the whites of the three eggs to a stiff:' froth, and stir them in together with 1 table-spoonful of melted butter. Put lioz. of butter into a frying-pan, and when it has melted pour in the contents of the basin, and hold the pan over the fire until the omelet is set. Give the pan a vigorous shake, ease the omelet from the bottom with a knife, hold the pan in front of the fire for a few minutes to let the upper part set, then fold it over, place it carefully on a dish, and serve hot. (2) Open the shells of four Oysters, beard them, and put them on a sieve to drain. Break two eggs into a basin, sprinkle over a little pepper, and flavour with a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Put loz. of butter into an omelet-pan, let it melt, toss the pan so as to spread it, and when it comes to the boiling-point pour in the eggs and stir well to incorporate with the butter; when half done, place the Oysters on one half, cover with the other part, and cook for a minute or two longer; then turn it out on to a very hot plate, dust with salt, and serve at once. (3) Scald eighteen Oysters in their own liquor made boiling hot; drain, return them to the saucepan, moisten with }2 pint of German sauce, and season with l pinch of salt. Make a plain omelet with twelve eggs, turn the sides over towards the centre, and fill the middle with the Oyster preparation. Turn it over on to a hot dish, pour the rest of the sauce round, and serve very hot. Oyster Pancakes.—Put 1 pint of wheat-flour into a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt. Stir in gradually \ pint of strained Oyster liquor and h pint of milk, mix the batter until quite smooth, then add two beaten eggs and a few Oysters. Put a good-sized lump of lard into a frying-pan, make it hot, then drop in the batter in table-spoonfuls. Fry tbe pancakes till delicately browned on both sides, take them out carefully, and drain them on paper. Put a folded napkin or a dish-paper on a hot dish, put the Oysters on it, and serve. Oysters with Parmesan. -Drain the Oysters as free as possible from liquor; spread a dish thickly with butter, lay the Oysters on it, strew finely-minced parsley over them, season with pepper, pour ^ glass of champagne over them, and cover thickly with grated Parmesan cheese. Put the dish into the oven, and when nicely browned on the top drain the fat carefully off the Oysters and serve while very hot in the same dish. Oyster Patties.—(1) Large.—Make a crust with lib. of flour and 41b. of butter. Put 3 pints of Oysters in a stewpan with half their own liquor and h pint of milk. When