THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 98 6 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. cover with more breadcrumbs to about the same thickness (viz., -Jg-in.), and roll them up into a cork shape, keeping them as nearly as possible of uniform size. Beat the whites of three eggs so as to mix them without frothing, and stir in 1 table-spoonful each of oil and water and sufficient salt and pepper to taste. Dip the croquettes in this, roll them in more breadcrumbs, and lay them on a plate to dry ; then place them in a frying-basket in a pan of boiling fat, and when they are nearly done turn them over so as to have them coloured evenly a light brown. When they are done and crisp, sprinkle them over with salt, put them on a dish, and serve with a garnish of parsley. (5) Chop some Mutton very line, roll it into little balls with egg, brush over with egg, cover them with breadcrumbs, and plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling lard and fry until done a- light brown. Take them out, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a garnish of parsley. (6) Partially boil ‘21b. or 31b. of French beans in salted water, drain and chop finely, then dredge some Hour over them, and put them in a basin. Finely mince lib. of Mutton, season it with pepper and salt, and fry it in butter. Mix the minced meat with the beans, add four or five eggs, beat them well together, and season the mixture with salt and pepper. Melt a lump of fresh butter in a frying-pan, then put in I table-spoonful at the time of the minced mixture, turn it to fry on both sides, and brown them nicely. When cooked, arrange the cakes on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fri >d parsley, and serve very hot . Mutton Cup Pie. Make Hlb. of paste, divide it into eight pieces, each of which roll out as thin as possible. Partially boil four or live onions, then drain, and chop them finely. Chop a small quantity of mushrooms, and put them, together with the onions and a lump of butter, into a frying-pan, and fry till brown. Finely mince a piece of Mutton, fry it for a few minutes in butter, and add to the ab >ve. Place four of the Hats of paste over each other, moistening between them with 1 spoonful of warmed butter, then put the mince mixture over in small quantities, a short distance from each other. Moisten the paste round the mincemeat with a paste-brush dipped in water, then cover with the remaining pieces of paste; press over each lot of mincemeat with a teacup, and cut round. Butter a baking-tin, lay the pies on it, baste them with warmed butter, and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked and nicely coloured, arrange on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, and serve. Mutton Custard for Consumptive Invalids. Skin and chop 2 >z. of Mutton-suet, put it into 1 pint of fresh milk, together with l drachm of cinnamon or a little grated nutmeg. Set it over the fire and let it boil, then draw it to the side till the scum rises, and skim it care- fully. Half a teacupful of this may be taken either warm or cold three or four times a day. Mutton Cutlets (Italian Style).—Take the cutlets off the best end of two necks of Mutton which have been hung until very tender, and trim off a little of the fat. Season them on both sides with salt and pepper, brush over with a paste brush dipped in beaten egg, and roll them in fine stale breadcrumbs. Egg and breadcrumb them again, then roll them in warmed butter and more breadcrumbs; beat them between the hands, and trim round carefully with a knife. Put a lump of butter in a frying-pan or Hat stewpan on the fire, and when melted and spread put in the cutlets and fry until nicely browned on both sides; there must be a brisk fire, or they will lie too much browned before they are cooked through. When taken out of the fat, drain them a minute or two on a sheet of kitchen-paper, lay them on a hot dish, pour a thin Italian sauce over them, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Finan^iere. Trim the cutlets, and lard them with strips of bacon. Line a stewpan with the trimmings of bacon and a few slices of vegetables, put in the cutlets together with a bunch of sweet herbs, cover them with two or three slices of bacon, and moisten with a little stock. Stand them over a moderate fire, put hot Mutton—continued. ashes on the lid of the stewpan, and braise them slowly. Put 2oz. of chopped raw ham into a saucepan with some trimmings of truffles and mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a few peppercorns. Pour in h pint of -white wine and h pint of stock, and boil until tlie liquor is reduced to half its original quantity. Stir loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a small saucepan over the fire until browned, then mix in gradually 1 teacupful of stock, and stir it until boiling and thickened. Strain the reduced liquor through a fine hair sieve, mix it with the thickened stock, and boil up again. When cooked, drain the cutlets, and arrange them on a hot dish. Pour the sauce over, and serve while very hot. Mutton Cutlets a l’lnciienne. (1) Procure chops cut from the best end of a neck of Mutton, trim off most of the fat, make the bones as (dean as possible by scraping them, and dust them over on both sides with salt and pepper. Smoothly mash some cold boiled potatoes, moisten them very slightly with milk, spread a layer of them over both sides of each cutlet, smo (thing them carefully with the Hat part of the blade of a knife, completely covering the me it, and brush over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg. Put a rather large lump of lard or butter into a Hat stewpan, place it on the fire, and when blue smoke rises put in the cutlets and fry them until deli- cately browned on both sides. Drain them as they are cooked on a sheet of paper, arrange them in a circle lean- ing against a fried bread crouton on a hot dish over which has been laid an ornamental dish-paper with the edge turned up, put a group of fried parsley in the centre (see Fig. 1227), and serve. (2) Peel and boil ‘21b. or 31b. of potatoes, mash them when cooked but not too much done, mix with them half their bulk of Hour, and work the whole into a smooth paste with fat. Cut some cold Mutton into small pieces, put it in the centre of the paste together with a sprinkling of finely-minced onions, and roll the paste up round it, shaping it like a ball, and then flattening it slightly. Put a go >d supply of clarified fat or lard in a Hat stewpan over the lire, and when blue smoke rises carefully drop in the cutlet and fry it gently until veil done and evenly browned; then put it on paper for a minute to drain, and serve on a dish covered with a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, and garnish with a few neat sprigs of parsley. Mutton Cutlets a la Jardiniere.—(1) Peel three or four young carrots and turnips and cut them into small balls with a vegetal de-cutter ; boil these as well as a few button- mushrooms, French beans (cut into pieces about lin. long), and green peas separately in stock. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 go id table-spoonful of Hour and stir it over the fire until browned, then pour in gradually 1 pint of stock and continue stirring until boiling. Drain the vegetables when three-parts cooked, put them into the thickened stock, and let them simmer gently until quite tender. Boil a firm white head of cauliflower in clear water with a small lump of salt in it, trim the cutlets neatly, beat them slightly with a cutlet-bat, and season with salt and pepper. Put 2oz. of butter into a frying- pan on the fire, and when hot lay in the cutlets and fry