52 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Ortolans—continued. pepper, and grated nutmeg. Hollow out the centre of as many large truffles as there are birds, then mask them interiorly with a small quantity of chicken forcemeat. Place an Ortolan, the breast upwards, in each of the truffles, put them in a stewpan, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, then pour in, in equal quantities, some Madeira and mirepoix. Put the lid on the stewpan, and let the contents simmer for twenty-five minutes. Shape a round croustade out of bread, fry it in plenty of fat till lightly coloured, then drain it and fix it on a dish. When cooked, drain the truffles, pile them in the croustade, and garnish round the dish with fried parsley (see Fig. 67). Strain the cooking-liquor of the truffles, skim oft' the fat, and boil Fig. 67. Ortolans in a Croustade. it till reduced to half its original quantity; then pour in lqt. of Spanish sauce, and boil till reduced to a thick creamy consistency. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and serve in a sauceboat with the Ortolans. Ortolan Patties.—Make six patties of tart-paste in fluted moulds made with hinges so that they will open to let out the patty-crusts when done; fill them with flour, and bake. When set, take them out of the moulds and let them get cold. Place at the bottom of each 1 table-spoonful of royal salpifon, and then place in each patty two well- picked, fine, fat, raw, seasoned Ortolans, covered with a slice of thin bacon; lay them on a small baking-pan, place in a moderate oven, and bake for fifteen minutes. Re- move from the oven, take oil' the lard from the birds, moisten each patty with 2 table-spoonfuls of hot Madeira sauce, and serve on a hot dish with a folded napkin placed over it. Roasted Ortolans.—(1) Pluck and singe one dozen or so Ortolans, make a hole in the sides and take out the gizzards, but do not draw them. Stuff the heads into the holes, wrap them round with thin slices of fat bacon, and put them hi front of a clear fire to roast. Let them remain for from ten to twelve minutes, sprinkle over with salt, arrange them on a dish on erofitons of fried bread, and serve. They may be wrapped in vine-leaves (freshly gathered) if preferred instead of the bacon, which destroys the delicate flavour to a certain extent. A rich sauce should be served with them. (2) Dress and prepare one dozen or so Ortolans, and put them hi to a saucepan with a small quantity of butter. Cover the pan, and toss it over a quick fire for a few minutes, when they will be quite done. Put them on a dish, and serve. (3) When the birds have hung until they are quite tender, pluck, singe, and truss them like quails, but do not draw them; bind a vine-leaf round each bird, fix them on a spit, and roast hi front of a clear fire. Put in the pan under each bird a slice of toast, and baste them continually with butter. Prepare the following gravy for them: Put into a stewpan with a sufficient quantity of clear stock a few strips of thinly-pared orange-peel, the juice of the orange, a few basil-leaves, and 1 wineglassful of port wine; season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil it gently for fifteen minutes. When the birds are cooked, place them on a hot dish with a piece of the toast under each, strain the gravy, and serve it in a sauceboat with the birds. Stewed Ortolans.—Pluck, draw, and slightly singe one dozen Ortolans; chop off their heads and feet. Scoop out some of the inside of twelve truffles, stuff them with forcemeat, arrange them at the bottom of a saucepan, and place the Ortolans—continued. birds on them on their backs. Cover them with slices of fat bacon, pour in 1 breakfast-cupful each of port wine and veal stock, put the lid on the pan, and cook for twenty minutes or so; then take out the birds and truffles and put them m e very slow oven to keep warm. Strain and skim the liquor, reduce it to half its original quantity, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of Spanish sauce, and reduce again. Cut off twelve small rounds of bread from a household loaf, toast them, and plunge them into the sauce to soak. Put them on a dish, place the truffles and Ortolans on them, and serve with a little of the sauce poured over. Timbale of Ortolans with Truffles.—Take out the pouches from one-dozen-and-a-half Ortolans, chop oft' their legs, necks, and wings, singe them, and remove their gizzards by making the lower aperture a little wider, and fill them with a salpifon of truffles mixed with fat bacon and parsley. In the meantime, line a timbale mould with short paste, and cover it over with a thin layer of pork, chopped fine and mixed with truffles in ‘the propor- tion of 2oz. of truffles to Mb. of pork. Put the birds into a saucepan with a little bacon-fat, toss the pan briskly over a clear fire for two minutes to let them set, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and take them out. Cover with a little good glaze, arrange them in the hollow of the mould, cover with forcemeat, and lastly with a round of the paste. Put the mould into a hot oven and bake for an hour, taking care not to give it much colour. Put f breakfast-cupful of Maderia wine into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs and a small quantity of truffles, put the pan on the fire, cover, and boil until the liquor is reduced to one-half its original quantity. Strain through a sieve, and mix in its equal bulk of melted glaze. Take the timbale out of the oven when done, make a small incision at the top, pour the glaze, &c., in, close up the hole, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. ORVIETO.—An Italian wine prepared in Umbria and the Palatine Marshes. OSWEGO.—A preparation of cornflour, so called after the American town in which it was first manufactured. It is said to be exceedingly pure, digestible, and nu- tritious. Oswego Biscuits.—Put 2oz. of melted butter into a basin with loz. of orange-zest, and stir in the yolks of six eggs and 2 table-spoonfuls of brandy. Work these well with a whisk for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and add 12oz. of Oswego mixed with I teaspoonful of baking-powder. Knead it to a dough, turn it out on to a well floured board, form it into the shape of small twists, put them on a buttered baking-sheet, brush them over with egg, and bake in a quick oven until done. Take them out when quite crisp, let them get cold, and they are then ready for use. Oswego Cake.—Put the yolks of seven eggs into a basin and stir in 12oz. of crushed loaf sugar; beat it well, and add the whites of the seven eggs beaten to a stiff froth and a little -lemon-zest (grated rind). When all these are thoroughly mixed, add 6oz. of Oswego and toy., of baking- powder. Pour the mixture into a Savoy-cake mould, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, turn it out, let it get cold, and it is ready for use. Oswego Pudding. -Break a dozen Oswego biscuits into a basin with a heaped table-spoonful of caster sugar and 2oz. of butter, pour over them § breakfast-cupful of boiling milk, cover with a plate, and leave them until quite soft. Beat two eggs up thoroughly, pour them in with the biscuits, and beat the whole together. Butter a pie-dish, pour the mixture into it, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes or balf-an-hour. Serve hot. OUNCE.—The 16th part of a pound avoirdupois, and the 20th part of a pint. See Weights and Measures. OVENS.—(Ur. Fours; Ger. Backofen; Ital. Form; Sp. Hornos).—These are literally described as places arched over with brick or stone-work, and used for baking, heating, or drying. Although modern ingenuity has con-