41 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <tc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. (5) Add to 3 table-spoonfuls of Orange marmalade -[-lb. of pounded white sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of sifted bread- crumbs, the beaten yolks of six and the whites of three eggs, 4oz. of butter melted to oil, and 1 gill of cream. Mix all these well together. Line a dish with puff paste, pour the pudding into it, and bake in rather a quick oven. Orange-Marmalade Sauce.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Orange marmalade into a stewpan with 2 wineglassfuls of white wine, and place it over the fire until boiling. Strain the sauce through a fine hair sieve, and it is then ready for serving. Orange-Marmalade Souffle.—Mix \ teacupful of arrow- root perfectly smooth with 4 pint of water, stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling, then mix in 1 heaped teacupful of Orange marmalade and sugar to taste. Beat the mixture until somewhat cooled, then beat in, one at a time, the yolks of eight eggs. Whisk the whites of ten eggs and stir them in lightly at the last. Turn the Fig. 55. Orange-Marmalade Souffle. mixture into a mould, and bake it in a quick oven. When nicely risen and browned over the top, take the souffle out of the oven, dust it over with caster sugar, pin a napkin round the mould (see Fig. 55), and serve at once. Orange Meringue.—Thoroughly wash and pick over 4 lb. of the best rice, put it into a saucepan with plenty of Fig. 56. Orange Meringue. Oranges—continued. the centre, and strain the syrup over. Whisk the whites of the three eggs to a stiff snow with 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and spread it over the Oranges (see Fig. 56). Dust a small quantity of caster sugar over the whole, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Serve on the same dish. Orange Mould.—Peel five or six large Oranges, scrape off' all the white pith, and divide them into quarters, being careful not to break the skin. Put ilb. of loaf sugar into a stewpan with 1 teacupful of cold water, and boil it to the crack. Butter a mould, dip the quarters of Oranges in the syrup, and arrange them round the sides, putting them closely together, and leave until cold. Pick care- fully over equal quantities of fresh strawberries, rasp- berries, and currants. Whip 1 pint of cream to a stiff froth, turn the shape formed by the Oranges out of the mould on to a fancy dish, fill it with the fruit, pile the whipped cream on the top, and serve. If carefully arranged, the above makes a very elegant dish. Orange Nougat.—Mix together l|lb. of strained honey, 11 lb. of confectioners’ sugar, and a small quantity of water; put it over a moderate lire and let it cook till a little of it thrown into cold water is brittle. Stir in then the well- beaten whites of three eggs, and continue to stir till the mixture forms a stiff paste; then work in 2 table-spoonfuls of Orange marmalade and 1 pint of almonds, blanched and cut small; the grated rind of an Orange or two may also be added. Spread the nougat on oiled papers, lay it between two boards, and when cold cut it into square pieces. Orange Paste.—The Oranges should be previously steeped in water for two or three days. Afterwards put them into a saucepan with fresh water, and boil until tender. Drain the Oranges, cut them into halves and scoop out the insides. Put the peel in a mortar, allowing for each pound lib. of caster sugar, and beat it until smooth. Remove the skin and seeds from the pulp, pound it with an equal quantity of caster sugar, and add to the pounded peel. Put the paste into pots and tie them over till wanted. To make a pudding with the above paste, put Jib. of butter in 4 breakfast-cupful of boiling water and leave it until cool. Afterwards mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of the paste, three well-beaten eggs, and 2oz. of caster sugar ; thicken it by stirring in 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, mixing it perfectly smooth. Butter a shallow dish, and line it with a good puff paste; fill it with the Orange paste, and bake in a moderate oven. This pudding is equally nice eaten either hot or cold. Orange Pastille Drops.—Put 3Joz. of coarsely-sifted sugar into a saucepan, stir in 4oz. of water, and add |oz. of Orange sugar. Put the pan on the fire, and stir well; when the sugar begins to dissolve, remove the pan from the fire, stir for a minute or so longer, and then proceed as follows: Hold the pan with the left hand, pour the mixture out slowly, using a piece of bent wire to cut off the drops about the size of peas, arranging them in rows close together upon a sheet of stiff paper; when they are set, turn the paper upside- down, damp it, and let the pastilles drop from it. Put them on a sieve over a slow fire, shaking now and then. When quite dry, bottle and cork them down securely, and keep in a cold dry place until wanted. Orange-peel Chips.—Put the peels of several Oranges in a saucepan, first cutting them into small equal-sized pieces, water, and place it over the fire. When the water boils, drain it o f the rice, and pour in its place lqt. of milk, add Jib. of crushed loaf sugar and the thinly pared rind of one lemon, and stew the rice gently at the side of the fire until almost dry. Peel the rind off six Oranges, and put it into a saucepan with some thick syrup made with loaf sugar and a small quantity of water ; place the lid on, and let the rinds steep for twenty minutes at the side of the fire. Trim off all the white pith of the Oranges, and remove their seeds, by coring them like apples. When the rice has cooled, mix with it the beaten yolks of three eggs; put a layer of the rice on a flat dish, pile the remainder up to form a kind of wall, place the Oranges in cover with water, and boil. When soft, drain, and lay them on a sieve until dry. Put fib. of lump sugar in a saucepan with just as much water as it will absorb, place