15 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oatmeal—continued. and roll out very thin. With a round tin cutter about 2in. in diameter cut the paste into rounds, lay them on baking-sheets, and bake quickly in a brisk oven. When cooked, leave the biscuits until cold, then pack them in biscuit-tins, and keep them in a dry cupboard. A few served on a plate at luncheon are general favourites. See Fig. 16. Oatmeal Bread.—Rub Jib. of butter into l^lb. of flour, and when smooth mix in 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sugar, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and |lb. of Oatmeal. When thoroughly mixed make a well in the centre, in which put 2 table- spoonful;-; of brewers' yeast; cover with a cloth, and stand it in a warm temperature for an hour to rise. Afterwards work the mixture up with sufficient warm milk to form a dough, divide it into equal-sized portions, and mould them into flat round cakes (see Fig. 17); lay them on baking- dishes, a short space between each, and bake them. When cooked, split the cakes open, butter them well, then close them again; put them on a hot dish, and serve quickly. Oatmeal Cakes (Large).—(1) Rub 17,lb. of lard into 71b. of Oatmeal mixed with lilb. of flour and lioz. each of cream of tartar, bicarbonate of soda, and salt. Turn the mixture on to a board or table, make a hollow in the centre, and pour in sufficient cold water to make it into a stiff" dough. Take about £lb. of it, form it into a cake, cut it into quarters, put it on a baking-tin, and bake in a sharp oven until quite done. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Oatmeal into a basin and stir in with it 1 teaspoonful of salt and sufficient water to make it into a stiff' paste. Strew a small quantity of Oatmeal over a paste-board, put the paste on it, and mould it well with the hands, shaping it into a thin, round cake. Make an iron griddle hot, lay the cake on it, and place it over a clear fire. When one side of the cake is browned, turn it over quickly and brown the other side. (3) Mix well together 3oz. of Oatmeal, 7oz. of flour, 1 table spoonful of salt, and J saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda; melt 3 >z. of lard over the fire in a saucepan, and stir it well into the mixture together with an egg beaten up with 1 table-spoonful of water. Roll the paste out very thin, lay it on a greased baking-tin, and bake it for twenty minutes in a hot oven. The temperature at the oven door should be 240deg. (4) Small.—Mix a little bicarbonate of soda and salt in with lib. of Oatmeal, and rub in 4oz. of lard, dripping, or butter, whichever is prefefred. Add 1 teacupful of water to make it into a dough, turn it out on to a board well sprinkled with meal, and knead it slightly. Roll it out to the thick- ness of a penny piece, cut it into rounds with a biscuit- cutter, put them on the hot stove or griddle, and when they are done on one side hang them in front of the fire to brown the other side. They are then ready for use or may be put away in boxes and kept in a dry place; in the latter case they should again be made crisp by holding them in front of the fire for a few minutes before serving. (5) Put lib. of Oatmeal in a basin, pour over it 1 pint of sour butter-milk, cover the basin with a cloth, and leave it until the following day. Mix 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 1 teaspoonful of salt with lib. of flour, then work it well in with the Oatmeal. Roll the paste out to the desired thickness, divide it into small | Oatmeal—continued. cakes, and bake them in a moderate oven. When cooked and cold, the cakes should be put in tins. (6) Mix 1 saltspoonful of salt with h teacupful of Oatmeal, moisten it to a stirt' paste with cold water, and knead it lightly; strew Oatmeal over a paste-board, put the mixture on it, roll it out as thinly as possible, and bake over a clear fire, turning it with a slice when done on one side. When cooked, dry the cake in front of the fire for a minute, and proceed to make others in like manner, the paste being made in small quantities on account of its drying quickly. Keep the cakes in biscuit-tins. Oatmeal Cake with Cheese (American).—Cut an Oatmeal cake into quarters, put a thin slice of any kind of cheese on each part, and toast in a very slow oven; on the top of each place a poached egg, dust over with pepper, and serve hot. Oatmeal Cocoa.—Mix smoothly |lb. of the finest Scotch Oatmeal and fib. of cocoa separately, with a small quantity of boiling water; stir these together, and pour in gradually 3galls. of boiling water. Add half a lemon cut in slices, leave it until cold, then mix with the liquor a moderate quantity of milk, sweeten to taste, and it is ready for serving. Oatmeal Cream.—This is a refreshing and stomachic cream. Pour lqt. of water into a saucepan and put in 8oz. of fine Oatmeal and a little salt; set the sauce- pan on the lire, and boil gently for three hours. Strain the liquor through a cloth or very fine sieve into another saucepan, add 3 pints of white broth and a little sugar, boil it up again, then remove the pan to the side, anti keep it hot. Let it remain for an hour, then acid a little raw cream and a small lump of butter, turn the cream out on to a dish, and serve with small pieces of fried bread. Oatmeal Drink.—Put 2oz. of the coarsest Oatmeal into 2qts. of cold water and boil it for half-an-hour; next strain the liquor and sweeten to taste with moist sugar. If served hot, flavour with cloves or lemon-peel boiled in it; if served cold, flavour with lemon-juice. Oatmeal Dumpling.—Make a paste of Oatmeal and butter, mixed together with cold water, form it into a dumpling, put in a haddock’s liver well seasoned with salt and pepper, tie it in a floured cloth, and boil. Oatmeal Gruel.—(1) Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of Oatmeal to a smooth paste by adding 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of water ; stir in 3 breakfast-cupfuls of milk or water, pour it into a saucepan over a slow fire, and cook gently for an hour, or a little more if required, stirring frequently and from the bottom of the pan. When done, turn it into a basin and serve. It may be strained if the thick sediment is objected to. (2) Pour 1 breakfast-cupful of cold water over 2oz. of Oatmeal in a basin, stir it, let it stand for a minute or so, and then pour over a similar quantity of boiling water, stirring all the time. Strain it through a conical sieve into a saucepan and boil for ten minutes. Stir in a small piece of butter and 1 table-spoonful or so of sugar, and serve very hot. (3) Mix 3 teaspoonfuls of Oatmeal in a little cold milk, and add a very small quantity of salt—about | saltspoonful. Boil the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon in 4 pint of milk, and while it is boiling add by degrees the Oatmeal and milk, stirring all the time. Let it boil gently for ten minutes, add sugar to taste, stir in 14 table-spoonfuls of brandy and it is ready for use. Oatmeal Mush.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of coarse Oatmeal into the top part of a double boiler with 1 teaspoonful of salt and nearly lqt. of boiling water, and boil over the fire for ten minutes, stirring all the time with a wooden fork. At the end of that time place the upper boiler into the one containing hot water, and cook for an hour if preferred soft; but if liked very dry, cook for nearly three hours. Just before serving, remove the cover from the top boiler, stir the contents once, and leave it for a few minutes so that the steam may escape. Turn the mush on to a hot dish, and