TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 49 Orange-flowers—con tinued. bottle a vigorous shake, and let it stand for a month. Filter and bottle for use. Orange-flower or Neroli Flavouring.—The oil of Orange- flowers, a very fragrant aromatic, frequently used in lemonade, although Orange flower water is better. Orange-flower Pastilles.—Pound some dried Orange-flowers to powder, and then pound with them some gum dragon dissolved in equal quantities of water and Orange-flower water. Add and mix in powdered white sugar till the paste is sufficiently thick, make it into lozenges or drops, and dry them. Orange flower Pralines.—(1) Take some perfectly fresh white Orange-flowers, pick them, and lay them in cold water. Take double the weight of the Orange-flowers in loaf sugar, clarify it, and boil to the blow (see SUGAR boiling) ; put in the flowers, having drained them from the water, stir them till the sugar again reaches the blow degree, then take the pan off' the tire, but continue stirring till the sugar separates from the flowers and turns to powder; set the pan on a stove till the pralines are dry, and lay them on a sieve that the loose sugar may sift away from them. Put the flowers into bottles and keep them in a dry place. (2) Well wash and dry 61b. of Orange-flowers, put them into a saucepan with 31b. of sugar boiled to the blow degree (see Sugar-boiling), then reduce the sugar to the feather degree, taking care that the flowers are continually covered. Remove the pan from the fire, and continue to stir until the sugar grains, then put the flowers in the hot closet to dry, rubbing them frequently with the hands and mixing them up with abrut lib. of sifted crushed loaf sugar, so as to enlarge and whiten them. Put them into bottles, cork down securely, and they are ready for use. Should they be required very white and large, when they have been cooked in the sugar tv rn them out on a sieve to drain, then put them on a sheet of paper, and mix them with about Hlb. of caster sugar. Place them in the hot closet to dry, stirring frequently, and when quite dry, bottle, and cork them up for future use. Orange-flower Puffs. -Prepare a good pancake batter and mix with it sufficient Orange-flower water to flavour nicely and moist sugar to taste; put a lump of butter into a frying-pan, and when it boils pour in a layer of the batter, Fig. 62. Orange-flower Puffs. and fry like pancakes. When all the batter is used, dust the puffs over with caster sugar, put them on a hot dish oyer which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper (see Fig. 62), and serve. Orange-flower Punch for Weddings. -Put 1 liqueur- glassful of noyau into a bowl packed in ice, stir in 1 pint of lime-juice syrup, next add 1 tumblerful of Orange-flower water (distilled), the same quantity of elder-flower water, and lqt. of thin syrup. When these are well incorporated, pour in 2 bottles of soda-water, and serve immediately. Orange-flower Souffle. -Put a little flour into a basin and work it into a thin paste by adding milk and cream in equal proportions Turn it into a saucepan, boil it, and when the flour is done sprinkle in a little caster sugar and salt, and mix in a small quantity of pounded dried Orange-flowers. Stir in a lump of butter, the yolks of six eggs- and when they are well mixed add the well-whipped whites, of the six eggs, pour it all into a souffle-dish, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, sprinkle over a little sugar, salamander it, and serve quickly. Orange-flowers—continued. Orange-flower Sugar.—Put |lb. of candied Orange-flowers into a mortar with lib. of sugar, pound well, pass it through a fine sieve, put it into bottles, cork, and it is ready for use when required. Orange flower Syrup.—(1) Boil Hlb. of loaf sugar to the large pearl (see Sugar-boiling). Put lib. of picked Orange- flowers into a basin, pour the boiling syrup over them; put a plate over the basin, and let the contents infuse for a few hours, afterwards draining off the syrup. Boil another 1 till, of loaf sugar to the large pearl, and pour it while boiling ov er the Orange-flowers in the basin. Let them infuse for the same length of time as before, then strain ofl' the second lot of syrup and mix it with the first. When quite cold, filter the syrup, pour it into bottles, and cork them tightly. (2) To every \ pint of Orange-flower water mix 14oz. of granulated sugar, and stir constantly till dissolved. Strain and bottle the syrup. Orange-flower Tablets.—For every 41b. of Orange flowers use 21b. of double-refined sugar; clarify the sugar, and boil it to the feather (see Sltgar-BOIling). Cut up the Orange- flowers, moisten them with lemon-juice to preserve their whiteness, put them in the sugar, boil it again to the feather, then move the pan off the fire. In five minutes’ time, stir the sugar and work it well against the sides of the pan until it becomes glossy, then stir it gently into the centre. Pour the syrup into a shallow pan that has been lined with stout cartridge-paper, and when it has cooled a little mark it with a knife into tablets. When quite cold, break the tablets apart where marked, and put them in bottles or tins for use. ORDINARY.—This term is applied to a dining-room or eating-house (hence to the meal itself) where a meal is prepared for all comers at a fixed price for the whole service; being thus distinguished from a meal where each dish is charged separately, or a, la carte. ORGEAT.—This name was taken from the French orye, and signified therefore little else than medicinal barley-water, which was sometimes flavoured with lemon or almond, the latter flavour obtaining the greater popu- larity. By degrees the almond flavour displaced the barley, so that Orgeat is now little else than almond- milk flavoured and qualified to suit various tastes. The following receipts show the various methods of making it, and its adoption for flavouring other compounds: (1) Boil a piece of stick cinnamon in lqt. of new milk; take the milk from the fire, pick out the cinnamon, and let the milk stand till cold. Blanch 2oz. of sweet almonds, put them into a mortar and pound to a paste, adding a little rose-water to prevent them oiling. When the milk is cold, stir into it the pounded almonds and sugar to taste, set it over the fire, and boil for fifteen minutes, not longer for fear it should become oily. Strain it through a fine sieve, and serve either warm (not hot) or cold in glasses. (2) Put 2oz. of blanched sweet almonds into a mortar with one or two bitter ones, pound them to a pulp, add- ing 1 teaspoonful of orange-flower water to prevent* oiling. Now pour in 1 pint each of milk and water, sweeten to taste, and a very refreshing drink is obtained. (3) Blanch 6oz. of sweet and loz. of bitter almonds, and put them into cold water for several hours to soak. Take them out, drain diy, wipe them on a cloth, and pound to a pulp in a mortar, adding 4 teacupful of orange-flower water to prevent them oiling. Put 3 pints of water into an earthenware pan or basin, add the almond pulp and 41b. of caster sugar, mix well, cover the pan, and let them remain for an hour. Strain it into a pan packed in ice, and it is ready for use. (4) Pour boiling water over 2oz. of sweet and -Joz. of bitter almonds, slip them from their skins, and put them into cold water. Dry them in a cloth, place them in a mortar, and pound, moiste ing with a little milk. When the almonds are well pounded, mix with them by degrees 14 pints more milk, add powdered white sugar For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <i*c., referred to, see under their special heads. VOL. IT. E