163 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Pickles—continued. selection of the materials or the mode of preparing them by pricking with a fork as if pecked. Home-made Pickles are always the best, greater care being generally bestowed upon the preparation, and better materials selected. Large vegetables must be cut into small pieces, and for Fig. 211. Vegetable-Slicer for Pickles. this purpose an ordinary knife may be used on a chopping board; or a knife fastened at the point to a swivel pin set into a piece of stout board (see Fig. 211) will be found expeditious in its working. A very important part of pickling is the salting or brining, which should be thoroughly effected, or the Pickles will be soft and flabby. Some Pickles are merely covered with salt, having been freely pricked with a fork, as in the case of green walnuts; others are soaked in strong brine, and in order to soak them effectually they should be placed in an earthen crock, three-parts filled with brine, with an inverted plate laid over them and a brick on the top of the plate (see Fig. 212). When Pickles are served at table it is usual to put a small quantity in a flat glass dish, and place by their side a fork (see Fig. 213) of silver or electro-plate. When served in jars, however wide the mouths may be. Fig. 213. Pickle-fork Adams and Son). considerable difficulty is usually experienced in securing the particular Pickle desired by the consumer. American Mixed Pickles.—Procure seventy-five small cucumbers and 1 pint of small martinoes, and wipe them with a damp cloth. Cut the cucumbers lengthwise into quarters, and the martinoes into halves. Scald arid peel 1 pint of button onions, wash one small cauliflower, a quarter of the rind of a water-melon, and K pints of green string beans. Break the cauliflower into small pieces, and cut the melon-rind about the size of the pieces of cucumber. Dissolve 3 teacupfuls of salt in 2qts. of cold water, put the pickles in a large earthen vessel, and Pickles—continued. pour the brine over them, adding more cold water if not sufficient to cover them. Put a plate over the Pickles, with a weight on the top, to keep them under the brine. In two days, take the Pickles out of the brine and wash them in cold water. Wash and scrape 2oz. of horseradish- root. Pack the Pickles and horseradish-root in a firkin. Tie in a bag \ table-spoonful of white mustard-seed, 4 table-spoonful of stick cinnamon broken into ^in. lengths, h table-spoonful of whole cloves, 1 teaspoonful of pepper- corns, 1 teaspoonful each of allspice and whole mace, and h teaspoonful of celery seed. Put the bag of spices and, ioz. of alum in a porcelain kettle (earthenware jar will do as well), pour in lqt. of white wine vinegar, and boil them for ten minutes. Skim it carefully, then pour in lqt. of boiling water, and turn all at once over the Pickles, leaving the bag of spices on the top. Put a plate with a weight on it over them to keep them under the vinegar, and stand the vessel in a cool place. In two weeks add 1 wineglassful of brandy. The Pickles will be ready to use in a montri. Trench Pickles.—Slice I peck of green tomatoes, cover them plentifully with salt, and leave them for one night. Cut \ peck of onions into slices, and put a thick layer of them in a bell-metal kettle; then put in a layer of tomatoes, next a layer of onions, and so on till all are used. Sprinkle between each layer some of the following spices: 4oz. of white mustard-seed, loz. each of cloves, allspice, and celery- seed, and 1 table-spoonful of cayenne pepper; add also lib. of brown sugar and 4 table-spoonfuls of mixed mustard. Cover the above ingredients with vinegar, and boil them well for one hour. At the end of that time, pack the Pickles in jars and pour the vinegar over them. When the Pickles are quite cold, tie some stout paper over the jars, and put them away for use in a dry store cupboard. German Pickle.—(1) Put 1 pint of vinegar into a sauce- pan with 41b. of crushed loaf sugar, two or three sticks of cinnamon, and 1 teaspoonful of cloves; boil the vinegar till reduced to a syrup, then drop in one at a time lib. of damsons that have been carefully picked over and wiped. As the skins of the damsons crack, take them out and put them into stone or earthenware jars, filling them three-parts full. When all are done, strain the syrup, pour it over the damsons, and leave them till cold ; then cover the jars with paper, tying it tightly round them, and pack them in a dry cupboard. (2) Take 71b. of fruit—peaches, pears, damsons, plums, or cherries will do. If damsons or plums are to be pickled, they must lie pricked with a coarse needle to prevent their skins bursting. If pears are chosen, they should be small sized and firm in flesh, they need only be pared. Boil together in a saucepan lqt. of vinegar, 31b. of brown sugar, loz. of stick cinnamon, 4oz. of cloves, and half-a- dozen blades of mace, and pour it boiling hot over the fruit; then fasten a cover tightly over it and let it stand twenty-four hours. Pour the liquor off, boil it, and pour it again over the fruit. Next day, put fruit and all over the fire, scald it, and it is done. This Pickle should be kept in a dry cool place. Green Pickles.—(1) Make a brine of salt and water, so salt that a fresh egg will float in it, put into it the vegetables to be pickled, green tomatoes, gherkins, snap- beans, cucumbers, green foxgrapes, &c., and let them remain in it for a fortnight (a longer time will not hurt them). They must be kept well covered with grape-leaves, and sufficient weight must be put on the top to keep them well down in the brine. When the vegetables are taken out of this brine they must be steeped in weak vinegar for several days, then put over the fire in 2qts. of strong vinegar (which quantity will be sufficient for 4 peck of vegetables), 2oz. of long pepper, 2oz. of mustard- seed, loz. of celery-seed, hoz. of cloves, 4oz. of mace, three red pepper-pods, 1 dessert-spoonful of scraped horseradish, and sugar to taste; when this boils, have the Pickles drained from the weak vinegar and put into jars, and pour the vinegar over them boiling hot. (2) Take nice medium-sized cucumbers, pour over them boiling hot sufficient strong brine to cover them, and let For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. M 2