988 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. cupful of rich gravy and a few drops of lemon-juice over the cutlets ; put in a small piece of glaze, simmer for a few minutes, then hake. Boil the gravy until reduced to a glaze, dip the cutlets in it, coating them well, and leave them until cold. Put 2 breakfast-cupfuls of clear stock into a stewpan together with 1 wineglassful of sherry and j wineglassful of tarragon vinegar; add J2oz. of gelatine which has been steeped in cold water for about lialf-an- liour, and boil the whole for a few minutes. Clarify the jelly with white of egg, and strain it through a jelly-bag until quite clear. Pour a layer of the jelly into a plain round mould, and leave it until cold and set. Then take the cutlets and stick them in, in such a way that they overlap each other, but without touching the sides of the mould. Fill up the mould with the remainder of the jelly, which should have been kept in a liquid state, and keep it in a cool larder, until cold and firm. When ready to serve, dip the mould into warm water to loosen the jelly at the sides, turn the contents out on to a dish over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper, and garnish with neat sprigs of parsley (see Fig. 1228). Mutton Cutlets Sautes served with a Macedoine of Vegetables.—Take a dozen cutlets, sprinkle salt over, and cut them to an equal shape. Put them in a stewpan with some clarified butter, place a little butter on each, and surround them with buttered paper. Fry them until done, then drain and glaze. Take a croustade, fill it with a macedoine of vegetables, place the cutlets round, and it is ready for table. Mutton Cutlets Sautes with Potatoes.—Take twelve cutlets, trim them to an equal size, and dust them with salt. Put some butter into a saute-pan, lay in the cutlets, with a little butter on each and covered round with buttered paper. Fry them until done, then take them out, drain and glaze them, and put them on a dish in a circle. Take some good potatoes and cut them into jin. balls, and fry in butter until done. Place them in the centre of the circle of cutlets, pour over some Chateau- briand sauce, and serve. Mutton Doopiaja. —Put 3oz. of fat into a frying-pan, warm it, add ten or twelve large onions cut up into thin slices, fry them, remove them from the pan, and add a curry composed of the following ingredients: 4 teaspoonfuls of ground onions, 1 teaspoonful each of ground chillies and turmeric, j teaspoonful of ground ginger, and 1 tea- spoonful of ground garlic ; brown these slightly, put in 2lb. of the meat from a shoulder of Mutton cut up into thin slices and 14 teaspoonfuls of salt, pour over 1 break- fast-cupful of water, and simmer gently over a slow fire for an-hour-and-a-lialf. Turn the Mutton on to a dish, and serve with the onions spread over. Mutton Duck.—Choose a fore-quarter of Mutton without any of the leg-bone chopped off, and cut well from the backbone and ribs and high up over the shoulder, so as Fig. 1229. Mutton Duck. to take in the whole of the shoulder-blade, bone, and gristle. Scrape the meat from the shoulder-blade and separate the blade at the joint. Remove the meat from the leg-bone, roll it over as it is cut, taking care not to cut through the skin, and when within 3in. of the lower joint saw off Mutton—continued. the bone and trim the bone below the joint into the shape of a duck’s bill. Bind the joint carefully without breaking the skin, wipe the meat with a cloth, and rub it inside with a little salt. Put a little forcemeat stuffing in between the layers of meat, and with a needle and string pull the edges of the meat together, fill the inside with a little more stuffing, and form the meat into the shape of the body of a duck (see Fig. 1229), bending the leg at the lower joint to look like the head, keeping it in place with skewers. Put a skewer through the side at the top of the body and one into the body on each side of the neck, and fasten the bill in its place with string tied to the skewers. Scrape the shoulder-blade perfectly clean, sharpen the bony end to a point, notch the gristle at the bony end, and put it into the body to represent the tail, fastening it in its place with string. Put all the pieces of bone and meat into a saucepan of water and place the dish containing the imita- tion duck in a steamer over it and steam for an hour over a quick fire. Take it out, sprinkle over flour, salt, and pepper, and put it iuto an oven on a baking-dish to bake for an hour, by which time it should be quite brown, basting it with a little of the liquor out of the saucepan. Before putting this into the oven, cover the head and tail with pieces of paper to prevent them burning. When done take it out, place it on a dish, garnish with forcemeat balls and parsley or potato croquettes, and serve. Mutton Fritters.—(1) Rub 3oz. of butter into 6oz. of flour, add a little salt, and make it all into a paste with the white of an egg and the yolks of two. Roll it out to about rin. in thickness, put some minced Mutton upon it at distances apart, brush it lightly over with egg, cover it with a similar flat of the paste, cement the edges together, and cut it into shapes with a fluted biscuit-cutter; brush them over with egg, cover with breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry until done a light brown; put them on a dish covered with a folded napkin, and serve hot. (2) Cut off as many slices of cold cooked Mutton as required, dust them copiously with salt and pepper, plunge them into a frying-pan with sufficient boiling fat to cover, and fry. When done, drain, and serve. Mutton Ham.—(1) Cut off the six best chops from a hind- quarter of Mutton and shape the rest like a ham ; mix together 2oz. each of coarse brown sugar and common salt and 1 teaspoonful of saltpetre, squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, make the mixture hot over the fire, then rub the Mutton well with it. Keep the Mutton in a cool larder until the following day, when it should be again rubbed with the mixture. Boil in lgall. of water lib. of salt, jib. of bay-salt, jib. of treacle, jib. of the coarsest brown sugar, 3oz. of salpetre, and 2oz. of salprunella. Skim the liquor when boiling, then put in 3oz. of juniper-berries. When cold, pour the liquor over the ham, press it down with a heavy weight, and leave it for three weeks, turn- ing it' every three days. At the end of that time, take the Mutton out and dry it on a cloth. Press it under a heavy weight for two days and nights, when it should he hung up and smoked in the same manner as hams. When ready to cook the Mutton, put it in a saucepan of water and boil for about two hours. When cooked, leave it in the water until cold. (2) Procure a hind-quarter of Mutton that has been hung for three days and trim it to the shape of a ham. Putin a mortar jib. each of common salt, bay-salt, and coarse brown sugar, and 2oz. of saltpetre ; pound well, and sift them through a fine sieve on to a sheet of paper, which put into a cool oven for a minute just to get warm. Rub the meat well over with this mixture and leave it for twelve days, turning and rubbing it well, and after the first three days putting over it 2oz. more of common salt. At the end of that time drain it from the pickle, wipe it on a dry cloth, then smoke it over wood smoke for seven days. (3) Take a Mutton ham weighing 201b. or 251b. ; mix together 2oz. each of black pepper and saltpetre, and jib. of coarse sugar. The second day after the killing rub this mixture well into every part of the ham for ten minutes, lay it on a Hat dish or deep stone trough, and cover with