970 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <l-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mustard—continued. then add 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley. This sauce must not be allowed to boil. (5) Mustard sauce made as follows is served with beef: After the beef has been boiling for two hours, take 1 pint of the broth from it to use for the sauce. Peel and chop a bunch of chives, a shallot, or two or three small green onions, and put them over the lire in 1 pint of broth to boil for an hour ; then add 1 table-spoonful of diy Mustard, 1 gill of vinegar, and a high seasoning of salt and pepper. Stir the sauce until it is thoroughly incorporated, and keep it hot until required for use. (6) Put about 2oz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and mix them over the fire; pour in 1 breakfast-cupful of hot water, season to taste with salt and pepper, and mix in 1 teaspoonful of Mustard pre- viously moistened with a small quantity of vinegar. Stir the sauce over the fire, and when it begins to boil it is ready for serving. A few chopped capers or pickles may be added if liked. (7) Melt ‘2oz. of butter in a saucepan over the fire, then dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour and stir it until browned. Mix 3 table-spoonfuls of brown Mustard to a smooth paste with a small quantity of water, stir it into the flour and butter, and add 1 breakfast-cupful of brown gravy, 1 wineglassful of vinegar, and a small quantity of salt and sugar. Stir the sauce over the fire, and when it boils and is smooth and of a creamy thickness it is ready for serving. Two or 3 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced shallots may be added to the sauce if liked. Piquant Mustard.—Peel and slice an onion, put it in a saucepan with two or three thinly-sliced cloves of garlic, two bay-leaves, 1 teaspoonful of crushed peppercorns, a few cloves, a sprig of tarragon, and 1 pmt of the best vinegar; season with salt, and boil the whole together for ten or fifteen minutes. Leave the vinegar until cold, keeping the lid on the saucepan; then stir in sufficient Mustard to make a stiff paste, and pour the mixture into small jars, which should be tightly corked and tied down with paper. Mustard prepared as above may be kept for a considerable time. Spiced or Aromatic Mustard.—(1) Mix 2 table spoonfuls of powdered Mustard with 1 teaspoonful each of flour and sugar, and half the quantity each of salt, pepper, cloves, and cinnamon, and stir them into a smooth paste with boiling vinegar. Add a little salad-oil, and in a few hours it will be ready for use. (2) Peel two moderate-sized onions and cut them into thin slices; put them in a jar with four bay-leaves and a few thin slices of garlic, pour over them 1 pint of tarragon vinegar, and keep the jar closely covered for two days. At the end of that time, turn all the above ingredients into a saucepan, and boil them; strain the vinegar, return it to the saucepan, mix in 2oz. of coarsely-crushed loaf sugar, and boil it up again. Mix 1 teacupful each of brown and yellow Mustard, i table-spoonful of salt, 1 teaspoonful of Jamaica pepper, and | teaspoonful of finely- powdered cinnamon, and add the boiling vinegar, stirring well with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. If too thick, add more vinegar. Put the Mustard mixture into small jars, over which pieces of bladder should be securely tied, and keep in a cool place. In a fortnight’s time the Mustard will be ready for use. (3) Put 1 pint of vinegar in a saucepan with an onion, a clove of garlic, h dessert-spoonful of crushed cloves, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, J table-spoonful of salt, two or three bay-leaves, and a very small quantity each of powdered cinnamon and black pepper. Boil the above ingredients slowly for ten or fifteen minutes, then strain the vinegar and mix it with sufficient Mustard to make a smooth, creamy paste. Put the mixture into small jars and keep it for a fortnight in a cool place before using. MUSTARD and CHESS.—The first sprouting from the seeds of the Mustard, combined with those of the cress-seed, or by themselves, make a valuable addition to our salads, especially those prepared for breakfast service. MUSTARD PICKLES.—See Pickles. MUTTON (Fr. Mouton; Ger. Hammelfleisch; Ital. Castrato; Sp. Carnero).—The term itself is derived from the French mouton, having been introduced to us by the Norman conquerors. Second only in importance to beef is the flesh of the sheep. During the first few months of its existence the flesh is known as lamb, and some years ago Mutton was not considered to be in its prime until it was four or five years old; but a four- year-old wether is now rarely heard of, for the cost of keep for so long would render the meat too expensive, considering that the quality would be so little superior to that which was killed two or three years earlier. By successful breeding farmers are now able to produce sheep which reach maturity in foiu-teen months. Welsh Mutton differs in this particular because these sheep are of such a roving disposition as rarely to accumulate fat; but when fattened in the uplands of Herefordshire, Worcestershire, and Shropshire they gain flesh rapidly, and are then prime for killing. Southdown Mutton is very famous for quality, and next to it come Leicestershire, Lincolnshire, Cotswold, and Shropshire Mutton. These are large sheep and are second to the Southdown in quality. The flesh tastes rather strong of the wool, a peculiarity of long-woolled sheep, especially at certain times of the year when the wool is longest. Mutton imported from Germany and Spain are sometimes palmed off upon unwary cooks as first-quality Mutton, but in reality the flesh of these foreigners is inferior to our second qualities. No flesh differs so much as Mutton, and this depends not only upon the breed, but also upon the sex, age, and pasture. Ewe-Mutton, in the autumn, when not more than two years old, is often nearly as good as wether-Mutton under similar conditions. Ewes that have had two lambs are more often killed than those which have only had one. They are therefore more aged, and if it were possible to get a glimpse of the teeth the jaws would be found to hold eight, each fully developed. In the younger sheep the eight are not all developed. Ram-Mutton is sometimes sold to the unini- tiated, but it will always prove coarse, woolly-flavoured, and tough. The colour of the flesh is deep bluish-red, and the fat is spongy. The udder on the belly between the legs is the distinguishing characteristic of ewe-Mutton, the wether having a similar lump of marrowy fat. Good Fig. 1213. Sheep Divided into Joints. Mutton is in season all the year round, although at its lowest ebb in autumn, the meat then partaking some- times of the woolly taste before described. The carcase is cut up by the butcher (see Fig. 1213) first into quarters (1, 2) and a head (5); this latter is usually included amongst the offal. Then we have two fore-quarters and two hind-quarters or haunches. The haunch is again cut up into leg (6) and loin (7), the double loin without the legs forming a saddle (see Fig. 1215). The fore-quarter is cut up into shoulder (4) and breast (3), and the neck and scrag end (8). The various qualities and values of these parts are fully described in the following receipts. See Boning, Carving, &c. Baked Breast of Mutton.—Sew up a breast of Mutton in a very thin cloth, put it into a stewpan, pour over sufficient