132 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, iIce., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. add six medium sized oranges, peel them, slice them rather thin, taking out all the pips; arrange the Peaches and oranges in alternate layers on a dish. Sprinkle over them , plenty of finely-powdered white sugar, pour the syrup over, and serve. Compote of Peaches with Rice.—(1) Boil some rice and slightly sweeten it, flavour with vanilla, and mix up the yolk of an egg with it. Prepare a compote of Peaches. Put the rice in small pats on a dish, place half a Peach on each, pour the syrup over, and serve. (2) Split nine Peaches into halves, take out the stones, and plunge the Peaches in boiling water to loosen their skins; drain, peel, put the Peaches in a basin, and cover them with syrup at 3Udeg. (see Syrups). Wash Jib. of rice, blanch it for eight or nine minutes, then drain and refresh it; put it in a stewpan with sufficient warm milk to cover it, adding more milk as that dries up. When the rice is nearly cooked, put it in together with a stick of vanilla, cut in pieces, and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar. Take the saucepan off the fire and keep it covered for ten minutes. Butter a border-mould; mix 3 table-spoonfuls of butter with the rice and put it in the mould, pressing it well down. Keep the rice warm for ten minutes, then turn it out of the mould on to a dish, fill the centre with the halves of Peaches, building them in a pyramid shape. Reduce some of the syrup with a little apple juice and pour it over them. Blanch and peel some sweet almonds, split them into halves, stick one on each Peach, and serve, with the remainder of the syrup mixed with a little maraschino in a sauceboat. Dried Peaches.—(1) Cut some Peaches into halves and put them in a preserving-pan with some syrup at 22deg. (see Syrup) ; let them simmer for a few minutes till the skins can be easily removed; take them out, peel, and put them back in the syrup; boil for a few minutes, then turn all into a basin and let them be till the following day. Drain the syrup off the Peaches, boil it up again, then pour it over them. Proceed in this manner the two following days. Put the Peaches on drainers, dip a camel’s hair brush in prepared cochineal or carmine, paint the Peaches lightly over, and set them in the screen to dry. Boil 11,1b. of sugar to the pearl degree [see Sugar-boiling), drain the juice of a lemon in with it, and work the sugar at the side of the pan with a spoon until it becomes whitish, then put in the Peaches and shake them gently about. Take each piece out with a fork, arrange them on the brass drainer, anti set them in the screen at a moderate heat to dry. In about an hour’s time pack the Peaches in card- board-boxes, with a sheet of white paper between each layer. (2) Get the Peaches just before they are ripe, peel them and take out the stones. Put the Peaches in boiling water, and leave till they are a little soft, then take them out and throw them into a bucket of cold water. When cold, drain, and weigh them, and to every pound of Peaches, use Jib. of caster sugar. Put the Peaches in a preserving- pan with the sugar, and leave them till enough syrup has run from them to allow of their being put over a slow fire. Boil the Peaches gently till they look very clear, then turn them into a large basin, and leave all night. On the following day, put the Peaches in dishes and set them in the sun or in a warm place to dry, turning them every day. When quite dry, pack them in boxes or jars. (3) Select perfectly sound ripe Peaches, cut them length- wise into halves, and remove their stones. Thread a large needle with very strong thread or twine and pass it through the halves of Peaches. If possible, hang the Peaches in the sun; but, if otherwise, they should be hung in a strong current of air. When quite dry pack the Peaches away in bottles. Tried Peaches.—Take ten or twelve firm ripe Peaches. Have ready on the stove a frying-pan with melted lard to the depth of rather more than Jin. Cut the Peaches in halves and take out the stones. When the lard is smoking hot, put the fruit in the pan, the cut side down, fry them a light brown, and as soon as the side next the pan is done turn them without letting them break and cook the other Peaches—continued. side. As soon as they are hot through take them up, put them on a hot dish with their cut sides up, place a little powdered white sugar in the hollow of each, and serve hot. Frosted Peaches.—Take two dozen ripe Peaches and rub the fur oft' with a soft cloth. Beat the whites of half-a- dozen eggs and 1 teacupful of water to a stiff froth and dip the Peaches into it, one at a time, rolling each one immediately in powdered white sugar, and then laying them, stem end downwards, on white paper laid on a tray in a window well exposed to the sun; when half dry roll them again in sugar and place in the sun till quite dry ; then put in a cool dry place till required. Arrange them in a glass dish, and garnish with green leaves. Frozen Peaches.—Take fresh ripe Peaches (large sized if possible), skin them and cut them in halves or quarters, or even smaller pieces if the fruit is very large; dredge over and among every pound of Peaches Jib. of powdered white sugar, put them into a freezer, and when frozen serve them in a glass bowl, sprinkling on top more powdered white sugar. Serve cream with them. Macedoine of Peaches.—Split nine large Peaches, remove the stones, and put the largest pieces into boiling water to loosen their skins. Drain, peel, and put them in a basin. Prepare a syrup, flavouring it with vanilla, and when cold pour it over the Peaches. With the smallest pieces of the Peaches make a puree, pass it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it 1 tumblerful of sweet jelly. Wash lib. of rice and boil it in plenty of water; when tender, drain, and pour over it some syrup flavoured with vanilla. Cut out some little balls of apples with a vegetable-cutter and boil them in a little weak syrup; drain, and put them in a basin with a little prepared carmine and 2 table-spoonfuls of vanilla-flavoured syrup, and let them soak in it for half-an-hour. When ready to serve, drain the Peaches, stir the purtle over ice to thicken it, and mix the rice, well drained, with it; fill the halves of the Peaches with the puree and rice; drain the balls of apples, cut them in halves, and arrange them round the prepara- tion in the halves of Peaches, with one piece on the top. Brush all over with half set jelly, fix a gum-paste mound with a support in the centre on a round dish, and garnish with croutons of orange jelly; arrange the Peaches in a circle on the mound, putting one in the middle, and serve. Peaches au Gratin.—Tinned or fresh Peaches can he used; if the latter, they must be cut into halves, their stones removed, and stewed with plenty of sugar and a small quantity of water. Thickly butter a shallow dish; drain the Peaches from their syrup, lay them in the dish, cut side downwards, and strew over them plenty of finely- grated breadcrumbs. Mix with the syrup J wineglassful of noyau and a small quantity of strained lemon-juice; pour it over the Peaches, strew more breadcrumbs over the top, and. baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter. Put the dish in a brisk oven and bake until lightly browned over the top. Serve the Peaches in the same dish, accompanied by a jug of frothed cream. Peach-and-Apricot Fritters.—Cut some ripe Peaches and apricots in halves and take out the stones; divide them in quarters and peel them; put them in a basin, sprinkle a little caster sugar over, pour in a little cognac, and let them steep in it for half-an-hour. Drain the Peaches and apricots, dip them in frying-batter, and fry them a few at a time in boiling butter. Drain, anil arrange them on a hot dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve. Peach. Bavaroise.—Mash lqt. of canned Peaches, pass them with the juice through a fine hair sieve, and mix in 1 breakfast-cupful of caster sugar. Soak Joz. of gelatine in 1 teacupful of cold water for two hours. Put the Peaches in a lined saucepan and let them simmer for twenty minutes, stirring often. Mix the gelatine with the 'Peaches and remove them from the fire at once. Whip 1 pint of cream to a froth. Stand the saucepan with the Peaches in a bowl of ice water, and beat them till they begin to thicken, then stir in the cream. When thoroughly mixed,