37 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Oranges—continu ed. or the eggs will curdle. Mix 1 teacupful of whipped cream with the custard, turn it into a freezer, and work it until frozen. Afterwards put it into a mould and pack in pounded ice and salt for an hour or two. Before serving, dip the mould into hot water, taking it out again at once, wipe it, and turn the ice on to a fancy glass or china dish. Orange Cream Trifle.—Put one dozen or two of macaroons in the centre of a glass dish and soak them with white wine. Mix the grated rind and the juice of two small Seville Oranges with lqt. of thick cream, add 2 table-spoon- fuls of Orange-flower water, and sweeten to taste with caster sugar. Whisk the cream to a still' froth, then turn Fig. 50. Orange Cream Trifle. it over the soaked macaroons, piling it as high as possible. Stand the dish over ice or in a cold place for two or three hours, then ornament it with strips of green citron (see Fig. 50), and serve. Orange Croquenbouclie.—Remove the peels and pith from seven or eight large Oranges, divide them into quarters, take off the inside pith, and place them on a sieve to dry. Put lib. of loaf sugar into a sugar-boiler, add A pint of ! water, put the pan on the fire, and when the sugar has dissolved add 1 pinch of cream of tartar. Boil to the crack degree (sec SUGAR-BOILING), and dip in the quarters of Oranges, holding them gently by one end; arrange them on a strainer or pastry-grill, let them drain, dip them again into the sugar, and arrange in a well-oiled croquenbouche-mould. They should be put in rows in an upright position, and fixed to one another by dipping them lastly into hot sugar. When they have set and the sugar is quite cold, remove the mould, and serve on a napkin spread over a dish. Orange Cup.—Peel about half-a-dozen Oranges, remove all the white pith, and divide them into sections; then remove the pips and the thin membranes from them. Put 6oz. of caster sugar in a saucepan with the juice of two Oranges, and stir it over a slow fire with a wooden spoon until it has dissolved but does not boil ; take it off the fire and leave until cold. Arrange the pieces of Oranges in a glass dish. Mix sufficient water with the syrup to form a nice sherbet, flavour with a few drops of essence of Orange- liowers, and pour it over the Oranges; put in a few lumps of ice, and serve with a ladle. See Fig. 51. Orange Custard.—(1) Put the thinly-pared rinds of two Seville Oranges into a stewpan with some water and boil them until tender. Drain the peel, and pound it to a smooth paste in a mortar. Strain the juice of four Seville Oranges, mix it with the peel, and add 1 wineglassful of brandy, 1 lb. of caster sugar, the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of six. Beat the mixture thoroughly, stir in lqt. of milk, pour the whole into a lined stewpan, and stir it over a moderate fire with a wooden spoon until thickened, but not quite boiling. Pour the custard into glasses or a glass dish, and serve. (2) Boil the thinly-pared yellow rind of half a Seville Orange in plenty of water until tender, then drain and pound it in a mortar. When quite smooth, mix with the yolks of four eggs the strained juice of a Seville Orange, 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and A wineglassful of Oranges—continued. brandy. Beat the whole together for sixteen minutes, then work in gradually 1 pint of boiling cream. Continue beat- ing the mixture until cold, then pour it into cups; stand them in a flat pan, surround with boiling water, and place them over the fire. When the custards are set, ornament the top of each with a preserved Orange. Serve either hot or cold. (3) Squeeze the juice of ten large sound Oranges into a lined saucepan, sweeten with a few table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and stir over the fire till on the point of boiling. Skim the juice and leave it until nearly cold. Beat the yolks of ten eggs well, mix them with 1 pint of cream, and stir them in with the Orange-juice. Place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir the contents until thick, but not boiling. Serve the custard when cold. (4) Put |oz. of gelatine into a basin with 1 breakfast- cupful of milk and let it soak for two hours. Beat up the yolks of six eggs with fib. of granulated sugar. Put 1J pints of milk into a double boiler, and when it boils pour in the gelatine and then the eggs, stirring continually for five minutes or until it thickens; turn it into a basin and let it cool. Peel off the rinds from half-a-dozen large Seville Oranges, cut them into halves, take out the pips, and remove all the hard parts. Arrange them in a glass dish, pour over the custard, let it remain for eight hours or so, then cover it with 6 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar beaten gradually into the whites of six eggs whisked to a stiff froth, and serve. Orange Custard Fritters. Put lib. of flour into a basin, and stir in gradually, keeping it quite smooth, lqt. of milk and five well-beaten eggs. Turn the batter into a saucepan, and stir it over a moderate fire for twenty minutes with- out letting it boil; then move it to the side, and mix in 4 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, I table-spoonful of finely- chopped Orange-peel, \ saltspoonful of salt, and the well- beaten yolks of five eggs. Butter a baking-slieet, and when the custard is well mixed, spread it over about lin. in thickness. When cold, cut it into equal-sized pieces, dip them in beaten egg and then in finely-grated bread- crumb, and fry them in butter till a golden brown. Drain the fritters, dust some caster sugar over, put them on a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Oranges for Dessert.—(1) Peel the Oranges and trim oil' the white part, being very careful not to break the fruit. Put some caster sugar in a dish, about lib. for two dozen Oranges, and pour over it sufficient cochineal to give it a bright pink colour; place it in front of the fire until well dried. Roll the Oranges in the sugar, giving them a good coating all over, then arrange them carefully in a raised glass or dessert-dish (see Fig. 52), and serve. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dee., referred to, see under their special heads. i/t Rs; r y UBRARY LEEDS