128 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Feas—continued. and boil them very gently. In about three-quarters-of-an- hour’s time remove the onion, turn the Peas on to a liot dish, and serve. (2) Put the Peas in a stewpan with two small lettuces washed and cut up, 2 table-spoonfuls of chopped onion, a few sprigs of mint, and about h teacupful of oil; add 1 dessert-spoonful of moist sugar and a sufficient quantity of water to cover the Peas. Stew them gently until tender, taking care that they do not become too dry. When cooked they should have a yellowish brown appear- ance; turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Cut up small three cabbage lettuces, first washing them well, put them into a stewpan with a rasher of ham or bacon, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, 2oz. of butter, lqt. of green Peas, and a small quantity of chopped mint (1 teaspoonful of powdered white sugar may be added to the Peas if liked). Put the stewpan at the side of the fire, and let all stew very slowly till the Peas are half done, then add 1 pint of good gravy. When the Peas are nearly cooked thicken with butter and Hour, stir till quite thick, and then add the yolks of two eggs beaten up with 1 gill of cream. Stir till thoroughly hot, and then serve. (4) Peel and chop two or three onions, wash a lettuce, and cut it into thin shreds; melt Jib. of butter in a stew- pan, then put in the above vegetables with lqt. of freshly - shelled green Peas; add a small quantity of finely-chopped mint, season to taste with salt and pepper, and stew gently until tender. When the Peas are cooked, move the stewpan to the side of the fire and stir in the yolk of an egg that has been beaten up with 2 table-spoonfuls of milk. Turn them on to a hot dish, and serve while very hot. (5) Put lqt. of green Peas and Joz. of butter into a saucepan, pour over as much warm water as will cover them, and let them stand (but not over the fire) for ten minutes; then strain off the water, cover the saucepan, and stir frequently. When they begin to get tender, add a bunch of parsley, 1 dessert-spoonful of powdered white sugar, loz. of butter with 1 teaspoonful of flour rubbed into it, and a young onion. Keep stirring occasionally till the Peas are tender. If they get too thick add 1 table- spoonful of hot water. When tiie Peas are done take out the parsley and onion, and serve hot. Stewed Green Peas with Bacon.—Remove the rind from Jib. of streaky bacon; cut the bacon into small pieces, blanch them for a few minutes, then drain; put them in a saucepan with loz. of butter, and fry for five minutes; put 1 table-spoonful of flour in with the bacon, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then add lqt. of young green Peas, one onion, and 1 pint of water. When the liquid is boiling, put the lid on the saucepan, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents stew gently for half-an-hour; take the onion out, skim the fat off the liquor, add salt and pepper to taste, turn all into a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Green Peas and Buttered Bggs.—Put 2 break- fast-cupfuls of freshly-shelled green Peas into a stewpan with loz. of butter, 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste, and stew over a gentle fire until quite tender. Beat three eggs thoroughly, and when the Peas are cooked stir them in quickly; turn the whole on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or croutons of bread fried in butter, and serve. Stewed Green Peas with Cream.—Put in a saucepan loz. of butter well kneaded with 1 table-spoonful of flour, dissolve it, then add 3qts. of shelled young Peas, a bouquet garni, a quarter of a bunch of chives, 1 pinch of salt, and l pinch of pepper; cook in their own liquor for twenty minutes, then take the saucepan of!' the fire. Pour the gravy from the Peas into another vessel, add to it 4 breakfast-cupful of cream and 1 teaspoonful of powdered loaf sugar; pour this sauce over the Peas, and beat up once again (without boiling) for two minutes before serving. Stewed Green Peas and Ham.—Cut some ham into small squares and fry them with some slices of onion in a saucepan; then put in the Peas and sufficient broth to cook them in. When done (the time will depend on the age of the Peas), thicken the liquor with 1 table-spoonful Feas—continued. of flour that has been kneaded with butter; turn all on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Green Peas with Spanish Sauce.—Put some young Peas in an earthenware pan with a small piece of butter and plenty of fresh water; rub them well with the hands, then drain. Put them in a stewpan with a bunch of parsley and two or three green onions, place the lid on, ami let them sweat. When nearly done, pour in with the Peas 1J teacupfuls of Spanish sauce, season with sugar and salt, skim off all the fat, and boil the sauce till reduced; thicken it with the beaten yolks of two eggs, and serve. This is a very flavoursome dish, and should be freely garnished with a border of small croutons of bread fried in bacon-fat. Sugar-Peas.—These are quite a variety by themselves, the pods not having the inner film peculiar to all other Pea-pods. They are consequently more fleshy and crisp, and admit of being cut and dressed like French beans, or in other ways in which the pod is cooked with the Peas. There are several varieties of Sugar-Peas, the best being Butter-Pea, Dwarf Dutch, Early Dwarf Brittany, Forty Days, Giant, and Large Crooked. Boiled Sugar-Peas.—Put the required quantity of Peas in a saucepan of water, leaving them in their shells, and boil for half-an-hour. Drain the water off the Peas and put a lump of butter in with them; beat the yolks of two eggs with a small quantity of cream, then stir them in with the rest, adding a few drops of vinegar; when quite hot (do not let them boil again), turn the Peas on to a hot dish, and serve. Stewed Sugar-Peas.—(1) Boil 2qts. of young Sugar-Peas, and when done, drain them. Put them in a stewpan with six young green onions, IA teacupfuls of white sauce, 2 teaspoonfuls of fine moist sugar, and a small quantity of pepper and salt; stir all gently over a slow fire and let them simmer for ten minutes ; then stir in the yolks of two eggs beaten with a little cream. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, stir the contents till thick, but do not let them boil again ; take out the onions, turn the rest on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put 2qts. of Sugar-Peas in a large saucepan with six young onions, Jib. of fresh butter, a bunch of parsley, and sufficient water to cover the Peas; rub them together for a few minutes with the hands, then strain otl the water, and put in 1 table-spoonful of moist sugar and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Place the saucepan over a sharp fire and toss the Peas about occasionally; a little water may be added if too dry. When the Peas are tender, take out the onions and bunch of parsley; mix 1 table-spoonful of flour with 2 table-spoonfuls of butter and stir it in with the Peas over the fire till thick; then stir in a liaison of two yolks of eggs, but do not let it boil; add more seasoning if required. When moderately thick (it should be neither too thick nor too thin), turn the Peas on to a hot dish, and serve. (3) Wash the pods, shred them like French beans, cut them into pieces about lin. long, and stew them gently with butter, allowing 2 table-spoonfuls to each quart of Peas, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and enough water to prevent burning. They will cook tender in from twenty to thirty minutes. Serve them in their sauce. Sugar-Pea Salad. -Pick some Sugar-Pea pods when they are about lin. or so in length; put them into a dish with an equal quantity of garden cress, and arrange some slices of tomatoes on the top (see Fig. 177). Prepare a plain dressing of oil and vinegar, season with salt and pepper, pour it over the salad, and serve.