12 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Noyau, or Noyeau—continued. 4 table-spoonful of strained honey, and H teaspoonfuls of essence of bitter almonds. Let the liquor stand a week longer, shaking it every day. After it has stood for ten days in all, strain it through fine muslin, bottle, cork, and seal the corks. This is a nice flavouring for custards and puddings; it also makes a refreshing summer drink if mixed with ice water. (9) Take a hundred kernels of either peaches or apricots, blanch and bruise them, and put them hi a bottle with a piece of stick cinnamon, 1 teacupful of orange-flower water, and lqt. of brandy. Keep the bottle in a warm temperature for seven or eight days, removing the cork occasionally, and shaking the contents of the bottle. At the end of that time place the bottle in a cool temperature and leave it for three months. Put lib. of loaf sugar in a small lined saucepan with 2 pints of water and the juice of one lemon. Beat the white of an egg with the shell, put it in the saucepan with the sugar, and boil the whole until reduced to a thick syrup. Skim the syrup and pour it into the bottle of Noyau. The syrup must not be made and mixed with the Noyau until the expiration of the three months. Strain the whole, pour it into small bottles, and keep them tightly corked till wanted for use. (10) Put into a bottle lqt. of spirits of wine of 62deg. over proof, 4 drops of oil of aniseed, 1 of tincture of vanilla, 3 of oil of roses, and 15 of the essential oil of bitter almonds. Well shake the bottle to thoroughly incorporate, pour in lqt. of syrup, and add sufficient pink colouring to give it the required tint. Filter into small bottles, put in a cool place, ami keep until wanted for use. Noyau Cream.—Blanch about Jib. of Jordan and loz. of bitter almonds, and throw them into cold water; rinse them well, and pound in a mortar with 2oz. of sugar and 1 gill of cream. Mix well together and rub through a hair sieve into a basin; also add nearly 1 pint of whipped cream flavoured with Noyau, and loz. of dissolved isinglass; sweeten to taste, mix well together, and pour into a mould. When set and wanted for use, turn out in the usual way. Noyau Cream Ice.—Stir into 1 pint of cream 3 wineglass- fuls of Noyau, and add a little sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice. When thoroughly incorporated, put the cream into moulds, and place them in the freezer; then turn out and serve. Noyau Honey.—Blanch Jib. of sweet and 2oz. of bitter almonds, and pound them in a mortar with 21b. of caster sugar. Mix them with 1 pint of cold milk that has been boiled, and add the rinds of three lemons, tgall. of gin, and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of honey. Put all into a large bottle or jar, shake daily for ten days, then filter the liquor through filtering-paper; pour it into bottles, cork and seal them, and the honey is ready for use. Noyau Jelly.—(1) Put loz. of isinglass into \ pint of luke- warm water and stir over the fire until dissolved. In the meantime put over the fire lib. of loaf sugar, the juice of half a lemon, and 4 pint of cold water, and boil without stirring until a thick syrup is formed ; mix the syrup and 1 wineglassful of Noyau liqueur, with the dissolved isin- glass, strain the jelly into a mould set in cold water, and allow it to harden before turning it out. Garnish round with preserved peaches and apricots alternately with points of angelica between them. See Fig. 13. (2) Put 2oz. of gelatine into 1 breakfast-cupful of water and let it soak for ten minutes. Take it out, put it into a saucepan with lqt. of water, and dissolve it over a clear fire, stirring continually. When quite dissolved, put in the strained juice of eight lemons, the peel of a lemon cut very thin, 1 gill each of Noyau, brandy, and sberry, and sufficient loaf sugar to sweeten. Stir in the whites and shells of four eggs. Put the pan over a clear fire, and as soon as it boils remove it to the side, cover it over, and let it remain for five minutes longer. In the meantime blanch 3oz. of sweet almonds and put them into cold water to preserve the colour, take them out, wipe them dry, and cut up into long shreds. Pass the jelly through a jelly- bag, continue to strain it until quite clear, and then mix Noyau, or Noyeau—continued. in the pieces of almonds. Fill up a mould with the mixture, set it on ice or in a cool place, and when the jelly is quite firm turn it out on to a dish, garnish with well-whipped cream, and serve. Noyau Jelly with Apricots.—Put 12oz. of sugar into a saucepan with 2oz. of gelatine, and pour over the whites of three eggs moistened with lqt. of water and the juice of a lemon. Put the pan over the fire, stirring it well with a whisk until it boils. Then remove it from the fire, and when it has cooled a little strain it through a jelly-bag into a basin; then pour it back, and strain again until quite clear. Let it get quite cold, and then mix in 1 breakfast- cupful of Noyau. In the meantime put some halves of apricots in a saucepan with a little syrup, cook them, take them out, and put on a sieve to drain. Take the kernels from the stones of the apricots, blanch and peel them, and divide in halves. Set a plain cylinder-mould on ice, fill it with the jelly and apricots put in alternate layers, and sprinkle the halves of kernels round the sides of the mould. Cover the mould with a baking-sheet, pack ice on the top, and when the jelly has remained thus for two hours turn it out and serve. NUDELS.—See Nouilles. NUN’S CAKES.—Nee Cakes. NURSERY BISCUITS.—Nee Biscuits. NUTS (Fr. Noisettes; Ger. Niisse; Ital. Noce; Sp. Nuez). — Although it is said that the kernels of Nuts require the stomach of an ostrich to digest, it is certain that they are general favourites, and are devoured with comparative impunity by all classes. Nuts may be de- scribed as the fruit of certain trees and shrubs, containing within a hard case a kernel more or less pleasing tc the taste, the number of Nuts answering this de- scription is very great. They will be found described under their various headings. The following receipts apply to almost any kind of Nuts, from cocoa-nuts down to those of the hazel. Candied or Crystallised Nuts.—Put 1 breakfast-cupful of sugar into a sugar-boiler with 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and boil to the crack degree (see Sugar-boiling). Put the boiler into a saucepan of boiling water to keep the syrup hot, and dip in the required quantity of blanched Nuts, sticking them on the point of a needle or thin skewer to do so; then put them on a slightly-buttered dish, and let them cool. If they are not sufficiently coated with the syrup, dip them again. When diy, the Nuts are ready for use. Nut Cake.—Put 1 teacupful of butter into a basin, warm it, beat to a cream, and add gradually 1 breakfast-cupful