THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 171 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pigs —continued. them into a saucepan with a little water, and boil slowly at the side of the fire for four or five hours, until the ears and feet are quite done, and all the hones of the latter can he easily extracted; then add 1 teacupful of chopped sage and parsley in equal proportions, \ saltspoon- ful of powdered mace, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of pepper. Put the pan at the side of the fire again, and simmer the contents gently until the herbs are scalded; then pour the whole into a melon-mould, and when set, turn it out, and serve. Pig’s Feet a la St. Menehould.—(1) Procure the four feet from a large fatted bacon hog, put them into a sauce- pan of water, and add one hay-leaf, two cloves, and one onion, and boil gently over a moderate fire until the bones will easily come out (it will take from ten to twelve hours). They should never be allowed to boil quickly, or the meat will become hard, whereas it should be tender and like chicken. A little salt should lie added to the water if the feet are fresh, but if they are salted it will not be re- quired ; they must be soaked in water for three or four hours before being used. Take out the feet when done, divide them down the centre, remove the long bones, and let them get perfectly cold. Dip each of the pieces into a little warmed butter, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, place them on a gridiron, and broil until they are warmed through and the breadcrumbs well browned, turning so as j to cook both sides. When cold, put them on a dish, and serve. If desired, after the long bones have been taken out, the cavity may be filled with a quenelle and trutHe forcemeat, anil the two halves tied back into their original positions and then broiled ; or they may be dipped into frying-batter and fried in boiling fat, either stuffed or plain, but for this way without stuffing is preferable. (2) Steep a dozen small and young Pigs’ feet in boiling water, having first singed them; take them out, scrape them with a knife, and boil again in fresh water for three- quarters-of-an-hour, after having bound them round with broad tape to keep tlie bones together. When cooked tender, put them in a saucepan, with two or three carrots, turnips, onions, or any other vegetable that is in season; pour in \ pint of white wine and sufficient water to cover, and season with a bunch of sweet herbs and a little salt. When the water boils, skim it, stand the saucepan at the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer for twenty- four hours, half-cooking one day and finishing the next. Let the feet remain in the stock till cold, take them out, drain, and unwind the tape; cut each in halves lengthwise, and sprinkle pepper, salt, and a little powdered dried sweet herbs over them. Rub the crumb of some stale bread till very fine; roll the feet in beaten eggs and then in the breadcrumbs, broil over a clear fire, arrange them upon upon a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. Pig’s-Feet Salad.—Boil four Pig’s feet until tender, then drain them, and leave till cold ; separate the meat from the bone, cut them into medium sized pieces, pour a plain salad dressing over them, and let them stand in the ice- box for two hours. Put into a salad bowl the bleached leaves of two heads of chicory; chop some leaves of tarragon, chervil, and chives. Put the meat and dressing in with the chicory, strew over the minced herbs, and serve the salad. Soused Pig’s Feet.—Put a couple of Pig’s feet into a basin of boiling water and scald them. Take them out, scrape clean, and remove the covering of the toes. If this cover- ing will not come off easily, hold the toes in some hot embers until it is loose. The feet may lie placed in a weak solution of lime-and-water to whiten them, but this is not essential. Put them into a basin of water, wash thoroughly, drop them into a saucepan of water, quite hot but not boiling, and sprinkle in a little salt. Set the pan on the fire and boil gently for about an-hour-and-a- half, or until by placing a fork in the flesh it will easily break and the bones drop out. Skim frequently, take out the feet, and put them into a deep dish with 1 pint of the liquor mixed with enough vinegar to nearly cover them. Season with six peppercorns, four cloves, and a little mace and allspice. Cover over the dish, let them Figs—continued. remain for a few hours, and they are ready for use (see Fig. 223). Fig. 223. Soused Pig’s Feet. Soused Pig’s Feet and Ears.—(1) Boil some Pig’s feet and ears until they are tender and the ibones will slip out. Throw them into cold water, take out the bones, and pack them in a jar. Boil with the jelly liquor an equal quantity of vinegar, salt to season, cloves, cinnamon, and pepper to taste, and pour it while boiling on the souse. When wanted for use, make it all warm, and serve; or dip each piece in batter, and fry in hot butter. The latter way is usually preferred, and gives it the qualities of tripe. (2) Clean the required number of ears and feet (an equal quantity of each), put them into a bowl of cold water, and let them soak for several hours, and afterwards boil till quite tender. Take them out, put them into another bowl, and pour over a pickle composed of part of their cooking stock, a quarter that quantity of vinegar, and a little salt, all boiled together and allowed to get cold. When suffi- ciently pickled, drain and dry them, split the feet in halves, cut the ears into slices, flour them and fry in butter ; or they may be dipped in batter and then fried. Serve hot, with a sauce made of butter, vinegar, and mustard. Stewed Pig’s Feet.—(1) Put four boiled Pig’s feet cut into halves into a saucepan with Joz. of butter, simmer for five minutes, add 1 pint of poulette sauce, heat without boil- ing for five minutes, and serve with a little chopped parsley sprinkled over. (2) Clean and split some Pig’s feet, boil them until tender, and put them into a stewpan with sufficient gravy to cover. Add an onion sliced, a few sage-leaves, whole black pepper, allspice, and salt, and stew for forty minutes. Strain off the gravy, thicken with flour and butter, add 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar or 1 dessert-spoonful of lemon- pickle, and serve it hot with the feet. (3) Place a couple of thin slices of bacon at the bottom of a stewpan, put in the feet with a blade of mace, a few peppercorns, two or three sprigs of thyme, and a sufficient quantity of good gravy to moisten them to height, and boil gently. When quite tender, split each foot lengthwise into halves, and lay them open on a hot dish; strain their cooking liquor into a small saucepan, mix with it a small lump of butter that has been kneaded with Hour, and the bacon from the stewpan, first cutting it up into small pieces. Let the sauce simmer at the edge of the fire for two or three minutes, then pour it over the feet, garnish them with small crofttons of bread that have been nicely browned in butter, and serve. Stewed Pig’s Feet and Fry.—(1) Simmer the feet, liver, and heart of a sucking Pig in a little water till half cooked. Mince the heart and liver, and split the feet. Put the feet and the mince back into the saucepan with some of the water they have been partly cooked in, and boil very slowly till the feet are quite tender. Then add a small lump of butter rolled in flour, a little pepper and salt, and 1 table-spoonful of cream, and let it boil for ten minutes. Have a few sippets of bread ready in a hot dish, pour the mince over these, and lay the feet on top. (2) Wash and thoroughly clean the heart, liver, lights, and feet of a Pig, put them into a saucepan of water over a clear fire, and boil for fifteen minutes. Take out