TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 150 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Perch—continued. and brisk fire, but let it stand at a very great height above the fire, for the Perch must be cooked well before it is brown. Serve on a bed of fried parsley, garnish with quarters of lemons (see Fig. 198). (2) Scale and clean the Perch, put them in a deep dish, sprinkle in with them some pepper, salt, finely-minced parsley, and sweet herbs; pour a little olive oil over them, and let them steep for several hours. When ready to cook, dip the fish in beaten egg, sprinkle over them finely-grated stale breadcrumbs and minced sweet herbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear fire, turning them so as to cook both sides equally. When done and nicely browned, put the fish on a hot dish, on which has been laid a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper; serve it with oiled butter in which has been stirred a dash of vinegar. (3) Clean the Perch through the gills, wash and dry them, thinly lard the backs, and stuff them with a veal stuffing with a little curry powder mixed in. Wrap them separately in buttered paper, and grill them over a clear fire. Serve on a hot dish with mango chutney and cream sauce in a sauceboat. (4) Clean the Perch carefully, grease a gridiron, and lay them on it side by side. Place the gridiron over a clear fire, and turn the Perch constantly until they are nicely cooked. Melt about 6oz. of butter, beat it up with the strained juice of a lemon, and season it to taste with salt and pepper. When the fish are cooked, lay them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish it with fried parsley, and serve with the sauce in a sauceboat. Fried Perch.—(1) Scale, clean, and wash the Perch, dry them thoroughly and flour them. Put some dripping in a frying-pan, and when boiling put the fish in, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. Put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of butter-sauce (see Sauces). (2) Scrape off the scales and thoroughly clean the Perch, egg them well, and roll them in plenty of bread- crumbs. Put some lard or fat in a frying-pan, and when boiling put the fish in and fry them till lightly and equally browned. Drain the fish, and arrange them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with anchovy or butter- sauce. (3) Scale and clean two Perch, flour them, and season with salt; put them in a frying-pan with some slices of fat bacon, and fry them till nicely browned both sides. Place them on a hot dish, garnish round with the bacon, and serve with any fish sauce preferred. (4) Choose large Perch for this; scale, wash, and dry them, cut them deep into the sides and back, dredge them with flour with a little salt in it, and fry them till they are thoroughly done and perfectly brown. When the fish is ready, make a sauce by melting in a saucepan 2oz. of butter; put in some flour and brown it, some chives and parsley, a few mushrooms, all shred fine, and add a little boiling water. Lay the Perch into a small stewpan, pour the sauce over them, and let them simmer in it two or three minutes; then take them out, and lay them on a warm dish. Add to the sauce 2 table-spoonfuls of capers cut small, thicken it up, and then pour it over the Perch. There is no way in which they eat better than this, the frying giving them a firmness and crispness. The soaking in the sauce does not take this off, although it mellows the flesh very finely, and gives the whole of the flavour of the ingredients that are put in the sauce. Mayonnaise of Perch.—Cut out the fillets of three or four middle-sized Perch and season them with pepper and salt; butter the bottom of a flat stewpan, put the fillets in, pour a little white wine over them, and boil them, keep- ing them rather firm. Take them off the fire when done and leave till cold; then divide the fillets in two parts, put them in a deep dish, sprinkle in some salt and pepper, and pour some oil and vinegar over them; let them steep for an hour. Arrange the fillets in layers on an aspic border, building them in a dome-like shape, and( Perch—continued. masking each layer with mayonnaise sauce. Cover the top with mayonnaise sauce, and serve. Perch a l’AHemande.—Scale and clean two moderately large Perch and put them in a stewpan. Finely mince the red part of a few carrots, some roots of parsley and celery, put them in the st wpan with the fish, with a bunch of parsley, a small quantity of salt, and one onion ; cover the Perch with white wine and let them boil over a moderate fire for twenty minutes. Take the fish out when cooked, drain them, and put them on a hot dish. Take the bunch of parsley and onions out of the stewpan, then put in with the vegetables some finely-minced raw mushrooms, and cook them for five minutes ; then stir in a piece of butter kneaded with flour to thicken it; take the stewpan off the fire, put in it some more butter, cut in small pieces but not kneaded, add the strained juice of two lemons, pour it over the fish, and serve. Perch a la Normande.—Scale and clean the Perch; put some chopped onions at the bottom of a flat stewpan and put in the Perch, with a bunch of parsley, some trimmings of fresh mushrooms, a small quantity of salt, and white wine to cover. When the liquid is boiling, move the stew- pan to the side of the fire and keep the contents simmer- ing for a quarter-of-an-hour. Prepare a garnish with some quenelles, mushrooms, oysters, and mussels, reserving the liquor of the oysters and mushrooms. Drain the liquor off the fish, through a fine hair sieve, into a saute-pan, and boil it till reduced to half; then take the pan off the fire, thicken the sauce with kneaded butter divided into little pieces, stirring all the time ; then add a liaison of three yolks of eggs. Put the Perch on a hot dish, pour the sauce over it, put the prepared garnish round, glaze it under a salamander, and serve. Perch d la Silesienne.—Draw and clean two or three fine Perch, but do not scale them. Put some water in a sauce- pan with a bunch of parsley, a small quantity of vinegar, and a little salt, and boil it; then plunge the Perch into it and boil for twenty minutes. Make the following sauce: Put in a stewpan 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, a few sprigs of parsley, a little tarragon, two chopped shallots, a bay-leaf, and four or five peppercorns. Boil the liquid till reduced to half its original quantity (see Reducing). Leave it till cool, then mix with it 1 teacupful of melted glaze, the beaten yolks of six eggs, |lb. of butter, and a little salt; stir the sauce over a very slow fire to thicken, without letting it boil. Place the sauce in the bain-marie and whisk it, adding gradually some small pieces of butter. When frothy, put in 1 teacupful of brown sauce and about 2 table-spoonfuls of grated horseradish. Take the Perch out carefully with a skimmer, scrape the scales off, dip the fish in the cooking liquor, then wipe them in a cloth ; put them on a hot dish, pour the prepared sauce over them, first mixing with it a little chopped parsley and a few capers, and serve. Care must be taken to remove the scales quite cleanly, or they will spoil the dish. Perch Soup.—Clean five or six Perch and boil them in white wine and fish-broth, mixed in equal quantities; when done, drain them and leave till cool. Cut the fillets from the Perch, divide them, put them in a small stew- pan, and keep them warm. Put 3oz. of butter in a sauce- pan with 3oz. of flour, and stir it over the fire till warm, but do not brown it; pour in 2qts of the Perch-stock, and stir it over the fire till it begins to boil; move the saucepan to the side of the fire, put some vegetables and a bunch of parsley in, and let it simmer for thirty-five minutes. Skim and strain the liquor, mix with it some parsley, celery roots, and carrots previously blanched and chopped, and boil it for ten minutes longer; stir in a liaison of yolks of eggs, to thicken it, put in the Perch fillets, pour all into a soup-tureen, and serve. Perch. Stewed in Wine.—(1) Clean and scale the Perch and put them in a saucepan, with some white wine and broth, mixed in equal quantities, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, a laurel-leaf, one onion, three cloves, and a small quantity of salt. Let the contents of the sauce- pan simmer for twenty minutes or till the fish are done. Put the fish on a deep hot dish; pass their cooking liquor