TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 989 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. 2Alb. of salt. Let it remain for three weeks or a month, hasting it with the brine every day. When taken from the brine dip it in cold water and hang it up. Mutton to Imitate Venison.—(1) The best Mutton to use for this purpose is the cold remains of a well-liung and rather underdone joint. Cut the meat into thin slices with a little fat attached to each if possible. Stick a few cloves in a moderate-sized onion, put it in a stewpan with two or three bay-leaves, half a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few allspice, and 1 pint of clear gravy, and let it boil gently for an hour. At the end of that time put into a stewpan 2oz. of butter and 1 heaped table-spoon- ful of flour. Stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until nicely browned, strain in a small quantity of the prepared gravy, mix it smoothly, then strain in the re- mainder, and continue stirring until boiling and thickened. Put the meat in the sauce with 2 wineglassfuls of port wine, \ wineglassful each of mushroom ketchup and Worcestershire sauce, £ table-spoonful of red-currant jelly, and salt to taste; keep the stewpan at the side of the fire, and let the meat heat gently but do not let the gravy boil again. Have ready boiled plenty of well-washed spinach, and when tender drain it thoroughly and chop it up, mix- ing a few lumps of butter with it; make a wall with the spinach round a hot dish, pile the meat in the centre, pour the sauce round, and serve. (2) Bone and trim a loin of Mutton the day before it is wanted; put a chopped onion in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry it until nicely browned, then put in a few finely-minced trimmings of lean ham, and two or three sprigs of parsley. Pour in J2 pint of clear stock, season to taste with salt and pepper and a few drops of Worcester- shire sauce, boil it for ten minutes, then strain it into a basin. Rub the meat over with coarse brown sugar and a few table-spoonfuls of port wine. On the following morning, cover the Mutton with a fiour-and-water paste, and roast it like venison. Skim the gravy and boil it up ; when the meat is cooked, remove the paste, put it on a hot dish, and serve without delay with red-currant jelly and the gravy in a sauceboat. (3) Bone a loin of Mutton, trim it, removing all the skin, and put it into a stewpan with an onion stuck with ten cloves, a few sprigs of thyme and parsley, 1 table-spoon- ful of vinegar, A pint of port wine, and 1 pint of water; season to taste with salt and pepper, and when boiling move the stewpan to the edge of the lire and let the con- tents simmer for nearly three hours, turning the meat over occasionally. If getting too dry, pour in now and again a little clear Mutton broth. When cooked, place the Mutton on to a hot dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve. (4) Take a large fat loin of Mutton and let it hang for several days. Then take oft' all the kidney-fat, bone the Mutton, take the skin off the upper fat, and rub the joint well with loz. of ground black pepper and 2oz. of sugar mixed together; lay it on a large deep dish, pour over 1 gill dr 1A gills of port wine, cover it with the skin, and let it remain for five days, rubbing and turning it every day, always covering it again with the skin. It may then be roasted covered with the skin, and paper over that. (5) The following is a capital receipt to make a haunch or leg of Mutton eat like venison: The joint should be hung as long as it can be with safety, and dressed exactly like a haunch of venison; to make the taste more perfectly resemble that of venison, it should, after having been hung to the turn, be skinned, and laid in a pan with vinegar and water (two parts of the former to one of the latter, but not enough to cover it), and seasoned with a faggot of herbs, a clove of garlic, 1 table-spoonful of whole pepper, and a couple of onions cut in slices; let it soak for three days, dry it well, hang it for a day, and roast as venison. It may also be put into a stewpan with A- pint of gravy, simmered for four hours, and served with sauce usually prepared with venison. Mutton Kabobs.—(1) Remove all the fat and skin from a loin of Mutton, and cut through each joint. Put half a grated nutmeg in a basin and mix it up with a little breadcrumbs, line herbs, and salt and pepper to taste. Dip Mutton—continued. the pieces of meat into yolks of eggs in a basin, and sprinkle them over with the mixture, taking care to cover them. Afterwards, put them together again in their original positions, tie them round with twine, and put them on a spit in front of a quick fire to roast, placing a dish under- neath to catch the fat. Baste frequently with a little butter and the liquor from the Mutton, sprinkle over a little more of the mixture, and when the Mutton is done put it on a dish and remove the string. Put 1 breakfast- cupful of gravy mixed with 2 table-spoonfuls of ketchup and thickened with 1 teaspoonful of flour together with the gravy that is in the basting-disli into a saucepan, boil it, skim well, pour it over the Mutton, and serve hot. (2) Select a small shoulder of Mutton and bone it, being very careful not to break the skin. Put in a mortar a little more than A table-spoonful of coriander-seeds, 1 tea- spoonful each of cayenne pepper and ginger, a clove of garlic, four or five cardamoms, and a few cloves; moisten with onion-juice, and pound the whole to a smooth paste. Rub the Mutton well over with this mixture, and roll it up tightly. Put 6oz. of lard or butter in a braising-pan, place it over the fire until melted, then put in the Mutton with some salt, and cook it over a gentle fire until nicely browned. When cooked, place the meat on a hot dish, thicken the liquor in the pan with a small quantity of flour, pour it over the meat, and serve while very hot. (3) Turkish.—Cut some lean Mutton into small squares, dust them over with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, nibbing it well in with the fingers, and leave them for an hour or two. Put the pieces of Mutton in a sauce- pan, cover them with milk, set it over the fire till boiling, then take the pieces of meat out and leave them till cold. Put some skewers through the pieces, put them in front of a clear moderate fire, and turn them occasionally so as to cook evenly. Keep the milk in which they were scalded hot by the fire and baste the meat with it while cooking, using a quill for the nurpose. When nearly done dredge Fig. 1230. Mutton Kabobs (Turkish). a small quantity of flour over the meat. When nicely cooked and browned, put them on a hot dish, dust a smail quantity of powdered cinnamon over them, and serve without delay. See Fig. 1230. (4) Cut some slices of lean raw Mutton into pieces about the size of a penny, put them on a dish, dust them over with salt and pepper, baste them with a few table-spoon- fuls of raw onion-juice, and leave them for two or three hours. Put the pieces of meat on to skewers, and roast in front of a clear fire, turning them frequently. As they begin to brown, dredge flour over them occasionally. When cooked, put the meat on a hot dish, dust powdered cinnamon and cumin over, and serve while very hot. (5) Cut some lean Mutton into small squares, season with salt, pepper, powdered cinnamon, and finely-minced onions, and leave them for an hour or so to become incor- porated with the flavours. Put the pieces of meat on skewers, wrap some thin caul-fat round them, and roast in front of a gentle fire, turning them frequently. When be- ginning to brown, baste the meat with the dripping in the pan. When cooked, arrange them on a hot dish, and serve immediately. Mutton Mulligatawny.—Cut off the lean part from 41b. of the scrag end of a neck of Mutton, which cut into small pieces ; put the remainder with the bones into a saucepan with a bunch of sweet herbs, parsley, a small piece of mace, and two onions. Pour in 3qts. of cold water, and boil it slowly for three or four hours. Afterwards strain the