966 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Musk—continued. drops, and using only the very small lumps; put it into a sugar-pan with a lip to it, and add gradually, stirring all the time, sufficient water to form a paste that will drop from the spoon without sticking to it. Set the pan on the stove and stir the contents with a spatula until the suga ' is dissolved and upon the point of boiling, remove it, add essence of Musk to flavour, and with the pan in the left hand and a piece of bent wire in the right, let the drops fall, cutting them off from the pan with the wire on to cartridge-paper or a smooth tin, and set them away to dry for two hours. Remove them carefully from the paper or tin and pack in boxes or bottles. Musk Flavouring- for Liqueurs.—Pound in a mortar two grains of Musk with Jib. of sugar; mix them thoroughly together, put this powder into a bottle, and keep it air- tight. A pinch of this is enough for 4cits, or 5qts. of liqueur. MUSK MELONS.-See Melons. MUSKELLUNGE.—The name of a large American pike (Esox nobilior) caught in the great lakes and esteemed as food. MUSSELS [Ft. Moules; Ger. Muscheln).—These are the oysters of the poor (said Grimod de la Reyniere), and they ought to be favoured also by the rich, for there is scarcely a shell-fish which surpasses them in flavour. By Continental cooks they are largely used, and so too would they be by British cooks if it were not for that disparaging Fig. 1209. Mussels. fact that they are cheap and common. The Mussel (Mytilus edulis) (see Pig. 1209) is found in vast numbers along the coasts of almost every sea, some, termed horse- Mussels, being especially large; both kinds are edible, and largely consumed, especially in Prance, where cases of poisoning from eating them are unknown. In this country some few cases of so-called poisoning have been attributed to eating Mussels, but most authorities are agreed that such cases are exceedingly rare in comparison with the number of Mussels consumed as food. It is just possible that something of their wholesomeness would he due to their freshness and the purity of the water from which they were taken. Mussels feeding in the neighbourhood of a sewer’s outlet would scarcely be expected to be whole- some. Prepared according to the following receipts, Mussels are exceedingly delicious: Boiled Stuffed Mussels.—Put the Mussels into water, brush them with a stiff brush or scrape them to clean them thoroughly, and wash them. Open the shells with a knife, but without separating them entirely. Put 1 Mussels—continued. breakfast-cupful of olive oil in a saucepan with three finely-chopped onions, and stir them about over the fire with a wooden spoon until nicely browned. Wash 1 break fast-cupful of rice, put it in with the onions, also 1 table-spoonful of washed currants, and 2 or 3 table- spoonfuls of blanched pistachio-kernels. Season the mixture with salt and pepper, and stir it over the fire until the rice begins to take colour, then pour in 1 teacupful of water, and continue stirring it over the fire until the moisture is reduced. Leave the mixture until cold, then stuff the Mussels with it, close the shells, and lay them in a stewpan; moisten to height with water, put a plate over to keep them down, and boil quickly. When the moisture has evaporated, take the Mussels out of the stew- pan, and place them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. They may be served cold if preferred. Fried Mussels.—(1) Pick some Mussels out of their shells, remove their beards, dip them in milk, cover with bread- crumbs well seasoned with salt and pepper, and fry in a frying-pan until they are of a light brown colour. Put them on a dish in a warm place, pour a little of their liquor in the pan, add a little pepper and salt (if required), sprinkle in a few breadcrumbs, and add a little butter. When it is quite hot, pour it over the Mussels, and serve at once. The Mussels may be previously pickled if desired, but it is not necessary. (2) Open and take the Mussels out of their shells, dip them in Hour, then in beaten eggs, and then in flour again, and fry till nicely browned in boiling olive oil or butter. Drain the Mussels, pile them in a group upon an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, dust them with salt and pepper, and serve. Bustled Mussels.—Wash well some Mussels in several waters, and put them in a basin with only just enough water to cover, and let them remain for twelve hours or so. Put them in a saucepan without any water, cover over, and place the pan on a brisk fire. As soon as they begin to get warm those at the bottom will throw out sufficient water to keep the pan from burning, and they will require to be hustled or tossed to the top so that all of them will have felt the heat. As soon as they open they are done; put them on a dish, pour their liquor over, and serve. Mussels en Brochette.—Thoroughly clean the required number of Mussels, removing the beards and all uneatable parts; fasten six at a time on small skewers and roast them in front of the fire, or dip them into fritter-batter | and fty in boiling fat. Mussels en Coquilles.—Procure some small Mussels, they being the most delicate, scrape the shells, and wash them in several waters to remove all the grit. Put the Mussels in a, stewpan with one sliced onion, a small bunch of parsley, and 1 pint of French white wine; season with pepper and salt. Stand the pan over the fire till the shells open, when the Mussels will he done. Take them out of their shells, clean thoroughly, and cut them into halves. Strain the cooking-liquor of the Mussels into another saucepan, mix with it an equal quantity of veloute sauce, and boil till reduced to about half its original quantity. Thicken the sauce with a lump of butter or a liaison of two yolks of eggs, stirring by the side of the fire and not allowing it to boil after the eggs are added: put the Mussels in the sauce with 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Fill some silver shells with the above mixture, cover with finely-grated breadcrumb, put a small bit of butter on the top of each, and brown under a sala- mander or in the oven. When cooked, arrange the coquilles on an ornamental dish-paper or a folded napkin that has been placed on a hot dish, garnish with neat sprigs of fried parsley, arranging it here and there between the shells, and serve. Mussels a la Matelote.—Wash and clean some Mussels, put them into a saucepan over a clear fire, and toss or hustle them until the shells open. Turn the Mussels into a colander placed over a pan, so as to save all their liquor,