78 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Satires, the., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—co n tinned. half cooked line a pie-dish with some of the paste and two-thirds fill it with the Oysters, adding a seasoning of pepper and celery salt, 2oz. of butter cut up into little pieces, and a good sprinkling of flour. Lay the remainder of the crust over the top, and bake in a quick oven. (2) Small.—Prepare some rich puff paste and line some buttered fluted patty-pans with it; bake them, and when cooked and cooled turn the paste patties out of the tins. Put some large Oysters in a stewpan with a few cloves, a small quantity of mace and grated nutmeg, a few pounded yolks of hard-boiled eggs, about 2oz. of butter, and as much of the Oyster liquor as will cover them. Stew the Oysters until well plumped, then move them from the fire and leave until cold. Fill the patties with the Oysters, dust them over witn salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, arrange them on a dish with an orna- mental folded paper (see Fig. 95), and serve. (3) Turn a couple of dozen Oysters into a basin with their liquor. Put 1 oz. of butter into a saucepan and work it together with 1 tablespoonful of flour to a smooth paste; when warm add a little mace, cayenne, and salt, and pour in gradually 3 table-spoonfuls of cream. Boil for a few minutes and pour in the strained liquor from the Oysters, add the Oysters last, and boil for a couple of minutes longer. Line some small patty-pans with thin puff paste, put a quantity of rice in each to keep them in shape, cover the top with more of the paste, and bake in a brisk oven. Take them out, remove the top, empty out the rice, fill them with the Oysters and a little of the liquor, cover them, and serve. (4) Beard the required quantity of Oysters, rinse them in their liquor, chop them small, add a little of their liquor (strained), put them in a pan with a very little pepper and salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a morsel of lemon- peel, and let them simmer for about two minutes. Line some small patty-pans with putt' paste, put a small quantity of the chopped Oysters into each, cover with putt' paste, and bake in a pretty quick oven. (5) Make some puff paste, roll it out, and with it line some small tin patty-pans. Put them into a quick oven and bake ; take them out, leave till cold, then turn them out, and arrange on a dish. Put some large fresh Oysters into a saucepan over the fire, allowing two or three to each patty, and add some hard-boiled yolks of eggs, chopped fine, a small piece of butter, a seasoning of nutmeg; cloves, and mace, and sufficient of their liquor to barely cover them. Let them stew for a short time without coming to the boil, take them from the fire, and leave till quite cold ; put two or three into each shell of puff paste and serve. (6) Add sufficient strained lemon-juice to l gill of cold water to mix fib. of flour to a smooth, stiff paste, knead it well, lay it on a floured paste-board, roll it out, and spread over fib. of fresh butter; fold it up, dredge with flour, and roll it out again. Repeat this till fib. of butter has been rolled in, then fold it in three, and put it into a cool place for two hours. Beard twenty-five Oysters, and throw them into boiling water. Put the beards and liquor over the fire with a very small piece of mace, a little each of grated nutmeg, white pepper, and cayenne, and the thinly-pared rind of half a lemon ; let them boil quickly for ten minutes, then strain the liquor, and add to it the Oysters cut into six pieces, 1 table-spoonful each of strained lemon-juice and cornflour blended in 4 table- spoonfuls of cream, and stir till thick. Lay the paste out on the paste-board, and with a circular paste-cutter Oysters—co n tinned. 2fin. in diameter cut it into rounds, then take a paste-cutter, also circular, but only lfin. in diameter, and press it in the middle of each round of paste, cutting it half-way through. Knead the remainder of the paste, roll it out, and cut it into rounds with the smaller paste-cutter; put all the rounds of paste on to a floured baking-tin, and bake in a quick oven. When cooked, remove the centre pieces of paste from the larger rounds with a sharp penknife, fill up the hollow with the prepared Oysters, cover with one of the small pieces of paste, and when all are ready lay them on a heated napkin on a hot dish and serve immediately. (7) Open three or four dozen Oysters, beard them, and put them in a stewpan with their liquor ; skin and bone half-a-dozen sardines, chop them finely, put them in with the Oysters, add a few finely-minced capers, the strained juice of a small lemon, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Knead 1 table-spoonful of butter in a small quantity of flour, add it to the above ingredients, and boil the whole gently for a few minutes. Prepare a sufficient quantity of short-paste, butter some small patty-pans, and line them with it. Fill them with the above mixture and cover with the paste, trimming oft' neatly round the edges ; make a slight incision at the top of each patty and bake them in a quick oven. When the patties are cooked, turn them out of their tins, arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with neat sprigs of fried parsley, and serve. (8) Take some small tin pans. Cut some thin sliees of stale bread without crust, having a piece to fit the bottom of each pan, toast them quickly and lightly, butter them while hot, and put a piece in each pan. Wet them well with the strained liquor of the Oysters after they are placed in the pans, then lay on top of the toast as many Oysters as the tins will hold without heaping them higher than the sides. Season with pepper and salt, put a piece of butter on top, and set the pans on a baking-sheet; turn a baking-tin down over them to keep in the steam and the flavour, and bake in a quick oven till the Oysters begin to shrivel up. About eight minutes ought to be enough. Serve very hot in the tins in which they were baked. Oyster Pie.—(1) Line a deep pie-dish with a thin layer of puff paste, put it in a moderate oven, and bake the crust; then take it out, fill the dish with well-washed Oysters, add a little butter, sprinkle the Oysters with flour, salt, and pepper, cover the dish with another layer of the paste, ornament it with pastry flowers or leaves, put it into a quick oven, and bake. As soon as the top crust is done the Oysters should lie cooked; then take it out, put it on a dish, and serve. If intended to lie eaten hot it must be served directly it is cooked, but it is quite as tasty when cold. (2) Line a pie-dish with puff paste, and fill it with slices of stale bread; butter the paste that covers the edge of the dish, lay a cover of puff paste over the pie, press the edges very lightly together, trim them, and bake quickly in a hot oven. Meantime drain the liquor from I qt. of Oysters and chop them line with a sharp thin-bladed knife. Blend 1 teaspoonful of cornflour in a very little cold milk, pom- over it pint of boiling milk or cream, put it over the fire in a"” saucepan, stir till it thickens, and then add loz. or rather more of butter; when the butter has been well mixed in, season the chopped Oysters with salt and pepper, stir them into the thickened milk, let them simmer (stirring all the time) for five minutes, and then take them from the fire. When the bread pie is baked take it from the oven, and while still hot carefully raise and take off the upper crust; remove the bread, fill the dish with the thickened cream or milk and chopped Oysters, replace the top crust, put the pie again in the oven till it is thoroughly hot, and then serve. (3) Butter a pie-dish; make some rich puff paste, roll it out, line the sides (not the bottom) of the dish with it, and cover the edges. Take sufficient fresh Oysters to fill the dish, pour the liquor from them, and season to taste with pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and powdered mace and cinnamon. Stir this seasoning well among them, put them