THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 973 ces, cice., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. Braised Boned Shoulder of Mutton.—Take out the hone from a shoulder of Mutton (see Boning), letting the stump remain for a handle. Lard it with strips of fat hacon, and sprinkle over chopped herbs, salt, and pepper. Roll it up, and sew together with a trassing-needle. Place a few slices of bacon at the bottom of a braising-pan, put in the shoulder of Mutton, and add the shoulder-bone, a few carrots and onions, a little thyme and laurel-leaves, two heads of celery, and a little stock. Cover with slices of bacon and then with paper, put the pan over a slow lire, and simmer gently until done. Take it out, remove the string, put the Mutton on a dish, and serve with a garnish of glazed onions. Braised Breast of Mutton.—(1) This should he partly boiled the day before wanted, in order to more readily free it of its superfluous fat; cut it into pieces, put them into a saucepan, dust over with salt and pepper, and lay over them three onions cut in slices. Place the pan over a slow fire and let the meat cook slowly for about three hours, when it should be done; its own juices and fat will be quite sufficient moisture. Put the meat on a dish, and serve ; the fat may be poured into a basin for further use. (2) Put a few slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a saucepan, and add a few tarragon-leaves, young onions, a little mixed spice, and salt and pepper to taste. Put a breast of Mutton, not too fat, on the top, place the pan over the lire, and when it begins to cook pour over 1 pint of stock; remove the pan to the side of the fire (or over a very slow one), and cook very gently until done. Put the breast of Mutton on a dish, pour over the strained liquor, and serve very hot. (3) Put a breast of Mutton into a braising-pan with a few carrots and onions cut in slices, sprinkle over salt and pepper, and add a little mixed spice. Place the pan over the lire with hot ashes on the lid, and cook the contents until thoroughly done. Take the Mutton out, remove all the bones, and put the meat in between two plates or pieces of hoard with a weight on the top; let it remain until cold and flat. Cut it up into various shapes, brush them over with yolk of egg, dip them into breadcrumbs, then into clarified butter, and then into breadcrumbs again. Put them on a baking-sheet in a quick oven to brown, place them on a dish, and serve with Italian or brown haricot sauce. Braised Haunch of Mutton.—The haunch should be cut to the height of the first ribs; bone the loin and the leg to the first joint, and season the meat inwardly with salt and pepper. Put some slices of vegetables and trim- mings of lard in an oblong stewpan, put in the meat, dust a little salt over it, and pour in I i pints of broth. Put the stewpan over the fire, and boil the liquor till reduced to a glaze; then pour in some more broth to the height of the Mutton, and let it boil up. Place the stewpan by the side of the fire, put some live embers on the lid, and cook the Mutton for five hours, or more if it is not very young. When the haunch is cooked, take it out of the stewpan, mix 1 tumblerful of white wine with the cooking- liquor, boil it up, skim well, then strain it through a fine hair sieve into a smaller stewpan; boil it quickly till reduced to half-glaze, then thicken with a small quantity of brown sauce. Remove the string from the Mutton, and cut it in slices across the top, leaving them in their places. Fix a paper raffle round the bone, place the Mutton on a hot dish, brush it over with a paste-brush dipped in melted glaze, and garnish with groups of glazed button-onions. Pour part of the sauce in the dish round the meat and serve with the remainder in a sauceboat. Braised Leg of Mutton.-(l) Put a leg of Mutton into a braismg-pan with some slices of fat bacon on the top and underneath it, and add a bay-leaf, a bunch of sweet herbs, four carrots, two onions, a few meat-bones, and 3 gills of gravy. Put the pan over a wood fire with hot ashes on the cover, and cook the contents slowly until done. Take out the leg, put it on a dish, and glaze; remove the fat from the gravy, strain it, pour it over, and serve. (2) Put a very tender leg of Mutton into a braising-pan, and when it is nearly done take it out and cut it into very thick slices without taking them off the bone. In For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, . Mutton—continued. the meantime prepare a stuffing of chopped parsley, shallots, chives, powdered ginger, breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, and a large quantity of butter; spread this between the slices, and put the leg in a saucepan. Pour in 1 wineglassful of champagne, and some of the stock in which it was cooked. Put the pan at the side of the fire, cover the lid with hot ashes, and simmer gently for thirty minutes or so. When done, put it on a dish, skim off the fat from the liquor, add a little orange-juicc, pour it over, and serve hot. (3) Prepare a stuffing of bread and pork, chopped fine, seasoned highly with pepper, salt, sweet marjoram, and pounded cloves. Bone a leg of Mutton and stuff it with the forcemeat. Place some skewers at the bottom of a saucepan, lay the Mutton on them to keep it from burn- ing, put in two sliced onions, turnips, and carrots, and a little chopped celery, and sprinkle a large quantity of salt on the whole, with a little powdered cloves, mace, and pepper. Put enough water in the pan to cook the contents slowly for four or five hours, without burning. When done take out the meat, and put it in a covered dish by the fire. Skim off all the fat from the liquor, add 1 tumblerful of port wine thickened with flour, also a little currant jelly ; bring it to the boil, pour over the meat, and serve. Braised Leg of Mutton in Polish Style.—Cut oft' the thin end bone of a leg of Mutton that has been hung until quite tender, and put it into an earthenware pan that is just deep and large enough to hold it. In the meantime fry three chopped onions, the same of celery roots and carrots in a frying-pan with some fat, and pour in 3 wine- glassfuls each of water and vinegar and boil gently ; then add a little parsley, thyme, basil, bay-leaf, sweet herb-, two cloves of garlic, and a few peppercorns and cloves, and continue to boil for twenty minutes longer. lake the pan off the fire, and when the mixture is nearly cold pour it over the leg of Mutton and let it remain for twenty-four hours or so, turning frequently. Take out the leg, drain well, wipe it dry, and put it into a moderate oven for thirty minutes on a roasting-pan with a large piece of butter. Pour over 1 pint of sour cream and half the quan- tity of the stock (marinade stock). Put the pan back again to complete the cooking, basting the leg frequently. When done put it on a dish; strain the liquor with which it was basted and reduce it over a quick fire until thick. Pour it over the leg of Mutton, put a ruffle of paper on the end of the hone, and serve. Braised Legs of Welsh Mutton a la Jardiniere.—Cut off four small legs of Welsh Mutton, remove the hone, and lard them on the inside with large strips of fat bacon and lean ham. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and tie them round into shape. Put them in a braising-pan with 1 tea- cupful of brandy, pour over sufficient mirepoix to cover, place the pan in the oven, and let the contents simmer gently until the meat is done. In the meantime, have ready a large socle of rice on a dish, put the legs on it, glaze them, and garnish around the base with cauliflowers, asparagus, peas, carrots, &c. Strain the gravy, remove all Fig. 1217. Braised Legs of Welsh Mutton 1 la Jardiniere. the fat, reduce it quickly with some Spanish sauce, and serve it separately in a sauceboat. The base of the socle should also be garnished with the vegetables so as to hide it completely from view. See Fig. 1217. Braised Mutton under a Basin.—Cut some Mutton into small pieces about the size of an egg, rinse them in plenty of cold water, and dry on a towel; rub each piece over well until finely-chopped onions, pepper, salt, and mixed