THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 20 For details respecting Culinary Processes, UtensilsfSauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Olives—continued. Olives Stuffed with. Anchovies.—Stone a dozen Spanish Olives, wash and hone five anchovies, chop them finely, put them in a mortar with a moderate quantity each of chopped onion and parsley, pound them smoothly, and season with a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Fill the hollows of the Oli es left by the stones with the pounded mixture. With a tin cutter cut rounds about 2in. in diameter out of slices of bread, and scoop a hollow in the centre of each round ; put a large piece of lard into a flat stewpan, place the pan on the fire, and when the lard boils put in the rounds of bread and fry them until nicely browned. After- Fig. 24. Olives Stuffed with Anchovies. wards drain them, leave them until cool, then put an Olive in the centre of each. Arrange them on a dish, pour over a small quantity of mayonnaise sauce, and serve. See Fig. 24. Olives Stuffed with Chestnuts.—Procure twelve Spanish Olives and six Spanish chestnuts. Put 2oz. of butter into an enamelled saucepan with 2oz. of ham cut into small pieces, a moderate-sized carrot and onion peeled and cut into thin slices, and fry them until they are brown; then add a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, four or five peppercorns, dredge in 1 table-spoonful of flour, and moisten with some of the liquor from the Olives. Stir the whole until mixed, then place the pan over the fire for an hour and stir occasion- ally. Boil the chestnuts, and when tender peel them, put them in a mortar with loz. of butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and pound until smooth. Peel the Olives, remove the stones, fill the hollows with the chestnuts, and lay them in a lined, rather shallow, stewpan; strain the above sauce carefully over them, and simmer at the edge of the fire until hot through. Cut a thick slice of bread, fry it in butter until nicely browned, then drain, and scoop out the centre, making a hollow large enough to hold the Olives. When ready, put the Olives on the bread, jilace it on a hot dish, garnish tastefully round with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, pour the sauce round the bread, and serve while very hot. OLIVE OIL.—When Olives are ripe they are gathered and gently pressed, by which means the best quality of oil is obtained. A stronger pressure is then applied, which breaks the kernels, producing a second quality oil. After settling, the bright oil is at once put into flasks guarded by a covering of rushes, and the inferior quality is exported in casks and jars. Italian Olive Oil, known in the trade as Florence. Lucca, or Gallipoli, is the best; but there can be no doubt that all retailed to us as Italian does not come from Italy. See Salad-oil. OLLA-FODKIDA.—The literal meaning of this Spanish compound word is olla—a pot, and podrida— rotten. It is applied to a kind of stew consisting of many things which it is supposed can only be obtained in Spain. Ford, in his “ Handbook of Spain,” says of it: “ The Olla is only well made in Andalusia, and there alone in careful, well-appointed houses; it is called a puchero in the rest of Spain, where it is but a poor affair.” He then gives the following directions for making it, to which two other receipts by famous cooks have been added: (1) It may be made in one pot. but two are better. They must be of earthenware, like the French pot-au-feu. Put them on separate stoves with water in them. Place in No. 1 garbangos (chick-peas) which have been soaked over- night. Add a gord piece of beef, a chicken, a large piece of bacon, and let it boil once and quickly; then let it simmer : it requires four or five hours to be well done. Meanwhile Olla-podrida—continued. place into No. 2, with water, whatever vegetables are to be had—lettuces, cabbage, a slice of gourd, carrots, beans, celery, endive, onions, and garlic, with beef and long peppers. These must be previously well washed and cut, as if they were destined to make a salad. Then add red sausages (chorizos), and half a pig’s face salted, which should have been soaked overnight. When all is sufficiently boiled strain off the water. Remember constantly to skim the scum off both saucepans. When all are ready, take a large dish, lay in the bottom the vegetables, the beef in the centre, flanked by the bacon, chicken, and pig’s face. The sausages should be arranged around en couronne. Pour over some of the soup of No. 1, and serve hot. (2) Put some lentils or haricot beans to soak overnight, and in the morning drain and put them in a large earthen- ware jar with 4lb. of beef, half that quantity of bacon, and an old fowl; pour in sufficient water to cover these ingre- dients, and simmer gently at the side of the fire for four hours. Prepare and wash a sufficient quantity of cabbages, lettuces, carrots, turnips, onions, and celery, put them in another large jar with half a salted and well-soaked pig’s head, and a few chillies; cover the vegetables with water and stew them the same time as the meats. When cooked, drain the vegetables, and place them round a very large hot dish ; put the pig’s head in the centre with the bacon, fowl, and meat, strain the meat liquor over them, and serve. (3) Put 1 pint of chick-peas in a basin of warm water and soak them for several hours ; blanch Alb. of raw ham and 41b. of smoked streaky bacon. When soft, drain the chick-peas and put them in an earthenware stockpot with the ham and bacon, 61b. of brisket of beef, and the knuckle end of a leg of mutton. Cover these ingredients well with cold water, place the stockpot over the lire until the liquid boils, then move it to the side ; skim well, and keep sim- mering gently. In two hours’ time add a small chicken, a partridge, three carrots, two onions, a snee of gourd, a bunch of parsley tied together with two bay-leaves, and cook for an hour longer; then put in small smoked sausages, and simmer for three hours longer, carefully taking out each piece of meat as it is cooked. At the end of that time, strain the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a stewpan, skim it well, put in 1 breakfast-cupful of rice, and boil until tender. Cut the beef into slices, place it on an oval-shaped dish, put the fowl at one end, the partridge at the other, aud the bacon and ham on each side; cut the sausages into slices, place them round the dish, and garnish with braised lettuces (see Fig. 25). Pour the sou]) into a tureen and serve with the meat. Tomato sauce can be eaten with the meats if liked. OMEIBiE.—A beverage prepared in some parts of Africa by fermenting milk. It is a thick, sub-acid, viscous fluid. OMELETS (Fr. Omelettes; Ger. Eierkuclien; Ital. Frittate; Sp. Tortillas).—Although every country has its representative for Omelets, it is doubtful if the dish is not better known throughout the Continent under its French name than it is in England. The derivation of the word, however, is wrapped in mystery, some etymologists inclining towards oeufs meles; but this is declared by others to be impracticable, the de- rivation given by them being if anything still more impracticable. Professor Skeat says the word Omelet is “ derived from the old French amelette, but this again was preceded by the forms alemette and alemelle. The sense