THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 30 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c:, referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. Stewed Spanish Onions.—(1) Peel two or three Spanish Onions, partially boil them in salted water for ten minutes, drain, and wipe them on a cloth. Put one or two slices of bacon into a stewpan with a hunch of sweet herbs, and a few cloves and peppercorns; cut the Onions into halves, put them in, cover with clear stock, and boil them gently for two hours, or until quite tender. When cooked, strain the liquor through a line sieve, pour it into a smaller saucepan, skim off all the fat, and boil it until thickly reduced, meanwhile keeping the Onions hot at the side of the fire. When ready, place the Onions on a hot dish, pour the reduced sauce over them, and serve. (2) Put 1 pint of veal or mutton stock into a stewpan together with a seasoning of salt and pepper and about |oz. of butter rolled in flour. Peel and put into this eight or nine Spanish Onions, stew them for an-hour-and-a-half, or according to their size, and just before taking them from the stewpan stir in 3 table-spoonfuls of cream. If the Onions are to be stewed in brown sauce, brown a small quantity of flour and butter in the stewpan, and add 1 pint of good gravy and a little pepper and salt; put in the Onions, and let them stew about an-hour-and-a-half according to size. (3) Peel half-a-dozen large Spanish Onions, roast them in a Dutch oven before the fire, turning them frequently till they are nicely browned; then put them into a saucepan with a bone, a rasher of bacon, a little pepper and salt, and J pint of water. Put the lid on closely, let the Onions stew till quite tender, take out the bacon and the bone, and thicken the liquor with about £oz. of butter rolled in flour. Stewed Spanish Onions with Hard-boiled Eggs.—Peel and boil six Spanish Onions in salted water until about half cooked; drain them, put them into a stewpan together with a small lump of butter, and fry them. When nicely browned, dredge over with Horn-, pour in 2 breakfast- cupfuls of nicely-flavoured stock, and boil gently for fifteen minutes. Boil six eggs hard, peel and slice them, put them in with the Onions, and simmer for a minute or two longer. Turn them on to a hot dish, garnish with sippets of toast or small crohtons of bread nicely fried in butter, and serve. Stewed Stuffed Onions.—(1) Peel and blanch some large Onions, drain them perfectly dry, scoop out the insides, and fill them with chicken forcemeat; put them at the bottom of a deep saucepan, cover them over with slices of fat bacon, and sprinkle with salt and sugar. Set the pan over a clear fire, and when the Onions are quite cooked and tender, take them out and arrange them on a dish. Reduce the liquor quickly over a sharp fire, pour it over the Onions, and serve. (2) German Style.—Peel about half a-dozen large white Onions, put them in a saucepan with a lump of salt and plenty of water, and boil until tender. Finely chop an equal quantity of lean and fat cooked pork, seasoning it to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of sage. Drain the Onions, scoop out the centre, and fill the hollows with the minced meat, j>iling it high in the middle. Dissolve 4oz. of butter in a lined saucepan, then put in the Onions, and fry them until nicely browned. Mix b table-spoonful of flour smoothly in \ pint of rich gravy, then pour it over the Onions, and Onions—continued. stew < them gently for fifteen minutes. When cooked, arrange on a hot dish, pour the cooking-liquor over, and serve very hot. Stewed Stuffed Onions with Tomato Sauce.—Peel the Onions, put them into a saucepan of water with a lump of salt, and boil them for ten minutes. Drain them, and scoop out a hollow place in the centre of each. Grate a sufficient quantity of stale crumb of bread to fill the Onions, and mix with it a small quantity of minced ham, some thick tomato sauce, and the beaten yolks of two raw eggs. Season the mixture to taste with salt and pepper and a moderate quantity of powdered spices, and stuff the Onions with it. Put them into a stewpan in which has been laid one or two slices of bacon, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and moisten them with tomato sauce ; put the lid on the stewpan, and stew until tender. When cooked, take them carefully out of the stewpan, and lay them on a hot dish; skim the fat off the sauce, remove the herbs and bacon, and pour over the Onions. Serve while hot. Stewed Stuffed Spanish Onions.—(1) Peel anti partially boil in salted water for ten minutes some large Spanish Onions, then drain them and scoop out some of the inside, but without going right through the bottom. Moisten some breadcrumbs with pure tomato sauce, and mix with them half their quantity of finely-minced ham; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of spices, put the mixture into a stewpan, stir it over the fire until hot, then move it to the side, and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs. Put one or two slices of bacon into a stewpan together with the Onions and a bunch of sweet herbs, moisten them to height with tomato sauce, and stew gently until tender. When cooked, place the Onions on a hot dish, skim the sauce, pour it over them, and serve. (2) Peel some large Spanish Onions and partially boil them in salted water for ten minutes. Drain them and remove the cores with a vegetable-scoop, but without cutting right through the bottom. Wash about half-a-dozen anchovies, cut them into small pieces, and mix them with plenty of finely-grated breadcrumb, a moderate quantity of chopped capers, and salt and pepper to taste. Stuff the Onions with the mixture. Mix loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour in a stewpan over the fire, and stir in gradually a sufficient quantity of equal parts of broth and claret to cover; put in the Onions with a bunch of sweet herbs and four or five cloves, and stew slowly until tender. When cooked, place them on a hot dish, strain their gravy over them, and serve. (3) Select large Spanish Onions, as near one size as possible, peel, and partially boil t hem in salted water for ten minutes; drain them, and with a vegetable-scoop, a little more than J-in. in diameter, cut out the cores, but without cutting right through the bottom. Make a sufficient quantity of stuffing for the Onions with breadcrumbs, tomato sauce, and a small quantity of finely-minced ham ; season to taste with salt, pepper, and powdered spices, and bind the whole with beaten egg. Fill the cavity in the Onions with the mixture, pressing it down tightly'; put them in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs and one or two slices of bacon, moisten to about two-thirds their height with tomato sauce, and simmer gently until quite tender. When cooked, place the Onions on a hot dish, skim the sauce, remove the bunch of herbs, and pour over the Onions. Serve very hot. OOPACK.—A kind of black tea, grown in a district of China from which it takes its name. OPAH.—The name of a large sea-fisli (Lampris gut- tatus), found principally in the Atlantic Ocean. It is remarkable for its brilliant colours, which are red, green, and blue, with tints of purple and gold, covered with round silvery spots; commonly known as the “ king of the herrings.” Its flesh is coarse, and therefore is not much used for culinary purposes. ORANGES (Fr. Orange; Ger. Orangen; Ital. Ar- ancie; Sp. Aar an j as).—The extensive family (Aurantiacese) to which this wonderful fruit (Citrus Aurantium) gives its name, includes the lemon, the lime, the citron, the