76 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Oysters—continued. out small quantities about the size of an egg, roll them on a board sprinkled with breadcrumbs, make them round with spoons, and dip them first into well-beaten egg and then into breadcrumbs. Have ready a frying-pan of boiling fat, plunge them in a few at a time, and when they are done and of a good colour take them out, drain, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. (2) Chop 1 breakfast-cupful of Oysters very line and mix them up with the same quantity of cooked minced veal. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered crackers in a basin with the Oyster liquor, soak them well, and add the Oyster and veal mixture, 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter, the yolks of two eggs, and 1 table-spoonful of onion-juice. Mix thoroughly, take a little out at a time, roll it into balls about the size of a greengage, dip them first in egg and then in cracker-crumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light brown. Place them on a dish with a napkin folded on it, and serve. The Oysters do not require to be cooked before being minced, but the veal must, as it takes longer to cook. (3) Boil about two dozen Oysters in their own liquor for five minutes, drain, cut them into moderate-sized pieces, and dust over with salt and pepper. Put 4oz. of butter in a saucepan with 2oz. of flour, stir them over the fire until mixed, then pour in l breakfast-cupful of cream and continue stirring until boiling. Take the saucepan off the fire, and put in the Oysters with \ table-spoonful of chopped parsley and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Stir the mixture well, turn it on to a dish, and leave it until cool. Divide the mixture into small quantities, roll them into balls with the hands, then roll them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Put a lump of lard or clarified fat in a frying-pan, make it hot, then put in the balls, a few at a time, and fry them until nicely browned. As each lot of balls are done, lay them on paper to drain. When well drained, arrange the balls on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. Oyster Forcemeat.—(1) Put Jib. of butter in a saucepan and when it has melted pour it over 1 breakfast-cupful each of breadcrumb and crackers rolled very small. Put them into a basin, and add the strained liquor of the Oysters, one egg, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix it up lightly so as not to make it into a paste, and then add two dozen Oysters. Stir up again, and the stuffing is ready for use. (2) Take ilb. of crumb from a stale household loaf and add it to a dozen Oysters finely minced. Put them into a basin with 2oz. of finely-slired suet and the same quantity of lean ham, or bacon and butter. Season with grated nutmeg, 2 table-spoonfuls of sweet herbs, a little parsley, both finely minced, and a little salt. Add sufficient well- beaten egg (it will require about three) to make it of the necessary consistence. This is a good stuffing for fresh- water fish. (3) Strain the liquor from lqt. of Oysters, and pour it over sufficient stale bread to fill the body of a turkey ; carefully remove all bits of shell from the Oysters, and then add them to the bread with 1 teaspoonful of salt, J saltspoonful of pepper, and a stalk of celery minced very fine, or 1 teaspoonful of celery-leaves dried and powdered. A good stuffing for turkey. Oyster Fricassee.—(1) Open and beard some Oysters, put them into a stewpan with their own liquor, loz. of butter, and the strained juice of half a lemon; season them with a small quantity each of cayenne pepper and grated nutmeg, and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire for a few minutes. Do not cook them too much or they will shrivel up. Beat the yolks of two eggs together with 3 table- spoonfuls of sherry, strain them, and stir ill with the Oysters. Toss the whole over the fire for a minute, then turn them on to a dish, and serve. (2) Beard a dozen Oysters and strain their liquor ; put a small lump of butter into a stewpan with 1 dessert- spoonful of Hour, mix them on the fire, then add the strained liquor of the Oysters, and stir it over the fire until thickened. Beat the yolk of an egg with about For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Oysters—continued. £ teacupful of cream, strain and stir it in the sauce, season to taste, and stir it at the edge of the fire for a few minutes but do not let it boil again. Put the Oysters in and let them warm gradually. Cut some slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and toast them ; butter while hot, lay them on a dish, pour the fricasseed Oysters over, and serve. (3) Put 2 table-spoonfuls of butter into a frying-pan, and when it is brown add 1 teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley, a small quantity of cayenne and salt, and lastly ‘2qts. of well-washed and drained Oysters. Work 1 table- spoonful of flour into 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, and when the butter is melted stir in the Oysters with the mixture and cook until they begin to curl; stir in the yolks of three eggs, well beaten, remove the pan from the fire, turn the fricassee out on to a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried bread and parsley. (4) Take a rasher of ham, pour boiling water over it, and let it soak for half-an-hour, then cut it up small and put it over the fire in a saucepan with the strained liquor of 3 [lints <rf Oysters, 1 pint of good strong veal broth or chicken broth, an onion chopped fine, a small quantity of chopped parsley and sweet marjoram, and pepper to taste. Let this simmer gently for a-quarter-of-an-hour, and then allow it to boil fast for five minutes, skim and put in the Oysters, stir constantly, and let it boil up once; then mix in 1 table-spoonful of cornflour blended smoothly with 1 [lint of milk, keep stirring till it boils and begins to thicken, then add 2oz. of butter. When the butter is melted lift out the Oysters with a skimmer, lay them on a hot dish, and keep them covered. When the sauce again comes to the boil take it from the fire; have a beaten egg ready in a cup, beat into it a spoonful or two of the hot sauce, then empty the cup into the saucepan, mixing the egg well in. Pour the sauce or gravy over the Oysters, and serve at once, adding the strained juice of a lemon after the tureen is placed on the table. Oyster Fritters.—Separate the yolk and white of an egg, beat the yolk well, and mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls each of ground rice and salad-oil, £ table-spoonful of vinegar, and a small quantity of cold water; mix smoothly and let the batter stand for an hour. Open the Oysters and beard them; whisk the whites of the eggs to a stiff snow, and mix them in lightly with the batter. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat into a Hat stewpan, and place it on the fire until boiling. Take the Oysters one at a time, put each in a table-spoon, fill the spoon with flatter, and pour it into the boil- ing fat. Fry until nicely and equally browned, then drain them well. Spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper over a hot dish, pile the fritters in the centre, garnish with cut lemons (see Fig. 93), and serve with a [date of thin slices of brown bread-and-butter. Oysters on Ice (a l’Arctique).—Procure a large square- shaped block of ice with a level top surface, and with a hot iron melt a cavity in it large enough to hold two or three dozen Oysters. Sprinkle the Oysters over with salt and pepper, place the block of ice on a napkin on a dish to prevent it slipping, put the Oysters in the cavity, garnish with parsley, both on the top of and round the block of ice, and it is ready for table. If desired the sides of the ice may be chipped with an ice-axe to uces, <bc., referred, to, see under their special heads.