TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 156 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, uces, cfcc., referred tot see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. the six crofitons of bread in the dripping-pan underneath, and basting continually with a paste-brush dipped in wanned butter. W hen cooked, put the Pheasant on a hot dish, garnish round with the crofitons of bread, and serve with a sauceboatful of rich gravy. Pheasant & l'Etouffade.—Singe, draw, and pluck a fine cock Pheasant, lard it, and wrap some thin slices of fat bacon round it. Line a stewpan with slices of bacon, put in the Pheasant, moisten it to height with equal quantities of white wine and rich gravy, and cover the stewpan closely. Stew the bird slowly for two hours, then drain it, put it on a hot dish, pour round it a sufficient quantity of essence of game that has been made hot, and serve. Pheasants a l’Extravagante.—No other cook than Soyer could ever have conceived such a dish as the following : Pre- pare and bone the breasts of two large Pheasants. Make the following forcemeat: fillet six woodcocks, and cut each fillet into halves lengthwise, put them in a saute-pan with lib. of chopped mushrooms, 1 table-spoonful of chopped shallots, and 2oz. of scraped bacon ; season them with salt and pepper, and set them over the fire for ten minutes, turning the fillets at the end of five minutes; then mix in 1 i breakfast-cupfuls of bechamel sauce, fib. of cooked cocks’ combs, and a small quantity of sugar and grated nutmeg. Mix the beaten yolks of three eggs with the other ingredients, and stir them over the fire till the egg sets; then turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it till cool. When quite firm, divide the stuffing into equal portions, and stuff the Pheasants with it. Sew the skin of the neck over on the back, but take care not to stretch it too tightly across the breast, or it may break; put some slices of fat bacon over the birds, wrap them in sheets of greased paper, and roast them in front of a clear fire. Put the trimmings, &c., of the woodcocks into a saucepan with 1 pint of white stock, 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, two sliced shallots, one bay-leaf, two or three sprigs of parsley and thyme, half a blade of mace, and three cloves. Let the sauce simmer for fifteen minutes, then pour in lqt. of brown sauce, and boil the whole for twenty minutes. At the end of that time, take out the pieces of woodcock, cut the flesh and trails from the bones, and pound them in a mortar, then return them to the sauce, having first passed it through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan. Season the sauce with salt, pepper, and b tea- spoonful of sugar, then rub it again through a fine hair sieve. Just before taking the birds up, remove the paper and bacon, to brown them lightly; then put them on a hot dish on which has been placed a border of poached forcemeat, pour the sauce in the centre over the birds, and serve. A very tasty garnish for this dish is made by cutting about twenty-four pieces of bread in the shape of hearts, then masking them on one side with forcemeat, making it rather thicker in the middle, and place a ready dressed cocks’ comb on each. Butter a deep baking dish, lay the pieces of bread in it, cover them over with a sheet of buttered paper, and bake them for half-an-hour in a moderate oven. Pheasant a la Minute.—Cut off the best pieces of meat from a fine large Pheasant, and trim them nicely; put a good-sized lump of butter into a flat stewpan, and place it over the fire until melted; then put in - the pieces of Pheasant with a few chopped herbs and toss them about over the fire for a few minutes. When the meat begins to stiffen, moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of white wine and good gravy, season to taste with salt and pepper, and boil gently at the side of the fire for five minutes. Arrange the meat on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and serve with a sauceboatful of shallot sauce. Pheasant a la Perigueux.—Pluck, singe, and draw a Pheasant, and make the following forcemeat: Peel tlb. of fresh truffles, chop them, and pound them in a mortar witbr3oz. of bacon-fat. Put the pounded mixture into a Small saucepan, and stir it over the fire until hot through ; then turn it into a basin and let it get cold, and season it to taste. Stuff the bird with this, wrap it in thin slices of bacon, and leave it for two days, to absorb the flavour of the truffles. Wrap it in a sheet of buttered Pheasants—continued. paper, fix it on a spit, and roast it before a clear fire, keeping it well basted. When the Pheasant is cooked, remove the paper, place it on a hot dish, pour round it a rich brown gravy made from the gizzards, neck, &c., and serve, garnished with truffles and potato croquette with a little mushroom ketchup and essence of ham in it. See Fig. 206. Pheasant a la Soubise.—Trass a Pheasant as for Boiled Chicken, put it in a braising pan with a layer of bacon, some chopped vegetables, some sweet herbs, and b pint of stock, and braise it. When cooked, take the Pheasant out of the braising-pan, drain it, and dry it in front of the fire. Put the Pheasant on a hot dish, surround it with soubise sauce, and serve. Pheasant Croquettes.—(1) Cut some of the meat of a cold roasted Pheasant into small pieces, removing all the skin, fat, tendons, and gristle; mix with it an equal quantity of truffles, chopped up in the same way. Boil b pint °f Spanish sauce with 1 wineglassful of essence of truffles till stiffly reduced, then mix it with the meat and truffles, and leave it to cool. Divide the preparation of Pheasant meat and truffles into equal-sized portions, and roll them into balls or “cocks.” Beat two beaten eggs with 1 table- spoonful of oil, pepper and salt to taste; roll the croquettes in it, then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in boiling fat till crisp and lightly browned. When cooked, drain the croquettes, sprinkle salt over them, and put them on an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish; garnish with fried parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of either poivrade, Perigueux or tomato sauces. (2) Trim off all the skin, bones, and sinewy parts from a cold roasted Pheasant, cut the flesh into small squares, put it into a saucepan with a small quantity of thick white sauce, and stir it over the fire until hot. Turn the mixture on to a dish, and leave it until cold; then with two table-spoons mould it into egg-shaped croquettes. Roll the croquettes into breadcrumbs that have been seasoned with salt and pepper, then in beaten raw egg, and again in the breadcrumbs. Put clarified fat or butter into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when the blue smoke arises, put in the croquettes, a few at a time, and fry them a rich golden brown. As each lot are cooked, rest them on a sheet of kitchen paper for a minute to drain off the fat. Spread a folded napkin or an orna- mental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the croquettes on it, garnish them nicely with fried parsley, and serve. (3) Cut the meat of a cooked Pheasant into small squares, and put these in a saucepan with one-third of their quantity of cooked truffles, also cut in squares, and keep them covered. Make a gravy with the bones. Boil some brown sauce till reduced, then stir in gradually with it the gravy, pour it into the stewpan with the chopped meat, and leave it till cool, h orm the preparation into pear-shaped croquettes, roll them in beaten eggs and breadcrumbs, put them in boiling fat, and fry them till nicely browned. Drain the croquettes, put them on a hot dish, garnish until fried parsley, and serve. Pheasant Forcemeat.—Chop fib. of Pheasant and J2lb. of chicken meat together, put it in a mortar, pound it, and then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Pound and pass through the sieve lOoz. of boiled udder of veal, mix it with the pounded meat, and work it up with fib. of bread panada; sprinkle over it a little grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and mix the whole thoroughly with 1 tea- <