23 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jkc., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions —continued. Omelets—continued. whites, cover with oiled paper, set the basin in a saucepan with boiling water to half its height, put on the lid, and let it steam for two or three minutes and no longer. Flavour with 4 or 5 drops of essence of lemon, turn out on to a dish, and serve quickly. Wine liquor or syrup should accompany it. Sweet Omelet.—(1) Put the whites and yolks of six eggs into separate basins. Beat the yolks with 1 teacupful of cream and 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar; then heat the whites to a stiff froth, mix them with the yolks, and fry the Omelet in boiling butter. When done, spread a layer of any kind of jam over the top, fold one half of the Omelet over the other, sprinkle with caster sugar, and serve on a folded napkin on a dish. (2) Beat up eight eggs, and add a little finely-chopped lemon-peel and a little caster sugar. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in a flying- or Omelet-pan, pour the beaten egg inf and fry both sides a light brown. Have ready a hot dish well sprinkled with caster sugar, score the Omelet in lines like a herring-bone by holding a red hot poker close to it, dish, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve. (3) Beat six eggs thoroughly with 2oz. of caster sugar, and when well frothed mix with them 2oz. of butter broken into small pieces. Put about 2oz. of butter into an Omelet- pan, place it on the fire, and when it boils pour in the mixture and stir until it sets. Next, turn the edges of the Omelet over till it forms an oval shape, and brown the top under a salamander. Put it on a hot dish, sift caster sugar over, and serve. of Onions known to horticulturists are exceedingly numerous. Spring Onions, or those which have merely begun to grow, are much favoured in salads. Sydney Smith wrote of these : Let Onion’s atoms lurk within the bowl. And, scarce suspected, animate the whole. ONIONS (Fr. Oignons; Ger. Zwiebeln; Ital. Cipolle : Sp. Cebollas).—Of all the seasonings or flavour- ings with which the cook is acquainted, there is not one, with the exception of salt, which holds so prominent a position; the object of the artistic cook being, whilst Fia. 31. James’s Keeping. Fig. 32. Naples Giant Rocca. When grown to bulbs, Onions form an indispensable component of such savouries as stews, soups, and sauces, which led Dean Swift to write : Fig. 29. Deep Blood-red Onions. accepting the flavour, to so conceal or disguise it that its extreme pungency is imperceptible. The Onion (Allium Cepa) belongs to the tribe of lilies, but is readily dis- tinguished from the sweet-scented flowers by the odour of the bulbs, which is so peculiar as to be almost Fig. 30. Early White Naples Onions. offensive until dealt with by culinary artists. To this tribe belong Chives, Garlic, Leeks, Rocambole of Denmark, and Shallots, all of which are treated under their special headings. In spite of this the varieties This is every cook’s opinion— No savoury dish without an Onion; But lest your kissing should be spoiled, Your Onions should be thoroughly boiled. Onions of a very small kind are much used for pickling; these are commonly known as Silver-skinned. Of other kinds not much used, we have the Underground or Potato Onion, supposed to be a variety of the Fig. 33. Queen Onions. common Onion, which has the singular property of multiplying itself by the formation of young bulbs on the parent root, producing a crop below the surface of the ground. As with all other Onions, their origin is uncertain, probably coming from the Bast, where they are very great favourites. In Canada there is an Onion known as the Bulb- bearing Tree Onion; it is very likely a variety of the common Tree Onion, which it resembles in appearance. “ It differs,” Lindley informs us, “ in its flower stem