THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 90 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. Parmesan Cheese—continued. squares, lay them on a buttered sheet of paper spread over a baking-sheet, and bake them in a brisk oven. When cooked, take the biscuits out of the oven and let them get cold. Season f breakfast-cupful of thick cream with salt, pepper, and cayenne pepper, and whip it to a stiff froth. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese with the cream, and ice it. When ready, pile the cream high on each of the squares (see Fig. 104), arrange them carefully on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper spread over a dish, and serve. Parmesan Cheese Quenelle Soup.—Put 2oz. of butter into a saucepan on the fire, melt it, and add sufficient flour to form a roux. Cook this for a few minutes, add more flour to form a soft paste, and let it dry for a few minutes longer over the lire; then add the yolks of six eggs, 2oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, a small quantity of chicken glaze, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste, and lastly a slight colouring of essence of spinach. Poach a small portion of this quenelle mixture to determine its firmness; should it be too stiff add a little broth, but if too thin add a little more yolk of egg. Form it into quenelles, put these into a buttered saute-pan, pour over some boiling stock, and poacli them for about fifteen minutes. Take them out, drain them on a cloth, put them into a tureen, pour over as much strained macaroni soup as is required, and serve very hot with grated Parmesan Cheese on a separate dish. The macaroni from the soup may be served with it or not as desired. Parmesan Cheese and Rice.—Peel and slice two small onions, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter, and fry them; then add \ pint of shelled or tinned shrimps and 1 table-spoonful of dry French mustard. Stir the mixture well for a few minutes, then move it off the fire. Wash 2oz. of rice and boil it; when cooked it should be dry and each grain separate. Put the rice in with the fried onion and shrimps, add 2oz. of grated Parmesan Cheese, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Stir the mixture over the fire until the cheese has well dissolved. Turn it on to a hot dish, garnish with croutons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Parmesan Cheese Sauce.—Put l pint of rich creamy veloute sauce into a saucepan, add 1 breakfast-cupful of freshly- grated Parmesan Cheese, bring the sauce to the boil, rub or wring it through a cloth, and use as required. Parmesan Cheese Soup.—(1) Cut one or two rolls into thin slices, put them into a bowl of cream, soak them, and put them on a plate. Cover liberally on both sides with grated Parmesan Cheese, then put them into a tureen, pour over some rich soup, and serve. Toasted brown bread may be used instead of the rolls. (2) Peel and cut into strips about lin. in length three small carrots, turnips, and onions; wash and cut a head of celery into pieces the same length. Melt 2oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the vegetables with a small quantity of sugar, cover tightly with the lid, and place it over a slow fire. Shake the vegetables about occasionally until lightly browned, then pour in about 3 pints of good broth, and boil them until tender. Cut a stale French roll into slices of a moderate thickness, then cut them out with a small round cutter into pieces about the size of a shilling; dip them in melted butter, and roll them in finely-grated Parmesan Cheese, giving them a good coating. Cover a baking- sheet with white paper, lay the pieces of bread on it, and bake them a pale golden colour in a brisk oven. Place the Par- mesan croutons in a soup-tureen, strain the soup through a fine hair sieve over them, and serve immediately. Parmesan Cheese Water Pie.—Put 21b. of flour on a table and make a dent in the middle, in which put 1 salt- spoonful of salt and as many beaten eggs as it will require to make a softisli paste. Knead it well, divide it into several equal-sized portions, and roll them out. Put a saucepan of water over the fire with a lump of salt in it, and when it boils scald the pieces of paste, one at a time, with the exception of two. Drain and dry the pieces of paste on a cloth, and smooth them out carefully. Butter a baking-tin, lay in one of the unscalded pieces of paste, and baste it with 1 table-spoonful of warmed butter; lay half Parmesan Cheese—continued. of the scalded pieces on the top of that, basting these also with a little warmed butter. Grate |lb. of Parmesan Cheese, and mix with it a few table-spoonfuls of chopped fennel and one or two raw eggs; season the mixture ■with salt and pepper, spread it over the pieces of paste, cover the cheese with the remaining scalded pieces of paste, moistening each with a small quantity of warmed butter as before. Lay the unscalded piece of paste on the top, butter it, and put it into a quick oven ; when cooked and nicely browned, cut the pastiy into any form liked, put it on a dish, and serve while very hot. This dish is a famous one in Turkey, and it is especially light and agreeable. PARR. — The name usually applied to the young salmon, but by some it is used for a small species of trout which is in season during the months of July and August. They may be cooked like ordinary trout, but are best fried. PARiSLEY (Fr. Persil; Ger. Petersilie; Itul. Petro- sellino; Sp. Perescil).—This plant (Petroselinum sativum), Lindley tells us, is said to have derived its botanical name from the Greek petros—a stone, from its being a native of rocky or stony places; but there is good reason to believe that it has a widely different origin. Parsley has ever been an object of superstitious observance; for besides its being the assigned plant from beneath which came our brothers and sisters, we remember how it was always considered such ill luck to transplant it that but few people in the Midland counties could be got to perform such an act. Mr. John Jones, of Gloucester, who has published some interesting notes upon this subject, on asking a person to whom the order to remove a bed of Parsley to another place had been vainly repeated, the reason for this neglect, received a reply to the following effect: Fig. 105. Curled Parsley. He was quite willing to root it up and destroy it entirely, but transplant it he would not, nor did he know anyone who would willingly take upon himself the consequences of such an act. Mr. Jones thinks that it is probable this herb was dedicated to Persephone, as queen of the dead, presuming her to be identical with Hecate or Selene; the resemblance of its Greek name (Selinou) to that of the last-named divinity at once suggesting its direct derivation from it. The correctness of this supposition is supported by other etymological considerations, as thus— its Greek name being preserved with the prefix of Peter: Archaic Greek Latin ... Italian German French Welsh English Selinou Petroselinum Petrosellino Petersilie Persil Perllys Parsley