168 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pies—continued. pour tlie gravy out at the side. Skim the fat off the gravy, flavour it with mushroom ketchup, and pour it hack in the Pie through the hole in the centre. Serve the Pie while hot. Swiss Pie.—Cut 21b. of rump steak into moderate-sized pieces, and split four mutton kidneys open; put the meat into a stewpan with a thinly-sliced Spanish onion, pour in a sufficient quantity of cold water to cover, season to taste with salt and pepper, and set the stewpan over the fire. Peel and hoil about a dozen moderate-sized potatoes, drain them before they are too much cooked, cut them into moderately thick slices, and fry them a delicate brown in butter. When the meat is cooked, turn it into a game Pie-dish, arrange the browned potatoes, overlapping each other, on the top, and serve. Tartar’s Pie.—Add 1 teaspoonful of salt to lib. of flour, and mix it to a soft flexible paste with two eggs and some water. Roll the paste out to Jin. in thickness, then cut it into square pieces, 2in. long and 2in. broad. Finely mince some raw mutton, lamb, beef, or other meat, judging the quantity hy the number of pieces of paste; put it in a frying-pan with a lump of hutter, and fry it till cooked. Put about J teaspoonful of the meat in one corner of each piece of paste, then fold the other half over it, giving it a triangular shape, and press the edges with the fingers to make them adhere. Put a saucepan three-parts full of water over the fire, and when it boils, throw in the pieces of paste, and boil them until cooked. Drain the Pies, brush them over with dissolved butter and curd, arrange them on a hot dish, dust a small quantity of pepper over, and serve them. In the boiling, care must be taken that the pieces of paste do not stick together. Thatched Pie.—Butter a Pie-dish thickly, and then arrange a layer of vermicelli at the bottom and in lines standing- up, sticking in the butter round the sides; fill the centre with any kind of well-seasoned fish forcemeat, packing it so that it may stand above the sides of the dish; pour in J pint or so of rich gravy, which, when cold, will set into a strong jelly. Bake the Pie for about one hour in a moderate oven. When cooked, leave the Pie till cold; then turn it out of the Pie-dish on to a flat dish like a jelly, and send it to table. Turkish Girdle Pie.—Put 21b. of flour into a basin with a small quantity of salt, and stir in sufficient water to make a softish paste. Knead the paste well, leave it for a few minutes, then divide it into ten or twelve pieces, each of which pin out round to the size of a tea-plate, and very thin. Finely mince some raw mutton, or beef if preferred, and mix 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped onions with it, seasoning with salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon. Lay some of the mixture over one-half of each piece, then double the other half over; moisten the edges slightly with a paste-brush dipped in water, and press them together with the fingers. Put a slightly-domed piece of thin iron on a trivet over a charcoal fire; when it begins to get hot, brush it over with a paste- brush dipped in warmed hutter, lay the pieces of paste on it, and cook them till nicely browned on both sides, basting them occasionally with the paste-brush dipped in warmed butter. When nicely cooked, lift them off the iron with a slice, and arrange them across each other on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper placed on a hot dish, and serve. Washington Pie.—(1) Put into a basin lib. of breadcrumbs, Jib. of finely-chopped suet, Jib. each of well-washed currants and stoned raisins, 2 teaspoonfuls of mixed ground spices, Jib. of brown sugar or molasses, two eggs, 1 tea- cupful of vinegar, and 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and mix them thoroughly. Butter a baking-tin, and cover the bottom witli a thin layer of short-paste; pour in the mixture, cover it with another layer of paste, brush over the top with heaten egg, and bake it in a moderate oven for three-quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, sprinkle caster sugar over the top of the Pie, cut it into squares, and serve either hot or cold. (2) Peel and blanch 4oz. of almonds, put them into a mortar with 2oz. of powdered sugar, and pound them Pies—continued. thoroughly, adding gradually one raw egg. When well pounded, add 2oz. more of powdered sugar, 2oz. of melted butter, J gill of rum, J saltspoonful of ground cinnamon, six drops of orange flower water, and break in another egg. Pound the whole briskly for five minutes, then add 2oz. of well-pounded macaroons, and mix again for two minutes longer. Line a Pie-dish with light paste, pour all the preparation over, cover over with more paste, and bake in a moderate oven ; place the Pie on a dish, decorate the top and sides artistically with 2oz. of candied cherries, 3oz. of pear, loz. of angelica, 2oz. of apricot, and 2oz. of pineapple, all the fruits being candied, and send to the table. PIGS.—In a book called the “ Pantropheon,” said to have been written by the noted Soyer, we read: “If intelli- gence, strength, or graceful beauty of form were to decide what rank this animal should occupy on our tables, the Pig, with its vile and stupid ugliness, its depraved habits and waddling obesity, would be banished for ever. But, in refusing to it brilliant external qualites, Nature, by a wise compensation, has conferred on it others much more solid; and this quadruped, so despised during its lifetime, does not fail, after its death, to conciliate the favour of rich and poor. “ Pliny, the naturalist, placed the Pig one degree below the scale of human beings. Apicius, the cook, gave it a marked preference over all meats which passed through his skilful hands. From this it will be readily understood that the Pig ranks high in the animal diet of all nations. The Pig is variously estimated by different countries. Certain people consecrated it, when living, to their divinities; others honoured its image—a symbol, they thought, of the quiet happiness of states. A small number abhorred it, and the greater part found it excellent eating. “ The inhabitants of Cyprus abstained from it, in order to offer it to Yenus. The Cretans loaded it with acorns and all the comforts of life, because Jupiter was believed to have been first suckled by a sow in their island. The Egyptian priests never allowed a ham to grace their feasts; they fled at the sight of Pigs—unclean animals, whose presence alone defiled them, although respected by the whole nation on account of the services they ren- dered in turning up the earth and covering the seeds thrown upon it. The law of Moses forbade the Jews to eat pork or touch a Pig after its death; and more than once they exposed themselves to the most frightful torments rather than be defiled by this proscribed viand. Tradition, again, strengthened their religious dread by interdicting the faithful from even pronouncing the name of this animal, from looking at it,, or selling it to foreign nations.” From time immemorial the flesh of the Pig (Sus scrofa) has been considered the most tasty of all meats. It consti- tutes pork, bacon, and ham, and its fat makes famous lard. All these are described under special headings. Under this heading we are only able to include the various parts of the Pig which do not come under the denomination of pork. Pig’s Cheek, Jowl, or Pace.—These special parts of the Pig’s-head require notice, as they are regarded by many in light of titbits. Pig’s Cheek or Jowl may be either freshly pickled, dried or smoked (see Bath Chaps). The following are good receipts for cooking them: Dried Pigs’ Faces.—Rub the required number of Pigs’ faces over with salt and saltpetre in the proportion of 8oz. of salt to loz. of saltpetre. Put them into a jar of pickle, let them remain for three or four weeks, and then hang them up in a warm place to dry. W hen wanted for use, put them In a saucepan of water, and boil until they are done. Take them out, drain oil' the liquor, brown them a little with a salamander, and they are ready for use.