985 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. and let it simmer very gently until the meat is tender. When cooked, pick out the best pieces of meat and vege- tables, put them in a soup-tureen, and pass the remainder with the liquor through a fine hair sieve over them, nibbing them through to form a kind of puree. Serve while very hot. (8) Cut in small squares Jib. of lean Mutton and half an onion, and brown them in a saucepan with a little fat on the hot range. Moisten with 3 pints of white broth, and season with J pinch each of salt and pepper; add J pint of finely-chopped vegetables, a little celery cut up, and 1 table-spoonful of well-washed barley. Boil well together for forty minutes, pour into a hot soup-tureen, and serve. (9) Cut Jib. of Mutton into small bits, carefully re- moving all fat and skin, add a very small quantity of salt, put the meat into a bowl, pour over J pint of warm water (not boiling), cover it, and let it stand near the fire for half-an-hour; then turn it into a saucepan, put it over the fire, and let it just come to the boil. As soon as it boils, skim it well, cover the saucepan, draw it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for an hour. Strain through a hair sieve and put it into a cool place till required for use. In cold weather it will keep for about two days. (10) Scotch.—The same as for No. 8, substituting J breakfast-cupful of oatmeal for the barley ten minutes before serving. Mutton Cakes.—Trim off the fat and skin from 31b. or 41b. of raw Mutton and chop, the lean, then put it in a mortar and pound. Peel and finely mince three onions and mince a small bunch of well-washed parsley, and mix them with the pounded meat, working it until quite smooth. Divide the mixture into small equal quantities, and shape them into round cakes; put a lump of fresh butter in a frying- pan, dissolve it, put in the cakes, and fry them till nicely browned. Put 2 table-spoonfuls of Hour in a saucepan, then stir in gradually 1J breakfast-cupfuls of brown gravy ; season with salt, squeeze in the juice of a lemon, and con- tinue stirring it over the fire until thick. Put the meat cakes on a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve. Mutton Chops Breaded and Sautes.—Flatten six thick Mutton chops, pare nicely, .and season with 1 table-spoon- ful of salt and 1 teaspoonful of pepper. Dip them in beaten egg, roll in sifted breadcrumbs, and place in a saute-pan with loz. of clarified butter. Cook for four minutes on each side, and serve with J pint of any hot sauce or garnishing required. Mutton Chops a la Maintenon.—Cut off some Mutton chops of equal thickness, and butter them well. Chop very fine some parsley, sweet herbs, and eschalots, mix them well together, and cover the chops with them. Put the chops in a pan and fry until three-parts done, take them out, brush over with egg, and sprinkle over some breadcrumbs and more herbs if there are not sufficient adhering to them. Wrap each chop up in buttered or oiled paper, put them in a pan, and broil until quite done. Whole capers with a little of their vinegar seasoned with cayenne may be served with them, or some of the liquor from the chops, skimmed, and an equal quantity of veal gravy added and made hot, and then seasoned with a little lemon-juice or vinegar, may be served in a tureen. Mutton Coquilles.—These, if nicely made, are most delicious. Open a tin of Mutton, turn the meat out, scrape off the fat, then cut the meat into small dice-shaped bits, and fill some scallop shells or large oyster shells with it. Warm some butter till melted, pour a little over the meat in the shells, cover this pretty thickly with breadcrumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, then pour on a little more of the melted butter; put the shells in a quick oven, and bake till the tops are brown. If the oven is not hot enough to brown them, make the coquilles hot hi the oven and then brown the tops with a red-hot salamander. A little chopped parsley may be mixed with the meat when filling the shells, and is considered an improvement. Mutton Cromeskies.—(1) Trim off the skin and fat from some cold Mutton, and finely mince the lean; put loz. of Mutton—continued. butter hi a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir them over the fire until well mixed, then pour in gradually a good J breakfast-cupful of nicely-flavoured stock. Stir it until boiling, then put hi the mince with a moderate quantity each of chopped thyme and parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Let it heat gradually at the side of the fire, then stir in the beaten yolk of an egg. Cut some slices of Mutton- fat about 2Jin. long and 2in. wide, put a small quantity of the mince on each, and roll them up tightly, tying them round with fine twine. In about an hour’s time, dip each of the cromeskies in a good frying-batter, put them into a stewpan with plenty of boiling fat, and fry until lightly browned. Drain the cromeskies as free from fat as possible, pile them on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a border of filed parsley, and serve. (2) Cut some slices of bacon very thin, about 1 Jin. wide by 2m. long, put them on a board with a little minced Mutton on each, roll them up tightly so that none of the mince can escape, dip them into batter, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry till lightly browned. Take them out, drain them, arrange on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve with mashed potatoes. Mutton Croquettes.—(1) Finely chop some raw leg of Mutton, and mix with it 4 table-spoonfuls of finely-minced onions and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of well-washed rice; season the mixture with salt and pepper, work it well with the hands, form into cork shapes, and plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water. When three-parts cooked, drain, and leave them till cold. Beat the yolks of four eggs, melt a good- sized lump of butter in a frying-pan, dip the croquettes in the beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and fry them in the butter. When nicely browned, drain, and arrange them in a pile upon a folded table-napkin on a hot dish, garnish with filed parsley, and serve. (2) Chop some cold Mutton as finely as possible and mix with it about a third of the quantity of minced oysters. Put loz. of liutter in a stewpan with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, mix them well over the fire without browning, then pour in gradually about 1 pint of stock. Stir it over the fire until reduced to a rather thick sauce, season to taste, put in the minced ingredients, and continue stirring for a few minutes, then turn out on to a dish and let it get quite cold. Divide the mixture into small quantities and mould them into egg-shaped balls. Dip them in beaten yolk of egg and breadcrumbs, then egg and breadcrumbs again; put a lump of butter or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, and when it boils put hi the croquettes and fry them until a pale golden brown all over. When cooked, take them out of the pan and drain off as much of the fat as possible on a sheet of kitchen-paper in front of the fire. Arrange them hi a circle on a hot dish, with a small bunch of fried parsley between each, fill the centre with a puree of peas or any other kind of vegetable preferred, and serve. (3) Take the lean of a cold roasted joint of Mutton, mince it carefully, removing all skin and fat, and add to it a small quantity of very finely-minced bacon and calf’s udder; season with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a little chopped parsley, and add two or three chopped mush- rooms and a little mashed potatoes or fine breadcrumbs. Mix all well together, and make it into a paste with beaten yolk of egg. Form this paste into balls, flatten them a little, dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs ; let them stand ten minutes, then roll them again in the breadcrumbs, and fry hi boiling lard or clarified fat or butter. When they are of a golden brown, drain them on paper, and serve with tomato sauce. (4) Cut oft about 1 Jib. of Mutton and mince it very fine. Put 1 pint of poulette sauce into a saucepan and reduce it to J pint, thicken with the yolks of three eggs, stir hi the minced meat, and add 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and salt and pepper to taste. Mix thoroughly and spread it out on a dish to about 1 Jin. in thickness, and when it is firm and cold divide it into sixteen equal parts. Lay the sixteen portions of meat about 2in. apart on a board sprinkled over with breadcrumbs to about Ain. thick,