TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 153 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <£c., referred to, see under their special heads. Pheasants—continued. gently for half-an-hour in milk. Take them up and let them get cold; prick the boudins here and there with the point of a skewer, wrap each one separately in a sheet of buttered paper, and put them in a quick oven until they are thoroughly hot through. Remove the paper, and arrange the boudins on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental disli-paper, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (‘2) Prepare a forcemeat as directed for No. 1. Fry a small chopped onion in butter without browning it, then mix it with the forcemeat. Cut some sheets of paper into strips, 4in. long and 2Jin. wide, butter them, and put on each, with the handle of a spoon, a piece of forcemeat 3Jin. long, 1 Jin. wide, and about Jin. thick or thereabouts. Move part of the forcemeat from the centre of each boudin, so as to form a hollow Jin. deep and fin. wide; put in the hollow a salpifon, made with truffles, fillets of cooked pheasant and tongue, and some stiffly reduced Spanish sauce, without quite filling it; and cover the salpifon with forcemeat. Put the boudins in a saute-pan with some general stock, and let them simmer for fifteen minutes. Boil some Spanish sauce with essence of game till reduced to half. When cooked, drain the boudins on a cloth, arrange them in a circle on a hot dish, pour the reduced sauce over, and serve. Braised Pheasant.—Prepare and truss a Pheasant as for boiling. Line a stewpan with slices of fat bacon and one or two thick slices of veal, put in the bird, seasoning it well with salt and pepper; add a few sweet herbs, cover it with more slices of bacon and veal, cover the stewpan down perfectly air-tight, and put it into a moderate oven and cook it for two hours. When done, put the bird on a hot dish, strain over it some of the gravy that will have run from it whilst cooking, garnish it with sliced lemons, and serve. Braised Pheasant a la Finaneiere.—Prepare and braise two Pheasants. Then prepare a finaneiere ragout with foies gras, cocks’ combs, truffles and Pheasant forcemeat quenelles, and mix with them some finaneiere sauce. Put a block of fried bread in the centre of a dish, sticking it on to the dish with white of egg and flour-paste; arrange the Pheasants leaning against each end of the bread, put the ragout in the dish in order, put a row of Pheasant forcemeat quenelles below each Pheasant, a cooked and larded sweet- bread each side of the bread, with cooked truffles on each. Put four crayfish and some cocks’ combs in the spaces, and put another larded and cooked sweetbread on the top of the bread. Get five silver attelettes and garnish them with cocks’ combs, truffles, and crayfish, stick them in the Pheasants and sweetbreads, and serve with a sauceboat- ful of finaneiere sauce that has been reduced with essence of Pheasant. Braised Pheasants a la Soyer.—Singe and draw three young Pheasants and truss them as for boiling. Chop the livers and Jib. of beef-suet, and put them in a mortar with lib. of breadcrumbs, a small quantity of chopped thyme and parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Pound the mixture well, and bind it with four beaten eggs. Stuff the birds with the forcemeat and braise them, with vegetables. Shape a croustade like the bow of a ship and dress it at the head of the dish; or- nament a large quenelle with pieces of truffles, stick it through lengthwise with a silver skewer, and fix it at the top of the croustade. When cooked, arrange two of the Pheasants on the dish, with their tails touching the croustade, and the other between with its breast towards the end of the dish. While the Pheasants are cooking, pre- pare the following sauce: Put 2qts. of essence of game in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of clear broth, and boil it till of a thick creamy consistency; then put in some heads of mushrooms and dressed cocks’ combs. Mask the Pheasants over with the sauce, and serve. Braised Pheasants with Pat Goose Liver and Truffles. —Cut lib. of fat liver (foie gras) and lib. of truffles into small squares, and sprinkle over them a small quantity of salt and pepper. Stuff two Pheasants with this preparation, and truss them as for braising; tie some thin slices of fat Pheasants—continued. bacon over them (see Bakding), and put them in a braising-pan with the drainer in it. Pour in with the Pheasants H breakfast-cupfuls of mirepoise and 1 break- fast-cupful of white wine, put the lid on the pan, with some live embers on it, and let the contents simmer gently over a slow fire for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Lard and braise two fat livers. Prepare as for garnish 1 dozen or so cocks’ kernels, 1 dozen or so truffles, and 1 dozen large and white cocks’ combs. Cut a block of bread 4in. long and 2in. wide, and cut it out at each end on the top for the Pheasants to rest against, fry the bread in boiling lard, then drain and fix it in the centre of a hot dish with a little fiour mixed in the white of egg. When cooked, drain the Pheasants, untie them, and put them, resting against the bread crop upwards, one at each end of the dish. Fill the spaces with truffles, fat livers, cocks’ combs .and kernels in such way as to completely cover the bread. Garnish three attelettes (skewers) with cocks’ combs and truffles, mask them with a little Spanish sauce that has been reduced with essence of truffles, and serve with a boatful of the same sauce. Broiled Cutlets of Pheasant.—(1) Draw and clean two well-hung Pheasants and cut them up; take out the bones from the legs and breasts, and put them with the trimmings into a saucepan; put in also a carrot and turnip, two or three sprigs of sweet herbs, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and about f pint of water or stock. Let it simmer by the side of the fire for three-quarters-of- an-hour. Trim the pieces of Pheasant into cutlets, stick a small bone at the end of each, dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire. When the cutlets are cooked, arrange them in a pyramid on a hot dish; strain and thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter mixed together, pour it over the cutlets, and serve. (2) Cut out the fillets of three young Pheasants, trim them, and divide the fillets of each Pheasant into six cutlets, reserving the small bones to stick at the end of each; then dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumbs, put them on a gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire, turn- ing to do both sides equally. Arrange the cutlets when cooked on a hot dish, pour over them some brown sauce flavoured with fumet of game, and serve. s, (3) Prepare some cutlets from the fillets of some young Pheasants, making two with the large ones and one with the small ones. Beat the cutlets lightly to flatten them, trim them to a nice shape, dip them in beaten egg and then in breadcrumbs, and broil them over a clear fire. When nicely browned, arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, fill the centre with a brown sauce flavoured with fumet of game, and serve them. Broiled Pheasant.—Cut the bird into four pieces and fry them in lard; when nicely browned all over and half-done through, take them from the fire, drain the lard from them, brush over with beaten egg, roll them in a paper of breadcrumbs mixed with salt and cayenne, put them on a hot well-greased gridiron, and broil them for ten minutes over a clear fire. Chaudfroid of Pheasants.—Pluck and trass two Pheasants, wrap them in buttered paper, and roast them without colouring. When cold, cut them up into several pieces, strip oft’ the skin, dip them in chaudfroid sauce, and leave on a dish to set. Arrange some small evenly-cut pieces of the fillets in a border-mould; fill it with half-set savoury aspic jelly, and when the jelly is quite set turn out the border on to a dish. Fix a crouton of fried bread in the centre, and pile the pieces of Pheasant over it. A few sprigs of parsley may be tucked in here and there to complete the effect. Collops of Pheasant in Cases.—Cut off the meat of some Pheasants, cut it into thin collops, put them in a saute- pan_ with a couple of minced truffles, and fry them in clarified butter. Oil slightly some paper-cases, about 2in. in diameter, and put them in a slack oven for five minutes. Drain the Pheasant collops and truffles when done, put them in the cases, pour in a little Spanish sauce that has been reduced with essence of truffles, and serve,