124 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dc., referred to, see under their special heads. Fatties—continued. sieve; chop them quickly, and keep hot. Fry a chopped onion in butter, then mix with it some parsley-roots, celery-roots, and mushrooms, all cut in dice. Fry all together for a few minutes, sprinkle salt, pepper, and a little flour over them, moisten with a little broth, and stir the liquid while boiling. Add the chopped sweetbread, continue stirring over the lire for two minutes, then take it off, and mix in five hard-boiled eggs and a little chopped parsley. Roll lib. of short-paste out thin, cut it into small rounds with a tin cutter 2in. in diameter, put on the centre of each round a little of the preparation in the shape of an oval quenelle, then draw up the paste on both sides, and pinch the edges together with the fingers. Arrange the Patties on a baking-sheet, dip a paste-brash in beaten egg, brush them over with it, and bake in a hot oven for twenty minutes. Put the Patties on a folded napkin on a dish, and serve either hot or cold. Swiss Patties.—Cut some thick slices of stale bread into round pieces with a biscuit-cutter; with a cutter a size or two smaller cut a small piece from the middle of each round piece (not right through) and scoop it out so that each round is hollowed without having a hole made right through it. When all the pieces are cut and hollowed, dip them in well-beaten egg, dredge well with cracker-crumbs rolled to a very fine powder, fry them a pale brown in boiling lard or dripping, and drain on kitchen-paper. When all are fried, arrange them on a hot dish, and fill each one with nicely-thickened hot minced veal or chicken. FATJPIETTES.—The literal meaning of this term would probably be little peeps, it being derived from the French paupiere—an eye-lid. This may be in allusion to the forcemeat peeping from between the rolls of the material which encloses it. Nowadays, in a well-made Paupiette, the cook is careful that the forcemeat shall Fig. 174. Paupiette of Beef. not be exposed (see Fig. 174). The following receipts are very good examples of what Paupiettes should be, other receipts being found under special headings, such as Beef, &c. Paupiettes a la Milanaise.—Cut about twelve thin slices, about ‘2in. wide and 6in. long, from a loin of cold roasted veal, trim them, removing all the sinew, and beat them flat. Mince very finely 6oz. each of ham and lean veal and 4oz. of beef kidney-suet. Season to taste with chopped sweet herbs, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, and a very small quantity of garlic. Bind the mixture with beaten egg, dust each slice of veal with salt and pepper, and put a small quantity of the chopped mixture on each. Roll them up and tie them with pieces of string. Cut the same number of thin slices of ham, and thread them alter- nately with the Paupiettes on skewers. Butter the interior of a flat stewpan, lay the skewers in it side by side, dredge them lightly with flour, and baste with a few table-spoonfuls of clarified butter. Put them in a brisk oven, and bake until nicely browned. Place the Paupiettes on a hot dish, leaving them on the skewers, pour the re- mains of the basting-butter over them, garnish with cut lemons and parsley, and serve while very hot. Wurtemberg Paupiettes.—Mix 6 table-spoonfuls of flour with six beaten eggs and f A breakfast-cupfuls of milk. Paupiettes—continued. Season with a little salt and pounded mace, then strain the mixture through a fine hair sieve. Fry the above like omelets in clarified liutter, keeping them as thin and broad as possible. When cooked, turn them out on to a plate, leave them to cool, then cut them into squares. Fry six chickens’ livers in clarified butter, chop and pound them, and mix with them Jib. of cooked ham and the meat of a cooked minion fillet of veal, also chopped and pounded. Season the mixture and bind it with the yolks of two and the white of one egg. Pass it through a fine hair sieve, and spread a layer of it on each of the squares. Cut them into strips 4in. long and lin. wide, roll them and tie them round, lay them side by side in a baking- dish, baste with warmed butter, cover with grated stale breadcrumbs, and bake them from fifteen to twenty minutes. When the Paupiettes are cooked, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. FAYSANNE, A LA.—Literally the style adopted by peasants. From the receipts given, as Potage a la Pay- sanne and Petits Pois a la Paysanne, the French Peasant, after whom they are named, might be said to vie with the highest peers in the land, so far as artistic culinary taste is concerned. FEAS (Fr. Petits Pois; Ger. Erbsen; Ital. Piselli; Sp. Guisantes).—The history of the Garden Pea (Pisum sativum) and the date of its introduction into England A, Field Pea ; B, Scimitar Pea; C, Marrow-fat Pea. seems to be rather obscure. The plant is said to be a native of the South of Europe, and to have been introduced into this country through France and Holland in the reign ' of Henry VIII. Since the date of their introduction