984 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Mutton—continued. put in the balls, and baste them with 1 teacupful of water. Stand the basin in a saucepan, pour round it some hot water, taking care that it does not enter the basin, put the lid on the saucepan, solder round the edges with paste to keep it air-tight, and place it over a smothered lire. In about two or three hours’ time the balls will be ready, then turn them on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Finely mince about 21b. or 31b. of leg of Mutton, peel and chop four onions, put them in a mortar, and pound them to extract their juice. Mix the onion-juice and 1 teacupful of ground rice with the minced meat, knead it well, season with salt and pepper, and divide it into small portions, which roll into balls. Cover well with finely-chopped parsley, and lay them side by side in a saucepan. Moisten with 1 teacupful of clear broth and the juice of a lemon, place the lid on, and cook slowly at the side of the fire. When the moisture has some- what evaporated, more broth should be added. When the balls are cooked, arrange them tastefully on a hot dish, and serve with as little delay as possible. Mutton en Brochettes.—Cut a leg or some loin of Mutton into small equal-sized pieces, rub them over with finely- chopped onion, salt, pepper, and powdered cinnamon, lay them on a plate, placing another one on the top, and leave them for a few hours. Cut lib. of tomatoes into halves, put them in a mortar, and press them to extract their juice, which pass through a fine hair sieve. Place the pieces of meat on skewers, put them in front of a brisk fire, and turn them often so as to brown equally, basting them with the tomato-juice. When they are cooked, put them on a hot dish, and serve while very hot. If fresh tomatoes are not in season, take about 1 tea- cupful of the liquor of preserved ones, strain it through a fine hair sieve to free it of all pips, and mix it with 1 breakfast-cupful of water. Mutton en Masquerade.—Take a half roasted shoulder of Mutton, cut the skin off, and mince the meat, adding to it a seasoning of pepper and salt and a few chopped oysters. Mix a little good gravy with it, and put it back on the bone in its original shape. Cover with sifted breadcrumbs and brown well. Mutton a la Prince of Wales.—Bone a shoulder of Mutton, lay it on a deep dish, and sprinkle over 1 teaspoon- ful each of bruised cloves, cardamoms, allspice, coriander- seeds, and long peppers; baste it with 1 breakfast-cupful of common claret and 4 breakfast-cupful of white wine vinegar, and 2 or 3 table spoonfuls of salad-oil. Leave the shoulder in the pickle for twenty-four hours. Put the bones and trimmings in a saucepan with 2qts. of white stock, and stew gently at the edge of the fire for several hours until all the goodness is extracted, then strain the stock, which should have been reduced to about half its former quantity, into a basin, and when cold skim off all the fat. When sufficiently pickled, drain the meat, roll it, fasten with a skewer, put it into a saucepan with a few pieces of carrot, turnip, and leek, and four or five dried champig- nons, pour the stock of the bones over the meat, and stew gently until tender. Soak |oz. of gelatine in red wine ; when cooked, drain the meat and put it on a hot dish, strain its cooking-liquor into a small saucepan, stir the gelatine into it, and boil until reduced to a demi-glaze. Cut into rings some boiled carrots and turnips, saut6 them in butter, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, arrange them in al- ternate order round the meat, pour the glaze over the shoulder, and serve. Mutton Broth. —(1) Wash 21b. of the scrag end of a neck of Mutton, wipe it with a cloth, cut off the fat and skin, scrape the meat off the bones, and chop it into small squares. Put the meat into a saucepan with 3 pints of water, and the broken bones into another pan with 1 pint of water. Place the pan containing the bones at the side of the fire, and let its contents simmer gently until wanted. In the meantime put the pan with the meat over a quick fire, boil it up, skimming frequently, and when the scum comes up quite white put in 1 pint of pearl bai ley and skim again. Cut a carrot, turnip, and an equal quantity of celery into small pieces, and fry them in 1 table-spoonful of butter Mutton—continued. for five minutes; add them to the meat, and simmer gently for about four hours, when the meat and barley should be quite tender. Put 1 table-spoonful of flour into a sauce- pan with 1 table-spoonful of butter, place the pan over the fire, and when the flour is smooth add the strained broth from the bones and pour it into the meat broth. Add 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley, 1 salt- spoonful of pepper, and 2 table-spoonfuls of salt' Simmer gently for ten minutes longer, and serve without straining. In most cases the meat is preferred strained from the broth, but if the skin and fat are caiefully removed the strong disagreeable flavour will be prevented. A larger quantity of vegetables may be added, if desired, or rice can be used instead of barley, or the meat may be cut into dice and fried for a few minutes in butter. If the carrots are grated they will give the broth a fine colour. (2) Cut into dice lib. of the lean meat from the neck or loin chops, or even from a leg of Mutton, and put it into a saucepan with lqt. of water; add one minced carrot, onion, and turnip, a little celery-seed tied in a bag, and three or four white peppercorns. Put the pan on the fire and boil for an hour, or until the water is reduced to 1 pint, if it is required very good, but if not, more water should be added occasionally to keep it up to its original quantity. When done, put the meat on a dish, with a garnish of the carrots, &c., strain the brjth, let it cool, skim it well of fat, warm up, and serve in a tureen or basin. (3) Chop lib. of lean, juicy Mutton into very small pieces, put it into a saucepan, pour over 1 pint of cold water, and let it stand until the meat is very red. Put the pan at the side of the fire to heat slowly, simmer the contents gently for ten minutes, strain well, remove all the fat, and serve. The Mutton may be used for a mince. (4) Cut lib. of lean Mutton into small pieces, break the bones, and put the whole into a saucepan with suffi- cient water to cover it, and boil slowly. Add a slice each of onion and turnip, 1 teaspoonful of salt, and a little pepper. Simmer gently until the meat is in shreds; strain, and when it is quite cool remove all the fat. Pour it back into the saucepan, boil it up, and adl 1 table-spoonful of rice to every pint of broth; simmer gently until the rice is tender, being careful not to let the liquor boil away. Season with a little curry powder used in the same way as cayenne would be, or a few leaves of mint or a little celery-salt may be added instead. (5) Put 31b. of the scrag end of neck of Mutton into a saucepan with 3qts. of water, and add two turnips cut in slices and 1 table-spoonful of rice or pearl barley. Put the pan on the fire, and boil slowly for three hours, skimming frequently. When done strain it into a tureen, and serve with pieces of toasted bread. (6) Take about 5lb. or 61b. of neck of Mutton, have the bones well chopped, and put it over the fire in about 5qts. of water with 1 heaped teaspoonful of salt. Be careful that it only simmers, and let it simmer for an hour; then skim oil all the fat, add to it two or three medium-sized onions, two turnips, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 3oz. of rice, a seasoning of pepper, and 1 table-spoonful of Hour blended with some of the liquor so that it may be stirred quite smo >thly into the soup. Let all simmer together for two hours. The meat may be put on a hot dish and served with turnips and caper or nasturtium sauce. Serve the soup in a tureen. (7) Peel four or five rather large onions, slice them, and put them in a stewpan with a lump of beef-dripping and fry until brown. Take the onions out, fry in the dripping a few sliced carrots and turnips, and dust them over with salt. Chop the best end ofl' a large scrag of Mutton and cut it into slices, making 2qts. of nicely-flavoured stock with the remainder. Fry the slices of Mutton; put a layer of the fried vegetables at the bottom of a large stewpan, then a layer of the Mutton, next vegetables, and so on until all are in. Cover the stewpan, place it over a gentle fire, and leave it for three-quarters-of-an-hour, shaking the contents occasionally to prevent them burning. Afterwards strain in the stock made from the bones, &c.,