75 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Jcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. of four eggs beaten to a froth. Butter a charlotte-mould (one that will hold Jgall.), sprinkle it over inside with breadcrumbs, cover these with a layer of the potato mixture, and let it set for a few minutes. Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan with a slice of onion, boil it, and add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour mixed in about J teacupful of milk or cream. Sprinkle in salt and pepper to taste, and boil for eight minutes. Put lqt. of Oysters into a sauce- pan with their liquor, boil till tender, take them out, and drain on a colander. Remove the slice of onion from the cream, put in the drained Oysters, stir, and turn it out into the mould. Cover the top with a layer of the potato mixture, taking care not to put too much on at a time, or the liquor from the inside will ooze out. Put the mould into a moderate oven and bake for thirty minutes. Take it out when done, let it stand for ten minutes, then put a dish on the top; turn it over, and Fig. 92. Oysteii Chartreuse. take the mould off very carefully. Put a garnish of fried parsley round the dish (see Fig. 92), and serve. Great care must be taken in lining the mould with the potato mixture so that there are no small holes or cracks left in it, or the liquor will run out, and the effect of the dish would be spoilt. Oysters with. Cream.—(1) Take two hundred and fifty good- sized Oysters, lift them out of their liquor one at a time, and lay them in a deep pan. Strain half the liquor and boil it. Take 6oz. of butter, divide it into small lumps, roll them in flour, stir them into the boiling liquor, put in the Oysters, and take them out as soon as the liquor boils again. Stir in, very gradually, 11 pints of cream, add a seasoning of pepper or grated nutmeg and celery salt, and when it .again comes to the boil, return the Oysters to it; when they are heated through, pour into a hot dish, and serve. (2) Put 1 pint of cream into a saucepan with a small piece of onion, and a little mace tied up in a muslin bag. Boil it, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour mixed with a little milk or cream. Put lqt. of Oysters into a saucepan with their liquor, and boil them for a few minutes until tender, skimming frequently. Take out the Oysters, drain, put them into the saucepan with the cream, remove the onion and mace, pour it into a dish, and serve hot. (3) Boil three dozen Oysters in their own liquor for a few minutes, then strain, cut them into small pieces, and dredge with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Put 4oz. of butter in a stewpan, mix in 2oz. of flour, and stir over the fire until the butter has melted and mixed with the flour; then pour in f breakfast-cupful of cream, and stir until boiling. Move the saucepan off' the fire, and put in the Oysters with J table-spoonful of chopped parsley and 1 teaspoonful of very finely-chopped onion. Stir the mixture well, put it into large Oyster shells, strew grated breadcrumb over the top of each, distribute two or three small pieces of butter on them, and place them in a brisk oven until nicely browned. Arrange the shells with the Oysters on a hot dish, over which has been spread a 1 Oysters—conti nu ed. folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Oyster Cromeskies.—(1) Scald the required quantity of Oysters in their own liquor, and put them between slices of bacon cut very thin. Two Oysters are quite sufficient for one slice of bacon. Roll the bacon over and fasten the Oysters in with a small skewer. Fry them in a frying- pan, and when they are of a pale brown, take them out, place them on a dish, and serve hot. (2) Put one dozen Oysters into a saucepan and parboil them in their own liquor; take them out and chop them up, after the beards have been removed. Put a little butter into a saucepan, melt it, stir in a small quantity of flour, add the chopped Oysters, strain in the Oyster liquor, and add salt and pepper to taste and a little finely- chopped parsley. Mix thoroughly, remove the pan from the lire, and stir in the yolk of an egg and the juice of half a lemon. Have ready twelve slices of fat bacon cut thin and parboiled, and put the Oyster mixture on them in equal quantities. When cold fasten them over, securing them with a small skewer, dip them into batter, and fry to a light brown in boiling fat. When done, take them out, drain thoroughly, put them on a dish, and serve with a garnish of parsley. The slices of bacon should be cut 1 J2in. by 2Jin. before the mixture is put on. (3) Put a dozen Oysters into a saucepan with a little white wine, poach them for a few minutes, take them out, drain, and chop them up into small pieces. Put some reduced bechamel sauce in a saucepan, stir in a little of the strained Oyster liquor, and when it is succulent and well-thickened remove it from the fire and add the chopped Oysters. Sprinkle in a little grated nutmeg, turn the mixture out on to a flat pan, and let it cool. Take pieces the size of an egg, flatten them a little, and place them between pieces of pancake or wafer paste. Dip them into smooth thick frying-batter, plunge them into a pan of boiling fat, and fry for about ten minutes. Take them out, drain off' all the fat, arrange them on a napkin spread over a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. Large Oysters are best foj this dish. (4) Open two dozen Oysters, put them with their liquor in a stewpan, and partially boil them; drain the Oysters, remove their beards, and cut them into small pieces. Put 2oz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of Hour in a saucepan, mix them well over the fire, put in the Oysters and their « liquor, which should be strained, and 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, and season to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Stir the mixture for two or three minutes on the fire, then move it to the side and stir in the beaten yolks of two eggs and the strained juice of a small lemon. Spread the mixture out on a dish and let it cool. Cut some thin slices of partially boiled bacon in pieces 2Jin. long and 1 Jin. wide. Make a thick paste with flour, 1 table-spoonful of oil, and 1 table- spoonful of water, then stir in sufficient tepid water to make a thin batter; add at the last the well-whisked white of one egg and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Put a small quantity of the Oyster mixture on each piece of bacon, and roll it up tightly. Put a good-sized lump of butter or lard in a fiat stewpan, place it over the fire, and when blue smoke rises, which denotes that it is boiling, dip the cromeskies in the batter, put them in the fat, and fry until nicely browned. When taken out of the fat, lay them on a cloth or sheet of paper in front of the fire to drain. Spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper over a hot dish, arrange the cromeskies in a circle on it, fill the centre with crisp, fried parsley, and serve. Oyster Croquettes.—(1) Blanch six dozen Oysters, trim them, and chop the meat into small pieces; put it into a sauce- pan with a third of the bulk of mushrooms, cooked and cut into small pieces. Put 1 pint of bechamel sauce into a saucepan over a clear fire, reduce it, stirring frequently, and add a few table-spoonfuls of the Oyster liquor and a little cream. When it is well reduced and begins to froth add a liaison made with the yolks of three eggs to thicken it, and lastly add a small quantity of butter. Stir in the Oyster mixture, turn it out into a basin, and let it get quite cold, placing the basin if necessary on ice. Take