149 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Joe., referred to, see under their special heads. Pepper-Pot—continued. made of flour, eggs, and milk or water, simmer gently for fully lialf-an-hour, and serve as hot as possible. (5) If in the winter time, such vegetables as beetroot carrots, turnips, onions, and celery may be used; but if in the summer, French beans, cauliflowers, peas, lettuces, and spinach, also onions. Prepare the vegetables and cut them up into small pieces. Clean a fowl, disjoint it, cut the carcass across into four pieces, and put them in a large saucepan with the vegetables, about fib. or lib. of pickled pork cut into pieces about 2in. square, and about 1 tea- cupful of rice. Pour in 5 pints of water, and let the whole boil gently at the side of the fire for three hours, keeping it well skimmed. Pick the meat out of a lobster or crab, and put it in with the above ingredients twenty minutes before removing them from the fire. Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of flour smoothly with a small quantity of cold water, stir it into the hotch-potch, season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve it very hot. (6) Put 21b. of gravy beef into a saucepan with a bundle of sweet herbs and 3qts. of cold water, and place it over the fire until boiling ; then move it to the side and let it simmer for three or four horn's, keeping it well skimmed, When all the goodness is thoroughly extracted from the meat, leave the liquor until cold and then free it of fat. Pour the liquor into a saucepan, and place it over the fire until hot. Pick the flesh out of a large crab, cut it into small pieces, and put it into the soup with 4oz. of cold boiled pickled pork cut into small pieces, and some boiled and chopped spinach. Prepare a few small dumplings with 2oz. of chopped beef-suet, flour, the beaten yolk of one egg, and a small quantity of water to mix it into a paste. Put the dumplings in the soup with the juice of half a lemon, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Let it simmer gently for half-an-hour, stirring it occa- sionally to keep it from burning. Turn the soup when ready into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot. PEPPER PODS.—See Capsicums. PERCH (Fr. Perche; Ger. Barsch; Ital. Berticlie; Sp. Pereas).—Tlie Perch (Perea jiuviatilis) is found in most of the rivers, canals, and lakes of Great Britain, and numerous fish of the same tribe are found in various other Fig. 197. Perch. parts of Europe and also in America. The Thames Perch is famous (see Fig. 197); but not so famous perhaps as is the Giant Perch of Germany. This is known as the Zander, is especially abundant in the Elbe, and is cooked to perfection in Dresden. Prepared according to any of the following receipts, the flesh of the Perch is delicate and dainty. Perch are in season from the latter end of May to the beginning of February, during which time their con- dition may be judged by the rosy appearance of then- gills and general rough appearance. Boiled Perch.—(1) Clean and scale the fish, leaving the roe and liver inside. Pour a small quantity of water in a fish-kettle with a bunch of parsley, a lump of salt, and a small quantity of pepper, and boil the water until the parsley is soft; then put in the fish with a lump of butter, and boil it gently for ten or twelve minutes. When cooked, take the fish gently out of the fish-kettle, Perch—continued. lay it on a hot dish, strain the cooking liquor over, and serve it with Dutch sauce. (2) Clean and scale the fish, then put it in a fish- kettle with an onion, one bay-leaf, a small quantity of pepper, and boiling water to cover it. Finely chop two hard-boiled eggs and a few sprigs of parsley, and mix with them nearly double their quantity of finely-grated breadcrumb; season the mixture with grated nutmeg, salt and pepper. When the fish are cooked, take them out of the fish-kettle, being careful not to break them, and slip them on to a hot dish; spread the egg-and- breadcrumb mixture thickly over them, baste them with a few table-spoonfuls of their cooking-liquor, also a few table-spoonfuls of warmed butter, and serve. (3) Scrape off the scales, remove the spines from the back, and thoroughly clean and wash the Perch. Put them in a fish-kettle, cover them with cold water, and boil them very gently for twenty minutes or half-an-hour, according to the size of the fish. Drain the fish, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve with a fish sauce. (4) Scale and clean some large Perch and put them in a saucepan; work a little flour with 11 table-spoonfuls of butter, then put it in with the fish, adding also a bunch of finely-chopped sweet herbs, two or three small onions, and b pint of white wine. Let them simmer gently for twenty minutes. Drain the Perch when sufficiently cooked, put them on a folded napkin or ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish round with fried parsley, and serve. (5) Scale and clean the fish, leaving the milt and liver inside; put it in a fish-kettle with a small bunch of parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a lump of butter. Pour in a small quantity of boiling water, and boil gently until it is cooked, which will take from ten to fifteen minutes. Take the fish carefully out of the fish-kettle, lay it on a hot dish, strain its cooking liquor over, and serve. (6) German Style.—Scale and clean the fish, put it in a fish-kettle with an onion, a bay-leaf, and a small quantity of water, season with pepper, and boil it until tender. Grate about 1 breakfast-cupful of stale crumb of bread, and mix with it two chopped hard-boiled eggs, 1 table-spoonful of finely-minced parsley, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. When the fish are cooked, drain them carefully, put them on a hot dish, cover them with the breadcrumb mixture, baste them with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of their cooking liquor, pour about Jib. of warmed butter over them, and serve. (7) Dutch Style.—Put 2qts. of water in a fish-kettle with two bay-leaves, a few sprigs of parsley, 1 teacupful of vinegar, and 1 pinch of salt; when boiling, put in two Perch that have been cleaned, but not scaled. Let them simmer by the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an-hour, then drain them, and take off their skin and scales together. Wash the Perch in their liquor, put them on a hot dish, garnish with quarters of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve them with a sauceboatful of butter sauce, in which has been mixed a little chopped parsley and lemon-juice. Broiled Perch.—(1) Choose Perch of a moderate size, fresh from the water; scale and clean them, and dry them in Fig. 198. Broiled Perch. a napkin. Melt a good quantity of butter with some salt; let it be thick when it is cooled a little; dip tlie Perch in it, and roll it about till the butter sticks well to every part of it; then set a gridiron over a very clear