THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 63 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Falates—continued. |in. from the edge. Bake the paste in a brisk oven, cover- ing it with a sheet of paper when it begins to take colour. When the palates are cold, cut them into small rounds with a tin cutter about lin. in diameter, put them in a sauce- pan with a few mushrooms, lqt. of bechamel or white sauce, and U- teacupfuls of white stock. Boil for half- an-hour, then move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and mix in with the palates loz. of butter, h table-spoonful of chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful of sugar, a squeeze of lemon-juice, and salt and pepper to taste ; beat the yolks of two eggs together with 2 table-spoonfuls of milk, and stir them quickly into the sauce. Stir it over the fire until on the point of boiling, then move it off at once before it quite boils. When baked, lift the lid of the paste, scrape out the soft part with a knife, and fill it with the palate mixture. Spread a fancy dish-paper or a folded napkin on a hot dish, stand the vol-au-vent on it, and serve. Ox-Pith.—The marrow taken from the spinal column. See Amourettes. Ox-Tails.—Kettner informs us that the Ox-tail in which we now take a national pride was originally Huguenot, and we learned the taste for it from the poor Protestant refugees who settled about Bermondsey. In this region of the tanners there is or was a place known as the Borgeney—Petty Burgundy. The Huguenots, when they saw Ox-hides abounding about them, thought they could make something of the tails, which were then sold with the hides. They make an excellent soup. A philanthropist who happened to be a lover of good cheer was in the habit of visiting the homes of the poor Frenchmen here at Spitalfields, and Petty Burgundy. In Petty Burgmidy he came upon the Ox-tail soup, which opened his eyes; and he then made such a proclamation of the goodness of it, that it became in course of time a fashionable dish. Boiled Ox-Tails.—Cut two dozen small onions into a sauce- pan with 3 pints of water, and boil them for about twenty minutes. Cut two Ox-tails into pieces, put them in a saucepan with a large lump of butter and a large onion, and brown them ; then pour in the water from the boiled onions, adding more water if required to cover them. Add to the pan two or three carrots cut in pieces and an equal quantity of turnips cut in the same way, putting in the carrots about twenty minutes before the turnips. Stew slowly, and when the tails and vegetables are cooked take them out and keep hot on a dish. Put loz. of butter in another pan, melt it, stir in as much flour as will make it quite stiff, pour in the strained gravy from the tails, adding a little at a time, and stir well until it boils. Place the pieces of tails in the centre of the dish, arrange the vegetables round them, pour over the sauce, and serve with the boiled onions round the dish for garnish. Braised Ox-Tail with. Chestnut Puree.—Cut the thickest part of a fresh Ox-tail into pieces about 3m. long, soak them in water for a few hours, then blanch them. Put some layers of fat bacon and some sliced carrots and onions in an oblong stewpan, add a bunch of sweet herbs, and put in the slices of tail. Dust in a small quantity of salt, cover them with white wine and broth mixed in equal quantities, and put on the top some slices of fat bacon or some pork rind. When boiling, move the pan to the side of the fire, put some live embers on the lid, and braise the contents for five or six hours, adding more broth to keep up the quantity. When cooked, drain the pieces of tail, and keep them hot. Mix 1 teacupful of gravy with the cooking-stock, boil it up, then strain it through a fine hair sieve; return it to the pan, skim off the fat, and boil it quickly till somewhat reduced. Have ready a chestnut puree in the centre of a hot dish, arrange the pieces of tail in a circle, pour the gravy round them, and serve. Broiled Ox-Tails.—(1) Wash the tails thoroughly and cut the thick parts into joints; put them in a stewpan with a bunch of sweet herbs, a small quantity of salt and cayenne pepper, and cover with common stock. When the liquor | Ox-Tails—continued. comes to the boil, move the stewpan to the edge of the fire, and keep it simmering gently for two-hours-and-a-half. Afterwards take them out and drain them well on a sieve, brash them over with a paste-brush dipped hi beaten yolk of egg, and cover thickly with finely-grated breadcrumbs. Fig. 81. Broiled Ox-Tails. Put them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear brisk fire, turning them constantly. When ready, lay them on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley (see Fig. 81), and serve with a sauceboatful of tartar sauce. (2) Take some sections of Ox-tails that have been stewed, dust them over with salt and pepper, dip them into warmed butter and then into breadcrumbs, then butter again, and lastly breadcrumbs. Put them on a gridiron over a clear fire and broil until browned. Place them on a dish, pour over some piquant or Italian sauce, and serve. They may also be dished up on a puree of green peas, or on some boiled red cabbage. Curried Ox-Tail.—Separate an Ox-tail at the joints and put it into a saucepan with 3 pints of vrater, a thin slice of bacon or ham, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Place the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for four hours ; take out the pieces of tail, and pass the liquor through a sieve into a basin. Put an onion and a couple of sour apples, both cut in pieces, into a saucepan with loz. of butter, and fry them until quite brown, stirring continually. Mix in 1 table-spoonful of curry powder, 1 teaspoonful of flour, salt and pepper to taste, and 1 pint of the liquor that the tail was cooked in; remove the pan to the side of the fire, stir frequently, and cook for twenty minutes longer. Lay in the pieces of tail, warm them up, remove the pan from the fire, squeeze over a little lemon-juice, turn the curry out on to a dish, and serve very hot. Pried Ox-Tail.—(1) Disjoint an Ox-tail, cut it into pieces 2in. long, and blanch for twenty minutes; then egg-aml- breadcrumb them, then fry hr hot fat to a light brown colour, and serve with tomato sauce. (2) Dip some sections of stewed Ox-tail into breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light brown. Arrange them on a dish, pour over a little tomato sauce, and serve. This is an easy method of warm- ing up pieces of tail that have been left over from a pre- vious dish. (3) Put three Ox-tails cut into pieces 4in. in length into a saucepan with lqt. of stock and a bunch of sweet herbs, place the pan at the side of the fire, and simmer gently for three hours or so until tender. Take them out, let them get quite cold, then dip into well-beaten egg and next into breadcrumbs, plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, and fry to a light brown. Pour a little tartar sauce over a dish, put the pieces of tails on it, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Haricot of Ox-Tails.—Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of butter into a saucepan, and when it has melted add three Ox-tails divided into natural sections and two onions chopped small; cook until the onions are light brown. Put in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, and stir for two minutes longer; pour in 3 pints of water, and when it boils skim carefully, removing the pan to the side of the fire. Let it simmer for an hour, and add two carrots and two turnips cut into rather large pieces; when they have been cooking for an hour, add some potatoes cut into slices or squares, and salt and pepper to taste. They will require twenty minutes, cooking, and by that time all the ingredients should be thoroughly done. Take out the vegetables, pile them in the