TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 11 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Ac., referred to, see under their special heads. Nouilles, or Nudels—continued. Dampf-Nudels.—These are made of Nridel paste to which yeast has been added, so that in the cooking they swell up, and are of much lighter consistence. Dampf-Nudels (Polish Style).—Put 1 ill*, of Damjf Nudel paste into a basin, and set in a warm place to rise. Then turn out on to a floured hoard, and work it well with the hands for a few minutes; let it get quite cold, roll out very thin, and with a small tin cutter cut it into rounds. Have ready some apple marmalade reduced and mixed with rum, put a little of this on each of the rounds, fold over the paste, and turn them upside down on a buttered baking-sheet. Let them remain for forty-five minutes to rise, then brush over with warmed butter ; put them with the baking-sheet into a moderate oven and bake until done. | Pull out the baking-sheet, dredge a little caster sugar over the Dampf-Nudels, glaze slightly, put on a napkin over a dish, in a pyramid or heap, and serve. Dampf-Nudel Cake (Munich Fashion). — Sift lib. of flour, keep it in a warm place for a time, and make a bay in the centre. Mix loz. of German yeast with 1 teacup- ful of warm milk, pour it in the bay, mix about a quarter of the flour with it, cover, and let it rise in a warm temperature. When double its original size, knead all the flour together with Jib. of melted butter, the yolks of five eggs, and sufficient tepid milk to form a soft paste. After this has been well worked, sift in Jib. of caster sugar and 1 teaspoonful of chopped citron-peel, and set it to rise again. Sift flour on a table, roll out the paste, let it remain for two or three minutes, and then divide it in rounds with a tin cutter about 1 Jin. in diameter. Flour a cloth, lay the rounds on it, cover them with paper, and leave them for a few minutes; then brush each one with c ay fish butter, and arrange them in circles in a plain cylinder-mould. When the circles reach to three-quarters the height of the mould, let the paste rise till it reaches Fig. 12. Dampf-Nudel Cake. the brim ; wrap the mould round with strips oi buttered paper, and bake for forty minutes in a moderate oven. When done, turn it out on to a dish (see Fig. 12), and serve with vanilla-flavoured cream in a separate dish. Dampf-Nudels with. Cream.—Put 31b. of sifted flour into a basin, and place it in the oven to warm. Take it out, and make into a very stiff paste by adding Joz. of German yeast dissolved hi warm milk; cover the basin, and put it into a warm place. 11'lien the dough has risen to double its original size, work it well with the hand, and mix in Jib. of warm butter, 4 table-spoonfuls of sifted crashed loaf sugar, a very small quantity of salt, and, gradually, the yolks of four or five eggs. Should the paste be too light or thin, add a little more flour, or if too thick a little more yolk of egg. Set it again to rise, then turn it out on to a table or board. When it is quite cool, flatten it and cut into strips about the thickness of a finger; cut these again transversely, having the pieces of such dimensions that when rolled up they will be the size of filberts. Roll them up, put them at the bottom of a well-buttered flat Nouilles, or Nudels—continued. saucepan—close together, but without allowing them to touch—and let them remain for an hour to rise. When well risen, brush the Nudels over with l teacupful of sweet milk flavoured with vanilla, pour in sufficient warm milk to slightly cover them, put the lid on the saucepan, place it in a quick oven, and bake for about twelve minutes, by which time all the liquor should have evaporated. On no account must the lid of the pan be taken oft while they are cooking. Remove the Dampf-Nudels, which should be quite dry and of a delicate yellow colour, by placing the blade of a knife under them ; put them on a dish in the form of a pyramid, and serve with a little cream poured over them, and some more in a sauceboat. NOURMAHAL CAKE. -See Cakes. NOYAU or, NOYEAU.—The meaning of this word is the stone of a fruit. Some very famous liqueurs have been made from the kernels of various fruit-stones, to which the name has been extended, and in spite of the fact that these kernels are reputed to contain large quantities of prussic acid, Noyau continues to he a prime favourite, especially in France. It can be prepared from any of the following receipts, and adapted to various purposes as shown hereunder. (1) This cordial requires to be very sweet, and is made by dissolving Joz. of oil of cinnamon, Joz. of oil of orange, and loz. of oil of bitter almonds, in 2galls. of pure spirit, adding lgall. of syrup. When thoroughly mixed it is ready for use. (2) Pour Jgall. of brandy over the young sprouts of the peach-tree, and let them remain for three days in order to extract the flavour of the leaves. Strain off the liquor, and add Jgall. of clarified sugar and 4oz. of almonds, blanched and chopped up small. Let the whole remain for about six weeks, then pass through a strainer, pour into bottles, cork, and it is ready for use. (3) Put 1 pint of syrup into a basin, pour in 1 pint of the best brandy, and add a little extract of almonds and a little less of extract of lemon. Pour it into a bottle, shake well, and it is then ready for use. The syrup and almond extract must be very clear, otherwise, after the liqueur is made, it will have to be filtered. (4) Put lib. of caster sugar into a basin with 4oz. each of sweet and bitter almonds, blanched and chopped fine, and pour over these lqt. of strong gin. Put the basin in a warm place, stirring at intervals for about two weeks. Pass it through a very fine sieve or filter through paper, pour into bottles, cork, and put it by ready for use. (5) Blanch and pound 3oz. each of sweet and bitter almonds, and put them into a bottle with the thin rind of two lemons ; pour over lqt. of gin and leave for three days in a moderately warm place, giving the bottle a shake every three or four hours. Dissolve 14oz. of sugar in 1 breakfast- cupful of boiling water, add it to the other ingredients, and leave it for twenty-four hours longer, giving the bottle an occasional shake. Strain the liquor, then filter it, bottle in small bottles, and in six months’ time it will be fit for use, but it is improved by keeping. (6) Blanch lib. of bitter almonds and pound them until smooth; put them in a large earthenware jar with lib. of loaf sugar, Joz. of mace, and a small grated nutmeg or half a large one. Pour over these ingredients lgall. of brandy, and leave them for a fortnight, stirring well every day. At the end of that time cover the jar, and leave the con- tents untouched for six weeks. Afterwards bottle it and leave for some months longer before using. (7) Take 31b. of powdered white sugar, lib. of bitter almonds, and Jib. of sweet almonds; blanch the almonds and pound them to a paste with some of the sugar. Put this paste and the rest of the sugar into lgall. of gin, and let it stand for ten days, then filter it through paper, bottle, and cork well. (8) Blanch 4oz. of sweet almonds, put them into a mortar, and pound to a paste with 1 dessert-spoonful of rose-water ; put this paste into a jar, together with lib. of loaf sugar and J pint of the best brandy, cover the jar well, and let it stand for two days, shaking frequently, then add the grated peel of half a lemon, the strained juice of a lemon,