35 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. Oranges—continued. saffron, and lgall. of pale brandy, and let the whole re- main for three days, stirring it occasionally. At the end of that time, strain the liquor, pour it into bottles, anti cork them tightly. Keep the brandy for a year in a cool cellar before it is used. (3) Peel otf thinly the rinds of six Seville Oranges and strain the juice of twelve. Put the peel and juice into a large open vessel, with 21b. of caster sugar and 3qts. of pale brandy. Turn lqt. of skimmed milk into a saucepan, place it over the lire until boiling hot, then pour it in with the brandy and mix well. Stir the brandy occasion- ally every day for eight days, then strain it through a flannel hag until quite clear. Pour the brandy into pint bottles and cork them tightly. Orange Butter.—Boil twelve rggs until hard, peel them, cut them into halves, and put their yolks in a mortar with 2oz. of caster sugar, Jib. of butter, and 2oz. of blanched and chopped sweet almonds. Pound the whole to a smooth paste, moistening it occasionally with Orange-flower water, then rub it through a sieve on to a glass dish. Serve the butter with any kind of sweet or fancy biscuits. Orange Cake.—(1) Large,—Sift fib. of flour on a paste- board, cut Jib. of butter into small pieces, lay them on the flour, and work them in; add fib. each of sugar and blanched and pounded almonds, the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs that have been rubbed through a fine sieve, three well-beaten eggs, and suttieient milk to form a smooth paste. Knead the paste until all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed, then roll it out as thinly as possible without breaking. Cut it to a round shape, lay it on a sheet of buttered paper on a baking slab, roll the trimmings of the paste out into a long strip, cut it lengthwise into three, and plait them. Moisten round the edges of the cake with a paste-brush dipped in milk, and lay the plait round. Bake the paste until lightly browned in a moderate oven. Beat the yolks of three eggs together with the grated peel and strained juice of three Oranges, fib. of caster sugar, and loz. of butter broken into small pieces. Turn the mixture into a lined stewpan and whisk it over a slow tire until it thickens, but on no account let it boil or the eggs will curdle; then move it away from the fire and let it cool. Whisk the whites of the eggs to a still' snow and stir them light.y in with the yolks. When the crust is Fig. 48. Orange Cake. nearly cold, spread the mixture over it, garnish in a circle until quarters of Oranges from which all the white pith has been removed, pile a few table spoonfuls of well-whipped cream in the centre (see Fig. 48), and serve. (2) Grate the rinds off two Oranges and strain their juice. Put 1 pint of flour in a basin, and mix with it lib. of moist sugar, half of the grated Orange-peel, 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar, 4 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda, and 1 saltspoonful of salt. Beat the yolks of four and the whites of two eggs in half the Orange-juice, and stir them in with the dry ingredients, adding sufficient cold water to mix the whole of the proper consistency. Butter some jelly-cake pans, fill them with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Whisk the two remaining whites of eggs together with 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of caster sugar and the rest of the Orange-juice and rind; when the cakes are cooked, turn them out of the tins, spread each cake over with a layer of the beaten whites, and put them one on top of another. When cold, mask the top of the last cake with Orange icing, and place it in a cool oven for a minute or Oranges—continued. two for the icing to dry on it. Spread a lace-edged dish- paper over a round dish, place the cake on it, and serve when ready. The top looks very pretty if ornamented in some fancy design with shred angelica and crystallised fruits. (3) Place the thinly-cut rind of an Orange in a basin with the juice of two lemons, and let them soak for an hour or so. Put Jib. of butter and lib. of sugar into a basin and work them to a cream, add gradually the yolks of five eggs, and beat well for ten minutes. Strain in the lemon-juice, mix in lib. of flour, and add a little less than 1 table-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda dissolved in 1 table- spoonful of boiling water. When thoroughly mixed, pour it into a flat-cake pan, and bake in a moderate oven. Turn it out when done, and when cold it is ready for use. (4) Beat eight eggs in a basin, and when they are very light mix in 1 (,1b. of sugar and Jib. of butter worked to a cream, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of milk; dissolve 1 tea- spoonful of bicarbonate of soda and 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar in another breakfast-cupful of milk, and pour it in also. Sprinkle in Hlb. of flour, mix thoroughly, pour it into jelly-cake pans, and bake. In the meantime put the juice and gr ited peels of twelve Oranges into a basin, mix in 21b. of caster sugar, and if the Oranges are' very sweet add the juice of one or two lemons. Stir to a smooth paste, and when the cake is done divide it into slices, spread them over with the Orange mixture, put them back in their original positions, cover the top with the mixture, sprinkle caster sugar over, and serve. (5) Small.—Beat ilb. of sugar and 4oz. of butter to a cream, add the yolks of seven eggs, whip these well in, lint in the grated rind and juice of an Orange, and lastly 41b. of sifted flour mixed with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking- powder. Work it until quite light, pour it into buttered flat pans, and bake in a moderate oven. Take them out and use when cold. They may be iced with Orange-flavoured icing. Orange Caramels. -Peel the Oranges carefully, removing all the white part of the rind; separate them into sections without breaking the skin, and lay them in confectioners’ sugar for a short time. Make a syrup of loaf sugar and very little water, boil it till when a little of it tried in cold water is brittle, then dip the pieces of Orange separately and quickly into it and lay them on a well-oiled wire tray to dry. They should be very carefully removed from the trays when dry, as the caramel is easily broken. Orange-Caramel Rock.-Put lib. of loaf sugar into a basin, ponr over it 1 breakfast-cupful of water, and add 1 tea cupful of filtered Orange-juice, 1 liqueur-glassful of kirschen- wasser, and 1 teaspoonful of acetic acid. Pour it all into a sugar-boiler, boil to the crack (see SUGAR-BOILING), and mix in Jib. of candied Orange-peel cut up into very small pieces. Turn it out into a deep well-oiled pan, mark it into diamond shapes, and when quite cold and set it is ready for use. Orange Charlotte.—Line a charlotte-mould with sections of Oranges. Put Joz. of gelatine into a basin with a little less than 1 teacupful of water, let it soak until soft, then pour over about the same quantity of boiling water, and add Jib. of sugar and the juice of a lemon. Pass it through a sieve into another basin, and add the pulp and juice of sufficient Oranges to make \ pint of it; add a little of the grated rind of an Orange, and pack the basin in ice to cool. Beat the whites of three eggs to a stiff froth, and when the Orange mixture begins to thicken add them, and beat until it is thick enough to drop from the whisk. Pour it into the mould, pack it in ice, and when set and firm turn it out on to a glass dish; garnish round with crystallised Orange flowers (see Fig. 49), and serve. Orange Cheese Cakes.—(1) Peel two Oranges as thinly as possible, put the rinds in a saucepan with plenty of water, and boil them until tender. Drain the peels, put them in a mortar with 4oz. each of loaf sugar and butter, and pound well. Beat the yolks of six or seven eggs in 1 table- spoonful each of brandy and sherry, then mix them in gra- dually with the pounded ingredients. Butter some patty- For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. D