87 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Pancakes—continued. flour as will make it into a very thick batter, and let it stand for half-an-hour to rise; then roll it out rather thin and cut it into oblong pieces. Spread jam or marmalade on these, double them, and leave again to rise; then fry them in boiling lard or butter, (15) Russian.—Mix loz. of liquid yeast with lib. of flour, stir in sufficient milk to make a stiff dough, and stand it by the fire to rise. Beat 3 table-spoonfuls of warmed butter with four eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, and a little grated lemon-peel; when well mixed, pour it into the dough, and heat it again until it will separate from the bowl. Divide this preparation into equal quantities, roll them into balls, and fill each with marmalade or apricot jam. Put a sheet of floured paper on a baking-sheet, put the balls on it, and leave them to rise in a warm tempera- ture. Plunge the balls into boiling lard and fry them till nicely browned. Dust the tops with caster sugar (see Fig. 101), pile on a dish, and serve hot or cold. Pancakes with Apricot Jam.—Put Jib. of flour into a basin with 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar and 1 pinch of salt, break in five eggs, and mix all well together. Melt Jib. of butter and stir it in with the other ingredients, also 1J pints of milk. Cut a piece of crumb of bread round Jin. thick and 4J in. in diameter, sift caster sugar over, and glaze it in the oven. Three frying-pans should be used when making a large quantity of Pancakes, so that they may be done quicker. Stand the pans on the fire with a small piece of butter in them, and when it is melted put in each 2 table-spoonfuls of the mixture. When one side of the Pancake is browned, turn it on the glazed piece of bread, coat the top with apricot jam, put another one over this, and so on, till all are done. Do not coat the top one with jam, but sprinkle with caster sugar, glaze it under a salamander, and serve. Pancakes made with. Macaroons.—Put 2oz. of bitter macaroons and loz. of dried orange-flowers into a mortar, and with the pestle break and grind them to powder. Turn this into a large bowl, add to it Jib. of finely-powdered white sugar and 2oz. of dried and sifted flour, and mix all well together; then stir into them the beaten yolks of ten eggs, throw in 1 saltspoonful of salt, and add lqt. of cream. Make a frying-pan hot over the fire, put a lump of butter into it, and when that is quite hot fry as much of the batter as will cover the bottom of the pan; when slightly browned on one side, turn it carefully and brown the other. Lay it on a hot tin plate, spread over a thin layer of apricot marmalade, and on that sprinkle crushed macaroons. Roll the Pancake up rather tight, and proceed with the next one, which should, with some more butter, have been put in the frying-pan over the fire as soon as the first one was taken out. When all the Pancakes are done, cut them about 3in. long, glaze them, and serve hot; or they may be served quite plain. Pancakes with Potato Salad.—Slice some cold boiled potatoes, and mix them with two or three mineed onions, a moderate quantity of finely-minced parsley, a few slices of pickled beetroot, and salt and pepper to taste; moisten the mixture with 3 table-spoonfuls of the best salad-oil and plenty of vinegar that has been diluted with water. Beat six eggs well, mix them smoothly with 1 table- spoonful of flour and 1 teacupful of milk, and season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Put a large piece of butter into a frying-pan; when it boils, pour in some of the batter and fry it until lightly browned on both sides. Fry the remainder of the batter in the same I Pancakes—continued. way, and when all the Pancakes are cooked, drain, pile them on a hot dish, and serve with the potato salad. Pancake Pudding.—Make about a dozen small thin Pan- cakes and fry lightly; mask half of them with currant jam and the remainder with apricot jam, and roll up. Place them all round a pudding mould, cutting off pieces to make them fit. Prepare a rich custard, pour it carefully into the mould, strew in the trimmings of the Pancakes, and cover with a small thin Pancake. Put the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three parts its height, and steam for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding carefully out of the mould on to a dish, and serve. Pancakes with Sherry.—Put six eggs into a basin and beat them well, then mix in 1 pint of cream, 2 wine- glassfuls of sherry, Jib. of sugar, and sufficient flour to make a moderately thick batter. It should not be quite so thick as the ordinary Pancake batter. Beat the mixture well to make it quite smooth. Make a very clean frying- pan rather hot, then pour in a thin layer of the batter, and place it over the fire until set. Proceed in this manner with the rest of the batter, rolling the Pancakes up as they are taken from the pan. Put them on a hot dish, over which has been spread a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper, sift caster sugar over them, and serve while very hot. Pancake Soup.—Prepare a thin creamy batter with 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, 1 teaspoonful of salt, two eggs, and a small quantity of milk. Melt a small piece of fat (either suet, lard, or butter) in a frying-pan, pour in sufficient batter to thinly cover the bottom of the pan, and place it over the fire until the Pancake is lightly browned on one side; then turn it quickly over to the other. When all the Pancakes are fried, cut them with small tin cutters into any fancy shapes. Put a saucepan with 3 pints of clear soup over the fire, and when the soup boils put in the Pancakes, and boil them for two or three minutes; then turn the soup into a soup-tureen, and serve while very hot. Pancake Strudels.—Prepare a Pancake batter with four eggs, 4 table-spoonfuls of flour, 2oz. of warmed butter, loz. of sugar, and J pint of warmed milk. Put a lump of butter into a frying-pan, melt it, then pour in a thin layer of the batter. Fiy until browned on one side, then turn it over and brown the other. Continue in this way until all the Pancakes are cooked, putting more butter into the pan when required. Beat the yolks of four eggs -and mix them with J pint of sour cream, then put in 2 table-spoonfuls of well-washed currants, the same quantity of sultanas, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Spread the mixture over the Pancakes, roll up lightly, lay them in a buttered dish, moisten with a few table- spoonfuls of sweetened milk, and put a small piece of butter on each. Place the dish in the oven until the Pancakes are lightly browned, and serve while very hot. Pancakes Stuffed with Veal Forcemeat.—Make a Pan- cake batter, using in proportion four eggs, 2oz. of flour, 2oz. of warmed butter, loz. of sugar, and J pint of warmed milk, and mix the batter until smooth. Melt a small lump of butter in a frying-pan, and pour in a small quantity of the batter, letting it spread in a thin layer over the pan. When the batter browns on one side, turn it over and brown the other. Spread a thin layer of veal forcemeat over each Pancake, roll them up, and cut Fig. 102. Pancakes Stuffed with Veal Forcemeat. them through into strips; dip these in batter, and fry them slowly in butter. Drain the Pancakes, arrange them on an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, garnish with parsley (see Fig. 102), and serve.