THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 58 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox- M arrow—continued. dish is nearly filled. Mix four well-beaten eggs with 4oz. of sugar, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and lqt. of cream; pour this mixture over the pudding, allowing it time to soak, put the pudding in the oven, and hake for half-an-hour. (3) Remove all the fibre from 6oz. of Ox-marrow, chop it up, hut not too finely, and add to it Jib. each of crushed macaroons and finely-sifted breadcrumbs, loz. or 2oz. of blanched and pounded sweet almonds, and a seasoning of candied citron, caster sugar, and grated nutmeg. Put all these into a bowl, and stir in 2 breakfast-cupfuls of rich cream, the beaten yolks of six eggs, and 1 wineglass- ful of ratafia. Turn the preparation into a mould or shape, put it hi the oven, and bake until browned. Serve hot. (4) Pour 1J ]lints of boiling milk over 1 breakfast-cupful of breadcrumbs, and let them soak for half-an-hour. Cut 6oz. of marrow into fine shreds, mix them with the bread- crumbs, and add Jib. of well-washed and dried currants, sugar to taste, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and four well-beaten eggs. Butter a pie-dish, line it with puff paste, and turn the mixture into it; hake it a little under an hour. When cooked, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve the pudding. If preferred, the pudding may be turned into a buttered mould and boiled for two-hours-and a-half. If cooked the latter way, caster sugar should lie sifted over it when turned out of the mould. (5) Boil 1 pint of new milk with a piece of stick cinna mon and the peel of half a lemon until flavoured with these ingredients. Chop Jib. of Ox-marrow, put it in a basin, and strain the boiling milk over. Next mix in Jib. of well-washed and picked currants, 2oz. of thinly-shred candied orange and lemon-peel, 1 table spoonful of brandy, 4 table-spoonful of syrup of cloves, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and Jib. of crushed Naples biscuits. Stir the ingredients until thoroughly incorporated, and when cold mix in the beaten yolks of four eggs and the whites of two. Butter a small pie-dish, line the edges with puff paste, pour in the mixture, and bake it. Serve the pudding either hot or cold. (6) Beat up the yolks of eight eggs and the whites of four, and mix with them 4 pint of milk and 1 pint of cream boiled together with a blade of mace and half a nutmeg grated. Mix the boiled milk and cream with the eggs by degrees, sweeten well, strain it through a sieve, and then add to it 1 table-spoonful of orange-flower water. Put two Naples biscuits crushed to powder at the bottom of a pudding-dish together with the marrow of a large bone, Jib. of stoned raisins, Jib. of currants washed and dried, and loz. of citron cut in slices; pour the strained custard | over, put it in the oven, and bake. (7) Boiled.—Pour lqt. of boiling milk over 1J breakfast- cupfuls of finely-grated breadcrumbs, cover, and leave them until well soaked. Finely shred Jib. of marrow, stone and chop 3oz. of raisins, and wash 3oz. of currants. Mix these | ingredients with the soaked crumbs, and stir in six well- j beaten eggs; sweeten to taste with caster sugar and | flavour with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Butter j a pudding-basin, fill it with the above mixture, tie a floured ' cloth over it, and boil for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding on to a hot dish, dust over with caster sugar, and serve. (8) Cut lib. of Ox-marrow into thin pieces and put it into a basin with the finely-grated crumbs of a stale penny roll, 3 heap ;d table-spoonfuls of caster sugar, 1 pint of boiling cream, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and leave them to soak for ten or fifteen minutes. Beat four eggs until very light, then pour them over the above ingredients, also 1 wineglassful of pale brandy, and stir until well mixed. Butter the interior of a mould, pour in the mixture, tie a thick pudding-cloth over the top, plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three- quarters-of-an-hour. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the mould on to a hot dish, and serve. Ox-Marrow Quenelles.—(1) Put Jib. of marrow into a basin with its equal quantity of breadcrumbs, add 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper to taste, and work it into a smooth paste with the yolks of six eggs and the white of one. Take it out a little at a time, poach in Ox-Marrow—continued. boiling salted water, drain them, trim them round, and serve very hot. (2) Coarsely chop Jib. of marrow, and mix with it the well-beaten yolks of six eggs. Cut a French roll into thin slices, toast them a light brown, and cut them into small squares. Put the crumb of another roll hi sufficient milk to moisten it, then mix 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped parsley and a small quantity of salt with it. Mix all the ingredients together, and dredge in sufficient flour to bring it to a consistency. Cut the mixture into small quantities, roll them to the shape of an egg, throw them into a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil for ten minutes. Serve them in a tureen with soup. (3) Soak a slice or two of crumb of bread in a small quantity of milk ; chop 4oz. of marrow, then mix it with the bread; season with salt and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, stir in two well-beaten eggs ami sufficient flour to make it thick. Work the mixture well, then divide it into small pieces about the size of a walnut, and roll them round. Put a lump of butter in a deep frying-pan, melt it, then put in the balls, and fry them until browned all over. Drain, arrange them on a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper on a hot dish, and serve. Or they may be served as a garnish with ragouts or hashes. Ox-Marrow Rissoles.—Put a large piece of Ox-marrow into cold water to soak, then put it into a saucepan with broth, boil it for about ten minutes, and let it get quite cold in the liquor. Cut the marrow into pieces about the size of an olive, and dip them twice into well-reduced brown sauce finished with glaze; put them on .a baking-sheet, and let the sauce cool. Have ready some puff paste at seven turns, roll it out in a long, rectangular thin strip, put small quantities of the marrow on it about 1 in. from the edge, damp the paste round the marrow, fold the paste over so as to cover it, and cut out the rissoles with a channelled paste-cutter. Dip them in beaten egg, sprinkle them over with crushed vermicelli, and fry in a little fat over a slow fire until done. Take them out, drain, arrange them hi a group on a napkin on a dish, and serve. Ox-Marrow-and-Sponge-Cake Pudding. Take Jib. of stale sponge cake and crumble it very fine. Chop 2oz. of Ox- marow very fine, and mix it with the cake-crumbs. Beat up four eggs very light with Jib. of caster sugar, mix with them gradually J pint of milk, pour this mixture over the cake-crumbs and chopped marrow, and mix well together; then beat in 1 table-spoonful of flour with a very little salt mixed in it, and Jib. of layer raisins, stoned, chopped, plentifully dredged with flour, and mixed with 4oz. of citron chopped very fine. Continue to stir and beat till the fruit is evenly distributed, then pour it into a buttered pudding- tin, and boil for three hours. Serve hot with cabinet- pudding sauce. Ox-Marrow Tart.—Put four eggs into a basin and mix them up with 4oz. of flour and a pinch of salt, and pour in f pint of milk. Whisk well, and pour it through a sieve into a saucepan; add a small lump of butter, stirring frequently over the fire to prevent it getting lumpy. When it is rather thick, add 8oz. of dissolved sugar, a little of this being flavoured with vanilla. Work vigorously for eight or nine minutes longer to complete the mixture, then remove the pan to the side of the fire and add 8oz. of chopped and melted Ox-marrow and 2 table-spoonfuls of milk of almonds. The marrow must be passed through a sieve before being added. Work well for five minutes longer, then let the whole cool. In the meantime prepare a puff paste with a little more than 8oz. each of flour and butter, give it six turns, and lastly roll it into a flat about Jin. in thickness. Cut oft' two strips lengthwise about lin. wide, then roll out the paste in a flat about -Jjin. thick and 1 foot in diameter. Spread this over a tart-pan, trim it round, damp the edges with a paste- brush, and pour in the marrow cream, spreading it over to about Jin. thick, following the outlines of the paste but keeping quite lin. from the edge. Wet the edges of the paste, and put the strips of paste on it, following the out- lines, and join the ends neatly. Put the pan into a hot oven, and when the paste has well risen, glaze it with