THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 967 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Mussels—continued. and remove tlie half shells, beards, &c. Put 2 table-spoon- fuls of chopped shallots and a clove of garlic into a sauce- pan with a little butter, and fry without letting them take colour; put in the Mussels, pour over 1 wineglassful of wine and the Mussel-liquor, place the pan over the fire, boil for a few minutes, thicken with a pfiece of butter kneaded with finely-minced breadcrumb, parsley, and a little cayenne, and toss the pan for a little while longer Fig. 1210. Mussels 1 la Matelote. until all the butter is melted. Put them in a metal dish, pour over the liquor, stand in another dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve very hot. See Fig. 1210. Mussels a la Poulette.—(1) Take some Mussels that have been hustled or plain cooked, remove the half shell that does not contain the fish, take off the beard and weed, remove any young crabs there may be, and put them on a dish either piled up or packed closely together. In the meantime, prepare a little melted butter, made with the Mussel-liquor instead of water and a good quantity of butter, and sprinkle over a little pepper and sufficient vinegar to give it a sharp taste; make this mixture hot, pour it over the Mussels, and serve at once. Nutmeg, mace, or chopped parsley and chives may be added to the sauce if desired to heighten the flavour. (2) Wash and clean the shells of some Mussels, put them in a pan with a little wine, and cook them over a slow fire until they are done, which will lie seen by the shells opening. Take away half of the shells, or all of them if preferred, and put them in a saucepan with a little butter, chopped parsley and chives, and grated nutmeg and black pepper. Toss the pan over a clear fire, mix in a little more butter, and pour in a little of the strained Mussel- liquor and stock ; after it has boiled for a few seconds add the yolks of one or two eggs to thicken the liquor, pour it all out on a dish, and serve hot. (3) Put three dozen large Mussels into a saucepan and steam them for ten minutes. Remove half the shells, put them into a saucepan with some of their liquor, and add lo_z. of butter, a little salt, and pepper; warm them in this, pour in 1 teacupful of hollandaise sauce, stew well for a couple of minutes longer, but without letting the liquor boil, add 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley and the juice of half a lemon, stir gently, arrange the Mussels on a dish, pour over the remainder, and serve. Mussels a la Villeroy.—Wash and thoroughly cleanse some Mussels, changing the water five or six times if necessary, and remove the sinewy strings that are to be found inside. Put them into a saucepan, pour over 1 wineglass- ful of wine, toss them over the fire until the shells open, then turn them into a colander over a pan and let them drain. Pull them out of their shells, and when they are cool dip them into a little villeroy sauce ; arrange on a baking-sheet, and when the sauce has cooled sprinkle them over with breadcrumbs, repeating it to have them thoroughly covered. Plunge them into a frying-pan of boiling fat, fry to a light brown colour, then take them out, drain, put them on a napkin on a dish, and serve with a garnish of fried parsley. Mussel Ketchup.—(1) Open lqt. of Mussels, saving the liquor; put them in a mortar with four Bordeaux anchovies, pound to a smooth paste, season with i table-spoonful each of powdered cloves, ground mace, and cayenne pepper, and h table-spoonful of salt. Pound again to thoroughly in- corporate the seasoning, then put the mixture in a stew- Mussels—continued. pan with their liquor, 1 pint of white wine, and 2 urine- glassfuls of cognac. Place it over a slow fire until boiling, then strain the ketchup through a fine hair sieve. When cold, pour the ketchup into small bottles, cork them tightly, and keep in a store-cupboard for use. The above makes an excellent relish for either boiled or fried fish. (2) Put 1 breakfast-cupful of Mussels beaten to a pulp into a lined saucepan, pour over J pint of sherry wine or very strong old ale, and add Joz. of salt, Joz. of mace, and a small quantity of black pepper ; set the saucepan at the side of the fire, simmer for fully ten minutes, strain the ketchup through a cloth, let it cool, pour it into bottles, add a little brandy to each, cork up, and set them in a cool place until wanted. Mussel Filau.—Wash and open 2qts. of Mussels. Peel and chop three moderate-sized onions, put. them in a saucepan with 1 breakfast-cupful of olive oil, and stir over the fire until nicely browned; then put in the Mussels with 3 table-spoonfuls of tomato sauce, or, if preferred, two tomatoes, cut crosswise into four, pour in pints of water, season with salt, and place the pan over the fire until the contents boil. Wash lib. of the best rice in plenty of water, then put it in the saucepan with the other ingre- dients. Put the lid on, move it to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer until all the moisture is absorbed, then move it right to the back of the stove and leave it for fifteen minutes. Arrange the pilau tastefully on a hot dish,and serve. Mussel Salad.—Wash the Mussels and boil them till the shells open. When cooked, drain them, remove the shells, and put them on a hot dish. Melt ^lb. of butter, season with pepper, salt, lemon-juice, and a small quantity of Worcestershire sauce, and pour it over the Mussels. They should be eaten hot, with some thin slices of brown bread and butter. Mussel Sauce.—(1) Open the required quantity of Mussels, remove the dark spots found in the body parts, wash them well, and stew in Avater for about half-an-hour, seasoning Avith a blade of mace. Strain the liquor, return the Mussels to it, bring it gently to the boil, remove from the fire, thicken Avith a liaison of flour and butter, add a small quantity each of cream and milk, and it is then ready for use. (2) Wash and clean about fifty Mussels, steam (or hustle) them, take them out of their shells, and remove the beards and any Aveeds that may be in them. Put 3oz. of blitter into a saucepan Avith 2oz. of flour, mix them thoroughly, and add the Mussel-liquor, H pints of milk, tAvo eloA'es, six peppercorns, half a blade of mace, 1 tea- spoonful of salt, and half the quantity of cayenne. Put tlie pan over the fire, boil it for ten minutes, stirring continually, and add 1 table-spoonful each of Harvey sauce and essence of anchovies. Pass it through a fine sieve into a saucepan containing the Mussels, make it quite hot, but Avithout boiling, and serve. Mussel Soup.—(1) Clean thoroughly tgall. of Mussels and toss them in a saucepan OArer a clear fire until the shells open. Take out the fish, remove the Aveed, &c., put them into a saucepan Avith loz. each of butter and flour, and add a little chopped parsley and SAveet herbs. Put the pan on the fire, pour in 3 pints of rich gravy, boil up, remove the pan to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer until the liquor is reduced to half its original quantity. Pour it out on to a dish, garnish Avith pieces of fried bread, and serve very hot. (2) Put some fish or veal stock (see Stock) into a sauce- pan, pour in its equal bulk of Mussel-liquor, and make it hot. In the meantime prepare a roux by rolling butter and flour together in equal proportions and warming them in a saucepan over the fire for three minutes; add the stock, &c., to this, mix thoroughly, put the pan back again on the fire, and Ai’hen it boils remove it to the side and simmer gently for thirty minutes or so. Pour it into a tureen over some Mussels, Avork in a liaison of lemon- juice and yolk of egg, and serve at once. (3) Open and clean sufficient Mussels to fill a quart measure, steiv them, put them into a mortar Avith the