190 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, ice., referred to, see under their special heads. Fike—continued. stuffing, pass the spit through the mouth and tail, and fix it in front of a clear but not too brisk fire. Baste it continually with claret and butter, with a small quantity of anchovy paste mixed with it. When cooked, lay the fish on the dish on which it is to be served, and cut the thread that it is trussed with, when the sauce inside will run out. Mix a small piece more butter with the drippings in the pan and the strained juice of four oranges, boil it up, stirring well, and pour it over the fish. Serve without delay. Roasted Stuffed Fike.—The Pike should be kept for two days after it has been caught. Scale, draw, and lard it with fillets of anchovies and gherkins. Prepare a stuffing for the fish in the following way: Put a well- cooked omelet in a mortar ivith the yolks of three hard- boiled eggs, some bread panada, and a lump of butter; pound them all well together, stir in sufficient well- whipped whites and yolks of eggs to make it the proper consistency, and stuff the Pike with it. Spread some sprigs of sweet herbs on a sheet of buttered paper, sprinkle some mixed spice and salt over them, and wrap the Pike up in it; fasten it together with skewers, and roast in front of a clear fire, basting occasionally with white wine and warmed butter. When cooked, unwrap the Pike, put it on a hot dish, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of thick piquante sauce. Soused Fike.—Do not scale the fish, but draw it, save its liver, and thoroughly wash it. Put a sufficient quantity of water in a fish-kettle to just cover the fish, with a quarter the quantity of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, and spices to taste. When the liquor boils, add a dash of vinegar, put in the fish, and boil it. When cooked, take the fish out of the kettle and lay it in a pie-dish; mix with the liquor in moderate quantities some bruised ginger and white pepper, boil it up again, then move it from the fire. When cold, pour the liquor over the fish, and leave it in a cold larder for three or four days. Serve the fish with chopped fennel and vinegar. Stewed Fike.—(1) The famous Soyer is accredited with the following receipt, given under a rather more elaborate title: Scale and clean a Pike, and truss it with its tail in its mouth. Put it in a stewpan with two onions, two turnips, one carrot, one head of celery, and one leek, all chopped; add a bunch of parsley and thyme and three or four bay- leaves. Pour in 3 pints of broth, put the lid on the stew- pan, with some live embers on the top, and let the con- tents stew gently by the side of the fire till the fish is cooked, which can be easily ascertained by running a knife close into the backbone; if done the meat will detach easily. Drain the Pike and dry it with a cloth, brush it over with beaten egg, and dredge plenty of bread- crumb over. Place the fisli in the oven and brown it nicely. Put 2J breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce in a stewpan with 2 breakfast-cupfuls of milk, boil it for five minutes, then add the whites of four hard-boiled eggs, four gherkins, and two truffles, all cut into small squares. When ready, stir in with these ingredients 2 table-spoon- fuls of essence of anchovy, the strained juice of half a lemon, and 4oz. of butter. Stir it over the fire till the butter has dissolved. Put the fish on a hot dish without a napkin, pour the sauce over, and serve. (2) Clean a Pike, cut it across in slices, flour and season them with pepper and salt, put them in a frying-pan, and fry lightly in oil. Fry a chopped onion with a little oil in a stewpan, then add a bunch of mint and 1 pint of light tomato sauce. Boil it, put in the pieces of fish, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, and let the con- tents simmer for twenty minutes. Take the bunch of mint out, put the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. (3) Polish.—Skin and clean the Pike and cut it into thick pieces. Blanch in salted water three or four carrots, a stick or two of celery, and some parsley roots, then mince them. Fry a finely-chopped onion with butter in a stewpan, and when nicely browned put in the pieces of fish; season with salt and pepper, and fry them for ten minutes. Cover the fish with white wine, and when boil- Pike—continued. ing put in the minced vegetables, and let it continue boiling till the sauce is reduced to half its original quantity. Thicken the sauce with kneaded butter, mix with it two handfuls of minced nouilles that have been boiled in salted water, and let it boil five minutes longer. Take the pieces of fish out with a skimmer, put them on a hot dish, without the head; put a piece of butter and a little chopped parsley in the sauce, pour it over the fish, and serve. Stewed Fike with Agro-Dolce Sauce.—Clean a Pike, cut it up into pieces, and soak them in a basin of salted water for one hour. Rinse the pieces of Pike in clean water, dry them on a cloth, dredge flour over them, and put them side by side in a buttered stewpan; put in with them a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of red- currant jelly, 1 teacupful of stoned raisins, five or six peeled and chopped almonds, 1 pinch of pepper, and vinegar to three-parts the height of the fish. When boiling, move the stewpan to the side of the fire, close the lid tightly, put some hot cinders on, and let the contents simmer for one hour. When cooked, put the fish on a hot dish; strain the liquor to make a sauce, colour it with a few drops of caramel, and pour it over the fish. Put at each end a bunch of scraped horseradish, and serve. Stewed Pike with Butter Sauce.—Draw and clean a Pike, cut off the fins, nib it well with salt, and baste with a little lemon-juice. Put the fish in a stewpan witli an onion, a bunch of parsley, and a bay-leaf tied together, and a few peppercorns. Moisten to height with three parts stock that has been freed of all fat, two parts wine, and one part vinegar, season to taste with salt, and boil it gently until tender. When the fish is cooked, strain off a sufficient quantity of its cooking-liquor into a small stewpan to make the sauce, put in with it 4oz. of butter in small pieces, 4 teacupful of milk, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg, and boil it up. Beat the yolks of three eggs with 3 table-spoonfuls of cream, and strain them. Move the sauce to the side of the fire and stir in the beaten eggs. Lay the fish on a hot dish, pour the sauce over, and serve. Stewed Fike for Lent (German Style).—Thoroughly clean and scale a Pike, and let it steep in salted water for an hour or two. Rub a stewpan over with a clove of garlic, and put in it a good-sized lump of butter, two or three slices of lemon, 1 table-spoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and a few cloves. Toss the whole over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in J pint of water, 1 wineglassful of red wine, and 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Cut the fish into convenient-sized pieces, put them in with the above ingredients, place the lid on the stewpan, and keep the contents boiling gently for about lialf-an-hour. When cooked, lay the fish on a hot dish, and mix with the sauce the yolks of three eggs that have been beaten with 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, also some finely-grated breadcrumbs. Stir it over the fire until thickened and boiling, then put in a lump of butter, pour it over the fish, and serve quickly. PIKELETS.—The origin of this word is doubtful. It does not seem to have any particular signification, but to be a provincial name for thin muffins or cakes pre- pared as follows: Mix in a basin Jib. of sifted flour with 1 large table- spoonful of bran, 1 saltspoonful of sugar, and J saltspoon- ful of salt; add just sufficient warm milk to form the whole into a stiff dough, cover the basin with a cloth, and leave it in a warm temperature. On the following morn- ing knead the dough again, mixing with it a little more flour if it is not stiff enough, and mould it into small round cakes. Butter some baking-sheets, arrange the cakes on them, leaving a space between each, and bake them in a quick oven. When cooked through and lightly browned, split the Pikelets open and butter them. Arrange them on a napkin on a hot dish, and serve. PILAU.—This is a strictly Oriental dish, not suffi- ciently esteemed by Europeans. It is sometimes called