131 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COO KELT. K Pea-nuts—continued. in India for tlie sake of its oil, which has many peculiar merits. The pods containing the seeds (see Tig. 180) are usually found either on or under the ground. The external husk, something of a lobster shape, with a waist or central depression, contains from two to four red coloured seeds about the size of field peas, having also much the same flavour. In Africa the negroes make a food from it called munduli, which they eat with much relish. The Pea-nut which is also known as Monkey-nut, Earth-nut, Ground-nut, and Goober, is not much used in cookery in this country, nevertheless it admits of some useful forms of preparation. Pea-nut Candy.—(1) Dissolve 21b. of sugar and 1 salt- spoonful of cream of tartar in J pint of cold water, then set it over a moderate fire and cook till brittle, adding and stirring in about Joz. of butter. Shell some Pea nuts, and rub off as much of the inner skin as possible. Put a layer of them, two deep, at the bottom of some well- buttered tins, and when the candy is ready, pour it over them, and leave till cold. Then cut it or break it into pieces of a convenient size. (2) Shell lqt. of Pea-nuts (measured in their shells). Put Jib. of molasses in a saucepan over the fire, boil it, stirring constantly till a little dropped from the spoon hardens in cold water. Then stir in 1 table-spoonful of extract of vanilla, 1 saltspoonful of bicarbonate of soda (dry), and lastly the shelled Pea nuts. When these are well mixed in, turn the candy into buttered shallow tins, and press it down smooth with the back of a wooden spoon. Pea-nut Sauce.—Remove the shells from 1 pint of Pea- nuts, blanch, and break them in halves, put them in boiling stock, and boil till soft; then mash them fine in the stock in which they were cooked. Brown 1 table- spoonful of flour in 2 table-spoonfuls of butter, then stir it in with the nuts and cook for five minutes. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and serve. Salted Pea-nuts.—Shell and skin about lqt. of Pea-nuts, melt loz. of butter before the fire, put the nuts into it, and stir them about so as to oil them well with it. Put them on another dish, brown them in the oven, sprinkle with fine salt, and serve hot. PEACHES (Fr. Peclies ; Ger. Psirsichen; Ital. Pesche; Sp. Melocotons). — This very delicious fruit {Persica vulgaris) is a variety of the almond tribe; the three fruits Almond, Peach, and Nectarine differ from each other principally in the nature of the covering of the stone. In the Almond the covering, or drupe as it is called, is tough and leathery, whereas in the Peach and Nectarine it is fleshy and succulent. The Peach differs from the Nectarine in that the skin of the former is fluffy and that of the latter smooth. All three fruits are sometimes found growing on the same tree, and at times on the same branch. More than this the fruit is occasionally found to be a Peach on one side and a Nec- tarine on the other. The word Peach is a corruption of Persica, so called because they are supposed to be natives of Persia, and on their introduction in the South of Europe were known as Persian Apples. In many parts of the East, and in the more temperate parts of North and South America, the Peach is grown abundantly, especially in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Maryland. “ The varieties of Peaches and Nectarines,” Lindley informs us, “ are very numerous, and would be difficult to distinguish, were it not for a classification formed from certain characters afforded by the fruit, leaves, and flowers. In some varieties the fruit has firm flesh, ad- hering to the stone ; such are termed clingstones. Others have melting flesh, parting readily from the stone; these are called melters or freestones. The leaves are either glandless, or are furnished with globose, or with reniform glands at their bases. In some the flowers are large, in others small. Formerly the Peaches and Nectarines Peaches—continued. known in Europe had all bitter kernels; but sweet - kemelled varieties have of late years been introduced from Syria. The following are some of the best varieties of Peaches: Noblesse, Royal George, Acton Scot, Gross*; Mignonne, Bellegarde, Late Admirable, and Walburton Admirable.” Although the fruit of the Peach is perfectly harmless the flowers and the seeds contain a quantity of prussic acid. From the crushed fruit and seeds together a very fine nutty-flavoured brandy is prepared in many parts where Peaches are plentiful. In America, more par- ticularly in Maryland, Peaches are used for feeding hogs. The best Peaches for dessert are the freestones; the clingstones being more frequently used for cooking. Large quantities of Peaches preserved in tins are imported from America; and these are considered by many con- fectioners to answer every purpose for cooking, although it must be confessed that they lack somewhat in flavour. See Almonds, Nectarines. Baked Peach Dumplings.—Mix 1 teaspoonful of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda with lqt. of flour; add a little salt, sift them together, and make it into a paste with a small quantity of milk and water. Sprinkle a little Hour on the table, and roll the paste out several times, putting little pieces of lard on it to the extent of 6oz. Roll out thin the last time, and cut it into rounds with a biscuit-cutter. Put two or three pieces of canned Peaches on each round, 1 teaspoonful of butter, and 1 table-spoonful of caster sugar. Draw the edges firmly together ami place the dumplings on a large deep baking-dish, put them in a hot oven, and bake quickly. When baked, place.them on a hot dish, sprinkle a little caster sugar over them, and serve. Boiled Peach Dumplings.—Put in a basin Jib. of well- sifted flour, mixed with Joz. of baking powder; make a hollow in the centre and pour into it 1 gill of lukewarm milk; add Joz. of butter, J saltspoonful of salt, and break in one whole egg. Mix the ingredients well for two minutes, then incorporate the flour gradually. Lay the paste on a lightly-floured board or table, roll it into a square Jin. thick, then with a plain paste-cutter cut out six pieces, putting in the middle of each piece 2oz. of stewed peaches, fold up the edges all round, so as to enclose the peaches entirely. Have six small pieces of thick white cloth, Sin. square, butter and flour them well, arrange the dumplings in them, tie them firmly, leaving an empty space of lin. to allow the dumplings to swell, plunge them into a saucepan of boiling water, and let them boil for twenty minutes; remove from the fire, lift them out with a fork, drain for two minutes, cut the strings, and remove the cloths. Dress the dumplings on a hot dish, pour over hot wine sauce, and serve. Compote of Peaches.—(1) Take some ripe Peaches, cut them in halves, peel and stone them, and put them over the fire in a saucepan; cover with thick syrup, and let them simmer till sufficiently cooked. Crack the stones, and when the peaches are done enough lift them carefully out of the syrup with a skimmer, place them in a rather deep dish, and put the kernels in. Let the kernels and syrup boil till pretty thick, add strained lemon-juice to taste, mix it well with the syrup, and then pour it over the peaches in the dish. This may be served either hot or cold. (2) Wipe some Peaches, divide them in halves, and put them in a preserving pan with a little syrup, and let them stew gently for eight or ten minutes. When done, take the Peaches out carefully, drain, and arrange them in a circle on a glass dish. Reduce the syrup with a little raspberry juice, pour it round the Peaches, fill the centre with whipped cream, and serve. Compote of Peach and Orange.—Peaches put up in tins with syrup will do very well for this dish. Cut the tin open, drain the syrup from the Peaches, and add to this syrup as much sugar as it will dissolve. If the Peaches are not already sliced, slice them; to a 2lb. tin of Peaches For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils. Sauces, &c., refetred to, see under their special heads. 2