3 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. N ectar—continued. all dissolved. Remove the pan from the fire and add foz. each of the extracts of lemon, almond, rose, and vanilla, and lastly the same quantity of tartaric acid. Put the liquid into bottles, cork them down, and it is ready for use. (3) Nectar syrup may be made by mixing 5 pints of vanilla syrup with 1 pint of pine-apple syrup, and double the quantity of raspberry or strawberry syrup. Bottle, cork, and it is fit for use. (4) Mix into 1 pint of syrup made from loaf sugar 2 drachms each of the extracts of rose, lemon, and vanilla, and 1 drachm of extract of bitter almonds. Colour a pretty pink with some vegetable colouring, bottle, cork well, and keep in a cool place. (5) Mix together J pint of lemon syrup, £ pint of orange syrup, £ pint of pine-apple syrup, and 2 table-spoonfuls of extract of vanilla. Bottle, cork well, and keep in a cool place. NECTARINES (Fr. Brugnons; Ger. Psirsiche; Ital. Prugnole; Sp. Ciruelas).—The Nectarine (see Fig. 3) is a smooth-skinned variety of the peach (Persica vul- garis). Although allied to the almond, the covering of the stone differs entirely. Nectarines are better suited Fig. 3. Nectarine. for culinary purposes than peaches. The name is evi- dently derived from nectar, probably in consequence of the delicate flavour of the fruit. The Spanish Nec- tarine or cocoa plum is quite distinct. Nectarines are not so often met with in this country as they used to be, and then only as a hot-house production; but as they are sufficiently plentiful in other parts, the following receipts should be found useful: Candied Nectarines. -Cut the Nectarines to extract the stones, and put the fruit in a pan with half their weight of crashed loaf sugar and 1 gill of water to each pound of sugar; boil over a bright fire until the syrup is clear, carefully removing the scum as it rises. Take out the Nectarines, using a skimmer to do so, put them on Hat dishes, cover them, and let them remain for a day. Put the pan with the sugar over the fire and boil until ‘it is thick; then add the fruit and boil si >wly until quite hot. Take them out again, put them on a dish, cover, and let them remain for one day longer. Boil the syrup again, add the fruit, and let them remain for a short time longer. Put them out on a sieve to dry, sprinkle them over with caster sugar, turning frequently until dry and candied, when they will be fit for use. Candied Nectarines will keep for some time. Green-Nectarine Pickle. Put a thin layer of salt on a dish, over this put a layer of green Nectarines, then salt and more fruit, and continue in this way until as much is used as required. Cover over with a thick coating of salt, and let the fruit remain for four or five days. Care- fully take out the fruit, wipe them dry, and place in the sun for two or three days, turning frequently; then pack away in jars. In the meantime have ready a mixture sufficient to cover tire fruit, composed of loz. each of white ginger, long peppers, allspice, and cloves, ^oz. of sugar, one shallot, and six chillies to each quart of vinegar. Let the vinegar boil for ten or fifteen minutes, remove from the fire, add and dissolve in it a very small quantity of alum, which will assist to make the fruit crisp; when cold, Nectarines—continued. pour this over the fruit, then cover the jars, and pack away for future use. Nectarine Compote.—Peel and stone some Nectarines, cut them in halves, and put them in a saucepan with some syrup at the small-thread degree (see Sugar-boiling), and Fig. 4. Nectarine Compote. cook them until quite tender. When cold they should be served in a compote-dish (see Fig. 4) and the syrup poured over. A little spinach-green added to the syrup improves the effect. Nectarine Fritters.—Split the fruit in halves and remove the stones; put the fruit on a dish, strew caster sugar over, and moisten with a few table-spoonfuls of brandy. Let the Nectarines steep for an hour or two. Meantime prepare a good frying-batter, put a large lump of lard or butter into a flat stewpan, and put it on the fire. Dip the halves of Nectarines in the batter, then put them in the fat, and fry a bright golden brown. Drain, arrange on a dish garnished with a fancy dish-paper, dust lightly with caster sugar, and serve. Nectarine Jam.—Peel the Nectarines, cut them in halves, crack the stones, then blanch and cut the kernels into small pieces. Put the peels and broken stones into a saucepan with 4 pint of water for every pound of the fruit, and boil until reduced to half its former quantity; then strain the liquor. Place the fruit in a preserving- pan, and put in with it for each pound lib. of coarsely- crashed loaf sugar. Add the liquor from the stones and the kernels, with eight blanched and chopped bitter almonds for each Jib. of kernels. Place the pan over a slow fire, and stir the contents with a wooden spoon until reduced to a stiff consistency. Turn the jam into jars, and leave for several hours until quite cold ; then sift a small quan- tity of caster sugar over the top of each, cover with rounds of white paper that have been dipped in beaten egg, tie round the jars with twine, and pack them away for use. Nectarine Pulp for Ices.—Cut some Nectarines in halves, remove the stones, and take out the kernels. Blanch the fruit, and put them in a copper pan with a little water, well stirring with a wooden spoon until they are reduced to a pulp. To every pound of pulp add 4oz. of crashed loaf sugar, mix well together, put into bottles, cork and tie them down, and place them in a deep pan with hay between to prevent them from breaking; fill up to about half their height with water, and steam gently over a moderate fire for twenty minutes. Let the jars remain in the water until cold, take them out, wax over the corks, and the pulp will be ready for use. Preserved Nectarines. (1) Pare some Nectarines, cut them in halves to remove the stones, put them into a saucepan of boiling water, and cook gently at the side of the fire. As soon as the fruit floats on the top take them out, and put on a strainer to drain. Weigh them, and to every pound add fib. of clarified sugar ; put the fruit and sugar into a preserving-pan, boil until the syrup is nearly clear, then put them with the syrup on one side to cool. Let the whole remain for a day, then drain oft' the syrup, and boil until it becomes quite thick; add the fruit, and boil for a short time. Repeat this once more, and lastly pour the whole into a deep dish and let it remain for a couple of days. Put it into pots or jars, cover them tightly, and the preserves are ready for use. (2) Split open the required quantity of fruit, take out the stones, and put the fruit into clarified sugar until well saturated. Now skim the liquor, cover with paper, For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. B 2