TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 191 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Pilau—continued. Pillau, Pilaf, Pellow, Pooloo, &c., according to the fancy of the writer. Several receipts will be found under various headings, the following being very fair types of all: English Pilau.—Bone a loin of mutton, trim off all the sinewy pieces of fat and skin, and cut the meat up into pieces of an equal size. Put the bones in a stewpan with a knuckle of veal, cover them with broth, place them over the fire till boiling, then move it to the side, skim, and keep it simmering; season with a few sliced vegetables and a bunch of sweet herbs. Put the pieces of loin in a stewpan with Jib. of raw ham, cut into small pieces, and a lump of butter; toss them about over a quick fire till nicely browned, then pour in h pint of broth, dust hi a small quantity of salt and pepper, and boil till the broth is reduced to a glaze. Pour a little more broth over the meat, boil that also till reduced to a glaze, then pour in some more, and continue thus till the mutton is tender, seasoning it with 1 pinch of cayenne pepper. Put a chopped onion in a saucepan with a little butter, fry it till lightly browned, then put in 1 breakfast-cupful of well- washed and dried rice, and toss it about for a few minutes over the fire. Strain the broth from the bones, pour it over the rice, and cook gently at the side of the fire without stirring. When tender, the rice should be dry and the grains left whole. Put 2oz. of butter in small pieces into the rice and 3oz. of grated Parmesan cheese, and stir lightly to mix it. Turn two-thirds of the rice into a deep dish, make a hollow in the centre, in which put the stewed meat; place the remainder of the rice on the top, level the surface with the blade of a knife, pour a few -table-spoonfuls of melted butter over it, grate over 2oz. of Parmesan cheese, brown it lightly under the salamander, and serve. Xndian Pilau.—Throw 1 teacupful of rice into fast-boiling water and let it boil for twenty minutes, then drain it in a colander or a sieve. Stir in loz. of butter and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Pile the rice on a hot dish, garnish with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, and surround it with onions fried till dry. Persian Pilau.—Cut about 21b. of lean raw mutton, lamb, or other meat into small pieces, put them in a saucepan with 3oz. of butter, and fry till brown, taking care not to burn them. Take the pieces of meat out of the saucepan and place them on a dish. Peel and chop three onions, put them into the saucepan with the butter that the meat was fried in, and stir them about until browned. Put the pieces of meat in with the onions, also a few table-spoon- fuls of blanched pistachio kernels, 1 table-spoonful of well- washed currants, h teaspoonful of mixed spice, and ljlb. of rice that has been well washed; pour in 3 pints of cold water, and add a lump of salt. Place the lid on the pan, solder round the edges with flour-and-water paste to keep it air-tight, and boil the contents slowly at the side of the fire until all the moisture is absorbed. When cooked, turn the Pilau carefully on to a hot dish, and serve. Turkish Pilau.—Put 1 breakfast-c.upful of stewed and strained tomatoes in a saucepan with l pint of broth, one minced onion, and season well with pepper and salt. When boiling, put 1 breakfast-cupful of well-washed rice in, stir it lightly till the liquor is absorbed, then put in 1 teacupful of butter. Put the saucepan at the back of the stove, and steam the contents for twenty minutes. Remove the lid, stir the Pilau lightly, cover it with a cloth, and let the steam escape; I breakfast-cupful of chopped cooked meat can be added if liked. Serve the Pilau as a vegetable without the meat, and as an entree with it. PILCHARDS.—The common name for the Pilchard (Clupea pilchardus) is the gipsy herring. It is a fine fat fish (see Fig. 244) and is very abundant on the Devonshire and Cornwall coasts; but may be found all over the Channel even to the French coast, where it is known by the name of sardine. Pilchards are generally salted or preserved in oil in tins. Fresh Pilchards are in season Pilchards—continued. between July and Christmas, but are rarely found fresh in our inland markets. The following receipts are well known where Pilchards are plentiful; or they may be cooked like herrings. Pilchard Crodtons.—Open a tin of Pilchards, take the fish carefully out, and lay them on a sieve to drain. When all the oil possible has run off, skin the Pilchards and separate the flesh from the bones; chop the flesh, mix with it plenty of anchovy sauce, and season well with salt and pepper. Put a small piece of butter in with the mixture, and work it until smooth with the broad flat blade of a knife. Boil two or three eggs hard, put them into cold water, and leave until cold; then peel, and cut them into slices. Cut some rounds of bread with a pastry- cutter, about 2in. in diameter, and toast them; butter them, spread some of the fish mixture over each, lay the slices of hard-boiled eggs on the top, and put them into an oven for a few minutes just to heat. Spread a folded napkin on a fancy disli-paper over a hot dish, lay the pieces of toast on it, garnish -with parsley that has been fried, and serve. Pilchard-and-Leek Pie.—The night before making this pie, put four or five salted Pilchards in a bowl of cold water, and let them soak all night. On the following morning, clean them and trim off their tails and fins. Trim off all the green from six leeks, cut the white part into pieces, and scald them in boiling salted water. Arrange the fish and leeks in layers in a pie-dish, season- ing to taste between each layer; cover them with a good crust, and bake in a moderate oven. Whenrtlie pie is cooked, lift the cover and mix in J breakfast-cupful of thick boiling cream; replace the cover, stand the pie-dish on a flat dish, and serve. PIMENTO.—See Allspice. PINE-APPLES (Fr. Ananas; Ger. Ananase; Ital. Ananassi; Sp. Pinas de Indias).—The Pine-apple is the fruit of a tropical plant (Ananas sativa) with rigid foliage, having sharp spines along the edges, and it has long been acknowledged one of the most delicious fruits in exist- ence. It is said to be a native of Brazil, and to have been carried thence to the West, and afterwards to the East Indies. The fruit is borne on a short stem which rises in the centre of the plant and bears a scaly conical spike, surmounted by a number of small spiny leaves called the crown. This conical body, after flowering, gradually enlarges until it becomes the fruit (see Fig. 245). The Pine-apple is first mentioned in England as having been presented to Oliver Cromwell, and afterwards it was regarded as a delicacy by Charles II. Since then ex- traordinary efforts have been made to cultivate the Pine in this country, and with the greatest success, for Pine- apples have been matured in pots, surpassing in size and flavour those of foreign growth. The Provi- dence Pine-apple is a common kind imported from the Bahama Islands, and it may frequently be seen on costermongers’ barrows, selling at very low prices. Pine-apples can be used for many culinary purposes, and those preserved in tins are nearly as good as the fresh for confectionery.