THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 106 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec.. referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—co ntinued. during the cooking. Cut flowers or leaves out of the trimmings of paste, damp them underneath with water, and arrange them on the top of the pie. Brush the pie over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, and bake it for about two hours. It should be covered with a sheet of paper when it begins to colour, to prevent it getting too brown. Skim the fat oil'the cooking-liquor of the Partridges, strain it through a fine hair sieve into a small saucepan, season highly, and give it a slightly acid flavour with lemon-juice; mix in an equal quantity of clear broth, and boil it for a few minutes over a brisk fire. When the pie is baked, pour the gravy in at the top, and leave it until cold. When ready to serve, lift the pie out, put it on a folded napkin or a lace-edged dish-paper on a dish, cut it open to show the contents, and garnish it with a few sprigs of parsley. See Fig. 122. Partridge Pudding.—(1) Cut a pair of plump Partridges into convenient-sized pieces, and trim them neatly, skinning each piece. Butter a pudding-basin, line it with a good suet-crust, and put in the pieces of birds, with a few mushrooms, 2 table-spoonfuls of minced shallots, 1 table-spoonful of minced parsley, and a moderate quantity of salt and pepper. Moisten with a small quantity of water, and cover with a flat of the crust. Tie a floured cloth over the pudding, put it into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for three hours, adding more boiling water occa- sionally to keep the pudding well covered with it. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. (2) Clean two Partridges, cut them into joints, and trim them. Butter a pudding-basin that will hold 1 \ pints, and line it with a suet-paste. Cut till, of veal into thin slices, lay them at the bottom of the basin, put the Partridges in, and sprinkle over some salt, pepper, chopped shallot, and chopped mushrooms; pour in 1 teacupful of stock, put a round of the crust on the top, damping and pressing the edges together, tie a cloth over, plunge the pudding into boiling water, and boil it for two hours. When cooked, turn the pudding out of the basin on to a hot dish, and serve. Partridge Quenelles.—(1) Trim and cut the fillets of two fresh Partridges into pieces, put them in a mortar, pound them, and mix with them a third of their quantity each of panada and butter; when well mixed and smooth, stir in the beaten yolks of three eggs, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and pass all through a fine hair sieve; work the mixture in a basin with a spoon, adding gradually 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze. Mould fifteen quenelles out of the forcemeat with two table-spoons, and put them side by side on a buttered baking-sheet. Place the legs and backs of the Partridges in a saucepan with some trimmings of ham and bacon around them, minced vegetables, a few peppercorns, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs, brown them lightly over the fire, pour in some broth and white wine mixed in equal quantities, skim it well, put the lid on, stand the saucepan at the edge of the fire, and let the contents simmer for thirty-five minutes. Strain through a fine hair sieve. Let it cool, then skim the fat off, and clarify it with 5oz. of lean veal, b wine- glassful of Madeira, and one egg. Put the liquor when clear into a small saucepan, boil it, thicken it very slightly with a little flour mixed with water, and stir it over the fire for a few minutes longer. Have a saucepan of boiling salted water, and plunge the quenelles in. When cooked, drain them on a cloth, arrange them pyramidically on a hot dish, porn- the sauce over, and serve. (2) Take the fillets of three young Partridges, trim off the skin and sinews, chop the meat, put it in a mortar, pound it, then rub it through a fine hair sieve, and mix with it an equal quantity of bread panada. Boil a calf’s udder in plain water. When it is done, leave it till cold; then trim all the upper part, cut it into small pieces, pound it in the mortar, pass it through the sieve, and mix it with the other ingredients. Beat in two whole eggs and the yolk of one, and season with pepper, salt, and allspice. The preparation is then ready for use. (3) Trim off the skin of some Partridge-flesh, pound it in a mortar, and mix with it a third of its bulk of panada and Partridges—continued. the same of butter. Work the mixture till quite smooth, season with salt and grated nutmeg, and mix with it sufficient yolks of eggs to bring it to a good consistency. Pass the mixture through a line hair sieve, and stir in gradually 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of melted glaze. With the aid of two table-spoons mould the mixture into quenelles, and slip them out of hand into a buttered flat stewpan. Put the bones and trimmings of the birds into a saucepan with some pieces of bacon and ham, chopped vegetables, a bunch of sweet herbs and parsley, and seven or eight peppercorns. Stand the saucepan over the fire till the contents have browned slightly, then pour in sufficient broth and white wine in equal proportions to cover. When boiling, skim the liquor, move the saucepan to the side of the fire, and simmer for three-quarters-of-an-hour. Pass the liquor through a fine hair sieve into a basin, skim off the fat, and let it cool. Clarify the liquor, turn it into a small stewpan, and boil it up again. Blend 1 table-spoonful of arrowroot with a little milk, and when smooth add it to the fumet, and stir over the fire till slightly thickened. Have ready a saucepan of boiling salted water, plunge the quenelles into it, and poach them for fifteen minutes. When cooked, drain them, pile them in a pyramid on a hot dish, pour the fumet over them, and serve. Partridge Rissoles.—(1) Cut the flesh of three roast Par- tridges into small dice; mince four or five mushrooms, mix them with the meat, sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them, and add a little grated nutmeg and the strained juice of one lemon. Put 1 teacupful each of butter and flour in a saucepan, and stir it over the fire till mixed; then pour in gradually b pint each of broth and cream, and continue stirring the sauce over the fire till cooked ; then put in the meat and mushrooms, and set it back to become cold. When ready, shape the preparation into rolls the size of the finger, and flour them well; dip a paste- brusli in beaten egg, brush them over, and breadcrumb them. Put some lard in a frying-pan, and when boiling put the rissoles in and fry them till nicely and equally browned. Drain and arrange the rissoles on a hot dish, garnish them with fried parsley, and serve. (2) Cut the fillets from two raw Partridges, pare and chop them finely, and mix with them 5oz. each of blanched bacon and raw ox-marrow, also chopped small and seasoned with salt, pepper, and nutmeg; mix with this two raw truffles chopped, and the beaten yolk of one egg. Shape the preparation into rissoles, put them in boiling fat, and fry them till nicely browned on both sides. When cooked, drain them, put them on a folded napkin on a hot dish, and serve. Partridge Salad.—(1) Cut the meat off the bones of some cold roast Partridge, trim off the skin, and cut the meat into small nicely-shaped pieces; pour over it a plain salad dressing of oil and vinegar, and let it mace- rate for an hour. Wash a large cabbage lettuce, pull the leaves apart, and put them on to a dish. Mix a small quantity of minced pickle and chopped parsley with the Partridge, then turn the whole into the dish over the Fig. 123. Partridge Salad. lettuce-leaves, garnish with quarters or slices of hard- boiled eggs (see Fig. 123), and serve. Another way of prepar- ing this salad is to cut up some celery, put it in a bowl, drain the Partridge-flesh from the plain dressing, put it in with the celery, pour a mayonnaise dressing over, garnish, and serve. (2) Cut some cold roast Partridges into joints, skin them, and trim each piece neatly. Make a dressing with one part of tarragon vinegar to two parts of salad-oil, mix