140 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, die., referred to, see under their special heads. Peaches—continued. Peaches with them, close the cut with a piece of Peach, and either sew or tie it in place. Put the stuffed Peaches into glass jars, cover them with cold vinegar, pour 2 table- spoonfuls of salad-oil in each jar, and seal them. Preserved Peaches.—(1) Take some large juicy Peaches, peel, and quarter them. Crack half the stones and blanch the kernels. Weigh the Peaches, lay them in a deep dish, mixing with them the blanched kernels and lib. of powdered white sugar to every pound of Peaches; cover and let them remain all night. Next day put Peaches, kernels, sugar, and any juice that has run from them into a pre- serving-pan and boil them till they look clear and are quite soft, skimming off’ all scum as it rises. When the fruit is soft and looks clear take the pan from the fire, let it cool a little, and then put the preserve into jars. When quite cold lay a piece of white paper dipped in brandy on top of the preserve in each jar, and cover the jars airtight. (2) Mix together an equal quantity of honey and spring water, beat well, and put it into an earthenware vessel. Place some freshly-gathered Peaches in and cover them closely. Wash the fruit when taken out in cold water, and it is fit for immediate use. (3) Canadian.—Make a sufficient quantity of thin syrup (allowing Jib of coarsely crushed loaf sugar to every pint of water) to cover the fruit well. Peel the Peaches and drop them carefully into the boiling syrup. Boil them for ten minutes, then take them out, a few at a time, and put them into wide-mouthed bottles or jars. When the jars are full, pour in a sufficient quantity of the syrup to cover the fruit, and, should any air bubbles have formed on the top, remove them with the handle of a spoon. Cover the jars immediately with rounds of white paper, three thick, pasting each round down separately with boiled flour-and-water paste, and stow them away in a dry store-cupboard. Stewed Peaches.—(1) Peel and cut into quarters ten medium-sized ripe Peaches, removing the stones, put them into a saucepan with I pint of cold water, and add Jib of granulated sugar. Place the pan on the stove, and when boiling skim well; cook for five minutes, meanwhile stirring slowly from the bottom, to avoid mashing the fruit; remove from the fire, and immediately add 1 gill of kirschenwasser, mixing well together for about half a minute. Pour the preparation into a bowl, let it get cool, turn it out on to a dish, and serve. (2) To lib. of loaf sugar allow J pint of sherry, madeira, or marsala wine. Put the wine and sugar into a pre- serving-pan on the stove and let it boil slowly, removing the scum as it rises. Skin the Peaches, cut them into halves, and lay them in cold water as they are done to keep their colour. When the syrup is clear, put in as many Peaches as will boil without crowding, let them boil gently till they begin to look clear, then take them care- fully out of the syrup without breaking, and put them into glass jars, if to be kept, or if for immediate use, into glass dishes. Continue cooking the Peaches, a few at a time, till the syrup is reduced to f pint; boil this till it is reduced to J pint and pour it over the Peaches. If they are not for immediate use be careful when they are cold to cover the jars airtight. Stewed Peaches a la Conde.—(1) Wipe the Peaches, put them in a preserving-pan with some clarified sugar, and stew them. Prepare a croustade of rice, bake it, and when done turn it out on to a hot dish; ornament it with dried cherries and strips of angelica, and put the stewed Peaches round it; make a sauce with apricot marmalade and madeira in equal parts, and pour it over. (2) Split twelve Peaches into halves, take out the stones, put them in boiling syrup for a few minutes, then drain and take off the skins. Mix 1 teacupful of cornflour with 3oz. of crushed loaf sugar, 1J pints of milk, and a stick of vanilla; stir it over the fire till a thick paste; spread half of the paste on a dish, and when cold shape it into croquettes the size of a cork; dip them in beaten egg and breadcrumb them. Prepare a savarine socle and put it on a dish. Fry the croquettes in boiling butter, drain Peaches—continued. them, and garnish round the socle with them; arrange the Peaches in two circles on the socle; stir some hot cream in with the remainder of the paste till it becomes thick, then put it in the circle of Peaches; reduce the syrup, pour it over them, and serve. FEARS (Fr. Poires; Ger. Birnen; It at. Pere; Sp. Peras).—The tree that bears this fruit (Pyrus communis) is of the same tribe as the apple, and is a native of Europe, Circassia, Central Asia, and the north of China; but it is not met with in Southern India. Lindley, in the “ Treasury of Botany,” in- forms us that from the Wild Pear have arisen improved varie- ties in different countries, which instead of being hard and gritty, as the earlier cultivated sorts generally were, become at matu- rity as melting as a Peach. Many of the French Pears, raised up- wards of two centuries ago, are no longer reckoned worthy of cultivation. A collection of them, consisting of fifty sorts, existed at Chelsea 150 years ago, and are figured in an early volume of the “ Transactions ” of the Horticul- tural Society. Most of the kinds imported from France have been superseded by Belgian varieties, which have proved in general of better quality, and more suitable for the climate of England. Some of these improved varieties, only known comparatively recently in this country, existed in the latter part of the last century, chiefly in the gardens attached to numerous religious establishments in Belgium; and it was only after the close of the war in 1815 that they were obtained in England and other countries. The varieties of Pears are now very numerous. After excluding a vast number of worthless kinds, up- ward of a thousand of excellent quality exist in some collections. The following are of established merit: Passe Colmar, Glou Morceau, Winter Nelis, Beurre Bose (see Fig. 186), Thompson’s, Louise Bonne, Autumn Bergamot (see Fig. 187), Jargonel, Fondante d’Automne, Fig. 187. Autumn Bergamot Pear. Comte de Lamy, Passe Crassane (see Fig. 188), Easter Beurre Bergamotte d’Esperen, Williams’ Bon Chretien (see Fig. 189), Josephine de Marines, Easter Beurre (see Fig. 190), Uvedale’s St. Germain (see Fig. 191), Beurre Sterckmans (see Fig. 192), and Beurre Ranee. Mr. Knight, when president of the Horticultural Society, devoted great attention to crossing and raising new Pears from seed. A considerable number of those which he obtained were very good; but perhaps the best is Knight’s Monarch. Besides its use for dessert, the Pear is employed Fig. 186. Beurre Bose Pear.