THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 192 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Fine-apples—continued. Bavaroise of Fine-apple.—Peel the Pine, cut it into slices Jin. in thickness, put them in a preserving-pan with Jib. of loaf sugar, Joz. of isinglass, and \ teacupful of water. Put the pan over a moderate fire, and stew the contents till tender, keeping them well stirred. Ruh the Pine through a fine hair sieve into a basin, stand it on ice, and keep it stirred till on the point of setting, then mix in thoroughly 1 pint of well-whipped cream. Pour the bavaroise into a mould, close it, and pack in pounded ice and salt. In about two hours’ time, or more, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, turn the bavaroise out on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve. Bottled Fine-apple.—Peel the rind smoothly and carefully off some Pine apples, pick out all the discoloured parts, and cut off the heads and stalks. Cut the Pines into slices, and pack them closely in wide-mouthed bottles or glass jars; fill each one with some syrup boiled to the 26deg., cork them, and tie down. Put the bottles in a saucepan of water, placing straw round them to prevent them knocking together and breaking, and boil them gently for twenty-five minutes. At the end of that time take the saucepan off the fire, and leave the bottles in the water till cold; then dip their noses in bottle wax, and store them away for use. Candied Fine-apple Knots.—Peel and slice sufficient Pine- apple vuth a fourth of the quantity of ribston pippins to make lib. of pulp. Boil them in \ pint of water till tender, then rub them through a cane sieve. Boil 14oz. of sugar to the ball (see Sugar-boiling), then mix the pulp with it, colour with a small quantity of saffron, and stir it over the fire till reduced to a stiff pasts. Turn the paste on to a baking-sheet, level it off with the blade of a knife to about Jin. in thickness, then place it into a moderately-heated screen, and dry for several hours. Pass a knife between the paste and baking-sheet to detach it, turn the paste over, and dry it for an hour longer. When cold, cut the paste into narrow strips between 5in. and 6in. in length, shape them into true-lover’s knots, or double figures of eight, and place them on closely-latticed wire trays. Dry the knots for about an hour in the screen, then pack them away for use. Fine-apples—continued. Compote of Fine-apple.—Peel a Pine-apple and cut it into slices about Jin. in thickness. Cut all the slices into halves, with the exception of one of the middle ones, which should be-left whole. Put them in a sugar-boiler, with some syrup at 20deg., and let them simmer gently at the side of the fire for an hour. Put the Pine-apple into a basin, pour the syrup over, and let it steep for twenty-four hours. At the end of that time, put the slices on a wire drainer, strain the syrup through a silk Fig. 246. Compote of Pine-apple. sieve into a sugar-boiler, and boil till reduced to 32deg. Arrange the half-slices of Pine-apple in the centre of a compote dish, put the round slice on the top, pour the syrup over (see Fig. 246), and serve. Dried Fine-apple.—Peel and cut out any discoloured parts of a Pine apple, cut them in slices Jin. thick, put them in a preserving-pan with some syrup at 22deg., and let them simmer for ten minutes. Put the Pine apple and syrup in a white-lined pan, and leave them till the follow- ing day. Strain the syrup off, boil it, skim, and pom- it over the Pine-apple again. Proceed in the same way the two following days. On the fourth day take the slices of Pine-apple out of the syrup, drain them well, and put them, apart from each other, on wire trays. Stand the trays on dishes to catch the drippings, and put them in the screen. When dry, take them out of the screen, and when cold, pack the slices of Pine apple in boxes between sheets of white paper. Fine-apple Brandy.—Take a good-sized ripe Pine-apple, cut off the crown, pare off the rind, and cut out the eyes. The rind will do to make Pine apple Cider. Cut the Pine apple into slices about Jin. thick, weigh it, and take the same weight of powdered white sugar. Put a layer of the sugar at the bottom of a large glass jar, then a slice of Pine-apple on top of this, a layer of sugar, then Pine-apple, and so on, finishing with a layer of sugar, and pour into the jar enough brandy to stand lin. above the Pine apple. Close the jar so that it is quite air-tight, and keep in a cool dark place for at least a month. Serve the Pine apple at dessert. Three-parts of a wineglassful of the brandy put into a tumbler and filled up with seltzer or soda water makes a nice summer drink. Fine-apple Cake.—(1) Mix 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar and 1 teaspoonful of bicarbonate of soda in 34 breakfast- cupfuls of flour; then mb in the flour Jib. of butter. When quite smooth, work in five eggs, beaten separately, and 1 teacupful of milk. Pour the mixture in jelly cake- tins, 4in. or 5in. deep, and bake it. Mix some tartaric acid and Pine apple juice with icing, and when the cake is done, spread it thickly over the top and put a thick layer of grated Pine apple over. (2) Have ready two cake moulds. Peel a small Pine- apple and grate it. Beat Jib. of butter to a cream with lib. of powdered sugar; add the yolks of twelve eggs to it, also the grated Pine-apple. Sift a teaspoonful of salt and 2 piled teaspoonfuls of baking-powder with lib. of flour, and quickly heat them into the cake batter. Put the hatter at once into the moulds, and bake the cakes in a moderate oven for about three-quarters-of-an-hour, or