THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 98 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. some slices of cooked black truffles to an oval shape, and put one on each of the celestmes. Mask the celestines with aspic jelly, arrange them in a circular order on a layer of aspic-jelly that has set on a dish, put some cooked truffles in the circle, arrange some jelly croft tons round the base, and serve. Chartreuse of Partridge.—(1) Cut a cabbage into quarters, wash it well, plunge it into boiling water, then steep it in cold water for two hours. Drain and squeeze all the water out of the cabbage, cut the stalks out, tie the pieces together, and put them in a stewpan with two or three slices of streaky bacon previously blanched; pour some general stock, mixed with essence of Partridge, over it, put in some clarified fat, and finish as described for Cabbage for Garnishing. Cut some carrots and turnips into slices 2in. long with a vegetable-cutter, and cook them separately as described for Garnishes. Put a round of paper at the bottom of a plain entree-mould that has been buttered, garnish it with the pieces of carrot and turnip, and put, a layer of cabbage in the mould. Cut up three roast Partridges, put four fillets on the cabbage, then put another layer of the cabbage on them; continue with alternate layers of Partridge and cabbage till the mould is full. Stand the mould in a bain-marie till the contents are warm. When ready to serve, turn the char- treuse on to an entree-dish, and arrange alternately round the base some rounds of carrots and turnips, with a French bean between each. Put some rings of turnip round the top of the chartreuse, and put a Brussels sprout in each. Make a sort of cup or vase with a carrot, fill it with French beans, and place it in the centre. Reduce some Spanish sauce with some essence of Partridge, fill a sauceboat with it, and serve with the chartreuse. (2) Empty and clean two full-grown Partridges (old ones are the best, but they should be quite fresh), lard them with bacon, and put them in a stewpan with a little well- seasoned stock, some bacon cut in dice, and some sausages cut in slices. Braise them till the Partridges are tender; the bacon will require a little longer cooking. Partially cook some cabbage, carrots, and turnips. Get a plain mould that is not very deep, line it with the vegetables, arranging them in patterns, put in the Partridges, sausages, and bacon, pressing them down tightly, cover with a sheet of buttered paper, stand the mould in a bain- marie, and finish cooking.* Turn the chartreuse on to a hot dish, pour the sauce round, and serve. (3) Cut the breast and wings of a pair of plump Partridges into neat pieces ; break up the carcases of the birds, put them with any trimmings into a saucepan, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, a couple of sliced shallots, a sliced carrot, some trimmings of ham, a moderate quan- tity of spices, and salt and pepper to taste. Pour in a sufficient quantity of clear stock to cover all, and let it boil gently at the side of the fire for two hours. Peel and boil sepa- rately an equal quantity of turnips and carrots, drain them before they are too much cooked, then with a small round cutter cut the turnips and the red part of the carrots into as many rounds as possible. If the vegetables are cut before the bones are put on to stew, their trimmings can be used to flavour the stock. A little sugar should be put in the water that the vegetables are boiled in. Wash a nice large cabbage, and boil it; when tender, drain and press out as much of the water as possible. At the end of the two hours, strain the liquor from the bones into a clean stewpan, put the wings and breasts of the Par- tridges in it, and keep them simmering gently until tender. Oil the interior of a plain round mould with salad-oil, then line the mould with well-oiled paper cut to fit it exactly, and cover the bottom with circles of carrots and turnips, making each piece overlap the other a little. When that is done, line the sides of the mould in the same way, making the pieces keep in position by pressing them with the fingers. Next line the mould with some of the cabbage, fill the centre with the wings and breasts of the Partridges, and moisten with a small quantity of their cooking-liquor; fill up the spaces between the pieces of meat with cabbage, then over the top put what cabbage there is left, and press it tightly down. Tie __ a Partridges—continued. sheet of paper over the top of the mould, stand it in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, and steam it for an hour. Boil the remainder of the gravy until slightly reduced, and thicken it with a brown roux. When the chartreuse is ready, remove the paper off the top, put a hot dish in its place, and turn it gently over. Leave it in that position for a minute or two, then drain off' any water that may have run in the dish, and carefully remove the mould. Pick all the paper oft' the chartreuse, pour the gravy round it, and serve. Chartreuse of Partridges a la Moderne.—Pluck, singe, and draw two Partridges, truss them with their legs forced in, and lard them lengthwise with thin fillets of bacon. Trim off the discoloured and outer leaves of two savoys, cut them into quarters, wash them well, and boil for five minutes; then plunge them into cold water, drain them well on a sieve, and squeeze as dry as possible in a cloth. Cut out the stalks, and put the cabbages in a stewpan with two onions, each stuck with three cloves, one carrot, a bunch of parsley and thyme, two bay-leaves, and fib. of streaky bacon. Pour in lqt. of white stock, put the lid on the stewpan, and boil the contents gently until the liquor has reduced to a thin glaze. Cover the Partridges with sheets of buttered paper, and roast them before a clear fire, keeping them well basted. When cooked, remove the paper and trussing-skewers from the birds, and put them in with the stewed cabbage, which should be removed from the fire. Butter a large plain oval- shaped mould, and line it with buttered paper. Peel several large turnips and carrots, and cut them into thin strips about tin. in length. Stew the carrots and turnips separately in white stock with a small quantity of sugar, and when tender drain them; also peel and stew in the same manner several small onions. Place a row of the onions round the bottom of the mould, above them put a row of the strips of carrots slantwise and touching each other, next a row of turnips, then another of carrots, and so on until the mould is full. Drain the cabbage, put a thick layer of it at the bottom of the mould and a thinner layer round the sides, place the Partridges in the centre with the bacon cut into thin slices, and cover witli a layer of the cabbage. Stand the mould in a saucepan with boiling water to three-parts its height, care being taken not to let the water enter the mould, and stand it over the fire to get hot. Peel eighteen or twenty small young carrots, turning them to the shape of pears; put them in a saucepan with a little sugar and white stock, and boil them. Boil separately a small very white head of cauliflower and 2 breakfast-cupfuls of green peas. Prepare a thin border of mashed potatoes on a hot dish, cut a little piece off the end of each carrot, and stick them round on the potato border; turn the chartreuse into the centre, place the cauliflower on the top, and pour the peas between it and the potato border. Strain the cooking-liquor of the cabbage into a clean stewpan, mix with it lqt. of brown sauce, and boil until reduced to the consistency of half-glaze. Pour the sauce round and carefully over the chartreuse, and serve. If a little care and taste are exercised in the arrangement of this dish, the effect will be very pretty. Chaudfroid of Partridges.—(1) Cut off the legs and wings from a couple of uncooked birds; chop the carcases into small pieces, put them in a mortar, and pound them. Put the pounded carcases into a stewpan with some chopped trimmings of bacon, one or two onions and carrots, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a lump of butter; season to taste with salt, pepper, and spices, and toss the whole over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten gradually with 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, toss them about for a few minutes longer, then pour in 1} pints of clear stock ; move the saucepan to the edge of the fire, and let it simmer for an-hour-and-a-half. At the end of that time, strain the liquor into a basin, and let it cool a little; then skim off all the fat. Put 1 table spoonful each of flour and butter into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire until mixed and browned ; then pour the above liquor in slowly, and add 1 breakfast-cup- ful of unclarified aspic jelly. Cut up two cold roasted