THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 70 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Ctensils, Sauces, <kc., referred to, see under their special heads. Oysters—continued. even though we revert to those preserved in tins. Of the imported Oysters, the Americans are said to be the best, but some ■cooks prefer the French, Dutch (see Fig. 86), or Anglo-Portuguese. Those commonly known as Blue- points (see Fig. 87), are exceedingly ugly in the shape and character of the shell, and are proportionately wanting in flavour. Oysters must be kept alive, and as they are liable to fret and waste in substance whilst in captivity, they require frequent change of water, and occasional feeding, or fattening, as it is called. The following is the system usually adopted: Take some fresh Oysters, put them into a tub of water, wash and scrub them with a birch or heather broom till quite clean, then lay them in an earthenware pan with the flat shell upwards; sprinkle them with flour or oatmeal, and cover with salted water (quite as salt as sea water), bay-salt being the best for this purpose. Change the salted water every day, and sprinkle the Oysters with oatmeal or flour; thus they will fatten. Sometimes it is necessary to preserve Oysters for culinary use, especially in localities where they are scarce or the supplies insufficient. When this is the case, the following will be found an excellent method of preparing them so that they will keep good, although not fresh, and be always ready for use. Clean the Oysters thoroughly, put them into a large saucepan with some sea water, the juice of half a lemon, and some grated nutmeg. When the water is on the point of boiling, move the saucepan off the fire, and leave the Oysters in the liquor until the following day. Put the Oysters into stone or earthenware jars, pour over some clarified butter, and, when cold, cover and tie the jars down. Keep them in a cool place. Oysters—continued. Oysters should be kept in a very cold place, and be thoroughly washed before they are opened; they should, according to the French custom, be opened on the deep shell so as to preserve their liquor. It is then advisable, if possible, to lay them on a bed of finely-chopped ice for an hour or so before serving; this improves the flavour greatly, but they must not be left on the ice much longer, for after that time they will begin to lose flavour, instead of gaining it. To open an Oyster it should be held in the folds of a cloth, in the palm of the hand, or in a hollow cut out of a piece of wood (see Fig. 88); an Oyster-knife can then be inserted between the shells with a see-saw motion, forcing it inwards and cutting the Oyster away from the flat shell. When the knife has done its work the flat shell can be removed. In most cases it is usual to remove the beards or “ fringes ” of the oysters before using them for cooking; but that is not an absolute necessity, although advisable. After cutting the body loose from the deep shell, they are then ready to serve or use as may be required. Aspic of Oysters.—(1) Put three or four dozen large Oysters into a stewpan with sufficient white wine, such as sherry or vin de grave, to cover them, and let them cook gently until firm. Drain, trim, put them into a basin, and then season with a dust of salt and the juice of a lemon squeezed over them. Set a mould in a box or tin of powdered ice and pour in a thin layer of warmed jelly. Let this set, and then lay Oysters symmetrically over it to within Jin. of the edge all round. Pour over sufficient aspic to cover these, allow it to set, and then repeat the layer of Oysters until the mould is quite full, taking care that the aspic shall cover the last layer of Oysters with- out overflowing. Allow this to stand for an hour in the ice, and then dip the mould into hot water, removing quickly, and turn out on to a cold dish. Garnish round with chopped aspic jelly (see Fig. SO), or ornament with croutons of aspic in two or three colours of brown, red, and yellow. Serve with a rich mayonnaise sauce. (2) Partially boil some Oysters in their own liquor, and beard them. Put a good-sized lump of butter in a stew- pan with a few shallots, truffles, sweet herbs, and a small quantity of parsley, all finely chopped, toss them for a few minutes over the fire, then put in the Oysters, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When sufficiently stewed, take the Oyster mixture off the fire and leave until cold. Coat a mould with liquid aspic jelly, leave it until set, then fill it up with the Oysters and a few crayfish, cover the whole with more liquid jelly, and set the mould on ice. When set, turn the jelly on to a dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or a fancy dish-paper, garnish with parsley and crayfish claws, and serve. This is a very pretty luncheon dish. Attelettes of Oysters.—Beard some large Oysters. Take a sweetbread, divide it into as many pieces as there are Oysters, and let the pieces be about the same size as them. Cut some rashers of bacon into the same number of pieces,