14 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Scc., referred to, see under their special heads. N utmegs—continued. and it is rarely ever used except for sweet dishes. See Mace. Candied Nutmegs.—Soak the Nutmegs to be candied in water, and afterwards lay them in an earthenware pan. Boil Hlb. of powdered white sugar, ^ gill of rose-water, and a very little gum Arabic, to candy \see Sugar-boiling), and pour it over the Nutmegs. Set the pan in a warm place, cover it closely, let it stand for three weeks, and the Nutmegs will be like rock candy. Extract of Nutmegs.—Put a couple of dozen Nutmegs into a mortar, pound them well, or they may be grated if more convenient, and put them into a bottle with 1 pint of strong gin. Shake the bottle frequently for a month or so; then strain off the liquor into smaller bottles, and it will be ready for use. Nutmeg Flavouring.—(1) Put 1 drachm of Nutmeg oil and \oz. of powdered mace into 1 pint of spirits of wine, and let it macerate for about twelve hours. Pass the liquor through filtering-paper, put it into bottles, and it is then ready for use. (2) Mix 2 drachms of oil of Nutmeg and loz. of finely- powdered sugar with 2 pints of alcohol, and in a few days strain the liquor for use. Nutmeg Lozenges.—Put 21b. of caster sugar on a marble slab, make a cavity in the centre, and pour in sufficient dissolved gum Arabic or gum dragon to make it into a paste. (The gum is generally dissolved in the proportion of 2£lb. of gum Arabic to '2-h pints of water, or loz. of i gum dragon in i pint of water). Mix in Joz. of oil of Nutmeg, and roll out the paste on the slab until it is about gin. in thickness. Dust it, as well as the slab, with starch powder and sugar, rubbing them well over the surface with the palm of the hand. Cut out the lozenges with a tin cutter, and put them on trays in a cool oven or on the stove to dry. When dry, they are ready for use. Surprise Nutmegs. Pour \ gill of cold water on 1 break- fast-cupful of the best sugar, add J saltspoonful of cream of tartar, and let it stand for a short time, then stir it well, put it in a pan over a moderate fire, and let it boil till a little of it tried in cold water forms a thin jelly. Take it off' the fire then, and let it stand for a few minutes, keep- ing the pan closely covered. Beat it to a smooth cream with a wooden spoon. Take l breakfast-cupful of grated or pounded hickory nuts with a little powdered cinnamon, grated Nutmeg, and 1 or 2 drops of clove oil mixed with N utmegs—continued. them, and work these into the creamed syrup. Get some Nutmegs, with the mace on them whole, remove them from the mace, taking great care not to break it more than is necessary, and fill the mace with the mixture. OATCAKES.—See Oatmeal. OATMEAL (Fr. Gruau d’avoine ; Ger. Hafermehl: Ital. Farina di vena; Sp. Harina de avena).—“ A Scotchman is never in greater peril,” says a contemporary, “than when the subject of Oatmeal gets uppermost. It is the condiment which, in a little water, makes the drink of the frugal harvester; as porridge, or in some kindred form, it is his breakfast; as cake, it forms with cheese his dinner; and on high days and holidays, made into fancy dishes, it is the material wherewith he feasts his family, and regales himself and friends.” That Oatmeal is exceedingly nutritious is shown by Letheby, who gives the following as its analysis : Nitrogenous matter Carbo-hydrates Fatty matter Saline matter Water 12-6 638 56 30 150 100 Oatmeal is the grain of the oat (Avena sativa) deprived of the skin, kiln-dried, and afterwards ground in a mill. It is remarkably rich in oily or fatty matter, and as a flesh-former it holds a high rank. There are three kinds of Oatmeal, coarse, fine, and groats, the latter being unground, and the coarse or fine depending upon the grinding. In England, Oatmeal has unfortunately ac- quired rather a bad name through adulterations Several inferior starches, such as rice and maize, are added; and sometimes whitening, plaster of Paris, and ground bones are utilised, to make up the bulk. 3roch.au.—This Scottish dish is prepared with Oatmeal known as medium ground. Put 1 pint of water into a saucepan on the fire, bring it to the boil, add 1 dessert- spoonful of the Oatmeal, mix in 1 teacupful of cream to- gether with sufficient salt to taste, and boil for about an hour. Have ready some cups or small basins, pour in the mixture, stir in a little golden syrup, or if preferred thin slices of cheese, and serve immediately. Paris.—See Oatmeal Cakes. Oatmeal Biscuits.—Mix with lib. of medium Oatmeal |lb. of flour and l table-spoonful of baking-powder; mb in lib. of butter, and when quite smooth stir in sufficient warm milk to knead the whole into a paste; turn it on to a table