61 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <bc., referred to, see under their special heads. Ox-Palates—continued. scrape off the hard skin with ease. Put them into another saucepan with Jgall. of stock, and add a stick of celery, one onion, one carrot cut up small, a few sprigs of parsley, a blade of mace, six cloves, a clove of garlic, six pepper- corns, and salt to taste. Put the pan on the fire and boil gently for four hours, when the palates should be quite done. Take out the palates, press them between two dishes, and when they are cold cut them up into pieces 2in. wide and 3in. long. Put a layer of quenelle forcemeat mixed with a little fine herbs over the palates, roll each up in a piece of well-buttered paper, put them into a saute-pan, and cook for about twenty minutes in a little of the liquor in which the palates were cooked. When they are done, take them out, remove the paper, roll them hi some half-glaze, and put them in the centre of a dish in the form of a cone, with sautes potatoes round them (see Fig. 79) and the strained liquor poured over the whole. Ox-Palates au Gratin. Put five Ox-palates into a basin of boiling water, and keep them there until the skin comes off easily by scraping with a knife. Dip them into water to freshen them, put them into a saucepan with a little white wine, and add a few peppercorns and cloves, salt to taste, a carrot and onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour over sufficient water to cover the whole, put the pan on the fire, and boil for five hours or so. Cut four dozen mushrooms into slices. Put a chopped onion into a sauce- pan with a little butter, cook it gently, stirring continually, but do not let it take colour; put in the mushrooms, and when their moisture has evaporated, add a clove of garlic, with a little cayenne and salt to taste. Pour in a few table- spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, boil up once, and remove the pan from the fire. When the palates are done, take them out, drain, wipe them well with a cloth, cut them into small pieces of an oblong shape, sprinkle with salt and pepper, mix them into the sauce mixture, and add a little finely-chopped parsley. Put the palates with the sauce into a deep dish, cover with breadcrumbs, pour over a little warmed butter, put the dish in the oven, and cook for twenty minutes. Take out the dish, and the palates are ready to be served. Ox-Palates a la Lyonnaise. -Put two Ox-palates into a saucepan of boiling water and blanch them. Trim them, put them on a gridiron over a quick lire, and cook for a minute; take off the skin, and put them in a saucepan with the following thickening: Put lib. of clarified butter into a saucepan, and when it has melted stir in 111), of flour; then pour in the required quantity of stock to make the sauce. Set the pan containing the palates on the fire and cook them until done; take them out, cut them into small pieces, mix them up with a puree of onions, and they are ready for use. Ox-Palates a la Ravigote.—Put four Ox-palates in a basin, cover with warm water, and leave them until well disgorged; then put them in a stewpan with fresh water, and place them over the fire until they begin to harden. Plunge the palates into cold water and scrape the skin off with a knife. If the skin does not come off easily, they should be left over the fire a little longer. When well scraped, put the palates in a stewpan with white stock to cover, and boil them until very tender. Lay the palates on a plate with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of their cooking- liquor, cover with another plate, and leave them until quite cold. Put a chopped shallot in a saucepan with loz. of butter, stir it over a slow fire for five minutes, then pour in lqt. of white veal stock : stir and boil it until reduced to the consistency of thick cream, then move it to the side and mix in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs> seasoning to taste with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of chopped parsley. Divide each palate into three pieces, trim them to an oval shape, dip them one at a time in the sauce, and lay them on a plate until cold. Peel and boil 31b. or 411). of potatoes, and when soft drain them and mash them with a little milk or butter; press them into a border mould and stand this in a bain-marie. Roll the palates into beaten egg, breadcrumb them well, roll them in the egg again, and afterwards in the bread- crumbs, giving them a good coating. Put a large lump of Ox-Palates—continued. lard into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the palates and fry them until nicely browned on both sides. Turn the border of mashed potatoes on to a hot dish, arrange the palates on it in a crown, pour a ravigote sauce round them, and serve. Ox-Palates a la Vivandiere.—Disgorge four Ox-palates, put them in a stewpan of water, and place them over the fire until they begin to harden; then put them in cold water and scrape off all the skin. Foil them in white stock until tender, put them on a plate with 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of the stock, cover with another plate, and leave them until cold. Put a chopped shallot in a sauce- pan with a small lump of butter, stir it over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in lqt. of bechamel sauce. Boil and stir the sauce until of a creamy thickness, then move it to the side of the fire and stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs ; season to taste with salt and pepper and a small quantity of finely-chopped parsley. Divide each palate into three pieces, trim each piece to an oval shape, dip them well in the sauce, and lay them on a plate until cold. Peel and finely chop three moderate-sized onions, put them in a stewpan with loz. of butter, and fry until lightly browned. Drain the butter off the onions, and pour over them 1 wineglassful of port wine and a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut. Stir over the fire until the glaze has melted, then pour in 14 breakfast-cupfuls of brown sauce and barely 1 breakfast-cupful of broth. Boil and stir the sauce until the thickness of cream, then move it off the fire and mix with it 1 teaspoonful of sugar and a small quantity of cayenne pepper. Roll the palates in beaten eggs, and breadcrumbs, repeating the operation twice. Put a large lump of lard or clarified fat into a flat stewpan, place it over the fire until blue smoke rises, then put in the palates and fry them until nicely browned. When the palates are taken out of the fat, place them on a sheet of kitchen-paper for a minute to drain. Arrange the palates in a circle on a hot dish, pour the sauce round them, put a bunch of fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Ox-Palates eii Papillote. -Prepare the palates by first dis- gorging, then blanching them to harden, and scrajie off the skin. When done, put them in a saucepan with white stock, and boil for three or four hours. When very tender, put the palates on a dish, with a few spoonfuls of their cooking-liquor, put another dish over them, and leave them until cold. Put about 4 teacupful of salad-oil in a stew- pan with a chopped moderate-sized onion, stir it over a brisk fire for a few minutes, drain off the oil, pour in 4 breakfast-cupfuls of white sauce, and add two chopped mush- rooms and 1 scant table-spoonful of chopped parsley ; stir the sauce and boil it for seven or eight minutes. Cut each palate into three pieces, which trim to an oval shape ; put them into the sauce, and boil for a few minutes longer, seasoning with a small quantity of grated nutmeg. Turn file palates and sauce on to a dish, and leave them until cold. Cut as many pieces of white paper to the shape of hearts as there are pieces of palates, making them large enough to fold over them. Spread some of the cold sauce over the papers, put the pieces of palate on them, mask that also with some of the sauce, and twist the papers up. Lay them on a gridiron, and broil over a clear but not too fierce a fire for ten minutes, turning them when done on one side. Arrange the palates, leaving them in the papers, in a circle on a hot dish over which has been spread a folded napkin or an ornamental dish-paper, garnish with a group of fried parsley in the centre, and serve with a sauce- boatful of Italian sauce. Ox-Palate Croquettes. -Put three Ox-palates into a sauce- pan with sufficient water to cover, and boil over a mode- rate fire until done. Take them out, trim, scrape, and cut them into quarters. Put them into another saucepan with two heads of cloves, a clove of garlic, a little thyme and bay-leaves, salt and pepper to taste, and sufficient stock to cover, and simmer gently for thirty minutes ; then take out the quarters of palates, put I teaspoonful of beef forcemeat on each, roll them up, and dip into a thin paste made with a little Hour, 1 table-spoonful of olive oil, and 4 pint of