108 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes% Utensils, Sauces, dc.y referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. pieces and the minion fillets like pears, ‘2in. long. Cut a block of bread without any crust, 8in. long, 3in. high, and liin. wide. Put a thin slice of fat bacon over it. Contise the fourteen pieces of fillets with some round slices of truffles, lay the fillets across the bread, and cover them with another thin slice of fat bacon. Roast the three Partridges and the whole Partridge. When cooked, leave them till cool; then take the skin and fat off', chop the meat, put it in a mortar, and pound it, adding grad- ually at the same time some game broth that has been reduced with double the quantity of veloute sauce. Pass the puree through a fine hair sieve, and put it in a bain-marie pan. Put the piece of bread with the fillets on in a saute pan, and put it in the oven till the fillets are done. Boil fourteen plovers’ eggs. Prepare a rice croustade on a dish, pour a little more than half of the puree in the croustade, put the contised fillets and plover’s eggs alternately round the top of it, turn the remainder of the puree in the centre, arrange the ten small fillets on the top, the points to the centre, put a small truffle in the middle, and serve. Puree of Partridge with Poached Eggs.—The following- dish can he made with the remains of cold roast Partridges. Cut the meat up, put it in a mortar with 3 table-spoon- fuls of cooked rice, and pound; stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of brown sauce, then pass it through a fine hair sieve. Put the puree into a saucepan with a piece of fresh butter, a little glaze, and seasoning to taste; stir it over a slow fire till thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil. Turn the purde on to a hot dish, pour over it some gravy that has been made with the bones of the Partridges, garnish round with eight or ten poached eggs, and serve. Roasted Partridges.—(1) Pluck the Partridges, draw and trass them, and fasten some thin slices of fat bacon round them. Fix the birds on a spit, put them before a sharp clear fire, and roast for fifteen minutes. Five minutes before dishing, take the bacon off, sprinkle a little salt over the birds, and brown them. Put the Partridges on a hot dish, and serve them with a sauceboatful of brown gravy. (2) Dress and prepare a pair of Partridges, put them before the fire, or in a very hot oven, and brown them quickly; then season them with salt and pepper, baste with a little butter, and allow them to cook for about half an hour. In the meantime, fry 1 pint of coarse breadcrumbs brown in a frying-pan, taking care to have the fat smoking hot; when they are brown, [ take them up with a skimmer, and lay them on brown | paper to free them from grease. Serve the roasted Par- Fig. 124. Baiided Partridge. tridges on the fried breadcrumbs. If gravy is desired, make it from the drippings in the pan. Garnish round with potato croquettes. (3) Prepare the birds, and truss them for roasting, fasten- ing a slice of bacon over the breast (see Fig. 124); fix them on a spit, and roast before a clear but not too fierce fire. Five minutes before taking the Partridges up, remove the bacon, so that they may brown slightly. Put l pint of milk into a saucepan with a small onion stuck with three cloves and half a blade of mace; let the milk simmer at the side of the fire for a-quarter-of-an-liour, then strain it, return it to the saucepan with f breakfast-cupful of Partridges—continued. very fine breadcrumbs, season with salt and pepper, and keep it at the side of the fire until the birds are ready. Also prepare the following gravy: Put a finely-chopped onion in a stewpan with a small lump of butter, and fry it until a dark brown; then put in a small quantity of minced lean ham, two or three sprigs of thyme and parsley, and a few drops of Worcestershire sauce, and boil for ten minutes, then strain. When the birds are cooked, put them on a hot dish, and serve with the sauce and gravy in sauceboats. (4) Clean and truss the Partridges, chop the livers with a little butter, season them with salt and pepper, and stuff the Partridges with them. Bind some sheets of buttered paper round the Partridges, fix them on a spit, and roast them in front of a clear fire. Mix some breadcrumbs with a little butter, chopped parsley, chives, shallots, and a little salt, black pepper, and nutmeg. When three-parts done, take the birds off the spit, slightly raise each joint with a knife, and add the above forcemeat; put the birds in a stewpan with a little stock and champagne mixed in equal quantities, stand the stewpan over a slow fire without the lid on, and let the liquor simmer till reduced. Put the Partridges on a hot dish, squeeze a little lemon- juice over, pour the sauce round, and serve. (5) Clean a Partridge, and make a stuffing with its liver, some grated ham, minced parsley and chives, and season with salt. Stuff the Partridge with the forcemeat, put a slice of bacon round it, wrap it in a sheet of buttered paper, fix it on a spit, and roast it before a clear fire, basting occasionally. When cooked, remove the paper and bacon from the bird, pour a little rich gravy round it, and serve. Roasted Partridges a la Montglas.—Roast three young Partridges, and cut out the whole of the breast of each in a square piece, so as to leave a square aperture ; clean away from the interior all the spongy substance, in order to put a salpicon inside the breasts of the birds. Cut Fig. 125. Roasted Partridge a la Montglas. into very small dice the pieces from the breasts of the birds and some cooked mushrooms and tongue, adding if convenient a few truffles also cut in dice. Mix a little game glaze with some reduced Spanish sauce, add it to the dice, season well, and fill the aperture in the birds with it; brush them over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten yolk of egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, then brash them over with warmed butter, and breadcrumb them again; put them on a baking-disli and roast in a hot oven. Mix a little game glaze in a brown sauce, put the Partridges on a hot dish (see Fig. 125), and serve with the sauce. Roasted Partridge a la Perigord.—Pluck, singe, and draw three Partridges. Put 4oz. of scraped fat bacon in a stewpan with two bay-leaves, a blade of mace, and two or three cloves, and place over the fire until boiling; then take out the bay-leaves, cloves, and mace. Finely chop three large truffles, put them in with the fat, also put in ten sliced truffles, pour in lqt. of white sauce, and boil it until thickly reduced, keeping it well stirred at the same time. Move the stewpan to the side of the fire, stir in quickly the beaten yolks of two eggs, and pour it on a plate. When the truffle mixture is cold, stuff the Par- tridges with it, then hang them up and leave them for