THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 112 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <fcc., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—continued. produced in this or any other country. Its adaptation to the uses of the table must depend in a great measure upon the ingenuity of the operator, and the instructions hereunder given, being of a typical character, should suggest innumerable others. The Pastry-cook requires utensils that are especially adapted to the purposes for which he intends to use them. These, however, may be very simple, consisting principally of a Paste-board, rolling-pin, and basin for mixing; but an artistic Pastry-cook could not be expected to turn out any very great results with such utensils only: many others would be required for high class work, and these will be described further on. Pastes.—In making Paste much confusion has arisen in the minds of domestic Pastry- makers, owing to the varia- tions and modifications of ingredients, and modes of mixing adopted by individual cooks; the names given to Pastes being also somewhat misleading. As a matter of fact, by disregarding variations Pastry-making is exceedingly simple. There are two kinds of Pastry, from which all others take their origin; these are known as Puff Paste and Short-Paste, the difference between them being not so much the question of ingredients as the mode of mixing. All Pastes consist more or less of flour, water or milk- and-water, and greasy matter of some kind; any sort of flour may be used, provided it is of a starchy character; but as a rule the best white wheat-flour is used for fine Pastry; it should be dried, and passed through a sieve Fig. 127. Flour-sieve (Mathews and Son). Fig. 128. Egg-bowl. (see Fig. 127) to remove lumps and lighten it. Eggs mixed with milk or milk-and-water, or sour milk, may be used to moisten; the latter requires an antacid with the flour. In such a case this would answer as well as, and instead of, baking-powder or yeast. A very superior quality flour, called pastry whites, should alone be used for best Pastry ; commoner kinds being made from what is called seconds or household flour. Eggs when used should be the very Fig. 129. Egg-whisk (Mathews and Son). freshest, and are better if well beaten in a large bowl (see Fig. 128), with a strong wire whisk (see Fig. 129). The greasy matter may consist of a variety of kinds: fresh butter, suet, lard, dripping, &c. In every case it should be perfectly pure, clean, and fresh. Puff Paste differs from Short-Paste in one essential particular, and that is the mode in which the fatty matter is blended with the flour. The best Puff Paste is made by Paste and Pastry—continued. rolling in the butter after the flour-and-water dough is made. Short-Paste is made by working the fatty matter into the flour before making it into dough. Accepting Fig. 130. Making Puff Paste—Bay or Well. these two kinds as the types from which numerous varieties spring, they shall be described separately. Puff Paste.—By the French cook this is styled Feuille- tage, and is prepared as follows : Weigh out the flour, best Vienna for choice, previously dried and shaken through a sieve, and use an equal amount of best fresh butter. In the summer keep this butter on the ice till wanted; in winter knead it in a cloth to make it supple. Then spread the flour on a table or marble Paste-slab; make a bay or well in the centre (see Fig. 130). Into this bay put a little salt, and gradually pour in water whilst the flour is worked in by a circular motion of two fingers round and round the inside of the well until sufficient moisture has been added to work the remainder of the flour into a firm pliant dough. If this is well and correctly made it will not stick either to the table or to the hands. Cover the Paste with a cloth, and let it stand for a few minutes to settle, but first be quite sure that the Paste is stiff, as it would be disadvantageous to work in more flour or water, as the case might require, after the dough has settled. In the course of ten minutes or a-quarter-of- an-hour the dough will be ready to work. Sprinkle the slab with flour by means of a dredger (see Fig. 131), Fig. 132. Plain Rolling-pin (Mathews and Son). which should contain very dry flour only, or the per- forations in the lid will get blocked; place the Paste on this, and roll it out with a rolling-pin, which may be either plain (see Fig. 132), or fitted with an axle and two handles (see Fig. 133), so that the hands remain quiet in working—either answers admirably. The one with the handles, which is sometimes preferred, permits Fig. 133. Revolving Rolling-pin. the operator to bear heavily on the Paste, but this is not always an advantage. Roll out the Paste to a square, not more than j-in. thick. Roll out the butter also, on a slab, to a square shape, and lay