24 TEE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respectinj Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, Sic., referred to, see under their special heads. Onions—continued. Onions—continued. being surmounted by a cluster of small green bulbs instead of bearing flowers and seed. These bulbs are very similar to small Onions, and are said to be excel- lent in pickles, for which their diminutive size is a great recommendation.” The Welsh Onion, better known as the Rock Onion or Stone Leek, is not much used for culinary purposes. There are over twenty sorts of Onions that may be considered distinct, and forms of one or other of these are named as new kinds by growers almost indefinitely. The principal varieties are here enumerated. Brown Globe, medium size, skin dark reddish-brown; Deep Blood Red (see Fig. 29), medium-size, flattened, strong- flavoured, skin red ; Deptford, solid, flesh tinged red, skin dark reddish-brown; Early White Naples (see Fig. 30), small: Flat Tripoli, large, mild, flesh reddish ; Giant White Tripoli, large, flattened, skin silvery white ; Globe Tripoli, mild; James’s Keeping (see Fig. 31), one of the best and longest-keeping; Lisbon, useful for spring salads; Naples Fig. 35. White Spanish Onions. Giant Rocca (see Fig. 32), large, of good quality; Queen (see Fig. 33), small and very early, skin white; Silver- skin, useful for pickling; Trebons (see Fig. 34), very large, mild and excellent in quality; True-bladed, small, much used for pickling; Wethersfield Red, large, perhaps the best of all the red-skinned varieties; White Globe, medium size, much esteemed; White Spanish (see Fig. 35), Fig. 36. Yellow Danvers Onion. large, solid, of first rate quality, skin pale straw-colour; Yellow Danvers (see Fig. 36), medium size, very firm, of fine quality throughout. Baked Onions.—Put six large Onions into a saucepan of water or milk and water in equal proportions, sprinkle over salt .and pepper, and boil until tender. When they are done so that they can he easily mashed, work them up with butter into a paste, cover with breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate oven. Or if preferred, they may be boiled whole, put into a baking-dish, covered with butter and breadcrumbs, and then baked. Baked Spanish Onions.—Wash some Onions, but do not remove their skins; put them in a saucepan of slightly- salted water, and boil for an hour, changing the water twice and adding the fresh water when it is boiling. Take them out, drain them, dry on a cloth, roll each one separately round with a piece of buttered tissue paper, and bake for an hour or so in a slow oven. Then remove the peel, and put them in a deep dish in the oven to brown, basting with butter. When done (they will take about fifteen minutes), put them in a vegetable-dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper, pour over some melted butter, and serve. Baked Stuffed Onions.—Select large Onions as nearly one size .as possible; peel them, put them in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil for fifteen minutes; then drain, and scoop out a small quantity from the inside of each. Have ready prepared sufficient highly-seasoned beef forcemeat that has been mixed with a beaten egg to bind it, stuff' the Onions with it, arrange them side by side on a baking- dish, and bake in a brisk oven until nicely browned, bast- ing them occasionally with warmed butter. When cooked, place the Onions on a dish on which has been laid an ornamental dish-paper, and serve while hot. Baked Stuffed Spanish Onions.—Peel six medium-sized Spanish Onions, take out the centres with a vegetable- scoop, parboil them for three minutes, and turn them upside-down on a cloth to drain; when drained, fill the insides with sausage forcemeat. Line the bottom of a saute- pan with a piece of lard-skin and one carrot and Onion both cut up, lay the Onions on top, moisten with 4 pint of broth, and cover with buttered paper ; put it in the oven to glaze for forty minutes, taking care to baste frequently.