44 THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <Sec., referred to, see under their special heads. Oranges—continued. cupful of boiling water to dissolve it. Turn it into a basin with the juice of ten large Oranges, and add 2 breakfast - cupfuls of sugar and 3 breakfast-cupfuls of water. Mix well, and when quite cold it is ready for use. The juice of a lemon may be added if the Oranges are too sweet. (2) Put 3 breakfast-cupfuls of sugar into a saucepan with 3 pints of water, and boil for thirty minutes; add the strained juice of twenty large Oranges, strain it, pour it into a freezer, and it is then ready. (3) Take two lemons and nine Oranges, wipe them quite clean, grate the yellow rinds, and then squeeze the juice on to the grated rinds. Make a syrup of lqt. of water and 1 fll). of sugar, and mix it with the juice and grated rinds. Strain it through a hair sieve, pour it into a freezer, and freeze. (4) Squeeze one lemon and six Oranges, strain the juice, and add to it a small quantity of grated Orange-rind. Make a thick syrup of 141b. of loaf sugar and pour it hot over the Orange-juice and peel, then add sufficient boiling water to make the quantity of sherbet 3qts. Stand it in ice-water to cool, and then put it in the freezer. Beat the whites of two small eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them well into the sherbet while it is freezing. When frozen quite hard, re-pack with ice, and cover till required for use. Orange Shrub.—Boil 101b. of loaf sugar in 2galls. of water, skim it well, and when the sugar is quite dissolved put it into a tub; let it cool, and when quite cold pour it into a barrel; add to it 3qts. of Jamaica rum, Ingalls, of strained bitter Orange-juice, and the beaten white of an egg. Let it stand for a week, then bottle it. Orange Snow.—Soak loz. of gelatine in h pint of cold water for four hours, then add to it the grated rind of half a lemon, the grated rind of an Orange, the strained juice of one lemon and four Oranges, and 41b. of powdered white sugar; stir well together and let the mixture stand for an hour. Add 1 pint of boiling water, and continue Stirling till clear; then strain it through a coarse cloth and wring it thoroughly. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth, and when the liquid is quite cool whisk them into it by degrees, and continue whisking till quite thick and white. Fig. 59. Orange Snow. Wet the inside of a mould with cold water, and pour the snow into it. Let it stand in a cool place for eight hours at least before turning it out, then pile it up on a glass dish, and garnish round with sweet biscuits. See Fig. 59. Orange Souffle.—Mix 1 table-spoonful of flour smoothly into 1 pint of cream, add to it 2 table-spoonfuls of rose- water, and put it over the fire hi a saucepan with a little thinly-pared Orange-peel and a little cinnamon; stir till it boils, then take it from the fire. Strain, and add suffi- cient powdered white sugar to sweeten it. Let it stand till cold, and then mix with it 2 table-spoonfuls of mar- malade and six eggs beaten well with 1 wineglassful of brandy. Pour it into a well-buttered mould, stand it in a saucepan of boiling water, and let it boil for an-hour-and-a-quarter without any cover over it. Orange Sponge.—(1) Stir loz. of isinglass in 1 pint of boil- ing water until dissolved, then strain and leave it until cold. Strain the juice from six large Oranges and one Oranges—continued. lemon, mix it with the isinglass, and add the beaten whites of four eggs and Jib. of caster sugar. Whisk the whole until it looks like a sponge, then put it into a mould and keep it in a cool temperature for several hours. When ready, turn the sponge on to a glass or fancy dish, and serve. (2) Put loz. of gelatine in a stewpan with 1 pint of water, and place it on the fire until dissolved. Rub 4oz. of loaf sugar over the rinds of two Oranges, and put it in with the gelatine; squeeze in the juice of the Oranges, and when the sugar has dissolved strain the jelly into a basin. Leave it until half cold, then beat it with an egg-whisk until a thick froth. Pour the mixture into a mould, and keep it on ice or in a cool temperature until quite set. When ready to serve, turn the sponge on to a glass dish. Orange Sugar.—Take a large piece of loaf sugar, and with it grate the yellow rinds off some good Oranges, being careful to grate only the yellow part, without any' of the white. As the surface of the sugar becomes coloured with the rind, scrape it off, and continue grating rind and scrap- ing off' the coloured sugar till as much sugar is scraped off as required. Then put it in a stove or lay it at the mouth of an oven and let it dry. When perfectly diy, sift it through a fine sieve. Orange-Sugar Sand.—Sift some granulated sugar in order to free the granules from sugar dust, and then put it into a pan with a little double distilled Orange-flower water ; rub the colouring evenly through it with both hands, and let it dry slowly in a drying-oven, rubbing it occasionally between the hands, and bottling when quite dry. Another way of making it is to nib lump sugar on the rind of an Orange, and scrape it off as it turns yellow; or candied Orange-blossoms may be pounded and mixed with powdered loaf sugar. The sugar must be bottled closely, whichever method is adopted. Orange Syrup.—(1) Squeeze out the juice from some ripe sweet Oranges, put it into a saucepan, and add 1 Alb. of sugar to each pint of juice. Boil slowly, skimming frequently. Remove it from the fire when done, let it cool, and pour into bottles for future use. It gives a line flavour to custards, and a little of it mixed in melted butter makes an excellent sauce for puddings. (2) Peel nine bitter and three sweet Oranges, putting the peel into a saucepan with 14 pints of water as fast as it is taken off, and boil for fifteen minutes. Strain the liquor into another saucepan, add 24 lb. of loaf sugar, and boil gently for half-an-hour, skimming frequently. Squeeze out the juice from the Oranges, adding a little water to make it up to H- pints, pour this into the sugar, and boil gently for forty-five minutes, skimming frequently. When it is as thick as honey, it is done, and ready for use. (3) Rub off the zest rind (yellow skin) of four bitter Oranges on lumps of sugar, scrape it off the sugar, and put it into a pan containing lib. of sugar made into syrup at 32deg. (sec Syrups). Let it remain for six hours, then add 1 breakfast-cupful of Orange-juice, as well as the juice of two lemons. Stir well, pour it into bottles, cork them down tightly, fasten with wire, stand them in a saucepan of cold water, and boil gently for six minutes. Take them out, and when cold seal the corks and put them in a cold cellar in a leaning position until wanted. Orange Tart.—(1) Warm, but not oil, 6oz. of butter, and beat it well together with 6oz. of caster sugar; then mix in the beaten yolks of six eggs. Butter a shallow pie-disli and line it with puff paste. Cut 6oz. of candied Orange-peel into thin slices, and lay them on the paste. Pour in the beaten mixture, cover with a flat of pull paste, trim it off neatly at the edges, moisten them, and pinch them together. Put the tart in a quick oven, and bake it for an hour, or a little longer. When cooked, sift caster sugar over the top of the tart, and serve. (2) Put the grated rinds of two Seville Oranges into a deep saucepan, squeeze in the juice, and add yb. of butter and nine eggs slightly beaten. Put the pan over the fire and stir continually until the mixture is of the consistence of melted cheese; take the pan off the fire, and beat the