18 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, (be., referred to, see under their special heads. Okra—continued. Okras Sautes a la Creole.—Prepare twenty-four Okras as for Boiled Okras. Place in a sautd-pan loz. of butter, one minced medium-sized onion, and a minced medium-sized green pepper; put the pan on the stove for six minutes until the contents are of a golden colour, and add two raw peeled tomatoes cut into pieces, 3 table-spoonfuls of Spanish sauce, a pinch of salt, J pinch of pepper, and one crushed clove of garlic. Put in the Okras, cover with the lid, and cook slowly for fifteen minutes. Turn out on to a hot, deep dish, sprinkle over 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and seive. Okra Soup.—(1) Cut into slices Jib. of pork, put it into a frying-pan, fry gently for a few minutes, and add a sliced onion and lqt. of green Okra-pods cut into small pieces. Put the lid on the pan and fry the Okras for thirty minutes. In the meantime cut all the meat from a cold roast fowl, put the bones in a saucepan with lqt. of water, and boil. Squeeze out all the pork-fat from the Okras and onion, and place these latter in the saucepan with the bones. Put 3 table-spoonfuls of flour into the pan with the pork-fat, and when it is a rich brown add it to the bones in the saucepan Place the cover over the pot and simmer the whole gently for three hours. Strain through a fine sieve into another saucepan, pour in 2qts. of stock, and add the fowl-meat cut in pieces and salt and pepper to taste. Simmer gently for twenty minutes, turn it out on to a dish, and serve with boiled lice. (2) Put Jib. of fat ham or bacon into a frying-pan and fry it, taking care not to let it burn. Cut 21b. of veal into small pieces, roll them well in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, fry them brown in the ham or bacon-fat, and place them in a saucepan. Put two sliced onions and a slice each of carrot and turnip into the pan with the fat, fry gently, put them into the saucepan with the veal, and add 1 pint of green Okras cut into small pieces, \ pint of shell beans, four sticks of celery, and lgall. of water. Place the pan at the side of the fire and simmer gently for two hours, then add two ripe tomatoes, 1 pint each of green peas and green corn cut from the cob, and salt and pepper to taste; simmer for thirty minutes longer, and serve. If the Okras used are dried, half the quantity will be quite sufficient. (3) Cut a peck of Okra-pods into very thin slices, not exceeding Jin. thick, but thinner if possible. In selecting the pods, choose those from 2in. to 3in. in length: they can be used as long as they remain tender, which can be ascertained by snapping off the ends; if too old they will only bend. Put a large piece of shin of beef into a stockpot or a digester with 2Jgalls. of water and a little salt. Boil for a few minutes, skim well, add the Okras, and about J peck of tomatoes, peeled and cut into pieces. The grains from three tender ears of green corn and \ pint of Lima beans may be added if desired, but they are not altogether neces- sary, as the excellency of the soup depends upon the cooking, for if not boiled enough it M ill have a very inferior flavour. An iron pot or saucepan should never be used, as it will turn the soup black instead of a green tinted with the orange of the tomatoes. When it has boiled briskly for five hours, being frequently stirred, it may be poured into the soup-tureen and served, as by that time all the meat will have separated from the bone and boiled to rags, and the soup will be of the consistence of thick porridge. (4) Cut up two chickens (either old or young may be used), put them in a saucepan with one small chopped onion, two or three slices of pickled pork, and a lump of lard, and fry them slightly. Put in with the chicken eighteen Okras, J peck of sliced tomatoes, and salt and pepper ; pour in 3qts. of boiling water, and boil it gently for thirty minutes. When ready to serve, turn the soup into a soup-tureen. Scalloped Okras and Tomatoes.—Cut lqt. of Okras and 1 pint of peeled tomatoes into slices as for Stewed Okras with Tomatoes, and after they have stewed for a-quarter- of-an-hour add 1 table-spoonful of butter and a little pepper, and turn them into a deep dish. Cover with cracker or breadcrumbs, put some small pieces of butter on the top, bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour, and seive. Stewed Okras with Tomatoes. Cut lqt. of Okras into thin slices and put them into a saucepan with 1 pint of peeled and sliced tomatoes. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, Okra—continued. add a little water to prevent them burning, and simmer gently for thirty minutes. When done, mix in 1 table- spoonful of butter, and serve on a dish. OLIO.—A word taken from the Spanish olla, sig- nifying an earthenware pot, and hence the stew made in it, of which the following is a good example: Clean a couple of young rabbits and partially boil them ; next drain and cut the meat into small pieces about lin. square. Put them into a stewpan with twenty-four oysters, about 3 breakfast-cupfuls of clear rich gravy, three blades of mace, a moderate-sized nutmeg cut into small pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, and salt and pepper in moderate quantities. Stew gently until the meat is quite tender, then take it out with the oysters and strain the gravy.. Put Jib. of butter and 2 heaped table-spoonfuls of flour into a stewpan, stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until mixed, then pour in the strained gravy, and add a chopped boned anchovy and 1 wineglassful of white vine. Continue stirring the whole over the fire until boiling, then put in the meat and oysters, and warm them up again. When ready, turn the Olio on to a hot dish, garnish with quarters of lemons, fried parsley, and fried oysters, and serve. OLIVES (Fr. Olives; Ger. Oliven; Ital. Ulive; Sp. Olivas).—The fruit of the Olive-tree (Olea europcea), which is extensively cultivated in Italy, Spain, and the South of France. The unripe fruit is pickled in brine, and served at table to cleanse and prepare the palate for choice wines; the ripe fruit yields an excellent oil, which is highly valued for culinary purposes (sec Salad-oil). Olives are oval in shape with a smooth rind, resembling small green plums, and they grow in massive bunches on the trees (see Fig. 22). In our markets, Italian Olives rank high- est, being large and very fine flavoured ; French Olives are the next best, and Spanish Olives come last. When served at table it is usual to place here and there a few small glass dishes of Olives nice- ly arranged, and sur- rounded with their own liquor. Ingenious cooks have however discovered means of subjecting them to various culinary preparations, as will be seen by the following receipts: Mock Olives.—With the blade of a small sharp penknife loosen and work out the stones of as many green plums as required, put them into a jar over a few vine-leaves or tansy, sprinkle a little fennel-seed amongst them, a good supply of salt, and a little powdered alum ; pour over sufficient boiling oil to cover, and when cold, tie down. A small piece of anchovy or sardine put in the cavity left by the stone, and the fruit put in jars with a good vinegar pickle poured over them, will give the effect of stuffed Olives. Olive-and-Anchovy Butter.—Stone some French Olives, and wash and chop them. Skin and bone an equal quantity of anchovies, chop them also, and mix them with the Olives. Put the mixture in a mortar with half its bulk of fresh