4 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. Nectarines—continued. and leave for a day. Take out the Nectarines, add more sugar to the syrup, boil up again, put in the fruit, and give them a boil also; skim well, cover again, and leave them at the side of the fire or stove until the next day. Take the fruit out, dust over with powdered sugar, leave them for a day longer, then dry them in the hot closet. NEEDLES.—See Larding and Trussing. NEGUS.—This well-known drink was named after its inventor, one Colonel Negus, who lias doubtless con- tributed in a great degree to the happiness of liis fellow creatures by preparing an alcoholic or wine beverage possessing a minimum of intoxicating qualities. There are numerous receipts for its preparation, but the following are authentic: (1) Mix a bottle of port or sherry with twice its bulk of hot water sweetened with Jib. of lump sugar. Flavour this with the juice of a lemon and a grated nutmeg, and let float therein the thin peel of a lemon. Ten drops of essence of ambergris and 1 teaspoonful of essence of vanilla will greatly improve the flavour. (2) Put 2qts. of claret or Iqt. of port wine into a basin, add 1 wineglassful of brandy, two limes cut up into thin slices, 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, two or three cloves, a few cardamoms, and one or two small sticks of cinnamon. Pour over these 1 breakfast- cupful of boiling water, and the Negus is then ready for serving. (3) Thinly pare the rind off a large lemon, and pound in a mortar. Put the pounded rind into a jug with two thinly-sliced lemons and 1 breakfast-cupful of liquid calf’s- foot jelly; add in small equal quantities some pounded mace, cloves, and allspice. Pour lqt. of boiling water over these ingredients, put a plate over the top of the jug, and let the contents infuse for twenty minutes. Heat 1 bottle of white wine, add it to the contents of the jug, sweeten to taste with loaf sugar, and grate in a small nutmeg. Well stir the Negus, and serve. NELSON CAKE.—See Cakes. NELSON PUDDING.—See Fuddings. NERVE-FOOD.—This misleading term is so fre- quently used now that it requires some notice. All foods that are digestible may be classed as Nerve-foods, so also are they foods for all other parts and organs of the human system. There is no food specially adapted for supplying nerves only with nutriment, and those foods for which such a special duty is claimed are therefore miscalled, nor could any special advantage be gained by such a food if it could be found, for the waste by wear and tear of nerve tissue is almost imper- ceptible even under the greatest strain. The nerves are best served, not by special feeding, but by care and attention to the general health of the body. NESSELRODE PUDDING.—This remarkable dish requires special notice. It was invented by Mony, chef to the famous Russian Count Nesselrode, and is con- sidered to be the most perfect of all iced puddings. Gareme pronounced it to be an imitation of a chestnut pudding constructed by himself, but Jules Gouffe has set the minds of cooks at ease on the matter by publishing the receipt given to him by Mony, which runs as follows: Peel forty chestnuts, blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, peel off the second skin, and put them hi a stewpan with lqt. of syrup at 16deg. (see Sugar-boiling) and a stick of vanilla. Simmer gently till the chestnuts are done, then drain and press them through a fine hair sieve. Put the yolks of eight eggs in a stewpan with Jib. of pounded sugar and lqt. of boiled cream; stir over the fire without boiling till the egg begins to thicken. Add the chestnut puree, press the whole through a tammy- Nesselrode Pudding—continued. cloth into a basin, and add 1 gill of maraschino. Stone Jib. of raisins, and wash and pick Jib. of currants ; cook both together in \ gill of syrup at 30deg. and 1 gill of water, then drain, and let them cool. Put a freezing-pot in the ice, pour in the chestnut cream, and work it with the spatula. When it is partly frozen, add 3 gills of whipped cream, and continue working with the spatula until the cream is frozen ; then add the currants and raisins, and put the pudding into an ice mould. Close the mould, and put some butter on the opening to prevent any salt or water from pene- trating inside ; embed the mould in ice and let it remain there for two hours. Make the sauce as follows : Put 3 gills of boiled cream in a stewpan with eight yolks of eggs and Jib. of pounded sugar, stir over the fire without boiling till the egg begins to thicken, then take it off the fire and stir for three minutes more. Strain the custard through a tammy-cloth and add J gill of maraschino. Put the sauce on the ice until it is very cold, without freezing. Turn the pudding out of the mould on to a napkin on a dish, and serve with the sauce in a boat. The quantities given in the above are large, but can be taken at half, one-third, or one-fourth. Other receipts of an imitative character and dubbed Nesselrode Puddings will be found under Puddings. NESTS.—See Birds’-Nest Soup. NETTLES.—Plants of the genus Urtica are known by this name, and although commonly shunned by human beings on account of their stinging propensities, have been converted by the magic wand of the cook into valuable vegetables, that is, if gathered when young and tender. Those of March and April alone are reliable, for after the flower appears the stalks become stringy and the leaves strong flavoured. See Fig. 5. Boiled Nettles.—Procure the Nettles when very young and tender, and wash them thoroughly. Then chop them finely, put them in a stewpan with a small quantity of water, and steam until tender. Toast two or three slices of bread, trim off the crusts, and lay on a hot dish. Drain the Nettles well, spread them over the toast, and dust them over with salt and pepper. Warm 2oz. or 3oz. of butter until almost oiled, pour it over the Nettles, squeeze a few drops of lemon-juice over the whole, and serve quickly. Nettle Beer.—(1) Procure a large bunch of freshly-gathered Nettles, put them in a pan with 2galls. of water, and boil for fifteen or twenty minutes. Put 21b. of loaf sugar and lfoz. of cream of tartar in a large tub, strain