161 TEE ENCYCLOPEDIA OP PRACTICAL COOKERY. Pheasants—continued. until slightly browned; then pour 1 pint of rich brown gravy over them, and put in two or three slices of ham, a few mushrooms, a couple of hay-leaves, and 1 wineglass- ful of sherry. Put the lid on the stewpan and keep the contents simmering slowly for about two hours. When cooked, lay the pieces of Pheasant on a hot dish, strain their gravy over them, and serve. Stewed Pheasant a la Piedmontese.—Draw, singe, and divide two young Pheasants into live or six pieces each. Put the necks, gizzards, leg-hones, and hacks into a stew- pan with a little water, and boil them to make a gravy. Skim the fat oft'; reduce and thicken the liquor with game sauce. Put the legs into a flat stewpan with a piece of butter, and partially fry them. When the legs are half done, put in with them the breasts and wings, Goz. of lean ham cut in small squares, two small sliced onions, and a bunch of parsley and sweet herbs; put the lid on the stewpan and some live coals on the top of the lid, and finish cooking the Pheasants, turning them occa- sionally. Take the pieces of Pheasants out when cooked, put them on a plate, trim them, and remove the drum- sticks from the legs; drain the butter out of the stewpan, pour in the prepared gravy, and let it simmer for two or three minutes; take out the onions and aromatics, put the pieces of Pheasant in, stand the stewpan at the side of the tire, and let them heat gently without boiling. In the meantime, prepare a border of rice, made in the following manner: Put a chopped onion into a stewpan with a little melted beef marrow, and fry it; wash and drain lOoz. of rice, put it in with the onion, and stir it over the fire till warm; then moisten to double its height until broth, and boil it dry of moisture. Mix with the rice when done 4oz. of grated Parmesan cheese and 5oz. of butter, turn it into a border-mould, and keep it for a few minutes in a warm place. Turn the border of rice on to a hot dish, fill the hollow with slices of raw white Piedmont truffles; arrange over these the legs of the Pheasants, putting the breasts and wings on the top; mask them with a little of the sauce, and serve with the rest in a sauceboat. Stewed Pheasants a la Royale.—Truss two young Pheasants as for boiling, lard the thickest part of their breasts in a square, put them into a stewpan that has been lined with thin slices of fat bacon, with two large onions, two or three cloves, a bunch of parsley, two bay-leaves, and sufficient white stock to reach the larded part of the birds; cover them with a sheet of buttered paper, and stew them gently for an hour. Finely chop the livers of the birds with jib. of beef-suet, put them in a mortar with 111), of breadcrumbs, 1 table-spoonful of chopped thyme and parsley, a small quantity of grated nutmeg, salt and pepper, and pound them; bind the mixture with four well-beaten eggs, and pass it through a fine hair sieve. Cut two thick pieces of bread, toast them, spread them with the prepared stuffing, lay them in a buttered saute-pan, and bake them for twenty minutes. Pound the flesh of the remains of some cold cooked game in a mortar, then put it in a stewpan with 4 table-spoonful of chopped shallots, and a small piece of butter; stir them over the fire for a few minutes, then pour in Iqt. of demi-glaze of game and 1 teacupful of white stock. Boil the sauce for ten minutes, then pass it through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan, and season with salt, pepper, and £ teaspoonful of sugar. If too thick, the sauce can be thinned with a little broth. Warm it up again, but do not let it boil. Trim the pieces of toast to a nice shape, place them on a hot dish; glaze the larded parts of the birds, lay one on each piece of toast, pour the sauce round them, and serve. Stewed Pheasant served with Chestnut Puree.—Pluck, draw, and singe a Pheasant, fry the liver till firm, put it in a mortar with double its quantity of chopped bacon, and pound it. Stuff the Pheasant with the mixture, and truss it; lard the breast and legs with bacon. Put at the bottom of a stewpan some trimmings of ham and finely- chopped bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little salt; put in the bird, moisten it to the height of the legs with Pheasants—continued. white wine and broth mixed in equal quantities, and boil till the liquor is reduced to about half; then move the stewpan to the side of the fire, put hot ashes on the lid, and let the contents simmer gently, basting the Pheasant occasionally with its own cooking-stock. When the bird is cooked, brush it with a paste-brush dipped in melted coloured glaze. Have ready a chestnut puree, put it on a hot dish; drain, and untruss the Pheasant, and put it on the puree; pass the cooking liquor through a fine hair sieve, skim ott- the fat, pour it over the Pheasant, and serve. Stewed Pheasants with Lettuce.—Singe and draw two young Pheasants, and truss them as for boiling : lard the best part of the breast in the form of a square. Put some thin slices of fat bacon into a stewpan, put in the Pheasants, the breast upwards, with some blanched cabbage lettuces, two large onions, each stuck with two cloves, a bunch of parsley, and two bay-leaves; pour in enough white stock to reach the larded part of the Pheasants, lay six pork sausages on the top, and cover them with a sheet of buttered paper. Put the lid on the stewpan, and cook the birds gently for an hour. When cooked, glaze and salamander the breasts of the birds. Take the sausages and lettuces carefully out, and rest them on paper till the grease has drained off. Put two large pieces of lettuce in the centre of a hot dish, put a bird on each, and with the remainder chopped small make a flat border round the edge of the dish; slit the sausages into two pieces each, and arrange Fig. 210. Stewed Pheasants with Lettuces. them on the border of lettuce (see Fig. 210). Pass the cooking- liquor through a fine hair sieve into a clean stewpan, skim off all the fat, mix 14 pints of brown sauce with it, and boil it quickly till reduced to a demi-glaze; stir 4 teaspoonful of sugar in with it, pour the sauce over the birds, and serve them. Stewed Pheasant with Peas.—Cut some cold remains of roast Pheasant into convenient-sized pieces. Peel and slice an onion, put it into a stewpan with loz. of butter, and toss it over the fire until cooked, but do not brown it. Dredge the onion over with a small quantity of flour, put in the pieces of Pheasant with another lump of butter, season to taste with salt and pepper, and fry them for a few minutes; then put hi a small tin of preserved peas, moisten with a small quantity of stock, and put in also a slice of bacon and some finely-minced parsley. Keep the whole simmering gently at the side of the fire for half-an-hour. When cooked, remove the bacon, turn the Pheasant on to a hot dish, garnish it with crofitons of fried bread or sippets of toast, and serve. Stewed Pheasant with Sourcrout.—Put 21b. of sour- crout, previously washed, into a stewpan with lOoz. of goose fat and 12oz. of washed and blanched salt pork, pour in 4 pint of broth, close the stewpan hermetically, putting live embers on the lid, and let the contents simmer over a moderate fire. Get a well-hung fat Pheasant, pluck, draw, and truss it, put it in a stewpan with a little goose fat, and fry it over a brisk fire till nicely browned. Put six dozen oysters in a stewpan with 1 wineglassful of white wine; when bubbling, drain them, preserving their liquor. Refresh them by dipping them in cold water; beard, and keep them covered in the stew- pan. Mix with the liquor of the oysters a little good broth, and slightly thicken it with flour worked in butter. After the sourcrout has been cooking two-hours-and-a- half, mix with it 1 tumblerful of champagne; lialf-an-hour later, put the coloured Pheasant in with the sourcrout, and cook it for one hour longer. When done, drain the VOL. II. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, etc., referred to, see under their special heads. M