119 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, efee., referred to, see under their special heads. Paste and Pastry—con tinned. walnuts (see Fig. 162), and a variety of other tasty designs, even to the extent of making a cornucopia (see Fig. 163). To produce cornucopias, special moulds Fig. 148. Round Cake-ring (Mathews and Son). (see Fig. 164) are required, which open by means of pins and hinges in such a way that the Paste can be removed whole and perfect so soon as it is set by baking. One of Fig. 149. Shallow Cake-ring. the most modern samples of fancy Pastry is the cannelon, which is usually filled with cream and garnished with pre- serves. A cannelon is made by twisting a long narrow Fig. 150. Oblong Cake-tin (Mathews and Son). strip of Puff Paste round a stick prepared for the purpose (see Fig. 165). The stick is removed after the cannelon is baked, and the place where the stick came from filled with Fig. 151. Square Cake-tin (Mathews and Son). Fig. 152. Round Cake-tin with Straight Sides (Mathews and Son). Paste and Pastry—continued. above, completing the drying of all parts equally without making the underneath sodden. Most kinds of fancy Pastry require a little drying in the hot-closet, a sort of Fig. 155. Madeleine Cake and Mould. tin-lined screen (see Fig. 167), fitted with shelves, which is open on one side towards the fire. _ In this, if placed upon a Pastry-wire as described, biscuits containing sugar Fig. 156. Breakfast Cake and Hoop. become crisp and keep better, especially if stored in regular biscuit-tins. Sometimes the pastrycook finds it advisable to decorate his uroductions with little round Fig. 157. Baba-moulds (Adams and Son). balls, or beads of Paste, called quenelles; these may be dipped in different kinds of coloured sugars, chocolate, and other icing, and if carefully used afford a very Fig. 158. Fi.awn and Ring. jam or cream, or both, or any other sweet that the fancy of the pastrycook may suggest. This kind of Pastry being very delicate, it requires great care in handling, and should useful mode of decoration. The balls are prepared by cutting strips of Paste and rolling them into sticks of an equal calibre, they are then cut into equal lengths, say be set to dry after baking on a wire frame (see Fig. 166) raised by legs from the table, shelf, or counter, so that the air can reach the Pastry from underneath as well as from j-in. thick and Jin. long, and rolled into spherical shape with the aid of a small piece of board (see Fig. 168) and a slight dusting of flour, by giving the board a