THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 977 Mutton—continued. out of the fat, drain them, lift out the centre, scoop out the inside, and fill them up with cooked minced Mutton moistened with a little gravy. Replace each small round to form a lid, put them again in the oven for a few minutes, and serve very hot on an ornamental dish-paper laid on a dish. See Fig. 1219. Chaudfroid of Mutton Cutlets.—Trim some cutlets from a neck of Mutton, having a hone to each one, and put them in the oven for an hour to braise, until the meat is quite tender. Take them out, put them on a hoard with a small weight on the top and leave them to get cold. Trim them neatly, and dip them in 1 pint of good glaze until they assume a smooth, glazed appearance Take 1 pint of aspic jelly, cut off a few croutons from it to put round the cutlets, and chop up the remnants and put them on a dish; arrange the cutlets in a circle and fill up the cavity in the centre with a macedoine of carrots, potatoes, peas, cauliflower, green haricot beans, French beans, cucumber, and beetroot. Cut up the vegetables into small pieces of equal size, boil them in separate saucepans, take them out, plunge them into cold water to preserve their colour, and mix well (with the exception of the beetroot) with £ pint of mayonnaise sauce. Put the beetroot in the dish last, as it is liable to discolour all the other vegetables if mixed with them. Decorate the end of each bone with small frills of paper, and serve. China Ckilo.—Finely mince about 2ilb. of loin or neck of Mutton without much fat; peel and chop a moderate-sized onion; wash a lettuce, trimming off the outside leaves, and shred it finely. Melt 6oz. of butter in a stewpan, put in the above ingredients with 1 h pints of green peas, season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne pepper, and moisten with 3 breakfast-cupfuls of weak stock or water. Leave the stewpan over the fire until the contents are on the point of boiling, then move it to the side, cover with the lid, and simmer gently for two-hours-and-a-half. At the end of that time have ready prepared on a hot dish a border of boiled rice, turn the Mutton, &c., into the centre, and serve. Cold Boiled Mutton served with Tinned Tomato Sauce. —Trim off the fat from about 111), of cold boiled Mutton, and cut the lean into slices; season with salt, pepper, and a small quantity of cayenne, lay them on a dish, and baste with loz. of warmed butter. Put loz. of butter into a stewpan with 1 table-spoonful of flour, stir it over the fire until well mixed, then put in i breakfast-cupful of stock, and continue stirring until it boils. Mix 1 pint of tinned tomatoes with the boiling stock, season to taste with salt and pepper, add 1 teaspoonful of moist sugar, and boil the whole for three or four minutes longer. Drop the slices of Mutton in the sauce just before serving so as to make them hot. Cold Mutton Cutlets.—(1) Cut part of a neck of Mutton into cutlets, trim them to a neat shape, removing all the fat and cutting the hone quite short, and lard them with thin strips of bacon. Cover the bottom of a braising-pan I with a slice or two of fat bacon; put in the cutlets with a few slices of carrots and turnips, one sliced onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour in 1 wineglassful of white wine and a small quantity of rich gravy, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Braise the cutlets gently until tender, then drain them, put them on a dish with another pressed over them, and leave until cold. Strain the cook- ing-liquor through a fine hair sieve into a small sauce- pan, and boil it until reduced to a glaze. When the cutlets are quite cold, trim them again and coat them with the glaze. Arrange them on a dish over which has been spread a fancy-edged dish-paper or a folded table- napkin, garnish with a few neat sprigs of well-washed parsley, and serve with a sauceboatful of cold tomato sauce. (2) Trim some neck-of-Mutton cutlets, free them almost entirely from fat, cut the bones off short, and lard with fdlets of bacon. Line a braising-pan with a slice of fat bacon, a few slices of carrots, onions, and turnips, put in the cutlets with a hunch of sweet herbs, salt and pepper to taste, ami moisten with a small quantity of gravy, also 1 wineglassful of white wine. Stew them gently until Mutton—continued. tender, then drain and press them between two plates until cold. Strain the cooking-liquor and boil it until reduced to a glaze. When quite cold, trim the cutlets again, and brush them over with it; lay them on a dish over which has been spread a fancy dish-paper, garnish with crofttons of aspic jelly and sprigs of chervil, and serve. (3) Remove the spine-hone anil rib-bones from some neck- of-Mutton cutlets, leaving them 3in. long. Beat them lightly with a cutlet-bat, trim neatly, and sprinkle on both sides with salt and pepper; put them into a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fry on both sides. When nicely browned, strain off' most of the fat from the cutlets, and pour over them about & teacupful of gravy, having a small piece of glaze about the size of a walnut and a few drops of lemon-juice added. Leave the cutlets over the fire for two or three minutes, then take them out of the pan and boil the gravy until reduced to a glaze; coat the cutlets on both sides with it, and let them get cold. Well wash 31b. or 4lb. of fresh spinach, and boil it; when tender, turn it into a colander, pour some cold water over, and press firmly to squeeze dry. Chop the spinach finely, put it into a stewpan with about J teacupful of white sauce and toz. of butter, season it with salt, a small quantity of grated nutmeg and caster sugar, and stir it over the lire for a few minutes. Next pass the spinach through a fine hair sieve, and make a border of it on a round dish. Reel an equal quantity of carrots and turnips, slice them rather thickly, and cut them into small squares. Boil the carrots and turnips separately in salted water, and when tender turn them into a basin of water where they may remain until cold. When ready, drain the vegetables well and turn them into the centre of the border of spinach, arrange the cutlets round the dish against the spinach, and serve. Cold Mutton Sliced and Fried with Bacon.—Cut some slices of cold Mutton, dredge them with flour, and season each slice with pepper, salt, and a few drops of mush- room ketchup. First fry some rashers of bacon, then fry the slices of cold Mutton in the fat, and arrange them on a hot dish, laying a rasher of bacon next to each slice of Mutton. Collared Breast of Mutton.— (1) Take out the bone from a breast of Mutton, rub it well over with yolk of egg, sprinkle with grated lemon-peel, nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and over this again a mixture of chopped capers, bread- crumbs, parsley, and sweet herbs. Roll up the breast as tightly as possible, and boil it gently in a saucepan of Fig. 1220. Collared Breast of Mutton. water for two hours; then put it into a pickle composed of the liquor in which it was boiled, vinegar and salt, and leave it for several days. Take it out, drain, place it on a dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. See Fig. 1220. (2) Remove the skin from a breast of Mutton and take out all the hones and gristle; lay it flat on a board or table, sprinkle it over with ground mace and cloves, and season with salt and pepper to taste. Put 1 handful of breadcrumbs into a basin, and mix hi five washed and For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, &c., referred to, see under their special heads. 4 B