THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 169 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, <t-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Figs—continued. Pig's Cheek.—(1) Put a pickled Pig’s cheek in a saucepan of water, and boil it until quite tender. Take it out, and place it in a warm place until wanted. Put 1 break- fast-cupful of split peas tied up in a muslin bag in a saucepan of boiling water, set it on the fire, and boil for an hour. Take out the bag, turn the peas out on to a sieve, and rub them through. Put the puree into another saucepan with loz. of butter and four eggs, sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, and stir well over a slow fire until the eggs are nearly set. Smear this mixture over the Pig’s cheek, sprinkle it with breadcrumbs, put it on a dish in a moderate oven, and bake for ten minutes. Take it out, brown it with a salamander if it is not sufficiently coloured already, and serve very hot. (2) Take two lean smoked Pig’s cheeks, and let them soak in cold water all night. Next morning drain them well, put them in a saucepan, covering with cold water, and cook for an-hour-and-three-quarters; then lay them on a dish, drain well again, remove the rind and skin which adheres to the tongue, take out all the hones, and place the cheeks on a hot dish. Garnish with 1 pint of hot spinach, and serve. Fig’s Jowl.—Put the under-jaw or jowl of a young Pig in a saucepan, and boil it until the bone can be easily removed. Sprinkle over with salt and pepper before boil- ing and again afterwards. When the meat is tender, score it across, brush it over with beaten egg and then with bread or biscuit-crumbs (the Americans use cracker- meat). Put it in a pan with a little of its stock, set the pan in the oven, and brown. Fig’s Ears.—These are esteemed as food principally on account of their crisp cartilaginous character. Baked Pigs’ Bars.—Singe off all the hair from half-a- dozen or so Pigs’ ears, then scrape and blanch them. Let them get cold, put them into warmed butter, rub over with breadcrumbs, covering them completely, then dip them into well-beaten yolk of egg and breadcrumb them again. Fig. 220. Baked Pigs’ Ears. Put them into a baking-dish in a moderate oven, and bake until done and of a light brown. Take them out, put them on a dish (see Fig. 220), pour over some remoulade sauce, and serve. Braised Pigs’ Bars.—Thoroughly clean the required quantity of Pig’s ears, singe off all the hair, and scrape them. Put a layer of slices of fat bacon at the bottom of a braising- pan, place the ears on it, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, and add a few slices of carrots and onions and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour in sufficient stock to moisten, set the pan on the fire with hot ashes on the lid, and let them coek until they are done. Strain the liquor through a fine sieve, skim off the fat, arrange the ears on a dish, pour the liquor over, and serve very hot. Pigs’ Bars d la Lyonnaise.—Singe off all the hair from some Pig’s ears, scrape them, wash them well, and cut them lengthwise into strips. Put them into a saucepan with a little stock, and add a small quantity of flour, a few slices of onions fried, and salt and pepper to taste. Set the pan on the side of the fire, and let the liquor simmer gently until the ears are thoroughly cooked. Arrange them on a dish, add a little lemon-juice to the liquor, Figs —continued. pour it with the onions over the ears, and serve with a garnish of fried slices of bread. Pig’s-Ears Soup.—(1) Put a couple of salted Pig’s ears in a basin of water, and let them steep for a few hours; take them out, drain, wipe them on a cloth, and singe. Put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, set the pan on the fire, and boil gently for an-hour-and-a-half. Take them out, cut each one lengthwise in halves, and put them into a stock-pot with lgall. of water, adding 1 pint of split peas, a carrot and onion cut in slices, two cloves and a sprig of parsley. Put the pan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils remove it to the side and let it simmer gently until both the ears and peas are thoroughly cooked. Take out the ears, trim off the fat, and cut the remainder into shreds. Strain the liquor from the peas, vegetables, &c., and nib them through a fine sieve. Then add the stock again to them, and pass the whole through a sieve into a saucepan. Put the pan on the fire, and stir frequently until the mixture boils; add the pieces of ears, and boil slowly at the side of the fire for ten minutes to clarify. Skim off all the fat, and serve with pieces of bread fried in butter. (2) Singe, scrape, and clean two or three Pig’s ears, and put them in a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and boil slowly for twenty minutes. Mince two carrots and onions, one or two leeks, and a root of celery, put them into a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them for a few minutes. Turn them into a saucepan, and add lqt. of broth and J pint of white wine to moisten. Set the pan on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils add a bunch of sweet herbs and lastly the Pig’s ears; remove the pan to the side of the fire and boil slowly until the ears are done; they will take from three to four hours. Take out the ears, put them on a dish to keep warm, strain the stock through a fine sieve, and remove all the fat. Prepare a roux with 3 table-spoonfuls of flour and 5oz. of butter, but without allowing it to colour; pour over the stock that the ears were cooked in, put the pan containing these on the fire, and as soon as the liquor boils remove the pan to the side and add a small slice of uncooked ham. Let the liquor boil gently for forty-five minutes, skim off the fat, strain it through a fine sieve into another saucepan, and mix in \ wineglassful of Madeira, a little pepper, and lastly the ears cut into small pieces. Put the pan on the fire, boil for a few minutes longer, then turn the whole out into a soup- tureen, and serve. Salted Pigs’ Bars.—Singe off all the hairs from four salted Pigs’ ears, plunge them into a basin of boiling water, let them remain for a few minutes until they are scalded, take them out, drain, and wipe dry on a cloth. Put them into a saucepan with sufficient water to cover, and add a few vegetables cut in slices, cloves, peppercorns, and a small bunch of sweet herbs. Set the pan on the fire and boil gently from three to four hours; take them out when done, drain, and wipe them on a cloth. Have ready a puree of lentils, placed on a dish and well raised in the centre, arrange the ears in an upright position on it, and serve with a little of the liquor, reduced with 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of vinegar and slightly thickened with flour. Stuffed Pigs’ Bars.—(1) Prepare a savoury forcemeat with fib. of breadcrumbs, Jib. of beef-suet very finely chopped, one anchovy, a little minced veal, and sage, parsley, salt and pepper to taste. Very little salt will be required. Make the mixture into a paste by adding the yolks of two eggs. Have ready four parboiled or soused Pigs’ ears, lift up the skin of the upper side and stuff them, put them into a frying-pan with butter, and fry to a rich colour. Take them out, drain, and place them in a stew- pan with 1 breakfast-cupful of rich gravy, seasoned with 1 wineglassful of sherry and 3 teaspoonfuls of made mustard, and thickened with flour and butter ; add to the stewpan a small onion, and salt and pepper to taste. Cover the pan and cook the contents gently for thirty minutes, toss- ing the pan frequently. Remove the onion, arrange the ears on a dish, pour over the sauce, and serve. The cooked flesh from two or three feet may be added (see Fig. 221).