THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. 107 For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, dec., referred to, see under their special heads. Partridges—continued. with it some finely-minced chervil and tarragon, and season with salt and pepper; arrange some washed endive in a salad-howl, put in the pieces of Partridges, and pour the dressing over them. Ornament the top with some slices of hard-boiled eggs, pickled gherkins, and fillets of anchovies that have been well washed. Strew over some chopped capers, and serve. Partridges Sautes.—Cut the legs off two Partridges, remove the meat, chop it with an equal quantity of veal or chicken, put it in a mortar, and pound it; mix with it a third of its quantity of panada and a little butter, work it till smooth, and season with salt and nutmeg. Mix in the beaten yolks of two or three eggs, pass it through a fine hair sieve into a basin, and add 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of thick cream. Fill a border mould with the above preparation, and stand it in the bain-marie. Divide each breast of Partridge into three or four pieces, and put them in a frying-pan with a lump of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, and three or four peppercorns. Put the bones and backs of the Partridges in a saucepan with two slices of bacon and ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some peppercorns, and brown them over a quick fire. Pour in sufficient white wine and gravy to make the sauce, and boil it for twenty minutes. Reduce J pint of bechamel sauce with the trimmings of some truffles, then strain into it the liquor that the bones were boiled in, and keep it hot. Put the frying-pan containing the breasts and fillets of Partridges over a quick fire, and fry them, turning to brown them equally. When nearly done, put in five truffles that have been cut in small dice and 1 tea- cupful of Madeira, move the pan to the side of the fire, and cook the truffles gently. Turn the border out of the mould on to a hot dish, and put the breasts and fillets of Partridges in the centre; boil the sauce up again, then strain it over the Partridges, and serve. Partridges Sautes a la Chasseur.—Singe, draw, and wipe two fine, tender Partridges, cut them into twelve pieces, place them in a saute-pan with loz. of butter, seasoning well with 1 pinch of salt and h pinch of pepper, and brown well for three minutes on each side; add a finely- chopped shallot, J wineglassful of Madeira wine, J pint of Spanish sauce, and twelve whole mushrooms. Finish cook- ing for fifteen minutes, then serve, with six bread croutons round the dish for garnish. Partridge Soup.—(1) Cut up a brace of old Partridges, put them in a stewpan with a lump of butter and a slice of ham, and toss them about over the fire until somewhat browned; then put in an onion, a few pieces of celery, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Pour hi 5 pints of water, and boil them gently for three hours. Strain the soup, make it hot again, turn it into a soup-tureen with some stewed celery, and serve it with a plate of sippets of toast or small croutons of fried bread. (2) Make a good stock of a knuckle of veal, a piece of lean ham, three good-sized onions, three good-sized carrots, a white pepper whole, two blades of mace, and 5qts. of water. Half roast four Partridges, then stew them in the stock till they are quite tender; cut off all the best of the meat, put the bones and trimmings into the stock, and pound the meat quite fine, moistening it with 1 or 2 spoonfuls of the stock; then rub it through a sieve. Strain the stock, and mix the pounded meat into it, together with 1 spoonful of sugar, pepper and salt to taste, a small quantity of cream, and H wineglassfuls of port wine. Serve very hot. (3) Old birds are generally used for making soups. Procure four Partridges, skin and disjoint them, and put them in a large saucepan with 3ill), or 41b. of gravy beef cut into moderate-sized pieces, and Jib. of ham in slices; also add four moderate-sized onions, peeled and sliced, a small head of celery cut into lengths, and a lump of butter. Place them over the fire, and toss them about well until lightly browned; then drain off as much of the butter as possible, pour in 7 pints of boiling water, and season with salt and a few peppercorns. When boiling, skim the soup, move it to the side of the fire, and let it simmer gently for three hours. At the end of that time, Partridges—con tinued. strain the soup, boil it up again, pour it into a soup- tureen, and serve with croutons of fried bread. (4) Wrap a few slices of fat bacon round four Partridges, and roast them. Let them get cold, cut off all the meat from them, pound it in a mortar, and add 2oz. of bread- crumbs and loz. of lice boiled in broth; put them all into a saucepan with 1 table spoonful of Spanish sauce, 2 table-spoonfuls of bechamel sauce, and 8 table-spoonfuls of rich consomme. Stir well over a slow fire until the puree is quite hot, pass it through a sieve into a tureen, pour over a sufficient quantity of soup made from the bones of the birds, and serve with pieces of bread fried to a light colour in butter. Partridge Soup with. Lentils.—Put 1 pint of lentils in a saucepan with two or three carrots, turnips, and onions, a piece of raw ham, and two Partridges without their fillets; pour in sufficient broth to cover them, and simmer by the side of the fire till the meat is done. Strain the soup through a fine hair sieve. Put the lentils and flesh of the Par- tridges in a mortar, and pound it; then pour in the soup, pass all through the sieve into the saucepan again, and stir it over the fire till very hot, but do not allow it to boil. Prepare some Partridge quenelles with the fillets of the Partridges, cook them, and serve with the soup in a soup-tureen. Potted Partridges.—(1) Mix together the following spices: 1 teaspioonful of ground cloves, \ teaspoonful each of ground *■ mace, allspice, and white pepper, J table-spoonful of salt, and a small quantity each of nutmeg and cayenne pepper. Prepare the Partridges as for roasting, season them both inside and out until the spice, and truss them. Put a thick layer of vine-leaves at the bottom of a stewpan, put the birds in, breasts downwards, and cover them with clarified butter; place the lid on the stewpan, and cook the ' birds over a very gentle fire. When cooked, take the birds out and drain them well. Clarify their cooking- butter and let it get cold, then take the solid butter that is free from the gravy and melt it again. Put the birds in jars, pour the warmed butter over them, and when it has cooled again tie parchment over the jars. Should it be required to keep the birds longer than a week, pour a layer of melted paraffin-wax in each jar. (2) Clean some Partridges well, and dry them. Mix together a seasoning of finely-powdered allspice, white pepper, salt, and mace, and rub the birds all over with it; then lay them breasts downwards in a pan, packing them as close as possible. Put plenty of butter over them, cover the pan with a common paste of flour and water, tie a piece of strong paper over, and bake the Partridges in the oven. When quite cold, pack the birds tightly into pots, and cover them with butter. Puree of Partridge.—(1) Empty and clean three Partridges, put them in a braising-pan with a little game broth, and braise them. When done, let them cool. Strain the cooking- liquor through a fine hair sieve, skim off all the fat, put it in a stewpan with double its quantity of veloute sauce, and boil till reduced to the thickness of thick supreme sauce. Take all the meat from the Partridges when cold, chop it, put it in a mortar, and pound, pouring in gradually at the same time the sauce. Pass the puree through a fine hair sieve, and it is then ready for use. (2) Peel fifty roasted chestnuts, put them in a sauce- pan with some strong broth, and let them simmer for a time. Cut off all the meat of a roasted Partridge, and put it, minus the skin, in a mortar. Drain the chestnuts, put them in with the Partridge meat, and pound them; then pass all through a fine hair sieve. Mix with the puree some breadcrumb that has been soaked in the chestnut stock, put the puree in a saucepan, stir it over the fire till thoroughly heated again, then turn it on a hot dish, garnish with croft tons of fried bread, and serve. Puree of Partridge with Plovers’ Eggs.—To Jules Goutle is due the arrangement of this pretty dish. Draw and clean four Partridges, and remove the fillets of three, keeping the other one whole, for roasting. Cut the fillets into three pieces each lengthwise; trim fourteen of the pieces, 3in. long, Jin. broad, and Jin. thick. Shape the remaining