91 THE ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF PRACTICAL COOKERY. For details respecting Culinary Processes, Utensils, Sauces, i-c., referred to, see under their special heads. Parsley—continued. These names our authority freely translates Peter’s Moon Plant, and adds that the connection of the name of Peter with it is suggestive of the policy hy which the pre- judices of the rude people, amongst whom Christianity was first introduced, were met and modified in the transference of objects of reverential regard, from the tutelage of long-honoured Pagan divinities, to that of Christian Saints. Parsley, thus dedicated to funeral rites by the Greeks, was afterwards consecrated to St. Peter in his character of successor to Charon, and doorkeeper of Paradise. Whether the above glowing account be correct or not, it is quite certain that well-curled Parsley (see Fig. 105) is fit for the modern cook’s crown. As a seasoning and garnish it has no equal, whether cooked or raw, and the garnish of one day can be fried for either the garnish or seasoning of another. Parsley should never be thrown away, as even when greasy it can be cooked, and when clean can be dried for use when the Parsley-beds are no longer available. Fried Parsley.—Carefully pick the stems from the Parsley, wash it, dry it on a cloth, put it into a frying-basket and then into hot fat, and fry for a few minutes, taking care that the fat is not too hot, or the Parsley will lose its colour and be spoiled. The fat that croquettes have been fried in is best for it. Farsley-and-Butter Sauce.—(1) Put '2oz. of butter into a saucepan, and melt it; then stir in 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, mixing it well over the fire, but not letting it brown at all. Pour in gradually 1 pint of boiling water or white stock, and continue stirring until it thickens; then put in 2oz. more butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of finely-chopped Parsley, and season to taste with salt and pepper. When the butter has dissolved the sauce is ready for serving. (2) Blanch a small bunch of Parsley, and chop it finely. Put lioz. of butter into a small saucepan with 1 table- spoonful of flour, and stir it over the fire until well mixed but not browned; then pour in gradually £ pint of water, and stir it over the fire until boiling. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire, add the Parsley, and season to taste with salt and white pepper. Stir it for two or three minutes longer, and it is then ready for serving. Parsley Jelly.—Wash a large bunch of fresh young Parsley in several waters, put it in a lined copper pan with as much cold water as will nearly cover it, and boil for half- an-hour. Strain it through a jelly-bag two or three times, measure the juice, put it again hi the pan, with lib. of loaf sugar and the rind and strained juice of a lemon to eveiy pint, and boil it for twenty-live minutes. Stir in foz. of isinglass, then skim the jelly and pour it into jars. When cold, tie these down, and keep them in a dry store- closet. Parsley Juice for Colouring.—Pick some leaves of Parsley, put them hi a mortar, and pound them. Squeeze the juice oil into a jar, stand it in a saucepan, surround it with boiling water, but do not let the water boil over the edges (a bain-marie is best), and keep it by the side of the fire till the juice is warm. It is then ready for use. Parsley-and-Lemon Sauce.—Squeeze the juice out of a lemon, remove all the pips, and finely mince the pulp and rind. Wash a good handful of Parsley, shake it as dry as possible, and chop it, throwing away all the stalks. Put loz. of butter and 1 table-spoonful of flour hi a stewpan, and stir them over the fire until well mixed; then put in the Parsley and minced lemon, and pour in as much clear 6tock as will be required to make the sauce. Season with a small quantity of pounded mace, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutes. Beat the yolks of two eggs with 2 table-spoonfuls of cold stock, and move the sauce to the side of the fire; when it has gone off' the boil sth in the eggs. Stir the sauce for two minutes at the side of the fire, when it will be ready for serving. Parsley Omelet.—Break two eggs in a basin, put 1 table- spoonful of milk in with them, and beat them, mixing Parsley—continued. thoroughly but not making them too light; add 1 pinch of salt and 1 table-spoonful of finely-chopped Parsley, while beating. Put 1 table-spoonful of clarified butter in a small omelet-pan, and when boiling put in the omelet preparation; when partly set, run the point of a knife round to loosen it, and shake the omelet over to the further side of the pan until the thin edge, forced up- wards, falls back into the omelet. When nicely browned underneath, and the middle nearly set, roll the brown side uppermost, with the aid of a knife, and slide the omelet on to a hot dish. Serve at once. Parsley Powder.—Gather a quantity of fresh Parsley, and dip it into a basin of boiling water in which a little bi- carbonate of soda has been dissolved. Wring the Parsley well to extract as much of the water as possible, tie it together in moderate sized bunches, cover them with thin paper to keep the dust oil', and hang them up in the kitchen in a warm temperature. When quite dry, rub the Parsley oil’ the stalks, powder it as finely as possible, and sift it through a piece of coarse muslin. Put the powder into small wide-mouthed bottles, and cork them tightly. The corking must be especially attended to, as the Parsley will lose its flavour if not kept dry and free from air. Preserved Parsley for Winter Use.—Tie some fresh washed Parsley in bunches, having first carefully picked it over, put it in a saucepan of boiling water with a little salt and boil for three or four minutes. Put the Parsley on a sieve to drain. Dry it slowly in front of a brisk fire, and when dry enough almost to crumble put it into bottles. When the Parsley is required for use soak it in warm water for two or three minutes. Although not equal in appearance to fresh Parsley, it answers very well when the other cannot lie procured. PARSNIPS (Fr. Panais; Ger. Pastinaken; Ital. Pastinaclie; Sp. Chirivais).—The Parsnip is the edible aromatic spindle-shaped root of Pastinaca sativa (accord- ing to modern botanists more properly called Peuce- danum sativum). The name Pastinaca is derived from the Latin pastinum, a kind of dibble, which it closely resembles in shape. In its wild state the Parsnip is poisonous, but under cultivation it is not only quite Fig. 106. Long Parsnip. Fig. 107. Round Parsnip. harmless, but nutritious as a vegetable food. The Parsnip is a native of England and Ireland, but does not grow wild in Scotland. It is also met with in many other parts of Europe, and Northern Asia. In the Channel Islands Parsnips, which frequently grow 18in. long and 6in. in diameter, are largely used as winter food for cows, which ai-e said to yield much better butter in consequence.