224) CLINICAL COLLKCTIOXS AND OIJSEIIVATIONS IN SUllGEKY. In sloughing phagedtena iodine does not seem to have been em- ployed ; this affection being much too serious a subject for experi- mentj and yielding in a most complete and rapid manner to a well known remedy. In a few simple sores^ and in one case of in- durated ulceration^ the efficacy of hydriodate of j)otash has_, liow- ever, been tried. When the patient was strong and healthy, the hydriodate of potash, employed in a case of ulceration of the groin remaining after a bubo, did no harm, but was unattended with the least benefit. In two cases of foul superficial ulcers of the pre- puce a marked improvement took place under the use of this me- dicine, but in a third case it did no good. One case of indurated primary sore was treated with hyilriodate of potash after mercury had been discontinued : the improvement still continued, and the patient got quite well. These few cases in which iodine has been tried, together with the general result of its employment in a few more, are not enough to allow any very decided opinion being given from experience as to its use in primary disease. Some ojiinion may, however, be form- ed :—1. The employment of iodine has not been omitted altogether, and the little use which has been made of it has not afforded such favourable results as to induce a continuance of its employment. The effect, in fact, seemed to be none—it did neither good nor harm, but by its use it prevented other medicmes being employed. In two cases of foul superficial ulceration improvement certainly took place, but in a thud case the result was not so good, and rendered the cause of the previous improvement doubtful. 2. The patients in whom primary disease has fingered on, and gradually been attended with secondary symptoms, as well as those in whom primary and secondary disease occur together, without any very clear account being to be had as to their connection, are often very much re- duced, and ill suited to any very active treatment. The general condition of these patients resembles closely those labouring under the phagedsenic form of secondary disease, and their ailments are relieved by the same plan of treatment. The addition of small doses of hydriodate of potash to the sarsaparilla, with improved diet, is certainly beneficial to these patients, and assists in raising them up from their exhausted state to a moderate condition of health, in which the more direct measures suited to their local disease may be employed with more safety and greater advantage.