222 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. tity to these naturally vascular, and now highly inflamed parts, as well as the bleeding which occasionally occurs from the part itself, are, though in fact local abstraction of blood, not destitute of very considerable effect on the general constitution, nor far different from general bleeding. With regard to the second form, the characters of the ulcers are very similar; the degree of sur- rounding inflammation is, however, less, and the general character of the patient^s condition is very different. The patient appears worn and haggard; the pulse, though inclined to be hard, is feeble; the degree of languor is great, and not unfrequently accompanied vdth a general feeling of aching or uneasiness in the hmbs. The stress of the disease, in fact, is on the nervous, and not on the vascular system. Under these circumstances, although the local application of leeches may be attended with benefit, yet the main' point of treatment consists in the employment of opium and wine. The emplojmient of the pil. saponis c. opio, in five or ten grain doses at night, with more or less wine, and some nutritious food, with the local application of a solution of opium under a poultice, or with water-dressing to the sore, are attended with the most benefit to the general condition of the patient, as well as to the local disease. Such appear to be the best modes of treatment dming the acute stage of the ulcer: these temporary conditions are, however, remedied sooner or later, and the sore assumes those conditions in wliich it presents either the characters of a simple sore, or may even present some indiuation. The sore then comes under the treatment as above described for such cases, and ultimately heals. Destruction of parts of the genital organs by slougliing is not very uncommon, and generally appears in the well-known form of sloughing phagedaena. Cases occasionally, however, occur, in which a spot of the vagina, or the mucous hning of the glans or prepuce, even in persons of tolerable health, but labouring under the venereal disease, dies without any very evident cause. Tliis spot separating like the core of a large boil, leaves a healthy granu- lating surface beneath. This rc([uires no particular treatment. In the well-marked cases of sloughing phagedaena the local application of nitric acid gives a degree of relief, and arrests tlie