202 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEEVATTONS IN SUEGEEY. sure^ but occasionally tlie seat of severe pain originating there. The nipple was not depressed; the parts around were neither thickened nor wasted. The tumor was not more adherent to the neighbour- ing parts than any two parts under the skin usually are. No decided alteration in the axilla in any respect. She was a widow, had two cliildren, and had been hable tiU two years ago to “ a falling down of the womb.” Two years since she first felt a small lump, which has increased and become pain- ful, chiefly during the last year. She ceased to menstruate one year since. No decided treatment has been adopted. The breast was removed June 28th, and found to consist of a large cavity, containing six ounces of an opaque wliite fluid, with a mass below of a decidedly cancerous nature. In some parts of the hard portion a yellow stringy substance was visible, mixed however with decided masses of carcinomatous matter, here and there rather soft and reddened. The parts beneath were firm and thickened, and did not appear to be free from disease. After the operation there was some bleeding; and during the few days after the operation the woman was in rather a low condition, which however passed off. She died in the following October, her tliigh having broken spontaneously about one week before death; the disease having also returned in the cicatrix. Cancerous disease of the left femur in its upper tliird, of the sternum and lungs, was found after death. Carcinoma occurs at. times in the axillary glands, in so marked a manner, as compared with the disease in the breast, that it would seem to have been the original disease:— A woman, about 30 years of age, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, in 1843-44, labouring under a deep excavated ulcer in the axilla passing up beliind the vessels, surrounded by very great thickening and hard everted edges; the mammary gland itself being ‘ only affected partially at its lowest part. Trom the appearance of the parts, and especially from the deep excavation, it appeared most probable that the cancerous disease had commenced in the axilla, and had implicated the breast secondarily. The woman was dehcate, but otherwise healthy. She gradually