186 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. ol considerable size, and apparently situated in tlie parietes of the abdomen. An incision was made into the skin and cellular tex- ture, with the evacuation of some pus, but in very small quantity as compared with the swelling. The wound remained open for foui’teen days, when a globular hydatid of large size presented itself at the opening, ivliich burst on being handled, and gave exit to a quantity of yellow fluid. The opening continued to discharge a yellow bilious fluid; there was no derangement of the health, or local atfection of the abdomen, and the man went home cured of the tumor, and with the opening well cicatrized. Tliis man had never been regularly ill or confined to bed, but had a yel- low look, like a forgeman or gas-worker, so as to lead one to ask his occupation. The tumor had existed not less than nine months. 2. A man, aged 35, admitted under Mr. Lawrence, May 18, 1843, labouring under an abscess opening below PouparTs liga- ment on the right side, unattended by any pain on pressure of the back, nor accompanied by much discharge. He is tliiii and pale, but free from any jaundice. A schoolmaster by profession : has resided for a few years on the Continent, and is said to have been very dissolute in liis mode of living. The abscess formed eight mouths since, and burst about three weeks before admission. Whilst in the hospital, and within about three days of admission, a swelling of the size of a walnut formed between the two recti muscles, just below the xiphoid cartilage, which increased to the size of a twenty-ounce bowl before death. This swelling fluc- tuated, had a ^dsible pulsation nuthout tlnill or unnatural sound, was duU on percussion, and was accompanied with great jiain on pressure. There was a loud murmur with the first sound at the base of the heart, which, however, did not extend to the tumor. This man died gradually, rather from general failure than hectic fever, on June the 8th: the abscess in the groin had discharged very little till a few days before his death. J’une 8th, p. m.—An abscess was found on the recti muscles under the skin of the epigastiium, containing about thirty ounces of yellow pus; at the back of this abscess, close to the xiphoid cartilage, a fislulous passage went into an abscess, which, from a fleflciency of a small pari of the diaphragm, was formed jiartly by