382 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. but the presence of soreness of the gums is not absolutely necessaiy. When a considerable effect—as in the indurated sore, and acute syphihtic u-itis—is desired, the employment of mercury, without the production of ptyalism, generally does very httle good, but in the common employment of mercury in mild cases considerable benefit is at times derived even without any morbid soreness of the mouth. The benefit of mercury is dependent not only on its effect, but also on the manner in wliicli that effect is produced. Thus although the same effect, namely, mild ptyalism, may be desired in a case of clironic indurated sore, and in a case of acute iritis, yet if the same rapid exhibition of mercury be employed in the former as is attended with such advantage in the latter case, but httle benefit will occasionally be derived. When the processes of disease are acute and severe, the part affected valuable both as regards its form and use, and the nature of the disease such as yields readily to mercury, that medicine should in general be employed boldly, and with the object of producing its effect quickly; when, however, the disease is of some standing, accompanied with but little inflammation, and presents rather the results than the present actions of disease, the slow and gradual exliibition of mercury will generally be found to be the best. A graduated scale might be made, in which cases requiring the rapid exliibition of mercury might be placed at the top, and those benefited chiefly by the slow employment of mer- cury at the bottom. Acute sypliihtic iritis would be very near the top, and chronic iritis would be very near the bottom; but the great mass of disease would come nearer the upper than the lower part of the scale, wliicli would have the simple primary ulcer as its central point. The primary indurated, and the rapidly spreading phagedsenic ulcers, the indurated cicatrices of old sores, and the glandular swell- ings accompanied with induration, but with very httle surrounding inflammation, are benefited so much more by meremy than by any other means, that the use of mercury is in these cases, if not necessary, at least most advisable. The same remedy, though less beneficial in the chronic form of bubo and ulcer, wdiich lasts for months, and sometimes for years, is attended at times with suc- cess, and affords more chance of relief than any other means. The