178 CLINICAI- COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. both thighs broken, and is to a certain degree fixed, by the feet being fastened to the ends of the splints or bottom of the bed. If the patient suddenly wishes to vomit, he cannot turn, is taken unawares, and is at times suffocated directly. This accident has also happened when one leg only is confined. Tliese cases of suffocation from persons being confined by splints or straps are not very uncommon, if inquiry is made, not in books, but by what one hears from time to time, and certainly happen sufficiently often to induce every precaution being taken to guard against them, though they cannot perhaps always be avoided. They seem to happen in the foUovdng way: the patient is suddenly taken with the desire to vomit, and immediately attempts to raise himseK up to eject the substance from his mouth. In the hurry of moving, and during the exertions to raise liimself up, the patient takes an inspiration from necessity, and is immediately choked by the substance with wliich liis mouth is stiU. filled. It does not appear that the contents of the stomach pass direct, ndth- out any struggle, into the trachea, but that the accident occurs during the struggle. Children are often suffocated by foreign bodies passing into the trachea, and suffer very differently in different cases, according as the substance is fluid or sohd, and also according to the part where the substance sticks. If the substance be a fluid, the cliild often dies directly; if it be solid, and pass into the trachea, the child may either have every sign, general and auscultatory, of a foreign .body in the ah’ passages, or it may be little more than ailing and breathing heavily, and die slowly. If the foreign body sticks m the ventricle of the larynx, the child has no rest, tiU it dies, or till the substance passes either into the trachea or mouth. It is sometimes discussed, what is to be done in these cases, and what is the probability of the foreign body being coughed up • but it is rarely clearly understood by the student, tiU he sees a case, what the risk is of waiting tUl this may happen. When the foreign body excites irritation, the risk is most fearful; the coughing child is strugghng between life and death, and one of three things happens: first, the cough ceases but returns again,— this is most common; secondly, the child dies,—this is not un-