MERCUUY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 267 of the heart, with pain, was observed; but it was not clear that tliis affection had not previously existed. Gonorrhoeal may occur under the same circumstances as com- mon rheumatism, and be undistinguishable from it, except by the liistory rendering it probable that the disease depends on a specific cause. In general this affection is preceded by less con- stitutional disturbance, and is accompanied with less fever and a much slighter degree of perspiration, than common rheumatism. In these respects tliis affection is less severe, but in intensity of pain, and especially in difficulty of cure, gonorrhoeal rheumatism equals and often exceeds any acute inflammatory affection of the joints, unaccompanied by ulceration or the formation of matter. Wlien the attack of gonorrhoeal rheumatism is acute, and resembles ordinary acute rheumatism, the employment of mercury or colchicum, as in common treatment, especially the latter, gives the greatest relief. The hydriodate of potash is very useful in tliis affection, but its benefit is greatest after subsidence of the general constitutional distiubance in the acute cases; wliilst in the eases accompanied by less constitutional disturbance, and in which pain is the prominent symptom, the hydriodate of potash may be employed from the flrst. Patients with gonorrhoeal rheumatism often get so far weU that they are prevented more by pain than anything else from moving about, and continue in tliis condition for some time. The hydriodate of potash is most valuable in these cases; it just relieves the patient in the particular weak point, and enables him to use that strength wliich pain alone prevented him putting to the test. The acute form of this disease may thus be reduced to a milder degree, and this latter condition reduced to that of a mere incon- venience : but the complete removal of gonorrhoeal rheumatism is often a very difficult matter. Unfortunately the remaining portion is not a latent disease, but it reminds the patient of its presence on every exposure and error, and seems just at last rather to wear itself out than to cease from the employment of any particular means. Amongst the patients at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital two instances have occurred of a weakened condition of one arm, which appeared to depend on a slow inflammatory affection of the peufs round the joint, connected with syphilitic affection