CONTENTS. vni PAGE Chap. III.—Injuries of tlie Bones of the Lower Extremities. Reduction of dislocation on ischiatic notch, sometimes unexpectedly easy. Cases of dislocated hip in young children. Case of irreducible dislocation of the hip, and of hip remarkably easy of dislocation and reduction, both probably from fracture. Loss of power in the hip from simple blows. Fracture of the neck of femur. Advantages of the long splint. Frac- ture of femur in the lower third, and its residt, even when running into the knee. Case of laceration of the ligamentum pateU®. Dis- location of knee. Unreduced dislocation of knee. Dissection of a dislocated knee. Fracture of the bones of the leg, of the fibula, and of the head of the tibia. Fractures, their displacement, want of crepitus, and accompanying pain. Consequences of fracture arising at remote periods ........... 40 Chap. IV.—Injuries of the Bones of the Upper Extremity. Alteration in length of the dislocated humerus. Advantage of ex- tension upwards in some cases. Dissection of an unreduced dislocation on the inner side of the coracoid process. Case of compound disloca- tion of the humerus into the axiUa. Case of laceration of the circum- flex nerve from fracture. Fracture of the clavicle. Union of clavicle in peculiar position. Cases of dislocated thumb. Injury to elbow- joint. Sevei-e compound fractures of am and leg . . . . 58 Chap. V.—Injuries of the Head and Spine. Abscess of brain after injury. Discharge of fluid from the ear after fracture or injuiies of the head. Indentation of the skuU in children. Fracture of the base of the skuQ, with remarkable deflciency of symp- toms. Slow inflammatoi-y changes occurring in the skuU of a child after fracture, resembling hydrocephalus. Fractm-ed base and apo- plectic effusion. Bleeding in injuiies of the head. Dislocation of the vertebra; at the junction of the dorsal and lumbar portions. Reason of this part yielding. Freedom from paralysis in these cases Chap. VI.—Bursal Tumors. Treatment by applications, incision, and removal. Suppuration at times only slightly painful. Bursa; about hand and foot. C^ase of large bui-sa of vnnst opened and ciued. Bursa under semi-mcmbra- nosus muscle, with dissection of a case . . . - . •