O CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERI. been performed or not. Still, if bleeding does cause peritonitis, tliis affection should certainly be at least as frequent after bleeding as where no bleeding has been performed. Now the fact is just the reverse, and in so marked a manner, that it even becomes a ques- tion, whether in recent strangulated hernia which comes to an operation, the free bleeding from the arm employed with the taxis does not lessen the chance of the occurrence of peritonitis after the operation. Of tlurty-one cases of strangulated hernia operated on, twelve were bled from the arm before the operation. Of these, tliree had peritonitis and foui- died, but in two, peritonitis had nothing to do with the death; one dying suddenly on the twenty-fifth day without any particular cause, and the other having an internal strangulation of the bowel. This gives tliree cases in twelve, or one-fourth, as the proportion of peritonitis, where bleeding had been employed. Of the nineteen cases where no bleeding was performed before the operation, peritonitis occurred in ten in- stances, not including three cases of internal strangulation. This gives ten cases in nineteen, or rather more than one-half, as the proportion of peritonitis where no bleeding had been performed. This is quite proportion enough to get rid of any anxiety as to the danger of venesection—a measure which has been found of such repeated benefit in the reduction of hernia. It is remarkable how slight a change is often produced -by a very large venesection in the warm bath; even the removal of sixty ounces of blood in a good stream has sometimes produced but an incomplete degree of fainting; and in eight patients who were bled, the quantity of blood taken is only in one case marked so low as twenty ounces, whilst in the remaining seven it vaiies between thirty and forty ounces. The chief points of interest in the gperation itself are here noted in the order of their occurrence. In one case a large abscess existed over the external ring; small cysts have occurred over the femoral herjiia; and in one case an artery divided in the integuments over an inguinal hernia, bled so freely alter the wound was closed, as lo require the reopening of the wound. Varicose veiiis have been met with over the swelling,