79 INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. An old man was brought to the hospital with a cut head, and quite sensible: the person accompanying him stated that he was knocked down by a cab, remained insensible for a short time, and at last got up only a little giddy. In tliree hours he had a violent convulsion, and he died on the eighth day with a fractured base and eifused blood on the brain. A man was thrown from his horse, drunk, and was stunned. He then got up, walked a hundred yards, and appeared quite rational to Ins friends. He went to bed, and slept well, but was found on the floor in the morning, and was said to have been con- vulsed. He died on the second day. There was a fractured base and a lacerated brain. One evening a young man applied with a cut head, having fallen off a ladder about half an hour previously, and lost his senses for a short time. He appeared tolerably well, and was chiefly admitted as a measure of precaution. In less than a week he was dead, with a recent fracture across the base of his skull. He had laboured under chronic hydrocephalus when a child, and ap- peared to have fallen down in a fit. An old woman was knocked down by a cab, and cut her head. She was not very dull, and after being dressed the policeman took her home. Her home could not be well made out; so she was admitted. The same evening she had a fit, became insensible, and died in the night. There was a large laceration of the base of the brain.* The following case of fracture of the skuU occurred in a child, and was remarkable for the slow inflammatory changes, wliich, in their symptoms and result, bore some resemblance to hydrocephalus. A child aged nine years, was admitted Tebruary 15, 1840, under Mr. Stanley, of tolerably healthy appearance, labouring under the ordinary symptoms of severe concussion, after a fall down stairs, but without any direct symptoms indicating further injury to the brain or skull, except bleeding from one ear. Trom these he recovered in one or two days; his condition was, how- ever, not that indicating complete recovery, and therefore a few * This class of coses is [Jluded (o Iiy Pr. Ahcrcronihic, and rcscmhles vciy closely the cases “ not primarily apoplectic,” described in his work on Diseases of (he Drain and Spinal Cord. 3d edilion, 1834, p. 217.