» CLINICAL COLLEC'nONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. respect. The (lihiculties of the cases, liowever, are very similar, and the difference is oftener in matters of curiosity rather than in those of absolute practical interest. Patients admitted for stran- gulated hernia, when put to bed, are sometimes found to have no rupture at all, and not even any thing the matter with them in any way; whilst at other times they have some other disease, or hernia complicated with some other ailment. This class of cases, in which the patient is a gainer, is counterbalanced however by another set, and that a most important class, in which the patient is unaware of an existing rupture, and, by ascribing its symptoms to some other cause, runs a very serious risk. Amongst patients admitted for hernia the follovdng cases oc- curred :— 1. A young woman was admitted under Mr. Skey^scare; she talked about pain, vomiting, and constipation, wliich had not been reheved by medicines taken by her, and pointed to the situation of the internal inguinal ring. Her complaints were aU a matter of description; notliing could be found; and a dose of senna mixture shewed that she had deceived herself, or that others had alarmed her unjustly. 3. Hydrocele, hernia humoralis, and hydrocele of the cord. 3. Hernia partly reduced, but still strangulated. 4. Hernia reducible, but symptoms arising from internal stran- gulation. 5. Perforation of the intestines in the abdomen, with the secretion of peritonitis filling a hernial sac. 6. A small hernia in the canal, with the secretion of fluid into the tunica vaginahs, resembhng in appearance hydrocele. Within the last few years five patients have been admitted for strangidated hernia, who had been operated on previously: four again suffering strangulation in the same rupture, and one suffer- ing from rupture of the opposite side. Of these five patients, the one having a hernia on the opposite side died from peritonitis; one of the patients with strangulation on the same side, died from the omentum pressing the bowels high up; and the other three recovered, one being about 70, one 36, and the third about 35 years of age. Tn four of these five cases the appearances were noted:—