MEIICUKY A>’B IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 237 Under the employment of a low diet and mild aperients the erup- tion often passes tlmough its early stages rapidly^ and leaves a condition of the skin which is often removed by the employment of mercury^ and winch occasionally assumes of itself the condition of health. It is when the eruption has ceased to be accompanied with any degree of fever^ when the papules begin to descj^uamate, and the eruption to appear only in a few fresh places^ that the employment of mild doses of mercury, so as to keep the gums just shghtly sore, is so beneficial, and attended with more advantage than any other mode of treatment. Under this plan, the eruption, although of many months duration, gra- dually subsides, and often leaves the skin in a perfectly healthy condition. Cases however occur, from time to time, in wliich tliis form of disease yields as httle to treatment as any sypliihtic eruption; suc- cessive crops of papules appearing as fast as one set is removed. So long as no new papules appear, the old papules sooner or later yield, but where new crops come, these cases are occasionally most techous. No plan, on the whole, however, succeeds so well as the nuld employment of mercury, conjoined vdth the warm bath and a generous diet, to which may be advantageously joined in some cases the administration of quinine. Wlien the blotches are simply copper-coloured they gradually fade with the dechne of the eruption, and though remaining for some time after the desquamation of the cuticle, yet are generally removed imder the employment of the same plan of treatment, continued for rather a longer space of time. When the blotches are of a deep purple tint, or even sometimes of the colour of venous blood, though reduced by treatment to a certain degree, they arc removed with difficulty. No plan of treatment, in some cases, seems to have the power of rapidly removing these stains, which yield more to time than any thing else, and which fortunately present the deepest tint in parts which are covered. Hydriodate of ])otash exercises a certain degree of influence in those stages of the papular cru])f ion in which mercury is emploved with bencfii, but ils influence is ccriainly very much less; and occa-