SUMMARY OF THE RESULTS OF MERCURY AND IODINE. 291 large quantities of mercury, or long standing piiniaiy disease, to which secondary symptoms may even be added, are reduced in health. To such the employment of iodine is certainly beneficial, and aids in restoring them to moderate health. The foul condi- tion of some superficial sores is at times relieved by the employ- ment of iodine, but the local application of the tincture to parts in wliich considerable swelling and inflammation exist, is some- times attended with serious injury. This small benefit derived from the use of iodine in primary dis- ease is, however, quite compensated for by the advantage gained from its employment in secondary affections. The painful affec- tions and sweUing of the bones and periosteum, gonorrhoeal rheuma- tism unaccompanied by much fever, single foul phagedsenic sores, and large phagedsenic sores scattered over the body, are relieved by iodine in a more rapid and certain manner than by any other means. Ulcers of the skin, from p:^evious venereal eruptions of any kind, occurring in patients of reduced health, but more espe- cially those following the tubercular and pustular forms, and the conical crusts of rupia, are healed by the internal administrati(fe of iodine. The same means have also been found useful after the employment of mercury in the treatment of iritis, as well as in the removal of the protrusion of lymph, which in some cases of iritis perforates the sclerotic at the margin of the cornea. In the papular and scaly eruptions sufficient benefit has followed the employment of iodine to recommend its use, where mercury is ob- jected to, but not enough to render its adoption advisable in preference to that remedy. Such are the principal individual symptoms which are relieved by iodine; but the bare enumeration of them conveys but a faint idea of the value of this remedy. These symptoms are some of the most obstinate and serious which occur in syphilitic disease, and which arc relieved but httle by mercury; these, in fact, are the affections for the cure of which the most varied remedies have been introduced at various periods, aU of which have enjoyed more or less reputation. The employment of iodine has, however, been attended ivith greater and more uniform success than any other remedy, except mercury, which has ever been introduced for the treatment of venereal diseases. Those aflections which yield