14 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. The two following cases are selected as of interest on account of the existence of the general symptoms of hernia, combined with a hernial sac in one case, and a reducible rupture on the other. In the first there was perforation of the duodenum, and in the second a displaced csecum; but in both the sjTnptoms w'ere sufficiently well marked to show that they were unconnected with the rupture. A man, aged twenty, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, one morning in a dying state. His bowels had been constipated for three days; liis beUy was very painful; and though there was no vomiting, he had some liiccup. On the left side of the scrotum no testicle could be found, and there was some mdistinct fulness at the ring. Tor ten years he had laboured under a rupture easily reducible, and also suffered from dyspepsia and constipation. The day before he was seized with pain in the beUy, such as to require liim to leave his work. A medical man took sixteen ounces of blood from liis arm, and gave him some calomel and opium followed by a black dose without any effect in opening his bowels. He died in twenty minutes after admission. Dissection shewed a round ulcer perforating the duodenum, allowing the contents of the alimentary canal to escape into the cavity of the peritoneum, wliich contained several pints of a turbid sero-purulent fluid. The left testicle was placed near the external ring in the canal, and was contained in a sac wliich communicated freely with the peritoneal cavity. No protrusion or strangulation existed. In the following case the marked signs of strangulation existed in a patient labouring under a considerable hernia; this hernia was, how'ever, so flaccid and reducible as to render it most proba- ble that some internal obstruction existed. An old infirm man was admitted one, Saturday evening, under Mr. Lawrence, labouring under a scrotal hernia of old standing. The hernia was soft, easy, and quite reducible, with a large ring, which could be felt quite free. The rupture had generally been more or less doivn. He had been sick, and his bowels were confined. Tor some days he had complained of uneasiness in the abdomen, and was unwell; the pain, however, increased this morning wliilst lift-