78 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. had suffered injury, and had the general symptoms of seyere injury to the head, but at the same time he had paralysis of one portio dura. Dissection shewed, what was probable, that the fractured base had included this nerve, and torn it across. It is remarkable how rarely the distinction between concussion and compression is required in relation to any operative proceeding; but the distinction of symptoms arising from a slight injury which vdll yield, and of those which are accompanied with injury to the brain or skull of an incurable nature, has to be made in almost every case. When the injury consisted in fracture alone, and was accom- panied with only slight effusion of blood, or with blood not in such quantity as to produce any marked pressure, or with blood effused in considerable quantity, but having an extenial outlet tluough the fracture or the ears, in these cases the patients have been very insensible, and had no convidsions, and generally died gradually in from twelve to thirty-six hours. Sometimes, with very severe fracture, and nothing else, the patient has failed rapidly in six hours, hke a severe case of con- cussion. Pure symptoms of severe concussion, though a source of anxiety as long as they last, may be a much more favourable sign than their absence. Although severe fractures of the skuU resem- ble cases of concussion so closely, they are generally accompanied with some peculiarity dependent either on the effusion of blood or the injury to bone; and even when such is not the case the mere lapse of hour after hour, without any unfavoui-able circumstance occurring, though no improvement takes place, often marks the case of mere concussion. Persons sometimes suffer the most severe falls, and escape; but in many cases there is no more unfa- vourable peculiarity, and no more certain sign of an injury, wliich will terminate fatally, than a rapid recovery hi a few minutes from a severe injury to the head. The statement that “ the person fell down and was quite in- sensible for a minute or two, and then got quite well, and was able to walk,” in a case of an injury likely to be followed by a fractured base, is a most suspicious thing, and in patients so situ- ated a lacerated brain or a fractured base are not at aU uncommon.