232 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGEIiY. not appear to exert any very decided influence on these grovflhs; it is true that tliey disappear occasionally duiing the employment of these means, but the clean condition in which the parts are kept is apparently the cause. Under the employment of cleanli- ness, and a constant removal of all moisture from the part, these structures generally cease to grow, and after they have got into a quiet state, the apphcation of ordijiary caustics in mild cases, and the removal with the knife in the more severe, are the easiest and most certain modes of completely removing the growths. In addition to warts there is also frequently met with another growth from the skin, or more commonly an elevation of the substance of the cutis, with swelling and some degree of inflam- mation, accompanied with a white sodden condition of the cuticle and some excoriation, from wliich a tliin acrid fluid at times exudes. To tliis the general term Condyloma is applied. These appearances present themselves under several circmn- stances, of which the following are the most common :— 1. On the scrotum in the male, and along the line of junction of the mucous membrane with the skin of the labia majora in the female, slight ulcers occur in numerous places during or im- mediately after primary disease. These growths are rare, where the patients liave been treated for the primary disease in the hospital, and are chiefly met with in persons who are neglectful of themselves in health, and have paid little attention to their disease, and appear to be the diseased remains of a shght primary sore. In men these lumps generally are rapidly removed by small doses of mercury; in women, however, they are much more intractable, but are reheved by the same plan of treatment. 2. Children labouring under the venereal disease, existing at bhth or commencing a few weeks after delivery, frequently present small growths of this kind on the skin in the neighbourhood of the anus : in general, blotches of the skin, or scaly eruption, with fissures at the angles of the mouth, are found at the same time. The same mercurial treatment which is beneficial to the general symptoms also assists in the removal of these growths. 3. This aflection occurs in patients who are suflering from scaly and tubercular syphilitic eruptions. On tlie parts exposed to moisture, as about the perineum and genital organs, patches of