119 AFFECTION OF JOINTS. flexed on the pelvis. When, however, the head of the bone is entire, the limb is generally much inverted, as well as considerably flexed. The greatest distance up the thigh to wluch the fuhiess of the synovial membrane has reached, has been six inches above the upper edge of the patella, the circumference of the joint measur- ing in tins instance nineteen inches and a half. These measure- ments were taken from the knee of an elderly man, under Mr. Lawrence^s care, who was labouring under rheumatic inflamma- tion of the joint; the synovial membrane appeared to be hardly tliickened, but to be simply distended, and great diminution of the sweUing took place under the employment of tartar emetic ointment. The possible height to which tliis membrane may reach is a matter of the greatest importance hi relation to the opening of abscesses, and to the removal of growths from the femur- It seems also that the synovial membrane, after behig much distended, recovers its natural relations slowly; and that the synovial membrane of the knee may still remain lying on the femur above its natural position, after the subsidence of its dis- tension might seem to indicate that it had recovered its natural position. The tliigh bone, though smTounded on the front and sides by the extensor muscles of the knee, affords but little origin for their fibres, the crureus and the small muscle of the knee-joint only arising from it in tliis part. This is most important in relation to the knee-joint; for it is hi this large space, extending from the tip of one side of the liiiea aspera round to the other, and separated into two divisions by the criueus, that abscesses of the largest size may accumulate. It is in this large bed of cellular tissue that a tumor, apparently only covered by the fascia lata, may lie; and here an abscess may form, which, although opened in the thigh, may, from the muscles binding it down, burst by two open- ings into the cavity of the knee-joint. The example of growths beneatl) the abdominal muscles, and the occasional difficulty of ascertaining their situation, afford parallel instances to the thigh, of the obscurity wliicli often attends an attempt at ascertaining whether a part may or may not be covered by muscle; but it re- quires an especial examination of tlie size of this deep-and free space beneath the vasti muscles, to form a correct idea of the mass