12G CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. is ill a line or rather in front of the great toe^ and being so situated is exposed to any pressure applied to the foot from before backwards. The common tight shoe is tight in two ways; by being too short from before backwards and by being too narrow at the junction of the middle and anterior thirds^ thus pressing the foot laterally and longitudinally. If the great toe is pressed laterally, it may press up the toes next to it, or if pressure is made from the front on the points of the toes, the second and other toes may be pressed up, wliilst the great toe is pressed outwardly. The joints between the first and second, and second and tliird phalanges, admit readily of flexion, but the joints between the metatarsal bones and first phalanges allow extension much more readily than flexion; consequently any shortening of the shoe extends or bends these different joints respectively. The extension of the first phalanx on the metatarsal bone precedes the bending of the second and third phalanges so clearly, that the former alteration may occur alone with only a slight degree of the latter affection; but when the phalanx is thus displaced on its long axis, it is generally carried by the lateral pressure of the shoe either above or below the other toes. This distortion, though arising generally from the pressure of the shoe, is soon rendered more marked by the action of the muscles, and indeed it is not clear that the toes may not be displaced even in bare-footed persons. The extensor tendons elevating the first phalanx, by their action on the base of the second phalanx, are incapable of extending the second on the first phalanx, from the downward pressure of the shoe, as well as from the action of the flexor tendons, which, stretched by the angle on the under surface of the metatarso-phalangeal articulation, add to the deformity by rendering the angle on the back of the toe more marked. The following is a more severe instance of the same deformity as found in a subject brought for dissection:— 3. The second, third, fourth, and fifth toes were all extended on the metatarsal bones to a very considerable angle, whilst the second phalanges were bent to nearly a right angle on the first, the third phalanges being nearly straight in relation to the second. The