ON FRACTURES OF THE RIBSj LOWER JAAV, AND PELVIS. 25 less air to move about in it, whilst a little intermediate, not small, crepitation may be heard low down on the injured side. Tliis crepitation does not generally proceed to any degree of importance, but yields to the mildest measures, and often spontaneously. The employment of opium to relieve the distress of the patient, after fracture of the ribs, is attended with as great hazard as when tliis means is employed in chronic broncliitis. Although one rib is rarely broken by itself, and the number of fractured ribs is nearly always greater than can be felt, yet the number of ribs which may be broken with impunity is very large indeed, patients recovering at times when the side is regularly crushed in. Bronchitis is the most common accident from this injury; and as the patients have often abeady been subject to this affection of the chest in a clironic form, a broken rib often brings on a serious attack. A very severe case of this affection was in the hospital in 1840-1, where the mucus at last collected in such quantity that the mabs life was in danger from suffocation. The ribs were very severely broken, but the mabs death appeared to be at hand, and vomiting seemed to afford some hope of relieving him. A strong emetic was given; the man vomited profusely, without further injury to the ribs, and with great relief. He ultimately recovered. It is very remarkable how commonly people are bled, simply because theb ribs are, or are supposed to be, broken. The reason is not very clear, but so commonly is bleeding performed under these cbcumstances, that poor patients occasionally consider its non- performance as an omission. This venesection can only have one, or perhaps two, objects in view ; the relief to the present difficulty in breathing, or a diminution of the chance of inflammation of the respiratory organs. The omission of venesection on the occurence of fracture of the ribs is not followed by any bad effects which would be prevented by its performance; neither is it more likely to be required in a sub- sequent period of the case for having been omitted at first. The inflammation of the pleura', or lungs, which arises occasionally after tliis accident, docs not depend in general on the plethoric con- dition of the individual, but on the injury inflicted on the struc- tures themselves, and arises at a short jicriod after its infliefion. These affections of the respiratory organs are attended with the