19 ON HKllNIA. Tliis patient continued in a low condition for some time, but improved considerably about the sixth day : on the evening of this day she was, however, attacked suddenly with pain in the belly with vomiting, and died on the night of the seventh day. No satisfactory evacuations occurred in this case, the only faecal evacuations occurring after the use of enemata. On examination, severe peritonitis, with effusion of blood, was found to have occurred. A curtain of great omentum was formed across the lower part of the abdominal cavity, by the union of the lower edge of this structure to the diac fossa. This curtain lay behind the right femoral ring, whilst its edge extended from the umbihcus to the pelvis on the mesial side of the ring. The in- testine, in being returned into the abdomen, had to pass round the edge of tliis omentum. The mass of small intestines wliich lay behind this portion of omentum was thickened and con- tracted, and it appeared probable that no clear passage had existed tlirough the bowels. In this case the appearance of the bowel in the sac resembled so closely that commonly found in strangulated hernia, that every object appeared to be answered by the operation. The omentum did not appear to be unusually tight, neither was its condition such as to require any interference. The distension, however, of the intestines on one side of the cord of omentum, and then- empty condition on the other, together with the marked line on the bowels from the pressure of the omentum, left no doubt that the extended sheet of omentum was the main cause of the stran- gulation, and of the fatal result. In the case just related the operation was performed with every prospect of success; the band of omentum, however, still remain- ing firm, a fatal result followed. In the following case a fatal result also followed the operation, from a similar band of omentum, the existence of wliich was known, but which was not supposed to be exercising any prejudicial inllueiice. In addition to the want of any direct proof of pressure of the omentum on the viscera, the mass of omentum obscured considerably the accurate examination of the contents of the sac. A woman, aged 67, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under Mr. Skey, on March 18th, 1843, labouring under a femoral