AFt'KCTlONS OK THE UlUNAKY AND GENITAL ORGANS. 171 the incisions ai’e made to one side of the mesial line, and the ure- thra is readied, not from the surface, but deep down and far back from one of the latend incisions. When the ui'ethra is attempted t o be reached directly and at once in the mesial line, and that from the skin rather than from the incisions ah'eady made, the danger of bleeding is just as great as where a deep mesial incision is made in the first stage of the operation for stone. It is not only the danger of wounding a regular or unusual branch of the artery of the bulb that is to be feared; the mere wound through the bulb itself dividing several small vessels may be attended in an old jierson with bleeding fatal in a few hours; and the attempts to reach the lu’ethra in the mesial line are attended as a rule Avith much more bleeding than those from the side. So far as the mere contraction of the ui’etlna is concerned, cases of effusion of urine are not generally attended \Adth so much diffi- culty as to make an attempt to divide the stricture in the incisions for rehef to the effusion, a matter of extreme consequence. After the sloughs have separated, the stricture is often very manageable, and much more so than many other cases which appear to be less severe. The diffierdt cases of stricture are not as a rule those with effusion of urine, but they chiefly occur in men of sallow appearance, past the middle period of hfe, who have laboured for years under the disease, and have always been having a httle done by one person after another, but have never made up their minds to consider themselves ill, and to make it their great object to get regidai'ly well. Bad as an effusion of urine may be, and dangerous to life as it often is, it may be a much less serious ailment than a urinary fistula, Avhich merely dribbles a few drops, but may still gradually destroy the patient^s life. The artery of the bulb may lie in such a position that it could not well escape in lithotomy, and may be of such a size as to bleed nearly as much as the pudic :—In a body brought for dissection, the pudic artery of each side divided opposite the tuber ischii into two branches—the continued trunk, and the artery of the bulb. 1 he artery ot the bulb ran forwards and inwards, and after passing near the outer edge of the trout half of the sphincter ani, entered the back and outer part of the bulb. After the operation tor lithotrity, as well as from small calculi