16 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. and contained half a pint of serous fluid. Whilst the bowel was being felt for high up out of sights and before any thing had been divided^ the bowels were profusely open, and in such a way as to shew that the purgative medicine had passed through, no injection having been given. It seemed that the evacuation of tliis mass of fluid had relieved the stricture. She got quite weU. In tliis case the escape of the fluid seemed to allow the return of a bit of bowel just caught in the ring, without any division of the stricture. The following case shews a similar collection of a large quan- tity of fluid in the sac, with a recent hernia, in a young person, but where the bowel and fluid at last returned into the abdomen without operation:— A young man was admitted in the winter of 1840, under Mr. Lawrence, complaining of being sick, and of a severe pain in the lower part of his belly, chiefly on the right side. Tliis man stated that he had not had any swelling in the scrotum tiU an hour before, when it first appeared, whilst he was leaning forward and performing some work; at the same time the pain and sickness commenced. The right inguinal canal was fuller than natural; most prominent, however, just on the outer side of the external inguinal ring. The scrotum was, on the right side, distended in a round form, of the size of an orange, very tense, and exceedingly painful on pressure. The sweUing of the scrotum and canal were but slightly connected together; there was, however, sufficient fuhiess to depend either on a thick cord, or on a cord with some- thing more. The scrotum was quite transparent when a candle was held to it. The man was bled and placed in a bath, whilst the taxis was applied. Wo decided change was produced, except that some little reduction of the sweUing took place, and the pain was slightly lessened. He was then put to bed, and some senna mixture given. The man remained faint in bed for about half an hour, wdien he felt something move in the situation of the internal ring, Avith a gurgling and immediate relief to the pain, the sweUing also disap- pearing. When seen in a quarter of an hour, the two inguinal canals were equidly flat, the two sides of the scrotmn similar, the