293 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUIIGEIIY. the least to mercury, aud that condition of health which succeeds to long standing disease and to the employment of very large quantities of mercury, yield to iodine in the most marked and decided manner. So great, indeed, is the improvement from the employment of iodine in some of the cases where large cjuantities of mercury have been used, that the fact of mercury having been employed to excess may sometimes be considered in itself as a recommendation for the administration of iodine. In the great majority of cases some distinct indication may generally be found for the employment of any particular medicine, and any administration of a medicine vathout a particular reason can be avoided. Such, however, is not always the case, and amongst the means which are effectual in restoring persons to health who have laboured under the venereal disease, and who still carry about with them just enough ailment to make them invalids, but not sufficient to render them ill, iodine is sometimes employed from want of any thing more likely to do good. In such cases its employment is often followed by gradual improvement. It cannot perhaps be said that they are cured by iodine; but, what is equally satisfactory to the patient, they take iodine and get well. When iodine agrees and does good, tlie patient feels better and stronger, the appetite is often much increased, and there is a considerable increase, after its employment has been continued for some time, in the flow of urine. Wlien this medicine dis- agrees, chills not amounting to rigors are felt during the day, with occasional flushings, and the formation of pustules here and there on the face and body. In some persons a small quantity of the hydriodate of potash acts violently on the mucous membrane, the patient, in fact, being affected all at once with a violent cold, accompanied with watering of the eyes, running at the nose, and a giddy sensation in the head. This peculiar effect is sometimes seen in cases where the fuU benefit of iodine is produced. Diarr- hoea is occasionally produced by the use of hydriodate of potash, but does not assume any severe character. Salivation is described as occurring occasionally in consequence of the use of iodine. The employment of mercm-y previously, of aperient pills containing mercury, of black wash, or the pre- sence of mercurial fumes iu the same ward, render many cases