ON FRACTURES OF THE RIBS^ LOWER JAW^ AND PELVIS. 33 14th clay.—The child has now no difficulty of breathing. The two sides of the chest admit air quite freely, even at the back, on the left side. Tlie whole breathing on the left side is, however, loud and coarse, whilst the percussion is just a little less resonant on the whole of the left side than on the right. She went home soon afterwards, convalescent. Wliat was the injury here ? The lung was not tom, for there was dulness of the side instead of resonance, and the auscultatory signs of imperfect entrance of air were too sudden to be produced by an inflammatory change dependent on injury to the lung. It could only be one thing — hsemorrhage into the pleura. To this the sudden and extreme fainting, the compression of the lung unaccompanied by moist sounds, and the slow, but gradual removal of the obstruction, point. There may have been a broken rib, or not; and certaiifly without it, it would be hard to accomit for the bleeding. The following case is related on accomit of the rare oppoi-tuni- ties wdiich occm- of examining such cases. It presents a summary of the changes wdiich the chest had gradually undergone during eighteen years, after an effusion into the ca\dty of the pleura fi’om inflammation, and where, from the peculiar appearance of the plema, the cavity still remaining in it, and the condition of the lung opposite tins cavity, in connection with the history, it would seem not improbable that the fluid had been more or less completely evacuated through the bronehial tubes. In March 1840, a woman, aged thirty, w'as admitted with di'Oj)sy and diseased liver, of wdiich she died almost immediately after ad- mission. On examining the body the chest appeared peculiarly altered. No mark of any puncture could be observed outside tlie chest. The right side of the chest was f of an inch smaller in cir- cumference than the left. Tlie fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs WT.re bent inwards, and appeared to form part of a smaller circle on the right than on the opposite side, but the thickness of the ribs on tlu; two sides of the cliest was equal. The anterior mediastinum w'as filled by a dense tissue of considerable thickness, completely hiding the lungs and heart from view. The right lung was quite n-dherent to the W'alls of the chest by the thickened pleura, the thickness of this being on the upper lobe, and iqiper part of the middle D