160 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. union of the cavity of the hydrocele had not occurred. It would seem that in these cases the fluid was not again secreted, in con- sequence of a change effected on the membrane by the injection into the cavity of the hydrocele, in the same manner as the removal of the fluid is procured, and its recurrence prevented, in the hydro- celes of cliildren, by external stimulating applications to the skin. Cases of haematocele engrafted on hydrocele are common, but it does not appear that hsematocele has been observed to commence as such. The following case commenced as a simple hsematocele, if the man gave a true account. He appeared to have no peculiar motive for deceit, and would probably have noticed a hydrocele if it had existed:—A man, aged 71, was admitted under Mr. Law- rence, for a sweUing of the scrotum on the right side, red, painful, tense, opaque, fluctuating, and apparently pointing; the left side of the scrotum and left testicle were natural. He gave the following history :—Three weeks since he was well in every respect, especially about his private parts. One day, after passing his motions, he perceived a swelling on the right side of the scrotum, wliich was free from pain, and appeared to liim to have come of itself. In two days the swelling increased rapidly, nearly to its present size, and its subsequent increase has taken place gradually. The swelling was opened, and thirty ounces of a bloody fluid, with coagula, were discharged. The right testicle appeai’ed to be of the natural size, when examined before the man went out. After remaining about six weeks in the hospital, he left, weU. The bloody fluid of hsematocele varies much; it may be coffee- coloured, Muth an oily fluid floating on the top, or a bloody fluid mixed with clots, or blood, or a substance hke treacle. It does not appear that the nature of the fluid in these cases has much influence on the chance of its removal, or that a coagulating fluid will be absorbed sooner than one wdiich remains fluid, or vice versa, and even a fluid which remains as such, in the tunica vaginalis, may not have lost its coagidating property when let out. In the following case, a hsematocele, which probably contained fluid blood, was rapidly absorbed: — A man, under Mr. Lawrence^s care, had a hydrocele, which after tapping filled with blood; this blood was let out in nine days, in a fluid form, with a trocar.