113 AFFECTIOT^S OF JOINTS. distant period, to disease. After a complete recovery for tliree years, disease in the hip may occur, in an otlierwise healthy person, so entirely unconnected with any recently acting cause, that it can only be considered as the lighting up of an old rheumatic affection. Cases are occasionally met with of disease commencing suddenly in a joint without any evident cause, and terminating rapidly in firm anchylosis. In these cases pain occurs suddenly, without any evident cause, in one of the joints of a person in good health; this is rapidly followed by swelling of the joint, or of the wdiole hmb, with general fever. Trom the first there is the most acute pain on moving the joint, but no very severe pain at other times, except in occasional paroxysms during sleep. At the end of tlnee or four months, the inflammatory part of the affection is removed under treatment, leaving the hmb in its natural condi- tion, except that the affected joint is firmly anchylosed. The cases related below are instances of this affection in the elbow joint of women: looking to the result, it would seem, from the very shght degree of motion observed ultimately in these two cases, that the union was not then formed by bone, whilst the short period in which the disease ran its course, the sohdity of the joint resulting from it, and the want of any indica- tion of suppuration, pointed to the probability of the disease con- sisting in the effusion of lymph into the joint, or the union of the two articular surfaces by granulations. 1. A girl, aged 19, was admitted into the hospital. May 10, 1842, under Mr. Stanley; she was pale, but moderately healthy, menstruating naturally, labouring under slight general fever, with a small but hard pulse, sufferiug chiefly from an affection of the arm. The right arm, from the fingers to about the insertion of the coraco-brachialis, is swelled, with some firmness, but without any redness of the skin. The elbow is slightly flexed, and free from any severe pain, except on motion, which produces the greatest agony. Previous to the 2nd of May she was quite weU. On this day she was cutting some bread, when she M^as suddenly seized with so severe a pain in the elbow that she dropped the knife, and has been quite unable since to use the elbow or arm for any pm*])ose. She has been chiefly confined to her bed, the pain not being gene- I