30 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. made an out-patient on account of his fits. At the end of three weeks a seton in the neck was ordered. When the seton was about to be put in, he complained of liis jaw being often painful in front. His jaw w^as found broken, and still loose: he was ad- mitted, but it united very slowly. It would be difficult to give a satisfactory explanation of the following case. It is that of a woman who suffered from a frac- ture of the jaw, which injury was followed by most serious and sudden disturbance of the nervous powers of the eye : this affec- tion yielded very considerably to mercury and other means, but ultimately sight was completely lost in one eye. Mary Burward, let. 43, admitted Sept. 25th, 1840, under the care of Mr. Lawrence, in good health, vdth a fracture of the lower jaw near the symphysis, and considerable ecchjonosis of the eye- lids and surrounding skin, from the passage of a wheel over the head. She continued pretty well for the first two or three days. As the swelling round the eyes diminished, some ecchymosis ap- peared to have taken place on the ocular conjunctiva; she was, however, able to see distinctly. On the 28th, 29th, and 30th, slight delirium tremens, with restlessness, occiuTed, wliich was relieved by gin in small quantities, ivith porter. She took dm-ing these three days, gin Ojss.; porter, Oj.;—these produced com- plete rehef from the delirium tremens. Oct. 2d.—This morning she said that she had entirely lost her sight, not being able to distinguish light from darkness. The conjunctivBe- of both eyes are marked with ecchymosis, chiefly on the temporal side of the eye; no opacity is distinguishable in the cornea or deeper parts; the pupils are veiy much dilated, and also drawn somewhat upwai'ds; no motion of the iridcs is percepti- ble on exposure to a strong light. Pulse about 120, feeble, and free from any hardness ; slight pain in tlie head, not, liowever, so severe as to induce her to complain without being questioned; the bowels are open. She was ordered three leoches behind the ears; a blister to tlie nape of the neck; Hydr. c. Greta gr. ijss. every six hours. Oct. 5th.—No imjn’ovcment. The pulse is rather more forcible than natural, but still weak; the pupils continue dilated; the mouth is not affected.