MEECUUY AND IODINE IN VENEUEAL DISEASES. 245 curring alonej makes up for this peculiarity by its extreme severity. Tliis ulcer is extremely painful, and extends deeply, so that a part appears to be gouged out. It is sometimes so deep that a portion of the tibia is exposed and lies dead at the bottom of the ulcer. The ulcer is of a round or oval form, of the size of a half-crown, surroimded by a sharp margin which separates it from the surrounding shining and inflamed integument. The sui'face of the sore is covered with a thick layer of matter, mixed with a firm substance of a brown or black colour. Tliis ulcer is generally accompanied with pains in the bones and scalp, and occasionally with swelling of one testicle, or a few blotches from the cicatrices of a pustular eruption. Tliis sore occurs generally late, sometimes at the distance of nine or even twelve years from the cure of the primary disease, and commences as a hard patch of skin or a vesicle, which continues for some time in a tolerably quiet state, but at last, from being opened, or from some irregularity in treatment or on the part of the patient, becomes converted into a foul sore. It is not unusual for these patients to mention that the original primary disease was of a severe kind, or that they employed mercury very largely for a rmld sore, and were profusely salivated. These patients are generally reduced; quite unable, from their pain, to get a good night^s rest, and utterly unfit for any active treatment. The administration of a grain-dose of opium at night, with good nutritious diet, even sometimes with wine, does much for the cure of these patients ; but a good deal more may still be done. The employment of hydriodate of potash is attended with the most marked benefit in relieving the pain and improving the condition of the sore, so that a foul ulcer of a month^s duration may thus often be converted into a healing sore in a week. The only doubt about the employment of mercury in these cases is in reference to its local application, its internal use not being at all equal to that of the preparations of iodine. The application of black wash to the sore, even in its ulcerated stage, often produces a marked change for the better, whilst the same benefit in an equal degree occasionally also attends the employment, of the balsam of Peru.