138 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. free exposure, and the turning out of the metatarsal from the cuneiform bone is attended with extreme suffering. The amputation of the leg low down, just above the ankle, gives the advantage of a long straight limb, and seems to be attended with much less risk of a bad stump, than the partial amputation of the foot:— In the spring of 1844, a man was in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Stanley, mth a diseased foot, the extent of which was so very doubtful, that the question was rather where to amputate the leg, than how much to remove from the foot itself. In the consultation as to the propriety of the measures to be adopted in this case, Mr. LavTence mentioned the success which had attended a case where he had performed amputation low down near the ankle, for a severe injury of the foot, the remaining part of the leg being most useful, making a good stump, and enabling his patient to lead an active life, in which he constantly used liis limb. Mr. Stanley amputated the limb, by a double flap operation, about four inclies above the ankle-joint. The note at the end of the case is in the following words :—“ The stump is good, soft, and bears weight well upon a short wooden leg, with wliich lie walks so well that one could hardly tell that he was lame.’^ Ulceration occurring in a stump, which is formed by the separa- tion of dead parts by ulceration after injury or amputation, is an evil of a very serious kind, not only on account of the extreme difficulty of healing the part, but because the part after heahng is liable to become a sore on slight occasions. In the healthy skin the line of demarcation between the cutis and the subjacent tissue, however minutely the skin may be hollowed out by long processes of fattv tissue on its under surface, is clear and well marked. Every thing is distinct, and each part is free and loose, but m a sore stump the appearances are different, though generally of one kind, from whatever cause the stump may have been produced. The bones, muscles, nerves, and vessels, are generally free from fault; the skin over the bone is the seat of mischief. It is tight, adherent to the hone beneath; the surface is shining, or marked with small cicatrices, and on cutting it through, the thickness of cutis is very slight, and a dense tissue is reached before passing through any depth of skin. This tissue is not separated from