244 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. rally occur in persons of weak liabit of body, and in character and appropriate treatment belong as often to the next class of ulcera- tions as to that which is here described. This class of ulcers is generally benefited by the employment of mercuiy, assisted by the local application of the yellow wash. The patient’s health in general offers no objection to the employ- ment of mercury, wliilst tliis medicine is sometimes more forcibly indicated by the existence of the scaly eruption, and the excavated ulcer of the tonsil. When the ulcers have no tendency to the semicircular form, and mercury has not been employed in a decided manner, the benefit resulting from the cautious admi- nistration of it in these cases is sufficient to justify its use as the means most likely to bring about a complete and perma- nent cm-e. 2. The large phagedaenic ulcers of the skin form a well marked class by their visible characters, as well as by the treatment which they require. These ulcers are not deep, and do not generally go through the entire substance of the skin; they are generally of an oval or semicircular form, and spread on one side, wliilst heal- ing on the other, so that a peninsula of cicatrix extends into the concavity of the sore. These sores are remarkable for the size to which they sometimes extend, especially when situated over one of the joints; the largest sores of tliis class being also very liable to occur on corresponding parts of the two sides of the body. In no cases is the hydriodate of potash more beneficial than in the treatment of this class of sores. The administration of twelve or fifteen grains of this substance daily vdth sarsaparilla produces the most marked change in the sore, and in the general condition of the patient’s health. The degree of benefit thus pro- duced is greater than that which follows the use of any other means, and though occasionally even this medicine fails, the result of its employment is on the whole so good that a confident hope of cure may be entertained from its use. 3. It is not very uncommon to meet with patients whose chief venereal disease consists in a few deeply excavated ulcers of the skin, or whose sole complaint is a single ulcer, which, though oc-