48 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. and threw him off liis balance: fearing that the barrow and lie would fall together, he instinctively threw himself backwards and jerked his legs up in the air, and hc’believes that in this act he suffered the injury. On being admitted, he was placed on a high inchned bed. 29th day.—The patella has descended nearly but not quite to its natural situation; the parts around the knee are swelled and thickened. He still continues bn the high bed. Tliisman went out of his own accord, the parts being still some- what separated, and the limb then not very useful. Jan. 27.—This man has been readmitted; the knee inflamed and painfid, whilst the patella is a full inch and a half above its natural situation, and situated entirely on the front of the femur. Feb. 12.—The knee is painful, the patella not yet depressed. Feb. 20.—"When he walks about, the knee inflames; this however, partially subsides with rest. The patella is so much dis- placed, that its lower end is as high as the natural position of its upper edge. April 1.—He has been discharged. The knee is free from pain or heat, quite straight, and able to bear his weight. It is, how- ever, not capable of being bent, and is thickened considerably in the parts round. The inflammatory changes appear to have been completely arrested; the joint, however, is not sufficiently cured to allow him to walk about, or to follow liis employment. The patella is still above the joint, resting entirely on the femm-. Dislocations of the knee are not common. Here are, hoiv- ever, two cases, one of dislocation of the knee forwai-ds, and the other outwards. A man, aged 19, was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, Dec. 29, 1839. He was carried in lying on his abdomen, one limb shorter by tliree inches than the opposite one, the tibia evidently driven forwards, its flat articular upper surface being distinguishable, and the condyles of the femur projecting into the popliteal space; the ligamentum patellie was relaxed. Mdien drunk, he had jumped ten feet from a height with his knees bent, came on his feet, and then fell on his back. He became immediately sensible of great pain, and tried to relieve it by pressing on his knee. The knee was easily reduced hy extension, and laid on Mr.