162 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUHGERY. all precaution, and apparently without puncturing the cutaneous veins. Where does the blood really flow from in these cases ? It - flows rapidly, without ecchyinosis of the scrotum, and often flows again and again, if it is repeatedly evacuated by the trocar. Three sets of vessels may pour out blood under these circumstances. The vascular lining of the tunica vaginalis has appeared on dis- section to have been the source of the effused blood,* in addi- tion to which the plexus of veins on the cord might readily pour out blood, as in the case of the spontaneous hsematocele abeady related. In addition to these vessels inside the sac, there is another set of vessels, distant from the skin, large in size, close on the tunica vaginabs, quite out of sight, and more or less closely connected with the spermatic plexus of veins, which is very sparingly supplied with valves. If, in the dead body of a person labouring under hydrocele, an incision be made over the ring, and the hydrocele be pulled out of the scrotum, the cutaneous veins and skin are left, and the cord with the hydrocele is lifted up. But the hydrocele is not bare, but running on its surface, and ahnost in its coats, may often be seen veins of considerable size, not passing to the peri- neal veins and the cutaneous veins of the thigh, but connected more or less with the large veins of the cord itself. Here is a possible source of blood, which the eye would not detect, and which might pour out blood under those very circumstances, wliich are not clearly explained, if the blood be supposed to come from the cutaneous vessels of the scrotum alone. The number of cases of retention of urine occurring in a large hospital in the course of the year is large, and some of these are very important. Cases of retention of urine, from mere nervous feehngs, and those from real disease, resemble each other at times very closely :—A young M-oman was in the hospital under Mr. Lawrence's care, with obscure symptoms relating to the brain : she went out, but returned again. This second time her symptoms increased, and she died. Even on her second admis- sion her real ailments were not very clear, and loss of power in voiding the water came on in such a manner as to appear hardly * Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Joiu-uul, vol. xxxm. p. 325.