MEttCUR\ AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. E23 V disease in a more rapid and complete manner than any known means; and after the sepai'ation of the slough, the surface generally granulates well, and heals rapidly. Now and then the restorative processes are tardy after the sore has granulated for a few days; and although matters do not go back they are very slow in going forwai-d. T\T.ien the sore becomes tardy, the same treatment is required as in similar venereal sores which have been unaccompanied by any sloughing process. Although no explanation of this fact can be w'ell given in some of these cases, yet occasionally there appears to be a sufficient ex- planation of the benefit arising from the application of the nitric acid, as well as of the subsequent want of progress. Slougiiing phagedsena, though commonly a clear and unmixed process, at times commences in a part already ulcerated, and the part presents a mixture of foul ulceration and slougiiing, rather than simple sloughing phagedaena. In the mass of filth wliicli covers a slough- ing phagedfEnic sore, minute distinctions cannot readily be made, but ulceration immediately before the occurrence of the sloughing will sometimes be found to have occurred in those cases where the parts heal slowly after the separation of the slough, and where the disease, though brought within ordinary bounds by the application of nitric acid, requires for its complete cure the ordinary treatment of venereal disease. The treatment of the vaiious forms of primary disease with mer- cury and simple means is generally quite sufficient, and requires the introduction of no new medifcine ; the disease, in short, going through a regular course, and being relieved by the means em- ployed, in the same manner, and iti an equal degree, to that which is seen in other ulcerative aifections. The progress of primary disease in the wards of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where the treatment just described is practised, is attended with less in- terruption, and with fewer accidental occurrences, than the pro- gress of any other equally important affection. It is true there are occasional accidents in this, as in every other affection, but tliey are ceilainly not cammon. The (lucstions now remaining to be answered are these ;—Are the results of the employment of iodine in primary disease equal to those of mercury ? and, secondly, is iodine beneficial in any of those forms of |)rimary disease where mercury is injurious ?