IIG CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURO'ERY. on the supposition of the lengthened capsule allowing the head of the femur to be separated from the acetabulum by fluid, in the same manner as it may be by air in the dead body, and being sub- sequently drawn from its new position upon the dorsum ilii by the action of the muscles :— A girl, aged six years, was admitted May 4, 1843, under Mr. Stanley, of delicate appearance, not very tliiii or mdiealthy in form or other respects, but labouring under lameness of the right hip. The child is slightly lame, and unwilhng to move the right limb, the hip-joint of wliich is painful when moved. The pelvis is drawn up, and renders the limb apparently short; but nothing like decided shortening or dislocation can be seen. It appears tliat one month since the child feU down and hm-t her liip. Two weeks since she complained of pain, which has increased since to such a degree as to require her admission into the hospital. She was ordered to be kept quiet in bed, and a poultice was applied round the joint. . She lay in bed for six weeks, when the hip was again examined. There appeared to be no cause for anxiety in this particular case, as the child appeared to be going on well. The following was, however, the condition of the joint. The distance between the knee and anterior superior spine is shortened one inch and a half, the Hmb very shghtly inverted, the head of the bone carried right upwards and backwards, espe- cially in the latter direction, on the dorsum ilii. The parts are to be freely felt in their new situation, where they are flxed, nearly free from pain, and vdthout surrounding thickening in any marked degree. This girl went out in October, tolerably well in health, the hmb remaining in the same condition. The thickening round the head of the femur was not great, and the head of the femur appeared to be entire. Such was the result in a case wliich, on admission, did not pre- sent one single feature to distinguish it from a class in which the changes are genendly slow, and in which a dislocation of the joint unattended by destructive changes either in the acetabulmn or femur would not be thought probable. It seemed that in this case the bones were probably entire, and that the case may be