MEIICITHY ANl) IODINE IN VENEEEAL DISEASES. 231 after another, it exceeds every form of primary, and most of the varieties of secondar}^ disease. The following are some of the pecuharities which a case of this kind presents. A man (for women are rarely affected "with this form of disease) presents liimself with the appearance of moderately good health, and without any particular fever or constitutional distm’bance, hut complaining of a sore in the groin. On examination a line of ulcers parallel to Pouparffs hgament, and sometimes extending down along the perineum towards the anus, is discovered. This may be found on one or both sides, and the ulcers may form a chain all along the above-mentioned space, or they may be only three or four in number. These ulcers are partly cicatrized and partly spreading, the spreading part being generally the upper edge. The edges of the sore are ragged, undermined, and accom- panied with considerable inflammation of the smTounding skin, whilst the sm’face of the sore is of a dh’ty-brown colour, and covered only with a tliin secretion. The age of a sore of this kind is not always reckoned by weeks or months, but by years, and it is the especially incurable form of primary disease. One means after another sometimes fails in completely removing this affection, and the treatment, which consists in common attention, and guarding against all accidental impediments to the healing of the part, seems sometimes to be the best plan, and that wliich is most calculated for the cure of the part, by allowing it to run its own course. Iodine seems to exercise no influence in these cases. The em- ployment of mercury has been very strongly recommended in their treatment; tliis remedy being administered in very small quan- tities, so as to aflect the system very slowly, and to keep it under its influence for some time. The employment of mercury in this manner has been tried at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and with decided improvement in the part, the improvement being slow, but greater than that derived from the use of any other means. Amongst venereal patients growths from the skin about the genital organs, and occasiontdly about other parts, are frequently met with. Warts of the largest and smallest size ' are very common, and though tedious in their treatment at times, yet at last arc removed. Tlie preparations of iodine and mercury do