INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. 75 The child had fallen two stories on her head into the road^ injuring at the same time the right hand. She was picked up senseless, and brought to the hospital dii’ectly. 4th day.—The child lies on its back, unable to recognise any persons. She can move both her arms and legs. Breathing hurried, and pulse very frequent, small, and quite hard. Pupils contracted, not very sensible of light. She has taken no nourishment since admission: the bowels are quite confined. A bloody and watery fluid has continued to fiow from the bottom of the right ear up to the present time in small quantities, and collects in the concha of the ear, when the child lies on the left side. The urine is drawn off by the catheter. The cliild sank and died about 4 A. M. on the fifth day. A considerable quantity of effused blood existed on the outer part of the frontal and occipital bones. On the right side a fracture passed from the wound through the petrous portion of the right temporal bone, where it divided into two other fractures; one of these extended to the sella turcica, the other to the foramen occipitale. On the parietal and occipi- tal bones, to the left side of the occipital foramen, a small quan- tity of pus was found between the dura mater and bone near the injury. The dura mater was entire and healthy every where. An ecchymosis of considerable extent, but very thin, existed over the posterior upper part of the right cerebral hemisphere. The brain was healthy, except a very small slight softening on one spot of the base of the right middle lobe; numerous small spots, of the size of a mustard seed, of effused blood, were found in the substance of the brain, crura cerebri, and walls of the ventricles. In thirteen cases of injury to the head blood or fluid flowed from the ear. Of these thirteen, seven left the hospital appa- rently well, while six died. In aU these six the petrous bone was broken, and wliere the side is mentioned the bleeding and frac- tured sides corresponded. The cases ai’e here enumerated.