227 iriiKCURY AND IODINE IN VENEIIEAL DISEASES. The iiiflaiQinatory nature of these two forms of bubo, in wbich rapid suppuration or extensive effusion of lymph into the cellular tissue surrounding the glands rapidly takes place, readily accounts for the want of influence winch generally attends the employment of mercury in these cases, and explains tlie benefit wliich results from the employment of common means. Iodine applied locally in these cases does not seem to exercise any curative iuflueuce> wlulst occasionally the application of the tincture of iodine to an inflamed bubo is attended with very serious results. The applica- tion of the tincture of iodine to an inflamed bubo of large size in a young healthy person has been known to produce a large foul slough of the integuments and subjacent parts, extending by a sloughing process so rapidly into the smTOunding textures, that lai’ge doses of opium were required to reheve the pain, wliilst the pm’e nitric acid was apphed to prevent the extension of the sore. Tlie iodine ointment has been tried as a local application to reduce the hard swelling of the parts in the grom which accompanies the formation of bubo, and remains after suppuration in some persons. The effect of it is not, however, very marked, and not attended uuth such benefit as to briug it into comparison with the employment of blisters and the other ordinary means used in such cases. In the cases just considered the affection of the glands was accompanied with considerable inflammation, and often attended with very much more disease of the surrounding cellular tissue than of the glands themselves. The other class consists of cases in which the glands alone are gradually enlarged, or in which, with the affection of the glands, considerable thickening of the surrounding parts gradually takes place; the disease, in fact, being attended here with more affection of the glands, and less of the cclhdar tissue, than in the jireccding cases. It is in this class of cases that the employment of mercuiy is often attended vith great benefit. Tlie glands of the gi'oin sometimes enlarge to a very considera- ble degree, without afl'cetion of the surrounding cellular tissue lo any extent, and witliout any very marked degree of inflamma- tion, the chief inconvenience lieing lhat of a swelling in tlie thigh, with dull aching pain. 7\t other times Ihe ('idargement