102 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SURGERY. who have been already reduced by want and misery, and then this low condition adds most materially to their illness, whether it be that wliich is capable of rehef by operation, or be real orga- mc disease. It seems that under these circumstances patients labouring under organic disease may sink before their time, or before the disease has reached its ordinary fatal period, from the additional illness induced by poverty or mental distress. Ifor in- stance, the following case of hernia appeared to terminate fatally, not by its actual severity, but from many circumstances collectively, reducing the patient’s powers. A woman, only tliirty-tlmee years of age, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, ivith a small femoral hernia, which had become stran- gidated a week previously: she appeared not to have been regu- larly treated by any body, but somebody had sent her some medi- cine. The abdomen was flaccid, and nearly free from pain; the tougue was stdl moist; the hernia unaccompanied by much pain; and the pulse simply feeble. She had, however, constipation, foetid vomiting, and the rupture was nreducible. In appearance she was tliiu and haggard, with sunken eyes, and seemed so broken down by want of every kind, that she appeared hardly aware of the danger of her condition, and almost inattentive to pain. The stricture was not close; there was some fluid in the sac, Avith a portion of dark but healthy small intestine. After the operation she ivas uneasy, and lay with her legs drawn up; the pulse was 100, and became decidedly hard. Twenty leeches were apphed to the surface of the abdomen, and the pulse became soft. She took one draclim of Epsom salts, and was purged even by this quantity. She gradually died. Dissection shewed the bowel, which had been returned, lying near the femoral ring, and coated with a thin layer of lymph, its mucous membrane red, and slightly ulcerated in one spot. There was some little vascularity of the peritoneal coat of the small intestines, and a small quantity of clear fluid in the pelvis. Again; in this case, however, the man laboured under slight disease of many organs. A man of 22 years of age was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, in a state of extreme weakness, so that he tottered, when he tried