MALIGNAJTT DISEASE. 203 saukj lier deatli beiug mucli hastened by copious arterial bleed- ing which occurred from the part. On examination, thickeniug of the parts was found to extend up along the subclavian artery, so that it could be found with diffi- culty, and probably could not have been tied, if that operation had been required. The axillary artery and vein were also much pressed upon by the diseased glands. Several branches of the axillary aidery were included in the indurated part, but no open mouth of any paxticidar vessel coidd be seen. The mammary gland was affected with carcinoma on the side next the axilla; a very considerable part of the gland, however, being healthy. Mahgnant growths form at times in the neck in a slow and quiet manner, hke scrofulous enlai'gements of the glands, and resemble them so closely at an early period, that it is difficult to pronounce on the exact nature of a sweUing so formed. These swellings are single, slow in progress, deeply seated, and quite loose for a long time, presenting characters wliich might thus belong either to an enlarged scrofulous gland, or to a malignant tumor:— 1. A man, about 25, apphed at the hospital with a tumor like an enlarged gland, low down on one side of the neck. It was single, had come of itself, and the man appeared well, but notliing did it any good. He went into the country and returned, and was seen some time afterwards, dying. The swelling had grown to a large size, impheating the surrounding structures, and was evi- dently a malignant growth. The following case was even more slow in progress, and appa- rently had suppurated partially, yet examination shewed it to be real encephaloid disease:— 2. A man, aged 38, admitted May 9, 1842, under Mr. Law- rence, with a firm growth, as large as a fist, round, hard, situated between the base of the skull and fifth cervical vertebra, and reaching from the right side of the spine to the side of the right stemo-thyroid muscle. The skin is quite adherent to it, wliilst at its deeper part the tumor appears to be connected with the spine and oesophagis. The sterno-mastoid is either implicated in the tumor or wasted. No difficulty of swallowing or breathing exists. No disease of the glands on the opposite side of the neck in the