INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. 85 he passed his urine without the use of the catheter. On the fifth day he moved both his legs. On the fortieth day he was dis- missed, being able to walk with a stick, but somewhat feeble. The spine had become straighter, but still retained its convex form and separation between the spinous processes. In tliis the symptoms were more severe than in the following case, wliich presented many similar features, but less severe symp- toms. The injury arose from a fall, and was at exactly the same spot. A man,* aged 3^, fell thii-ty feet, from a scaffold, and was insensible for a short time. The body was found to be much bent, with an angular projection from displacement of the first lumbar and last dorsal vertebrae. There was considerable tumefac- tion over the bones, with a depression to the extent of about an inch between the most projecting spinous processes, whilst the transverse processes stood out so much, that they pressed against the skin. There was no diminution of sensation, or motor power, in the lower limbs, or any other part. He left the hospital about five weeks after admission, having remained free from any symptoms of injury to the spinal marrow. At the end of seven weeks the man remained weak in the spine, but able to raise himself into the erect position for a short time; he now supported his chest on the edge of a table, when sitting down, and by resting his hands on liis thighs when walking. At the end of two years his back was stiU weak, but flexible at the part injured, whilst the bones projected considerably against the skin. He was able to walk, between two and three miles daily to his work, as a bricklayer, and return in the evening : this he had done during a year and a half. A very similar case is also recorded,!* in whicli, from a fall on the back, the lower part of the body was carried forwards, whilst the upper part was carried somewhat backwards; so that at the eleventh dorsal vertebra the spine projected, whilst between the spinous process of that bone, and the spinous process of the last * Alex. Shaw ; Medical Gazette, vol. xvii. p. 937. T Case of Dislocation and Fracture of the Eleventh and Twelfth Dorsal Verfehrae, by R. A. SlalTord : Med. Gazette, vol. xvii. p. 873.