30 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. We asked his friends for any particulars which might explain he difficulty, and learned the following circumstances:— Four months before his death he was sitting in a chair, and was suddenly seized with most acute pain in one side, which caused such a sense of suffocation as to threaten his hfe. From this he recovered in an hour, and had afterwards no difficulty of breathing. The degree of injury inflicted on the lungs by fracture of the ribs varies much. Thus even with fracture of three or four of the ribs, and general adhesions of the pulmonary and costal pleura, the lungs sometimes entirely escape injury, if the ends of the ribs are broken in a simple transverse manner, and not so as to form acute points. It is not at all uncommon to find the pleura cover- ing broken ribs uninjured and quite entire. Fractui'e of a rib from great pressure is sometimes accompanied with such injury to the lung and pleura as to excite suppuration round the injured rib, and cause mortification of a neighbouring part of lung, terminating fatally by haemorrhage from the wound vdth haemoptysis. A man was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under Mr. Lawrence, in the summer of 1842, with fracture of the lower jaw, and injury to the upper part of the chest, from a wheel passing over it. He went on pretty well till the fourteenth day, when an abscess formed over the first and second ribs, beneath the pectoralis major, attended with an im- pulse on coughing, and containing about six ounces of well-formed matter without any mixture of air. The abscess discharged, without materially affecting the man’s health, till the twenty-first day, when haemoptysis, accompanied with profuse arterial haemorrhage from the abscess, occurred, under which he sank in two days. On examination, the first rib of the right side was found sepa- rated at its junction with the sternum, whilst the periosteum was separated from the first rib nearly as far back as its spinal extre- mity. An abscess of the capacity of half a pint was found round the sternal extremity of the rib, covered in front by the pectoralis major, and behind by a portion of the front surface of the lung, which was adherent to the ribs round the edges. A part of the lung forming the floor of the abscess was dead, and partially sepa-