IbS CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. vulcsccTit in tlic liospital Rfter efftisioii of urines vvliicli hsicl occurred after fcver^ and had not been preceded by any severe stricture. In- cisions had been freely made, and this man then was nearly well. Malignant disease of the testicle may commence with very deceptive symptoms, and run a most rapid course. The particulars of the following case are related at length : they are those of a boy in whom the testicle swelled slowly after gonorrhoea, and induced him to apply for relief, after some time, at the hospital. The testicle was removed soon after admission, but the boy died within nine months of the commencement of his illness :— A pale, thin, and slightly sallow boy, eighteen years of age, admitted July 23, 1843, under Mr. Lawrence, labouring under a BweUing of the left side of the scrotmn, wLich forms a long oval swelhng, terminating roundly just outside the external inguinal ring, enlarging slowly as it descends, and of a somewdiat square form. The sw^eUing is quite opaque in aU parts, about eight inches vertical by tlu-ee and a liaK inches horizontal measurement at its lowest part, tense, with distinct fluctuation in the upper half, and indistinct fluctuation in the middle and front part of the sw'elhng. The back part of the swelling is firm and hard, this fidness extending to the upper part of the swelling; the cord does not feel hard nor large, but the tumor passes so close to the ring that slight fulness might exist there wdtliout being very plain. He complains of heavy pain on the right side of the loins; no tumor can, how^ever, be felt there. Seven months since a gonoiThceal discharge from the urethra gradually ceased; and thus he w^as quite free from any affection of the genital organs. One month afterwards, that is, six months since, the scrotmn began to swell, which swelling increased till five w^eeks since, wdien it reached its present size; this swelling commencing with some pain and heat, but at the lower part of the scrotum. Five weeks since he got medical advice, and w'as directed to lie in bed, and apply iodine to the part. Under this treatment the sw^efiing is said by him to have diminished some little. During the last three weeks he has experienced pain in the loins, on the right side. Aug. 1.—A trocar w'as passed into the swelling this day, when there escaped from the swelling about Jj. of a moderately clear