204 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. least degree. An opening exists in the tmnor, which has been made with a laneet, and through wliicli a foul fleshy mass protrudes. For three years he has had a small lump on the right side of the neek; about Clu’istmas, 1841, the present swelling flrst began to form, and was doubtfully connected with the tumor. Tliis was opened, and gave issue to some blood and matter of a yellow colour, and in considerable quantity. Dec. 23rd.—The man died. The tumor was found to be soft and brainlike, implicating the spine. A few similar deposits were found in the lung. The following cases are inserted to shew how long cancerous affection of the skin at the inner angle of the orbit may last without destroying hfe, as well as to shew the liability of the dis- ease to return after removal:— 1. A man applied to Mr. Lawrence in June, 1844, labouring under carcinomatous ulceration of the skin, of the two eyelids of the left eye, and of the cheek, extending also into the cellular tissue of the orbit, and leaving the ball of the eye in the middle of the orbit rather shrmik, ndth an opaque cornea, but entire. This ulcer had existed for fourteen years, and though destroying the parts so extensively had not interfered much with the patient’s health, for he was able to walk eight or ten miles daily when he chose, had a capital appetite, and seemed in no immediate danger. He appeared to be about sixty years of age. He had not found any particular application agree with it. . 2. An old man was admitted into the hospital, labouring under carcinomatous ulceration of the inner canthus of the eye and neighbouring parts. The disease had commenced two years ago, and had been removed eighteen months previously with caustic in the country. The surgeon removing it was an emi- nent and well-known man, so that the removal was probably complete. The following case illustrates the occurrence of malignant dis- ease in a neighbouring part, after removal of the eye for an incur- able growth of not very deflned character, but having some of the characters of carcinoma: — 3. John Goodwyn, aged 60, admitted Jan. 5, 1843, under Mr. Vincent, now labouring under a large tumor over the right parotid