AFFECTIONS AND INJOUIES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 145 femur, just above the condyles, making two small wounds on the inner and outer sides of the knee, which bled freely. On the 2nd day when he was seen, the limb was cold, the man restless and feverish. On the 3rd day, the limb was cold and insensible, the foot and leg blue. Vesications formed on the limb, and he died on the 5th day after the injury. The femoral artery and vein were found completely divided at the seat of the fracture. The following case of wound of the femoral artery is related on account of the place in Avhich the ligatui’e was apphed. The space between Poupart^s hgament and the aneurism was very small, but yet a ligature was apphed successfully, so far as the cure of the aneui-ism was concerned. There are other circum- stances of interest in this case, connected with the mortification of the hmb, and the pecuhar auscultatory sounds ;— Thomas Norris, aged 35, admitted under Mr. Lawrence, June 24, 1841, labom-ing under a sweUing over the right femoral artery, rather to its outer side, of the size of a fives-ball, situated a very short distance below the crural arch, accompanied with a bruit audible to the ear, and a tluill perceptible to the touch. * The bruit is loud, but not very rough, constituting a continuous murmur, vdth increased loudness at each pulse of the artery; it is audible tlirough the paiietes of the abdomen, in the course of the external iliac artery, and dovniwards in the limb, as far as the knee. In the opposite ihac no bruit is audible; and over the aortic valves a slight bruit only is audible, smooth and very shght, accompany- ing the first sound. Pulse 80, full, soft. The pulsatile thrill is felt over the vein, aneurism, and parts round; it is synclironous with the bruit in the aneurism, not separable from it, and felt as plainly over the sartorius, just on the outer side of the sac, as over the vein. Tliere is no impediment to the venous circulation, no swelling of the veins, no perceptible enlargement of the artery above, and no difference in the pulsation of the vessels of the feet in the two limbs. Thirteen weeks since, whilst carrying a knife in his pocket, he stooped, and caused the point to enter his thigh, just on the outer side of the femoral artery, the knife entering about half an inch: this was followed liy immediateha!inorrliage to syncope: on L