28 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. form. A little child was brought one day for relief. He ap- peared half choked; his skin was dusky, and liis conjunctiva quite loaded with blood. He had had a tremendous squeeze, which seemed to have done his frame no harm, except that by strain- ing he had ruptured many small blood-vessels, or dilated them for the time. The following case shews the degree of pressure which the ribs of children wiU bear without breaking. In this case the chest ■was compressed to such a degree as to rupture the bronchus, and yet without breaking the ribs. A little boy, about five years of age, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under Mr. Stanley, in the winter of 1842, having been pressed between a wheel and the wall of a street. Within five minutes of admission, the face, arms, and chest, w^ere emphysematous, the right side of the face being the first bare part affected. Witliin one hoiu- the cluld was quite emphysematous from the forehead to the ankles, with hoarse breatliing and cough. He lay chiefly on liis back. The skin was so tense in eight hours that a puncture w^as made in it, from wliicli a stream of air flowed freely, with rehef to the emphysema. On the fifth day the child began to He con- stantly on the right side; and on the eighth he sat up a little time in bed, but lay nearly alw^ays on his right side; the emphysema was now almost removed. On the thirteenth day his breath be- came so foetid, that he was removed to a separate w^ard, and he gradually died on the seventeenth day, ha\ung continued to He from the fifth day to lus death on his right side; the extreme fcetor of the breath, and difficulty of breatlung, with cough, having existed from about the thirteenth day. On dissection all the ribs were entire. The right lung was col- lapsed, but not wounded, wdiilst the plem-a of that side w'as covered by false membrane, and contained ten ounces of pus, not foetid. The right bronchus was torn across in half its diameter, just at its division into smaller brandies; the edges of the mucous membrane round the w'ound being very red and vascular. The following case is inserted here in reference to tlie escape of air into the jileura, and its effects. In the last case the air in the jileura appeared to have produced a fatal result; in the following