158 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. CHAPTER XL AEFECTIONS OE THE URINARY AND GENITAL ORGANS. Hycli'ocele; emplojTiient of wine, iodine, and sulphate of zinc, for its cure. Cure from incision and simple puncture. Hydi’oceles cured by injection, but recur- ring in two, six, and seven yeai’s. Hscmatocele apparently commencing as sucli. The fluid of hscmatocele. Hscmatocele cm’ed by cold applications. Soiuxe of the blood in hscmatocele. Retention of mane in women, after fracture, and from retained menstrual secretion. Case of hsematuria of an obscure nature. Bladder suddenly recovering its power in paraplegia. Urethra ulcerating dmang con- valescence from fever. Malignant disease of the testis fatal in a few months in one case, and progressing slowly for seven years in another. Danger of incisions in the middle of the perineimi. Unusual course of the artery of the bulb. Calculi lodged in the urethra. Stone drawn out of the bladder by a sound. Hydroceles are injected, at St. BartholomeVs Hospital, vdth port wine, pure or dilute; a solution of sulphate of zinc, in the propor- tion of about 5j. to a pint of water, and tinct. of iodine, diluted with water, in the proportion of 5j. to 3vj. Of all these methods the wine is most generally used; the cases in which it fails are very few, and the pain succeeding the operation is very slight. The pain wliich follows the use of the sulphate of zinc and iodine is occasionally very severe, lasts for some hours, and is hardly to be relieved by any means. When the tincture of iodine is employed, one draclun or more of the solution is left in the hydrocele. Where the diluted wine and iodine both fad, the sulphate of zinc has succeeded. A simple incision with a lancet is sometimes successful:—A man had a hydrocele, wliich was injected with port wine. The fluid collected again; a free opening with a lancet was made by Mr. Lawrence, and the fluid evacuated. The wound gradually closed, and the fluid did not again collect, whilst the man was under observation.