CIUCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 99 resists the powers of disease in a degree equal to that of the healtliiest man. These cases are^ however, exceptions, and the patient by his own words sometimes announces that he considers his recovery, after such a mode of Hfe, as contrary even to his oum expectation. Of all diseases of internal organs produced by drinking, the granular hver seems to have attracted most attention. Perhaps justly; but there is no doubt that of all organic diseases, the two most to be feared in intemperate persons with recent surgdcal in- juries are, the granular kidney, and slight but general emphysema, with a dilated, but not always much diseased, heart; and in per- sons past the middle period of hfe, dying rapidly in hospitals after ojierations and surgical injuries, combiued with much loss of blood, these two affections of the urinary and respiratory organs are very far from uncommon. The foUomng class of cases is not uncommon: —Men are ad- mitted with shght cuts on the cliin and wounds of the scalp, which have happened one or two days previously, or they apply with recent cut heads, from which large quantities of blood are lost; erysipelas of the parts around occurs, the patients look dusky, their minds seem rather dull, and they every now and then cough, as if they were husky, or had something in their fauces. If they take antimony or purgatives, they are profusely j)urged, and lose strength rapidly. These patients have not a regular iUness, which allows time for treatment, but tbeir whole ailments seem to consist in being taken ill and then rapidly dying; they apply for admission one day, and sometimes die tlie next. These patients are generally men of a full and florid habit, rather old than middle aged, and free livers, but strong and active. In ex- amining their bodies the liver is not always much or decidedly diseased, but the kidneys are more or less granular, whilst the lungs are considerably emphysematous, and often loaded with blood and fluid. The kidney and the lung in these cases are not generally in an extreme state of disease, but disease in a shght degree is very generally distributed: thus there are no bladders or extreme emphysema of any one part of the lung, but the cells in every part arc more or less affected, whilst the kidney is not contracted, but mottled and dotted in every part.