Jiiti CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. the sister that he thought that he saw some change: at 12 noon, his urine was quite clear. On May the 9th, the urine is sp. gr. 1015, acid, with alkaline mucus; becomes just cloudy on heat, without precipitate, and is free from blood. He still passes his water as often as before. He went out May 31, quite well as regarded the bleeding, although the styptic was not again employed. Patients labouring under loss of sensation and motion in the lower extremities, sutler most from the two accompanpng mis- lortunes,—sloughing of the integuments, and loss of power in the bladder. It is remarkable, however, in some of these cases, how suddenly the patient is sometimes relieved of one of these evils, the bladder recovering its power before the other symptoms improve in any marked manner; that improvement being accom- panied by a sudden and marked change in the character of the urine :— In the winter of 1841, an old man was admitted with partial paraplegia, and some dulness of mind. The house-surgeon drew off from his bladder, one morning, seventy ounces of mine at once. For some time liis urine was drawn off twice daily; at last his urine became mixed with a copious white deposit, and puriform secretion, to a very considerable amoiuit; aU this taking place in a few days. At the same time the bladder so rapidly regained its jiower, and that in a rate quite disproportionate to liis general improvement, that the use of the catheter was no longer necessary. In two other patients a similai- improvement took place under similar circumstances; the bladder suddenly recovering its expellent power. It would appear that examination of the prostate gland by the rectum may at times give a very deceptive result. In the follow- ing case it seemed that the distended bladder, pressing on the rectum, concealed the outline of the edge of the prostate, and prevented an accurate idea being formed how much of the swelling was owing to the bladder or prostate gland respectively :— An old man, under the care of l\Ir. Lawrence, had sevei'e retention of urine, for which his bladder was tapped above Ihe os pubis. Whilst his bladder was distended, the prostate did not appear to project much into the rectum, neither ivas this