INJURIES OP HEAD AND SPINE. 83 patient seems to be doubled up, in which position the anterior surfaces of the vertebrae must form a concave, and their spines a convex line; tliis convexity being hkely to give way, if any where, at the place where the greatest extension is made. From common observation, as well as from expei-imeuts wliich have been made, it appears that the principal points of flexion of the back are three ; the first between the tliird and seventh cervical, the second be- tween the eleventh dorsal and second lumbar, and the third be- tween the fourth lumbar and upper part of the sacrum; but of these tliree places, the two lumbar, from the depth of the interver- tebral substance, and the form of their articular sui-faces, possess the greatest share of motion. The part between the eleventh dorsal and second lumbar verte- bra thus appears to be one of the two points at wliich the motion of flexion is cliiefly performed, in addition to being the part at which antero-posterior displacement is, to a certain degree, allowed by the peculiar form of the bones. If we now call to mind that this point is situated at the junction of the almost solid mass of the chest with the more yielding pillar of the lumbar vertebrae, it is not difficult to conceive how this should be the especial part to yield, when violent flexion is involuntarily forced on the spinal column. In violent blows, or falls upon the back, the displace- ment occurs sometimes at the same spot: this must arise from the body being pushed violently backwards or forwards, and the one vertebra ghding from its articulation with the other. So few opportunities have occurred of examining the injured parts in these cases, that they must be arranged according to their mode of occurrence, or the symptoms which they presented. When the displacement has occurred from a violent blow or fall, the nervous symptoms have generally been more severe than when the injury has arisen from a violent flexion of the back. William Baldwin, let. 23, admitted Sept. 7, 1843, under the care of Mr. Stanley, having hurt his back, by a fall of the height of twenty-four feet, in which he was bent up very much, and strained. Some blood was effused on the lumbar part of the spinal column, as well as about the right foot and ankle. No fi’acture of any bone was discovered, neither were there any symptoms of injury to the spinal cord. About one week after admission, when