INJTJUIKS OF THE BONES OF THE EOWEU EXTREJriTY. 51 cases the following plan is useful: place the right hand nith the ends of the fingers on the fibula midway between its two extremi- ties, and press it towards the tibia. Even in the stout fibula of a healthy man the bone will often play between its two extremi- ties luider this pressure. If a general easy movement is found, by passing the left hand up and dovm, to take place all the way between the two attaclnnents of the fibula, fracture is very impro- bable indeed, wliilst occasionally the pain and want of free motion produced by this pressure shew that fractiue has taken place. AVlien the tibia aird fibula are broken near the ankle joint, with- out any bruise or displacement, the detection of crepitus is sometimes very difficult, and can only be ascertained by firmly grasping the ankle with one hand, and the lower tliii’d of the leg with the other, and attempting to move the parts slightly on each other. Unless the greatest caution be obseiwed, fracture in tliis situation may pass unnoticed. Occasionally any displacement is so entirely wanting, that it is necessary to hold the part just above the injury ffi-mly with one hand, and to press the Iomtt part firmly backwai’ds with the thumb and fingers, when the acute pain with a very slight crepitus shew the existence of fracture. When the head of the tibia is broken transversely across, the injury is most easily detected by grasping the patella and upper part of the tibia with one hand, and bending the knee to a slight extent with the other hand placed near the ankle, when the injiuy will be detected by a slight juelding of the part. If the leg were examined in the extended position, tlris injury might pass unnoticed. When the tibia and fibula are both broken about the upper part of the middle third of the leg, the extended position of the limb is the best, and in general allows the limb to lie smoothly without any unnatmul prominence at the seat of injury; if with fracture in this situation the leg be placed in the flexed ])osition on the side, the lower end of the up])er portion is very liable to project against the skin, and produce a luiu]) there, after union has taken ])lace. This projection may, indeed, be generally prevented by an extra straight splint in front of the leg, with a small pad on this ]iart; but even this will not always succeed, and may be followed by idccration of the skin in that sitnation. When the two bones are broken about midway between the knee and