164 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATION 3 IN SURGERY. but the patient was quite calm and comfortable, and shewed no signs of loss of blood. The tumor pressing on the rectum was now gone, the septum had burst, and the finger could be passed through it to a considerable distance without feeling the os uteri. She got quite well, and menstruated in one month dating from her admission into the hospital. The first suggestion arising to the reader will probably be: Here was a plain case of collection of the menses, and it might have been tapped at once, and the bladder relieved. The fact is this; the woman came late in the day; the prominent symptoms were relieved, no danger existed, and the patient remained in the house for the surgical visit next day. The history of cases often comes from the patient little by little, and until the membrane burst, the house-surgeon, which was myself, had no very clear idea what the absolute cause of the retention was. It is perhaps not quite clear how the retention was caused. Could blood accumulate between the membrane and os uteri to such an amount, and press on the surrounding parts with such force, as to close the uretlura, elongate it, and also compress the rectum firmly against the sacrum ? This may have been the case> but the firm tumor of the sacrum, the sudden attack of the retention, the elongation and alteration of direction in the urethra, are quite consonant with the supposition of the blood passing partly into the cavity of the uterus, and this organ becoming retroverted into the hollow of the sacrum, as in the early period of preg- nancy. It is remarkable, how rarely a case of pure hsematuria, that is, one in wliich the only perceptible adment is the existence of blood in the urine, occurs. The existence of a stone, or some affection of the bladder or kidneys, is generally made out, and the mere passage of blood becomes a symptom, instead of the disease. The cii'cumstances of the following case w'ere peculiar and of interest. No renal or other ailment could be clearly made out, although some gi’owth from the bladder was suspected, and the case resolved itself into one of simple hiematuria. No means suc- ceeded in arresting the flow of blood, until a stjqitic was employed, and that gave immediate relief, and in so marked a manner, that its efficacy in this case could pot well be doubted:—