INJURIES OF TUB BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 55 left leg below tlie knee is wasted considerably, and marked with large veins j tlie foot is crooked, the inner side cliiefly toucli- ing tbe ground. The growth is situated in the upper part of the ^ lower tlihd of the leg, on its front and inner sides. The growth is tlu’ee inches and a half in extent from above downwards, and tliree inches from side to side, and projects about one inch and a half above the skin; the skin appearing to be bored tlirough from below by it, as well as to be overhung by it round the edges- The surface of the growth is rough and uneven, of a brown and red eolour, covered with foetid watery secretion, occasionally bleeding and very painful. He is apparently in good, but weak health: a native of Auglesea. Wlien four years old he broke liis leg, in the situation of tliis gi’owth: this fractm’e united, with the separation of a consi- derable portion of bone: the part remained hard, and occasionally painful, till five years and a half since, when he hit his leg on this spot, and first became subject to an open sore: about a year and a half since, the growth now existing first began to sptout out of this sore, and has continued to increase ever since; the pain in it being severe, and the bleeding from it frequent. The hmb was removed. The tibia exhibited an obliteration of its medullary cavity above the growth, wliich arose in connection with the hne of a very oblique old fractm’e; the compact tissue of the bone was also con- siderably increased in quantity round this fractm’e. The growth extended down to, and formed a mass united with, and forming part of the periosteum; this membrane being inseparable from it in the least degree. The surface of the bone below the growth was more vascular than the other part of the external sm’face of the bone; the medulla, a very considerable portion of which existed immediately beneath tlie growth, was red, very free from yellow fat, and near its junction with the compact tissue marked with distinct vessels. In the two following cases, distortions resembling those of club- foot occurred from fractures; one of the inner malleolus, the other of both malleoli. A girl, aged 15, was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, iiilc) St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, lame of one log: the inner malleolus is