ON FRACTURES OF THE RIBS, LOWER JAW, AND PELVIS. 3i rated from the surrounding tissue. A bronchial tube commu- nicated with this dead portion of the lung, as well as with the abscess, from the neighbourhood of which the bleeding had pro- bably occurred. A man with an extensively ruptured Imig and broken ribs may live a short time. A waggon wheel passed over a man^s side; he lived only about one hour and ten minutes, and witliin one hour from the accident was cold and pulseless. Fom’ or five ribs were broken on each side before and beliind, and there was about a pint of blood in the left pleura: the upper lobe of the left lung was also rent. A waggon passed ovSr a maiFs left shoulder; he lived only one hour, but he walked tlu-ee quarters of a mile after the accident. The right side was uninjured. On the left side the lung was rent, six ribs were broken, and there were about six ounces of blood in the pleura. Both men seemed to fad. very much from exhaustion, and not from mere suffocation. The man with the least injury died first, but then he walked tliree quarters of a mde. It was noticed that his heart and pulmonary vessels were empty, and contained no blood, yet oidy six ounces were found in the pleura. In connection ■wdth effusion of blood into the pleura from injury of the chest, the following case is related, on account of its simi- larity in many respects to those just related. Although the real nature of the injury was never a matter of ocular demonstration, for the girl, with all her misfortunes, got quite well, yet its nature appeared to be clear. A girl, thirteen years of age, was admitted June 26,1843, under Mr. Vincent, about 11 p.m., two hours after breaking her left thigh by a fall from a window, in such extreme faintness that her life appeared to be in immediate danger; she was cougliing up a little blood. Some wine was given to revive her, and her thigh was then set. In the evening she was breathing with great diffi- culty, but was relieved by bleeding to four ounces. On the 27th the child was quite pale, restless, but drowsy at times, rolling about in bed, and very faint. A few leeches were