60 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUllGEllY, broken of^ and still remained loose^ being nourished through its adhesions to the capsule^ and a new articulating surface had been formed on the inner side of the neck of the scapula.” A stout man dislocated his left humerus, and had it reduced, but with considerable force. In a few months he api^lied, not being able to elevate his arm. The deltoid acted weU 5 the biceps was flabby, and the two spinati muscles were thin and wasted. Looking to the good con- dition of the deltoid, the circumflex nerve was here probably sound, and the injury muscular. In the following dissection the spinati and biceps muscles were chiefly injured: — An old woman was brought for dissection, with old unreduced dislocations of the right shoulder and left patella. Casts were made, and the parts preserved in the Museum of St. Bartholomewks Hospital. The right shoulder was flattened; the hollow below the acro- mion, and the lump below the clavicle, were very marked. The arm was shortened one inch. The deltoid, pectoralis major and minor, were not much wasted, nor very thin. The head of the bone lay under the clavicle, on the inner side of the coracoid process on the subscapular muscle, a very little part of it lying on the rib. The outer and the back portions of the capsule were entire, and extended tightly to the neck of the bone; the head of the bone was chiefly covered by firm thickened tissue. The capsules, old and new, thus formed, were lined by a synovial membrane. On examining the muscles, the tendons of the supra and infra spinatus, and teres minor, -were found torn off the bone, but fixed to the capsule. The tendon of the teres major was entire, and had its natm’al relations. The long head of the biceps had no relation to the glenoid cavif y, but ceased to be visible at the upjier part of the groove, in the new adherent tissue. The subscapularis was attached to the lesser tuberosity, as well as to the edge of the glenoid cavity, being flattened out beneath the head of the humerus. The plexus of nerves, axillary artery and vein, lay over and in front of the head of the bone. The glenoid cavity was enfire; the glenoid ligament and cartilage wei'c perfect; the joint was, however, covered with firm cellulai- tissue united to the cartilage and capsule.