MEECURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 251 with occasional attacks of dyspnoea of such severity as to tlireateu suffocation. The eruption accompanying this^ ulcer is commonly of the pustular or tubercular form, with nodes and pains in the Limbs of long standing. The severe cases of sloughy ulceration of the pharynX’ are accompanied by these symptoms in varying degrees, the severity of the disease being sometimes greater, but generally less, than that Just described. Tlie ulcerative disease of the pharynx is characterized by a simple but deep sore, presenting a raw surface and sharp angular edges, not covered by any quantity of secretion, nor* surrounded by any great redness of the mucous membrane. This form of ulceration often lasts for a very long period, and is accompanied •with great pain and some alteration in the voice, on account of its proximity to the larynx. The syphilitic affections of the throat are generally very amenable to treatment, and affected in their different forms by mercury and iodine in a decided manner. Wlien the disease does not pass into ulceration, but remains simply irritable and inflamed, the employment of common means is in general sufflcient, and it is chiefly when ulceration occurs that specific means are required. Ulceration, however, occurs in most cases; and although common means are often sufficient to bring about a cure, yet such a cure may not only be hastened, but also rendered more complete, by the employment of the two remedies now under consideration. AYhen the inflammation of the mucous membrane of the fauces is followed by the eruption of a number of vesicles, or by the for- mation of elevated patches of ulcerated mucous membrane re- sembling condylomata on the surface of the palate, the effects of mercury are not very well marked; the disease, in fact, seems to run its course \vithout being much acted upon by it. The rai’e occurrence of the vesicular eruption prevents any very decided opinion being given against the use of any particular means; but, so far as it has been observed, the disease has seemed to decline of itself in about a fortnight after admission, under a simple plan of general treatment, without any particular reference to the affection of the mucous membrane of the mouth. It would be a great gain if any plan of treatment could be found to act rapidly on the condylomatous thickening and idcera-