71 INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. well, and, ou November 3d, the wound of the left side had healed, wliilst large sloughs had come away on the right side. Nov. 12th.—On the 10 th she experienced two or three distinct sliivering fits, mth pain in the head and fever. The wonnd is granulating healtliily, but exhibits a portion of dead white bone. The pain in the head is reheved mnch, and the fever removed by the application of a few leeches to the scalp, as well as by the employment of antimony. 25th.—The shivering fits have not distinctly recurred since the 12th; she has not, however, been so well since; slight pain in the head, increased at intervals, occurs occasionally with some general fever. Tliis has been partially relieved by the occasional apphcation of leeches, and small doses of effervescing medicine, Avith antimonial wne. Hydr. c. Greta has been also given, but has been omitted dming the last one or two days, as her mouth was slightly sore, and she complained of extreme feebleness. The scalp is partially united on the right side, but puffy from a small quantity of watery pus coUectiug daily, whilst a considerable portion of dead bone may be felt with the probe under the partially adherent scalp. Tills afternoon, whilst walking to the closet, she seemed to fail on one side for the first time, and the left arm and leg were found to be partially useless; her mouth also appeared partially drawn to the right side. No loss of sensation is described, but as her mind does not appear so active as usual, her statement is not absolutely to be trusted. Blister; 8 Leeches to the temples. To take Hyd. c. Greta, gr. ijss. every foiu’ hours. 26th.—Pain somewhat relieved by the leeches. Paralysis of left arm and leg complete, as well as of the left side of the face. The only marked change is, that she appears to be less rational and more dull. To be cupped to eight ounces behind the ears. To omit the Ilydr. c. Greta, and to take Galomel, two grains every four hours. Tlic cupping produced no marked change, except extreme feebleness of pulse and considerable vomiting. Half past 10 p.M.—She has become suddenly quite, insensible,