123 Al''l‘’JiCTIONS OF JOINTS. substance the two flexor tendons, wliicli were thin, and had lost their sliining appearance. On division of the baud thus formed, near the lower part of the first phalanx, the finger readily assumed the straight position. Division in the same place during life would have enabled the finger to become quite straight; this division must, however, have included the whole part between the skin and bone. As the ten- dons were adherent to the inside of the sheath, over the first and second phalanx, the power of flexion would probably never have been gained, and thus the man would only have gained a stifl‘ straight, instead of a stiff bent finger. The following are dissections of a case of varus in the right leg of an adult, and of two cases of contracted toes in old persons :— 1. The posterior tibial artery ran do\m the hmb, lying about a quarter to half an inch from the inner edge of the tibia, from a point six inches above the malleolus down to it. The sheath of the tibialis posticus extended about two inches above the malleolus, up the back of the tibia; the muscular fibres ran down to an inch and .a half above the malleolus. The sheaths of the flexor digitorum and tibialis posticus were quite separate. The sheath of the flexor digitorum communis extended about an inch and tliree-quarters above the malleolus, wliilst the mus- cular fibres ran down to an inch and a quarter above the same point. The peroneo-cutaneous nerve was large, and swelled for some distance on the outer side of the foot. The vein on the tibial side of the artery was large and fidl, so as to be much more plain than the vein on the fibular side. The muscles on the front and back of the leg were somewhat pale, but not greasy in any way. The heel was elevated, the foot somewhat inverted, and the arch of the foot ihuch shortened from before backwards. Division of the tendo Achilhs brought down the heel considera- bly. The tendon of the jfiantaris was more separate than usual, and the cellular structure under the tendon was considerably thickened} division of this structure made very httle did'erencc. Division of the tibialis posticus made very little difierence.