INJURIES OE THE BONES OE THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 43 they are unable afterwards to stand, or to move their legs well for some time, but gradually get well, frequently without treatment, and resiune their occupation. In the ninter of 1840-41, several persons in this condition were admitted neaily together, as well as others in whom pain in the back was the cliief complaint. In some of these cases local abstraction of blood was employed, and apparently with most benefit, when the injury cliiefiy consisted in tliis slight degree of paralysis. When the blow is on the back, the motion of all the parts below is generally equally affected, but in one case the chief affection consisted in a weakened condition of the arms, from a blow on the back, the legs not presenting weakness in the same degree. Trom a violent blow on the liip joint and loins the patient is sometimes pairtially paralysed in only one lower limb; tliis may aiise from the blow on the muscles and joint, but in others the feebleness resulting fi’om the injuiy seems to be caused by the blow, either on part of the cord supplying that part, or by injury to the iscliiatic nerve, wliich is not unfrequently exactly in the situation of the blow. Tliere are two fractures constantly occurring, wliich, after the most careful examination, are sometimes doubtful, winch with all care are most serious injuries, and which, if neglected, are almost certain to end in a permanent injury to the limb; these two injm-ies are fracture of the lower thii-d of the radius, and fracture of the neck of the tlngh bone. It is perhaps more common to meet vuth a fractured neck of the thigh bone wanting in some signs of fracture, than possessing all, yet there is almost always some sign or other. Any one sign may be utterly wanting, but all are hardly ever absent; the sign ])resent may be at best doubtful, and often is so, but a doubtful sign in reasoning is often a very certain one in practice. There can be no doubt that every injury to the hip, especially in old people, be the signs ever so doubtful or slight, so as they do exist, recjuires to bo watched most anxiously, and cannot be pronounced at once, and sometimes even for many days, not to bo accompanied with fracture. The result alone can test the point, and nearly always the result is, that the bone is broken.