Al'FECTIONS OF THE URINAllY AND GENITAL ORGANS. 169 fluid, and about 5ij. of blood, in a stream, which soon stopped. This blood coagulated, leaving a reddish fluid, which presented nothing peculiai' to the eye. The swelling thus was hardly altered in size. On the following day the testicle was removed. The tunica vaginahs contained a little bloody fluid, and some coagula. The swelling was one firm mass, occupying the whole ca\dty of the tunica vaginahs, and tliis, after the removal of the fiuid on the 1st, formed the entire tumor, passing close up to the ring. Tlie swelhng was found to consist of a pink, very vasculai- mass, marked in one or two places with bits of yellow matter. These substances were elastic, not breaking down, or allowing any soft substance to separate, when scraped, but nearly as fii-m as a healthy testicle. On the hack of the swelhng a part of the tubular substance of the testicle was visible, covered with the tunica albuginea, and forming a part of the swelhng from which the other bulged. Aug. 12.—The boy is pale and sallow and still hable to odd feehngs in his legs. The wound is not yet healed ui its whole extent. He complains of pain in the left hip; the w^ound is healing favom-ably, the lower part completely cicatrized. In a few days he complained of pain in the liip and chest, which continued more or less tiU death. He died September 5th, having been dehrious for a few^ days, passing blood in liis motions; the skin also having given way over the sacrum. On examination, the following appearances were found:— Second rib, right side, broken close to the cartilage; w'alls thin, its interior filled for about haK an inch with substance resembling jelly, of a brownish-red colom-, without traces of cancelh. Some other ribs on the right side, and all on the left near the cartilages, were easily cut through, and bent without breaking, the gelatinous matter in them being here and there tinged with blood. The lumbar vertebrae were soft, with gelatinous deposits of the size of a pea here and there through the cancelli. The body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, with the exception of two thin plates of bone cor- responding to its articulating surfaces, was completely destroyed, some soft jelly occupying its place. The sacrum, and upper part of the interior of both ossa innominata, were extensively softened ;