CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. separate it from this affection, that it might perhaps be consi- dered as varicella, occurring in a patient labouring under the venereal disease. Under the employment of common means this case did well, neither iodine nor mercury being required for its rehef. Although in the great majority of cases these eruptions are decided and well marked, yet at certain periods, and even from the first in some instances, they present a mixed character. Thus the simple mottling of the skin in its late stage approaches very closely to the mild cases of scaly eruption, whilst some of the cases of scaly eruption present such an elevation of the skin as to border very closely on the tubercular disease. Again, the conical crusts of rupia, though well marked in many cases, sometimes border very closely on the pustular eruption, to which they seem still more closely allied by their early pustular character, and the almost constant absence of any vesicular appearance in the early stage. The papular eruption differs much in the degree of accompanying con- stitutional disturbance, being, in some cases, during its early stage, accompanied with a very considerable degree of inflammatory fever, whilst at other times the whole progress of the affection is not attended with any considerable disturbance of the patient^s health. The gi’eater number of cases present themselves for treat- ment after the early stage of the eruption has gone by, and when some of the papules are beginning to desquamate; the eruption having, however, in many lasted for several months, and having been treated by a variety of means. Under the employment of proper means the cases of papular eruption generally do very well, even though they may be of considerable standing; the obstacles to the complete cure being its complication with inflammation of the external tunics of the eye, the successive eruption of fresh crops of papules, and the forma- tion of deep copper-coloured or dark pm-ple stains after the removal of the papules. Whilst this affection is coming on, in proportion as it is accom- panied with fever, the more prominent the papules are, and the smaller the a])pearance of any desquamation of the cuticle, so much tlie more beneficial is a general antiphlogistic treatment, and so much less tlie chance of any advantage from mercury or iodine.