MERCUllY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASE. 277 irritable ulcers about the side of the nail, wliicli occur from common accidents and injuries. This affection commences by pain and swelling of the smooth skin at the side of the nail, this being followed shortly by the formation of a small quantity of matter. This secretion of matter is soon succeeded by ulceration of the skin adjacent to it, im- plicating the end of the finger, and that portion of the cutis which is connected with the formation and groMdh of the nail. The part fii'st affected gradually heals, whilst the disease extends in a ring of superficial ulceration over the fii’st and second phalanges, at which part it not unfrequently stops under proper treatment. The skin remains red, and presents a tense shining appearance, whilst the finger-joint over which the disease has passed is more or less fixed by the tension of the superficial parts, the junction of the sound and diseased parts being marked at the same time by an accmate line of demarcation. The nail itself is generally more or less affected; in some cases it separates, leaving a foul irritable ulcer; at other times the nail is simply distorted, becoming more flat on its surface, and having its edges turned up. Occasionally the ulceration extends, healing up in the part fii-st affected, wlulst at other times it spreads less in extent, but passing more deeply forms an ulcer in the part first affected, and in those immediately adjacent to it. Tliis affection of the nail is separate and distinct in its progress from the primary ulcers which occur from chrect contagion; it may be accompanied by pustular erup- tion, simple inflammation of the fauces, or foul ulceration of the throat. Two cases of this affection occurred about the same time in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. In one mercury was employed, and the case did well, wliilst the other, in which the hquor potasses arseiiitis was used, healed partially, and then again relapsed. There are tlu’ee well-marked cases of this disease described by Itoyer-CoUard*, and Lelutt, with other secondary disease, as oc- * Repertoire Geiierale d’Anatomie, par Dr. Dresehul, tome ii. pm'tio i. p. 131; and tome iv. partie i. p. 136-137. t Ibid.