264 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. other means, successively fail in affording any decided relief to this affection, and the patient suffers severely until iodine is em- ployed. The hydriodate of potash, in doses of from five to eight grains administered three times in the day, acts often like a charm, and gives a greater degree of relief than any other means. This relief generally continues until the pains are more or less completely removed, and an increase of the dose beyond twelve or fifteen grains of the hydriodate of potash in the twenty-four hours is rarely required. When iodine fails to afford some earnest of future benefit soon after the commencement of its employment, it is not commonly found that any very great benefit follows its ex- hibition, either in large doses, or after a long continuance of its use. Since hydriodate of potash has come into general use, venereal affections of the bones and periosteum have been more certainly as well as more rapidly cured, and cases in wliich the periosteum requires division are now comparatively rare. Yet painful affec- tions of these parts will not always yield to iodine, and there are still a few cases where incisions are necessary, a few more where mercury is beneficial; and every now and then a case occurs in which there are no indications for the employment of incisions, and where neither mercury nor iodine do any good. This last class of cases are very obstinate, and deserve especial notice. There do not seem to be any very marked indications by which a case of severe pains in the limbs, curable by mercury better than by any other means, can be known, and these cases generally come to be treated by mercury because they have not yielded in any way to the employment of iodine. There are, however, a certain num- ber of cases, and these occurring chiefly in persons of moderately robust health, where all means fail in affording decided relief, until mercury is employed so as to affect the mouth, when the pains rapidly diminish in severity. The best case for the employment of hydriodate of potash, and that in wliich its benefits are most marked, is that of a haggard, worn-out, wretched looking man, who has suffered for weeks from dull aching pains in all the long bones of his body, but cannot pick out any one bone as being worse than another. The cases, where iodine is attended with least benefit ai’c often just the coji-