AFFECTIONS AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 147 fluid, and to slough, more especially in the skin. During the fortnight succeeding the operation this slougliing extended gradually, so as to expose about half an ineh of bone, as also a considerable portion of the muscles; after tliis the parts gradually separated, and a healthy granulating surface was exposed. The patient^s condition during this period was so low, that his life was quite despaired of. By about the 10 th of August the wound might be said to pre- sent a healthy appearance, and the patient was improving con- siderably. The ligature of the operation on the artery remained fixed, and the swelling still presented the same pulsation and tliriU, vdth a bruit as before the operation, only in a considerably less degree. During the whole of this illness no symptoms of any affection of the veins existed;. the fever chd not appear to be accompanied by any severe rigors, but was characterised more by extreme irri- tability and weakness than any thing else. At one time he was so low and desponding, that he attempted to commit suicide by hanging liimself. The ligature did not separate for at least six weeks after the operation; tliis appeared to depend on the small- ness of the aperture in the skin, which healed over the artery, not allowing the ligature to pass out, although it was separated from the artery. He remained in the hospital till December 7th. Dur- ing tliis period he completely recovered his health and strength. The protrading portion of bone was removed on the 30th of Octo- ber, after which the stump healed well. The sweUing in the aneu- rism still remained to a slight degree, being perceptible by slight fulness in that part, with the same peculiar tlndl. July 19, 1842, (one year after the operation): the man came to the hospital this day in good health. The stump is in good con- dition, quite healed, and useful. The aneurism is now completely removed, but the thrill, on applying the finger, is still very consi- derable, extending from one inch above Poupart’s ligament to about two inches and a half below, being perceptible over the vein, artery, and all tlie solid parts immediately around. This thrill exactly resembles in cliaractev that produced lu dilated veins, but is much more intense.