50 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. depressed^ tlic ankle joint fixed and only very sliglitly moveable. The heel is elevated^ and the tendo-achillis tense. There is a cicatrix over the tendons just above and beliind the inner malleolus; the foot is somewhat inverted^ the inner edge being slightly ele- vated. During the last six months the lameness has been increasing. Two years since she appears to have fractured the inner malleo- lus : this was followed by lameness^ and tlie formation of an abscess nine months since behind the tibia: this abscess is now healed^ leaving a cicatrix, by means of wliich the tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus poUicis are probably adherent to the bone. Eichard West, set. 60, was admitted Feb. 22, 1843, under Mr. Vincent, labouring under a distortion of the foot, wliicli, from the accompanying pain and lameness, affects his health, and pre- vents him so completely from following his trade tliat he wishes the limb to be removed. At twelve years of age (forty-eight years since) he twisted liis foot and ankle in a fall from a tree, and hurt his foot a week or two afterwards, so that he was obliged to wear a boot to keep the parts straight. At fourteen years and a half of age he left off the boot, and has since allowed the foot to assume the present unna- tural position. Dissection of the foot.—The foot is placed at an obtuse angle to the leg, the heel being elevated, with depression of the metatarsus and toes : the foot is also arched, with shortening of the distance between the toes and heel, whilst the upper surface looks upwards and outwards, and the under consequently partially inwards. The skin of the foot is generally thin, and is sepai-ated from the subja- cent parts in front of the ankle by two bm-ste, one being of con- siderable size. The gastrocnemii, tibialcs posticus and anticus, flexors and extensors of toes and great toe, as well as the three peromei, arc all wasted and fatty, which comhtion is tdso slightly presented by the extensor brevis digitorum, as well as by the flexor accessorius and interossci of the foot. The abductorcs polli- cis and minimi digiti, as well as the flexor brevis digitoriun, arc small, but red and healthy; the change thus implicating the flexors and extensors of the ankle, and the muscles of the foot especially connected with them. The cartilage ol the astragiilus