ON FKACTUUES OF THE RIBS^ LOTVER JAW, AND PELVIS. 35 the quantity of expectoration, of which slie wished to convey an idea to us by pointing to a pint-mug on the table. Wlien the lower jaw has been broken, and the patient is unable to move his tongue, or the soft parts of the mouth, in the natmal free manner, the saliva collects in the hollow parts round the gums and the fractured part. Under these circumstances the mucous membrane round the necks of the teeth is liable to inflame and ulcerate as in salivation, wliilst the saliva becomes foetid; thus adding to the inconvenience of the fracture some of the discomfort of salivation. This affection of the gums, though very irksome, does not appear in general to retard the cure. The fracture of the lower jaw, when occm'riug near the cliin, is not unfrequently accompanied with a wound of the skin and sub- jacent parts, extending down to the fractured part. Yery fre- quently, indeed, the gum is torn over the fracture. In both these eases the fracture is compound, and exposed also to the acrid secretion of the mouth. Although the union takes place more slowly under these circumstances than when there is less injury, yet no material delay occurs, not even if the inflammation is fol- lowed by suppuration to a small extent, which in general finds a ready outlet. Even if a portion of the bone be exposed both to the air and sahva, it does not invariably separate, but still retains its connection with the surrounding parts. Fracture of the lower jaw rarely occurs in the mesial line, but stiU it does happen occasionally. A man was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, with fracture of the lower jaw, at the symphysis, between the two central incisor teeth, from direct violence (blow v'ith the fist), occurring one week previously. No displacement had oc- curred. Tlic jaw was placed in a pasteboard splint, and united well. Fracture of the lower jaw may occur in the mesial line, unat- tended by any laceration of the gum, or any displacement. A fracture so occurring, without any signs, may be very easily passed over unnoticed. A man applied one morning at the hospital, for a wound on ibe chin, which had happened from falling down in a fit. Tlieivound was deep, and just in a point likely to break the jaw: no fracture was, however, found by the house-surgeon, and tlic man was