Al'TECTIONS OF JOINTS. ni SO severe as to confine him to bed for tliree weeks. The lame- ness Avas considerable just previous to the appearance of the ab- scesses on the upper part of the thighs. June 18th.—The right abscess was opened, and one hundred and ninety fluid ounces of healthy pus evacuated. The man felt reheved by the puncture. June 30th.—The man^s health remains mialtered; the opening closed by the fii’st intention; no fever has ensued. The tumor is again filhng. Tliis man went out, the wound discharging a little, and the left side unaltered; he could walk well, and was relieved. The following case presented itself as one of disease of the spine. It is, however, questionable whether it may not be more properly considered as one of hijury to the vertebrae, followed by disease, or as one of fractui’e occurring in a diseased part. The dependence of the paralysis on pressure, the sudden access of the symptoms, and the want of any reflex power, all favour the opi- nion of its accidental origin; yet one vertebra was wanting, and the soft union resembled the product of disease : — Stephen Staines, aet. 17, admitted April 22d, 1842, under the care of Mr. Stanley, a feeble, wretched boy, with pallid skin and lips, labouring under profuse night sweats. There is an angular curvature about the upper dorsal vertebrae, to a considerable de- gi-ee, complete loss of motion and sensation in the lower limbs, inability to empty the bladder and to retain the faeces. The lower hmbs are generally bent, not at all hable to spasms, and quite destitute of any reflex motion when the skin is pinched. The upper limbs are quite natural. The cmwature was first perceived two years since, and had been attended with no marked symptoms, except some pain round the loins, tiU two months before admis- sion, Avhen he lost the power of motion, sensation, the capability of emptying the bladder and retaining the faeces,—till in tivo days, without evident cause. It was also reported indirectly, that two years before admission he loll out of a cart, and subsequently was so weak as to fall down frequently when he was walking. This boy gradually died, having become more and more weak, and sloughs having formed on the back and legs. Iluring the last few days of his life he