46 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. terized by complete lameness, and a bent condition of the knee, with a falbng of the knee and leg backwards, so as to resemble to a certain degi’ee dislocation of the knee backwards; from which it is, however, readily distinguished by the crepitus, the facility of reduction, and occasionally also by the increased breadth of the knee from tlie separation of the condyles, to a certain degree, from each other. Dislocation of the patella is occasionally complicated with fracture of the lower tliird of the femur. In the summer of 1843, a man, about 60 years old, was admitted into St. Bartholomew\s Hospital, under Mr. Lawrence, laboining under a dislocation of the patella ontwards, which was easily reduced. The leg and thigh, however, formed an obtuse angle with each other, the point of intersection being just above tlie patella, at wliich part obscure crepitus could be felt; the patella, even when reduced, ai)pearing to be somewhat sunk between the condyles. The man recovered, but with an impaired condition of the hinb. In children, the lower portion of the femm-, constituting the epiphysis, is occasionally separated by the knee being twisted in a wheel, between beams, or by the cluld being accidentally suspended by one knee; This injury requires very close attention, from the injury to the soft parts which such violence necessarily causes, from its connection with the knee joint, as well as from the dis- tortion wliich may occur. The epiphysis, after tliis injury, is very liable to pass forwards and rest on the lower part of the shaft of the femur, wliich latter passes backwards into the popliteal space. Wliere union takes place, and the displacement is not very great, the impediment to motion is not considerable, motion being sometimes perfect even when the shortenuig is to the extent of one inch—a circumstance depending on the motions of the patella not being interfered with by the projecting portion of bone, as where the upper projects in front of the lower portion. The lower portion in this fracture may be carried either behind or before the upper portion, whilst occasionally at the same time a piece of bone is split off, and stuck so firmly into the neighboming muscles, as to be quite immoveable. This accident is generally accompanied with a very oblique frac- ture, on which account the limb is very likely to be shortened more