220 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEIIVATTONS IN SUUGEllY. solution of the foul white surface, and tlie gradual conversion of the part into a healthy ulcer. The improvement of this form of phagedsenic ulceration under the influence of mercury, in some of the cases under the care of Mr. Lawrence, has been as-marked and decided as the improvement in acute s}^)hilitic iritis under a similar employment of mercury; whilst under the employment of other means the sore had presented an extremely unfavourable appearance. In the acute stage of this affection, whilst the ulcer is gradually 5[)reading and destroying the parts, this plan of treatment has appeared to succeed better than any other; and the success of it in this form of disease has also been very frequently put to the test. When, however, the sore is reduced to a simple granulating sui'face, the continued employment of this active treatment is not necessai-y, the sore in general healing up under the mild employ- ment of mercury. When the mercmial influence is produced, from some peculiarity of the patient, very rapidly, the influence of mercury is beneficial, but does not appear to be attended vith that full benefit which accompanies its more gradual action. Although in the great majority of cases the employment of this plan is at- tended with such great success, yet cases occur from time to time in wliich, after the disease has yielded at first and got partially well, the subsequent progress becomes slow, or even ceases. The condition of the patients in whom this occurs is generally bad and unhealthy. Now although the disease in the worst cases may sometimes not advance, yet it does not recede so far as to assume the serious appearance which it presented when it first derived the advantage from the employment of mercury. In those cases where the disease subsequently becomes stationary, more benefit is derived from the hydriodate of potash, with sarsaparilla, and a nutri- tious diet, after the patient has been removed altogetlier from the mercurial atmosphere, and under the employment of these means the ulcers gradually heal up and cicatrize. Under tliis plan of treatment this form of ulceration has appeared to heal sooner than any other. In some cases other plans have been tried before admission without success, whilst the disease has gone on from bad to worse. Tlirs, much time has been i^pent in useless attempts to arrest the disca.se, which has