EMPLOYMENT OF MERCURY IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 269 junction of the cutaneous and mucous membranes^ an ulcer forms, not unfrequently arising from one of these pustules. This by its enlargement forms a considerable sore, ivith a foul unhealthy surface, situated sometimes on a hardened base, surrounded by irregular sharp edges, and occasionally accompanied with consider- able oedema : the ulcer may be single, of a large size, and with a foul surface, or, instead of a single large sore, two or three similar ulcers may exist along the edge of the lid. The employment of hydiiodate of potash is beneficial in these cases, and these ulcers heal under its employment; yet the ulti- mate healing is not very complete, nor is the influence of hydrio- date of potash sufficiently great to prevent the occurrence of fresh ulcers whilst the oiiginal sores are healing. The employment of mercury appears to exert more influence on this form of disease than that of any other medicine; and under its use, so as to produce soreness of the mouth, the ulcer assumes a healthy appear- ance, and heals completely, no renewed ulceration taking place either in the parts themselves or in those adjacent to them. In ulcers of considerable size cicatrization is sometimes complete at the end of a month, leaving a much smaller cicatrix, and less de- struction of parts, than might at first have been anticipated. The following case illustrates so well the benefit of both reme- dies, but the more certain advantage arising from the employment of mercury, that it is inserted here:— A man, 24 years of age, was admitted under the care of Mr. Lawrence, on December 17 th, 1840, labouring under ulcerations of the tarsal edges of the right upper and left lower lids, of small size, of a yellow colour, and accompanied with considerable sur- rounding redness. There was a circular ulcer on one arm, and the face was marked with pustular eruption. The fauces, velum, and pharynx, were ulcerated: there was also a slight ulcer of the scalp. The man took the Pil. Saponis c. Opio, to wliich was added on the 7th day Potass. lodidi, gr. vj. in Sarzse Decoct. Co. tliree times in the day. Jan. 26th.—He has continued the same plan of treatment up to the present time, and is now leaving the hospital. His ap- pearance is better, and he has much improved in health. The