216 CLINICAL OOLLKCTIONS AND OB.SLRVATfONS IN SURGERY. existence. If one set of patients liad to be named, in whom a more complete course of secondary symptoms had occurred than any other, those in wliom indurations have been left unattended to, after cicatrization of the primary sore, might M^ell be pointed out. I^or the relief of those cases no means can be compared with mercury, and mercury employed internally and locally acts in the most beneficial manner. Under its use the recent indurations are often completely absorbed, and a healthy cicatrix established. The long period that these ulcerations sometimes last, as well as the frequency with which secondary symptoms occur after the ulceration has long remained healed, suggest the propriety of examining whether the quantity of mercury should not be in- creased in proportion to the age of the disease. If such is the case it is an unfortunate circumstance, as the patient, by the long period and quairtity of disease, and sometimes by the treat- ment also, is reduced to a condition in which large quantities of mercury are far from advisable. However, neither the length of the disease nor its extent are any indications for the em- ployment of large quantities of mercury, but they in general indicate the necessity of great attention to the general health whilst mercury is being employed. If proper precautions be taken, the effect produced by moderate quantities of mercury, provided an effect is really produced, is as beneficial as if large quantities had been used. In cases of old standing, where the primary and secondary symptoms exist together, where the disease is of long standing, and the patient’s health bad, the great point appears to be, to employ mercury mildly for a considerable time, and to avoid any rapid and sudden use of it. Some of the best marked cases of the benefit of mercury which I have seen, have been cases of syphilitic disease, under the care of Mr. Lawence, in wUich the most marked changes have been produced by the employmejit of small quantities of Hydrargyrum cum Greta, con- tinued for a long period. The convenience of blue })ill is one of its great recommenda- tions, and is in many cases the reason for its use being preferred to frictions. The employment of the corrosive sublimate is chiefly confined to secondary affections; the same may also be said of Plummer’s pill.