270 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY, these cases the meatus becomes hot and painful^ the external ear also participating in the redness in a less degree, and having a puffy cedematous appearance. The inflammation of the meatus is gradually succeeded by a copious pmiform discharge from its lining, wliich presents an excoriated appearance. This affection occurs in both sexes, and more especially in connexion with the scaly eruption. In Mr. Welbank^s case this affection occurred in a jierson who had contracted a sore which healed under the use of blue-stone, but left some induration. In about four weeks he had severe nocturnal pains, soon followed by slight sore throat and inflammation of the ear. This latter symptom was succeeded by discharge from the meatus of a reddish sordes, and deafness. This affection was cured by the use of mercury. The plan of treatment adopted in these cases has consisted in the frecpient injection of warm water into the meatus to remove the discharge, whilst mild mercurial treatment has been adopted. Under this plan tliis affection has gradually subsided along with the other symptoms, and tlie sense of hearing has gradually re- turned, It does not appear that iodine has been tried in this affection. Tliis affection is entirely distinct from any severe ulcerative disease which may affect the internal parts of the ear, and wliich has been described by some writers. Benjamin Bell* alludes to such cases, as well as Itard,t and Mr. Hunter^sJ remarks appear to relate to the same point. This severe affection is stated as occurring in connexion with syphilitic disease, but from the extreme rarity of any such disease it is very doubtful whether these cases do not rather belong to the more common affection of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, occurring especially in strumous persons. There is an ulcerative affection of the parts round the nail and ends of the fingers, which occurs occasionally in connexion vdth secondary symptoms, and which is quite distinct from those * Treatise on Gonorrhcca Virulent a. t Traite des Maladies de I’Oreille et dc I’Audition, par J. M. G. Itard. 1821, t. i. p. 283. t Hunter’s Works, by Palmer, vol. ii. p. 420.