61> CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEHVATIONS IN SURGEKY. terSj likely to gain a more useful and extended degree of motion subsequently. Simple dislocation of tlie tliumb arises in general from a fall, or some considerable force applied to the extremity of the thiunb : perhaps one of the most common causes may be a fall, in wliich the end of the thumb is the part which first touches the ground, and which consequently receives the cliief part of the weight of the body. As the force is so great, a severe degree of injury might justly be expected; and experience shews no very great difference between the frequency of compound and simple disloca- tions of the thumb. In dislocation of the thumb, the distal phalanx is generally dis- located behind the proximal, and the injury is situated much more frequently between the middle and extreme, than between the carpal and middle phalanges. The distal extremity of the middle phalanx forms a round swelling on the palmar surface of the thumb, whilst the ungual phalanx is retracted considerably on the dorsal surface of the middle phalanx, and is rarely parallel to it, but in- clined to it at a very obtuse angle. The reduction of a dislocated thumb may be effected, in general, by applying a clove-hitch knot to the dislocated distal bone, and extending the part by it, whilst an assistant, by grasping the arm. at the wrist, exerts firm counter-extension. After extension has been made thus for a considerable period, the part generally on a sudden assumes its natural position. This plan, however, has been known to fail in the most experienced hands, and at other times to succeed oiily after great and long extension. Some years since, Mr. Wormald suggested the propriety of at- tempting the reduction of this dislocation by bending the elbow and wrist, as well as the metacarpus and joints of the thumb, to a considerable degi-ee, instead of applying the force whilst the parts were extended. This plan has now been tried for some years at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, with the result that the reduction is thus made much more easily than in the extended positionthat cases irreducible in the extended position are sometimes thus reduced;—and tliat, in the very few cases which are irreducible on this plan, some distinct cause may be found to account for the dilficulty. The most convenient plan for applying