22 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. adherent to the peritoneum, in the neighbourhood of the ring, by old firm adhesions, so that the great omentum extended from the great arch of the stomach to the ring, adherent at both points, but allowing the vessels to pass readily under it without any constric- tion. The treatment of the omentum has consisted in leaving it in the sac, in returning it into the abdomen, and in cutting it olf. The omentum is rarely left in the sac, and apparently with justice, as there are generally reasons for cutting it off, or for re- turning it into the abdomen. The benefit of leaving it in the sac is none, for it seems to have no tendency in general to close the sac, and the evils resulting from it remaining there are great. It may inflame and suppm'ate, and retard the cure after the operation, or it may prevent a truss being apphed, and it may in itself be the cause of strangulation of the bowel. Many cases do well when it is left, but the simple fact of a mass of omentum being in the sac does no good, and may destroy life. In refe- rence to returning the omentum there are often great objections, sometimes great risk, and generally little benefit. The omentum, in a doubtful condition, is never fit to be placed in the abdomen; and the question is, how far omentum, unin- flamed, is fit to be returned. To ascertain the condition of the omentum it has to be handled and exposed pretty freely; in returning it each part comes in con- tact with the finger, and when returned it does not immediately spread out, but lies together not far from the ring. These are not perhaps very serious matters individually, but they all tliree are conjoined in each case, and they are objections when the returned omentum, though healthy, is very large in extent. The omentum, however, is often much changed. Instead of being a delicate net-work of tissue filled with fat, and so soft that it almost takes a cast of the siu’faces of the \dscera and of the smooth peritoneal lining of the abdomen, it is often as hard as a pancreas, or twisted like a bell rope, or adherent in close and in- tricate folds. It is then, in fact, no membrane, but a tough hard solid mass; and if returned must take np room. It is hard to attribute bad consequences at once to the return of the omentum, but its return has never done any additional good, iuid ihe treat-