80 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. leeches and blisters to the neck were applied. About the 25 th he became subject to general fever, restlessness, and general convul- sions, accompanied with crying and calling out at night; for this he was treated by leeches to the head, blisters to the neck, and calomel in small doses to salivation. Under this treatment the fever abated; he, however, became affected with strabismus, more or less insensibility, and complete inability to move freely in bed, the motions of his body and limbs being slow and few. This was his condition on the 26th March, when he was ordered nom-isliing diet; a seton was also placed in the neck, and small doses of mercury were employed, the evacuations being clay- coloured. Tliis treatment,’ however, prodneed no change; the skin on the extremities and joints sloughed, he became more feeble, and died quietly. May 11 (86th day). The external surface of the skull presented nothing unusual: the skull in the right temjioral fossa, from the sc|namo-parietal sutm'e to the petrous portion, through the middle fossa of the skull, was broken, and quite separated, presenting not the least traces of union: the edges of the bone were bloody, and not romided off in the least. In the right middle fossa of the skull, a small quantity of yellowish soft substance was observable Ipng between the bone and dura mater. The upper surface of the brain was somewhat flattened and compressed; the anterior part of tlie right lobe, and whole lower part of the right middle lobe, were wliite, free from vessels, and of an unusually soft consistence, breaking dorni and almost ''flowingunder the finger. The ventricles eontained about six ounces of a clear fluid; the arachnoid membrane at the base of the brain, more especially along the median line, was quite opaque, and very much thickened, more especially about the optic and third nerves. The clavicle was firmly united by callus, surrounding the broken extremities of the bones, and completely fixing them. The following case is related on account of the existence of a recent ajioplectic effusion in combination with a fracture of the bone. It was not clear how far the second effusion was dependent on the injury or not. A man, about forty, liad hemiplegia of the right side, and getting partially well, went home, April 7. On the follownng 7th of June he was brought in (juite insensible, and died in two