AFFECTIONS AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 149 appear most probable^ that an anemism was formed on the artery, and also a communication between the artery and vein by the original wound, and that wliilst the former was removed by the operation, the latter still remained. TMien the end of a metacarpal bone is removed in cutting off a finger, or when the thumb is amputated, there is a deep angle of tlie wound, which is often made with the point of the knife in turning it round. The vessel here sometimes stops bleeding soon after the operation, but it is very liable to burst out again, or it may continue to ooze, and put the patient’s life in danger. The difficulty of t}ung the vessel some time after the operation is at times very great indeed. Even the radial artery sometimes soon stops bleeding, but it is hardly safe to leave it, without a ligature or very careful bandaging:— A boy, about six years old, was cut on his hand by a knife being drawn between his thumb and forefinger. The wound went on well till fourteen days afterwards, when it suddenly burst out to such an extent, that the child was nearly dead when brought to the hospital. On admission the wound was compressed, and kept bandaged more or less for about a fortnight, when the boy was discharged with the part nearly healed. In the following case an opening was accidentally made in the brachial artery in bleeding. Although the case did well for a cer- tain time, yet an aneurism ultimately formed:— Witham Wdliams, aged 20, admitted March 12, 1842, under Mr. Stanley, having received a puncture of the left bracliial artery just before, in an attempt to bleed from the vena mediana basihca. The puncture was large and deep, the blood issued from it imme- diately very fast, and in two streams; one bright, the other darker. The hsemorrhage was stopped by bandaging the arm, winch bandage was continued for about seven days. The opening, however, inflamed, and the bandage was on this account discon- tinued. On the 28th of March, a swelling formed in the wound, with pulsation, which slowly increased. On April 1, this swelling bled very freely on the patient moving about; the brachial artery was therefore exposed by incision just above its division, and close to the puncture. The puncture was