142 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS ANU OBSERVATIONS IN SUROERY. tlie aorta. She is liable to pain in the head at times,, and states that occasional attacks of dyspnoea^ M'ith violent palpitations in the tumor^ occur, which alarm her considerably. The swelhng is said to have begun eighteen months since, and to have gradually increased up to the present time : no particular treatment appears to have been adopted. The swelling remained unaltered, and she went home in about a month. In the following case a very similar swelling occurred near the same situation, but in a patient much more advanced in life ;— A woman, aged 63, was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, labouring under a shght enlargement of the right lobe of the thyroid gland, by which the right common carotid artery was pushed out of its course, whilst at the same time it appeared to be dilated at a point situated a short distance below its division. This enlargement appeared to be a dilatation of the vessel, but was destitute of any pecuharity detectible by auscultation. The auscultatory signs indicated some unnatural eidargement of the heart; there was however no unnatural mur- mur. This disease or affection appeared to have been observed about two years previously, and to have gradually increased since. In the dissecting room, the common carotid artery, after injec- tion, often bulges in old people at this spot, but is not an incon- venience, or even a subject of attention to the patient during Ufe. In these cases the artery is simply dilated. In the following case, dilatation of the subclavian artery existed, of a kind very similar to that of the carotid in the above cases, but dissection showed hardly any change after death :— A woman, of about 50, was admitted into the hospital, with an aneurism of the abdominal aorta, and an enlargement of the right subclavian artery. There was a distinct murmur in the abdominal aneurism, but so little in the subclavian dilatation, that tdl did not agree about its existence. The woman died from rup- ture of the abdominal aneurism. The subclavian artery, on being cut open, was hardly dilated or diseased in any marked degree.* * It is perhaps nglit to add, that the artery was not suhnutted to a process of artificial dilatation.