104 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERV. jjleuraj numerous small eccli}unoses of blood existed, wliich in some places were almost confluent. A few tubercles existed in tlie apex of the lungs, which also presented one or two distinct spots of effused blood. The liver, spleen, and pancreas, were quite healthy; the left ventricle of the heart was large and its walls were tliickened. The kidneys were granular and lobulated ; the cortical sub- stance pale, diminished in size. Arm, and speclded with red and yellow dots. The cesophagus presented several deep vertical fissures of its lining membrane, near the cardiac orifice. The stomach presented a firm entire mucous membrane, of a general dark colour, with black veins, whilst the mucous membrane itself was in parts apparently ecchymosed. The lower .part of the small intestines, as well as the whole com’se of the large intestine, pre- sented streaks of bloody mucus, on the membrane, which in the caecum, and first part of the colon, was marked with numerous small idcers of a round form, and separate. The whole mucous membrane of the large intestines, and lower part of the small intestines, presented numerous ecchymoses, in some parts so great as to render' the mucous membrane quite sodden with blood. We next come to Delirium Ti’emens.. The most severe cases of dehrium tremens occur in hale, stout persons, habitual drinkers, but not necessarily often intoxicated, and after large losses of blood. In these persons the attack some- times commences at once, and is attended vdth the greatest violence, and the most frightful visions. The following case presents an example of the most severe form :—A muscular forgeman from the Welsh liiUs, coming up to London, fell asleep on a coach, tumbled off, and broke liis humerus liigh up, with enormous effusion of blood into the parts round. He was admitted luider Mr. Stanley’s care. Tliis man was reported to drink foui- gallons of beer daily, and Ids accident happened June 1. He was rather long in the descriptions of his misfortunes, but not particularly so, and remained going on well till 11 P.M., on June 3rd, At tlds time he suddenly woke up, pimped out of bed, and tlu’eatened to hit a patient, believing him to be a fiend, and supposing himself to be surrounded by evil spirits on ah sides. He was quieted, and remained so, describing the horrors of hell, which had been before him. This lasted only