234 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SURGEllY. perineum and parts in the neighbourhood of the genital organs are covered with elevated patches of hard^ sodden skin^ with foul acrid discharge, wliich cannot be distinguished from other condy- lomata. In the production of these, dirt and discharge seem to have a considerable share, and to explain their presence, and any classification of them with regidar constitutional cutaneous diseases, appears forced and unnecessary. The influence of iodine and of mercury are beneficial if they remove the ulceration or primary disease under which the patient labours; the cMef benefit, however, to the grovdhs themselves is from other means. Cleanliness, cure of the discharge from the uretlu’a and vagina, and keeping the parts accm’ately dry, are the most certain means of removing these growths, wlulst the applica- tion of the nitrate of silver freely to their sm-face diminishes their size rapidly, and materially hastens their removal. The application of calomel in powder to the parts after they have been well washed with chloride of soda, and then accurately di'ied, has been recommended. In some cases under Mr. Staide/s care this plan was tried at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and with a very good result. It was not, however, clear that the calomel acted otherwise than as a dry powder in removing these growths, wdiilst its application exposed the patient to the risk of salivation, which took place to a considerable degree in one instance. To obviate tliis risk the following treatment was tried, winch appeai-ed to be attended with aU the benefit and none of the inconvenience of the ajipHcation of calomel:— A woman was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under Mr. Stanley, suffering from two long strips of condylo- matous growths running along each side of the perineum, and ulcerated in some parts. She at fii-st employed opium lotion, and a solution of alum to the parts for about a week after ad- mission, with some rehef. The following treatment was then practised : the parts were first carefully washed vdtli the lotio sodsc chlorinatse, then dried and dusted with the oxide of zinc. Tliis was done twice daily, and was followed by the most marked benefit, the ulceration healing, and the growths subsiding so as to become level with tlie surrounding skin.