174 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGEI?Y. lowing is an instance of tliis aflection; it was accompanied with great inconvenience, and its external characters were rather those of an obscure tumor than an abscess. A deep puncture ivith a sheathed knife removed all doubt, and relieved the patient. The folloudng are the notes of the case :— A boy, 14 years of age, admitted under the care of Mr. LavTence, well in all respects except an aflection of the throat, with difficult respiration. The breathing is loud and stertorous, especially at night, when it is accompanied vdth spasms of the glottis threatening suffocation. The voice is weak and stridulous. Air enters both sides of the chest well and freely, and no tender- ness exists on pressure of the larynx. A round finn elastic swell- ing exists in the pharynx, on the front of the spine, not extending quite up to the base of the skull, but reaching downwards beyond the bne of sight; its measurement appears to be about an inch and a half across at the base, and its projection from the base to its apex about an inch, the most prominent part being opposite the opening of the glottis. The tongue, tonsils, and parts around, are apparently healthy. The cavity of the nose is free from any unnatural growth. After remaining in four days, the tumor was punctured twice deeply, when about an ounce and a half of pus escaped with im- mediate relief. The opening healed in one or two days, and the boy went out well in about one week from admission. This boy stated that the difficulty of breathing had existed during the last six weeks, and that it had increased grajjually. His friends stated that about ten days before admission he had swallowed a pin; of the truth of which statement, as well as every thing connected with it, the boy was quite ignorant. Of the great number of persons who attempt to destroy life by cutting the tln*oat, very few comparatively die immediately, al- though a large number never ultimately recover. The wounds in some consist of a mere cut in the skin over the larynx, or in a long cutaneous incision from one mastoid muscle to the other ; but in many the larynx or trachea are opened. The larynx in the neighbourhood of the glottis, and even the pharynx, are opened more commonly than the trachea low down, the incisions being directed