266 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. So bad, however, is the ulcer resulting from the opening of these swelhngs, and so complete the cure by milder means, that an exposure of their contents is to be avoided in every way. In cases of nodes unaccompanied by any acute inflammation (and such an accompaniment is very rare indeed), the employ- ment of hydriodate of potash is attended with the greatest benefit, and deserves trial before any other means are used. The general condition of the patient is frequently improved by its use, whilst the local benefit in the relief to the pain and in the diminution of the swelling is of the most marked kind. Although the employ- ment of iodine is so beneficial when administered internally, yet additional benefit is often derived from the local application of mercury to the affected part. Wlien the node is soft, the apph- cation of the strong mercurial ointment on a piece of soft leather, firmly apphed to the part, assists materially in diminishing the swelling, and even when the skin is extremely tliin the application of the pressure and ointment is not attended with any irritation or ulceration of the part. 3. Eheumatism. Patients much reduced in health, and labour- ing under phagedsenic disease, are very Hable to swellings of the knee and elbow joints in connexion with affections of the periosteum. Tins form of disease is sometimes very severe and accompanied with considerable pain, but yields to the same plan of treatment as the affection of the periosteum. Eheumatism connected with gonorrhoea is a much more painful and severe malady, and in extreme cases presents the characters of the most aggravated articular rheiunatism. Eheumatism occurring in con- nexion with gonorrhoea is, however, free from one great danger. Inflammation of the pericardium has not been described as occuring with it, and affection of the hning membrane of the heart rarely, if ever, occurs with it. Amongst the cases of pure gonorrhoeal rheumatism admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, affections of the heart and its membranes have not been found to occur in so marked a manner as to attract attention, when not especially looked for, and in a doubtful manner in one case only when attention was directed to tliis point. In one case of mild rheumatism in a venereal patient a slight affection of the sounds