20 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. hernia of the right side, which had descended twenty hours previously, accompanied with constipation and vomiting. On operation tlie sac contained but little fluid. A portion of congested, but other- wise healthy small intestine, was found in the sac, together with a cord-like portion of omentum, which passed to the bottom of the sac. The bowel was returned, after a division of the parts at the neck of the sac had been made upwards and inwards ; the omentum was left. No relief in any marked degree followed the operation. The patient continued to vomit, and sank, without having passed any motions, on the morning of March 20th. On examination, peritonitis was found to have occurred. The position of the viscera was, however, remarkable. A cord-like portion of omentum passed from the great omentum on the right side to the fundus of the sac; the great intestine, and a portion of the small intestine to the right of this, were pale, empty and contracted, whilst that to the left was full, distended and vascular, the boundary being decidedly and well marked at the line of pres- sure of the omentum. This woman had been operated on, on the left side, eighteen months previously, by Mr. Vincent. The sac on this side con- tained a portion of reducible intestine, and a portion of omentum very similar to that on the right side. In all the three preceding cases, the omentum, by its pressure either as a tight cord or as a broad fold, compressed the bowel in the canal or abdomen. In the following case the broad adhesions of the great omentum seemed to have acted indirectly in hastening the death of the patient, by preventing the intestine recovering its natural position after it had become twisted on itself. Although ex- erting only slight pressure when the parts were in their natural posi- tion, the omentum would compress them forcibly when distended. A woman, aged 48, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under Mr. Stanley, labouring under a femoral hernia of the left side, irreducible, but free from pain. On the right side, in the femoral opening, a hernial sac was felt, which was painfid on pressure of the part and just above the crural arch, whilst a very slight degree of fulness .was perceptible by deep pressiue over the vessels.