9 PRINTED FOR LONGMAN, BROWN, AND CO. LAllDNER’S CABINET CYCLOPAEDIA; Comprisin'' ii Series of Urii;iniil Works on History, Diosraphy, Literature, the Sciences, Arts, aud Munufactureii. Conducted and edited by Dr. LAUuNiiii. The Series, complete, in One Hundred and Thirty-three Volumes, i6’39.18s. The works, separate, 6s. per volume. LARDNER & WxVLKER —A TREATISE ON ELECTRICITY, MAGNETISM, and METEOROLOGY. Ey D. Lardnek, LL.D. E.R.S., and 0. V. Walker, Secretary of the Electrical Society. 2 vols. fcp. 8vo. 12s. cloth. LATHAM-ON DISEASES OE THE HEART. Lectures on Subjects connected with Clinical Medicine; comprisinp; Diseases of the Heart. Ey P. M. Latham, M.D. Physician Extraordinary to the Queen; and late Physician to St. Eartholomew’s Hospital. In Two Volumes. Vol. 1,12mo. 8s. cloth. “ A book pointedly designed and admirably suited to popularise the study of Diseases of the Heart; and, as it is one of no ordinary merit, both as to matter and style, we have great pleasure in reviewing it, chapter by chapter, from beginning to end. As appears, indeed, from what has been stated concerning the author’s own estimate of his labours. Dr. Latham’s work may be looked upon as a Cardiac Pathologn made Easy. But it is much more than this. It is a deeply reflective volume, replete with results indicative of close observation, and abounding with hints and directions which cannot fail to give a strong and beneficial impulse to the study of cardiac disease.”—British and Foreign Medical Review. LAYCOCK.-A TREATISE ON THE NERVOUS DISEASES OE WOMEN; comprising an Inquiry into the Nature, Causes, and Treatment of Spinal and Hysterical Disorders. By Thomas Laycock, M. D. Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in London. 8vo. 10s. 6d. cloth. LECTURES ON POLARISED LIGHT, Delivered before the Pharmaceutical Society, and in the Medical School of the London Hos- pital. 8vo. illustrated by above 50 Woodcuts, os. 6d. cloth. LEEEVRE.-AN APOLOGY EOR THE NERVES; Or, their Importance and Influence in Health andDisease. Bythelate Sir George Lefevre, M.D. Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, &c. &c. &c.; Atithor of “ The Life of a Travelling Physician,” “Thermal Comfort,” &c. Post 8vo. 9s. cloth. “ Sir George Lefevre’s ‘ Apology’ is one of those at once learned, gossiping, and clever works, which the profession, and many out of it, especially those who have lived long enough to sympathise with and enjoy the author’s peculiarities, will delight to peruse, without de- riving from it habits of superficial examination or dogmatical dictation.”—Literary Gaz. LEE.-LECTURES ON THE THEORY AND PRACTICE OE MIDWIFERY, delivered in the Theatre of St. George’s Hosp. By Robert Lee, M.D. F.R.S. Fellow of the Royal Coll, of Physicians, Physician to the Brit. Lying-in Hosp., and Lecturer on Midwifery at St. George’s Hosp. 8vo. with nearly 70 Illustrations on Wood, 15s. cloth. “ A truly practical work, containing not only the author’s opinions on the different sub- jects connected with midwifery, but the results of his experience, founded on an accurate knowledge of medical science, great industry and perseverance, and extensive opportunities of practice in the art of delivery at the British Lying-in Hospital. It forms a most excellent book of instructions, and will be found useful for the student, and also for the general prac- titioner, who will obtain from it the best kind of information on the various and indeed all points of material difficulty and of less frequent occurrence.”—Lancet. LEVER-PRACTICAL TREATISE ON ORGANIC DISEASES of the UTERUS: being the Prize Essay to which the Medical Society of London awarded the Fothergillian Gold Medal for 1843. By John C. W. Lever, M.D. Member of the Royal College of Physicians, London, Assistant-Accoucheur at Guy’s Hospital, &c. 8vo. 9s. cloth. “ Dr. Lever is one of those physicians who have a right to address the medical public. He has not written before he has seen, but, on the contrary, he has seen before he has written. The result is a sound, practical work ; not an analysis of other people’s opinions, but founded on the author’s own personal experience ; and, ns such, well deseiwing our serious considera- tion. We may safely pronounce his treatise one of the most practical and useful that have yet been published in our country; one which will undoubtedly tend to promote the study of uterine pathology.”—Lancet. LIEE (THE) OE A TRAVELLING PHYSICIAN, From his first Introduction to Practice; comprising Twenty Years’ Wanderings through the peater part of Europe: with Notes of Events, Descriplions of Scenery, and Sketches of Character. By the fate Sir George Lefevre, M.D. 3 vols. post 8vo. with 3 coloured Plates, i61. 11s. 6d. cloth. “The present work is written in a lively, often facetious, style—interspersed with deep reflection and acute observation. We return our best thanks to the unknown, or at least anonymous, author for the entertainment and information we have derived from Ids amusing life, which we hope will be prolonged so that he may be able, twenty years hence, to give us three more volumes of professional travels through modern Babylon.” Johnson’s Medico-Chiruroical Review.