253 MERCUUY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. and certain than that which occurs in some of the other forms of ulceration, wlnlst relapses after cure are also less frequently met with. iVlthough the mercurial effects on the constitution are chiefly to be deshed in tliis form of ulcer, yet the local applica- tion of the fumigation is not to be neglected in all cases. Taken alone, the efficacy of cinnabar fumigation is much less than that of mercury administered internally, but it is a great assistance in hastening the cm’e, and at times relieves the pain of the part in a very marked degree. The effect of fumigation is sometimes marked before any mercurial affection of the gums occurs, and even after a single application a sore sometimes assumes a healthy and healing surface. The hydriodate of potash may be employed with success in cases of the excavated ulcer of the tonsil; but the convalescence of the patient is more slow than when mercury has been employed, and is not always accompanied with the complete removal of the accompanying symptoms of syphilis, as generally occurs where mercury is employed. On the whole, the employment of hydrio- date of potash in this form of disease is not attended with that rapid or decided benefit which generally follows the employment of mercury. There are many patients labouring under syphilitic ulcers of the throat, wliich are foul and also ulcerated j presenting, in fact, a form of disease which combines many of the appearances of the excavated ulcers of the fauces and sloughy ulceration of the pha- rynx. Whether the disease is mixed or not is a matter of com- paratively trifling importance, compared with the fact that these ulcers are very amenable to a mixed plan of treatment. Under the administration of the hydriodate of potash internally, and the employment of cinnabar fumigation to the thi-oat, these cases do remarkably well, and give very little trouble. Patients labouring under the foul sloughy ulcer of the fauces are generally feeble, and very rarely present that condition of health which could be benefited by general bleeding, or active anti- phlogistic treatment. Their appearance is sickly, and they have often laboured on at their work with the disease hanging about them, until its severity has rendered them at last unable to work, and obliged them to apply for relief. To the greater number of these