Ill AT’FEOTIONS OF JOINTS. CHAPTER VIII. AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. / Occasional severity of pain in inflammation of the synovial membrane. Disease lin- gering in one joint after rheiunatism, its destructive action and occasional want of marked symptoms. Sudden acute disease of joints in healthy persons, terminat- ing in anchylosis without suppuration. Disease affecting the fibrous structm'e of a joini alone. Disease of the hip in a child, suddenly followed by dislocation, apparently without ulceration of the joint. Disease of the hip suddenly fatal, with cerebral symptoms. Anchylosis of the hip. Distension of the Icnee joint with fluid. Case of loose cartilage. Lumbar abscess, containing an unusual quantity of matter. Affection of the spine, in which the symptoms resembled partly those arising from injmy, as well as partly those arising from disease. Dissections of a contracted finger, of a case of talipes varus, and of contracted toes. It is remarkable how accurately the exact period at wliich ulceration commences in a joint may often he determined^ and how seldom the pecuhar signs of ulceration of cartilage are connected with any other change in a joint; yet sometimes acute inflamma- tion of the synovial membrane, and that in cases connected with rheumatism, or after exposure to cold, is accompanied with symp- toms of so severe a nature, as to resemble in many respects ulcera- tion of cartilage. In these cases there is severe pain on moving the joint, or press- ing its articular surfaces on each other; the patient is hable to sudden attacks of pain, and finds no rehef from letting the joint hang sus- pended. If these conditions were present in a joint which had been diseased for many months, where matters had been slowly getting worse and worse, and where destruction of the joint might be looked upon as likely, it might justly be considered that ulceration of cartilage was occurring; but in these cases of disproportionate suffering here alluded to, combined with simple inflammation of