177 AFFECTIONS OF MOUTH AND TRACHEA. nent part of the pomum Adami pushes the lower flap of skin down, so that a thick fold of skin lies across the cricoid cartilage, and the wound remains open. There is great difficulty in closing the wound in these cases. The parts bleed freely, and the blood runs into the larynx, whilst the space is at times hmited very much in thin old people by the superior thyroid arteries, which run just below the wound, and are very near the skin. When the wound implicates the trachea, tliis tube by its con- traction may complicate the case very seriously :—An old woman di\dded the trachea in about two-tliirds of its diameter, just below the cricoid cartilage, and was admitted under Mr. Stanley's care. In about six weeks the wound had nearly healed, but was still to a certain degree open; the opening now remaining was about the size of a fourpenny-piece, and allowed the air to pass in and out, but imperfectly. She was also troubled with a severe attack of bronchitis, wliich was accompanied with the expectoration of a very great quantity of watery fluid; this fluid clogged up the opening very much, and also passed up in large quantities from the mouth by cougliing. After about a weeFs duration of the bronchitis, she died rather suddenly. The parts were examined. The wound of the trachea was just below the cricoid cartilage. Tlie part below the division was diminished to the diameter of a third or half an inch, by thickening of the mucous membrane lining the trachea, and by diminution of the cahbre of the tube. This diminution of the diameter of the tube itself was rendered more serious by the contraction of the skin round the open- ing, wliich by overlapping it to a certain degree rendered it valvular. Of all risks there are few more awful than those from foreign bodies in the trachea: many persons may live and recover, but some have one struggle and are dead :— One evening a nurse ran in from the opposite ward across the passage, and called out that somebody was HI. The house-surgeon went directly, but the patient was dead immediately. A man with delirium tremens, and requiring restraint, had suddenly vomited, and not being able to move readily, the substance from the stomach had gone into the trachea. The same accident may occur in another way;—A person has N