AFFECTIONS AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS. 153 injury was confined nearly to the situation of the present swelling. The firm became extremely ecchymosed, and swelled gradually from the wrist to the shoulder. Tliis swelling, in about seven days, had subsided almost entirely: but about tliis time a swelling v'as perceived on the same spot, forming the present tumor, wliich has increased till admission, and thus reached its present size. In about a fortnight the swelling subsided. The following points in reference to the anatomy of arteries are mentioned here in eonnexion with injuries of those vessels. The femoral and the obturatrix arteries are perhaps more often connected with sm-gical proceedings than any other arteries, except those divided in amputations. To ascertain certain points con- nected with these vessels, accurate notes and measurements were made during the winter of 1843-4, in the dissecting room. The points desired to be ascertained were— 1. The exact point at which the sartorius reaches the femoral artery. 2. The point at which the arteria profunda fern oris is given ofl’. 3. The reasons wliich bring the obturatiix artery more or less in the Line of incision in the operation for femoral hernia, when tliis vessel is given off from the epigastric artery. The relations of the sartorius muscle to the femoral artery are important, not only on account of the difficulty which tliis muscle by its unusual size may add to the operation for aneurism, but also by the bad consequences wliich the opening of its sheath may lead to. In ten bodies the femoral artery was accurately examined, and the distance below the crural ring, at which the femoral artery began to be covered on its outer side by the upper edge of the sartorius muscles, was first examined, and then the point was found lower down, at wliich the lower edge of the muscle left the inner side of the artery. In tliis way the portion of the artery above the muscle, and the portion more or less covered by it, were ascertained. The following were the measurements :—