1 24 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY, Division of tlie flexor poUicis longus liad no effect. The flexor digitormn coinmunis, extensor digitorum communis, tibialis anticus, and peronasi, were quite lax. Large deep inci- sions were made through the substance of the abductor pollicis, flexor brevis digitorum, and abductor minimi digiti, which relieved the tension of the foot to a certain degree, but did not restore the foot completely to its right position, a considerable portion of the arching being caused by the hgaments. Tliis dissection quite accords with what occui’s during life in division of the tendons connected with a long standing varus. Division of the tibialis posticus and plantar fascia produces very little immediate result, but allows the change in the foot to be gradually and completely effected from that time. The mea- surements were carefully made, and shew the small distance at which the artery was situated from the inner side of the leg, as well as the relative size of the two veins accompanying it. The point at wliich the muscular fibres ceqsed to be inserted into the tendon of the tibialis posticus was half an inch within the sheath of the tendon, and only an inch and a half above the malleolus. 2, An old woman was brought for dissection in whom the right foot was distorted, the great toe being inchned outwards and forwards from its metatarsal bone, and carried beneath the toes near it, wdiich latter were thus lifted up and bent very much on each other. The metatarsal and tarsal bones were natural in form and direction, except a small depression on the upper surface of the distal extremity of the second metatarsal bone, and a small deposit of bone on the inner side of the distal extremity of the first metatarsal bone. The two phalanges of the great toe were some- what twisted on their axes, as well as directed obliquely outwards towards the second and thnd toes, so as to pass beneath them. The second toe was thus lifted up so much that its first phalanx rested by its proximal extremity almost at a right angle on the upper sm-face of the distal extremity of its metatarsal bone, where an old depression with bony edges was formed for it; the third toe was also lifted up. The distal extremity of the first meta- tarsal bone was thickened by small granular deposits on its surface^ cliiefly on its inner side; its metatarso-phalangeal joint was nearly natural as regiuds its caidilage, having, however, the internal