72 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIOJIS IN SURGERY. after severe shivering, accompanied with the most extreme feeble- ness of pulse. Her pulse is now, however, more perceptible, but rapid. Pupils rather dilated, quite insensible to light. The only motion is slow and difficult respiration, with stertor. She died calmly at 11 p.m. Head examined on the following day. Scalp natural on the left side. On the right side, a portion of the parietal bone was dead, and covered by a small quantity of watery pus. On the internal • surface a smaller portion of dead bone was seen, but not marked by a depression as on the outside, only by a deffiied line. A portion of diu’a mater, of a round form, half an inch in diameter, surrounded by a defined line, and exactly under this portion of bone, w^as found covered with a layer of a whitish-coloured creamy fluid: this portion of dura mater was firmly adherent to the arachnoid and to the surface of the brain, and easily separable from the suirounding dura mater at its circumference. The brain itself was much flattened, but equally so on the two sides ; the middle lobe, exactly under the injured portion of bone, con- tained an abscess with irregular greenish-coloured walls, separated from the ventricle and membranes by a tliin layer of cerebral substance. The abscess contained two ounces of a greenish foetid pus. The base of the skull contained two ounces of a semi-opaque fluid; the brain was otherwfise healthy. Discharge of a Avatery fluid from the ear, in considerable quantity, is seen as an occasional accompaniment of injury to the head. In some cases the patients recover, and, leaving the hospital, are not seen again; in other cases the patient dies, and, on examination, a fracture of the skuU may be found. The treatment of the case is not altered by the flow of fluid, but it is of inq)ortance to know the real value of this symptom. In the tlu’ce folloAving cases the parts were examined after death. James Dukes, set. 16, admitted April 21st, 1842, under Mr. Stanley, with a large head, bleeding from the left car, partially sensible, and having vomited just before admission. Pupils sen- sible; neither dilated nor contracted. He has falleJi eight feet on his head, just before admission, and is now apparently reco- vering from stiuming. The fluid escaping from the left Ccu: is