INJURIES OF THE BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 45 well united by moderately firm fibrous substance; the lower portion was drawm up, so that about one quarter of an inch of its fractured sm-face projected above and beyond the fractured bne of the upper portion, ivliilst below, a portion of the upper part projected beyond the lower edge of the neck. The line of fracture extended from above downwards and inwards, so that a long angle was formed at the lower pai-t of the neck : this angle was driven into the head and fixed there, some part of the neck being also crushed above into its interior substance. The head of the bone was slightly rotated from above downwards and inwards, the two ends of the ligamentmn teres being at the same time shghtly approxi- mated. The neck of the opposite femur was very horizontal, and slightly twisted forwards and downwai’ds. The bed of Mr. Earle, and the bent position on the side, have been discontinued latterly in great part at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, for the long straight splint. The limbs unite better, the trouble is less, and the expense is much less ; the high beds being verj'^ dear, and spoilmg a blanket each time that they are' covered. There is also another evil in hospitals; if fleas or bugs once get into a liigh bed, it is very hard to get rid of them. There are, however, some cases where a high bed is good. If a patient has two broken thighs, or legs, a high bed allows the chest to be raised, and thus he can move, and is less liable to risk in vomit- ing. It is said, that a fracture in the upper tim’d is not so liable to rise on the high bed, as the lower portion can be brought up to meet it. This is very doubtful, indeed, in practice. Thighs broken in the middle, and not fuUy extended, generally unite with the low'er end of the upper part on the outside, or iu front of the upper end of the lower portion. This is very hard to prevent on the high bed, and a mere matter of chance on the side ; but with a long splint, and a long inguinal band right up to the axilla, as high as can well be done, it is partially prevented. The femur is occasionally broken transversely just above, as well as at the same time vertically between the two condyles, so that the two fractures resemble the letter T ; the upper fractui’o representing the horizontal line, and the fracture between ihe condyles the descending line of the letter. This ii ijury is charac-