19:2 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. when he was removed to lodghigs. He was now able to walk about, but still suffered from the discharge of faeces and urine from the abscess; the former once or twice a week, and the latter more or less daily. He remained much the same till the middle of June, when he died at liis lodgings rapidly in about six hours, having laboured under fever, with vomiting, and more or less retention of urine, for the few last days of his life: living thus about seven months from the original injury. No examination was made, his death being only accidentally known. Of the great number of eases of severe inflammation of the hand, occurring in the working classes, and arising generally from injury, very few instances are met with in which suppuration does not occur. Although venesection and active general treatment, employed at an early period, seem to render the inflammation less severe, to limit the suppuration, as well as to render it manifest at a more early period, yet they very rarely entirely prevent it. The occurrence of severe inflammation of the parts near the tendons of the hand of a working man, at whatever period it is flrst seen, or in whatever way it is treated, will generally recpiire the use of the knife. Although the inflammation of the arm, and the accompanying fever, are very great in many of these cases, yet there is little to fear from its severity. At times, however, the inflammation of the hand consists, not in inflammation passing rapidly into deep suppuration, but in thickening of the cellular tissue beneath the skin with hardly any increase of blood, so that on an incision being made into it nothing but a greenish yellow firm texture is found, from which a small quantity of pus oozes. This altered tissue dies in mass, and the patient's fever is at all times of so low a character that life appears to be in constant danger. The great point of interest in cases of inflamed hand is to save the joints and tendons, and some idea of the probable njury to these parts may generally be formed at an early period. It is remarkable how rarely in these cases the pus affects the wrist-joint, matter, even in great quantity, flowing freely under the annular ligament, without doing any harm to that part. The