62 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. meiits above and below_, as well as the fibrous connections with the parts around the shoulder joints fix it firmly. The absence of any inequality^ as well as of crepitus^ render the detection of fracture in tliis situation often very difficult; the nature of the injury is, however, rendered more or less plain, in general, by a consciousness of injury, the description of the accident, a weakened and painfid condition of the arm, and pain over the injured spot. So great at times is the pain produced by pressm'e over the injured spot, that a strong nlan, on the clavicle being pressed on its outer tliird, will scream out, and describe the pain as resembling the pressure of an immense and unbearable weight. Tlie clavicle is situated so directly under the skin, that any irregu- larity in its outline is plain, especially in women, and occasionally very painful, from pressing on the plexus of nerves. The most common irregularity consists in the prominence of the outer end of the inner fragment, which rides over the outer and depressed portion. This inconvenience is often extremely difficult to obviate, and may occur from the simplest fracture; indeed, it occasionally happens that a comminuted fracture of the cla,vicle unites in a straight line, and ndth less unevenness than a simple fracture. A patient applied at the surgery of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in whom, the collar bone having been broken near the sternal ex- tremity, the broken portions had united very irregidarly. The short sternal extremity had remained fixed at its union to the sternum; the broken end had been drawn obliquely upwards, whilst the remainder of the clavicle had remained horizontal, and, unit- ing to the under part of the obliquely placed inner portion, formed with it an acute angle. Fractures of the clavicle are treated sometimes purposely by position alone, and at other times the bandages have so little in- fluence on the position of the bone, that its adjustment is chiefly dependent on the recumbent position of the patient. The em- l)loyment of bandages affords, however, the best prospect of a complete and regular imion of the fracture, does not require con- finement to bed, and is the best mode of treatment: when, hon^- ever, the patient for other reasons is confined to bed, tlie know- ledge of the fact that fractures of the clavicle oft en unite very well when the patient is confined to the back in bed, and no ban-