(i6 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEEVATIONS IN SURGERY. gain its proper situation. The sudden yielding of tlie parts, taken together with the immediate closure of the joint in front, i-endered it probable that the tendon -had suddenly slipped round the side of the extremity of the phalanx, and in this manner ceased to be any obstacle to the reduction of the dislocated parts. The peculiar features of this case tended to throw some light on the occasional difficulty which is found to exist in the reduction of this form of dislocation, and to suggest the idea of an impor- tant obstacle occasionally arising from the peculiar position of the flexor longus poUicis. In the preceding case the obstacle was overcome; but the following case, presenting exactly the same appearance, was accompanied with such complete immobility, as to be quite irreducible. A man was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in the summer of 1843, under the care of Mr. Stanley, with a compound dislocation of the right thumb ; the lower end of the middle phalanx behig thrown forwards through the skin on its palmar surface, whilst the ungual phalanx was thrown backwards. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis was not visible, although its groove, and the articular end of the middle phalanx, were plainly ' seen, the end being protruded so far through the skin that the situation of the attaclunents of the lateral ligaments was visible, destitute, however, of all hgament. The bone was also slightly tilted to one side. The thumb felt tolerably loose, but all efforts were ineffectual in reducing the dislocated bone, whether simple extension or lateral motion. Under these circumstances the part Avas ordered to be kept coAxred with a poultice, and left in its new situation. Looking at the difficulty of reducing this case, on June 18th the following experiment was made on the dead body by Mr. Stanley. An incision was made across the distal joint of the thumb, resembling that occurring in compound dislocation. The sheath of the tendon and lateral ligaments were divided, wliilst the tendon of the flexor longus Avas allowed to pass behind the middle phalanx, and consequently betAveen the tAvo bones at the joint, Avhich AA'as dislocated. Great difficulty Avas found now to exist in reducing the dislocation, wliich Avas found to increase in proportion as the sheath of the tendon AA'as divided higher up, and the tendon