193 ABSCESSES OP THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. joints between the phalanges suffer much more commonly than those between the metacarpus and phalanges, and of the two, that between the first and second phalanx more often than that between the second and thu*d. Suppuration in the sheaths of the flexor tendons of the thumb and little Anger is much more commonly followed by separation of the entire tendon, and matter running up the arm, than when of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th fingers. Wlien the abscess is opened at once, the tendons generally escape, but when the matter is not evacuated till late, and most especially if the stress of the disease has been in one finger, or accompanied from the first by an open wound, the tendon dies more or less. The tendons on the back of the hand are at times, by loss of the skin and cellular tissue, cleanly dissected out, and yet do not die, the parts slowly granulating, and a useful though somewhat stiif hand remaining. When the matter forms in the hand, it frequently runs up the fore arm, and is let out in that part. At times, however, an oedematous condition of the arm, with fluctuation of so decided a character, is found, that an incision is made for matter in the fore- arm, even into the muscles, without the escape of any matter; the effused serum causes this fluctuation, and although no matter escapes from the arm, yet some of the blood from the woimd of the arm will at times run down, and come out at the openiugs in the hand, immediately after the opening has been made. Wlien matter forms among the muscles of the ai’m, disturbance of the nervous system, resembling the maniacal form of delirium tremens, may occur:—A middle-aged man, under Mr. Lawrence’s care, in bad health, had an abscess among the muscles of the fore-arm, wliich was opened; the man seemed to be very nervous and frightened at the time. On the second even- ing after this he became very violent, walked about the ward raving, and saying that his arm was quite weU. Some wdne was given him on the following day; the arm was more swelled and inflamed, and afterwards suppurated deeply and freely. No re- currence of these symptoms took place, and he went out well. In the cold weather of December and January, 1840-41, two men, aged nineteen and twenty respectively, were admitted under Mr. Laivrence’s care, for swelling of the integuments, and subjacent 0