INJURIES OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 61 Compound dislocation of the shoulder joint is very rare, but occurred in the following case. George Maugle, mt. 19, admitted Jan. 26th, 1842, under Mr. Lawrence, labouring under a compound dislocation of the right shoulder, in consequence of ha\dng hurt liimseK in a threshing- mill. The skin was torn in a semicircle at the back, beneath and a little in front of the joint. The bracliial artery could be felt pul- sating, but neither it nor the plexus were exposed. The head of the bone rested on the ^ferior costa of the scapula, but was not visible; the finger passed between the muscles, however, reached it. A portion of the latissimus dorsi hung out, and was cut off by the house-sm-geon. The dislocation was easily reduced with slight extension, and the wound was then sewed up. The man had some very slight fever afterwards, ivith a small suppuration near the joint, wliich wns let out. He went outLeb. 20th, able to raise Ins ai’m to a certain degree, and to perform voluntary motion. The deltoid was diminished in size. On ]\Iarch 11th, three months after, he was seen. The wound quite healed, the shoulder much diminished in size, the power of elevation nearly lost, and the motions chiefly underhand. In this case of severe injury, either nerves or tendons might weU be torn. The following case is of interest in connection with it:— A man was admitted, in the summer of 1840, with a severe injury to the shoulder, and died of dehiium tremens. On exami- nation, the humerus was found broken high up, the capsule of the joint opened, and the circumflex nerve torn completely across. The same dislocation, in the same man, may be reduced with ease or difficulty according to liis condition. A man was admitted sober into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital with a dislocation of the humerus into the axilla, which had occurred several times before; but which, however, required the pulleys. In a day or two he again came, but drunk, with the arm dislocated: the dislocation now went in readily on the heel. AVhen the clavicle is broken in the outer third, the broken portions arc very frequently not separated from each other, in con- sequence of the strong attachments of the conoid and trajje- zoid ligaments to the part, which, with the fmn muscular attach-