INJURIES OE THE BONES OE THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 41 of the right foot; the head of the bone felt at the upper and back part of the sciatic notch. No abduction could be performed. Extension was made without pulleys for two miuuteSj when the bone slipped in, and remained there. Recovery was complete; she went out, walking quite well, in about three weeks. A boy, aged 5 years, was admitted under Mr. Vincent, labouring under a dislocation of the left thigh-bone. The limb was colder than the opposite one, and of a bluish colour; everted, not very moveable; the knee and groin both bent, and the limb resting on the toe. Wlien the child lay on the back, the head of the bone could hardly be felt; but on making him stand up, the head of the bone could be felt beneath the psoas and diacus, with the artery running over it. The want of any prominence, from the great trochanter being canied inwards, was very marked, as also a sinking in at the lower edge of the gluteus maximus muscle. The head of the bone could hardly be felt when the cliild lay down, but could be distinctly rotated with the thigh-bone when it stood up. No crepitus was any where found. The accident happened by the child falling on its legs wliilst riding on the beam of a cart, which suddeidy proceeded. The limb vns extended with little benefit till the thigh was well adducted, when the bone quietly slipped into its socket, and tlie blue colour of the limb began to subside directly. The limb now became quite natural in relations, motions, and form. He went out in about three wneks quite w^ell. In the two following cases some fracture had probably taken place in connection with the acetabulum. In the first case it pre- vented the reduction, but in the second (if the paticnEs account was true), it seemed as if it allow^ed the reduction to take place eiisily, at the same time that the dislocation w'as liable to recur. A young man, aged about 20, three weeks before admission dislocated his hip by a violent fall on the side, from cludk falling upon him: as the limb could not be reduced in the country, he was sent to the hospital, and admitted under Mr. Lawrence. The right limb w'as shortened an inch and a half, much inverted, and the head of the femur easily felt on the lower and back part of the dorsum ilii. 'Ihe limb was extended powerfully, nearly in a straight line, for