114 CIJNTCAL C’OLLECTIOKS AND OBSKllVATTONS IN SUROERY. rally severe^ but occurring in occasional paroxysms and disturbing her rest. June 1st.—Since admission, she has taken some occasional doses of antimony and purgative medicines; the cliief treatment has, how- ever, consisted in keeping the arm quite quiet, and applying leeches frequently. The elbow, fore arm, and hand, are still quite oedema- tous, and the joint quite as painful on any attempt at motion. July 6th.—The occasional employment of leeches to the joint has been continued. The swelhng of the arm is nearly all re- moved ; the arm has become somewhat more straight since admis- sion, but is just as painful on any attempt at motion. This girl went out in the autumn. The sweUing and pain had subsided; the elbow had been bent forcibly, so that it was nearly at a right angle, but it was apparently nearly fixed in this position. In November, 1843, I saw her well in health. The arm was bent, muscular, and of its natural size, but apparently quite firmly anchylosed, not the least motion being performed by the elbow in any way. 2. A respectable woman applied to Mr. Stanley at the hospital, in February, 1843, on account of stiffness of the elbow joint, being otherwise quite well and hi good health. The left elbow was free from any pain, heat, or sweUing, but bent at an obtuse angle, and thus incapable of being weU raised to the head. The fore arm was supinated, and the elbow only admitted of the slightest degree of flexion and rotation ; this shght motion was, however, unaccom- panied with pain. She knew no cause whatever to which she could attribute the affection. Five months since, she had an acliing pain in the left shoulder, which did not by its severity confine her to bed, but after lasting for two or three days, was followed by a sudden pain in the left elbow, which was very severe, succeeded by swelhng of the joint in a short time, and obhged her to lay up in bed. She also stated, that the pain in the shoulder gradually subsided, whilst the pain and swelhng of the elbow increased rapidly, and was accompanied with fever. Under the employment of general means, and leeches to the joint, the acute affection sub- sided in about fourteen weeks, and her arm was placed in its pre- sent condition, which it lias maintained during the seven weeks which have elapsed since.