10 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. Cysts ill front of the sac, and the deficiency of fluid in the sac, have occurred only in cases of femoral hernia, the flow of any quantity of fluid always indicating, in the cases of inguinal hernia wliich have occurred recently, that the sac has been opened. The presence of fluid in the sac of the inguinal hernia has not, how- ever, always been a protection to the bowel or omentum in open- ing the sac, for not unfrequently the omentum has presented itself immediately on the sac being opened, the mass of the fluid being behind. The character of the fluid has appeared in general to be con- nected with the condition of the bowel or omentum, and very little with the state of the sac itself. Thus a dark sac, or one quite pale and white, may contain any kind of fluid. Thus, in one case especially, the sac.outside was foimd of a purple coloiu-, and when opened to be of a very dark colour, even on its hning membrane, yet the fluid contained in the sac was tolerably clear. The characters of the fluid found in the sac have often formed an important subject of consideration, in reference to what has already happened, as well as to the real condition of the patient. Clear straw-coloured fluid, in any quantity, has never by itself been a matter of much interest in any Avay; the pi’esence of blood, more or less diluted, the existence of a brown shade in the fluid, or the free flow of fluid from the ring after the return of the bowel, have always however indicated something of importance. The bloody fluid in the sac appears to depend not unfrequently on the close stricture, the coats of the bowel itself feeling thick and leathery. A middle-aged man was admitted witli an inguinal rupture of the size of a goose-egg, tense, very small, and hard at the ring. On operation, only thirteen hours from strangidation, the protruded bowel was found of a deep purple colour, and much thickened with blood eflused into its coats. Tlie sac was full of bloody fluid. In this case bowel only was found in the sac: in the following case the same appearances were found, but the omentum ap])eared to have been the source of the blood. A middle-aged woman was admitted with a lemoral hernia, which was ojieratcd on bykir. Stanley forty-two liours from stran-