MEUCUUY AND IODINE IN VENEHEAL DISEASES. 261 and the mild employment of mercury, that iodine has not been tried to any great extent. An account of the efficacy of iodine in the treatment of the hardness remaioing after epididymitis has, however, been pubhshed by M. Eusebe de Salle.* After the employment of leeches and antiplilogistic treatment in the acute stage of the affection, hydi-iodate of potash was applied to the scrotum, and small doses of iodine were administered internally. Under tliis plan a marked diminution took place in the swelling, so that the testicle in two or tlu’ee weeks gradually assumed its natural condition; some small gi-anular bodies, however, remaining in the paif. The venereal swelling of the testicle is not very uncommon, but is stiU one of the rarer forms of syphilitic disease. The course of this complaint rarely varies, and the period at which it occurs is generally the same. This complaint occurs in two classes of patients : in one, the patients are weak, and have laboured under several symptoms of syphilis for a considerable period; so that this affection may be classed in the same order as the affections of the bones, both from the period at which it occurs as well as from the low condition of the patients them- selves. In the other class the patients are in tolerably good health, and labour under this symptom alone. The testicle in this disease is generally enlarged, but retains in a very con- siderable degree its natural form, marked here and there with a few nodules, firm, somewhat’ elastic, and accompanied with a slight fulness of the cord, without enlargement of the vas deferens. The scrotum is not affected; it may, however, be doubted whether such is always the case;—A man was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, with an obscure enlargement of the testes, accompanied with numerous firm nodules on their surface; numerous hard cutaneous tubercles of the skin were found on the scrotum. The disease approached more nearly in its characters to syphilis than to any other aflection, although such a cause was denied. The man was relieved chiefly by the em- ployment of hydriodatc of potash. The records of surgeiy illustrate the difficulty of cm-ing this * Journal Complomcntairo du Dictioimairc dcs Sciences Mcdicalcs, Vol. xk. p. 193.