18 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. This man liad been operated on in the hospital sixteen months before, for the same rupture, by Mr. Skey, when the bowel had been returned, and the omentum left in the sac, to the cicatrix of which it had then united by granulation. On examination, the ring was found to be large and free. A small piece of ileum lay in the ring, continuous, in the direction of the caecum, with about a foot more of small intestine,—all this portion in the ring and abdomen being dark and much congested, but shining. These changes terminated abruptly at what ap- peared to have been the strictured part. Prom the arch of the stomach to the scrotal cicatrix the great omentum descended like a tight cord, tightly compressing the bowels against the back of the abdomen, and against the hernial sac. The bowels were very much distended above the strictured portion, whilst below they were quite empty and flaccid. In the case just related the strangulation was caused by a tight band of omentum passing down into the sac, which compressed the bowels in the neck of the sac and cavity of the abdomen. Tlie end of the omentum was within reach, and if the peculiar nature of the case had been pointed out by plain symptoms, and a division of it made, a fair hope might have been entertained of recovery. In the follovdng case the symptoms of strangulation depended, as in common strangulated hernia, on the contraction of the parts in the ring; but the fatal result was caused by extensive adhesion in the abdomen of the omentum along the upper edge of the pehds, wliich kept the boM'els in a mass at the back of the abdo- men, and which, by its pressure, prevented a free passage through the viscera. This adhesion was quite beyond reach. A woman, aged 51, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, on Dec. 22d, 1843, labouring under a large femoral hernia of the right side, wliich had descended on the previous day. The swelling was tender on pressure, and accom- panied with pain in the belly, sickness, and constipation. On operation, a large portion of omentum was found adherent to the sac, behind which was a portion of inflamed but shining intestine. The ring was freely divided, but tlie bowel was returned witli some difficulty.