MERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 241 best plan of treatment. In some cases the general fumigation of the body is employed^ but on the whole the internal administra- tion of mercury is attended with less risk of a sudden violent sahvatioUj wliicli is, in the pustular form of eruption, to be cai’e- fully avoided. In the forms of eruption already described the employment of mercury is attended with eonsiderable benefit, the eruption in some or aU of its stages yielding rapidly to that medicine. The majority of these patients labour under a disease unattended with any particular severity, and the disease passes tlirough a regu- lar course, in which the employment of the same means under the same circumstances produces a most favourable and even result. The remaining class of skin affections includes a great number of patients, especially among the poor, whose ailments, in general, yield to treatment; but stiU they are often cured with the greatest difficulty, and in some few cases the patients die. These patients labour under ulcers of the skin of every variety, and are in the most varied state of health, though it is far more common to find an extreme deficiency than an excess of strength amongst them. These cases of severe secondary ulceration of the skin arise from many causes; of which the following are the most common. The eruptions of long standing, especially the pustular and tubercular, terminate in ulceration, not unfrequently as a part of their regular progress, and often from neglect; ulcers also of the scalp and ex- tremities commence hke ulcerations in other parts, occurring in great number, scattered here and there, or in a small quantity, but of a very severe form. The eruption which forms the conical crust of rupia is followed by a most obstinate form of ulceration, and occasionally small hard masses form under the skin, soften and burst by a small opening surrounded by thin blue skin, this opening leading into a round cavity with hard sides, and secreting an unhealthy pus. Such are the most common forms of the severe secondary ulcers of syphilis, dependent on a few principal causes. The prostitutes of the lowest class, and men in the most utter poverty, who are admitted time after time into hospitals, laboiu’ing under one attack of syphilitic disease after another, and who seem R