BURSAL TUMORS. 91 pain, yet the cure is more complete, and quite compensates for this accident. Kemoval of bursae simply for their inconvenience is a serious matter. In the summer of 1843, a woman was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, with a bursa of many years' standing, on the patella, disabling her from foHomng her employment. This bursa was round, wdth very tliick walls, mth a smooth internal lining, and its cavity contained a great quantity of small round bodies mixed with a very small quantity of fluid. The parts around in- flamed, abscesses formed in the thigh, and the woman got into so low a condition as to be in danger, but recovered ultimately. "Wlien the secretion is more or less mixed with pus, the pain is generally great, and the relief from any application none, or very slight. Occasionally, however, patients complain of very little pain, and the disease is of so mild a nature that it might be sup- posed to be a mere increased secretion of serous fluid; yet, even with tliis want of any urgent symptoms, the bursa has been seen to give way, and discharge puriform contents. The bursal enlargement on the patella generally assumes the simple round form, but occasionally presents itself as an irregular oval tumor, or as a swelling marked by contractions in one or two places; these contractions being generally dependent on the divi- sion of the internal cavity of the bursa by partitions proceeding from the walls of the bursa. In the dissection of the knee of a sailor, who had been a sea-cook, the bursa on the patella was found enlarged to much beyond its natural dimensions, and divided into foiu or even more cavities communicating with each other. It can be also easily conceived, that the enlarged bursa might be pressed on by the surrounding fibrous structures, and thus be of different capacity in different parts. Enlargement, with the collection of fluid in the sheaths of the flexor tendons of the fingers, forms occasionally a serious disease, from its extent, impairment of the functions of the piut, and diffi- culty of cure. This swelling extends occasionally from the extreme ends ol the metacarpal bones over the palm, and under the annular ligament to some distance above it; including, hi fact, the entire course ol the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons.