275 MERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASE. great and so very much more active than those of any other medicine with ivlueh we are acquainted. The value of an eye prevents any experimental proceedings being made as to the efficacy of a doubtful means^ where a certain one is already known. On tliis account iodine has not yet been tried in this affection to any extent. The benefits of hydriodate of potash after the employment of mercury have been mentioned by ]\Ir. Lawrence in the following paragraph in liis Treatise on Diseases of the Eye. “ In some cases, where mercury has dis- agreed, or where, after a fair trial, the affection of the eye has not either improved or got worse, I have lately employed, with excellent effect, the iodide of potassium, giving tliree or four grains in two or three ounces of the compound decoction of sarsaparilla three times a day. The beneficial operation of the change seems analogous to what we observe from the same succession of remedies in certain cases of venereal disease.'’'’ In the following case the employment of hydriodate of potash was attended with benefit in diminishing the sweUing winch resulted from the giving way of the tunics of the eye after long- standing and very obstinate syphihtic iritis. A middle-aged man had completely lost the sight of one eye from long-standing syphilitic iritis, which terminated at last in the protrusion of a mass of lymph through the sclerotic at the margin of the cornea, forming a painful fungus projecting between the hds. This mass was so inconvenient and painful that the removal of it with the knife was considered proper, but previous to adopting tliis means hydriodate of potash was given at Mr. Lawrence’s suggestion, in five-grain doses, tlnee times in the day. Under this plan the parts rapidly decreased in size, and rendered the removal of the sweUing uimecessary. Inflammation of the auditory meatus, with puriform discharge, has been pointed out from time to time by Mr. Lawrence in tJie wards of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital. The same disease has also been mentioned by Mr. Welbank"^ as occumng with other secondary symptoms; it is also alluded to by Benjamin Bell.! In * Mcdico-Chirurgical Transactions, vol. xjii. p. 390. t A Treatise on Gonorrhoea Virulcnta, by B. BcU, 1797, vol. ii. p. 145.