219 MERCUllY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. ulceration is seen to assume from various causes tliis unhealthy state. The majority of patients presenting this form of sore have laboured under some form of venereal ulceration from two to five weeks in a mild form; but the pain accompanjdng the com- mencement of this more serious form soon induces them to apply for relief. When much infiammation exists^ leeches have been employed in the first instance to the inflamed part^ but the chief reliance has been placed on the employment of mercury. In some cases, where the disease was not very well marked, opium and other lotions have been employed before the administration of mercury, with slight relief in general to the pain, but vdthout any marked influence on the progress of the disease. Under these circumstances the emplo3ment of mercury is attended with more advantage than any other plan of treatment. The employment of some form winch produces its effects rapidly being desired, calomel is most commonly used in doses of two grains, with a tliird of a grain of opium, every six or eight houi’S, until some degree of sahvation has been produced.* In some of these cases the employment of blue pill, with the local application of mercury, is attended with some beneficial re- sult; the effect produced by the direct application of mercury being well marked, and attended with immediate advantage. The mercmial effect oji the constitution is not, however, produced so rapidly in these cases as under the employment of calomel; the employment of blue pill being more suited to those cases in wliich the disease runs a less rapid course. The change in the appearance of the ulcer manifests itself at the same time as the mercury begins to affect the mouth; the pain then begins to cease, the white and unhealthy appearance of the sore not to extend, and in different parts of the sore, here and there, generally near the edge, red granidations appear, whilst a more puriform secretion takes the place of the Mutery foetid fluid. This is followed in some cases by the separation of a well- marked slough, but more commonly by the gradual removal or * In thc! Medical Gazette, vol. x.xi. p. 010, Mr. Lnwrenee lias described the im- portance of tliis plan of treatment. Cases of a similar kind, and l)cnefited hy the employment of mercury, have also been described by W. Darraeh, jSl.D., riiiladcl- phia, in the North American Medical and Surgical .loiu-nal, 1829, vol. vii. p. 274.