274 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. moved, and tlie sight restored, but with shght obscurity to vision remaining in some cases. In the greater number of cases the disease has presented an acute character, and calomel with opium, as producing in the most convenient and certain manner a rapid effect, has been em- ployed. This effect has generally commenced on the evening of the second, or morning of the tliird day. When the mercurial action has been estabhshed before admission, the Hydrargyrum cum Greta has been employed to contmue it. When the disease has been neglected, and has termuiated in a greater or less degree of bhndness, or when the acute stage of the disease has passed by, but the affection is still advancing in a chronic form,—even under these unfavourable circumstances, the exliibition of mercury has been attended with the greatest benefit. The employment, for a considerable time, of small quantities of hydrargyrum cum creta in cases of chronic inflammation, and that lingering form wliich occasionally follows acute disease, lias appeared to be attended with the best effects. Amongst the patients in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital under the care of Mr. Lawrence, numerous examples of this have occurred, and some of the most marked have been amongst patients labouring under old iritis, even when the disease from its extent appeared hopeless. The effect of the employment of mercury in syphihtic iritis may be thus described. When the disease has been presented for treatment at an eaidy stage, and before any effusion of lymph has occurred, the iris only having suffered change, and no distmct effusion of masses having occurred, the influence of mercury, ac- companied sometimes with blood-letting, has been most marked, and the patient has recovered with a perfect eye. Such is also the general result, if the disease is treated early, even when con- siderable effusion of lymph has occurred. The age of the effused lymph appears to be much more important than the quantity. The existence of distinct vessels on the lymph, the presence of a streak of a semi-fluid opaque substance in the bottom of the anterior chamber, the relapse of the disease after pai'tial cure, the occurrence of disease in one eye after the cure of the other eye, do not necessarily prevent a cure, and a just expectation may be- held out of such cases doing well; the effects of mercury being so