270 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEEVATIONS IN SURGERY. ulcers of the conjunctiva are healed, their situation being marked by red patches of membrane; a small ulcer has, however, formed on the inside of the lower hd, similar to tliat existing on ad- mission. The tliroat, arm, and face, are nearly well. On Eeb. 12th, 1841, this man was again admitted. The left lower eyehd is swelled, so as partially to close the eye. On the conjunctival surface of the Hd, near the inferior punctum, and partially implicating the tarsal edge, is an ulcer of the size of a fourpenny piece, with irregular sharp edges, considerable sur- rounding redness, and a hard basis, which gives to the sore an elevated appearance. The surface of the sore is covered with an adherent matter of a greenish yellow colour. There is also some affection of the throat and face, with an ulcer of the scalp. Pil. Sap. c. Opio, gr. v. every night. Decoct. Sarzae Co. three times daily. Hydr. c. Greta gr. ijss. three times daily. Peb. 26th.—The ulcer on the lower Hd is partly cicatrized, and presents a healthy surface. No pustules are visible on the inner surface of the lower Hd. The pustules of the face are very few in niunber, and the throat is quite weU. The gums are slightly affected. To continue the decoction of sarsapariHa, and to continne the yeUow wash to the head, which lotion was begun on the 20th. To continue the Hydr. c. Greta tliree times daily, tlus medicine having lately been taken four times in the day. March 9th.—Made an out-patient. The ulcer of the lower Hd is healed; the lower punctum lachrymale is just on the inner side of the ulcer, and appears to be somewhat less pervious than natu- ral. No deformity of the Hd exists, except a sHght loss of sub- stance, which renders more of the anterior part of the eye visible than natural. The ulcer of the head is quite healed. The papular eruption of the skin sometimes extends to the con- junctiva of the Hds, when it causes great annoyance and pain. The patient under these circumstances complains of pain in the eye, increased by exposure to the light, and accompanied by a profuse flow of tears on the Hds being widely separated. The conjunctiva of the globe of the eye is red and very vascular, whilst a slight purple zone is also visible in the sclerotic round the margin of the cornea. The Hds are swelled, and on eversion are