AFFECTIONS OF THE UEINAUY AND GENITAL OEGANS. 159 A simple puncture is at times sufficient to cure a liydrocele :—• An old man was admitted with a hydrocele, and stated that the present hydrocele had begun to collect nine weeks previously ; he also mentioned that he had suffered from this hydrocele nine years previously, and that after it had been tapped then, he remained free from it for nine years, till its present recurrence. Simple tapping was successful in another case in the hospital, but sup- puration occuri’ed in the cavity of the hydrocele; the man had gonorrhoeal discharge from the uretlma, and perhaps this may have rendered the parts more irritable. Pree exposure of the cavity of a liydrocele is not however always attended with mild inflammation:— Eemoval of a small portion of the scrotum had been practised for an out-patient, for the cure of hydrocele in a young unhealthy man. The scrotum inflamed considerably, and he was admitted under Mr. Vincent into the hospital. The suppuration was very extensive, and appeared to implicate the testicle. He however recovered his health, and went out, the testicle becoming reduced to its natm-al size, and the opening nearly healed. Amongst the number of patients in whom hydroceles are in- jected and completely removed, very few return with a relapse of the complaint, whilst a cm’e from simple evacuation of the fluid appears to be very rare indeed. It does not seem to be very accurately made out in what the change produced by the injection of hydroceles consists; whether the influence of the injection on the lining of the hydrocele is such as to arrest the future secretion of the fluid, or whether the sides of tlie cavity generally become adherent. The following cases are instances of relapses at distant periods, after injection, and tluow some light on the mode of cure :— 1. In the spring of 1842, a young man was admitted under Mr. Stanley, with hydrocele; this hydrocele had been injected four years previously, and after remaining cured for two years, again formed. 2. About the same time (1842), a man was admitted under Mr. Stanley, with hydi’ocele, which had been injected with wine in 1829, in 1835 with wine and water, and now again required injection. General adhesion undoubtedly did not take place here, and as the swellings were smooth, it seemed most probable that even partial