9 ON HERNIA. and in one case most serious bleeding, followed by peritonitis and death, occurred fi-om the division of a vessel beliind Gimbemat^s hgament. In looking over the notes of different operations for hernia, it is remarkable how much more difficulty has attended the operations on femoral than those on inguinal ruptures. From the first incision in the skin to the absolute return of the bowel, some difficulty may be met with in a femoral hernia, from the different layers of the sac, the presence of a cyst, the smaU size of the sac in a fat subject, the tightness of the stricture, or the fear of a vessel behind Gimbemaffs ligament. These are difficul- ties even by daylight, but by the hght of a candle in the middle of the night they have often caused considerable delay, and required great caution. The first serious difficulty, wliich has often attended the opera- tions for femoral hernia, has consisted in distinguishing the na- ture of a round polished surface, wliich has come into view after something like sac has been divided. Sometimes this surface is marked with little bits of fat, like those on the bowel; sometimes united closely, as if by old adhesions to the sac, hlce layers already dmded, and in some cases the round pohshed surface exposed has, when followed up to the ring, been fomid to gather itself into a neck just like the bowel. In these cases the substance exposed has shewn either a very few vessels here and there, or ap- peared as one uniform dark brown mass, neither circulai’ or longi- tudinal vessels being anywhere visible. In these cases, the doubtfid substance has turned out to be sac, and a continuance of the dissection has shewn somethhig more distinct, or allowed the fluid of the sac to escape at some one point. But again, the escape of fluid has not been always so regular, or so well marked, as to form a certain sign of the depth already arrived at in the operation, and even between the layers of the sac itself, from a cyst or from some indistinct point, sufficient fluid has at times escaped, to stand for the fluid of the sac, if tliis was opened, or only to add to the difficulty, if the sac is still unojiencd. In two cases of femoral hernia in women, containing bowel Avithout omentum, no fluid was found in the sac. The largest collec- tions have been in inguinal riqitures, and f he largest of all, per- haps, in the inguinal hernia of a young woman.