198 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEllVATIONS IN SURGERY. extending slightly, the integuments being continuous with the slough here and there by a black line. The thigh is shghtly less swelled, but much less red in extent and degree. Jan. 28, 29, 30.—The man has a general better appearance, and sleeps more at night. His skin has become cooler, tongue cleaner, and more moist, and Ms pulse less frequent. The redness of the tlugli has diminished, the slough has not extended, and has separated partially, shewdng red granulations beneath. No suppiu’ation has occuixed, except in and near the hne of separation. Feb. 10.—The man has now assumed a healthy appearance, and has recovered a healthy condition of skin and circulation. Tlie slough has separated, leaving a foul surface, with irregular healthy patches of granulations, and a few small sloughs round the sore. These spots, as weU as the sore, have however assumed a healthy appearance, and the upper front tMrd of the thigh is one gTanulating healthy sore, with the muscles and absorbent glands exposed. The chief treatment has consisted in the adminis- tration of noiu’ishment, with wine and brandy, to which quinine has been added, in two-grain doses, two or three times in the day, and laudanmn at night. The man retains an unusual fretful and uTitable manner, but otherwise does not appear ill. Feb. 14.—The man is less nervous and irritable. The sore has a healthy appearance, and is granulating. The brandy and opium axe still continued in small quantities, with nutritious diet. Feb. 28.—The sore has partially healed, and is quite healthy. The man is much less irritable, and now takes good diet, with some wine. April 13.—The sore still remains partially unhealed, but is healthy. The maii'’s health is very good. He now takes simply nourisliing food. May 24.—Gone home. He is fat, and the part is cicatrized, except in an extremely small hne. The reason of abscesses occurring in a particular spot is not always clear:— Tliree men were admitted about the same lime with ulcers or abscesses of the leg and toe, of mild and common characters. There was no clear affection of veins or absorbent glands, yet abscesses occurred in all these three cases, all about the same