77 INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. vessels or cavity of the tyrapanum could pour out either blood or fluid in auy quantity. The two following cases are well-marked instances of that form of depression of the skidl wliich occurs in children, and wliich appears to be a simple indentation of the bone, unaccompanied by any fracture. In one case there were no cerebral symptoms, whilst in the other they were well marked. A girl, eleven months old, was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, Oct. 18, 1840, having fallen from a personas arms on the back of her head tlnee-quarters of an hour previously; the child imme- diately became pale, and vomited. On admission a portion of the occipital bone on the left side was depressed about a quarter of an inch for the space of about a half-croum. The child moved its hmbs freely, sucked, and cried. On the same evening, the depression was less apparent, and on the evening of the second day was only perceptible on close examination. She left the hos- pital apparently well. Some months previously a part of the frontal bone had been depressed in a similar manner. A child, aged one year, was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, June 1842. Quite sensible; sucking when put to the breast; crying when moved; not sick, and apparently well, but labouring under a depression of the upper anterior and lateral part of the right parietal bone. Tliis was considerably depressed, and ad- mitted of two Angers Ijdng in it. The accident had happened about half an hour preriously. The mother took the cluld home, and brought it to be seen on the second day; the cliild had continued well, and the depression was much less apparent. The number of cases of fractured base of the skull admitted is very considerable, and forms a large portion of the severe cases of injury of the head. Some are brought in dead, but this is rare; and even the very w'orst cases of fractured base generally live for a few hours. One case lived for fifty-six days, and patients leave from time to time, and are never heard of again, in ivhom the only objection to fracture of the skull is, that they are apparently well. The existence of a fractured base is hardly ever marked by any one individual synq)tom; but this does sometimes liappen. A man