44 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. The two following dissections illustrate two points : in the first case the want of eversion depended on the peculiar form of the fractiu’ed surfaces; in the second the fractured portions were so close to each other, that eveji in the dead body the fracture Avas doubtful. Mary Nick, aged 66, was admitted under Mr. Stanley, having been knocked down on her right hip by two di-unken men. The limb Avas apparently shorter by measurement to the amount of one inch, unattended however by any eversion, the hmb being laid straight out and quite powerless. She gradually died. The synovial membrane Avas oidy torn at the upper and front part of the neck of the bone, the rest remaining quite entire, and extended betAveen the slightly displaced parts. The neck was broken irregularly, so that the loAver portion was Avedged slightly into the upper, and overlapped by it in front. The fractured portions were thus somewhat Avedged into each other, Avdiilst the eversion was prevented by the upper overlapping the lower portion. In consequence of the shght laceration of the membrane on the neck of the bone, the tAAm parts Avere fixed in the position, wliich their hne of fracture caused them to assume. An old AA'oman Avas brought for dissection from St. Gileses Avorkliouse, having died there of astlnna. The left leg Avas some- Avhat everted, and apparently shortened. On measuring the tAvo limbs, the difference in favour of the right was at the best but a quarter of an inch; so httle indeed was the difference between the two limbs, that tightening the string slightly in measming the right leg removed the difference. The thigh moved Avell, and with- out any crepitus on the pelvis. The pelvis was a httle crooked. The limb moved so Avell, and the difference in the length of the two limbs Avas so little, that even in the dead body it Avas not clear Avhether the neck of the bone had been broken, or Avhether the peculiar appearance of the hmb depended on some curvature of the spine, and consequent change in the relations of the pelvis and hip. On opening the left hip joint, a fracture entirely Avithin the capsule, running right through the middle of the neck, was seen. 'I'lie synovial membrane covered llie hne of fracture perfectly, and presented luudly any signs of old injury; the two portions were