MERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 259 well-marked excavated ulcer, occurring as a secondary symptom of the venereal disease. Tliis ulcer is situated near the root of the organ, nearer to the mesial line than the edges, and is often of the size of a shilling or sixpence before it attracts the particular attention of the patient. The surface of the ulcer is deeply ex- cavated, and covered with a firm yellow substance soaked with matter, whilst it is surrounded by thin sharp edges, wliich are not elevated above the surrounding surface of the tongue, but lying on the same level ai-e again surrounded by a somewhat inflamed portion of tongue, which is often more or less deprived of papillse, and thus rendered qrdte smooth. Tliis ulcer is not very painful, nor very rapid in its progress, appearing to gain the size of a shiUing ia about six weeks from its commencement. Of three patients in St. Bartholomew's Hospital labouring under tliis affection of the tongue, one had recently suffered from a scaly eruption; the other two, however, had no secondary symptom; one, indeed, was stiU labouring under primary disease. The employment of iodine in tliis affection of the tongue is attended with very little benefit: some improvement, indeed, does take place, but it is slight, and very slow. Merctuy, however, given internally in small doses, so as to produce a slight affection of the gums, exercises a most marked influence over this kind of ulcer, and converts an unhealthy sore of some weeks’ standing into a healthy one, which is sometimes healed witliin a month. All the three cases above alluded to recovered completely under the nuld internal administration of mercury. In one, hydriodate of potash was given for a fortnight, with hardly any benefit, and was then discontinued for the employment of mercuiy, by wliich so marked an influence on the ulcer was produced that the patient was discharged well in another fortnight. There is an affection of the tongue connected with the venereal disease which is very rare. One instance of it occurred in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Lawrence, from which the following account is drawn. The similarity of this affection to the excavated ulcer in some respects, and especially in its mode of cure, has led to placing it here:— A middle-aged man was admitted, labouring under a scaly eruption, having previously had primary disease; he was also sillier-