INJUUIES OE THE BOOTES OE THE UPPEE EXTREMITY. 03 rlages of any kind are employed, the ann being simply placed in a sling, will often save the patient some inconvenience. ^Vlien a flask with a moderate quantity of gunpowder is held over a flame, and a little dropped out of it, the flame often inns np the stream, and the flask blows up. The result of this acci- dent is pretty uniform; the Angers are injured more or less; but the stress of the mischief comes on the thumb, wliich is partially torn off at the carpus. These thumbs look very likely to slough off; but the wound is large, there are plenty of vessels, no matter is pent up, and these cases generally do very well. !• A boy, aged 15, was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, vuth a large wound of the right hand from the explosion of gunpowder. The skin and muscles between the thumb and forefinger were torn, whilst the joint between the trapezium and first'phalanx was laid open. Two bleeding arteries were tied. The thumb was so move- able that it could be laid backwards to a certain degi’ee on the arm. Sutures and roller were applied, uuth water dressing. The parts all united well: the carpo-phalangeal joint remained stiff, whilst the other joints below were unaffected. 2. A boy, aged 14, was admitted under Mr. Lawi’ence with a somewhat similar accident, but less in degree, and only exposing the carpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb, with laceration of the fingers. In this case very severe inflammation ensued, which ter- minated in stiffness of the thumb and slight mortification of the fingers, but the hand remained ultimately good and useful. Wlien the dislocation of the thumb is complicated with fracture of one of the bones, the diffleulty of reduction may be so great as not to be overcome. A boy was admitted in 1842, with a dislocation of the ungual phalanx of the thumb on the back of the phalanx above it; the carpal phalanx of the thumb was also broke near its carpal ex- tremity. Extension was made in the extended position of the thumb, as well as in the bent position, without reducing the dis- location ; the extension appearing to be rendered useless by the yiehhng in the situation of the fracture. Tlie thumb was left un- reduced, and appeared in a few weeks in its new position to be better than no thumb at all; and, if one may guess in such mat-