230 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. form of bubo is cliaracterized by great redness of the integuments of the groin and upper part of the thigh^ surrounding a foul ex- cavated ulcer^ wlucli is covered with a white and grey adlierent layer of matter and dead tissue, sm-rounded by a sharp edge of undermined dusky skin, and covered by a thin foetid secretion. The pain of tlus sore is extreme, and the patients are so reduced in strength by the low fever under which they suffer as to be in great danger. Within the last few years six well-marked cases of this affection have occurred in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, of so severe a nature that life seemed to be in absolute danger; one, however, only died. In none of these was the quantity of mer- cury employed large, and in some very small indeed; the only common influence under which the patients laboured was that they were all in the venereal wards, and all subject to the venereal dis- ease, other patients staying at the same time in the same wards, and under similar conditions, and with one exception unaffected. In this exceptional case the patient in the next bed to one labour- ing under this affection became similarly diseased, and in a very severe degree. Of these six patients three were prostitutes, but young and apparently healthy; one a Prenchman, one a country- man, and the other a boy bving in London. Two cases happened together, of whom one died; the others were separate, and at dif- ferent periods. During the severe part of this affection there was no indication for mercury in any way, but the greatest need of wine, and means to support the strength of the patient. W'hen the disease was rapidly spreading by sloughing, the nitric acid was apphed with suc- cess in one case, whilst in another opium lotion was applied with great benefit. The balsam of Peru and charcoal poultice were, however, most beneficial in restoring the parts to health, and perhaps, on the whole, these were the means attended with the most decided and rapid improvement. The healing of the parts, after the sores had assmned a healthy appearance, was very rapid, and did not require any particular local or general means. The form of bubo just described is terrible from its severity; 1 he next is equally alarming, but from a difierent cause. In the Icngtli of time which it lasts, and in its resistance to one means