IXJUUIES or THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 65 extension in this manner, is to place the patient upon- a stool, with liis back to the surgeon j to bend the arm over the shoulder, and thus, bringing the hand bent behind the patient^s neck, to apply extension there. Even this plan, however, fails at times. There ai’e, however, some cases of dislocation of the thumb which resist the employment of all means, and which appear to depend on the new relation which parts forming the joint assume to each other. The lateral ligaments have been supposed to ac- count for the difficulty experienced in some cases. In the two compound dislocations of the ungTial phalanx of the thumb in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, during 1843 and 1843, related below, the displacement was so considerable that the lateral ligaments were completely torn through, the bare bone being Hsible in the situation of the natmal attachment of the ligaments. Here the greatest difficulty existed in the reduction of the dislo- cated bones, wliich appeared to be torn quite free from the lateral ligaments. In the summer of 1843, a man was admitted under the care of Mr. Stanley, vlth a compound dislocation of the right thumb, the lower extremity of the middle phalanx being protruded, to a consi- derable extent through the skin, on its palmar surface, whilst the ungual phalanx was thrown backward. The lower extremity of the phalanx was quite bare, the tendon of the flexor longus not visible, and the lateral ligaments evidently torn through. The greatest diffieulty was found in reducing the bone, but at last it snapped in quite suddenly, the cavity of the joint closed, and the man gradually recovered in such a manner as to indicate the probability of the flexor longus bemg entire. Here the bent po- sition failed, and the thumb was reduced in the extended position. In tliis case the tendon of the flexor longus was shewn to exist by the subsequent progress of the case; and, as it was not on the front or lateral parts of the phalanx which were visible, it could only be situated at the back of the middle phalanx, and consequently also between the two phalanges, as it descended to its attachment to the ungual phalanx, in which situation it would powerfully assist the extensor tendon in pulling the ungual jhalanx up be- hind the middle phalanx, as well as be placed as an obstacle exactly in that line by wliich the ungual phalanx must travel to