SS CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. dislocation, or to dislocation accompanied with fracture of a slight nature. This injury occurs from, violent falls backwards or forwards, by which the trunk is either forcibly bent foi-wards, or the loins carried forwards, whilst the chest and upper extremities are carried backwards. The symptoms are on the whole mild, considering the part injured, as the loss of motion and sensation, which are occasionally present, generally rapidly subside, leaidug the sufferer able to follow liis employment vdth some deformity and considerable weakness of the back. The symptoms accompanying this injury are dependent on the displacement of one vertebra from another, by which an angle is formed in the back at the injured part, from the projec- tion of the spines of the vertebrae against the skin, with a depression between them. This depression is sometimes two inches in length, and depends on the degree of displacement of the vertebra, the spine of which may be so prominent as to make the skin sore, by its being carried backwards, and turned rather obliquely upwards. Wlien the displacement is considerable the whole body is inclined forwards above the injured part, but where the displacement is not very considerable the body only is inclined unnaturally forwards in a slight degree, and the patient maintains his equihbrium by throwing his shoulders and neck back to counterbalance the prominence of the abdomen. This prominence has been generally found to subside more or less, and even some- times, but rarely, to disappear at a distant period of time, the functions of the part being at the same time almost completely restored, and the patient able to return again to his usual occupation. It is remarkable, in looking over the recorded cases of displace- ment of the spine happening from falling forwards, and unattended with any apparent fracture or severe paralysis, that the junction of the dorsal and lumbar regions has been particularly affected. It is clear that the junction of the first lumbar vertebra with the last dorsal above, and with the second lumbar below, allows of this occurrence without any very great difficulty; but it still re- mains to be shewn how this part is placed in such a position as to render the displacement probable. This accident happens some- times from the body being bent violently forwards, so that the