18ii CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGEIIY. isthmus. This vessel is a branch of the superior thyroid arteryj and commonly anastomoses freely with the corresponding branch of the opposite side. The isthmus of the thyroid gland is not so firmly adherent to the trachea on its upper and lower edges as to prevent its being scraped either upwards or domiwards for a short distance with the handle of the knife. There is thus a portion of the trachea above the thyroid gland sufficiently large in some cases to allow of that tube being o]iened without injury to any impor- tant part, attention being had to the vessels wliich run above and below tlus small space. In some cases, in the adult, the trachea might well be opened here, and an operation performed, nearly as easy as laryngotomy, and without some of the difficidties of tracheotomy. Such a proceeding could not, however, be undertaken with certainty in all cases; the space, by its small size, miglit prevent it in some cases, whilst in others the presence of vessels, and a portion of the thyroid gland, render this operation just as difficult as tracheotomy. In one case out of every eight or ten the transverse portion of the thyi’oid gland hes across the trachea so high up that no space exists. When the space does exist, it is occasionally much reduced in size by a process of the thyroid gland extending upwards over the thyroid cartilage, accompanied by one or two veins, and an artery of moderate size. It is not very unusual to find a large branch of the superior thyroid artery running down vertically from the crico-thyroid membrane, over the cricoid cartilage, to the transverse portion of the gland, re- sembling somewhat the middle thyroid artery from below; wliilst at other times the inferior thyroid veins ascend over the transverse portion of the thyroid gland, the crico-thyroid membrane, and even over part of the thyroid cartilage, to anastomose with the laryngeal and superior thyroid veins. The follovdng were the measurements of the sjiace between the upper edge of the thyroid isthmus and the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage, in the bodies of seventeen persons, of ages vary- ing from fourteen to seventy ; —