oO CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGETIY. nlmost forwards. The ligamentum patellie assumes a direction from above downwards and outwards. An old woman was brought for dissection^ with an old un- reduced dislocation of the patella outwards. The aponeurosis of the extensor cruris formed a thick cover- ing over the front of the joints with small portions of bone in it, one particular piece beiijg situated over the condyles in the natural situation of the patella. The femur was twisted so that its front part looked inwards ui- steadof forwards; the ends of the bone were, however, on the two tuberosities of the tibia. The cartilage was partially gone, over the condyles of the femur; a smooth surface was formed for the patella, which lay right on the outer surface of the outer condyle. The front edge of the patella had much new bone added to it, whilst its articular surface was hollowed out to lit the new smooth surface of the condyle of the femur. The capsule had been torn, and was now thickened and attached to the front of the patella, enclosing its anterior half. The ligamentum patellae and external lateral ligaments were quite healthy, but mucli twisted. The internal, lateral, and crucial ligaments were quite healthy. The posterior ligaments were thickened. The knee could be bent, but only partially extended. The tibia was thin, and had broken accidentally,probably after death. How far can a man walk with a broken leg ? A man, aged 32, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, under the care of Mr. Stanley, March 8th, 1843, laboming under a transverse fracture of the right tibia, a little below the middle of the bone, accompanied with the fractme of the fibula in the lower third. This accident happened at Highgate this morning. The shaft of his cart fell, and then the horse kicked his leg. The man now got a short crutch, about the length of a v^alking-stick, and walked to the Hospital in four hours. The leg was very erooked on ad- mission, and the nature of the injury was ascertained by Mr. Staidey. He was cured in about six weeks. In the great majority of cases fracture of tlie fibula may be de- tected; occasionally, liowever, doubt still exists of the real nature of the injury, even after all means have been tried. In these