SUMMAKY OF THE EESULTS OF MERCUllY AND IODINE. 293 very doubtful, especially when the facihty with which some patients are affected by mercury is borne in mind. If such cases of sahvation from iodine are only considered as proved, when these precautions are taken, theii’ number is very materially dimi- nished ; yet there are stiU a certain number of cases in wliich the salivation appears to have depended on the employment of iodine, and not to have been distinctly connected with other causes; the most marked mstances of tliis are related by Dr. Clendinning *, Dr. Buchananf of Glasgow, Mr. Dorbes Winslow |, Mr. Wallace § of Dublin, who has observed it in a child only four years old, and Sir F. Smith II. This form of salivation appears to consist more in a simple flow of saliva, and less in an affection of the mouth, than where salivation takes place from mercmy. In the two cases recited by Sh- F. Smith the salivation is described as bemg destitute of the pecuhar foetor usually accompanying mercu- curial salivation; the mouth free from any ulceration, and the ptyalism appai’ently consisting in a simply increased secretion of the salivary glands. Although iodine produces salivation, it has been used in Ger- many as a powerful remedial means in removing mercurial saliva- tion ; the results of this plan of treatment have been accurately described by Kluge of Yienna, and Knod of Aschaffenburg ^: the iodine is said not only to benefit the ulceration of the mouth, and lessen the flow of saliva, but also to reheve rapidly the pain in the mouth. Dr. Knod at first administered this remedy in the quantity of two grains daily, and subsequently increased it. Latterly, how'ever, he employed it in larger doses, and employed four, six, or even eight grains daily from the first. Amongst the various affections resulting from the employment of hydriodate of potash. Dr. Laurie, of Glasgow, has described * Med. Gazette, vol. xv. j). 869. t Med. Gazette, vol. xviii. p. 522. f Med. Gazette, vol. xvii. p. 400. { Lancet, 1835-36, vol. ii. p. 9. II Dublin .Journal of Med. Science, No. 54, vol. xviii. p. 453. 5f Miscellen. Prakt. lulialts. Hufeland’s .Toiu’iial, v. d. Pract. Heilkunde, v. Ixxiv. part 5, p. 29. Also Med. Zeitung des Vereins fiu- Heilkunde in Preussen. 2ter Jahr. N. 5.