268 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. of the periosteum. These patients had some symptoms of syplii- litic disease, and were reheved of their complaints, and of the pain in the joint to a certain degree, by the hydriodate of potash: the condition of the arm remained, however, the same. The principal points of these two cases were the following:—1. In the winter of 1840-41, a man was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, labouring under an affection of the scalp, with a soft node of con- siderable size on the forehead, ulcers of the tonsils, and a partially impaired condition of the left upper arm. The arm was partially useless, wliilst the motion in the shoulder-joint was impaired and painful. The humerus and parts round it were swelled, the bone itself being painful; the muscles of the arm were smaller than natural. No very clear history of the ailments could be obtained from this man, and the probable cause of the weakness of the arm appeared to be the pain of the upper part of the arm, and neglected use of the limb in consequence. 2. In the summer of 1841, a woman was admitted under Mr. Lawrence labouring under an affection of one arm in a similar manner, and nearly in the same degree, ac- companied with some doubtful symptoms of syphilitic disease. No very clear history could be obtained in tliis case. The woman went out much in the same condition, her arm still remaining useless. She was readmitted in the summer of 1844, in nearly the same condition. Amongst the patients labouring under syphilitic eruptions, severe ulcers of the eyelids sometimes are met with, which, from the situation in which they occur, require to be cured as rapidly as possible. Tliis form of disease was described by M. Lrawrence in 1830, in the Treatise on the Venereal Affections of the Eye, and from cases recently occurring under Mr. Lawrence^s care the following description is taken. The eyelids are swelled so as partially to close the eye, wlulst the conjunctiva is considerably inflamed, not only on that portion which lines the lids, but also on that covering the eyeball. The surface' of the conjunctiva is also spotted at times with small yellow dots or vesicles of an opaque wliite colom’, which bursting, form small ulcers with a yellow surface, sharp edge, and smrounded by considerable inflanunation. Near the edge of the lid, at the