243 5IERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. blamed iu many cases, and the medicine thus brought into dis- repute ; but the abuse of mercury in some cases seems to be one of the causes productive of this form of disease. Mercury employed in large quantities for primary disease, without producing any efiPect either on the disease or the mouth, seems to be at times almost as detrimental to the health as a violent salivation kept up for an unusually long time. Neglect of even common care dur- ing a mercurial course exercises a most prejudicial influence, delaying the cure of the primary disease, and at the same time reducmg the patient^s health, but amongst the lower classes the emplojTnent of mercury does not prevent them exposing themselves to wet and cold of the severest kind, and it would be unfair to illustrate the bad effects of mercury by persons who have not paid even common attention to those precautions which are necessary during the most ordinary medical treat- ment. The secondary ulcerations of the skin which are most com- monly met with are these: — 1. Numerous ulcers scattered here and there over the body, face, head, and limbs. 2. Large semicircular phagedsenic ulcers, occuning cliiefly at the junc- tion of the extremities with the trunk. 3, Bound deeply ex- cavated ulcers occurring in small numbers, or even sometimes singly. 1. Patients who have laboured under primary disease in a com- mon form, are liable, at no very distant period, to the occurrence of numerous separate ulcers, situated especially about the legs, head, and chest, of a small size, a round form, and covered with a foul ycHow surface. These persons are rarely iu good health, but ’ are not very weak; they generally labour under other secondary symptoms, of which ulceration of the tonsil, and scaly eruption, are the most common. These ulcers may arise in consequence of the pustidar or tubercular eruptions, or from the occurrence of small suppurations immediately under the skin. These ulcers most commonly, however, commence by a red spot on the skin, which becomes thin, and ulcerating allows a little matter to escape, and at the same time gradually forms an ulcer. The ulcers resulting from the tubercular and pustular eruptions gene-