139 ON AMPUTATIONS. the diseased cutis by auy very defined line, but it adheres closely to the surrounding parts, may even penetrate between the mus- cles, and instead of being an extensile, delicate structure, resembles that tough tissue which unites the tunica vaginalis to the bottom of the scrotum, or that diseased cellular- texture often found lying mider a carcinomatous breast. Here are three cases:— A man applied rvitli an ulcerated stump belorv the knee. The leg had been amputated three years previously, on account of a sore on the back and front part, the stump being formed almost entirely by a long posterior flap. The pai-ts healed, but have been breaking out more or less ever since, and have completely disabled him from foUorving his regular employment. The stump was now removed by Mr. Stanley above the knee, and examined. Tire tibia and fibula were not diminished in size, even at the lower extremity; they were both somewhat thickened, and the interosseous hgament slightly ossified. The stump was very short, the tibia being cut just below the attachment of the ligamentum patellae; the tibialis anticus and extensor digitorum formed no part of the stump; the entire edge of the tibia adhered to the integuments, which were ulcerated in this hne: the ulcer was only superficial, and did not go tlrrough the skin, being fixed on a fii-m tissue which extended be- tween the muscles. The gastrocnemii were doubled over, and formed a thick layer, covering the back of the leg and stump up to this adherent hire. Tlris layer v-as two and a quarter inches thick over the ends of the bone, was rrot cellirlar, and consisted of yellow greasy muscle, the only red muscle being that which had its two attachments left, the pophteus. The posterior tibia! nerve was well covered by nruscle, slightly thickened, adhererrt to the cut surface of tibia, aird carried forwards with the muscle. The end of the femur, tire patella, and especially the tibia and fibula, were light and rather sporrgy. There was no ossification of the interosseous ligament, rro bony spicula existed, but a ridge of spongy bone was found under the ulcerated line of uirion. The fibula and tibia had not remained parallel to each other, but the former had separated from the latter at its lower part. Over the tibia the bone was thiidy covered, and a dense cicatrix of diseased tissue had formed, which healed with difficulty, and vdcerated on the slightest injury. The same effect occurred in the following case, though from a differenf cause: -