INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. 81 days, having been thrown from a cart, the horse of which was running away. Dissection shewed a fracture of the base, through, the temporal bones, with the effusion of two ounces of blood. In the left optic thalamus was an old apoplectic cyst, of the capa- city of six drachms, with soft yellow sides. In the rigKt optic thalamus was a drachm of recently effused coagulated blood, not communicating with the ventricle. The three following cases of delirium apparently produced by bleeding after injuries of the head, occurred at St. Bartholomews Hospital, and formed part of a clinical lecture on the treatment of injuries of the head, delivered by Mr. Lawrence, May 17, 1844. 1. A man, aged 32, was thrown on his head, and picked up in- sensible ; he was immediately bled. Soon afterwards he became extremely delirious, and was brought to the hospital, where he was so violent as to require being fastened dow, and in one of his struggles the tape slipped from his arm, causing liim to lose more blood. Pulse soft: 76. Some httle bleeding from one ear. Half a grain of Acet. Morphise was administered, which gave him "some sleep. Half a grain of Acet. Morphise was again given after , a few hours. He slept part of the night, and next day was well. He went out in a few days. 2. A man, aged 35, fell from an omnibus, and was immediately bled to 16 ounces. He became delirious, with a soft pulse at 120. Half a grain of Acet. Morphise was administered, and repeated again in four hours. This made him quite quiet, and in a few days he was tolerably well. 3. A bricklayer, 36 years of age, fell off a scaffold, and was found insensible. He was bled, and soon after cupped. Next day he was rambh'ng and violent. For four or five weeks tliis man lay in bed, occasionally so violent sis to require restraint, rambling and talking in an incoherent manner. At last he came gradually round in about six weeks from the injury; appearing, however, to be somewhat dull in his faculties, and slow in his speech. Wine, opium, low diet, good diet, mercury, and blisters, were all tried, but without any very marked benefit; the man appearing to get well of himself. The upper lumbar and last dorsal vertebrae are liable to simple a