380 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SUllGERY. attended often with less risk than where this effect does not occur. The greater number of the recorded cases of persons in whom fatal effects of mercury on the nervous system have occurred^ have been quite free from affection of the gums and sahvary glands. Extreme salivation, however, is a most inconvenient ailment, and reduces the strongest person in a rapid manner. Its effects also do not seem to be always confined to the mere reduction of health, but to contribute their share sometimes in rendering the secondary symptoms more severe. Amopgst tlie patients labouring under the deep phagedEenic ulcer of the skm, the primary disease, in addition to having been itself severe, will often be stated to have been accompanied with profuse salivation from exposure to wet and cold after the employment of large quantities of mercury. There -is no guide by which a patients susceptibihty to mercury can be known, unless it has been previously employed. Wliere salivation occurs rapidly and unexpectedly, the most decided benefit is often produced, though at a severe cost, the ulcers of the tlu’oat being seen to assume a healthy appearance, whilst the membrane of the gums becomes suddenly inflamed and ulcerated. Even when salivation occurs from the apphcation of a small quantity of black ivasli, the most marked improvement has been seen to occur in the sore to which the wash has been appHed. Susceptibility to the influence of mercury is met with much more commonly than resistance to its effect. Those cases, how- ever, in wliich mercury does not produce any decided action on the mouth are not very uncommon, and unfortunately occur at times in the very cases where the influence of mercury is desired. Tins disposition to resist the action of mercury, though certainly possessed by some persons, and shewn on each occasion when this medicine is employed, depends occasionally on some mere accidental circumstance. Thus some degree of fever may exist, or diarrhoea may, as it were, carry off the medicine, and prevent its due action. Eor each case of resistance to mercury many cases of unexpected salivation occur, and the remedies for the latter are much more frequently a subject of inqnh’y than the causes of the former peculiarity. Patients labouring under old organic disease of the lungs or kidneys, or those who have been weakened by floodings or pro-