18 ON HERNIA. has been ever applied. In no case, even amongst those operated on twice, has there been any thing like a closm’e of the ring by the omentum, but at times a hernial sac, containing adliereht omentum, has been met with, placed so as to allow a bit of bowel to slip into the ring at any moment, this being the part V'^here it was least adherent. In the cases mentioned below, the patients died solely from long bands of omentum pressing the bowels against the back of the abdomen, the omentum being adherent to the sac. There is, however, another way in wliich a cord of omentum may be formed without any adliesion. The omentum, in some cases, has simply adhered to the walls of the sac, and in these cases, excepting this adliesion, no great difference has been found between the portion of omentum in the abdominal cavity and that in the sac. In other cases, however, the portion of omentum in the sac itself has contracted no ad- hesions, but gone on increasing in bulk, the portion in the ring- undergoing no change. In tliis way the great omentum is di-awn as tightly over the bowel as if the omentum was firmly adlierent, for the enlarged lump of omentum cannot pass the ring in any way. This large pad of omentum may be free and simply en- larged, but at other times it is tliickened and adherent, and when so thickened may cause difficulty. In a man with an inguinal hernia, operated on by Mr. Stanley, large intestine and omentum were found. The protruded portion of omentum was about six inches long. In four or five places the omentum was hardened in patches, about the size of a testicle, wliich by their round form increased the resemblance to that organ. The cellular part of the omentum round these masses pre- sented a series of irregular cavities resembling bm-sse, but smaller in size, less regular in form, and traversed by cellular bands. The masses of hard fat, by their round form and free motion in the cel- lular interspaces, so accurately resembled testicles moving in their serous sacs, that one of these masses was supposed at first to be a testicle. In another case of hernia, also under Mr. Stanley, the mass of omentum appeared to consist of an enlarged ap- pendix epiploica, which had enlarged in the sac, but not at the ring.