AFFECTIOXS OF THE UlllNAKY AND GENITAL OKGANS, Ifi? gland felt to be much enlarged. Tliis man died two months after- wards. The prostate was found to be enlarged laterally, so, as to form towards the rectum an even broad mass, as large as a small apple, whilst a conical mass connected with the two lobes pro- jected into the bladder. Again, a prostate may appear to be enlarged, and that enlarge- ment may depend but partially on enlargement of the gland itself:— A middle-aged man was admitted under Mr. Stanley, with urinary fistula, and stricture of the urethra. On examination by the rectum, a swelhng was found, which appeared to be enlargement of the prostate gland. This man died. On examining the prostate, an abscess of moderate size was found in the tissue round it, and the gland was only slightly enlarged. In addition to this, the bladder presented a very remarkable appearance. The bladder was firm and somewhat thickened. On its back part a cavity existed, capable of holding one and a half ounce; this cavity was formed in front by the muscular fibres of the bladder, and behind, by peritoneum; the front of this cavity communicating freely with the cavity of the bladder, between the muscular fibres, fonning a trellis-work in front. This cavity was lined by a shreddy membrane, like an abscess, forming a remarkable contrast to the smooth membrane of the bladder, the musculai- fibres separating this cavity from the bladder being lined by the smooth mucous membrane in front, and by tliis foul membrane behind. It was evident that tliis abscess, on or in the walls of the bladder, had caused the swelling supposed to be an enlargement of the prostate. The urethra sometimes gives way after fever in a very remark- able manner. The following cases occurred at distant periods, but presented these peculiar features in common :— Two men had been ill of low fever, in 1887 and 1844 respec- tively, but were recovering, when they were seized with swelling of the private parts, and evident effusion of urine. They both died. In one of these cases the urethra was examined, but no stricture was visible; there was an opening in the membranous part of the urethra, with ragged dark margins, which might possibly have included it. Again, in the autumn of 1846, a man was still remaining con-