At'FKCTlONS AND INJUllIKS OF ARTKllIES AND VEINS. 145 The tough texture and elastic property of tire arteries enables them to resist very severe shocks, so that they generally escape in iiijimes and fractures, unless pierced by the bone or lacerated with a lai'ge quantity of soft parts. The following case presents an instance of a severe injury to the Hmb of a boy, un- attended by fracture, but accompanied by such marked symptoms of sudden failure, and such peculiar local changes in the limb, that there seemed to be little doubt that the femoral or popliteal artery had given way :— A boy, five year’s old, was admitted under Mr. Skey, for an in- jury of his thigh. The pale anxious look, and utter prostration of strength, at once indicated that some most serious injury beyond fracture had occurred. The following was the condition of the hmb. The right thigh is considerably swelled, and of a dark pm’ple colour at its lower paid; this begins just above the knee, (not in- cluding tliis joint) and extends about two inches up the hmb. The hmb below this swelhng is much colder than the opposite one, and of a paler colour. The pulsation of the popliteal, an- terior and posterior tibia! arteries, is imperceptible in this hmb, but quite perceptible in the left hmb; the pulsation in the right femoral artery stopping in the middle of the tlhgh. No bone is broken. About twelve or fifteen minutes since the boy was riding behind an omnibus in Gracechurch Street, the wheel came off, and the omnibus upset; the boy was tlirown forward, and fell on his side, the body of the omnibus falling on the lower part of his thigh. He was pulled out and carried to a medical man imme- diately. The boy was even then very faint, and the sw^ehmg had already begun to form. • In a few minutes after admission the boy became so feeble and faint that he was obhged to take wine. In two hours the boy became extremely faint; the swelling now extended down to the knee, and upper part of the leg, especially into the popliteal space; it also extended higher up the thigh. In five hoiirs, the whole tliigh, from the upper third to the knee, and the leg from the knee to the ankle, became much swelled, and below the knee the limb was quite cold. The boy was now so faint as to be in immediate danger, and sometimes appeared to be already dying.