136 CLINICAL COl.LECTlONS AND OBSEllVATlONS IN SUllGERY, health very much reduced, yet death from failui’e, after tlie removal of a limb for disease, is very rare indeed. There do not seem to be any appearances about a patient, or particulai’ circumstances of health, which can suggest the greater or less probability of phlebitis occurring after amputation. The foUovdng circumstance was, however, noted as bearing on this point. In two cases of diseased joints, very considerable suppuration had occm'red in the parts around the joints, in addition to tlie disease in its cavity; and in one of these cases the medulla, at the time of operation, was observed to be mmsually vascular. In both these cases plilebitis occurred; and it might be a matter of consideration, how far the tendency to suppuration before operation, and to inflammation of the veins afterwards, might be dependent on one and the same cause. Amongst the cases of diseased joints, one'patient is mentioned in whom cerebral symptoms arose suddenly, to the complete relief, for the time, of the diseased joint*. The following case presents many similar features, and though actively treated, and that at an early period, terminated fatally : — A boy, aged 15 years, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, on Aug. 31, 1842, labouring under disease of the left ankle, accom- panied with abscesses, and the general signs of ulceration of the joints. He was feeble, but not failing. Auscultation detected no affection of the chest, and he seemed to be only ill from the disease in the ankle, which appeai-edto have commencedfive months previously, after injury, and to have progressed regularly since. The leg was removed on November 17. The ends of the tibia and fibula, as well as the upper surface of the astragalus, had lost their cartilage. The synovial membrane was soft and pulpy, and ulceration had removed half the diameter of the fibula at a point a little above the epiphysis. Except some secondary haemorrhage, the boy went on well for three or four weeks, and the stump granulated with a very copious discharge of thick healthy pus. It was found, however, necessary to keep him on a milk diet, for even broth ])roduced some fever. Page 117.