226 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIOJSS IN SUB.GERY. surroiiiidmg parts gradually takes place at the same time. In these two classes mercury exercises a marked, but very different in- fluence, and that difference appears to depend in a very considerable degree on the amount of accompanying inflammation, although the existence and nature of the glandular affection are sometimes connected very materially with the character of the primary ulcer. Thus the most severe primary sores, as the phagedsenic ulcerating sore, and even sloughing phagedsena, are very much less frequently accompanied with bubo than the small ulcers of the glans and frseuum prieputii, whilst the circular sore, with well-defined indu- ■ration, seems to occupy a middle place between the others, and to be accompanied only occasionally with a glandular affection of any importance. Where acute inflammation of the glands of the groin, with much swelling and redness of the skin, and accompanied ndth any considerable degree of fever, occurs in connexion vuth a small primary ulcer of a simple kind, the employment of mercury by frictions near.the part appears to be rarely attended with any benefit. The part in general suppurates, and on bm-sting exliibits a condition of parts which appears to depend in many cases much mere on the affection of the cellular tissue than of the glands, the latter often appearing simply swelled and exposed in the middle of the abscess. So rarely is the employment of mercurial frictions in the early stage of these cases attended with benefit, whilst so frequently do common means give rehef and lessen the extent of the mischief in the groin, that the employment of the latter is to be cliiefly relied on. It is not uncommon to find the glands of the groin with their adjacent cellular tissue converted into a painful hard mass, covered by tense red skin, and marked by a fold of the skin which crosses it in the line of the crural arch. Tills form of bubo frequently remains hard and paiiifid for ten days or a fortnight, without undergoing any change, except a slight softening; tliis, however, not being accompanied by any suppuration, but having only a small quantity of fluid effused here aiul there through it. Although this form of bubo is more suited to the employment of mercury than that just mentioned, yet the cflect of simple means is on the whole more marked, the swelling often subsiding under their use, but still jiassing ou to sujipuration occasionally in spite of all means.