15U CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEIIVATTONS IN SUKQEllY. oblique^ and included about one-third of the circumference of the artery. The pulse had not varied much up to the period of the operation. Two ligatures were placed above, and one below the wound. In ten days aU the tliree ligatures had separated. May 15.—There is considerably less powder in the pulsation of the left radial artery as compared with the right; the left forearm is weaker, and the skin is less sensible than the right. The wound is nearly healed; the brachial artery pulsates down to the seat of the ligature. The two following cases are instances of wounds of the arteries of the arm followed by effusion of blood : these patients presented themselves several weeks after the injury. In the first case the wounded vessel was cut down upon, wliilst in the second the vessel was tied above the sweUing; the second case appearing to be a simple aneurism, but the first to be effusion of blood without the formation of a distinct sac ;— 1. A man, about thirty, was admitted with a tense swelling of the middle of the forearm, situated over the ulnar artery, pulsating, apparently circumscribed, and having a distinct continuous mur- mui- increased with the hearths pulsation. The man stated that he had pierced liis arm with a knife about three weeks previous, and that the wound bled freely, but stopped, and soon healed. Ou returning, however, to liis work, the sweUing gradually formed, and had increased up to the present time. AVlien viewed externally the swelling appeared to be veiy cir- cmnscribed, and to resemble in most of its characters a true aneurism; so close, indeed, was this resemblance, that the propriety of tying the artery on the cardiac side of the swelling was sug- gested. Mr. Lawrence, however, considered that the circum- sciibed apjiearance was not dependent on any sac, but that the swelling should be rather regarded as a deep-seated effusion of blood, and that the only proper mode of treatment was to lay the swelling freely open, and tie the artery above and below the wound. This opinion was acted on. The fascia and skin were divided, a lump of coagulum fell out, and the artery jetted out of the opening. A small cut, not completely dividing the vessel.