CIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 105 till 1 in the morning; liis visions of torture then again returned, he broke his straps, and Moke the patients in the different wards with liis screams. He took some laudanum, but not in any large quantity, and part was rejected by vomiting. At 5 in the morning he fancied liimself drowning, and in the midst of his slirieks was seized with shaking in every inch of his body, and died within eight hours of the time when he had been sound asleep, apparently doing well. There was some little old opacity in the araclmoid, but except liis recent injury, he had the organs of a sound and healthy man. Cases have been described in which patients apparently re- covering from delirium tremens have suddenly failed and died. These cases make a great impression on the friends, and are often sources of anxiety to others : they may be, and probably are, un- avoidable in many cases, yet still when large quantities of opium and spirits have been given, sudden death, with cerebral symptoms, is a most unpleasant occurrence. 1. A stout working man was admitted under the care of Mr. Law- rence, with a broken leg : delirium tremens of the most violent nature ensued in the evening of the second day : during this night, the tliird day, and the following night, he took very large quantities of laudanum. He closed his mouth so firmly that it was given as an enema; this producing no effect, a pipe was in- troduced through the nose into the stomach. On the morning of the 4th day liis ravings had ceased; he was sensible, and thankful for what had been done. He now took some solid food, meat with potatoes, wliich he seemed to relish. Soon afterwards he had a fit, and died rapidly. No examination was allowed. The following case resembles tliis in some particulars, and an examination was allowed ;— 2. A woman, about 48, was admitted under Mr. Stanley, with a cut head, wliich was followed by delirium tremens. She took large quantities of gin and porter, with small quantities of laudanum. On the 9th day, whilst rambling and moving about, she became suddenly motionless, and aiiparently dead. Lrom this condition she however soon recovered, again to rave and move about. She again became suddenly quiet, and died rapidly.