152 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. tlie hcTemorrliage. The distance between the wound and the part of the artery not separated from the surrounding tissues was not so great as to render the chance of haemorrhage probable, if the artery was tied at the juncture of the separated and adherent por- tions, whilst the condition of the artery close to the wound was such as to render it unsuitable for the application of the ligature. The haemorrhage evidently depended on a communication of a more free nature than usual existing between the peroneal and the pos- terior tibial arteries, in the situation of the partially separated por- tion, and thus between the w^ound and the upper ligature. Ecchymoses do not often happen spontaneously; they may, how- ever, sometimes:— A working man was admitted, under Mr. Vincent, who stated that as he was walking along, quite well, about a week before admis- sion, he felt a shght pain on the inner side of Ins left elbow, arising without any cause or blowL On going home, he found the left arm ecchymosed very considerably on the back of the elbow, and along the back of the fore-arm. Under the emplojonent of rest, this was considerably removed, and in about a month the sweUiiig had subsided. There is often great difficulty in getting rid of effused blood, but still wdien it is decidedly removed it seldom recurs. In the following case the ecchymosis recurred in so marked a manner, aud at one spot, that it appeared to depend on the rupture of a con- siderable vein:— A man, aged 35, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, labouring under a swelling midw^ay between the elbow and shoulder-joints, immediately over the vessels. The sw^elling w^as nearly round, move- able on its base from side to side, but not from above dowmw^ards, soft and elastic, without distinct fluctuation, and in capacity equal to about half a pint. The skin was quite moveable upon it, and free from ecchymosis, but a distinct cord-hke hardness was perceptible below, and especially above the tumor, in the course of the vessels, but superficial to them. Ten days since, whilst at work, he briused his arm severely against a joist of wood, rubbing off flie skin at the same time. This