INJURIES OP THE BONES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 47 or less. When tlienpper portion becomes situated in front of the lower, it impedes the motion of the knee joint; the patella being sometimes drawn up in extension of the limb, close to the projecting point of bone. The best, mode of treating fractures of the femur near the knee joint, as well as most fractures mto the knee jomt, is to extend the limb quite straight; by wliich the even surface of the sound bone presses the irregular articular sm’faces of the broken bone firmly and evenly; the limb being at the same time placed in the most suitable position in case anclijdosis should occui-. Although the straight position is desirable for these reasons, yet this form of fracture sometimes does veiy weU on the double- incbned fi’actui’e-bed of Mr. Earle, by wliich the occasional ten- dency of the knee to fall backwards is very effectually prevented by the angle of the bed. Tliis kind of fracture unites slowly, and in general requires a confinement of sis. to seven weeks : the tendency to displacement of the lower portion backwards sometimes does not exist, and can in general be easily remedied. The two condyles are apt to separate somewhat from each other, and thus to allow the patella to fall somewhat backwards, and render the front part of the knee rather flat; the external condyle is also liable to become situated on a line rather anterior to the internal, and though capable of being pushed backwards often remains very sbghtly prominent. These cases generally do well, and the recovery is complete; even if the condyle is prominent, or somewhat separated, the functions of the limb are not generally impaired in any material degree. The patella may be torn away from the tibia by muscular violence; and this accident is extremely hard to cure. John Chesterfield, set. 59, admitted under Mr. Stanley, Sept. 21, 1842. A stout muscular man, labouring under an injuiy to one knee. The patella is drawn up in front of the femur as much as tw'o inches, or even more, above its natural situation ; the bone entire and smooth, without apparent separation of any part; from the drawing up of the patella the knee joint is only covered by skin, and appears quite bare. No piece of bone appears to be remaining attached to the ligamcntum patellie, so as to allows of this being considered as a fracture in any w'ay. The man states that he was wheeling a baiTow up an inclined plank, wlien the wheel moved somehow in the wrong direction,