137 ON AMPUTATIONS. About the middle of December^ when the stump was cicatrizingj he began to complain of pain in his head, and fever. An issue was made in the arm, and he was ordered to take small quantities of mercury, by which his mouth was gradually made sore. Leeches were appbed from time to time to the head, and other means were used, in reference to liis general fever. These means had little effect: as the stump cicatrized the cerebral symptoms increased; the pain in the head became so severe as to make liim call out; his memory failed, and deliriiun occurred occasionally at night. He became gradually insensible, and died December 30 th. The dui-a mater appeared distended. The arachnoid covering the infeiior part of the cerebellum, pons, and medulla oblongata, was thickened and opaque, Avhilst its veins were large and full. There was a considerable quantity of fluid at the base, and some turbid fluid in the pia mater. The brain was firm, and each ventricle contained about an ounce of fluid. Works on surgical anatomy describe many modes of cutting out portions of the foot, but it is remarkable how rarely these opera- tions seem to be required. In the cases of disease of the bones of the foot, and injuries where partial amputations might perhaps be performed, there is often just doubt enough, as to the sound con- dition of the tarsus, to prevent that certainty of success which the patient wishes to be assured of before any operation, and which the surgeon always desires, but most especially in any operation of an unusual character. Amputation between the tarsal bones I haveneverseen performed. There is a east in the Museum of St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, made from a man, aged 22, in whom the tarsus had been acciden- tally cut off about eleven years previously by accident, apparently just in front of the os naviculare. The tendons of the tibialis anticus, and peronteus tertius, appeared to be inserted into the cicatrix, and the foot was pretty level, the point not being de- pressed. He could walk tolerably well, but the muscles of the leg were much wasted. Die removal of the great foe and its metatarsal bone is not a slight operation, even on a dead body; and when I he ])arts are thickened and inllamed this ojieration is very long, and attended with great ]iain : tlic pai ls to be divided are very deeji, require very