13.‘3 ON AMPUTATIONS. or otlier cause, it is necessary to look for a vessel, the discovery of the situation of the vein may be no guide to the artery A limb was removed above the knee for disease of the tibia; some bleeding occurred afterwards; but the man died on the eighteenth day, chiefly from suppuration of the stump and chronic disease of tlie Iniigs. An abscess extended from the stump up the thigh; the end of the vein lay close to the face of the stump, but the end of the artery was retracted an inch and a half higher up even than the end of the bone. It is remarkable to how great a degree the soft parts may be cbawn up from the stump, and yet gradually descend, so as ulti- mately to make a good stump :—A man’s leg w^as removed by Mr. Stanley above the knee by the double flap operation. During the ten days after the operation the man had fever and considerable swelling o' the thigh; the stump was exposed, and the bone pro- minent, whilst the skin was retracted and apparently fixed by solid oedema. The case seemed to promise very ill indeed, but as the inflammation lessened the skin gradually drew itself clomi over the face of the stump, and ultimately the parts healed, the bone being adherent to the centre of the stump in the hollow between the flaps, whilst the surrounding parts were becoming more full, and gradually forming a softer cusliion over the part. In looking at the ends of the femur wliich have been removed from the dead bodies of persons many years after amputation, bony spicula of a remarkable character are sometimes found. The shaft of the bone in these cases has evidently borne weight well, for it is full and round right down to its termination, whilst one spiculum of firm bone may be seen growing from the linea aspera, or one from each side of the outer and back part of the bone. These spicula are regular processes, and quite distinct from that irregular deposit wliich comes on some stumps, and extends at times to the interosseous ligament. The following may, perhaps, be the just exj)lanation of their growth. When the femur is divided high up by amputation, the psoas-ihacus musele carries the lower end of the upper portion of the bone forwards and upwards, causing an oblique position of the bone, which is most unfavourable for walking. Thi.s action of the psoas-iliacus can only be overcome