12 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. parts to exainine them, the intestine gave way at a dark spot in the hne of stricture. This hole was carefully tied with a ligature, and the bowel returned. No bad symptoms in reference to the bowels or peritoneum occurred, and the man was discharged v^ell in a month, with the parts all healed. Faecal odour of the fluid in the sac is described as having been met with in cases where no perforation existed in the bowel, the closeness of the stricture and complete arrest of the circulation allowing the odour to permeate the coats of the bowel. It is well deserving of notice, that distinct perforation of the bowel may take place, and very httle odour be perceptible in the fluid of the sac. In two cases of jierforation of the bowel at the line of stric- ture, the fluid in one case was of a dark reddish colour, and in the other of a somewhat brownish tinge, but destitute of any well marked fsecal odour. The presence or absence of faecal odom- in the fluid has not been by any means a certain sign of the bad or good condition of the bowel, its real state being oifly known by an accurate examination of the bowel itself. On the return of the bowel into the abdomen a tlnn stream of fluid is not unfrequently seen flovdng from the ring, which may indicate one or two important things. If there is the least shade of brown about it, or the least faecal odour, it may be a sign that the bowel has given way at the line of strictiue, and that chiefly on the side nearest the abdomen; the bowel, perhaps, not giving way till it was moved from the stricture, and then being so thin as to give way from that slight movement. The fluid may be clear, but most copious in quantity. In such a case peritonitis is at times severe, but of an active kind, and such as often yields to treatment. The treatment of the bowel and omentmn contained in the sac has rarely been a matter of doubt. A roughness on the bowel in one case, and a layer of lymph in another, both of which had severe peritonitis, were marked at the time of operation; in nearly all the bowel was more or less congested, and in one a leathery patch was noted on the convex part of the protruded bowel. The chief difl'ercnce of treatment in the various cases has consisted in the removal or return of the omentum. The omentum lias been found adherent, even when no truss