ON FUACTUKES OF THE MBS, LOWEE JAAV, AND PELVIS. 29 case air appeared to have reiriained in the pleura .without produc- ing an}f serious consequences.* A boy, aged eighteen years, was in St. BartholomeVs Hospital with a fungoid tumour of the pelvis; he went home and died there. The body was examined by Mr. Paget and myself. After examining the fungoid tumour, the chest was opened. In the upper part of the left lung some hard yellow tubercles were found. The right pleura was full of air; the right lung was completely collapsed, and sunk back quite free to the back of the chest. There was one long fine filamentous adliesion extending from the inside of the plem’a about the fifth rib to the lung, almost as fine as a coarse tlu’ead. The right plem’a was quite dry, free from foetor, smooth and sliining, and did not contain any fluid of any kind. Under the pleurae of both lungs some soft me- dullary matter was deposited, in one or two spots marked with blood. In one of these, on the lower and outer part of the right lung, the deposit being not much larger than a pin’s head, a minute apertm’e existed, forming a communication between the right pleura and the air cells of the right lung. This aperture was so small as to be hardly perceptible, but became plain on inflating the lung in water. The right lung itself was considerably, but not very closely, compressed, recovering, however, to a certain degree when blown into. The left lung was quite permeable, and united pretty closely to the thoracic walls by adliesions. The right side of the heart was flattened, so as accurately to corre- spond to the collapsed lung. The liver was also, to a certain degree, pushed down by the depression of tlie diapliragm on the right side. Looking at all these changes—the comparative impermeability of the lung, the flattening of the heart, the depression of the dia- phragm, and the length of the single adhesion—it appeared proba- ble that the lung had given way some time before death, but it was certain that the lung was in its present contracted state when the heart became rigid, and took a cast of it. * The absence of inflammation of the pleuiu of a dog, after free exposiu'e to the air by an external wound, is described by Mr. Hunter.—Hunter’s Works, by Palmer, vol. iij. p. 352.