INJURIES OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 67 allowed to pass behind the phalaiux liigher up, and consequently more directly through the middle of the joint. When by lateral twisting the tendon could be brought round the extremity of the bone to its natural situation, the part was immediately reduced; so difficult, however, was reduction, that it was only by three persons trying with all their force, one after another, that the thumb of a dead man, artificially dislocated, cordd be reduced. The experiment on the dead body thus appeared to present a difficulty similar to that which existed in the living patient, when the parts were artificially placed in the same position as that wliich appeared to be the case in the two dislocations. In short, the displacement of the tendon of the fiexor longus poUicis, and its new position between the two articular surfaces of the dislocated bones, seemed to give rise to a difficulty, which might be more or less great in proportion as the tendon had slipped more or less completely behind the bone, and thus become situated more or less directly in the joint. For these reasons extension was applied again, in the last case, on the third day after the accident, but ineffectually. Under these circumstances, the ungual phalanx was removed: the tendon of the flexor longus was apparently entire, but its exact relations could not be seen during the amputation. The stump healed well; there was some suppuration up the course of the flexor longus, which was opened in the lower part of the fore-arm, which somewhat prolonged the cure. In the following case of injury of the elbow, the olecranon appeared to have been cut off, and the joint was exposed. The case, however, did quite well. Caroline Wallace, set. 8, June 8, 1843: admitted under Mr. Stanley. This injury happened from a fall upon the back part of the elbow against the edge of a broken plate, winch made a trans- verse wound extending across the back of the joint, completely dividing the olecranon in the ordinary situation of its fracture. The arm was strictly confined upon a splint, ivifcli the elbow slightly bent. Inflammation of the elbow ensued, but this very soon subsided. The case then proceeded uninterruptedly to its cure. The external wound healed completely. The separated piece of the olecranon reunited. The motions of the joint were.