)i56 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. the lai’ynx may have lasted, as well as the degree to which it may proceed without destroying life. The degree of immediate risk to life appears to be proportionate to the oedematous sweUing of the part, whilst the degree of ulceration, though attended in this form of laryngitis with less immediate danger, is a form of disease terminating not uncommonly in death, and winch occurs chiefly in that stage of syphihs wliich so closely resembles the hectic fever of tubercular phtliisis. Great advantage may be derived in tliis disease from the employment of mercury and iodine. The constitutional employ- ment of mercury does not appear to be attended with decided advantage, or with that degree of benefit wliich occasionally attends its local application. In the cases wliich recover, the chief signs of the affection of the larjnix are hoarseness, pain in the tliroat, and evident disease in the neighbouring parts. Under the employment of mild mercurial fumigation the portion of the ulcer wliich is visible in the pharynx may be seen to heal, whilst the distressing pain and hoarseness diminish, until the patient by this and other means is restored to comparative health. The employment of fumigation requires great caution, as sahvation is in itself an evil in these cases from the sweUing and inflammation of the parts about the mouth. The great gain, however, which we now possess in the hydriodate of potash, as compared with a few years since, is exemplified in these cases. The administration of this medicine in moderate doses, with a nutritious diet, is often attended with the most marked benefit, and may be conjomed with the application of mercurial fumigation to the part. The improve- ment in swallowing, the conversion of a foul ulcer into a healthy surface, the relief to the acliing pains, which so frequently accom- pany this form of disease, are sooner, more completely, and more certainly produced by the employment of iodine than by any other means. The disease is generally accompanied with the appearance and habit of body pecuhar to phagedamic disease; it also occurs not unfrequently where very large quantities of mercury have been used without discretion, This condition of body resulting from a bad disease and a questionable mode of treatment, is especially benefited by the employment of hydriodate of potash, and by its use the various local symptoms are remarkably relieved. It is