96 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. in parts directly connected with the organs to be operated on, wliich attracts attention, there are two particular conditions, wliich in hospital patients are often the cause of death, after injuries and operations even of the slightest kind; and an atten- tion to these conditions is often the means of understanding the peculiarity of an apparently difficult case. These two conditions are, intemperance with its results, and disease in one or two in- ternal organs, slight in degree, but often of considerable extent. There are certain organs which can be readily tested as to their soundness, but many can not, and the acquisition of this knowledge must be partly gained from the patient^s own account. It requires but a short attendance in the dead-house to learn that men who consider themselves as healthy may be seriously and extensively diseased, and even if the symptoms of disease had existed, but only of such a kind as were cognizable to the patient, they may not have been noticed by him. The sjunptoms of disease are not always plain to a workingman, in the way that they are to an educated person, and even pain, that symptom so cognizable to most, may be hardly noticed as such, by a man whose mental faculties, by his own habits, and an absence of all education, have been utterly neglected and seldom used. The history of the same aihnent may be spontaneously given ^by one man, whilst from another it has to be gained point by point, and sometimes even then only imperfectly. This frequent existence of organic disease in several organs of the body renders a large mass of disease very fatal, wliich appears at first sight curable, as well as destroys a certain number of patients after operations. Amongst those cases terminating fatally may be especially included erysipelas of the head from wounds, amputations in elderly persons, and compound fractures. The fatality of cases in a large hospital may be very liigh, even in diseases which are apparently imld, and in operations wluch are generally successful. Where sickness is the condition of admission, all classes of disease will come; neither the existence of any quan- tity of disease, the refusal of every body else to treat them, nor their utter incurability, will keep them away. Tew think that they are utterly beyond all the powers of the medical art; when they cease to apply for relief they still return to die, and a disease which