26 CLTNICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. auscultatory sigus and tlie general characters of thoracic disease, and require the same treatment, however much the ultimate chance of recovery may be compromised by the local injury. The rehef by bleeding to the suffocative sensation caused by fracture of the ribs, has rarely appeared to be very decided, and certainly not so marked as to induce one to perform bleeding to relieve it. In short, venesection performed on the occurrence of fracture of the ribs does not appear to be attended with either immediate or ultimate benefit in a sufficiently marked degree to justify its general employment, even if this slight operation was free from risk; and as fatal plilebitis has sometimes occurred from this very practice, its performance, except for urgent reasons, may reasonably be omitted. A man was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, into St. Bartholo- meVs Hospital, then labouring under phlebitis of the veins of the right arm, and broken ribs. Auscultation detected the crepitus of the ribs, but shewed the breathing to be healthy. This man gave the following history. Three days previously he fell out of a cab, and broke his ribs, for which he was bled from the right vena mediana cephalica. On the follomng day liis arm was stiff. On the third day he came first to the hos])ital. He died in a week. The vena cephalica and basihca of the right arm were thickened with lymph and pus, as well as the vena saphena of one leg. The right shoulder and left wrist joints were full of pus, with some loss of cartilage on the head of the right humerus. The lungs were quite healthy; the right pleura was adherent round two broken ribs with a little opaque serum. In dissecting the bodies of old women, and especially those of very old persons, who have become bent up, so that the chin and pelvis are approximated, the ribs are often found quite tliin and brittle, so that they break readily even in cleaning, and will not bear maceration. Those ribs would, probably, break readily dur- ing life, but the persons so aflecfed are generally bed-ridden, or so infirm as to move about very little, and consequently aie not much exposed to accident. One of these wasted old women vas admitted one day with a dislocated humerus, which was being reduced with the heel in the axilla, by the house-surgeon, when a