180 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEIIVATTONS IN SUIIGEIIY. of healing appears to depend to a certain degree on the nature of the exposed tissues^ which are almost entirely deficient in cellular structure or muscle^ and consist of tendons, synovial sheaths, bones, and skin. Amputation at the wrist-joint need not include the opening of the joint between the radius and ulna, and even when the quantity of parts left to cover the exposed joint is not very considerable, the stump sometimes granulates freely, and heals rapidly. The exposed ends of the bones granulate either with removal of the cartilage, or on the cartilaginous surface, and by their luxuriance present a remarkable contrast to the raw sm-face often seen on the surface of a stump, when amputation has been performed just above the wrist, through the radius and ulna. In amputating at the wrist-joint it is not always easy to get a good flap at the palmar side. After the lateral connexions of the joint are divided, and the joint opened from the dorsal surface, the long edge of the knife turns with difficulty in the joint, and the blade may even pass between the os pisilorme and os cuneiforme. The prominent head of the trapezium, and the projection of the os pisiforme, pre- vent the carrying forwards of the edge of the knife on the under surface of the wrist, whilst the space between the articular surfaces of the first row of cai'pal bones, and the ends of the radius and ulna, is too narrow to allow the ready turning of the blade. The effect of these two obstacles, unless care be taken, may be to reduce the palmar flap to a very small size. The chief mode of avoiding the difficulty is to divide the lateral parts of the joint very freely indeed, and thus to be able to turn the upper surface of the carpus right backwards, instead of in a direction only upwards and backwards. The number of amputations of the leg and tliigh performed annually in a large London hospital is very considerable, and suffi- cient for a student to form a very good idea of the relative chances of a good stump from the circular or flap operations respectively. There can be no doubt that a hospital surgeon, who is frequently required to amputate, may obtain a stump of the most perfect kind in either way, and specimens of stumps might be shewn without a single fault, from either form of amputation. But a student has to begin, and his hand cannot be practised at first, and he must