122 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. complained of pain in the pelvis and perineum, of cedema of the penis, and constant inclination to make water, vdth fever. Examination of the abdomen shewed acute peritonitis, espe- cially in the pelvis, with abscess in the tissue round the bladder. The spinal cord was quite healthy, except just opposite the cm-ve, where it was much diminished in diameter, healthy on its surface, but soft in consistence. The dorsal vertebrae were quite healthy, except about the situation of the fourth; here one vertebral body was almost entirely wanting, and the two neighbouring bones were also somewhat diminished in size. The chief destruction of the vertebrae was on their anterior surface, their posterior part being hardly affected. Shght suppuration had taken place round the vertebrae, wliich were partially united in the situation of the disease by soft substance. The part pressing on the spinal cord was the posterior edge of the vertebrae, which were placed in this position in consequence of the great destruction of the anterior compared with the posterior part. The following dissections of contracted joints are inserted in reference to the division of tendons, as well as on account of the few opportunities which occur of examining these parts;— A man had acute inflammation of the left annular finger, which terminated in suppuration; the pus was evacuated by puncture, and the part healed kindly without any separation of the tendon. During the few following months the finger gradually contracted, and became bent on the palm, so as to be quite useless. The finger was quite firm and rigid, not yielding the least between the metacarpal bone and distal phalanx, but was not much thickened. The flexor tendon was divided by Mr. Stanley by subcutaneous incision, without producing the least effect. The finger was afterwards amputated between the phalanx and metacarpal bone. The finger was examined. The skin and subcutaneous tissue, bones and joints, were quite healthy. The external surface of the sheath of the finger was sliining, and but little altered from its natural appearance. The sheath formed a triangular bridle, filling the angle made by the flexure of the second phalanx upon the first, having its basis, which formed a shai-p edge, situated under the skin. This sheath was somewhat thickened, and formed one