86 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEEVATION3 IN SURGERT. dorsal, there was a chasm into which the tliree first fingers could be placed with ease, being in measurement full two inches in length. No paralysis of motion or sensation were present in this case; and at the end of three months the chasm between the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebrae gradually had lessened, with subsidence of the pain, leaving some deformity and weakness of the back. The similarity of these cases, in the situation of the injury, the mode of occurrence of the accident, and the peculiar features of the cases, is most remarkable. In the last case the injury was apparently one vertebra liigher than in the rest. The following two preparations illustrate these cases. Sir Charles Bell* has given a drawing of dislocation of the last dorsal from the first lumbar vertebra, which occurred in a cliild, from the wheel of a heavy coach going over its back. The child Hved thirteen months, and then died of croup. In this in- stance the last dorsal and fii’st lumbar vertebrae* are completely dis- located fi’om eacli other, both in the antero-posteriorand lateral direc- tions, with a very shght fracture of the lumbar vertebrae. In addi- tion to this injury, the spinal marrow was completely torn across. In the Museiun of St. Bartholomew's Hospital is a speciment of dislocation of the last dorsal vertebra forwards, with fracture of a small portion of the upper surface of the first lumbar vertebra, the articular processes remaining, however, entire. The fractured portion has united firmly, with great deposition of bone round the part, fixing the dislocated vertebra in its unnatural position. There ai’e some points of especial interest in these cases, which are,—the reason of displacement at this particular part, and the cause of the slight symptoms observed to succeed to it. The examination of the bones of the spine, and ot the motions of the trunk, explains the facility with which the bones may be sepa- rated at tliis part, whilst the form of the spinal cord and nerves at this part are such as to render pressure on them less dangerous and forcible. If we .examine the vertebrae of the lower part ol the dorsal and * Obs. oil Injuries of Spine and Thigh Bone. Tlo. 182T, pp. 79 and 25. t Injuries of Bones and .foints, IT. 9t.