390 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUROERY. The only preparation of iodine for internal use which I have had the opportunity of seeing employed on a large scale is the hydriodate of potash: the iodides of iron and mercury have been employed in some few cases of sypliilitic disease at St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital, but the result of these cases has not been remarkable for such a degree of benefit, as compared with the other means, as to induce the employment of these preparations on a large scale. The ordinary dose employed is four or five grains given three times in the day, this quantity being increased occasionally by a few grains, but rarely by any considerable addi- tion. Although hydriodate of potash is generally employed without giving rise to any bad symptoms or annoyance, yet such is not invariably the case, and the employment of a moderate dose at first, reduces the probability of the occurrence of any accidents, at the same time that it is generally sufficient to answer the desired purpose. The effects of iodine are generally manifested soon after the commencement of its use, and an early earnest of benefit will occur in most cases, where the advantage is gained by the employment of iodine. It is remarkable how rarely any bad effects are produced at the present day by the employment of iodine, as compared with the employment of the same medicine on its first introduction. In addition to the better knowledge of the action of this remedy gained by experience, and to the estabhsh- ment of a more uniform preparation by its introduction into the Pharmacopoeia, the liydriodate of potash has become the standard form, instead of the tinctures and preparations of the pure sub- stance. The employment of hydriodate of potash, into the composition of wliich a considerable quantity of alkali enters, seems to produce the full effects of iodine without any practical risk, provided a moderate dose, and a pure preparation, be employed, at the same time that the patient is carefully watched during the employment of the medicine. There does not appear to be at present any very clear proof of the efficacy of iodine in primary disease. This medicine, it is true, has been only partially tried; but the want of any repetition of these trials is a strong argument against the good result derived from its slight use. The greatest* advantage derived from iodine in primary disease is seen in the treatment of patients, who from