54 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. patients are unable to describe the pecubarities of tbeir pains and suffering. Instances of but little sufleriiig resulting from fracture, occasionally, however, present themselves in children as well as in adults. The little suffering not uncommonly experienced by children from fracture of the coUar-bone is sometimes very marked, and a laboui’ing man, with fracture of both bones of the fore-arm, has been seen to clench his fist and brandish his arm in a fighting attitude, without any apparent uneasiness. Ill 1844, a boy came in with an injured leg; he could not walk, and screamed in agony when his leg was examined; but there was no crepitus or yielding. Tliere was, however, pain, and the leg was puffy over the painful part. Mr. Stanley considered it to be broken. In about two or tliree weeks the limb had glided a little forwards at this line, and shewed clearly that it had been broken. The case did well. In 1844 an old woman broke her leg. The crepitus could not be felt for the first week; there was, however, great pain and }ielding of the bone on trying to bend it at the painful part. At the end of one week crepitus could be readily felt. A woman, (1840-41), was knocked down, and a wheel went over her leg, crushing the skin. She was admitted under Mr. Law- rence. There was no clear crepitus or fracture on the most atten-' tive examination, but the hmb was placed carefully on its side and watched. In a few days the upper portion came forward, and press- ing against the injured skin came through. The leg united well. These are a few cases out of many which have well illustrated the facts, that a bone may be broken and its fracture be unaccom- panied by the common signs, and that bones often come of them- selves into that position in wliich a surgeon cannot place them^ at an early period, and would often do harm by attempting to effect. When a man breaks his leg, the fracture generally unites, and does weU, no subsequent ailment arising from it. Such, how- ever, is not always the case. A growth may arise six-and-forty years afterwards, from parts which have remained hard over a fracture requiring the removal of the limb, as in the folloudng case. A man, aged 50, was admitted Nov. 1, 1843, under Mr. Stanley, laboiu’hig under a large fungous ulcer of the left leg. The