24 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. CHAPTER II. ON FRACTURES OF THE RIBS, LOWER JAW, AND PELVIS. Fracture of the ribs: Crepitus of ribs on auscultation. Admission of air into the lung on the injured side. Affections of the lungs and plem’a. Venesection on the occurrence of fracture. Injm’ies to the chest in children. Case of simple conipression of the chest. Case of ruptured bronchus in a child. Escape of air into the pleirra, imattended by any inflammatoiy affection of the pai-ts. Injuries to the lungs. Abscess round broken rib. Cases of lacerated lung terminating fatally. Case of sudden effusion of blood into the pleura, \vith recovery. Dissec- tion of case of effusion into the chest, eighteen years afterwards. Fractnre of the lower jaw : Affection of mouth resembling salivation after fractm’e. Fractm’e in the mesial line. Absence of laceration of the gum. Fi’acture of the lower jaw, followed by amaurosis. Fracture of the pelvis. Strength of the pelvis in one direction. Cause of laceration of the perineum. Broken ribs are perhaps the most common of all fractures, and are generally easily detected. In addition, however, to the common means of detection, the crepitus of a broken rib may often be also heard, if the ear is applied to the chest soon after the accident; but the crepitus of a broken rib generally ceases to be audible about the third, fifth, or sixth day. It is a regular harsh grate, and distinct from all crepitation, chiefly, and at times oidy, audible during inspiration, as well as sometimes audible oidy occasionally; at other times it is audible during several successive insj)irations, and then ceases for a time. It is generally a mere matter of curiosity, for the hand detects the crepitus more easily, and examines a larger sjiace at once. Pneumonia and pleurisy occur very seldom indeed after ordi- nary fracture of tlie ribs, but slight broncliitis of the smaller tubes is not at all uncommon. Tor many days after a rib h;is been broken, the injured side of the chest, moves less freely, and the lung admits