117 AFFECTION OF JOINTS. classed with those described by Dr. Heine,* in which dislocation took place from disease of the hip in young persons, and in some of which the femur was artificially and permanently reduced to its natural situation at a subsequent period. Unusual results ensuing in ordinary cases strike one^s atten- tion so forcibly, that even without a satisfactory knowledge of the real cause of the peculiarity of such cases, the case itself assumes an extraordinary interest. The following case of disease of the hip presented nothing unusual on admission, but within a month the ehild was dying of symptoms resembling those of acute affection of the brain, wlulst the symptoms of the diseased hip were now in such utter abeyance, that the child in its deliiium assumed the very position which is least in accordance with disease of the hip- joint :— A dehcate girl, six years old, was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, in moderately good health, with pain in the liip, lameness, pain on motion, and vith a shght bending of the knee. There were no marks of acute disease, no abscess, nor any pecuharity to distinguish it from common chi’onic disease of the hip. The disease was said to have arisen about two months previously, but not to have been accompanied with any severe symptoms. The father and mother were healthy, but had lost one child, about eight years old, from convulsions. She was kept quiet in bed; six leeches were apphed to the joint on the second day, and four on the fourteenth day. A plaster of strong mercurial ointment was apj)lied around the joint. On the twenty-fourth day, the pai-ts being tolerably quiet and much the same as on admission, a caustic issue was made behind the joint. On the two- or three days after the apphcation of the issue the child was feverish and hot, lying gathered up in a lump in the bed, and not noticing tilings going on around it. On the twenty-ninth and thirtieth days, the child was very sick, and took hardly any food; was hot, with a frequent and not very feeble pulse. She now sat quite ujiright on her liips in bed, * Uebcr spontanc und congenitale Luxationcn, von J. Heine,—Stuttgart, 1842.— A very eoniplete abstraet of tliis essay is contained in the British and Foreign McdiciU Review, vol, xvi. p. 486. The original paper and tlic plates arc, liowever, most, instriietivc.