MERCUllY IN SIMPLE AND INDURATED PRIMARY ULCERS. ^^1)9 on a liai-cl button of skin, and are often matched by similar sores on corresponding parts of tlie edge of tlie opposite labium. It is also worthy of note, that a sore of' a simple nature occui'riiig at the lower end of one of the nymphse, occasionally burrows very deep, and so completely loses all superficial characters as to form a regular well of pus, and to resemble the result of a sloughing sore in that pai't. The influence of mercmial treatment on these sores has been regularly and thorouglily tried, both by the internal and external employment of that medicine. The disease has also been left to ciue itself, as well as treated according to the ordiuaiy modes of common practice. There can be no doubt that under the employment of simple medicines, and also by doing notliing at all, many of these sores heal well and completely; but such is by no means the invariable rule, and so frequently do superficial sores, cai’elessly treated or entirely neglected, last for an unusually long time, as compared with the period required for their cure under careful treatment, that some direct treatment is often beneficial, and sometimes absolutely necessary. The next question is is the employment of mercury in these cases attended with any advantage which does not follow a simple but regular plan of treatment ? Superficial ulcers are often treated by the application of mild lotions of nitrate of silver or sulphate of zinc, great care being taken to keep the parts very clean, and to vary the local applica- tion according to the rapid or slow healing of the part. At the same time the general health of the patient is particularly attended to, and the diet increased or lowered in quality or quantity. The success of this plan is often complete, the cicatrization of the parts rapid, and the cure perfect; but yet this plan will not cure every superficial sore in a reasonably short time, and these obstinate cases are generally improved in a decided manner by the employ- ment of mercury. The use of merciu-y being attended in some cases with a degree of benefit which does not follow the employment of simple means, it is important to ascertain how the cases benefited by the simple ])lan of treatment proceed when mercury is employed instead of the simple ])lan. The point is, in fact, to ascertain whether, in a p