118 CLINICAL COLLliCTIONS ANH OBSLEVATIONS IN SURGERY. regardless of her diseased joints staring wildly, and unconscious of the presence of her mother, but noticing objects and the light occasionally. The issue remained unseparated and dry. On the thirty-first day she was pale and quite unconscious, Avliilst her neck and head Avere stretched forcibly backivards. She died on this day. No examination was allowed. Sometimes, after disease of the hip joint, the patient's hip becomes firmly anchylosed in a straight position, without any alteration in length, andAAuth the foot but slightly inverted or everted; the head of the bone, in short, remaining entire, but firmly fixed into the acetabulum :— In the spring of 1843, there was under the care of Mr. Law- rence a boy, Avho had recovered some time previously from a diseased liip. In this boy the two lower limbs were equally muscular, and of the same length, the left limb being someivliat everted, and quite extended. The hip joint was quite fixed and immoveable. Mlien a patient has disease of the liip at an early period of life, and the recovery takes place even after the formation of abscesses, the limb frequently is stiU very useful. The foUoAving is an in- stance of a useful hmb, even though dislocated on the dorsum ilii:— In the summer of 1840, a man, mt. 35, apphed at the hospital for some other adment. He had been treated with a seton for disease of the left hip, accompanied Avith abscesses, twenty years previously, by Sir W. Blizard. He was now conductor of an om- nibus, and Avas able to run and even jump over a chair; the tAvo legs could not, hoAvever, be separated sufficiently to enable him to ride. The pelvic joints were very moveable; the limb was short- ened about tAVO inches, and tliinner than the opposite: from the shortening of the limb the heel was raised considerably, and the toe duected in such a manner doAimwards and forwards as to constitute talipes equinus. These tivo cases are examples of limbs anchylosed in the straight position, Avith and Avithout shortening, and Avith the foot neither much inverted nor everted : the limb, under such circum- stances, tliough much inferior to that in the healthy condition, is very useful, and the patient can Avalk moderately well. 'When the femur is drawn u]i on the dorsum ilii, and the liead of the bone is destroyed, the femur is not generally very much inverted, but only