258 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. symptoms of syphilitic disease exist besides this affection of the tongue, the employment of mercury in small quantities, with attention to the health, appears to be the best plan of treatment. The tongue at times presents along the part of the edge near the apex, and in more severe cases along the entire edge on both sides, a series of ulcers, so that this part appears alternately indented and raised, presenting what might be called a castellated appearance. These ulcers present a foul, unhealthy appearance, are destitute of hardness, and are generally accompanied with ulceration of the same character on the inside of the cheek; the pressure of the teeth seeming to act in both cases, and to cause, to a certain degree, the ulceration. The accurate resemblance of these ulcers to those which occur after salivation is very great; they are, however, met with where no mercurial affection exists, when there is neither soreness nor fulness of the gums, and appear as a regular secondary symptom. The employment of hydriodate of potash is followed by rapid benefit in these cases, and is prefer- able to the use of mercury, wliich, though attended with benefit, acts more slowly and with less certainty. The ulcerated fissures of the tongue very commonly heal readily; at other times they heal at first, but recur again several times at distant periods; and in some few cases, where the tongue is raw, swelled, and deeply fissured, all means seem quite insufficient to restore the tongue to a healthy condition. The chance of curing the fissured tongue depends not only on the severity of the disease itself, but also on the other secondary sjunptoms, which accompany it; so true is this, that a badly fissured tongue, aecompanied vdth mild secondary symptoms, is a much less serious matter than a less severely affeeted tongue with rupia or phagedaenic sores. The fissured tongue, considered alone, is benefited more by the mild employment of mercury in small doses for a considerable period, than by any other means. The nature of the accom- panying symptoms will suggest the propriety, in many cases, of preference being given to preparations of iodine or mereury, but where any doubt exists as to the remedy to be employed, the mild employment of mercury appears to be the best and most certain mode of treating this affection. The upper surface of the tongue is occasionally the scat of a