233 MEUCUUY AND IODINE IN VENEUEAL DISEASES. the eruption seem gradually to shade into these groMdlis^ which appear to be simply spots of ernption modified by the situation and moisture of the part, and yield to the same plan of treatment as the eruption, assisted by removal of the moisture, by which they ai-e particularly affected. This form of growth is accurately described by Mr. Hunter. After speaking of the sypliibtic eruptions of the skin, he adds : “ Sncli appearances are peculiar to that part of the common skin of the body which is usually exposed, but when the skiu is opposed by another sldn, which keeps it in some degree more moist, as between the nates, about the anus, or between the scrotum and the thigh, or in the angle between the two thighs, or upon the prolabinm of the mouth, and in the arm-pits, the eruptions never acquii’e the above described ajipearances, and instead of scurfs and scabs we have the skin elevated, or, as it were, tumefied by the extravasated lymph into a wlnte, soft, moist, flat surface, wliich discharges a white matter. This may perhaps arise from there being more warmth, more perspiration, and less evaporation, as well as from the skin being thinner ui such places.^^* In the cases already described the condylomata or flat growths from the skin have been either comiected with the remains of imperfectly cured primary disease, or with the secondary affection of the skin in children and adults, and yield to the same plan of treatment as the affection with which they are connected, provided means be taken to place them in the same condition by removal of the moisture of the part. It is not uncommon, however, to meet with cases of condylo- mata which cannot be classed under these heads, which in fact arc not connected particularly with any cutaneous affection, and are less amenable to any plan of general treatment. Amongst the patients of a large hospital there are a certain number who laboui- under repeated attacks of gonorrhoea and sypluhs, both primary and secondary, who are part of the lowest class of the po])ulation, and add to their sufferings from want, by intem- perance, unclcanliticss, and neglect of all kinds. Amongst these patients some are met with, from time to time, in whom the ♦ lluuter’a Works, by Pnlnier, vol. ii. p. 408.