CONTENTS. IX PAGE Chap. VII. — On certain circumstances influencing the Convalescence of Patients. Frequency of disease in patients requiring operations or suffering from accidents. Influence of drunkenness, organic disease, and want, in rendering operations and injm’ies in such cases fatal. Fatal eases of delirium tremens. Oecasional peculiarity of symptoms in injuries of the head of persons mentally affeeted, as weU as in habitually intemj)e- rate persons. Occurrence of tubercle in persons suffering from fistula in ano, as well as in persons affected with disease of the spine . . 95 Chap. VIII.—Affections of Joints. Occasional severity of pain in inflammation of the synovial membrane. Disease lingering in one joint after rheumatism, its destructive action and occasional want of marked symytoms. Sudden acute disease of joints in healthy persons, terminating in anchylosis without suppura- tion. Disease affecting the fibrous structure of a joint alone. Disease of the hip of a child suddenly followed by dislocation, apparently without ulceration of the joint. Disease of the hip suddenly fatal with cerebral symptoms. Anchylosis of the hip. Distension of the knee with fluid. Case of loose cartilage. Lumbar abscess containing an unusual quau- tity of matter. Affection of the spine, in which the. symptoms partly resembled those arising from disease and partly those from injury. Dissections of a contracted finger, of a case of talipes varus, and of contracted toes . . . . . . . . . .Ill Chap. IX.—On Amputations. Amputation of fingers. Dissection of an old stump, where the end of the metacarpal bone was left. Effects of pressure on the fingers. Amputation at the wrist and just above it. Flap and circular ampu- tations of tliigh. Division of vessels. Difference of dcgi’ec of retrac- tion of the vessels. Retraction of integuments spontaneously subsiding. Peculiarity of the stumps of the femur. Injuiy to vessels in the leg. Mobility of fibula. Cicatrix on tibia after flap amputation. Calcareous arteries often unite well, and attended with little inconvenience in some cases. Occurrence of phlebitis and cerebral aflection after amputation. Division of tarsus. Removal of metatarsal bone. Dissection of three ulcerated stumps, from amputation, from frost-bite, and from injury . 128