SUMMARY OF THE RESULTS OF MERCURY AND IODINE. 281 fuse tnenstruatioiij bear salivation very ill. Severe salivation is also to be avoided sedulously in many cases of syplulitic ulceration of the larynXj as the swelling of the inside of the mouth materially augments the previous difficulty of breathing. The state of constitution usually denominated strumous is by no means a positive contraindication to the cautious employment of mercury; if such were the case the frequency of this condition of constitution amongst the lower orders would often prevent mer- curial treatment. In patients whose constitution is weakj and presents the common general signs of scrofula, the employment of mercury is sometimes attended with very great benefit, the patients gaining a degree of flesh and strength under its use which they had not previously enjoyed. It is not meant here to include that degree of fatness wliich is said occasionally to foUow a mer- curial course, (tliis may be looked upon as a morbid symptom, and is quite contrary to a sign of health), but that degree of health and strength is meant which renders the patient able to work hard and feel weU, as well as enables the important organs of the body to discharge their functions in a healthy and natural manner. Amongst the patients who bear the employment of mercury veiy iU, large flabby fat people may be reckoned, in whom mercm-y has been administered for primary disease accompanied with bubo. In these cases the mouth has not become much affected, but con- siderable fever, of a low kind, accompanied with extreme weakness and wakefulness, has occurred, during which the enlarged glands have suppurated freely, and sometimes with the formation of dark grumous matter in large quantity and widely diffused. The simple abstinence from mercmy, and the employment of nutritious food with tonic treatment, have not been sufficient to restore these patients readily to health, and the means wliich have appeared to be most beneficial have been free exposure to a better air, and a better mode of hfe. ^Mien mercury is given in the treatment of venereal disease to produce a constitutional effect, it is always desirable that some affection of the gums should be produced, inasmuch as the benefit then derived is greatest, and an accurate estimate may be formed of the action of the mercury. The effect of mercury thus employed is certainly greatest where the aflection of the mouth is produced.