CmCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 101 success ill its employment; and tlie post-mortem exammatioiis, even of some of these surgical casesj will be found to describe a soft pulpy spleen^ imperfectly coagulated dark blood, and a loaded condition of the lung-s, in as decided a manner as the notes of a regular case of ordinary low fever. But there is tliis difference; wliilst the organs of the fever case were perhaps free from old dis- ease, the notes of the surgical case wiU often describe a mass of changes, slight, perhaps, in any one single organ, but amounting collectively to a pressure oii several of the most important func- tions of the body. The lungs may be free from tubercles, but they ai’e emphysematous; the kidneys may not be granular, but they are mottled and pale; the hver, though not hobnailed, is greasy and yellow, and though the heart is not enlarged, there are old opacities in the arteries and on the mitral and aortic valves. The tlnee chief affections destroying patients, after operations and injuries—the general habit produced by drinking; secondly, organic disease in the lungs and kidneys, especially emphysema in the former, and granular disease in the latter; and thu’dly, tubercle—act very differently, and at diflereut periods. During the early period, and often for weeks after operations, patients labouring under tubercular disease do well; and it is often only at the absolute return to health, rather than during the recovery from the operation itself, that the effects of tubercle begin to shew themselves. Organic disease produced by drunkenness, and ha- bitual drunkemiess, act differently; the organic disease presses heavily at every period, and may destroy life either early or late; but the mere habits of the drunkard shew themselves chiefly at a very early period. The patient, who neaidy sinks from liis un- sound organs within the few fh-st days, often lags on for days and weeks in danger; but the man who has simple delirium tremens is taken ill directly, and often dies, but if he recovers from his delinum he generally gets well from the operation, and sometimes quickly. Amongst the number of poor in a large hospital there are many whose ostensible ailment is very slight, but who arc ad- mitted for the cure of this ailment, and especially to improve their wretched condition. Tor these a comfortable bed and good food are the principal medicines required. It not uncommonly, how- ever, happens that patients with very serious disease arc mhuitted.