108 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. pressioii of liis ideas, whilst his recent thoughts seemed not to recur again to liim. He was able to wallc a moderate distance, not however without shaking, or liability to fall on getting back into his bed. His consciousness, powers of exertion, and reasoning, gradually improved from this imperfect condition, and he had on his discharge, March 10th, 1812, nearly regained liis usual con- dition of health. On March 10th, the note says, “he is up most of the day, and has the use of all his senses quite perfectly, with the exception of some slight dimness of sight. He can answer questions quite well, and states that he remembers nothing from falling out of the cart, till he found himseK in the Hospital in bed.^^ The following circumstances illustrative of the co-existence of phthisis with fistula in ano and disease of the spine have been noticed. The frequent occurrence of fistula in ano, at the same time as tubercles in the lungs, appears to be free from all question, what- ever connection there may be between the two affections. A certain number of patients apply for relief for fistula, iii whom phthisis is so xuidoubted, that any operation is refused. The following sixteen notes were taken indifferently of patients with fistula in ano admitted at different periods, in whom the chest was carefully examined. In six, probably seven, phthisis appeared to exist; these cases, perhaps, do not show an absolute connection, that is, they do not show that the fistula was a tuberculous ulcer originally; but the circumstances attending the fistula in the cases of phthisis were remarkably similar. These six patients, with one exception, were young : the fistula came apparently of itself, udthout cause. Cough, or hectic fever, or hemoptysis, or emaciation, were mentioned where a history was obtained. The physical signs of tubercle were present, and, with one exception, tubercles only, not cavities. In tliis one case a cavity existed; the fistula had been divided, and the cough had commenced two months afterwards. In two cases the fistula oc- curred after fever; in one of these the patient had suffered from h£cmo])tysis, and the chest was in a doubtful condition.