APFECTIONS OF THE UHIXARY AND GF.MTAT, ORGANS. 1(51 Tlie hydrocele filled again. Cold lotions were applied, and iri three weeks the scrotum was nearly of its natural size. In the common forms of hsematocele there arc some circum- stances wliich seem to indicate that the cutaneous veins of the scrotum are not the source of the blood whicli distends the tunica vaginalis. When a man \aoleutly squeezes his thighs together, or a great weight strikes the scrotum, the whole cellular tissue of the part may fiU with blood, and a hydi'ocele be converted into a haematocele. In such a case the cutaneous veins are probably in- jured, but in the gi'eat majoiity of htematoceles, whether caused by blows, or by puncture for the cure of a hydrocele, the ecchy- mosis is very slight indeed. Although the ecchymosis is slight, the effusion of blood is most rapid, and a large hydrocele vnll sometimes fill with blood in a few hours. This want of ecchjano- sis, combined with rapid effusion, throws some doubt on the cuta- neous veins being the cause of the effusion; and if we look at their size, and relations to the surrounding parts, the doubt is in- creased. Even in an inflamed scrotum these veins will not always bleed freely, and if they did bleed subcutaneously, the thin skin of the scrotum could not hide an ecchymosis, which forms here as readily as in the eyelids. If, however, these veins could bleed, woidd the blood run through the cellular tissue into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis tlirough the opening made by the trocar ? It is very doubtful if it would. When the tunica vaginalis slips off the canula, the wine, even with all the force of the syringe, runs chiefly into the cellular tissue, and hardly in any quantity into the tunica vaginalis; so that with aU the danger of the sloughing of the scrotum, the patient may remain uncured of his hydrocele. This is not a mere matter of curiosity. In addition to the im- portance of knowing the right cause of the bleeding, there is an opinion sometimes held, which is very questionable, and may bring blame on one by n^hom no fault has really been committed. It is said, “ before tapping a- hydrocele, let the surgeon be careful to find the veins of the scrotum, and not by puncturing them convert a hydrocele into a haematocele.^’ Tliis is right advice a.s lar as it goes, but there is no doid)t that the most careful man does sometimes convert a hydrocele into a haematocele, even with iM