176 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUROERV. mediately into the glottis, and pulled out a large coagulum which had tumbled into it. This relieved the man, and he lived for a day or two. There is a class of cases of suicide of the most awful descrip- tion, where the patient studies beforehand the nature of the parts, and arranges his plan of self-destruction. The following is one of these, and ])resents some remarkable points :— The house-surgeon was called up to see a man with a cut throat. He found a man seated on a bench in the ward, looking moderately easy and comfortable, with a little wound on the side of the neck, about half an inch long, and apparently through the skin. Suddenly the man seemed suffocated, fell, and died. Tins man had passed in a pen-knife, M’hich had pierced a large vessel in the neck, and then run on into the trachea. The blood had suddenly flowed into the trachea, and then he died suffocated. Wlien the pharynx is opened, nourishment by enemata is not always attended with any good result. The following case, how- ever, well illustrates the benefit at times attending their use ;— A man of about twenty years of age, was admitted under the care of Mr. LawTcnce, with liis pharynx opened and the glottis exposed. He was unable to articulate, and vomited frequently through the wound, for an hour and a half, fluid mixed wnth blood. On the second day he had an enema of milk. From the 2d to the 41st day he took daily, in tluee enemata collectively, two pints of broth made from rather more than one pomid of beef. Plis hunger was always appeased by the enemata. When his bowels were confined some salt was added, which was sufficient to open them. Once some wine was added to the injection. On the 41st day the injections were omitted, and food was given by the bowels. On the 51st day the wound was nearly healed, and the mn-n looked well, and in tolerably good condition; he could, however, only speak in a whisper. The wound in cases of cut throat generally unites well, without sutures or any particular means being employed. Such, however, is not always the case. At times the skin above the wound unites by an irregular membrane, over the cut edge of cartilage, with the mucous membrane of the larynx, whilst the most promi-