93 BUESAL TUMOES. It is not uncommon to lind in these bursal tumors small white smooth substances, resembhng melon seeds; these have been found both in the sweUiugs around the tendons, and in the natural synovial hru'sae, as that on the patella. When closely examined, they appeal- to be of the size of a large melon seed, quite white, firm in substance, and contain a small cavity : they are generally mixed with a more or less considerable quantity of serum, of rather an opaque colour, and differ but little from each other in size. The quantity of fluid existing-' with these growths is generally greater in the synovial sheaths of tendons than in the synovial bursae, so that the bursa on the patella is sometimes found to be closely filled vdth them, with hardly any accom- panying fluid. The huing membrane of the bursae containing these gi-owths is generally opaque, and considerably thickened; so much so, indeed, tliat its continuation over the tendons is quite white and opaque, and the bright sliining appearance of the ten- dons quite wanting. There is a pecuhar form of tumor connected -with the sheaths of the tendons about the knee-joint. These tumors are elastic, and become prominent on extension of the knee-joint, but recede more and more from the feel as the joint is flexed, until the swell- ing at last disappears on complete or considerable flexure of the knee. These sweUings are in general about the size of a fives- ball, have a more or less distinct fluctuation, and are situated on the inner side of the popliteal space. They have occurred fre- quently in men, and once in a cliild about eight years old, situated on the inner side of the popliteal space, and at a short distance above the fibula; lying, in fact, beneath the tendons of the semi- tendinosus and semi-membranosus. In dissecting bodies in tire rooms, tumors of this kind have been found twice situated in the popliteal space, consisting of a cyst containing a viscid fluid of a yellowish colour, and situated close to the bursa, imder the semi-membranosus muscle in one instance, whilst in a second the fluid was contained in the proper bursa of the semi-membranosus tendon, and consisted of a fluid resembling apple-jeUy. The following is the note of one of these cases :— A. stout muscular man was found to labour under a bursal