115 AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. Disease is seen to aflect the synovial or cartilaginous tissue of a joint separately^ and often to limit itself for a considerable period to one of these structui-es. In the following case the fibrous sheaths and hgaments of the knee-joint were almost exclusively affected, and that to such a degree as to lame the man almost completely:— A stout healthy man, about forty years of age, was admitted in January 1843, labouring under relaxation of the right knee-joint, Avith a sHght -affection of the left. He was not liable to rheuma- tism. Tlie right knee was sprained four years since; he worked for some weeks, and then lay up in bed more or less till September 1842, since which he lay up altogether. This knee is not swelled or painful, but the sheaths of the tendons on the outer and inner side of the knee crackle under the hand when pressed, wlulst the tibia shdes forwards and backwards on the femur in flexion and extension, the sartorius at the same time slipping over the edge of the femoral condyle, so that from the crackling of the sheaths, the slipping of the tendon, and the sliding of the bones, the joint has completely lost the firm gradual motion of a healthy knee; the inner condyle is also distinctly enlarged, swelled, and rough. He can hardly walk up stairs, and only walks comfortably with liis knees quite straight, and to strengthen them ties a handkerchief just below the knee over the tendons iu that situation. He states that the left knee was hurt eighteen years since, but is sound and good; this joint, however, crackles considerably mider the fingers in the sheaths of the tendons on the inner side, but otherwise appears sound. This man remained in the hospital a short time, and then went out as on admission. Cases have been recorded of disease of a rheumatic form occm- ring in joints, accompanied vlth such changes in the fibrous capsules as allowed dislocation to occur. The following case resembles -these in its results, but it differs from them in a most marked manner in one respect, inasmuch as it presented itself as one of ordi- nary diseased hip in a child, and was probably of the strumous kind; but the symptoms of any active disease were absent, the head of the bone remained entire, and the mildness of the symp- toms, with the seriousness of the result, could only be explained