68 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. -on the child leaving the Hospital^ so rapidly returning, that there was every prospect of their being completely regained. When the openings around a compound fracture of the elbow have healed up, the motions of the joint are frequently very much impaired, and accompanied with pain. It is remarkable, however, to what an extent joints under these cu’cinnstances recover subsequently, when attention is paid to the part. Thus an elbow joint which, at the end of six or eight weeks time from the receipt of the injury, had gained very little motion, and that accompanied with pain, in two years will sometimes recover the power of free flexion and extension, limited only at the extreme degrees of these motions—the patient, in short, gaining almost complete use of his arm—when at a previous period a doubt might have been entertained of any great use of the hmb ever being obtained. Amongst the accidental cases of great interest occurring in a large hospital, may be reckoned compound fractures of the fore-arm and leg; not those where, from the severity of the injury, ampu- tation is immediately required, but those where the balance in favour of leaving or removing the hmb is so accurately adjusted, that it is doubtful to which side the greatest weight inclines. In many cases there is a question of choice between the compara- tive usefulness of a stump and a more or less impaired limb ; but this is far from being the general nde, and the decision often turns on the question of the patient surviving the natm’al consequences of the injury, or being in a condition to allow an operation at a future period, which is not performed at first. In the period elapsing between the accident and the ultimate restoration to health, there are often days and weeks which are dearly bought, even with a limb. There are days at the early period when a pain in the back or in the jaw, or a rigor, are equivalent to almost certain death; there are often weeks vlien recovery is slow, or the patient^s condition is but stationary; and even when aU things go well, some persons do not bear confinement. These are the dangers of a doubtful question of amputation, and they concern a maids life—not liis mere limb. The cases of injury in which the propriety of amputation has been doubtful have varied very much in their result, but injuries