74 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. William Basford, set. 14, admitted under Mr. Lawrence, par- tially insensible, but noticing objects round liim, and conscious of what was said to him when roused. From the meatus of the right ear a watery fluid, mixed udth a considerable quantity of blood, flowed on the pillow during the horn' after admission. He had fallen down seven steps, on the upper part and right side of his head, a short time before admission : this fall appears to have produced complete insensibility at the time. 2d day, 1 p.m.—The boy is now become quite sensible, as re- gards consciousness of persons and sounds near liim, answ'ering questions clearly and weU. Wlien he first woke, the objects in the ward were dim and cloudy, but gradually objects have become as clear as usual. From the right ear a clear watery fluid, un- mixed with blood, now flows freely, so that the pillow is quite wet. Tliis fluid comes quite deep from the meatus. 3d day.—Slept very little in the night, and complained of the light hurting him on waking. He was restless and very sick at times during the day. About 4 o’clock he became gradually in- sensible in about an hour, the discharge having ceased just about that time. In the night of the 3d, and 4th morning, he had a kind of convulsion, and died about 3 a.m. on the 4th day. The brain was not torn or marked with blood. The araclmoid was rather dry. The petrous portion of the temporal bone was broken in its long axis, right into the canals and tympanum; the membrana tympani was also considerably torn. It w^as not certain whether the dura mater was torn over the fracture, which extended nearly along the line of the superior petrosal sinus, with a lateral part extending to the internal meatus. Sarah Newland, mt. 5, admitted June 18th, 1842, 2 pm. under Mr. Skey. This child was brought in quite senseless and motion- less, with a slight wound of the scalp on the right side and upper part of the head: in tlus place the bone could be felt broken, and not depressed; there was some bleeding from the right ear. The scalp was divided, and some loose, broken portions of bone removed by Mr. Skey with the forceps ; an extensive fracture was found at the same time extending towards the base. The cliild’s condi- tion was not altered by the removal of the bone.