196 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEKVATIONS IN SURGERY. could not be felt: the brachial artery was indistinct even in its upper part. There was no affection of the heart. Menstruation was quite regidar, and the hand did not mortify at a menstrual period. There was notliing particular about the appearance of the lini- ment, and the parts near the mortified part presented no marked unnatural appearance beyond staining of the skin. At the end of two months and a half (June 11) from the com- mencement of her illness, the following note was made:—The dead ends of the fingers have been removed now for some time, and the parts are nearly healed. She has lately had considerable pain up the arm, unattended, however, by any redness or pain in the wound, or of the arm. The brachial artery cannot be felt; there is not, however, any distinct cord in its place. The following case of severe mortification of the thigh was not clearly explicable, and the characters of the disease were quite distinct from those of ordinary sloughing phagedsena. The man ultimately recovered, but his life was at one time in danger:— Isaac Erie, set. was admitted January 30, 1843, under Mr. Stanley, from Deptford, labouring under gonorrhoea prse- putii, with a band of redness about two inches in breadth running along the upper part of the left thigh, accompanied with swelling of the femoral glands a short way above this swelled and in- flamed part. The penis is swelled, mth discharge from the orifice of the prepuce, which is affected with phimosis : the part on which the end of the prepuce rests is exactly the spot where the disease began. The orifice of the prepuce presents a foul superficial yellow' ulcer. He is hot and feverish; the swelling of the thigh is very painful, and is said to have commenced four days since. Some punctures were made with a lancet in the j)art, and after- wards fomented. On the evening of the 21st a small vesicle was perceived on the inner and upper part of the thigh, which was surrounded by inflamed skin, and accompanied by consider- able swelhng of the upper part of the thigh. On the following day, (22d) this vesicle had burst, and the cuticle lay broken and dry over a space about the size of a shilling; the junction of the cuticle to the cutis being marked by a blue line, resembhng