INJURIES OF THE BONES OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 49 Earle’s bed. Next day no difference was perceptible in tlie two limbs, and on January 12tli he was discharged, able to run and walk quite well. Ealpli Harvey, 35—40, admitted, Nov. 18, 1842, under Mr. Staide}q with injury to the right knee. The femur is dislocated outwards, so that its inner condyle rests upon the outer tuberosity of the tibia, its anterior surface looking forwards and outwards. The tibia is carried inwards in the same degree that the femur is dislocated outwards, the anterior edge looking forwards and in- wards, whilst the foot at the same tune 'ndth the leg is inverted. The patella lies flat on the inner condyle, its edges being forwards and backwards; the knee being semi-flexed and fixed. Just be- fore admission, he was riding in a cart, and fell out: his leg being caught by some iron, fixed him for a short time before he came to the ground : ivlien he fell, he tried to walk, and moved a little, but his knee gave way, and he came down to I,he ground. The pelvis was fixed by a towel round the thigh, the leg was extended slightly, and the knee went in directly without a snap. Dec. 9.—He has now been in about three weeks; the knee has its natural appearance, and he leaves the hospital Math crutches. He called afteru^ards at the hospital, walking so well as to induce him to begin to M^alk Mdthout crutches. Tliis case recovered completely; yet a partially dislocated knee unredueed may make a very useful limb, as in the following case. A man, aged 41, M'as in the hospital, for some ailment, but had also a deformed knee. When aged 19 years, he fell on his left side, earrying a n eight, and M as put to bed for fourteen days : he then got up, and walked about Avith a stick, and M^as well in three M ceks from the time of the accident; Ihe patient can M'alk tMTuty miles a day easily, and has good use of his limb. In this patient the left knee joint presented a crooked appear- ance, M'hcn viewed from the front. The femur appears to be throAv n partially forward to the patella, more so on the inside than on the outside; the patella is throM n very much to the outer side. Ihe tibia is drawn baclcMards, and moved from its natural position so uiuch that the smooth internal surface is directed