148 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SURGEEY. A loud blowing sound is audible near the situation of the old aneurism, increased on each pulsation of the artery; this murmur, though increased at those periods, is also continuous and uninter- rupted, indistinctly audible down to near the apex of the stump, but very loud up to near the umbilicus in the course of the iliac vessels. There are some circumstances of the greatest interest in tliis most obscure and difficult case. The aneurism was so high up, that a very small portion of the artery lay between it and Poupart^s ligament, yet the vessel was reached and effectually tied. The aneurism was com- pletely removed, and when he returned at the end of a year no traces of it remained. Another point of interest in this case was the mortification of the limb, and its cause. So far as general ap- pearances went, this man was a most favourable subject for the operation. He was only thirty-five years of age, the aneurism was from a wound, and not from disease; and the man's powers must have been good, for he survived a wounded femoral artery, an operation for aneurism, a mortification of the limb, and an ampu- tation. It is probable that the cause of all this consisted in some origi- nal injury to the vein, as well as to the artery, and that although the operation completely answered its object in curing the aneu- rism, that the injury to the vein not only induced the mortification by affecting the circulation, but also gave rise to the peculiarities of the swelling in the thigh, which remained even after the aneurism was completely removed. The knife entered on the outside of the artery, and passed inwards an inch and a half: this might have reached the vein after wounding the artery. The peculiar tin-ill, and the continuity of the murmur, both seemed to refer to a venous swelling, whilst the indistinct descent of the murmur and its distinct ascent up as far as the umbilicus, shewed that the murmur was in the vein, and propagated in the dii-ection of its current. It was, however, stiU increased at the contraction of the heart, and therefore ivas connected in some way with the artery. Taking all the circumstances of this case together, it lA-ould