ON AlUPUTATlONS. 135 between the bone and the part of the wooden leg on which he rests. Thus in the flap amputation the simple fact of the back flap coming very far forwards ihay bring the union on the front edge of the tibia, and subject the patient to a sore on this part, of such severity, as to irrduce him to request a second amputation. The condition of an artery divided irr amputation appears to be less important than when the same vessel is tied in the substance of the limb on account of aneurism. Arteries with very con- siderable calcareous deposit in their coats often retain sufficient power to heal, although these same vessels might perhaps be hardly able to go tlu’ough those alterations in diameter in relation to the circulation, which are required after the main vessel of the limb has been tied. The two following cases are instances of arteries so diseased occurring in the amputation of limbs of persons who were neither young nor of favourable habits for operation, yet both patients ultimately did quite well:— 1. In the summer of 1841, a man was under the care of Mr. Law- rence, with an ulcerated stump below the knee requiring amputa- tion, and originally occurring from frost-bite, in North America. He was an old man; the arteries were very calcareous, and broke short off under the ligature; the stump, however, did well, though the restorative processes were slow. 2. A man, aged 58, was under the care of Mr. Lavuence, with acute inflammation of part of the foot and leg, with spots of mor- tification. His condition was very low, and for some time he might be described as bring cliiefly on gin, with porter, spirits, and beef-tea. The man was sinking, and in the hope of saving his life the leg was removed. The arteries were so calcareous that portions of them broke away under the ligature; they were, however, tied by enclosing some of the surrounding substance. The man got quite well: the ligatures separated at the usual time, and the stump slowly healed, witli very bttle suppm-ation or in- flammation. Considering the severity of the operation, and extent of the in- jury done to an individual by the removal of a limb above the knee, the success of the amputations there is very great. The patients are often placed under bad circumstances for operation, and thcii’