260 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. ing under a swelling of the tongue, nearly equal to a walnut in size, of extreme hardness, situated near the base of the organ, of an irregular round form, and underlying a portion, the surface of which was nearly destitute of papillae. The swelling was so large and so inconveniently situated as to impede deglutition and to a certain degree articulation. Tliis sweUing had commenced about two years previously without any particular cause, and at the end of a year had reached the size of an almond-shell: from tliis period it had continued to grow to its present size, being un- influenced by a short treatment to which he had been subjected for erysipelas of the head. In this case the employment of mercury was attended with the very best effect. Under its influence the swelHng diminished and lost its peculiarly hard character, so that when the patient left the hospital the swelling was reduced to one-third of its previous size. The patient was also seen after leaving the hospital, and was found to be still improving. The treatment of hernia humoralis is generally of so simple a nature that some apology may perhaps seem to be required for introducing it here. Mercury is, however, frequently used at St. Bai-tholomew^s Hospital in this affection, and ivith a very beneflcial effect. When the acute part of the complaint has been treated actively for one or two days, and the progress of the disease is decidedly checked, the exliibition of mercmy is commenced. This medicine is given in small quantities in a mild form, and continued for some time. The hydrargyrum cum creta, in doses of two grains and a haK tluee times a day, is generally employed, and appears to exercise a decided influence on the effusion of lymph; so that the thickening of the cord and induration of the epididymis appear to be much less where this jflan of treatment has been steadily followed. The exhibition of mercmy in this mild manner is com- menced after the ordinary antiphlogistic treatment has been em- ployed, without which, the employment of mercury, even in the form of calomel and opium, and that used freely, is comparatively inefficacious. This affection in recent cases jields so well to common means.