AFFECTIONS OF THE URINARY AND GENITAL ORGANS. 165 A man, aged seventy-two, was admitted into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Lawrence. A flabby, feeble man, with a completely blanched and somewhat yeUow skin; labouring under pain in making water, with desire to pass it every one or two hours. There is no difficulty in making water, no retention at any time, no pain in the loins, no gravel, no piles, and no stoppage in emptying his bowels. The urine is sp. gr. 1022, slightly acid, of a red colour, increased in quantity, containing a little mucus, forming a slight deposit, with some blood and salts; it is loaded with albumen. The blood separates but very slightly from the urine on standing. After the albumen has been separated by heat, the urine appears of its healthy colour. He has been sounded, but no stone was felt, no bleeding was produced, neither was the introduction of the catheter attended with much pain. He describes himself as generally healthy, and a printer by trade. He first began to pass blood in his water about two years since: the blood continued to flow for one week, accompanied with the present symptoms. Under medical treatment the haemorrhage subsided, but occurred again eighteen months since, for a week, as before. During the last three months it has flowed in the present manner, except for six weeks. The bleeding has never been traced to any evident cause : the urine has sometimes been clear, and unmixed with blood, till just at the end of the evacuation of his bladder. There has never been any pain in the loins, neither has calculous matter of any kind been visible. Various remedies were tried one after another: gaUic acid, alum, acetate of lead, sulphate of zinc, ergot of rye, and turpentine, produced hardly any decided change; but, on the whole, the man became more weak, whilst the urine remained as full of blood. The man’s diet was good, being meat with some wine, but his appetite was bad. He was admitted April the 9th, it was now May the 7th, and he was ordered Euspinfls styptic. The man gives the foUoAving account of its action :— On the 7th he took three doses at 3, 6, and 9 p.m. respectively. On the 8th, at 9 a.m,, his urine was bloody, but he mentioned to