SUMMARY OP THE RESULTS OP MERCURY AND IODINE. 285 important means in preventing secondary disease, but tlie longer tlie primary disease lasts, and the more the health is re- duced, the more certain also are secondary symptoms, and the worse will often be their character. On considering the vai'ious forms of sj'pliilitic disease which are met with at St. Bar- tholomew’s Hospital, it certainly appears that the mercurial treat- ment adopted in the case of indurated and some forms of super- ficial primary ulcers exercises a decided influence in lessening the chance, as weU as the severity, of secondary disease, but that mercury has very little influence in preventing the occurrence of phagedsenic disease when tliere is a natural or accidental disposition to it. Although merem’y in the phagedeenic disease appears to exer- cise so little influence in preventing secondary disease, yet cases are admitted from time to time in which the employment of very large quantities of meremy for the primary affection has seemed to render the secondary phagedsenic disease more severe. That secondary symptoms wfll never occur when mercury has been employed for primary disease in a complete and proper manner, does not appear to have been ever stated by those who have treated large numbers of patients for many years. The fact evidently is, that, with every precaution, secondary symptoms will sometimes occur, and cannot be always prevented. The disease will some- times run its own course, and no means will do more than relieve the symptoms as they arise. The great mass of patients treated for primary disease by the careful employment of mercury, at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, do not return again for secondary disease, neither are the greater num- ber of patients with secondary affections those who have been treated carefully with mercury for primary disease; the cautious em- ployment of mercury certainly not causing or aggravating the secondary disease, but on the general view seeming to prevent it to a certain degree. The general result of the employment of mercury in fact being, that a great mass of primary disease is thus most leadily cured, that secondary disease is to a certain degree less common, and that when a patient labours under forms of secondary disease to be treated with mercury, that the employment of mercury in such case cures the existing secondary disease, and