6 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. wliicli some delay might well be allowed; yet every now and then a tight small femoral hernia is reduced^ wliilst a flaecid ingidnal rup- ture requires an operation; and a case that promises weU in every way dies, wliilst a patient with a mortified hole in the bowel, or vdth peritonitis at the time of operation, gets quite weU. It might almost be said, that on the one hand there is no one sjunptom, short of commencing coUapse, wdiich absolutely precludes aU hope of success from an operation for hernia, but that at other times death has occurred when every favourable sign was present, and no bad symptom of any kind existed. The means employed 114111 the taxis have been the tobacco enema, ice, and purgative clysters; venesection and the warm bath. A young man, with a recently sti-angulated inguinal hernia, refused to have any operation performed; a tobacco clyster was given without any benefit; the warm bath, bleeding and pui-ga- tives, haidng been already tried. Every tiling failed, and at last the man consented to be operated on, on the third day. Mr. Lawrence operated. The sac contained small intestine and a large mass of omentum, in good condition. The man got quite well. An elderly man was admitted, under Mr. Stanley, with a stran- gulated scrotal hernia, and refused to be operated on. The operation was not very strongly pressed, as the rupture was large, and not very pauifiil, and his symptoms not very m-gent. The tobacco clyster was employed, and ice applied to the rupture. The ruptm-e gTadually went up. The tobacco enema, was a draclim of tobacco to one pint of boihng water, one hah' being given at a tune. The application of ice, with the administration of piu’gative me- dicine, has succeeded with large scrotal and femoral ruptures, when the symptoms were not very urgent, and the rupture bore handhug without much pain. The ice has also been ajiplied with success, when a bit of sometlmig hard, or a fulness of doubtful nature, has remauied after the decided but partial reduction of a rupture. The success of ice is, however, not very great; and in recent cases of small hernia ivitli pain, almost wanting. After the failmu of other means, when tlie patient objects to the opeiation, or the syin])toms are not very urgent, ice has been often tried, but the operation has generally been at last, required. The achninistration of purgatives in tlie following case was