181 AWi’ECTIONS OF MOUTH AND TliAClIEA. very considerable size, and communicated freely with the large trunks aroimd. The large veins wmre in close approximation with the sides of the thyroid and thymus glands. In this case auscultation shewed that the foreign body was at first situated in some place where the iugress of air into every part of the right Imig, except just the apex, was prevented : this could only occiu in the right bronchus, just below where the bronchus lo the right lung is given olf: (it was also in this situation - that the stone was once heard to move.) The statement of the child was, that it was a round stone : tins was rendered more probable by the examination of the chest: if the stone had been small or rough, if it had been a piece of wire or similar foreign body, one cannot conceive how a round tube like the bronchus could be so completely stopped up ; for as the body wmuld then not have corresponded in form with the cavity of the tube, a cer- tain quantity of air would have passed by its sides into all pai’ts of the lung, and respiration would have been audible to a certain degree in the middle and lower lobes. The mobility of the stone is also extremely important. On the third day auscultation shewed it to be situated in the right bronchus, but on the sixth air was admitted into both Imigs equally, and the rhonchus pro- duced was equally audible on both sides: these circumstances could only occm' where the two bronclii were free. The stone was evidently not now in the right bronchus, but was moved from its previous situation, and could only be in the trachea, the calibre of which it did not fit tightly, as the quantity of an admitted into both lungs was considerable. The following notes relating to the anatomy of the trachea, thyroid gland, and vessels of the neck, are placed here, on ac- count of their connection with the subject of the preceding pages. Tlie space between the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage and the upper edge of the isthmus of the thyroid gland, measures in general about a quarter of an inch,. very rarely equals half au inch, and occasionally no free space at all is found. In some few cases an artery of small size runs along the lower edge of the cricoid cartilage, but one of considerable size, and which would bleed freely if divided, generally lies along the upper edge of the