ON HERNIA. 3 A woman, aliout 35 years of age, was operated on by Mr. Lawrence for a strangulated femoral hernia. The sac contained bowel and omentum; a considerable quantity of the latter was removed, and some more sloughed after operation. In about a year this woman was again admitted, and again operated on by Mr. Lawrence. The ruptm’e again contained bowel, and notwith- standing the large mass which had been removed by operation and sloughing, the mass of omentum was still very large indeed. She recovered well. A man, aged about 40, was operated on by Mr. Skey for an inguinal hernia, consisting of bowel and a mass of omentum; the omentum was. left. This man returned in eighteen months with somewhat obscure symptoms, and died. After death the sac was found to contain a small portion of howel high up in the neck of the sac, wMst, from the arch of the stomach to the scrotal cica- trix, to which the omentum was united, the omentum descended like a cord, tightly compressing the bowels against the back of the abdomen and hernial sac. A woman, about 67, was operated on by Mr. Skey for hernia of the right side, having had the left side operated on about twenty months previously by Mr. Vincent. She died. The hernial sac of the left side contained a small portion of reducible omentum. A man, about 40, was operated on by Mr. Stanley for hernia, and again by Mr. Lawrence four years afterwards. The sac con- tained’bowel and adherent omentum, which latter was left. The man got well. Amongst the number of patients in a large hospital who have hernia in addition to their other ailments, it is very rai-e indeed to find one who, having been ruptured for many years, has been really cured. Many leave off the truss, and only suffer from the rupture occasionally; whilst others have a constant degree of hardness or swelling, the difference perhaps depending on the absence or presence of a portion of omentum. In all the four cases just related, omentum was found in the sac on the second operation, and there was no appearance of any probability of closure from it. In the first case the omentum sloughed, and the sac inflamed, yet no closure of the sac occurred.