34 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEEVATIONS IN SITEGERY, lobe about oue-tenth of au inch^ aucl on the lower part of the middle lobe and the lower lobe^ from oiie-quartcr of an inch above, to one inch below, at the base of the lung. This thickened pleura con- sisted of a dense white tissue, not distinguishable into different layers, and was connected with two cavities, one at the back of the heart, of the capacity of a drachm, filled with a substance like wet mortar, doubtfully in its substance, and a second cavity clearly contained in it, opposite the lower lobe of the right lung, capable of containing half an ounce, and filled with a mixture of a gritty and gelatinous substance. The right lung was smah, but healthy in substance, except in a spot of the size of a wal- nut, opposite the cavity in the pleura, wliich lay against the lower lobe of the lung; here the pulmonary tissue was firm, pale, and impendous to air. The left lung was partially adherent, the left pleura contained about ten ounces of serum, ndth udiich the peritoneal cavity was also filled’. The pericardium wns almost universally adherent, but the heart, except slight valvular disease, was nearly healthy. No tuberculous disease existed. This patient was so low when she was admitted, and died so soon, that no note of her case was obtained. The following history was however obtained from her friends, who were found living at Islington. Eighteen years before her death, having always been an unhealthy child, but well formed, she was attacked with scarlatina, which she went tlirough favourably, but on recovering, had a relapse, in which her chest was affected. This affection began with a stitch, and was followed by cough, and the treatment consisted in applying leeches to the chest and bleeding from the arm. She was so ill, that her friends were sent for, and told to come soon, if they wished to see her alive> and her recovery was thought so remark- able, that a magistrate- in the neiglibourhood of Brentford, (well known for lus kindness to the poor) allowed her free access to his private garden to walk in, and permission to eat fruit. Her side on first convalesceiTce was quite straight, but became gradually deformed and drawn in, wliich her friends thought came from lacing too tight. About nine years since, that is, about half-way between her illness and death, her mother describes her as having a cough, the most remarkable circumstance attending which was