INJURIES OF THE BONES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 59 tholomefl'^s Hospital, under the care of Mr. Lawrence, labouring under a dislocation of the head of the right humerus into the axilla. The ordinary signs of dislocation were present, the head of the bone being apparently on the axillary edge of the subsca- pular fossa, whilst the distance from the acromion to the outer condyle was lengthened by about three-quarters of an inch. Six weeks since she fell down, with her arm thrown forwards, on her hand. The bone slipped out of its place, and she was seen by a medical man, who tried to reduce it on the heel for two hours, but in vain. Till one week before admission she suflered much from pain in the shoulder, with numbness in the arm; tliis jiain has, however, latterly become somewhat less. The arm was extended in an almost horizontal hne for about twenty minutes, with the pulleys, without the least effect. She was now laid on her back on a bed, and the arm extended obhquely upwards and backwards, when the head of the bone slipped, in about a minute and a liaK, into the glenoid cavity; but on the arm being brought to the side, it shpped out agaiu. This ocem-red twice, when, at last, on the head of the humerus passing into the glenoid cavity, the hand was passed into the axiUa, pressed upwards and outwards, and used as a fulcrum to turn the bone on, whilst the arm was depressed, and brought weU across the chest; the head of the humerus being thus kept at the upper and back part of the joint. She stayed in the house a few days; the bone remained in its right position, and the arm was gradually recovering all its powers slowly. The bone in this case shpped out twice at the lower pai’t of the glenoid cavity, and was retained at last by keeping it up against the upper and back part of the joint. The following dissection* shews a condition of parts which presented just iujm-y enough to account for this peculiarity:— " In an old woman, who died in the hospital last August, we had an opj)ortunity of dissecting a dislocation of the shoulder- joint, which had remained unreduced for evidently a very long period. The long head of the biceps adhered to the groove in wliich it hes. Tlie lower part of the glenoid cavity had been * Professor Syme, in Edinbiu'gh Medical and Siu'gical Journal, vol. ssxv'. j). 241.