ON HERNIA. 21 The woman was in a very low and feeble condition. She had been ruptured some years on the right side, but she had been always able to return the swelling. Seven days since, after some pain of the bowels, constipation commenced, wliich had lasted to the present time. She had also been sick. Although great doubt existed as to the cause of the symptoms, there was just enough doubt as to the nature of the swelling in tlie right groin to render an operation arlvisable. She refused to be operated on then, but consented on the following day. When the sac on the right side had been opened, no intestine was found in it, but only a small portion of the lower end of the great omentum adherent to the sac. Tliis was divided and retiu-ned. She gradually died on the following day. On examination, the bowels were found to be much distended with air. The lower part of the great omentum was fixed by firm old adhe- sions round the right femoral ring, but did not close it. On the left side the omentum was also adlierent by old adhesions round the ring into the hernial sac. By this fixing of the omentum the bowels were to a certain degree compressed towards the spine. On dividing the omentum the small intestines were brought into view ; the duodenum and the upper part of the jejunum were dis- tended with air, this distension terminating abruptly on the left side of the spine, just where the mesentery begins, at which part the intestine was twisted beliind the mesentery. On separating the bowel, a recent ulcer was found perforating the intestine, close to the part at which the intestine was twisted, and where the con- traction and distension met. The following dissection shews a position of the omentum wliicb had not caused any inconvenience, but which might have given rise to a case resembhng those just described :— A man was dissected, labouring under an oblique inguinal hernia of the left side, descending into the scrotum. On examining the hernia, no bowel was contained in the sac, but a very large |)iece of the great omentum, which could not be returned. No great thickeiung of the omentum, nor any adhesion in any part of the sac, or of its neck, v'as jiresent. On opening the abdomen the ring was quite free, and allowed the entrance of the finger readily; the omentum was, however, closely