ABSCESSES OF THE ABDOJtEN, HAND, ETC. 195 1841, wlien the knee, ankle, and foot of the right leg, the left foot and left hand, became red, swelled, and painful. In the space of a week the extreme phalanx of the middle finger turned blue, and as the pain of the swelhug became intense, he applied cold water continually, dm’ing a whole night, with relief to the pain. In the morning the blueness had extended to such a degree that he was afraid to continue the application of cold water. In a few days the palmar surface of the fingers became red, the pain completely ceased, and a fiuid began to ooze from around the nails. On the 19th of May (one month from the commencement of his illness), he was admitted into the hospital, ■ndth the four fingers of his left hand dead up to the metacarpus, and the two phalanges of the thumb in a similar condition; a line of separation having formed between the dead and living parts, especially on the dorsal aspect. The man was placed on a nomishing diet, with tonic medicine. The phalanges of the finger and thumb, and the distal ends of the metacarpal bones, separated, and the man left the hospital about July 30th, with the wound healed, but his hand consisting only of a pahn with a Httle bit of thumb. He has often been seen since, remaining in much the same condition, but has had another attack of mild gout in the feet, which however yielded to col- chicum. 2. A healthy, but perhaps shghtly feeble girl, of nineteen years of age, was admitted under Mr .Vincent. About the 1st of April, 1844, she felt a degree of pain and numbness in one foot, one knee, and one wrist, resembling rheumatism, for which adments she was a patient at a charitable institution in her neighboui’hood, and bought a bottle of liniment at a shop. Tliis liniment she rabbed on her arm and hand. The hand she describes as being wliite and pale when she commenced to rub it, but that it gradually in three days became black and dead, and that the liniment rapidly made the hand raw. On April 19th she apphed at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, with the thumb and fingers of the left hand dead up to the middle of the proximal phalanges, with a well-marked line of separation 'forming between the dead and living parts. The aim was warm and quite natural in every respect, but the radial and ulnar arteries, as well as the brachial artery, below its middle