246 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEllVATIONS IN SDUGEIIY, Notwitlistanding all care in the employment of mercury and iodine in the treatment of venereal ulcers of the skiuj they are sometimes very hard to cure, and one medicine fails after another, till the case appears quite desperate. When ordinary means fail, and remedies begin to be tried because they occasionally do good, no medicine is more deserving of trial than corrosive subhmate in the proportion of one-twelfth of a grain tlnree times a day continued for some weeks. After the employment of iodine and mercury according to the common rules, and their failure, this medicine sometimes produces a most marked effect, and the remains of the partially cured disease are gradually removed. This rehef is not only obtained in cases of ulceration of the skin, but in some obstinate cases of the papular eruption. Some few opportunities have occun-ed of examining persons who have died with the remains of sypluhtic ulceration, and hi whom the obstinacy of the disease was partially accounted for:— 1. A yomig prostitute was admitted time after time into St. Bartholomew's Hospital with foul phagedasnic sores, and disease of the throat. She used to get better, and then return to her old habits, until her disease agaui obliged her to apply again for rehef. At last she gradually failed, and died with ulceration of the skin and tlu’oat. On dissection there was no evident internal change to account for her death, and she seemed to have gradually died from the exhaustion produced by her repeated ailments. 2.3. Two women were in St. Bartholomew’s Hospital with large foul ulcers of the genital organs, accompanied vdth very consider- able oedema of the suiTounding parts. No medicines were suffi- cient to cure them, and they left only relieved. In one there was a cavity in the apex of the lung; in the other there was occasional haemoptysis, with evident disease of the heart, and less certain disease of the lungs. 4. A young woman was in St. Bartholomews Hospital for the space of more than a year labouring under phagedaenic ulcers of the legs and arms. She took one medicine after another, but nothing was sufficient to cure her : at last she became dropsical, and died. The kidneys, lungs, and heart, presented nothing