AFFECTIONS OF JOINTS. 11J5 lateral ligament elongated from the oblique position of the phalanges. The two sesamoid bones were twisted, so that the internal sesamoid bone lay on the outer part of the under surface of the first metatarsal bone, whilst the external sesamoid bone was drarni up between the two first metatarsal bones. AH the muscles of the foot were fiabby and weak, but none particularly so. The left foot presented the same peculiarity as the right, but in a less degree, the neck of the left thigh-bone being also broken. The chief point of interest, as nothing probably would have remedied such an advanced case as tliis, is to ascertain what was the cause of the distortion of the toes. As regards the first toe especially, it is important to notice the change in situation of the outer sesamoid bone, which shding up between the first and second toes pressed the distal extremity of the first metatai’sal bone inwards, wliilst the flexor tendon shding outwards pulled the phalanges of the great toe in that direction, and caused an angle at the junction of the phalanx and metatarsal bone. Tlie displacement of the 2d, 3d, 4th, and 5th toes appears to take place in the following manner, The first phalanx is elevated and extended on the extremity of its metatarsal bone, so that it forms a more or less obtuse angle with it, whilst the second phalanx is bent on the first, and the third on the second. In this manner a more or less acute angle is formed on the dorsal surface of the toe at the junction of the first and second phalanx, on which a corn frequently grows, whilst the extreme phalanx, if bent upon the second, touches the ground with its point or even with its nad. On examining a toe in this condition the extensor tendon is sometimes so tight as to make a prominent line under the skin, and to feel painful to the patient himself. In advanced cases the flexor tendons also become tense under the toe, but in the early period of this distortion such is not generally the case. The joints of the toe are in general quite natural in structure; but where the distortion from neglect has not been attended to, the proximal end of the first phalanx of the toe is carried up on the upper surface of the metatarsal bone, so as to be placed firmly on it almost at a right angle, and to be seated in a depression of the bone itself. The second toe is generally placed so that its distal extremity