52 CLINICAL COLLPX'TIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SURGERY, ankle joints, the limb lies evenly either on the hack or side, unless the fracture has taken some particular direction. The foUowdng plan I have often seen employed, by Mr, Law- rence’s directions, with the greatest benefit, m cases where the leg was inclined to come forwards after fractures or injm’ies low down in the hmb. The leg is placed in the bent position on the outside, with a common side splint placed above and below, slightly hol- lowed out to fit the leg. In addition to these, two straight splints are used, padded on one side, one of sufficient length to extend from the patella to the upper part of the lower third of the leg, the other long enough to reach from the hollow of the knee to beyond the heel. If the straps be now passed round the leg, in- cluding the shorter of the two straight splints on the front, and the longer splint on the back of the leg, along nith the two hollow sphnts on the upper and mider side, the tibia and fibirla above the fracture will be pushed backwards, whilst the foot with the part below the fracture is pressed forwards. In this manner the tendency of the tibia to pass forwards, after simple dislocation or fracture near the ankle, is effectually prevented. In the following cases of fracture some reason existed in one instance, and none in the other, for the irregular union. A man, aged 60—70, broke liis leg, and died in about eight weeks. The tibia was broken about its middle, the fibula at its inferior tliii-d; the two portions of tibia could not be rendered parallel, although the limb could be extended to its natm-al length. The cancellous tissue of each extremity of bone was rendered compact, but no de- cided union had taken place between the two opposed extremities; the cancellous tissue of one end was opposed to the compact of the other bone; the limb was only slightly united, but as long as the opposite one. There was no apparent cause for the obliquity, only the muscles were strong during life, and when the lunb w;as extended, violent spasms immediately took place. Here there was no very evident cause for the displacement. In the following case the cause was more apparent, or perhaps pro- bable. An old woman, with flat feet, broke her leg in ISIO-lSIl, at the junction of the middle and lower thirds; the leg united firmly, but in bad position. The lower parts of bone were drawn upwaiis, backwards, and outwards. This displacement was just