MERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 24*9 at other times its variations are not of so mild a character, and from common inflammation of these parts foul ragged ulcers of a tolerable depth occasionally occur. The excavated ulcer of the tonsil, with its sharp weU-defined margin and buff-coloured sur- face, is less modified than the other forms of ulceration of the tliroat, the real characters being generally well marked, and not commonly accompanied with disease of the neighbouring parts. Ulceration of the pharynx is sometimes confined to a simple ulce- rative -process, but such is not always the case; at times, and especially in severe cases, there is more or less degree of slough- ing of the parts, and the ulcerated surface of the pharynx is covered by a foul yellow substance of a firm adhesive nature, which appears to be the discharge of the sore mixed with some slough. Patients laboming under mild secondary disease, as the papular eruption, and but sHghtly reduced in strength, are liable to super- ficial inflammation of the mucous membrane of the fauces, accom- panied with a slight degree of fever. The tonsils are swelled and inflamed, whilst the uvula and soft palate present an oedematous appearance, the pharynx having at the same time a dry glazed appearance. Although this form of disease occurs in general with mild symptoms, yet such is not invariably the case, as pa- tients labouring under ulcerations of the skin and scalp, with pains of the bones, occasionally present also an erysipelatous affection of the mouth and fauces closely resembling this. There is an inflammatory affection of the mucous membrane of the fauces which occurs occasionally, and deserves mention; tliis affection consists in redness of the uvula, soft palate, and posterior wall of the pharynx, accompanied with numerous elevations of an opaque white colour, minute size, and closely aggregated together. In some parts of the soft palate these vesicles are so closely set as almost to cover the entire surface. On the posterior wall of the pharynx they are less closely placed, and are of a lai’ger size. This condition of parts has been seen in connection with a similai’ affection of the lining membrane of the eyehds, as well as with ulcerations of the integument and scalp. Simple inflammation of the fauces, if not subsiding gradually, terminates generally in excoriation or superficial ulceration; at