J[ERCURY AND IODINE IN ^TiNEllEAL DISEASES. 271 found to present here and there a few papular elevations^ which very soon form small yellow pustules or rdcers, these being situated most commonly on the inside of the lower hd. These papules are a continuation of those of the skin^ and in addition to the incon- venience arising from the inflammation of the part, cause great annoyance by their mechanical irritation; occasionally, however, the conjunctiva is simply inflamed, and does not present any dis- tinct ulceration, or small yellow heads. The inconvenience even in this latter case is considerable, but not at all equal to that accompanying the existence of distinct papules. This affection causes great annoyance, but is not attended with danger to the eye. The papules form small ulcers, wliich do not become large, but heal leaving no scar or mark of any kind. One set of papules often succeeds another, and thus the inflamed and pauiful affection of the eye is kept up for some time. The affection of the conjunctiva generally occurs at or soon after the fii’st appearance of the papular eruption, and not in its later stage. It is also more or less likely to occur ac- cording as the skin of the face is affected or not. In addition to the treatment of the eruption, of which this forms a part, the apphcation of leeches to the lower hds is attended with the most decided rehef to the pain, as well as to the constant rubbing sensation wliich the papules cause in the eye. A few leeches generally afford more comfort than any local application. Iodine and mercury have no particular influence on tliis affec- tion of the conjunctiva distinct from their general action on the eruption of the skin. Although these means have no decided in- fluence for good on this affection, yet they certainly do no harm, and may be employed if necessary during its existence, for other symptoms of syphihs existing at the same time. These cases of affection of the conjunctiva generally do well ; but such is not always the case. At times they are very tedious, and difficult to cure. After the pustules of the conjunctiva have subsided, and the papular eruption of the skin has become pale and very slight in degree, the eyes remain painful, and extremely irritable; so painful, indeed, on exposure to the light, as to re- semble in this peculiarity the extreme irritability of strumous ophthalmia. The whole conjunctiva at the same time is very vas-