21.4 CLIJ^ICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEllVATIONS IN SURGERY. ing sores, appears to act more beneficially than when mercury is employed in the form of ointment; it is applied more easily and eciuably, and only needs occasional renewing. The black and yellow wash are both thus employed : whilst, however, the latter is generally applied to ulcerations of the integuments in secon- dary syphihtic affections, the former is generally applied to piimary ulcerations of the genital organs and parts round. Tor these reasons the application of mercury to the primary sore, in the ulcerated stage, is best performed by employing that substance in solution, as in that form it comes into accurate contact with the diseased surface. '\\Tien, however, the ulceration has healed, the employ- ment of mercurial lotions is not attended with such decided benefit, on account of the entire condition of the skin over the indurated part. The existence of an indurated cicatrix after the healing of a primary sore must always be a source of anxiety as long as it remains, inasmuch as it is as really a part of the disease as the ulcer was, and is also very liable to be followed by secondary syonptoms. These symptoms are not always of the same kind, sometimes consisting of large semicircular ulcers on the trunk and limbs, whilst at other times the scaly eruption, with ulcera- tion of the comers of the mouth and tonsils, as well as excoriation of the umbilicus, are met with. Ou these accounts it is advisable to remove the induration of a sore as completely and as soon as possible. To indurations on the mucous membrane or integuments of the genital organs, after all important inflammation has subsided, the strong mercui’ial ointment may be applied with the greatest ad- vantage. If a portion of the ointment be occasionally rubbed on the hard part, and a piece of leather covered with it be con- stantly applied, a decided diminution is sometimes observed to occur in the size of the part. When, however, the skin is thick, and the indm’ation old, the assistance derived from the application of mercury in this manner is often very shght indeed, and without the internal use of mercury no change is effected in the pai-t. The friction of the ointment sometimes causes iuflammation and consequent suppuration in these indurations, which, though in- conveniencing the patient for the time, assists materially in the