ON HEllNIA. the medical treatment as with the couditioii of the patient. The habits and accidental condition of patients with hernia, are some- times, however, very disadvantageous to any serious operation. Of tliree cases of umbilical hernia, one laboured under dropsy, and another was in her third month of pregnancy. Of the other cases, one woman, though young, appeared so utterly broken down by want and poverty, as to appear hardly sensible of her condition. In one case the operation was followed by delirium tremens, and the habits of another man were deseribed as con- sisting in living on rum and porter for weeks together. It is surely not to be wondered at, that in cases of such a nature, and admitted at so late a period, the average mortality after a gi’eat surgical operation shoidd be found so great. AIHien a patient with strangulated hernia is admitted, it is generally j)retty clear, from the general features of the case, whe- ther any delay can be allowed, as well as whether the taxis may be regularly applied. There is no doubt as little handling as possible is an excellent tiling, if the patient has to be operated on; but reduction compared with an operation is such an advantage, that it is generally tried. The taxis having been tried once, is a great inducement not to try it again. If it has been done once weU, there is little to be gained by it j if it has been tried often, and in a forcible manner, it is not a very encouraging circumstance, or an inducement to repeat it. There are two classes of patients who admit of no delay, if the ruptm’e does not seem likely to be reduced at once. Patients with recent small raptm’cs, which are intensely painful when handled. Old worn-out people, or middle-aged persons with old constitu- tions, who look very ill, have moderate-sized ruptures and a white clammy tongue, with very few and often mild symptoms. These persons, as soon as they have symptoms, often sink most rapidly. In the great majority of cases, an attempt at reduction is made before operating. One case differs so much from another, that a general rule can hardly be drawn, as to the projniety of attempting the reduction or not. Certain cases might be placed at one end of a scale, as rcciuiring an immediate operation, and others, in