ON FEACTUKES OP THE UIBS, LOWER JAW, AND PELVIS. 27 crack, like a rib breaking, sounded from the direction of the chest: the humerus was reduced, and nothing happened wrong in the chest; but there seemed to be little doubt that a rib had broken from the simple pressure of the foot. Although the ribs may be broken to a very great extent with impunity, although the pleura is often quite entire over a frac- tured rib, and although the lung may escape wounding even when it is united to the broken rib by old adhesions, yet in every one of these cases death may ensue from some peculiarity of the frac- ture, or from bad consequences resulting, even though the fracture has not been accompanied with the ordinary degree of injury. In ausculting cases of broken ribs which are doing weU, the diminu- tion in the quantity of moving air on the injured side is very marked, and thus it may readily be conceived how much addi- tional injnr}'^ to breathing a fiacture of ribs on both sides of the chest may cause. It is not at all uncommon also for the same ribs to break both beliind and in front, and then the broken ribs sometimes fall on to the lung in mass, and compress it to a certain degree. The simple fracture of the ribs, unaccompanied by laceration of the pleura, may be followed by fatal inflammation of the pleura and lung. An unliealthy brewer's man was pressed between a wheel and a wall, and broke his ribs. He died with the signs of inflammation of the lungs. On examination four ribs were found broken before and behind on the right side, whilst a large quantity of blood was found eflused generally under the pleura costalis, without injury to the pleura itself. The pleura was, however, reddened, and two ounces of serum were effused into its cavity. The right lung was pushed forv'ards, so as to touch the mesial line, apparently from the compression of the ribs which had fallen in on it. The right lung, in its lower and part of tlie middle- lobe, was inflamed and impervious to air : the left lung was healthy. Children are not very liable to fracture of tlie ribs; partly be- cause they are less exposed than labouring persons to severe blows and accidents, but more especially from the softness and elasticity of their ribs, which yield readily and resume again their natural