AFFECTIONS OP MOUTH AND TRACHEA. 179 common ; thirdly, the foreign body comes up at once, and this is but rare. Dissection shows what a cough it is, for but a few minutes or hours are sufficient to produce extensive emphysema of both lungs. A pill has been known to catch in the ventricle of the larynx, and the child to struggle for a few minutes and die; or, whilst taking some liquid food, to hiccup and die, or, to give a catch in its breath, and, cougliing from time to time, to die in twenty hours. In the first case dissection has shoAvn the pill to be in the larynx; in the second, some pap, and in the third, a bone to have passed into the trachea. The following case is given at length from its interest, as well as on account of the complete evidence of the stone existing: — A robust httle girl, four years of age, was admitted under Mr. Stanley’s care, labouring under violent fits of cough, accompanied with great blueness of the skin, but no expectoration, except occa- sionally a few drops of blood. The fits of cough were so violent as to produce faintness, and one wliicli occurred whilst she was wait- ing in the ward seemed to threaten hfe whilst it lasted. The child was quite free from fever, or any general uneasiness. Her mother stated, that three days since, wliilst playing in a field, she was seized vfith a cough so violent as to attract the attention of the person walking with her. The cliild stated that she had swal- lowed a stone, and described it as a round “ vinegar stone.” The cough had recurred every day since in very severe paroxysms. Auscultation: Left lung admits air every where without any unnatural sound, but the breathing is so loud as to indicate by itself a probabihty of stoppage to respiration in some other part. The right lung admits air only in a small part of the upper lobe; not the least air can be detected moving in the right lung beyond the first division of the bronchus, close to the bifurcation of the trachea. In the right bronchial tube a loud rhonchus is audible, loudest close to the trachea, in which situation a sound similar to that produced by the motion of some solid body was once heard immediately before a cough. Percussion elicits a good and equal sound from both sides of the chest.