ON HERNIA. 7 attended with the greatest benefit:—A middle-aged^ man was admitted, under Mr. Lawrence, uath a good-sized scrotal rupture, recently strangulated. The warm bath was tried, without any benefit. A dose of senna mixture was then given, and the ruptiu-e went up of itself. Purgative enemata do not appear to effect any tiling more than purgative medicines in strangulated hernia; and, if the quantity of faecal matter returned with them be considered as a test in any de- gree of the previous state of the canal, they are attended with great inconvenience. Wlien the taxis has been tried, even if nothing has gone up, the ruptiu’e often seems to be a little smaller, or rather less tight at the neck, and the patient generally inchnes to the favourable view; these doubts would not be considered as any- thing, generally, but if at the same time the enema is loaded with fecal matter, there is a great inducement to delay. Such is the occasional inconvenience of enemata, where notliing has been re- turned ; and when the bowel is pervious, the fecal evacuations occurring from pm’gative medicine ai-e a much less valuable test of the condition of the parts, where enemata have been given at the same time, than where they have been omitted. Of all the means wliich have beeji tried, none have been at all comparable for success to the taxis employed in the warm bath, with or without venesection. Independent of a certain degree of ease which the patient feels in the warm bath, it allows of the ruptiue being handled with less pain, and of bemg examined more com- pletely. To the production of a more or less complete degree of faint- ing, the success of the warm bath appears, however, to be chiefly owing. The degree of faintness produced by the warm bath is gene- rally incomplete, and bleeding from the arm is often on tliis account employed. The value of bleeding to fainting from the arm, in reference to the chance of reduction, being thus so great, it is of some importance to consider an objection which has been made to it, namely, that peritonitis after the operation is much more com- mon, where the patient^s have been already bled from the arm before the operation, than where no blood has been taken. Ex- perience unfortunately show’s, that- perilonilis is an occasional attendant on the mere operation foj’ licrnia, whether bleeding has