190 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUllOERY. the fascia transversalis and peritoneum, extending from the middle line along the whole length of the rectus round the right side of the abdomen to the outer edge of the kidney, thus dissecting the surfaces of the rectus and transversalis muscles. The inner wall of the abscess formed by peritoneum, and raised from its attacliments, was slightly adherent to the omentum and the mass of small in- testines, which were entirely shut out from it by the peritoneum. In the bottom of this cavity, which was filled by a mixture of pus and faecal fluid, the caecum and first fom- inches of the colon were situated. In these portions of bowel were four large apertures, with flocculent edges, capable of admitting the forefinger. The adjacent mucous membrane was quite healthy, except in some small round spots, where it was very thin, as if a perforation would take place here also from without inwards; the muscular and cellular coats at these parts being completely destroyed. In the case just related, the disease, though limited in one direc- tion, extended far and wide in another, and destroyed life prin- cipally by the extensive suppuration which occmi-ed. The follow- ing case illustrates the extent to which disease of the parts in the abdomen may proceed without destroying life at an early period, and how both the urinary and digestive apparatus may in the same person have a common external opening without fatal eflusion occurring:— A man, only 25 years of age, who had been at one time a medical student, was carried into the ward, under Mr. Lawrence^s care, in a state of low fever. His features were hollow and slrrunk, his tongue nearly dry, his pulse between 120 and 130, and his whole frame emaciated. The lower part of the abdomen, and especially the parts about the right ihac fossa, were very painfid. The urine was voided naturally, and the bowels had been slightly open on the morning of admission. A large abscess was situated be- tween the umbilicus and os pubis, marked on its most ])rominent part by two sloughs. At one of these sloughs the abscess burst soon after admission, giving exit to tliree pints of a yellow fluid, of an intensely foetid, as well as fcEcal odour, but not containing any sohd matter. The following was his history. Pour weeks since he was jerked off an omnibus upon the back of a dray-horse, and believes that he 1