IN-TURIES OP THE BONES OP THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 53 that which the perouei muscles would cause. This woman had flat feet—a deformity accompanied with tense perouei, and for which they are often divided. Could these peroiiei muscles be the cause in this case ? She mifortuuately put it to a partial test. In 1S44-, she broke the other leg, but high up in the upper third, and consequently out of reach of the peronei. No displacement occiuTed here. Amongst the subjects to which Mr. Stanley particularly directs the attention of the pupils, there are few on which more stress is laid than the diagnosis and treatment of difficult cases of frac- ture of the limbs. Amongst these points are included, firstly, the importance of considering the degree of pain in the situation of a supposed fracture, and its great value in cases where crepitus is absent. Secondly, the necessity of bearing in mind to how great a degree many fractiues gradually right themselves, and the httle that is often gained by attempts to plaec every thing straight at an early period ; and thirdly, the importance of firm oedema rapidly forming over a supposed fracture. These are points not simply told in the clinical theatre, but shewn as the return of the accident weeks successively comes round. The degree of pain caused by the necessary examination of an injured limb sometimes assists in distinguishing a fracture from a simple bruise. Although a mere strain or bruise is occasionally accompanietl with the greatest surtering, yet extreme pain on the slightest degree of motion, more especially when that motion is not accompanied ndth exten- sion of any ligaments, is in itself a most important indication in favour of the existence of fracture. This extreme pain, and the rapidly fonning but well-defined ccdema, arc more frequently found in injury of the bones which lie superficially, than in fractiues amongst the deeper seated parts; and if any bones w^ere selected as those in which fracture was attended with extreme pain on slight motion, the metacarpal and metatarsal bones, with their phalanges, or the lower ends of the radius, tibia, and fibula, might be chosen. Where the pain is of a pricking character, or like that ])roduced by the presence of a foreign body wounding the pait, the character of the pain is distinguished from the dull ach- ing of a sprain, and is in favour of fracture; but in the great majority of injuiies, where aiiy doubt of its nature exists, the