SUMMARY OR THE RESULTS OF MERCURY AND IODINE. 283 cautious employment of mercmy in tlie treatment of a great mass of superficitd sores and simple glandular swellings, whether sup- purating or not, is attended with no danger, and leads to a good general result by curing a certain number of cases which simple means hai-dly touch. In acute inflammation of the glands, in acutely inflamed irritable ulcers and sloughing phagedaena, the employment of mercury is unattended with benefit, may do harm, and by taking the place of appropriate treatment is to be avoided. In the treatment of warts and condylomata the employment of mer- cury only needs consideration so far as the disease, of which they may form a part, is benefited or not by that means. With regard to the benefit derived from mercury in secondary affections the following appears to be the general rule. The scaly eruption, the excavated ulcer of the tonsil, the syphilitic sweUing of the testicle, the excavated ulcer of the tongue, the acute ulcers of the edges of the eyehds, iritis, the purulent discharge from the external auditory meatus, and some cases of pains in the limbs, require the employment of mercury in a decided manner. The same remedy may generally be employed in smaller quantity with the greatest benefit in cases of papular eruption unaccompanied with fever, in those forms of the tubercular and pustular eruption winch have a tendency to desquamate rather than to suppurate and form ulcers, and also in those cases where numerous small secondary ulcers occur on the body of persons not much reduced in health. The fissured tongue, and the sypliihtic ulceration round the nail, are benefited at times by mercury, but not always. The employment of mercurial fumigation in cases of pustular eruption, phagedaenic ulcers of the skin, and foul sloughy ulceration of the pharynx, is attended occasionally with the greatest benefit; but it is a hazai-dous means, and requires the closest watching. Such is the benefit derived from mercury when employed for the cure of existing symptoms; but another question of equal im- portance remains yet to be considered. The failui-e of health, and the occurrence of constitutional symptoms after well-marked primary disease, the occurrence of symptoms of syphihs in manied women, and the birth of unhealthy cliildren from women who, themselves well, had married persons supposed to have been thorougldy cured of their disease,—tliese circumstances ])oint to