252 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBEUVATIONS IN SUUGEUY. • tion of the mucous membrane of the fauces and palate. The appearance of the disease, with its swelled mucous membrane and utter absence of any acute character, suggests at first sight the probability of any improvement being slow; and experience fully confirms these expectations. Mercm’y has been sufficiently tried, and does not seem to have any decided effect. Two very well marked cases have occurred at different times in St. Bartholo- mew’s Hospital, which have been benefited chiefly by the repeated application of the nitrate of silver to the part, and the employment of quinine. Wliere the quinine was employed, there were general indications for its use; yet such was the benefit from its employ- ment, that unless some objection on account of the condition of the patient exists, the trial of it is certainly advisable. These elevated patches of membrane sometimes resemble very closely the rhagades digitorum, on wliich the nitrate of silver acts so benefi- cially, and apparently in a very considerable degree from keeping the parts dry. It would be hard to keep the mouth dry; but the nitrate of silver, at the same time that it arrests the growth of these structures, acts on their surface, and covers them with a thin layer of hardened substance instead of the tliick wliite substance wliich they commonly present. The cases of superficial ulceration of the fauces require much the same treatment as the papular eruption; that is, they very often cease under common care, and the absence of any errors in habits or diet, which may render them unyielding. In some cases, however, as in the papular eruption, the simple means only help the cure on a certain way, and a part still remains um-elieved. In removing these remains mercury is more useful and certain than any other means; and even in cases of very long standing its use is often attended Avith the greatest benefit. The mild employment of mercury in the greater nmnber of cases of ulcerated tliroats connected udth syphilis, is on the whole attended vith success, and more rarely followed by disappoint- ment than any other plan of treatment. In the excavated ulcer of the fauces and tonsils, the employment of mercury is attended Avith the greatest benefit. Under its influence ulcers of a very considerable size assume a healthy surface, and rapidly cicatrize ; thdr cicatrization under these circumstances being more complete