MERCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 229 copiously. AAnieii freely opened, the abscesses do not appear to be delayed in healing by the previous careful employment of mer- cury, but heal well and rapidly. The glandular sweUings in ivomen and thin persons more fre- quently yield to this plan of treatment than in fat and heavy persons. In fat, coarse people, advanced in life, the employment of mercurial frictions is sometimes followed by fever, accompanied with very severe constitutional disturbance, and the formation of a large abscess in the groin, filled with dark foetid pus mixed with blood. Ill the majority of cases the gums are more or less affected by the employment of mercury, at the same time that the swelhug is diminished; yet such is not invariably the case. In some in- stances the employment of meremial frictions appears to increase the pain and swelling of the part. On the omission of these, the increased redness will often be found to subside, and a rapid im- provement to take place in the part, without any particular treat- ment being adopted. Amongst the poor of lai'ge toinis, who cannot spare time for the cure of then slighter ailments, one disease sometimes begins before they have quite got rid of the remains of another. Thus at large hospitals patients are met' with from time to time labouring under the constitutional symptoms of the venereal disease, and still having in their groins the unhealed fissures and sinuses of primary disease. AVhere the constitutional symptoms are of such a kind as to require the use of iodine, the remains of the old disease are equally benefited by it. A form of bubo ocem's occasionally of so serious a description as to threaten hfe, depending in some cases on the peculiarity of the individual or of the disease, and in others on the nature of the treatment. AVhere mercury has been employed in large quan- tities, and for a considerable period, without any improvement in the disease, with rapid failure in health and exposure to bad air, there can be no doubt that many jiersons are likely to die, and often have done so; but such indiscriminate employment of a useful means forms not the least objection to its use under proper regulations, nor does it show that the sevei’e form of bubo which residts from such treatment is produced by mercury alone. This