no CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. No. Sex. Agre. Lungs. Small Intestines. Caecum and Colon. Rectum. 1 Male 19 Cavities Ulcerated Ulc. to desc. col. No ulcer 2 Male 19 Cavities No ulcer No ulcer No ulcer 3 Male 54 Cavities Ulcerated Ulc. to sigm. flex. No ulcer 4 Female — Cavities Ulcerated Ulcerated No ulcer 5 Male 25 Cavities Ulcerated Caecum ulcerated Ulcerated 6 Female 45 Tubercles No ulcer Trausv. col. ulc. Almost healthy 7 Male 25 Cavities No ulcer No ulcer One ulcer, i in. from anus 8 Female — Cavities No ulcer Ulcerated No ulcer 9 Male 30 Cavities Ulcerated Caecum ulcerated No ulcer 10 Male 24 Cavities Ulcerated No ulcer No ulcer 11 Male 25 Cavities No ulcer No ulcer No ulcer 12 Female 38 Tubercles No ulcer No ulcer No rdeer 13 Male 43 Cavities Ulcerated Ulcerated Ulcerated Wliat is tlie result here shewn ? In three cases the intestiues were entirely healthy, wliilst in two they were ulcerated throughout. In four cases the small intestines and colon were ulcerated, in one the small intestines- only, in two the colon only, and in one the rectum only, but in that case the ulcer was just in the situation of fistula. Let us now turn to diseases of the spine:— In twenty-four patients with supposed disease of some part of the spine, or lumbar abscess, or both, the chest was carefully exa- mined. Of these twenty-four, the chest appeared to he sound in eighteen; in the remaining six the following signs of thoracic disease were found :— One had the physical signs of a cavity in the apex of the left lung. In tliree, crude tubercles were found in both lungs after death. Two had suffered from haemoptysis; and in these two cases the apex of the left Imig admitted less air than the right. The resemblance between the cases of fistula and the disease of the spine, in reference to the thoracic affection, is remarkable. In both tubercular disease occurred occasionaUj^, and then of a chronic form, and in both the fistula and disease of the spine ap- peared to commence whilst the tubercles were crude.