OK HERKIA. 17 two testicles equal in size, and tlie riglit inguinal ring larger than the opposite. Of the four cases just related, the two first illustrate the occur- rence of symptoms more or less closely resembling those of stran- gulated hernia, occurring in persons labouring under reducible hernia,—this hernia, however, having no part in the affection; whilst the two last shew the occasional difficulty in judging of the necessity of an immediate operation, the question being so finely balanced, that an immediate operation might have been perhaps performed or omitted with equal propriety in either case. The four following cases illustrate a question of much greater difficulty, being instances where an operation is generally urgently de- manded, but where httle hope can be entertained of a good result. The principal features of these cases consist in the existence of the symptoms of strangulation in a patient labouring under a hernial protrusion, to which the pain is referred, but wliich, on operation, is found to contain notlung, or an imperfectly strangulated bowel, the cliief strangulation arising from a band of omentum passing down to the abdominal parietes, or to the neck of the sac itself, and thus compressing the bowel in the abdominal cavity, or in the neck of the sac.* A man, aged about 48 years, was admitted, under Mr. Vincent, into St. Bartholomew’s Hospital, April 30, 1842, labom-ing under a strangulated scrotal hernia of the right side, which had de- scended a few hours before. The patient had some sickness, Avith constipation. He was bled and put in the warm bath; the hernia was then partially reduced, and rendered quite flaccid, and in the evening it was nearly all returned. On the second day he slept at times, had little pain in the ab- domen, but was still sick and constipated. On the third day he was sick, the abdomen was distended, and no evacuations had occurred. The hernial protrusion existed to a certain degree, but was flaccid. On the morning of the fourth day he died. * A. paper on this class of cases, by Dr. Schuli, is contained in " Medeciu. Jalirbiicli. Wien.” Feb. 1844. C