CIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 103 to stand without support; he was also extremely pale, and some- what emaciated. The siglit of both eyes was so completely gone that he could only partially distinguish light from dark, without any power of distinguishing the position of the strong light, or the windows of the wai-d. The eyes presented nothing unusual, except an abnost motionless condition of the pupils, v'hicli were midway between dilatation and contraction. The conjunctiva of one eye was ecchymosed from a recent blow on the forehead, but the most troublesome symptom of tliis patient was incessant vomiting, wliich induced him to apply for relief. The food and nourishment taken by him were rejected unaltered witliin a few minutes; there was frequent vomiting duiing the day, ivith nausea, and a tendency to vomit when the thoughts of food occurred to his mmd. He stated that seven months since he was out of work, and went about the country to obtain some ; he walked over various parts of England, in want of food and clothes, as well as almost every necessary of life, being utterly unable to find work for four months. At the end of this period, three months since, he found liis sight to be dim, and therefore applied to a medical man, by whom he was bled from the arm, amongst other things, and ultimately by some accident salivated. Under these chcumstances his sight completely failed; he was sahvated, and had a severe diarrhoea; the substance voided consisting (according to liis sister’s account) chiefly of blood. About tliis period he first began to vomit, which he has continued to do ever since, during a period of about ten weeks, the matter vomited being occasionally mixed with blood, the vomiting occurring frequently each day, especially after taking food. The remedies tried in the hospital consisted of opium, calomel, prussic acid, blister to the occiput, and an em- brocation of olive oil and croton oil over the stomach: these, to a certain degree only, diminished the vomiting, but he died within about a fortnight from admission. On dissection, the head presented nothing unusual, except a most decided paleness of the cortical substance of the brnin, as well as of the vascular fringes of the ventricles. Tlie lungs were emphysematous here and there in jiatches on their surface, whilst in the cellular tissue of the chest., between the lung and jmhnonarv