IIJOKCURY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 273 until the colour of the iris is completely changed, and the edge of the contracted pupil is formed into a flocculent ring, with effusion of l}Tnpli to such an extent that useful vision is completely lost. Amongst the women who devote themselves to prostitution, and men of the lowest class, it is often hard to say wliich of nu- merous sores has been connected with the subsequent occurrence of iritis ; neither, if they described the supposed cause, are their accounts always correct, on account of the frequency of deceit, and their careless mode of obseridng even then.' own ailments. It appears, however, to be a certain fact, that sores with and with- out hardness are followed by uitis. The patients labouring under iritis are sometimes full and plethoric, whilst at other times they are feeble, and occasionally almost unable to stand. The greater number have only one eye affected, others have first one and then the other, wliilst occasionally patients present themselves with iritis of both eyes at once, but not affected fii’st at exactly the same time. The number of relapses after complete cure are few. The greater number have not been treated before admission, al- though this is not always the case; but the disease has very com- monly advanced to the effusion of lymph on admission. In all forms and degrees of syphilitic iritis mercury appears to be attended with greater benefit than any other medicine, the quantity employed being modified according to the general condi- tion of the patient. With the employment of mercury, cupping from the temples has been employed in many cases, and bleeding from the arm in some few. When the patient was in good health, and the pulse has been full and hard, general bleeding to fainting, employed early, has in some cases been attended with the best results, in reducing the inflammation of the eye, and hastening the action of mercury. The employment of mercury does not render an absolutely thin diet necessary. In some cases meat and even wine are necessary. Now and then, old people, and chiefly women, are admitted with well-marked syphilitic iritis, who ai’e much more advanced in life than in yeats, and are much reduced by poverty and bad habits. In some of these patients the Ijnnph seems hardly to undergo any change from day to day, until their whole condition is improved by appropriate treatment and a nu- tritious diet. Under these circumstances the lymph is slowly re- T