189 ABSCESSES OF THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. with pus flowed, until the umiiid closed at the end of about a month. The man was discharged in about six weeks from admis- sion, improved in health, and able to walk about well, using both legs equally. The following case illustrates the course which suppuration witliin the abdominal muscles may take, and the extent to which it may spread; dissecting, in fact, the peritoneum off from the lateral, back, and front parts of the abdomen, as clearly as has been found to be the case after rupture of the ureter. It would seem that the suppuration was originally connected with ailments in the bowel; but from the character of the openings into the caecum it appeared that these openings had formed from without inwards, from the abscess situated outside the caecmn opening into the bowel, as well as tlirough the skin. The parts were examined most minutely, and for the description I am indebted to the kind- ness of Mr. Paget:— 2. A man was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, labom’- ing under a certain degree of fever and great weakness, with occa- sional nausea, and a small frequent pulse. His bowels were open daily, the faeces solid, but mixed with more or less blood. The skin of the right groin was thin, red, swollen, and tender to the touch. The man stated that for several months he had experienced small discharges of blood from the intestines, but no material dis- turbance of their action. Tln-ee weeks before admission he fii’st felt a pain in the right groin, wliich prevented his moving about, and was followed by sweDing in that situation. He gradually became worse, and' a gmgling sensation could be felt in the groin. His scrotum became red, swelled, and hard, and on an opening being made into it, a quantity of pus, mixed with air, and smcUing strongly of fseces, escaped. Pseces and pus were afterwards discharged from the opening in the scrotum, which also began to slough. The man rapidly sank, and died. On ex- amination, the whole scrotum was found in a state of gangrene, On its right side was the opened cavity, full of foetid pus, which was contiiiucd by a long slougliing passage beneath the skin in front of the inguinal canal, until it reached a point just above tlie internal ring, where it ])assed through the abdominal muscles into the main cavity of the abscess. This abscess was situated between