CONTENTS. X Chap. X.—Affections and Injuries of Arteries and Veins. Dilatation of the common eavotid aiteiy. Rupture of the femoral .artery from a blow, unaccompanied by other injury. Aneurism of the femoral arteiy from a wound, with peculiar auscultatory signs. Injuries of the brachial, radial, ulnar, and posterior tibial arteries. Ecchymosis occiming spontaneously, also recmuing without apparent cause. Course of the obtui-atrix artery and point of origin of the arteria profunda femoiis . . , . . ... Chap. XI.—Affections of the Urinary and Genital Organs. Hydrocele. Employment of wine, iodine, and sidphate of zinc, for its cm-e. Cm’e from incision and simple puncture. Hych’oceles cured by injection, but recurring in two, six, and seven years. Hsematocele apparently commencing as such. The fluid of hsematocele. Hajinato- cele cui'ed by cold applications. Som’ce of the blood in ha;matocele. Retention of mine in women after fracture, and from retained men- strual secretion. Case of hsematuria of an obscure nature. Bladder suddenly recovering its power in paraplegia. Urethra ulcerating during convalescence from fever. Malignant disease of the testis, fatal in a few months, or lasting for seven years. Danger of incisions in the middle of the perinBcum. Unusual com-se of the artery of the bulb. Calculi lodged in the urethra. Stone drawn out of the bladder by the sound ........... Chap. XII.—Affections of Mouth and Ti’achea. Salivaiy calculus. Removal of tonsils. Abscess behind the pharynx. Cut throat. Nourishment by enemata after w'ounds of the throat. Cases of difficulty connected with the healing of the wmund. Suffoca- tion of adults and children from vomiting and from foreign bodies in the trachea. Space betw'een the cricoid cartilage and thyroid isthmus. Enlarged subclavian artery and bronchocele. Peculiar distiibution of suprascapular veins • • Chap. XIII.—Abscesses, See. Difficulty of diagnosis in abscesses on the abdomen. Suppuration on abdominal parietes after parturition. Case of abscess in iliac fossa, and recovery. Case of abscess, connected with the csccum, di.ssectiug out the cellular tissue of the loins. Case of abscess in the abdominal walls, PAGE 141 158 173