38 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. The union of the jaw has proceeded favourably. The gums are still sore from the mercury employed. Oct. 30th.—The soreness of the gums during the last one or two days has considerably diminished. She can distinguish objects well and clearly vdth the left eye, almost in a degree equal to that before the accident. She was unable during part of yesterday, and the whole of to-day, to distinguish objects with the right eye, and even now she can only distinguish light from darkness with it. The pupil of the left eye is more dilated than natund; the pupil of the right eye more contracted than the left. The motion of the right iris is not decided; it appears to move less freely than the left; the motions even of the left are, however, less free than natural. Bowels open. General health not worse, and still good,—To apply another blister. Hydr. c, Cretd, gr. ijss. bis. Nov. 3d.—The gums are now slightly affected. The left eye remains good; with the right she can now distinguish objects with tolerable clearness. The jaw has united, a small fistulous opening remaining in the situation of the abscess. She is so sa- tisfied with her improvement that she leaves to-day to become an out-patient.—Ordered to continue the Hydi'. c. Greta. Nov. 12th.—She came to the hospital to be looked at to-day. The left eye is in appearance natural, and she can read very small print with it. The pupil of the right eye is more contracted than the left, and perhaps not quite so freely moveable; the vision of it is very much impaired, but best in a strong bright light; but in the strongest light she can only trace the largest objects near this eye very indistinctly. December.—She has returned once more. The left eye conti- nues the same; the right is completely amaurotic, light not being distinguishable from darkness. Tdie arch of the pelvis will bear a great weight without injury, if the weight is tipplied oidy along the arch. A Avaggon wheel })assed over a maids pelids, from side to side, leaving an ecchy- mosis of the scrotum and upper part of thighs, but doing no other injury to any part. The mail stated that the waggon weighed 1 ton 4 cwt., and the load in it 4* tons 3 cwt.,—in all 5 tons 7 cwt.