208 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. stituting the two forms of phagedaenic ulceration and sloughing phagedsena respectively. Amongst the patients admitted into the syphilitic wards of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, the most common forms of disease are superficial ulcers and excoriations, and that form of sore in which the ulceration is of a more extensive and more serious nature than simple excoriation, but is unaccompanied by any decided hardness. Amongst these patients certain parts are more frequently affected than others. Amongst the men, the integuments, the inner surface of the prepuce, the corona glandis, and the orifice of the prepuce, more especially when the latter is at all contracted, are the common seat of these affections; wliilst in women, the hning membrane of the labia and nymphae, as weU as the commissure at the edge of the orifice of the vulva, are most commonly affected. In one case, where the patient died after considerable discharge of blood from the vagina, ulcers of this kind were found to extend high up the vagina towards the os uteri. These forms of ulcera- tion are mentioned without including those ulcers and excoriations which arise from acrid discharge, and similar sources, respect being had to those forms of disease alone in wMch the ulceration is the essential disease. The patients apply, almost always, whilst the disease is in the ulcerating stage; occasionally, however, other ulcers of the same character are commencing, in the form of pustules, near the original disease. The employment of medical means is directed to the ulcerated sore, including more or less in the same treatment that which is commencing. The general appearance of these sores is that of an ulcer, with an uneven spongy surface, of a brownish colour, surrounded by a sharp edge, and unaccompanied by any marked degree of hardness: there are, however, some peculiarities of appearance, which are connected with the locality of superficial sores. Thus, sores on the mucous membrane of the nymphse are gene- rally small and superficial; at the upper angle of the nymphse and clitoris they are often distinguished by a remarkably foul surface; on the corona glandis, the number, circular form, and depth of the sores, are remarkable, and at the junction of the mucous membrane of the labium with the integument the sores are generally placed