254 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SURGERY, persons^ wine and porter, with a nutritious diet, are given, whether mercury or iodine be employed. The employment of hydriodate of potash is followed in these cases by the best results, and generally gives relief in three or four days to the difficulty of swallowing, as well as diminishes the pain. Within a week from the commencement of the use of the medicine the ulcer assumes a healthy appearance, the general condition and appearance of the patient undergoing at the same time a marked change for the better. When this decided improvement has once taken place in the sore, and the patient’s health at the same time improves, the rapidity of convalescence is often remarkable, and the loss of parts much less than might at first have been anticipated from the serious and rapid disorganization of the part which was taking place. The dose of hydriodate of potash employed at St. Bartholomew’s Hospital is four or five grains three times in the day, given in half an ounce of the essence of sarsaparilla, or in an ounce and a half of water, or the compound decoction of sarsaparilla, for each dose. In many cases the addition of opium or morphia is made. This addition in severe and painful cases is often attended with great benefit; but such is not always the case, as the patient is some- times rendered restless and uneasy by it, and does better with the hydriodate of potash only. Since the hydriodate of potash has come into such general use, it is remarkable how rarely cinnabar fumigation has been employed as a remedy for foul sloughy ulceration of the fauces. There can, Iwwever, be no doubt that fumigation has been used with the greatest benefit in these cases, and the general result of the re- corded experience on this subject appears to be to the following effect. In some instances, where this affection of the throat has presented the most unfavourable appearances, cinnabar fumigations have produced a complete and sudden arrest of the destructive processes, converting a sloughy into a healthy granulating surface, though occasionally at the expense of a severe ptyalism. When the nature of the disease is such as to require immediate arrest, where the previous medical treatment has proved insufficient, more especially if the patient should chance to be strong, and have not ah’eady employed mercury, the probability of success from the employment of cinnabar fumigation is such as to recommend its