238 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. sionally cases in which iodine has been attended with but slight advantage are cured rapidly by the employment of mercury. It may be said that the papular eruption yields to iodine, where the acute stage of the affection has gone by, or where no fever exists from the first; but its efficacy in these cases is not very much greater than common means, and in the really obstinate cases of papular sypliiHtic eruption the efficacy of iodine does not appear to be at all comparable to that of mercury. In the summer of 1844, two well-marked cases of papular eruption, accompanied in one case with stains of a very deep copper colour, were admitted together into St. Bailholomew's Hospital, under Mr. Stanley. The eruption had existed for some time, and was unattended by any febrile disturbance. Under the employment of hydriodate of potash the patients improved, and went out better, but the amend- ment was so gradual that no very decided benefit appeared to be derived from the employment of iodine. The scaly syphilitic eruption is common, and often exists for many months without undergoing any great change, being one of the most intractable forms of disease with improper treatment, but yielduig most certainly and rapidly to the employment of suitable means. Tliis eruption generally appears under the form of psoriasis guttata, that form to wliich the term diffusa has been apphed being less common, wlulst psoriasis gyrata is so rare that even amongst the mass of syphilitic patients admitted annually into St. Bartho- lomew’s Hospital not one case is met with hi each year. The most common accompaniment of this affection is ulceration of the throat, but iritis, affection of the auditory meatus, and ulcerations of the integuments, occur occasionally at the same time, wlulst the extension of the affection of the skin to particular parts produces falling off of the hair, ulceration of the corners of the mouth, psoriasis palmaria, condylomata, and rhagades digitorum. The scaly syphihtic eruption is generally clearly marked, but such is not invariably the case j the patches ofskin being at tunes so much elevated, before any separation of the cuticle takes place, that the term tuberculo-squamous might well be employed. The oidy other source of confusion arises from the scaly appearance assumed at times by the papular eruption in its decline, which, however, may with care be generally dislinguished. Whatever difficulty, however.