132 CTJNICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEUVATIONS IN SUllCERY. When tlie patients are discharged from a hospital^ one looks at the round full stumps and considers every degree of roundness, and of the soft parts perceptible in it, as a great gain; but yet when old soldiers, and men who have had their thighs cut off many years ago, come for some other ailments to the hospital, and one looks at their stumps, which have been madeby great surgeons, which have done well, and served these patients capitally, their stumps are not always round and full. Indeed, the stump of the thigh- bone generally becomes prominent after some time, but so as the skin and soft parts are lax and free, and not adherent, the patient bears well on it, although the soft parts slope off from it. This looseness of parts, and especially this freedom from any adhesion to the bone of the cicatrix of the stump, seems to be one of the great advantages of the double flap operation on the thigh, in- asmuch as the skin, during the healing of the parts, is well separated from the bone, and even if the flaps do subsequently shrink, the cellular substance and skin of the flap still remain loose and free to a certain degree. The choice of the circular or flap operation can generally, but not always, be made. Mortification of the lower extremity, from injury to the main vessel of the limb, or the existence of malignant disease in the lower part of the femur, may prevent the parts being left low down, and thus render the circular operation preferable to that by double flaps. The femoral artery is generally divided entirely in the back flap, and does not lie at the angle of junction of the front and back flaps. The division of the artery need not be oblique in any great degree, although the edges of the flap are sloped; and when the flaps are finished, not by an oblique cut, but by carrpng the knife directly outwards, the division of the large vessels may be as transverse as in the cirerdar operation :—A limb was removed by Mr. Staidey above the knee, for disease of the joint, by the double- flap operation, the oblique cut being finished by cutting directly outwards. The man died in fourteen days from inflammation of the veins. In examining the stum]), the artery, nerve, and vein, were found to be divided quite transversely. When suppuration occurs in a stump, the artery and vein may be separated considerably from each other; and if from bleeding.