4'2 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. three-quarters of an hour Avith the pulleys, without reducing it. The head of the bone was drawn right down to the tuber iscliii, and evidently below the joint. Crepitus was said to be felt by three persons present on rotating the hmb. No bad symptoms followed. The man objected to any more trials. Charlotte Edwards, set. 17, admitted July 3d, imder Mr. Stanley, labouiing under dislocation of the right femur on the sciatic notch, with some inversion of the limb, some bending of the knee, altered direction of the Hmb, sinking of the trochanter, and in- creased distance between it and the anterior superior spine of the ilium, but without shortening. The marked signs were, the direc- tion of the femur, and the fixed condition of the head of the bone. It was reduced in twenty minutes by extension in the common way. The exact time of the passage of the bone in was not de- cided j but the patient, at the end of twenty minutes, said that her limb could be moved, and that “ sometliing went in with a tick.” The accident happened from a simple fall on the ground whilst pumping. She gave the following account:—About six months since she was kicked by a horse, and became lame immediately, on her right leg; she was taken to a workhouse, where she lay in bed for tliree weeks, and then walked on crutches for two months: one day she fell down by her bed: sometliing went in with a tick in her right hip, and her Hmb was immediately restored to its natural condition, so that she could put her foot to the ground. She lay in bed for the day, did not again use her crutches, and began to w^alk about with a stick, but becoming stronger went to service. Tlie tick, when she fell down, so exactly resembled the sensation of reduction at the hospital, that she knew by this that the bone was in. She remained in bed for some days, and then went out weU. Looking to the direct violence of the original blow, the extra- ordinary reduction from the fall, the second occurrence of the luxation, and the silent and very gradual reduction, it is not im- probable that some fracture, as of the acetabidum, may have occurred in the first uistance with the luxation. Labouring men are admitted from time to time, who in their occupation, or from a faU, receive a violent blow on the back;