144< CLINICAT, COLLECTIONS AND ODSEUVATIONS IN SITUOKRY. * I)r. Turnbull: Edinburgh iMcd. .nnd Surp:. .Tournnl, vol. xxxii. p. 114. 2nd dny. Limb as last niglit in size and teni])erature. Boy quiet and very faint. Pulse 130^ and very feeble. 11 P.M.—Knee slightly warm. 4tli day.—Delirious last nigliL but quiet and apparently more comfortable this morning. Pulse 130. Knee, leg, and ankle, warm. Poot very cold and blue. No pulse even now below the knee, and only perceptible to the middle of thigh. 6th day. Toes and foot still quite cold; the ankle is hot, swelled, and painful. 12th day.—The toes, foot, ankle, and leg, are now quite warm; the ends of the toes rather blue. No pulsation in the vessels even now below the middle of the thigh. The skin of the leg is less tense; the swelling above the knee is also much less in size. 20th day.—The leg and foot are now quite warm; no pulsa- tion below tbe middle of thigh. The thigh is much less in size; an opening has formed in the popliteal space, through which several ounces of pus are discharged daily. The boy sleeps moderately well, and takes his food. 4th month. —The boy stiU remains in bed, feeble and thin. The limb is bent at the knee, and fixed; the thigh and leg are thin; the opening on the popliteal space is open, but discharges very little. No pulsation can be detected in any vessel, below the situation of the blow. The end of the great toe remains dark and dead, but adherent; the ends of the little and fourth toe, so far as the pulp and skin are concerned, are separated. The boy, although feeble and thin, does not seem to fail, and though very ill does not appear to be in danger. The boy went home in the fifth month, and has often been at the hospital since. The limb remained bent at the knee, ivasted in the leg, and quite useless, some suppuration occurring at times from the popliteal space. The preceding case is illustrated somewhat by the following extract.* In this case, however, there was, fracture with an external wound. A man, 44 years of age, was knocked down by a waggon, the wheel of which went over his thigh, near the knee, and broke his