131 ON AMPUTATIONS. look not to what may be pi-oclueed by one who is always in prac- tice, but to wliat gives the best general result, when every thing goes on well, as well as when matters do not proceed altogether favourably. In the thigh and leg, after amputation, it not uncommonly happens that every tiling looks well for a few days, but that then some matter forms, or the hmb jerks, or is hot, or the skin gets just a little tight at one part over the hone. In these cases the flap operation succeeds better than the circular, for it rarely happens that the skin of the chcular operation can be got well forward again after it has once begun to retract, or become tight, whilst the mass of muscle and soft parts of a flap can often be brought down again after they have retracted very considerably. In the thigh, puncture of the artery, above its division, is readily avoided in the flap operation, and cannot well be done in the circidar. In the leg, the artery may readily be punctured in passing the knife beliind the limb, and wounded above its divi- sion ; still this is no real objection to the flap operation below the knee, as the same accident may happen from the use of the cathn. The rapidity of the flap operation, as compared with the chcular, is some advantage, but the whole operation is not necessarily shorter, for the number of arteries to be tied in the former case is generally greater than in the latter. During the few last years the double flap operation has been performed on a large number of patients at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, by Mr. Stanley, and with the best result. In many of these cases, at their termination, the full soft condition of the face of the stump, the complete depression of the bone in the line of union of the flaps, or beneath the front flap of the thigh, have been most marked, whilst the effects of inflammation, in rendering the stump tense, have been very much less than where the same accidents occurred after a circular operation. Two limbs were removed above the knee by the circidar opera- tion, the deep muscles being divided higher up than the super- ficial, and separately from them; the stumps were good, but not better than those from the double flap, and not equal to the very best from that operation. The operation itself was long. Only thi-ee vessels required ligature in one of these cases.