106 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. Dissection shewed old disease in many orgaus^ with four ounces of recently effused blood on tlie upper surface and base of the brain^ as well as a small quantity of effused blood on the upper part of the left posterior lobe. 3. In another case of severe delirium tremens^ the man had a sudden rigor, and then rapidly died. Dissection shewed nothing in the head, except some old opacity of the arachnoid. Amongst the patients with injuries of the head, wlio ultimately get well, are some ivho have previously had some peculiarity of mind, sufficient to make them considered odd, but not regularly insane. Many of these persons recover very slowly, and then.' symptoms are often so unfavourable for a long tune, that serious injury is suspected. The peculiarity of mind is at times remark- able during their recovery; they often appear heavy and duU, but are remarkably quick on certain subjects, and often in the midst of their apparently careless notice of surrounding objects and per- sons, are found to be taking accui'ate notice of every thing, and seem even to feel without displeasure that they are supposed to be very duU. Cases of tliis land have occurred at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, in which, from the slow progress, and impairment of faculties, the skull was supposed to be injured, but ultimately these persons recovered: this recovery, liowever, seemed incomplete to a certain degree; for, even long after, these persons appeared shaken, and still affected to a certain degree, by the shock wliicli their brain had received. These cases resemble very closely another class, of wliich the following is related as a remarkable instance, in which an injury of the head is accompanied with ordinary symptoms, but where these symptoms fail to yield, either at the ordinary period, or to common means : the employment, however, of the accustomed stimulus of sjiirits immediately pro- duces a marked change. It is not clear that this peculiarity does not occur at times, even in young boys, when at markets and other places they have begun to drink very early in life :— Thomas Baker, a3t. 35, admitted February 15th, 1843, under Mr. Stanley. A man of rather unhealthy appearance, quite un- able to give any account of himself, and not fuUy conscious of the nature of surrounding objects. There is nothing unnatm-al about