mercuuy and iodine in venereal diseases. 265 verse of these, and are met with in persons of good health, who labour under an acutely painful affection of the distal half of a single long bone, accompanied with considerable sweUing of the neighbouring parts, with redness of the skin. The progress of these latter cases may be thus described :—A patient in moderately good health, and sometimes very soon after the cure of the primary disease, complains of pain commencing in the distal extremity of a long bone, accompanied with considerable sweUing and redness of the part. There is a considerable degree of fever, with acute pain in the ajBfected part, but no formation of matter. After a short time this affection of the bone and pe- riosteum leaves the part first affected, and creeps higher up, thus gradually advancing along the entire bone, attacking each portion successively with great severity, and causing extreme suffering for ten days or a fortnight. In these cases the hydriodate of potash is not attended with any decided benefit, the application of leeches frequently, and in considerable numbers, being the means chiefly to be rehed on, and being followed by slow but complete beneflt. 2. Tluid nodes, and soft swellings of the bones, are frequently met with amongst venereal patients, but are much less common than the simple pains just described. The soft nodes occur chiefly as elastic fluctuating sweUings on the frontal and parietal bones, covered with a thin and somewhat inflamed skin. This affection may present itself either in this form, or it may be met with, after the bursting or incision of the part, as a foul ulcer, with an exposed scale of dead bone at the bottom. The common nodes which appear on the tibia and ulna are generally of a firm nature, and approach much neai’er to a solid than a fluid swelling; so hard, indeed, are some of these swellings,' that a careful exa- mination is sometimes necessary, even in tolerably recent cases, before the existence of bone in them can be positively denied. Tluid nodes on the flat bones, and recent nodes on any bones, admit of complete cure; wliilst the pains in old hard bony nodes of many years^ standing can generally be much relieved, althougli the removal of nodes after they are become regularly bony appears to be very rare indeed. Some of the fluid nodes, by their extreme softness and thinness, seem to be on the eve of bursting, and almost invite a punctui’c.