INJURIES OF HEAD AND SPINE. 73 watery, and of a very tliin eonsistence, being only stained with blood. 2d day.—Ides dull and stupid; hardly sleeps even at night; vomits very frequently; but is sensible when spoken to, and answers his name. The fluid from the ear continues to flow, and has soaked the chief part of his sliirt. When he lies on the right side, the fluid fills the left ear. The boy continued m this condition, being dull and heavy, sleeping very httle at night, vomiting, and taking very little food, until the sixth day, when he gradually became insensible, breathed heavily, lay with his head flexed backwards, and died about 5 P.M., the symptoms having become gradually worse up to the fifth day, but not being attended with such acuteness or fever as to afford any weU-marked indication for treatment. The flow of fluid con- tinued during the two fii’st days; it then ceased, but recurred again before death : the consistence of it was very tliin, the chief part evidently consisting of blood. Some effusion of blood was found on the skull, over the left half of the frontal bone. A fracture, commencing at the frontal centre, passed across the left half of the frontal bone, the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, and the petrous portion of the temporal bone, to the base of the skull. A considerable effusion of blood was found in the anterior fossa of the skull, on the left side, external to the dura mater, and a smaller one on the right half of the temporal bone, also external to the dura mater. The dura mater w'as torn right tlnough in the line of fracture, just over the superior semicircular canal; so that the cavity of the arachnoid communicated with the fractme. The whole cavity of the arachnoid and substance of-the pia mater, extending between the cerebral convolutions, was full of greenish recent lymph. Tlic cortical substance of the brain was more full of blood than natur^d; the ventricles rather large, and full of clear fluid. The outer part of the right lobe exhibited a rent about an inch and a half long, not extending deeper than the convolutions; on the left side, over the hole in the dura mater, was a small softened spot of brain, without much blood, which communicated with tlic arachnoid cavity, but which only included the cortical substance.