221 JIKUCmiY A>iD IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. jiclcled readily to mercmy at last. The permanent success of tliis j)laii has appeared equal to that of the other modes of treatment of primary disease, and the cases have not returned again on liand for a recuiTence of the primary disease. The simply foul phagedfenic ulcer is generally situated near the corona glandis, or root of the prepuce, and is often accompanied by a tight inflamed phimosis. The edges of the sore are in gene- ral free from swelling or oedema, but surrounded by considerable redness, whilst tlie surface of the sore at the bottom of these ver- tical sides is of a yellovdsh white or tawny colour. This form of sore resembles the ulcer last described to a certain degree, but the degree of acute inflammation accompanying it is greater, and often depends on some obvious cause, whilst the destruction of parts by sloughing of the glands is often much more rapid. This sore occurs in two classes of patients: the first is that where the sore is accompanied by considerable surrounding in- flammation, and with general fever; the head is painful, the pidse fuU and firm, the skin hot, and the tongue covered with a thick white fur. In such cases the condition of the sore appears to be connected with the general inflammatory fever, and to pomt to the rehef of that condition as the indication for its appropriate treat- ment ; and such, in fact, is the treatment attended with most benefit. In such cases application of leeches round the inflamed sore, and (if it exists) the removal of the paraphimosis by opera- tion, exert a most favomable effect on the sore, whilst the ex- hibition of a free purgative to evacuate the bowels, followed up by small doses of a saline aperient, at frequent inteiwals, to continue a free discharge from the bowels, is attended vith great benefit. General bleeding is not mentioned, and for the reason that it has very seldom been employed in these cases, and in the subsequent progress of the cases such appearances have not been seen as to indi- cate that its omission was to be at all regretted, the free abstraction of blood from the part sufficing, with the other treatment, to re- duce the inflammatory condition, without any general abstraction of blood. The employment of purgatives in a sufficient dose to completely empty the alimentary canal, and the subsequent fluid discharges from the bowels, reduce the patient considerably; in addition to which, the application of leeches in considerable quan-