MERCUEY IN SIMPLE AND INDURATED PRIMARY ULCERS. ^15 removal of the mass. The hard button remaining after the cica- trization of the sore, though generally reducible by the aiiplica- tion of mercurial ointment to the part itseK, at the same time that mercury is employed internally, is at times only completely re- moved after the lapse of a long period of time, and by the changes in the part itself exclusive of any medical means. With regard to the internal employment of mercury, although the manner of its employment and the degree of effect to be produced on the system vary in the different cases, yet a marked influence on the constitution, as indicated most readily by the affection of the mucous membrane of the gums, is that effect wliich is desired to be produced. Tliis inflammation of the gums and increased flow of saliva is most conveniently produced m from six to seven days, and by the internal employment of blue pdl, Avhen once established, is maintaiued at the same degree, or in- creased according as is necessary. To diminish it, however, below that degree to which it arrives in about two days from its com- mencement, is difficult, without removing it altogether. In the great majority of cases, the soreness of the mouth, with slight mercurial foetor of the breath, and a coppery taste of tlie mouth, hidicates the state of system generally accompanied with the heal- ing of this kind of sore, and should be maintained until cicatriza- tion has taken place. With regard to the employment of mercury after cicatrization has occurred, the following seems to be the best rule. If on the healing of the sore the entire hardness is removed, the cicatrix perfect, the part restored to its natural condition exclusive of the mere scar, and the mercury has been attended with distinct signs of affecting the system, mercury appears to have done its duty, and to be no longer necessary. Such complete cure on the cicatrization of the ulcer is not the most common case, more or less induration generally stiU re- maining. If the induration is becoming soft, and is being re- moved, the employment of small quantities of mercury is stdl the best course of proceeding. If, however, the induration be still hard and large, it is best to get rid of it quickly, as it will be removed with much greater difficulty when it has existed for some time, and as the safety of the patient is endangered by its