170 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. their spaces being occupied by gelatinous matter. Both the sacro-iliac joints were destroyed. The left liip-joint was filled with a dirty yelloiv-brown fluid, the cartilage entire, the head of the femur separating from the neck, which was soft, yielding under the finger; the trochanter firm and healthy. The head of the bone coidd be scooped out with the finger, leaving only the carti- lage. The neck of the right femur was entire, but the posterior part soft, giving way on pressure with the finger. The lumbar glands wnre enlarged, forming a large mass as big as two fists in front of the spine, and in structure resembling the diseased testicle. Some lumps, of the size of horse-beans, accompanied the spermatic vessels, resembling enlarged absorbent glands; the vas deferens was natural; the thoracic and abdominal viscera healthy. In the preceding case the whole disease apparently ran its course in nine months, the man considering liimself well at the commencement of that period. Such, however, does not appear to be the common course of the disease, a longer period elapsing be- fore the disease terminates fatally, although that period is not so Tong as in the following case, where disease had been gradually coming on for seven years. There were some suspicious circum- stances about it, but none of a very decided character. The disease, however, was decided fungus hsematodes :— A man, aged 45, was admitted, mider Mr. Stanley, labouring under a swelling of the left testicle to about twice its natural size, of an oval form, wdth an uneven surface, heavy feel, and hardly tender. It jdelded, but did not fluctuate, and was soft at one part. The glands of the groin were healthy to the touch. Tliis man had laboured under the venereal disease two or tliree times. The disease of the testicle began seven years previously without cause, and had increased slowly since. Mercury produced no effect in any way on the swelling. The testicle was removed, and w'^as found to consist of two distinct substances; an upper, foiining a mass of true fungus hsematodes, and a lower, of a brown, ochry-coloured, putty-like substance. The long deep incisions of the perineum for the relief of effusion of urine are not generally attended with any considerable bleed- ing, the divided parts being often dead, and the quantity of blood contained in them small. The effusion is generally so situated that