250 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY, other times elevated patches of ulcerated mucous membrane appear on the palate, pillars of the fauces, and gums, varying from the size of a pea to that of a bean, or even of a half-crown. These spots are of an irregularly circular form, elevated and covered with a soft pulpy substance, of a white colour, resembling sodden cuticle. ' The excavated ulcer of the tonsil, with sharp edges and a deep hollow cavity, covered on its surface with a firm substance of a dirty white colour, and surrounded with very little inflammation, is the most common form of ulcer, next to those arising from superficial inflammation. It is generally accompanied with affec- tion of the skin, and is most commonly confined to the tonsils themselves. The pharynx is liable to the same sypluhtic affections as the anterior part of the mouth, but is also affected at times separately, and ill a different manner. The most severe cases of ulceration and slougliing are generally confined to the back part of the fauces, and are unconnected with disease of the anterior parts of the tongue and palate. In the forms of disease already described as occurring in the fauces and tonsils, the health is not necessarily much reduced, and occasionally very little suffering is produced by even severe disease. In the affections of the pharynx, how- ever, such unaltered health is rarely met with, and some degree of emaciation, considerable suffering, and a generally reduced con- dition of health, are commonly found to be present, more espe- cially if the disease is accompanied vdth a foul sloughy condition of parts, instead of simple ulceration. The syphilitic affections of the pharynx, exclusive of those forms of disease which are common to it with the surrounding parts, are severe but simple ulceration, and foul ulceration with sloughing. The foul sloughing ulcerations are large in extent, especially in the vertical direction, in which they sometimes lie beyond sight; they occupy more or less of the posterior wail of the pharynx, pillars of the fauces, and edges of the palate. The surface of the sore is covered with a foul yellow substance soaked with pus, whilst the surrounding membrane presents a red erysi- pelatous appearance. This form of ulcer is accompanied some- times with great difficulty of swallowing and breathing, as well as