ON AMPUTATfONS. 1:29 In the body of a man brought for dissection, one of the middle fingers had been removed some time before death, the metacarpal bone being left: on dissection, the chief change in the parts was the remarkable thickening of the transverse palmar ligament, near the end of the metacarpal bone of the amputated finger:— One of the two middle fingers of one hand had been removed at the junction of the first phalanx and metacarpal bone, at some distant period, so that the stump was firmly and completely cica- trized. The cicatrix was firm, drawn to a centre, and firmly adherent to the subjacent portion of bone. The end of the metacarpal bone was quite perfect, and destitute of cartilage, but covered with a dense fibrous substance, closely incorporated with the skin and tendons. The extensor tendon was continued into this dehse mass, wliilst the two flexor tendons, forming together one common fibrous cord, passed to the palmar surface of the same mass. The lumbricalis and interossei muscles were small, but were distinct, and connected slightly with the end of the bone. The transverse ligament of the palm was remarkably strong and tliick, and closely united with the end of the bone and the fibrous cord common to the two flexor tendons. The two nerves formed large round bulbs, adherent to the cicatrix, not being a gradual enlarge- ment of the nerve, but presenting the appearance of tM'o small globes added to nerves of usual measurement. The two arteries \\'ere so small as to be hardly visible. It is remarkable how little the bones of the fingers in children seem to sufter in some cases, when the hand has passed between rollers of macliinery, placed at so small a distance as to compress a thick sheet of paper. In these cases the muscles and • skin mav be torn to an extreme degree, and the nerves dissected out, whilst the bones appear round, and of their natural form, as if they had recovered their natural form, although necessai-ily the pressure to wliich they have been subjected must have been extreme, as is shewn by the condition of the muscles and nerves. Amputation of the fore-arm low down near the wrist can seldom be done very rapidly, as the tendons do not divide readily, like muscles, under the knife. The stump does not generally heal by the first intention, but suppurates, and a very long peiaod often elapses before complete cicatrization takes place. This difficulty K