194 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. cellular tissue of one hand each, extending in one case only up to the wrist, and in the other to a certain degree up the fore-arm. In one case a small opening existed on the back of the hand, leading towards the wrist, but not decidedly into the joint. No very distinct cause could be foimd in either case to show clearly the nature of the affection. In one case the swelling had existed for four months, and had succeeded an attack of inflammation of the hand, for which an incision had been made. In one case leeches were frequently applied to the part, and in the other small doses of hydr. c. creta, with occasional doses of aperient medicine, were given. The patients remained in the hospital about five weeks, but did not appear better. The health of one was not very good on admission, but the other appeared to be pretty well. A young dehcate woman was in St. Bartholomew's Hospital soon afterwards, with a similar affection, but more con- fined to the wrist, which joint, however, appeared to be perfectly sound. Notliing seemed to do any decided good. She went out, and lived for some time in the suburbs of London, and was reported to have gradually got quite well, without any particular medicine or means being employed. Mortification of the hand, except as a consequence of local injury, is an extremely rare affection; the feet and lower extremi- ties mortify from fever, disease of the vessels, or other causes, but any loss of portions of the upper extremities by mortification is very rare indeed. The two following cases are related at length, not only on account of the rarity of the affection, but also as examples of a disease commencing in a mild and common manner, but terminating in the loss of the most useful part of the most important limb. In both cases imld rheumatism or gout preceded the affection, unmarked however by any severe symptom. In one case cold was applied, and in the other some liniment, to which the affection might perhaps have been attributed, but it is not clear that these appHcations had much to do in causing the affec- tion, though perhaps they may have aided its progress:— 1. A man, aged 37, was admitted under Mr. Lawrence. He was of a pale, unhealthy appearance, and not very sober habits: had been liable to gout in the hands and feet for some years. These attacks came and went, without any particular event, till April 19,