90 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. opening of bursae containing a serous fluid, such accidents have not occurred where pus has formed. Under such circumstances the part may be considered and treated as a simple abscess. When the skin has become much thickened over the patella, it is some- times hard to detect the fluctuation in the bursa, especially if the quantity of fluid be very small. Occasionally, the bursa, under these cii’cumstances, without any very acute symptoms, or distinct enlargement, suppurates; and, on an incision being made into it, the natural seci'etion of the cavity is found mixed with a small quantity of ciu-dy matter. The evacuation of this piu-iforra serum gives great relief, and the cases do well. In some cases the inflammation of the structures surrounding the suppurated bursa is very c-onsiderable; the integuments on the lower part of the thigh becoming red and cedematous, whilst the bursa is acutely painful, much swelled, and, on incision, is found to be filled with a great quantity of thick yellow matter. These cases are accompanied with a deal of suffering, and are re- lieved by nothing but an incision, after which they get rapidly well. From those cases which have occurred, the folloM'iiig plan has seemed the best to adopt in cases of enlargement of the subcuta- neous bursm. When matter has formed in them, the only means is the evacuation of the fluid by a free opening; this is unattended with danger, and followed by a rapid and complete cure. ^Wien, however, the bursa is recent, the skin thin, and the fluid probably a mere increase of the natural secretion of the cavity, the employ- ment of blisters, or the external application of the tincture of iodine, is the best means of gradually lessening the swelling; but it will probably retm-n. Tor a complete cure, or in those cases where the swelling does not yield to the application of bUsters, or to the external apphcation of iodine, more especially if the swell- ing be not large, the best plan of treatment is to introduce a fine thread tluough the swelling, and use it as a seton. On the second day this tluead generally causes considerable pain, and requu-es withdrawal. A small quantity of puriform fluid passes for a few days through the opening, after which the swelling gets gradually less, and contracting, is completely cm-ed. Verj' frequently the bursa suppiuates so freely as to require a free opening, the hole for the thread having closed : although this is an extra source of