CIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 97 removes a working man from all employment, even tliongli it be unattended by any immediate danger to bfe, may be to him so serious a misfortune as to induce liim even to beg an operation, which affords a chance of a restoration to health, even though at serious risk to lumself. There are certain occupations and trades in London which are especially drunken trades, and the simple fact of a person belong- ing to them is a very bad prognostic for sickness. These persons do not however drink at random, or drink anytliing, but each particular class drink after a certain rule, follow the same habits, and present nearly the same appearance. They all come to pretty much the same end at last, but they reach it by different roads. The great beer druikers, draymen, coal-wliippers, and watermen, work much in the open air, exercise their hmbs most powerfully, and though seldom of a healthy appearance, often have the size as well as the power of the finest and healtluest countrymen. These men are especially contrasted with the great spirit diinkers, who work in a hot close atmosphere, only employ some of their limbs, and often work at night or at late hours : such are often newspaper compositors, and tailors. These are the two extremes of a class; their habits and occupations are utterly different; their faults take a different turn from the same road, and the two classes present a totally difi'erent appearance for a certain time. These men are, so to speak, moderately well off; theh wages are good, their occupation pretty regular, and they are not the ready poor. There are, however, many trades which are foUowed by the poor in mind and the w^eak in body, the wages of which are never high, and often uncertain: the employment of these persons hai’dly ceases day or night, exposes them to the greatest changes in weather, and they often serve masters little above themselves. Amongst these are waiters at low taverns, stablemen at livery stables, and prostitutes. Tliese drink neither beer nor spirits in the same extreme degree as the two other classes, but they chink a great deal of any thing in small c^uantities, live on bad food, and poverty often presses very hard upon them. These are the habits of some few classes of the persons wdio form the patients of a London hospital; their life ends not n