AFFECTIONS OF THE HUTNARY AND GENITAL ORGANS. 1 to be the effect of real disease; yet she died of paralysis. Reten- tion of urine sometimes occurs after fractures of the lower extre- mity, n-ithout any injury to the bladder, though not perhaps suffi- ciently often to be common. Retention under these circumstances is more common in men than women, yet it has been seen to occur in an old woman to such an extreme amount, within a few' days after fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, as to destroy life by the inflammation of the bladder and kidneys produced by it. The following case of retention of urine is remarkable in many respects, but especially for the unusual cause which gaire rise to it:— A healthy unmarried girl, aged seventeen, was sent up from the country to the hospital for inability to empty her bladder, and was admitted under Mr. Lawrence. Till the la.st few days she had fol- lowed her employment as a servant, and, till the present difficulty of passing her water occurred, she had considered herself as well. A catheter was introduced by the house-surgeon into the bladder with great difficulty. The size wns only a No. 2 gnm catheter, and it seemed to pass vertically upwards, close behind the os pubis, tlirougli a urethra four or five inches long. Tlie chief impediment seemed to be the narrowing of tlie urethra by firm pressure from behind forwnrds. About one pint or more of high-coloured lunne was tlnis drawn off', with great relief to tlie patient. The immediate lugency of her ailments was thus relieved. The following circumstances wnre made out then and afterwards. The vagina was closed by a membrane at a point situated rather behind the orifice of the urethra, near the situation of the hymen.. A firm, apparently solid tumor filled the hollow of the sacrum, and pressed the rectum .so much backwards, that the finger could, only be passed behind it wdth difficulty. She had never men- struated, but had never been troubled w'ith much pain in the loins, or bearing down pains, and only occasionally .suffered from headache. She applied on the Friday: at seven o'clock on tlie following moming the nurse called the house-surgeon, to say the patient was flooding. Tlie bed contaiued a (|uantity of blood, smelling like putrid fish. The blootl was still ninning from the vagina.