92 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. A girl was adiuitted in 1838^ under Mr. Stanley, labouring under this affection to such an extent, that the sweUing formed a large tumor in the palm of the hand and forearm. A free incision made into it, gave exit to a quantity of ffuid, mixed with hard bodies hke melon seeds. The parts were much inffamed, but ultimately got quite well, with removal of the enlarged bursa, and some impairment of motion from the thick- ening of the part, which, however, in about two years, subsided so completely, as to allow the free and almost perfect motion of the hand and wrist. In another case, however, where openings had been made before admission, amputation of the hand was at last required. This form of affection of the synovial sheaths of the tendon.'* about the wrists becomes apparent at its early stage both in the palm of the hand and above the annular hgament at the same time, by a slight degree of fulness in both situations. The situa- tion in M^hich the palmar affection is fii’st apparent is over the tendon of the index finger. This affection is generally met with in the sheaths of the fiexor tendons; it, however, is presented to us sometimes in the extensor tendons also. In the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital is a preparation shewing enlargement of the sheaths of the extensor tendons, with the formation of numerous small bodies in them; the tendons and sheaths are also somewhat thickened. There is also a preparation of the same kind from the bursa situated over the tendons attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus, exhibiting the formation of numerous small bodies there also. Small bursm are very often situated in the neighbourhood of the tendons on the back and front of the radius, where they grow to the size of a large nut; these bursae generally burst on firm pressure, and are thus very frequently got rid of entirely; they are, however, very hable to recur on any great use being made of the part. These bursae generally contain a thin watery fluid; they are, however, sometimes filled with a white cheesy substance, which may be pressed out from an opening made into them, after which the parts inflame slightly, and suppiuate, but ultimately heal well.