MALIGNANT DISEASE. 205 gland and cheek, elastic, threatening to bui'st at one part, desti- tute of fluctuation, and only soft and inflamed in one spot, com- mencing one year since. Two years since this man^s eye was removed by Mr. Wormald for a small growth from the conjunc- tival and sclerotic coats at the inner angle of the orbit. The growth appeared to have begun in the conjunctiva, and had the appear- ance of carcinoma. The parts in the orbit are now collapsed, and free from disease. The man appears worn, and is hemiplegic as weU as dull in intellect. He died about Jan. 15th. The mass of disease in the cheek consisted of a red brainlike substance, including the skin and tissues beneath, the bone not being affected. The optic nerve was healthy, and spread out into the fat of the orbit. The brain wasted on one side, with great thickening of the membranes on the same side beneath an old injury to the skull, with fracture of the outer table. The heart contained in its walls a mass of the same morbid structure as was found in the cheek. In the cases of cancer of the tongue this organ has been found affected, on one side, nearer the base than the apex, except in one instance, where the disease began with a sore in- flamed spot on the left side of the frBenum, and occupied one of the folds of the membrane between it and the sublingual gland. Tliis was, however, decided carcinoma. There is seldom much difficulty in distinguishing between the venereal affections of the tongue, and those produced by mercury, or the venereal disease; yet occasionally patients present them- selves with a condition of tongue which is so unlike that com- monly occurring in connection with the venereal disease, or that resulting occasionally from mercury, that it is a hard matter at first to say what the exact cause of it may be:— A healthy-looking woman was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital, labouring under an affection of the tongue, wliich she attributed to the employment of medicine for an attack of jaundice, which had occurred five weeks previously. The tongue was very painful and greatly swelled, the mouth being also partially filled by a constant flow of saliva; the tongue was ulcerated on nearly the whole of its upper surface, and was marked by the ulcerated im- pressions of the teeth of the upper and lowei’ jaws along its sides.