188 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. only one leg, and on examination stated that his knee had been removed for fungus hsematodes four years previously. The tumor ^vas left, of wliich this was part; the man had mahgnant disease of the lung, of wliich he died. ^ omen present themselves from time to time labouring under abscesses on the walls of the abdomen, occurring soon after par- tui-ition, and preceded by rigors and fever. Although these patients are very weak, and the parts much thickened, yet they generally do very well, and the abscess slowly heals, the disease being en- tirely external to the abdominal muscles; the matter evacuated from tliese abscesses being at times of a dark brown colour, and attended with a faecal odour; yet there may not be any com- munication with the bowel. Tlie two following cases of suppuration connected with the abdominal cavity ai’e related as examples the one of the success occasionally attending an early opening of an abscess in the iliac ibssa, the other as shewing the great extent to which suppuration witliin the abdominal muscles, and attended with obscure symp- toms, may spread and affect surrounding parts. In the first case snppuration occurred in the iliac fossa, apparently unconnected with any injury or internal disease; the matter was let out, and the man gradually recovered :— 1. A man, aged 47 years, of a pale, unhealthy appearance, was admitted, under the care of Mr. Lawence, for a large painful swelling in the right inguinal region, accompanied with heat, some tliinning of the skin, and considerable surrounding in- duration. Pressure above Poupart’s ligament produced severe pain, and in the swelling itself there was indistinct deep fluc- tuation. The man was unable to sleep from pain, sweated profusely at night, and had a feeble frequent pidse. He had been an out- })aticnt for some irregularity of the bowels, without any marked symptoms, till seven weeks previously, when he had a very severe shivering fit, since vliich time tlie swelling gradually formed. Mr. Lawrence made an opening in the most prominent part of the swelling, from which twelve ounces of healthy pus were dis- charged. The man was much relieved by the opening made. The, discharge of pus gradually ceased, and a thin watery fluid unmixed