2’84.' CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEllVATIONS IN SUKGERY. some great effect produced on tlie body by primary disease. Whatever this effect isj experience has shewn that it most com- monly succeeds particular forms of primary disease, but that it may succeed to any kind of primary ulcer. However mild may have been the primary disease, or however long a period may have elapsed from its occurrence, there appears to be no doubt that an indi^ddual in whom primary disease has once occurred in a clear and decided manner cannot feel sure that at any period of his Hfe symptoms of sj^hilitic disease may not occur. After a certain period, and after their apparently complete cure, it is most im- probable that they will occur, but every now and then sypliilitic symptoms have arisen at a very late period when security against them had apparently been gained, if not by medicme, at least by lapse of years. A small sypliilitic sore may have just as inexph- cable and great effect on the body as the simple vaccine pustule has, and though the effects may be diminished in a few years in the former, and more slowly in the latter case, yet the effects of either one or the other may be continued through a whole hfe : when such is the case, there can be no need to account for the labour with which the influence of any medicine, in preventing the occurrence of secondary symptoms, has been studied j or to wonder that the influence of mercmy in curing primary disease has attracted less attention than its power in preventing the occm’- rence of secondary symptoms. Although secondary symptoms may follow any sore, yet certain sores have been found to be followed by them more commonly than others. The hard primary ulcer, surrounded and preceded by induration, seems to have been universally described as the sore most commonly followed by secondary disease. Next in order may be reckoned the simple and foul phagedmnic ulcer, whilst the simple sloughing sores and sloughing phagedsena are more raiely followed by secondary disease than any other ulcers. In the description of each sore the result of the emplojunent of mercury, so far as the cure of the existing disease is concerned, has been detailed; the propriety of employing mercury as a preventive means still, however, remains to be here considered. The complete cure of the primary disease, even to its remains, and the maintenance of the general health, are the two most