HEllCUllY IN SIMPLE ANE INEUKATED PHIMAHY ULCEUS. 213 local bleeding by leeches, or the other means commonly applied to an inflamed part before the employment of local mercunal appli- cations. AVhen, ag;un, the ulcer has existed for a long time, and is almost in a chronic state, the internal administration of mer- cui'y is generally necessary to place the sore in a healing condi- tion ; the local application of mercury, although beneficial, hardly appearing to be sufficient to alter the condition of the sore. But Avhen the ulcer is running its usual coui’se, is stiU unhealthy on its surface, and presents all the signs of progressive disease, the local appHcation of mercury in certain forms is generally attended with the best results. So frequently, and with such decided benefit, has it been apphed whilst the sore was still spreading, that it has appeared to be one of the most powerful means in correcting the unhealthy condition of the primary venereal ulcer with indu- ration, and converting it into a healthy granulating sore; and not- withstanding the descrqjtions of the bad effects of local mercurial apphcutions to ulcerating sores, opportunities occur from time to time in which one may observe the greatest benefit not unfire- quently following their appHcation. Tire curative nifiuence of mercury is sometimes put to the test in the following manner. Cases occur from time to time where doubtful venereal ulcers are treated vidth various local and general means, without any direct imjrrovement: at last mercury is apphed locally, when a foul yellow sore, with considerable accompanying pain, is soon converted into a healthy granulating suiTace, without any pain, and with every sign of heahng. In some cases of primary sores, lotions of alum, sulphate of zinc, or simple water, are frequently applied, whilst mercury is administered internally during the entire heahng of the sore. In the majority of cases, however, when these simple forms are used, some cliange requires to be made in the local appHcation, or in its strength, as the surface of the sore is- liable to become pale, and the restorative processes slow. Bor these reasons, as well as on account of the benefit resulting from the a])plication of the black wash, and the long |>eriod which it may be used without any change being required, black wash is a local aj)plication fre- quently and usefully employed. Jhe apjdication of mercury in a fluid forjii to indurated idcerat-