AFFECTIONS OF MOUTH AND TKACHEA. 175 generally towards the thyroid cartilage. Wounds of the pharynx sound much more serious than wounds of the larynx; but when we remember that any incision of moderate depth above the upper chord* vocales necessarily enters the pharynx, ivithout implicating the larynx, it is plain that incisions of the larjmx or pharynx depend much more on the situation than on the depth of the wound. The real danger of a wound of tlie pharynx consists in the exposure and consequent inflammation of, with effusion of fluid into, the parts around the larynx, and tlie difficulty in feeding tlie patient. Many patients with cut throat die in a few hours exhausted; others die in a day or two, from the fluid collecting in the air tubes, or from failure of their powers without any very marked local disease; and others live many iveeks, and at last die from some pecuharity in the healing of the wound. A. very little local disease will destroy a patient reduced by the loss of blood and his own unhappy mental condition. Mdien a person attempts to destroy liimself, he may divide the jugular vein, but he very rarely wounds the carotid artery; when he tries to murder another person, the carotid artery may be readily wounded. Even in the common position of parts, tlie carotids are backwards, and deep in the neck; but with the chin elevated and the head thrown back, the carotid arteries are very backward :—In the summer of 1840, a man cut liis wife's throat, and then his own: in the woman's neck one carotid artery was divided, but in his own the jugular vein alone suffered. The ca- rotid often escapes very narrowly :—A man cut his tluoat very severely; the carotid was not opened, but its coats were just jagged in one spot, so that blood might be seen oozing from the notch when it was accurately sponged. The blood came only from the coats of the vessel. When a person cuts his tliroat, bleeding may be immediately fatal by suffocation: —A man was brought in dead, with a cut throat. The jugular vein was found divided, and a clot, by falling into the laiynx, had choked him. Soon afterwards another man was admitted, with a very, severe cut throat. Wliilst the house-surgeon was clearing the coagula and tying the vessels, the man gasped, coughed, and seemed suffocated. The per.son assisting stuck his fingei’s im-