22-8 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. of the glands is attended with extensive tliickening of the sur- rounding parts, so that a considerable mass of hard tissue and glands, collected together, is found in the upper part of the thigh. In both these classes of cases the inflammation is often but slight, whilst the changes whicli take place in the part are not rapid or very marked. A bubo sometimes remains for a considerable time as a hard mass, without undergoing any particular change, until at last it either becomes soft over a very small space, tliis soft part being sm-rounded and placed on a large bed of indm’ation, or at other times tins hard mass acquires rather a softer feel on the whole, nuthout pointing at any particular part. These different appearances are met with in different stages of venereal bubo, and aU present some featmus in common. The affection of the surrounding cellular tissue is not acute, and is accompanied with considerable induration; there is a decided en- largement of the glands ; the quantity of effused fluid is small, or it may be wanting, and this fluid bears but a small proportion to the soHd parts of the swelling. It is in these cases that the effects of mercury appear to be the most marked, and in many cases to reduce the swelling without the occm’rence of any suppu- ration ; and when a fluid already exists in small quantity, in some cases to effect its removal. The employment of mercurial frictions to the tliigh below the enlarged glands, at the same time that it is one of the most gentle modes of bringing the patient under the influence of mer- cury, affords whatever additional advantage there may be arising from the passage of the mercury through the glands themselves. Frictions of mercury on the glands themselves irritate and inflame the part, and do not seem to be attended with any particulai’ benefit; the constant apphcation of strong mercunal ointment, spread on a piece of strong wash leather, to the swelling, certainly in many cases is beneficial, probably by acting as a firm compress at the same time that the mercury is placed on the part. In many cases, under tlve emplojoncnt of mercury in tins way, the swelling slowly subsides; but such is not invariably tlic case. Even in apparently favourable cases the mercury appears some- times to do harm, the swelling siqipurating at once and most