134 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEKVATIONS IN SURGERY. by the muscles at the back of the limb, namely, by the biceps, semitendinosus, and semimembranosus; and the addition of these small processes, these levers, as it were, is just the means which would increase the power of these muscles, and render the vertical position of the remaining portion of bone possible. It would, in short, enable these muscles to give that erect and soHd position to the femur, which enables a man, with an amputated thigh supported on a wooden leg, to walk readily, and which is so strikingly contrasted with the condition of the limb of the patient shortly after amputation, or on the occurrence of a fracture in the upper third of the bone. In the double flap amputation of the tliigli above, and of the leg below the knee, the success of the operation appears to depend very much on procuring a good front flap. In the thigh, when every thing goes on quietly, the bone generally hes beneath the front flap; but when the stump inflames, or the parts retract, the end of the bone generally rests on the cicatrix between the two flaps. The bent knee, the tense condition of the extensor muscles, and the proximity of the knee-joint, aU tend to limit the front flap in the tliigh, but as a rule it seems desirable that this should be four inches long, and as broad and thick as it can be procured, for a difficulty will oftener arise in procuring it of sufficient size, than any inconvenience from its excess in that particular. The interosseous ligament between the tibia and fibula requiring a separate division, exposes the arteries to the risk of a puncture, even in the lower tlurd of the leg; the same accident may happen from the knife piercing the vessel in maldng the back flap, and the vessel so injured not bleeding at the time, may, by repeated haemorrhage, assist in destroying the patient. The fibula sometimes becomes loose after amputation:—A man was in the hospital for some ailment, his leg having been ampu- tated a long time previously. The stump of the fibula was quite loose, and moved almost as if in a ball-and-socket joint. The patient with an amputated leg, not resting on the face of the stump as in the thigh, is less sensible of any inconvenience on the face of the stump. It is, however, necessary that the hne of union should not come forwards, or be in such a part as to lie