11 ON HERNIA. gulation. Tlie sac was very tliick^ and found to contain a large quantity of bloody fluid, with about an’ inch and a half of large intestine in good condition. Behind the bowel was a large mass of omentum, very much thickened in its middle, and teiminating at the femoral ring in a narrow cord of the tliickness of the little finger. The whole of the protruded portion was thickened and congested irregularly, whilst the neck of the omentum was of quite a dark colour, and apparently consisted of vessels siurounded by ecchymosed omentum. TiiCse cases, in which the effusion of blood appears to depend on the closeness of the stricture, and where there are no’other unfavourable signs, have done well, and their progress throughout has been much more satisfactory than that of others, in winch the effusion of blood has depended on other causes. Bloody fluid has at times been found in another class of cases, depending apparently on a far different cause, and deserving much more consideration. Patients in whom many attempts at reduction have been made before admission, or m whom, from their refusal to submit to an operation, or those in whom from a probability of the hernia being reduced some delay has taken place, and more frequent, although careful, attempts have been made to return the parts;—in these cases the presence of bloody fluid has appeared to depend on the rupture of vessels in the protruded parts, and in these, too, peritonitis has followed the operation much more commonly than when the tightness of the stricture appeared to have been tlie cause of the effusion of blood. Where any perforation of the bowel has occurred, the fluid of the sac is generally more or less opaque and brown; still a bowel may be just on the point of giving way, and the fluid of the sac may present nothing unusual, beyond a very slight opacity. A man was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital under Mr. Lawrence, with an inguinal hernia, of moderate size, very tense and painful, and very narrow at its neck, lie was ope- rated on in twenty hours from the strangulation of the rupture. Hie sac contained a small quantity of opaque watery fluid. Tlie stricture was at the jicck of the sac, and so tight that the dircctv)r could only be introduced with difficidty. Du turning down the