146 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. recovery from fainting the bleeding was less, and was checked by t}dng a handkerchief very forcibly round the limb : this was left on for two days, and when it was removed no swelling existed : the wound was also healed. During these two days he was kept quiet. He returned to Ins work in fourteen days, the limb apparently well, and free from swelling. The swelluig was first perceived a fortnight or three weeks before his admission, of its present size. The appearance of the patient was healthy. dime 26th. The artery was tied just below Poupart^s ligament; the tumor almost completely subsided immediately, and became destitute of pulsation. The limb became cold, but recovered its warmth in a few hours, when covered with a blanket. 29th.—The swelluig exists in a less degree than before the operation, but stdl with a slight thrill. July 3d.—The patient is hot and feverish, with loss of sleep. Pulse 120—130, free from hardness, and feeble. On the front surface of the right leg, midway between the knee and ankle, a dark red and inflamed portion of skin, as large as a liaLf-croivn, and painful to the touch, has formed. The leg does not maintain its warmth without the use of hot water and a blanket. Prom July 13th tiU July 26th, the patch on the leg extended, so as to be three or four inches long, black, and not defined by a very marked line; the leg was dusky and cold; a slough formed on the great toe, and between two of the other toes. The pulsa- tion in the tibia! artery was extremely feeble, and less than after the operation, in a few days after wliich it returned. The patient also became less feverish, but was extremely and increasmgly feeble. In this condition of the patient, the clear state of the case was set before him—that a fair chance of life was afforded him by amputation, and probable death without; he cheerfully consented to undergo amputation, wluch was performed immediately, July 26. The patient neither moved nor spoke dm-ing the operation; the muscles were dark, and almost dry; the femoral artery only threw out a little blood, and tlie operation was hardly hke tlie ampu- tation of a living limb. The limb was removed by the circular operation above the knee. The stump remained quiet for about two or three days, no union taking place; it then began to discharge a thin, bloody, foetid