ABSCESSES OE THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. 187 the anterior mediastinum as M^ell as by tire tissue round the liver; this abscess entered the right lobe of the liver, which by old wliite adhesions was united to the neighbouring parts. The abscess in the liver was formed by a mass of dark green or black slu-eddy tissue, soaked with pus, destitute of blood or any organized appear- ance ; this mass being of tbe size of a fist, surrounded by a well- defined line, and by tissue of the liver hardly differing from the characters of health. The part exactly resembled a black rotten sponge full of pus. On remo\dng the liver pus ran out from its under and back part near the psoas muscle, into wliich muscle the abscess in the gi’oin passed, covered by the colon, which bowel was adherent to the surrounding parts, and to the parts round the kidney, near which organ the abscess ceased to be traceable, and close to wliich the pus ran out. Tlus abscess contained liardly any quantity of matter, was separated by healthy tissue from a healthy spine, and was surrounded by an unusual degree of tliick- emug of the parts, differing in all these respects from a lumbar abscess of the common kind, whilst small granules of lymph were found in great quantity, both in the abscess in the parietes of the abdomen as well as that in the loins. The veins cut across in the abdomen appeared to be healthy. In the lungs, here and there, detached spots of inflammation, confined to particular lobides, were observable, in some of winch infiltration of serum, whilst in others distinct purulent infiltration, had taken place. The abdo- minal viscera, on external examination, and the kidneys on sec- tion, appeared to be healthy, the parts on the whole appearing rather pale than otherwise. 3. A man applied one morning at the singery with a small fluctu- ating swelling between the sixth and seventh ribs of the right side. It looked like a common abscess. The dresser opened it, and a considerable quantity of matter flowed, and also came in a jet, when the man coughed. Tlie man had a diseased rib, and an abscess in his pleura, without any affection of the lung, except a diminished quantity of air in it: the opening reraaiiied fistulous, discharging a small quantity of matter and bone. 4. A pale feeble man was admitted with a tumor, partly fluctuat- ing, and partly elastic, betw een the cartilages of the fifth and sixth right ribs. 1 < looked and felt very like an abscess; but the man had