AFFECTIONS AND INJURIES OF ARTERIES AND VEINS, 151 existed; the artery was tied above and below this cut^ and the wound allowed to suppurate. No distinct cavity or anem-ism was found. In about tlu’ee weeks the patient was well. 2. A person was admitted labouring under a small aneurism of the radial artery, from a wound with a pair of scissars made six weeks previously. The womid had been plastered up, and the aneurism began to form one month since. It was now about as large as a kidney bean, and situated just where the pulse is felt. A ligature was applied above the aneurism. On the sixth day the swelling was fii-m, without fluetuation or pulsation; the radial artery, between the thumb and forefinger, had also ceased to pid- sate. On the ninth day the aneiu’ism became firm and solid. In the extremities, when two large vessels run side by side, the commiuiications are large and frequent. These communications are important in many ways, but they are to be particularly remembered in those cases where ligatm’es are applied for wounds, as it may happen that a branch may enter between the wound and the ligature, if the ligature is not applied close to the wound :— A boy, let at. 10 years, was admitted, imder Mr. Stanley, into Pitcairn’s ward, in the summer of 1838, labouring under a woimd of the posterior tibial artery, from a bit of glass entering it near the ankle-joint. The artery was cut down upon and exposed; a small womid was found in it, but in addition, for a short distance above, the artery was found to be separated from the surrounding tissues; the ligature above was therefore applied, not close to the wound, but on that part of the artery which was connected to the surrounding tissues; one ligature being thus placed above, and another below the wound. When the tourniquet was removed, some little, but not material, oozing took place : the boy was then put to bed. In half an hour, however, the wound bled freely, and was opened. The blood flowed from the old orifice as freely as before the apphcation of the ligatm-e: a strong hgatm-e was now placed close to the wound, on the bare part of the ai’tery : the bleeding stopped, the boy got well gradually, and in a few weeks was discharged. The points of interest here are, the situation of the ligature and