180 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. 4th day from accident. —The coiigli occurred less frequently, but still retained its peculiar character. 6th day.—The cough is very frequent. The rhonchus is now audible on both sides, but loudest on the right side and lower down. The quantity of air admitted into the right lung is now much increased. The child was now taken home by the parent, and brought to be looked at occasionally. No particular change took place till about the 9th day, when the cliild was seized vdth an attack of acute bronchitis and inflammatory fever. A loud rhonchus was audible equally on the two sides in the large tubes, the air entering the vesicular structure of both lungs equally, but vdth general sibilus. The chest was every where resonant on percussion. The peculiar cough and occasional paroxysms still continued. No remedies except some leeches to the chest were employed, in consequence of the obstinacy of the parent. The cliild became gradually more and more feeble, lost its sleep at night in consequence of the frequency of the cough, and sunk on the 19th day, apparently in a fit of cougliiug. The chest was examined the follovdng morniug. The heart on its right side was distended with dark blood, as well as the large vessels connected with it. The left lung was emphysematous over a considerable portion of its external surface, from general dilatation of the cells. The lower lobe of the right lung was solidified, with small depositions of pus in its substance; the remaining portion of the right lung was rather oedematous. The trachea and large bronchi were full of puriform mucus, and their mucous membrane was also considera- bly reddened. On cutting open the bifurcation of the trachea, a pebble, white and rounded, of an oblong shape, larger at its upper end, and of the size of a kidney bean, was found loose, and easily extracted. The thyroid gland was of considerable size, but the isthmus connecting the two lobes lay one or two rings below the cricoid cartilage; the thymus gland, however, touched the lower edge of the thyroid gland with its cornua, leaving oidy a very small space in the mesial line of the anterior surface of the trachea exposed. The veins ramifying on the thymus and thyroid glands were also of