ABSCESSES OE THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. 191 fell on Ills back. He went home, and remained quiet for a day, when he took a moderate dose of calomel and colocynth, followed by an ounce of Epsom salts. Erom this he was most violently purged, and bent double with pain. This purging ceased to a certain degree, but not entirely, till a week since. Three weeks since (one week from the accident) the abscess first began to form a swelling on the abdomen. During the few days after admission this man lay in the lowest possible condition, and each day seemed to be his last; stiU he hved on, hardly sleeping at aU, and vomiting nearly every thing which was given him. On the evening of the fifth day he was suddenly seized with intense pain in the abdomen, increased on pressm’e, and at times so severe that he thought himseK to be dying. Some laudanum, and the application of twenty leeches to his abdomen, reheved him. On the following day (sixth) he took a drop of Croton oil, and had some copious evacuations, by which he was relieved, and vomited less frequently. On the eighth he took another drop, and now vomited less frequently, and took a small quantity of food. On the ninth day he was much easier, and in making water felt something give way in the wound. On lifting up the poultice he found faecal matter issuing from the abscess, wliich on cougliing ran out so freely that it covered the bed. He went on gaining strength, more or less faecal matter being, however, discharged from the wound. Ever since about the tenth day from admission a urinous fluid had been dis- charged from the abscess together with the faeces. It was not clear how far tins was real urine or not, till about the twentieth day, when the foUoAving circumstances removed the doubt: — 20th day.—His bladder had been irritable for some time, the urine being turbid, occasionally bloody, and containing at times so much solid matter as to constitute masses. On tlris day complete retention of urine occurred, which was relieved by the copious evacuation of urine through the wound into the bed, hardly any being discharged from the m-ethra. The fluids discharged from the wound and urethra had both the same smell, both were equally alkaline, and both contained large quantities of adhesive matter. This man remained in the hospital till April (four months).