4 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUROERY. and it even seemed that the omentum in the sac had gone on growing in fatness as readily as if it had been in the abdomen. However adherent the omentum might be in any one of these cases to the fundus or the sides of the sac, it was free at its neck. In the cases where the omentum exercised a prejudicial in- fluence on the bowels contained in the abdomen, it was either attached by one broad, or by one or two narrow adhesions, near the neck of the sac, or in the sac itself, and assumed a more or less cord-like form, excepting, perhaps, just the part between the ring and fundus of the sac, which, by its enlargement, as com- pared vdth the portion in the ring, resembled the tassel of a bell- rope. This appeared to be by far the most serious form of pro- trusion of omentum, whilst the broad fatty masses adlierent to many parts of the sac at once, though comphcating the operation, appeared generally to produce all their mischief in the sac, and thus within reach. Patients almost always lay aside their truss at night, and gene- rally wdth imjDunity. In tliree cases, howxver, strangulation occurred wliilst the patient was in bed, with the truss ofi*. The patients admitted have often had the rupture strangulated for a considerable period. Of thirty patients operated on, the following are the periods which had elapsed between the strangu- lation of the hernia and the admission of the patient:— In 7 cases not more than thirteen houi’s had elapsed. 2 cases were operated on during the 1st day. Of these same tliirty cases which v^ere operated on at these periods, the taxis had been tried already before admission in six, by one medical man, and in two cases by two. Such v^ere some of the serious drawbacks in this class of cases, wdiere an early operation and as little handhng as possible before operation have been always found so advantageous. The circumstances just mentioned are connected as much with 3 1 9 5 1 2d day. 3d day. 4th day. 5th day. 7th day. 15th day.