,ON FRACTURES OF THE RIBS, LOWER JAW, AND PELVIS. 37 Hydr. c Greta gr. v. every six hours. C. C. ad jviij. behind the ears. Oct. 7 th.—The pain in the head, winch was slight, has now ceased ; pulse feeble; there is a doubtful contraction of the right pupd.—A bhster to be repeated at the nape of the neck. Oct. 8th.—The blister has produced sHght strangury. She can nov/ observe the hght of the candle; when held in such a po- sition that the hght falls on the nasal half of the right retina, the candle appears like a hght-coloured spot. The breath has a slight mercurial fcetor.—To continue as before. Oct. 9th.—She can now observe an object di'awn between the wdndow and her eyes. The pupils are stiU dilated, especially the left. Mercurial fcetor slight. Oct. 10th.—She can distinguish a hand, glove, or hat, held before her; the glove from the hand, and the inside of the hat from the outside: these are seen most distinctly with the right eye, the pupil of which contracts distinctly after exposure to the glare -of a candle; the left pupil does not distinctly contract. The mercurial fcetor is distinct; the gums are, however, hardly affected. Oct. 16th.—She continued the Hych’. c. Greta in small doses till the 15th, and has had a third blister applied. The mercury has affected the gums, and produced slight ptyahsm. The union of the fractured jaw has proceeded favourably, except the forma- tion of a small abscess opposite the fracture. She can now count the panes of glass in the window, tell the finger from the thumb, and distinguish black from white. The right pupil is more con- tracted than the left, the right being in a condition midway between contraction and dilatation.—To apply another bhster, and to leave off all medicine. Oct. 21st.—Tlie jaw is uniting favourably. The gums are still sore from the mercury. The pupils arc much less dilated; the irides are still, liowever, narrow at the upper part. She can now read large letters, and distinguish the features of persons standing near her. Oct. 29th.—She has not taken any more medicine. The pupils arc still somewhat dilated, l)ut moveable. She can distinguish writing from printing, ajid the larger letters from each other.