272 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. cular and swelled, but marked with very few papules, if any. In those obstinate cases, and fortunately they are not common, the patience of both parties is put to a hard trial, for this extreme irritability exists after the subsidence of the acute part of the affection of the conjunctiva, and causes extreme annoyance. The employment of tartar emetic ointment on the nape of the neck sometimes gives more relief than any other means, although the relief from this may be only partial. Iritis is common amongst the syphilitic patients admitted into St. Bartholomews Hospital, and is seen in all its stages. The description of the affection is not here introduced, but only a general summary of the effects of mercury, as observed on a con- siderable number of persons labouring under tliis affection. The greater number of patients affected with syphilitic iritis labour under rather an acute attack; occasionally, however, a much milder form is met with, resembling rheumatic iritis, and requir- ing less active treatment. In these cases the patient complains of simple dimness of vision, with watering of the eye, which, on examination, presents a few vessels running towards the cornea on the sclerotic coat, to form a ring of a very pale rose colour round the corneal margin. The motions of the iris are rather sluggish, and the lustre of this structure is less bright than natural. Tliis loss of colour sometimes seems to depend partially on the opacity of the anterior chamber. The degree of fever and constitutional disturbance is so sbght as to be hardly perceptible. In this state the eye will continue for two or three days, the disease not advancing at aU, or very slowly. The patients in whom it occurred have been weak feeble persons, and not able to bear ivell any very active treatment. The employment of a moderate cupping, or a few leeches on the temple, were sufficient in some cases to remove the disease, more especially conjoined with the employment of a blister behind the ear. In some, how- ever, the administration of calomel and opium was required to arrest the progress of this affection, after the other means liad proved ineffectual. Cases of chronic iritis, and iritis lingering in a sbght degree after the acute part of the attack has subsided, are admitted occa- sionally. In some of these cases the disease has gone on slowly.