32 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. applied to the sternum to relieve the difficulty of breathing, which was considerable. 3rd day.—^The child is decidedly stronger this day, and not sinking from weakness. She is, however, somewhat feverish and flushed; the tongue is furred, the skin hot, and the pulse decidedly hard. During yesterday and this day (28th), from her changing her position from time to time, a complete auscultation was ob- tained, which, though obtained collectively on two days, may be taken as the condition for the second and tlm-d days. She can lie on the back or left side, but beHeves herself not to be able to lie on the right side. The inspiratory motions of the right side of the chest are very great and forcible, the respiratory sounds louder than natural, but purely vesicular, and the resonance on percussion uniformly good. The left side presents, however, a remarkable contrast. The left side, before and behind, is dull on percussion, the apex being the least dull part; air can, however, be heard entering the lung beliind, at the upper as weU as at the middle part, in very small quantity, and in front in the apex, and that, more freely. No bronchial breathing, bronchophony, or crepitation in any marked or decided form, can be heard. There is a very pecuhar thi-iOing feel perceptible over the upper and left subclavicular space, the cause of which is not very clear. 6th day.—She now appears easier, and breathes with less diffi- culty. The left side of the chest stiU moves less freely than the right, but not very much less than in the natui-al degree. The upper tliird of the lung admits air more freely than before, and quite to the vesicular structure, but sounding distant. Per- cussion is very duU in front on the left side, but least duU towards the axiUa. There is no unnatural accompanying sound. Only the front part can be hstened to. 12th day.—The two sides move equally; the left side in front admits more air, but not so much as the right. The lateral part admits air all the way down to the ninth rib; but behind, the lower part admits no air, and in the middle the breathing is loud and rough. The apex behind caimot be listened to. Percussion of the left side is in front rather duUer than on the right; in the lateral part much didler, and behind quite didl. Child easier and more comfortable.