84< CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. the effused blood liad been absorbed^ he still complained of pain in the lumbar region. His back was now accurately examined, when the spines of the twelfth dorsal, and first lumbar vertebra, were found to project considerably, forming in fact a considerable angle, with a depression between them, into wliich the finger could be pressed. The curve was so great and sudden as to resemble much that resulting from organic disease of the spine, tiis os calcis was now found upon examination to be fractured. During about the fourth and fifth day from admission, this man found some difficulty in emptying his bladder, the ni'ine of which, when drawn off, was found to be natural in appeai’ance, and acid. Nov. £2.—The os calcis imited fii’mly, and the man has walked about the ward for some time. The projection of the spines of the vertebr® is stiU the same in all respects. The man complains occasionally of difficulty of passing his urine, and of weakness in the back, and Hes down for a considerable part of the day on account of tliis, as well as the pain in the back and left leg. When walking he bends forwards con- siderably, and shakes on his legs. As regards his previous history, he states that his back was previously quite straight, and that his health has been sufficiently good to enable him to work as a sawyer. There has been occasion- ally some pain in his back now and then, but nothing of a severe nature. Three cases very similar to this are recorded. In the following case tliis accident happened from a fall back- wards, but was so similar to the cases of falling forwards in a bent position, that it may justly be placed with them. A man,* aged 32, fell on a heap of rubbish, on his pos- teriors, and hurt his back. On examination, it was obvious that the spine formed an acute projection at the junction of the dorsal and lumbar jiortion, and that at the summit of this projec- tion there was a space of nearly two fingers^ breadth between the spinous processes. He complained of great pain, and was unable to move his legs, or expel his urine. On the second day he began to move bis left leg, and bad his bowels open. On the third day * Syme: Edijibrn-jili Med. and .Surg. Joiuaial, vol. xiivii. p. 335.