98 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. unfrequently in disease, which brings them under the care of the physician, but engaged in a trade, they are liable to accidents, and are then found in the surgical wards. Here their accident alone brings them; they believe themselves to be otherwise well, but the condition of body wliich their habits have estabhshed, though it may not have rendered disease visible by its effects, may already have done enough to prevent their rallying from even a slight accident; for the power which has enabled them to go smootlily and actively on up to the present time, may not be sufficient to overcome any sudden check, or to correct an injury in the body itself. The stout unliealthy drayman, who takes much of his nourish- ment in beer, differs often as much in sickness as in health from the pale and weakly ostler or waiter, who drinks what he can get, and works at irregular hours. The drayman is rare as a hospital patient, except for a wound on the leg, or a fracture; and then, if liis ailments are accompanied with erysipelas or delirium tre- mens, they are often of the most destructive and violent kind: liis life sometimes being lost within a few days from the sudden prostration of his powers, by extensive sloughing of the limb, or the continuous violence of the dehiium. The ostler and tavern waiter, vdth others that come very near them in habits, the knacker and the nightman, are very common hospital patients, for little tilings, but those very hard to cure. Bad ulcers of the legs with irregular inflammation round them, abscesses from slight causes and womids, which are tardy of healing, form their chief ailments, whilst low erysipelas occurs very readily in them, and they bear no active treatment. The bad leg of tliis last class is sometimes very severe, and bores deeply and widely amongst the surrounding tissues. In the sore leg of a nightman the ante- rior tibial artery burst, and in a similar disease of a stable-man the posterior tibial artery gave way from the extension of ulcera- tion, and in both cases the patients ultimately died. The effects of constant diinking tell by the general change on the habit and power, as well as by the production of disease; but it is extremely hard to say what degree of drinking short of the production of disease is hurtful. That it does teU appears to he beyond doubt, but every now and then some habitual drunkard