210 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SUUGEUY. certain number of superficial sores, to one lialf of which the mercurial treatment is employed, and to the other haK the simple or non-mercurial plan, the cure y'ill be most certain, most rapid, and most complete, where mercmy is given, or where it is with- held ? The answer to this question may be stated thus. Wliere the ulceration or excoriation is extremely slight, and often getting well of itself, the simplest of aU means, namely cleanliness, is often all that is necessary; when the ulceration is decided, and so extensive as to form a distinct sore, the emplojunent of mild mercurial applications to the part, with the exhibition of Plummer^s piU, or blue pill, in small doses, is attended with the same success as the simple treatment, and with tliis great additional advantage, that fewer cases will be found to get into a slow languid condition, and to remain on hand ; in fact, that the mercurial treatment cures a set of cases which the simple treatment hardly touches, or affects but slowly. The employment of mercury in tliis mild manner, namely the local application of the black wash, and the administration of blue pill once or twice a day, and continued for some time, is generally sufficient for the mere healing of the sore. There are, however, a class of cases winch require a more decided plan of treatment, which, though not regular indurated sores, are benefited by the treat- ment required for that form of disease. These cases are not very numerous, but occur from time to time, the indication for the employment of mercury not being clear from any pecidiar appear- ance of the sore, but the propriety of such treatment being sug- gested by the slow progress and continuance of the unliealthy appearance of the part, under other plans of treatment. These cases require to be treated in the same manner as the indurated sore next to be noticed, under wliich head the employment of mercury in primary disease is more particularly described. The form of ulceration just described includes the great mass of primary syphilitic ulcers; the iudm’ated ulcer, however, is far from being rare, and although a week or a fortnight sometimes passes by vdthout a fresh case of tliis kind being admitted, yet tliis form of sore may be seen sufficiently often to be very well known. These sores are met with in both sexes, and occasionally exist at the same time as simple sores.