242 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSEKVATIONS IN SURGERY. only to apply for the cure of their disease when the pain of it is no longer to be endured^ or the mere inconvenience of it too greatj exhibit the most severe forms of secondary ulceration of the skin. Tliis class seem to labour under such severity of disease from their neglect and other incidental circum- stances. There are, however, some whose sufferings are nearly as great as these, in whom no such mifavourable circumstances exist, and whose health, until they are reduced by the disease, is not bad: the disease itself in these cases is of a particu- lai’ly severe form, or the constitution of the patient is naturally of such a kind that these persons suffer in an unusually severe manner. It is amongst persons labouring under these forms of cutaneous disease, with other secondary symptoms, that the evil effects of mercury have been described as occurring. These severe ulce- rations have been often attributed to mercury in so bold and decided a manner, that every case of this kind has been sup- posed to depend on this cause. The wards of a large hospital are especially suited for settling a question of this kind, inas- much as patients are received from all quarters, and after every variety of treatment, and the same patients treated in that hos- pital and elsewhere are admitted at many different and distant periods. The employment of mercury, necessary for the cure of sjqiliihtic disease, with attention to the health at the same time, does not appear to have any influence in the production of these severe forms of ulceration, and the occurrence of them is not frequent in persons so treated. The patients admitted under this form of dis- ease are not by any means those in whom mercury has been cau-. tiously employed for the primary disease, and completely cured, but are generally those in whom some of the above-mentioned causes exist. In fact, no evidence really can be found that the cautious use of mercury has any thing to do with the production of these ulcerations, but rather that the complete cure of the pri- mary disease by such means is one of the most certain means of preventing their occurrence. The cautious use of mercmy seems to have been undeseiwedly