THE i LONDON MEDICAL GAZETTE; I OR, SJountal of piartical iHetJirme. A NEW SERIES, UNDER NEW EDITORS. In M’eekly Numbers, demy 8vo. printed in double columns, 8d.; or 9d. stamped for transmission by post; also in Monthly I’arts, 2s. 8d. or 3s. id. each. \_PublisUed every Friday Morning. I 1 I From the “Britannia” “Twenty-two yearsago themedical profession in this country bad no hebdomadal publication, its journals beinp eitliere.xclusively quarterly or monthly. At the present time, however, there are no less than four weekly medical periodicals published in Enarland, of which three are Metropolitan, and one Provincial. “ Among; these the ‘ London Medical Gazette’ has ever held a deservedly distin- g;uished position. Its hig-h character for re- spectability was originally gained for it by the elevated and gentlemanly tone of feeling which pervaded and characterised its opinions—a tone which was in unison with the feelings of the most respectable members of the profes- sion, and which was to be expected from the well-known high professional and moral cha- racter of those who originally projected and were connected with the journal; for though their names have never been publicly stated, yet they have long been well known to the profession. “ But another circumstance has contributed to the distinguished character which the ‘ iMedical Gazette’ has so long enjoyed: we refer now to the number and intrinsic value of its original contributions, among the authors of which are to be found those occupying the highest position in the profession, and de- servedly enjoying the most distinguished re- putation both at home and abroad. These gentlemen have found in this periodical a speedy means of laying before their profes- sional brethrenandthepublic their opinions and their experience, without incurringthe possible charge of sanctioning, by their support, e.x- treme political opinions. “In the thirty-five volumes of the ‘ Medical Gazette’ which are now before the public, will be found a vast mass of sound and valuable medical and surgical information, which cannot fail to be of the greatest service to all members of the profession, to assist in extend- ing the benefits and enlarging the resources of medical science, and of thus proving of vital advantage to the public. “A considerable number of the essays, lec- tures, &c. which have been published in this work, unlike much of the matter which appears in weekly periodicals, possess a permanent interest and value; and in consequence many of them have been collected and reprinted in a separate form, ft would be tedious to enu- 7iicrate the whole of these; but we may spe- cially mention that Sir B. Brodie’s ‘ Lectures on Diseases of the Urinary Organs,’ Dr. Wat- son’s ‘ lectures on the I rinciples and Practice of Physic,’ Dr. Pereira’s ‘ Elements of Ma- teria .Medica,’ Dr. Robert Lee’s ‘ Lectures on the Theory ;ind Practice of Midwifery,’ Ur. Graves’s ‘Clinical Medicine,’ Dr. Latham’s f Sejitemher 27, 1845. ‘Lectures on Subjects connected with Clinical Medicine,’ and a host of other standard works on medicine, surgery, materia medica, and midwifery, originally apiteared in the form of lectures in the ‘ London Medical Gazette.’ “ In May last the proprietors commenced a new, enlarged, and otherwise greatly improved series of tliis periodical, of which nineteen numbers have now appeared. The form and size of the journal remain unchanged ; but the number of its pages has been augmented from thirty-two to forty-eight. At the same time great efforts have been made to render every department of the work more elfective; and, in order to accommodate country renders, a stamped edition is now published for trans- mission by post. “One important novel feature introduced into the new series relates to the Microscope. The editors have very wisely, as we conceive, resolved to bestow augmented attention and space on the results of microscopical investi- gations ; and have commenced a series of very valuable papers on microscopic pathology, taken principally from Vogel’s leones ‘ Histo- logiae Pathologica;,’ and most richly illustrated by woodcuts. At the present time, when so much attention is being devoted to the mi- croscopic study of healthy and morbid tissues, this series bids fair to be of exceedingly great interest and value; and we hope by and by to see it collected and republished in a separate form. “ In all the different departments of the journal the improvements effected by tlie presenr editors are very manifest. The ori- ginal communications, while they retain their usual high character and interest, are more numerous than formerly ; and the reports furnished by some of the leading hospital physicians and surgeons are peculiarly valuable from their authenticity. Additional attention is also paid to the important subject of vital statistics, as well as to that of forensic medi- cine, - a topic alike interesting to the medical and legal professions and to the public. “ We congratulate the projirietors on the greatly improved condition of their journal, which is to be recommended to the notice of alt persons interested in the progress of the medical sciences; and we congratulate also the profession on having a periodical to which they can confidently look for the latest disco- very in medicine, surgery, materia medica, and chemistrj;; for the soundest opinions of the most eminent and thoughtful practitioners, and for copious and authentic information on all subjects connected with the medical sci- ences,—which, from their importance, must always be of paramount and solid interest.” Subscription to the Stamped Edition, £l. 19s. per anmnn, or 9s. 9d. per tpiurter, payable in advance. Orders for the Stamped Bditlon received by all.Newsveuders.