MERCUKY AND IODINE IN VENEREAL DISEASES. 255 use. Great caution appears to be necessary in the employment of the medicine^ for not only is the low condition of the patient, which generally exists in these cases, very much aggravated by salivation, but patients labouring under these lai'ge ulcers are salivated very rapidly, and with great severity. Wliere sypliihs continues for many years, progressing from bad to worse, and gradually reducing the patient, disease of the larynx is not uncommon. This affection is, however, rarely seated in the larynx so exclusively as where inflammation occurs under common circumstances in the same part, but generally forms a part of extensive ulcerative disease, which includes the pharynx, epiglottis, and neighbouring parts. Acute laryngitis, however, does occasion- ally occur in syphilitic patients; but the more common affection is a chronic destructive ulceration of the pharynx, larynx, and epiglottis. A case of apparently simple acute laryngitis occurred in a female in the syphihtic wards of St. Bartholomew^s Hospital, which, though severe, yielded to the ordinary means, and chiefly to the local abstraction of blood. In this case no opportunity occurred of ascertaining the exact condition of the parts, in reference to the existence of ulceration, and the specific nature of the disease remains necessarily a matter of doubt; there might have been even here an ulcer of these parts beyond the reach of sight, but the general features of the case resembled those of common laryngitis. The most common appearances presented in syphilitic disease of the larynx are a mixture of extensive cicatrization with ragged ulceration. The parts destroyed previous to death may include the epiglottis, the arytsenoid cartilages, and a very considerable part of the soft tissues situated above the chordae vocales; or the destruction may be less extensive, and more remarkable for the deformity arising from the thickening and irregularity dependent on the unnatural union of the cicatrized parts.* The firmness of the cicatrices of the diseased parts, the extensive destruction which has taken place, and the history of the case, indicate the length of time which this ulcerative disease of * A very complete scries of preparations of these changes is cited hy Mr. Houston in the Catalogue of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons iu Ireland. C. a. 27, 3(5, 40, 41, and *C. a. G3, 05.