CIRCUMSTANCES INFLUENCING CONVALESCENCE OF PATIENTS. 107 In's skin, pulse, or any external part, which appear unaffected, and not in an unhealthy condition, the skin being moist, and the pulse not very different from the standard of health. He lies in a comfortable position on his back, sleeps at times, passes his water and motions regularly, but only notices surrounding objects by a stare of the eyes without saying any thing, but resisting attempts to move liis limbs, and more partieularly to open his mouth. He is a brieklayer, and of intemperate habits, but was always well till tliree days before admission, when he fell out of a cart, cut the side of his head, and was brought home insensible, in which condition he remained tiU admission, and from that period imtil about Eebruary 17th. He passed his motions once under liim, answered all remarks by ‘'‘'yes'’^ or “no,” without any ap- parent idea of their meaning, but managed to make his wants just inteUigible to the nurse; beyond this condition he did not however advance. About the 17 th the sister of the ward gave him a little gin, and he brightened up in so marked a manner, that it was re- solved to treat hhn vith some form of beer or spirits. Previously to this he had been treated with nutritious food, aperient medi- cine, and two blisters at the nape of the neck. On the 17 th he was ordered to take a pint of porter daily, which he continued till his discharge, on the 10 th of March. During this period he gradually improved, except for one or two •days when the porter was omitted. His gradual recovery may be thus described, beginning at the 17 th of Pebruary. He seemed at first to be eonscious of surrounding objects and persons, but not able to recognise their distinctive characters, nearly all seeming much alike. Questions put to liim attracted lus attention, but did not elicit any other answer than “ yes” or “ no.” In a few more days he began to attempt to give answers, which indicated comprehension of the question, as well as power of reasoning; these answers began correctly, and continued for two or three words, but then terminated abruptly. Though he seemed to have arrived at the just conclusion when he began to speak, his mind appeared to be incapable of continuing its action to the end of the comparatively long period required for the ex-