15 ON HT3UNIA, ing a weight. The pain was not relieved by the reduction of the swelling; he still complained of uneasiness in the right iliac fossa. A dose of opening medicine was given, winch at first produced vomiting. The medicuxe was repeated afterwards at intervals, and he retained portions of it without vomiting; but after some hours he vomited again, and rejected a faecal fluid like that usually found in the small intestines. The abdomen became more tender, especially in the right iliac fossa, in which part it more particularly swelled. He slowly died on the following evening of Sunday. On dissection the bow^els were found much distended; there was also some degree of peritonitis, especially near the right iliac fossa. Tlie caecum was lax’ge and loose, with a meso-caeciun. This caecum had been turned wrong way upwards, so that the base pointed upwards and to the right, the continuation into the colon forming an angle in the right ihac fossa, so that the anterior wall of the caecum was applied on the anterior wall of the ascending colon; and the portion of ilium to enter the caecum thus passed between the anterior wall of the ascending colon and the anterior wall of the caecum, which, by the change of position, had become posterior; this portion of small intestine thus acting like a cord, and compressing the ascending colon tightly, had caused the strangulation of the bowels at a point on the distal side of the caecum, which latter bowel, by its distension, formed the swelling in the right fiiac fossa. Young persons labouring under hernia, accompanied with well- marked symptoms, are in general submitted to an early operation; yet even in these cases the propriety of an immediate operation may be a matter of very nice judgment, or circiunstances may occur afterwards, shewing that a little delay would have perhaps been unattended with danger. A stout healthy young woman was admitted, under Mr. Vin- cent, in the autumn of 184-4, labouring under an inguinal rupture of some years^ standing, which had been strangulated twelve hours; she was in pain, was sick, and her bowels were confined. She had taken some opening medicine. She was operated on soon after admission. The sac was thin.