ABSCESSES OF THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. 199 spot, and all containing dark grumons naatter, collected in the cellular tissue beneath the skin. All these abscesses were quite distant from any absorbent gland. In No. 1, Abscesses occurred over the inner condyle, and in the middle of the thigh, as well as on the calf. The original disease was over the great toe. In No. 2, Abscesses occurred over the tendons on the inside of the knee, and in the lower third of the thigh. The original dis- ease was ulceration of the leg. In No. 3, Abscesses occurred just below the tendons on the inside of the knee, and over the inner as well as the outer vastus. The original disease was an ulcer of leg. No suppuration occurred in any of the absorbent glands. Carbuncles are so much relieved by division that it is not common to see the progress of one left to itself. The cavity left after the division of a carbuncle is considerable, but it is nothing compared with the dissection of the surrounding parts, which occurs when no division is practised:— An old infirm Iiishman was admitted under Mr. Lawrence, with two large cai’buncles, one on the right side of the chest, and the other on the side of his neck. The carbuncle on the side was divided freely, and a moderate quantity of blood escaped, but the man became so feeble that it did not seem safe to divide the carbuncle in the neck. He was ordered six ounces of brandy daily, and three grains of quinine tloree times in the day. Under this plan the man got quite well. The carbuncle in the neck sloughed, both in the cellular tissue and skin, exposing the sterno- mastoid, trapezius, omo-hyoideus, and levator anguli scapulae; whilst on the side the parts did httle more than suppurate very freely, and no loss of skin occurred. Cases of poisoning with mercurial precipitate are so rare, that the following case is recorded for that reason, although uncon- nected with the preceding cases :— A woman, aged 19, took on Dec. 1st, 1840, three-halfpence worth of red precipitate, and three halfpence-worth of wliite pre- cipitate, two hours before admission, mixed in rum and water. She felt no pain at the time: in twenty minutes she felt cold and