120 CLINICAL COLLECTIONS AND OBSERVATIONS IN SURGERY. of cellular tissue here ready for the bed of tumors, or for the collection of matter bound down by the most powerful muscles, and lying in absolute contact with the tliin synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Sir Everard Home, in a paper on loose cartilages in joints, alludes to the opinion of Mr. Hunter respecting these substances, and states that the cartilages found ui the knee-joint appeared to him to originate from a deposit of coagulated blood upon the end of one of the bones, wliich had acquired the nature of cartilage, and had afterwards been separated. How far this opinion is borne out by later observations may be doubtful, but the follow- ing case is interesting in relation to the opinion of Mr. Hunter :— A man, about 19 years of age, was admitted luider Mr. Law^- rence, in October, 1840, with great swelling of the synovial mem- brane of one knee-joint, from a fall, in which three men fell together upon his knee. The sw^elhng gradually subsided, and the man went out in about tliree weeks. Tliis man was again admitted under Mr. Lawrence, in the summer of 1841, labouring imder sudden attacks of pain and lameness in the same knee, from a loose cartilage in the joint; these signs having commenced about six weeks previously. An incision was made on the outer side of the knee, and the cartilage removed. This cartilage was flat, of the size of a small broad bean, and had a small process of synovnal membrane attached to one side. The man did quite well. The following cases of lumbar abscess and diseased spine seem to find their most convenient place in connection with diseases of the joints :— Thomas Smith, set. 37, admitted April 25, 1842, under the care of Mr. Lawrence, labouring under a large abscess in the upper part of the right thigh, and a smaller on left side. No curvature of the spine; no impairment of motion from paralysis in a marked degree. He is a foot soldier in the Grenadier Guards, healthy, according to his own account, but has had spitting of blood one year since, and the apex of the left lung admits air imperfectly. Three yeai's since he first felt pain in his back, at times of a very severe na- ture. The right abscess appeared six months since, and the left twelve months since. In May, 1840, the pain in the back was