ABSCESSES OF THE ABDOMEN, HAND, ETC. 197 ecchyinosis, but evidently consisting of cutis altered in colour. During the 23d, the skin on tliis spot, as well as around the part, was converted into a yellow mass, quite dead, and connected to the surrounding integuments by a bluish-black hne, which was continuous almost all round with the dead skin, but broken here and there between the blueish Hne and dead skin by an excavated Hne : tliis dead portion was about tliree inches long and two broad, lying parallel to the crural arch, but about two and a half inches lower down in the thigh. The tliigh was sweUed to nearly twice its diameter around the sore, red, hot, and full of a burning pain. On the 26th, the tlugh, from the hip to the lower tliird, was swelled, hot, and extremely painful j the skin over a space of six inches long, and three broad, was dead, yellow, and surrounded by an irregular groove, winch on its outer side was marked, with brown spots of disorganized skin, and with a general black Hne extending into the surrounding skin; this Hne of demarcation giving exit to thin pus, not forming in any part a line of separa- tion between sound and dead parts, but rather a broken Hne, on one side of which the parts are dead, and on the other dying. The absorbent glands did not appear in any evident manner to share in the disease. Since admission the man has been hot and restless, with very little sleep; his pulse has been frequent, and variable in number, decidedly firm, but not hard iu any positive manner in both arms, but only in one (left), on the 22d. His manner is that of a man under great nervous excitement from the first, vdth a broken, feeble voice, and tremulous motions of the Hmbs. These con- ditions are now extreme; his strength has completely failed, his pulse decidedly feeble, his tongue dry, brown and black, and liis mamier more hurried in aU respects. At first some leeches were applied, and he took saHne and aperient medicine; he now takes quinine, and wine and laudanum at times. Jan. 27.—He is more easy, less haggard, less feverish, and refreshed by more sleep last night. The space formed by the slough is not larger, but has the appearance of being broader from the formation of a deep groove round the slough on the upper edge of the sore, and at its two extremities; the lower edge of the slough presents, however, a less defined Hne, and is still