536 THE ABTEBIES I to equalise the flow of blood to the various portions of the brain ; and, should one or more of the arteries entering into the formation of the circle be temporarily or permanently obstructed, it ensures a flow of blood to the otherwise deprived part through some of the collateral arteries. Thus, if one carotid or one vertebral ia obstructed, the parts supplied by that vessel receive their blood through the circle from the remaining pervious vessels. Indeed, one vertebral artery alone has been found equal to the task of carrying sufficient blood for the supply of the brain after ligature of both the carotids and the other vertebral artery. Further, the circle of Willis is the only medium of communication between the ganglionic or central and the hemispheral or cortical branches of the cerebral arteries, and between the various ganglionic branches themselves. The ganglionic and the cortical branches form separate and distinct systems, and do not anastomose with each other; and the ganglionic, moreover, are so-called end-vessels, and do not anastomose with the neighbouring ganglionic branches. ! I THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY | The subclavian artery on the right side arises at the bifurcation of the innomi-i nate behind the right ster^o-clavicular articulation. On the left side it arises from j the arch of the aorta, and as far as the inner border of the scalenus anticus is! situated deeply in the chest. The first portion of the left subclavian artery isj described separately. j Beyond the inner border of the scalenus anticus the artery has the same rela-1 tions on both sides. It courses from this point beneath the clavicle in a slight ■ curve across the root of the neck to the outer border of the first rib, there to endj in the axillary artery. Thus the course of the artery in the neck will be indicatec I by a line drawn from the sterno-clavicular joint in a curve with its convexity upwards to the middle of the clavicle. The height the artery rises in the neck varies. It ii i perhaps most commonly about half an inch above the clavicle. If the curved lin( | above mentioned is drawn to represent part of the circumference of a circle havin{ ! its centre at a point on the lower margin of the clavicle an inch and a half fron j the sternal end of that bone, the line of the artery will be sufficiently well indicatec 11 for all practical purposes. In its course the artery arches over the dome of thj pleura and gains the groove on the upper surface of the first rib by passing betwee] j the scalenus anticus and medius muscles. The artery is accompanied by the sub j clavian vein, the latter vessel lying in front of the scalenus anticus, anterior to th; artery, and on a slightly lower plane. The subclavian artery is divided into three portions—as it lies internal t( behind, or external to, the scalenus anticus muscle. , THE FIRST OR THORACIC PORTION OF THE LEFT j SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY j The left subclavian artery (fig. 828) arises from the termination of the transverf | portion of the arch of the aorta. The first part of the left subclavian is conscj quently longer than the first part of the right, which arises at the bifurcation < | the innominate opposite the right sterno-clavicular joint. The artery at its orig:| is situated deeply in the thorax, and as it arises from the aorta is on a plane po terior to and a little to the left of the thoracic portion of the left common caroti It first ascends almost vertically out of the chest, and at the root of the nei