MANDIBULAB DIVISION OF THE FIFTH NEBVF 805 the submaxillary ganglion, and to the hypoglossal nerve. These have already been described. [b) Twigs are distributed to the interval between the tongue and gums, and ramify in the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. [c) A twig enters the sublingual gland. This twig conveys secreto-motor fibres from the chorda tympani to the gland. [d) The lingual branches are a series of twigs which are given off by the lingual nerve in the last stage of its course as it is passing forwards towards the tip of the tongue. They pierce the musculature at the side of the tongue, and proceed to the dorsum of the middle and anterior part of that organ, where they end in the filiform and fungiform papillae. Submandibular (Submaxillary) Ganglion The submandibular ganglion is a small reddish fusiform body which is placed j between the mylo-hyoid and hyo-giossus muscles at the outer side of Wharton's duct. It is connected to the lingual nerve by two communications, an anterior and a posterior. The posterior communication contains the motor and sensory roots of the ganglion. The anterior communication represents a branch passing from the ganglion to the lingual nerve. The motor root is derived from the chorda tympani. The sensory root is furnished by the lingual. The ganglion : also receives a sympathetic root from the plexus of the sympathetic which accom- panies the facial artery. Branches.—The ganglion furnishes five or six twigs to the submandibular !(submaxillary) gland, and gives minute twigs to Wharton's duct, which accompany the duct to its termination. From the fore part of the ganglion a branch passes to the lingual nerve, and through this branch fibres from the chorda tympani are conveyed to the sublingual gland and to the tongue. Sublingual ganglion.—A small ganglion has been described by Blandin and others on the twig to the sublingual gland. According to Bose, it is not constant. Otic Ganglion 1 The otic ganglion, or ganglion of Arnold, is a small reddish-grey body which placed immediately below the foramen ovale, internal to the mandibular division 3f the trigeminal nerve. The cartilage of the Eustachian tube is placed close to its inner side, and the middle meningeal artery is behind it. The ganglion is oval in Lorm, and compressed in its coronal diameter. It is greatest in its sagittal diameter, vhich is about four millimetres. J Roots.—The mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve supplies one or more 'oots to the otic ganglion; these roots probably contain both sensory and motor fibres, and are associated with the nerve to the internal pterygoid. The lesser iuperficial petrosal nerve enters the ganglion, being a motor (or, more properly, liferent) root. The ganglion receives a sympathetic root from the plexus which lurrounds the middle meningeal artery. I Branches.—The otic ganglion furnishes muscular twigs to the tensor palati and :ensor tympani; these twigs', especially the former, pass for the most part from the iQandibular division of the fifth nerve to the muscles without interruption in the ^lerve-cells of the ganglion. It also gives communicating branches to the auriculo- emporal nerve and to the chorda tympani. ' SIXTH OE ABDUCENT NERVE The sixth or abducent nerve arises from an approximately spherical cluster of l^erve-cells which is placed between the grey matter of the floor of the fourth