LACHBYMAL APPABATUS 905 loosely applied lobules, and lies immediately over the outer third of the upper conjunctival fornix, reaching outwards as far as the external canthus. Each subdivision of the gland possesses several excretory ducts, which all open on the outer part of the upper fornix conjunctivae, about four millimetres above the upper border of the tarsus. Those of the superior gland, three or four in number, pass between the lobules of the lower gland ; the outermost duct is the largest, and opens at the level of the external canthus. The ducts of the inferior gland in part discharge themselves into those of the upper, but there are also several fine ducts from this subdivision that run an independent course. Near the inner canthus are the two puncta lachrymalia, upper and lower, each situated at the summit of its papilla. The top of each papilla curves backwards towards the conjunctival sac, so that the puncta are well adapted for their function of draining oft' any fluid collecting there. The canaliculi lachrymales extend from the puncta to the lachrymal sac. The lumen at the punctum is horizontally oval, from its lips being slightly compressed antero-posteriorly ; the lumen of the lower punctum is somewhat larger than that of the upper. As the lower papilla is a little further from the inner canthus than the upper, the corresponding canaliculus is longer. Fig. 492.—Lachrymal Apparatus. (After Schwalbe.) On tracing either canaliculus from its origin, we find that at first it runs nearly vertically for a short distance, then bends sharply towards the nose, and I finally courses more or less horizontally, converging slightly towards its fellow, I and not infrequently joining it before opening into the sac. The calibre varies considerably in this course, being narrowest a short distance from the punctum, ' and widest at the bend, from which point it again narrow^s very gradually as it I nears the sac. The w^all of the canaliculus consists mainly of elastic and white ! fibrous tissue, lined internally by epithelium, and covered externally by striated muscle (part of the orbicularis). The muscle-fibres run parallel to the canaliculus I in the horizontal part of its course; but they are placed, some in front and some [ behind, around the vertical part, acting here as a kind of sphincter. Just before ^ their termination, the canaliculi pierce the periosteal thickening that constitutes the posterior limb of the inner palpebral ligament. The lachrymal sac lies in a depression in the bone at the inner angle of the I orbit (the lachrymal fossa). It is vertically elongated, and narrows at its upper and lower ends; the upper extremity or f undus is closed, while the lower is continuous [directly with the nasal duct. Laterally, the sac is somewhat compressed, so that its antero-posterior is greater than its transverse diameter. The canaliculi, either separately or by a short common tube, open into a bulging on the outer surface 1