POSTEBIOB TIBIAL 627 fasciae. At the ankle it lies beneath the internal annular ligament, and at its bifur- cation also beneath the abductor hallucis. A line drawn from the centre of the popliteal space to a spot midway between the internal malleolus and point of the heel will indicate its course. Eelations.—Anteriorly, from above downwards, it lies successively on the tibialis posticus, the flexor longus digitorum, the posterior surface of the tibia, and the i internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. Posteriorly, it is covered by the skin and fascia, the gastrocnemius and soleus, and the deep or intermuscular fascia of the leg, by which it is tightly bound down to the underlying muscles. It is crossed by the posterior tibial nerve about an inch and a half below its origin and after it has given off its peroneal branch, the nerve first being on the inner, and for the rest of its course on the outer side of the vessel (fig. 374). It is accompanied by two veins, which send numerous anasto- mosing branches across it. In the lower third of the leg the artery is superficial, being only covered by the skin and by the superficial and deep fasciae. I At the inner ankle it lies beneath the internal annular ligament and abductor 1 hallucis upon the internal lateral ligament of the ankle joint. Here it has the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum in front of it, and the posterior tibial nerve and the flexor longus hallucis behind and to its outer side. At times the posterior tibial nerve divides higher than usual, when one branch ! lies on the inner side of the artery, and the other branch on the outer side. The branches of the posterior tibial artery are :—(1) The peroneal; (2) the I muscular ; (3) the medullary ; (4) the cutaneous ; (5) the communicating ; (6) the j malleolar; (7) the calcanean, or internal calcanean; and (8) the terminal, i.e. the external and internal plantar arteries. (1) The peroneal artery (figs. 374, 377) arises from the posterior tibial about one i inch below the lower border of the popliteus muscle. At first forming a gentle I curve with the convexity outwards, it approaches the fibula, and continues its course downwards close to that bone as far as the lower end of the interosseous membrane, where it gives off a large branch, the anterior peroneal, and then, passing over the back of the inferior tibio-fibular joint, terminates by breaking up into a network, which is distributed over the back of the external malleolus and outer surface of the calcaneum (fig. 381). It is accompanied by two venae comites. Relations.—At its upper part it is deeply placed between the tibialis posticus and soleus muscles, and beneath the deep or intermuscular fascia. For the rest of I its course to the ankle it lies beneath, or sometimes in the substance of the flexor longus hallucis in the angle between the fibula and interosseous membrane. After giving off the anterior peroneal, it is only covered, as it lies behind the tibio-fibular articulation, by the integuments and deep fascia, and in this part of its course is sometimes called the posterior peroneal. The branches of the peroneal artery are :—(a) The anterior peroneal; (b) the muscular; (c) the medullary; (d) the communicating; (e) the cutaneous; (/) the j external calcanean ; and (g) the terminal. (a) The anterior peroneal artery arises from the front of the peroneal artery at the lower part of the interosseous space, and, passing through the interosseous membrane, runs downwards over the front of the inferior tibio-fibular joint, beneath the peroneus tertius, and supplies this muscle and the inferior tibio-fibular joint. It anastomoses with the tarsal, metatarsal, and external malleolar branches of the anterior tibial artery, and with the external plantar artery on the outer side of the foot, forming a plexus over the outer ankle (fig. 380). (b) The muscular branches of the peroneal artery are distributed to the con- tiguous muscles, namely: the flexor longus hallucis, the tibialis posticus, the [peronei, and the soleus. (c) The medullary enters the nutrient foramen of the fibula. s s 2 i