4 THE SKELETON I 3. When a bone has only one epiphysis, the nutrient artery is directed towards the extremity which has no epiphysis. 4. The centres of ossification appear earhest for those epiphyses which bear the largest relative proportion to the shafts of the bones to which they belong. 5. When an epiphysis ossifies from more than one centre, the various nuclei coalesce before the shaft and epiphysis consolidate. On section the shaft of a foetal long bone is found occupied with red marrow lodged in bony cells which do not present any definite arrangement. In an adult, the central portion of the shaft of a long bone is filled with fat, or marrow, held together by a delicate reticulum of connective tissue ; the space containing the marrow is the medullary cavity. The expanded ends of the bone contain a network of cancellous tissue, the spaces being filled with red marroiu. This cancellous tissue differs from that of the foetal bone in that it is arranged in a definite manner according to the direction of pressure and tension exerted by muscles. Pressure lines are well shown in the vertebra. In a vertical section through the centrum of a vertebra the fibres of the cancellous tissue are seen to be arranged vertically and horizontally ; the vertical fibres are curved with their concavities directed towards the centre of the bone. The horizontal fibres are slightly curved parallel with the Fig. 2.—A Vertebral Centrum in section to show the Pressure Curves. upper and lower surfaces, with their convexities towards the centre of the bone. They are not so defined as the vertical set. (Wagstaffe.) The arrangement of the cancelli in individual bones is a consequence of the mechanical conditions to which the bone is subject. This is well illustrated in the femur. In the upper end of this bone the cancellous tissue is arranged in divergent curves. One set springs from the inner wall and spreads into the greater trochanter; a second series of curves crosses this and forms a set of Gothic arches, and is continued into the neck and head ; a third set springs from the lower thick wall of the neck and spreads into the upper part of the head, and ends perpen- dicularly in the articular surface mainly along the lines of greatest pressure. A nearly vertical plane of compact tissue projects into the neck of the bone from the inferior cervical tubercle towards the great trochanter. This is placed in the line through which the weight of the body falls, and adds to the stabihty of the neck of the bone : it is said to be liable to absorption in old age. In the lower end of the bone the vertical and horizontal fibres are so disposed as to form a rectangular meshwork. The plan of construction exhibited by the femur is the most complex in the skeleton, but the principles involved are the same in all bones. An interesting disposition of these curves is exhibited in the head of the humerus. The pressure curves radiate in two directions : one set at right angles to the articular surface of the head of the bone ; the other at right angles to the greater tuberosity. The last set, like those in the trochanter, are the result of tension exerted by the muscles attached to these prominences. The shafts of long bones at the time of birth are mainly cylindrical and free from ridges. The majority of the lines and ridges so conspicuous on the shafts of