THE BENAL DUCTS 1053 obturator internus and its fascia behind and below the psoas, finally leaving the pelvic wall to join the bladder. In this position, in the male it is crossed superiorly and internally by the vas deferens, and lies under cover of the free extremity of the j vesicula seniinalis, separated from its fellow by a distance of an inch and a half. ! In the female it runs parallel with, and four to six lines from the cervix uteri, behind the uterine artery, through the uterine plexus of veins, and beneath the root of the broad ligament; finally crossing the upper third of the vagina to reach the vesico- vaginal interspace and pierce the bladder opposite the middle of the vagina. A calculus in the lower end of the tube might be detected by a vaginal examination. The vesical portion, about half an inch in length, runs obliquely downwards j and inwards through the coats of the bladder, and opens on to the mucous surface ! at a distance of about three-quarters of an inch to an inch from its fellow, and from the internal urinary meatus. Structure.—The wall of the ureter is about a twenty-fifth of an inch in thickness, and consists of a mucous membrane, a muscular coat, and an external connective tissue investment. The mucous membrane is longitudinally plicated, and is lined with a multiple layer of transitional epithelium, continuous with that of the papillae above, and with that of the bladder below. Mucous follicles are said to exist in the pelvis renalis. The muscularis is about one-fiftieth of an inch in thickness, and consists of two layers, an external composed of annular fibres, an internal of fibres longitudinally disposed. After the tube has entered the bladder the circular fibres appear as a kind of sphincter around its vesical oiifice ; while the longitudinal fibres spread out to form with those of the opposite side a triangular expanse with its apex at the internal urinary meatus and its base corresponding to a line drawn between the two ureteric orifices. Vessels and nerves.—The arteries of the ureter come from the renal, spermatic, internal iliac, and vesical; the veins terminate in the corresponding trunks; and the lymphatics pass to the pelvic and lumbar glands and into the receptaculum chyli. The nerves are supplied by the spermatic, renal, and hypogastric plexuses. Varieties.—The most important variation consists in the partial or complete duplication of the tube owing to the late union or to the non-union of the superior and inferior infundibula or pelves. In rare cases the calices form three pelves which may in like manner remain separate in part or in the whole of their course to the bladder. THE BLADDER The urinary bladder is a receptacle, of which the form, size, and position vary with the amount of its contents. The adult organ in its empty or moderately filled condition lies entirely below the level of the oblique plane of the pelvic inlet; but when considerably distended it rises into the abdomen and shows itself beneath the parietes as a characteristic mesial projection above the symphysis ; a projection which in certain cases may extend nearly to the level of the umbilicus. It is invested over its whole extent by recto-vesical fascia, and is partially covered above by peritoneum (fig. 617). Form.—When fully distended it assumes in the male an ovoid shape with its longest diameter directed downwards and backwards, but in women the transverse diameter is commonly the greatest. In the child it is somewhat pear-shaped, the stalk being represented by the urachus. The form of the empty bladder is still doubtful, as the appearances in the dead subject do not necessarily coincide with the condition existing during life. In