361 FLEXOR BEE VIS POLLICIS ad about one-sixth of an inch in diameter, which rest by small articular facets overed with cartilage upon the palmar aspect of the condyles of the first metacarpal one. Close to their insertion the tendinous fibres are blended with those of the bductor pollicis externally, and the adductor internally. In the inner head three iistinct divisions may generally be observed. The first or outermost division is a jmall fusiform slip which passes beneath the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis to i3in the outer head, and to be inserted into the radial sesamoid bone. The second 'Avision is fan-shaped, and its fibres, which form the greater part of the inner head, onverge to embra.ce the ulnar sesamoid bone. The third division lies under cover Fig. 284.—The Pronator Quadratus and Deep View of the Palm. Pronator quadratus Abductor pollicis TOuter head of flexor brevis pollicis ,Inner head of flexor brevis pollicis (flrst division) 'Opponens pollicis Inner head of flexor brevis pollicis (third division) -Inner head of flexor brevis pollicis (second division) -Adductor pollicis Dorsal inter- osseous Third palmar interosseous Fourth dorsal interosseous Second palmar interosseous Third dorsal interosseous Second dorsal interosseous First palmar interosseous of the second. It is a small fleshy slip, which arises from the ulnar side of the base of the first metacarpal bone, and passes downwards to be inserted with the adductor pollicis into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx. Some authors describe this third division as the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and the first and second divisions as the adductor pollicis obliquus. Nerve-supply.—The outer head is supplied (through the sixth cervical nerve) by the palmar branch of the median, which enters the middle of its anterior surface near its ulnar border. The inner head is supplied (through the eighth cervical nerve) by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve which enters the upper part of its deep surface close to its ulnar border.