1102 THE UBINABY OBGANS easy to trace in the immediate neighbourhood of its reflexion, but it becomes less distinct as it recedes from this point, and at length is undemonstrable. The ischio-rectal or anal fascia, originating at the white line below the fascial attachment of the levator ani, closely invests the parietal or ischio-rectal surface \ of this muscle, and that of its neighbour, the coecygeus, to blend in the region of the anus with the deep fascial covering of the external sphincter. In front it passes above the perinseal structures, becoming continuous with the superior triangular ligament (a prolongation of the obturator fascia), and meeting with the recto-vesical I fascia, at the anterior border of the levator ani; while behind it extends backwards i for a variable distance to join again with the obturator fascia. In this way the two ' fasciae, obturator and ischio-rectal, close in the ischio-rectal fossa above, in front,! and behind, but leave it widely open below. The ischio-rectal fossse (figs. 647, 648, 652, 653) are two deep interspaces, one on each side, left by the divergence of the obliquely directed muscles of the pelvic floor (levator ani and coecygeus) from the vertical pelvic wall. Each fossa is bounded Fig. 652.—Sagittal Section through the Perineal Ledge and Ischio-rectal Fossa to the Left of the Middle Line. (Diagrammatic.) Pyriformis Subperitoneal tissue Fascia transversalis OS PUBIS Obturator intemus Fascia lata of thigh Muscles of thigh Great saero-sciatie ligament Lesser sacro-sciatic ligament Gluteus maximus Levator ani with its fasciae Ischio-rectal fossa Deep perinseal inter- space with deep trans- versus perinaei Superficial triangular ligament Superficial perinaeal interspace with muscles of penis extenially by the obturator internus below the level of the white line, the corre- sponding portion of the obturator fascia (with Alcock's canal and the pudic vessels and nerves), and the os innominatum ; and internally by the levator ani and coecygeus and the ischio-rectal fascia. Superiorly, the vertical outer wall is joined by the sloping inner Avail where the ischio-rectal fascia joins the obturator fascia, so that the space is angular A in outhne in frontal section. So far all anatomists are agreed, but the remaining boundaries require further investigation. If the finger be introduced into the fossa, it will meet in front the line of junction of the triangular ligaments with the fascia of Colles. Deep or superior to this will be found an anterior recess of considerable size extending forward nearly as fai as the symphysis, between the superior triangular ligament and the under surface oi the levator ani, and limited internally by the prostate and pubo-prostatic Ugaments. and externally by the pubic and ischial rami. Behind will be felt the border of the j great sacro-sciatic ligament, and above this a posterior recess running backwards for a variable distance towards the sacrum. Both of these deep extensions are linedJ by the ischio-rectal and obturator fascia, and filled with fat and connective tissue.