1110 THE MAMMABY GLANDS The male breast differs from that of the female in the early arrest of its evolution. It ranges in diameter from a third of an inch to an inch, and possesses an areola and nipple, the former often beset with hairs. It is usually placed over the fourth intercostal space a little internal to the border of the pectoralis major, but its position is very variable, and the two glands are often unsymmetrical. A temporary engorgement occasionally appears in early adult life, and may lead to inflammatory complications. Vessels and nerves.—The arteries are derived from the internal mammary through the second, third, and fourth intercostal spaces, and from the thoracic branches of the axillary. The chief supply is given to the perforating branches oj the internal mammary, but the external mammary branch of the axillary arter} may be of large size in the female. j The veins terminate in the corresponding trunks. The superficial veins become: visibly enlarged during pregnancy and lactation. | The lymphatics accompany the veins ; some terminate in the costal group o: axillary glands, and others in the retrosternal chain ; and in cancer of the breasi the deep cervical glands about the subclavian vessels may become imphcated as th( disease advances. The nerves are derived from the supraclavicular branches of the cervical plexus and from the intercostals. The glandular twigs are traced by Eckhard to th( fourth, fifth, and sixth intercostals. Fig. 658.—Development of the Mamma of the Female Embryo. (7 inches in length x 70.) (After La,nger.) Development.—The breast appears about the seventh week of foetal life as a circuLi epidermic ridge, enclosing a central depression, the cells of which grow inwards and fori' branching tubular ducts that radiate beneath the nipple (fig. 658). Abnormalities. — Small supplementary lacteal glands, in addition to the norm; accessory structures beneath the areola, are frequently present aroimd the margin (\ the principal gland, and may be found in front of the sternum, in the axilla, and belo the clavicle, and there is reason to believe that many of the adenomata and cancers tal^ origin in these redundant structures (Pioger Williams). Besides these, large supernumerai, mamnise, having all the characters of the typical organs, have also been met with i i various situations—in the axilla, over the back, the abdomen, and even on the thigl These are in all probability atavistic. Absence of the mamma is extremely rare. The nipples may be double, or even triple on each breast, or may be wantin altof?ether. ' In a few instances an abnormal development of the gland tissue has been known i occur in the male, and milk has been secreted in sufficient quantity to nourish an infan; A slight and temporary enlargement of the gland about the period of puberty is ik , infrequent. \ I i