OBTUBATOB INTEBNVS AND GEMELLI an superior, the sciatic and pudic vessels, and most of the branches from the sacral plexus. Variations.—The pyriformis may be absent. It is often divided by a part of the great ciatic nerve into two muscles, and sometimes into three. It may be more or less blended with the gluteus medius or minimus above, and the superior gemellus below. 2, 3, AND 4. OBTUKATOR INTERNUS AND GEMELLI The obturator internus and gemelli form really a single muscle, the greater part of which arises inside the pelvis ; while the gemelli form two accessory slips ivhich join it from the margin of that cavity. The obturator internus—named from the fact that it arises from the membrane R^hich closes up the obturator foramen, and from its position within the pelvis—is a omewhat triangular sheet, or rather, perhaps, it should be described as the sector 3f a circle, for its origin within the pelvis is bounded by a curved line like a part of the circumference of a circle. Origfin.—The whole of the interior of that part of the pelvis which is formed by he innominate bone : viz. (1) The back of the body and descending ramus of the )S pubis, and of the ascending ramus of the ischium ; (2) the whole of the inner surface of the obturator membrane; (3) the broad surface of bone behind the oramen, corresponding to the acetabulum on the exterior; (4) the outer surface j)f the pelvic and obturator fasciae. These extend from the ilio-pectineal line above |iO the great sacro-sciatic foramen behind, and to the spine and tuberosity of the schium below. Insertion.—The inner aspect of the upper border of the greater trochanter at he point where it unites with the upper border of the neck of the femur. Structure.—The muscle arises fleshy from the whole of the interior of the Douch-like cavity formed by the pelvic and obturator fasciae internally and the rvall of the pelvis externally, which opens backwards and downwards at the lesser aero-sciatic foramen. From this extensive origin the fibres converge down- ords and backwards upon a broad tendinous expansion which begins about one nch above the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen upon the outer surface of the muscle. This expansion is corrugated into four or five folds, which are separated from the artilaginous lining of the lesser sacro-sciatic notch by a bursal cavity which lUows of the smooth play of the tendon upon the bone. This cartilage presents iorresponding grooves for the folds of the tendon. After passing through this 'oramen the tendon changes its course, and is directed transversely outwards and brwards to its insertion. The fleshy fibres extend upon the inner, w^hich has low become its posterior surface for about half the distance from the notch to the ;acet upon the greater trochanter. For a short distance before its insertion it s intimately connected with the tendon of the pyriformis. Nerve-supply.—From the first and second sacral nerves of the sacral plexus by b special nerve which, after passing through the lesser sacro-sciatic notch, is distri- cted to the muscle, entering its inner surface near its upper border and close to he lesser sacro-sciatic foramen. The gemellus superior—named from gemellus=-d, twin, because it is the upper )f the two twin muscles which nearly surround the tendon of the obturator internus it its point of emergence from the pelvis—is a somewhat triangular sheet curved ipon itself to embrace the rounded tendon of the obturator internus. Origin.—(1) The outer surface of the spine of the ischium ; (2) the upper half )f the outer edge of the lesser sacro-sciatic notch. Insertion.—The upper border and the anterior surface of the obturator internus endon, about one inch from its insertion.