980 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION rotundity to the features, and constitutes what is sometimes spoken of as tb sucking cushion of the cheek. Opposite the second upper molar tooth is a papi which marks the opening of the duct of the parotid gland. The gums are formed by a layer of tough areolar tissue covering the alveola: processes, and firmly attached to their periosteum. They are covered on both aspects by the mucous membrane of the mouth, tb inner surfaces receiving reflexions from the sides and anterior extremity of tb tongue, a median fold forming the frsenum of that organ ; and the outer surfaces receiving reflexions from the cheeks and lips. In the median line above and below the orifice of the mouth are folds of mucous membrane, forming the fraena labiorum, of which the upper is the more marked. i THE PALATE | The palate consists of two portions, the anterior or ha^rd palate, and the posterioi or soft palate. ^ The hard palate, which is limited in front and laterally by the alveolar processes, ends posteriorly in a free border to which the soft palate is attached. The mucous membrane which covers it is thick and somewhat pale, and is firmly bound down to its periosteum. In the median line of the palate is a ridge called' the raphe ; and at the anterior extremity of this is a small papilla which marks the inferior opening of the anterior palatine canal. The mucous membrane coverino; this receives its nerve-supply from the anterior palatine and naso-palatine nerves. The SOFT PALATE (fig. 560) is attached to the posterior border of the hard palate, of which it forms a backward prolongation hanging down at the back the mouth, and thus partially separating the latter cavity from the pharynx. Its| sides are merged in the pharyngeal wall, and its lower border is free. From the centre of this border a somewhat conical process, the uvula, depends and from the base of this two folds of mucous membrane on each side extend in ar' outward and downward direction, receiving the name of the pillars of the fauces. The anterior pillar is formed principally by the palato-giossus muscle, and its^ direction is downward, outward, and forward to the side of the base of the tongue. The posterior pillar is formed principally by the palato-pharyngeus. It, approaches more nearly to its fellow of the opposite side than does the anterior. Its direction is outward, downward and backward, and there thus exists between itj and the anterior pillar a triangular space, the tonsillar recess. The space between the pillars is known as the isthmus of the fauces, and forms ^ the buccal opening of the pharynx. It is bounded below by the tongue, above by; the soft palate, and laterally by the pillars of the fauces. i The anterior surface of the soft palate is concave, directed forwards and, downwards, and is continuous with the surface of the hard palate ; its posterior, surface is convex, and is a continuation of the floor of the nasal cavity. The soft palate is composed of a thin but rather dense fibrous aponeurosis, certain muscles, vessels, and mucous glands covered by mucous membrane. i In the median line is a raphe which marks the junction of the two halves of | which the soft palate originally consists. ! Muscles.—The muscles of the soft palate are, on each side :—palato-giossus,; palato-pharyngeus, levator palati, and tensor palati; and, in the middle line, azygos uvulae, which divides above into two parts. The Palato-Glossus is described on page 483.