86 THE SKELETON The following muscles arise within the orbit:—the four recti, the superior oblique, and levator paljjebrcB superioris, near the apex ; the inferior oblique on the floor of the orbit external to the lachrymal canal; and the tensor tarsi from the lachrymal crest. The margins of the spheno-maxillary fissm^e give attachment to the orbitalis muscle. The nasal fossae or sinuses are two irregular cavities situated on each side of a median vertical septum, extending from the anterior part of the skull-base to the superior surface of the hard palate. They are somewhat oblong in section, but are narrower above than below. Each fossa presents a roof, floor, inner and outer wall, and opens in front by the anterior naris, and communicates behind with the pharynx by the posterior naris. The roof resembles that of a house with two sloping edges and an intermediate level portion. The anterior slope is formed by the posterior surface of the nasal bone and the nasal spine of the frontal. The horizontal portion corresponds to the cribriform plate of the ethmoid and the sphenoidal turbinal. The posterior Fig. 91.—Section through the Nasal Fossa to show the Septum. CRE SPI NASAL SPINE OF FRONTAL - CREST OF MAXILLA slope is formed by the inferior surface of the body of the sphenoid, an ala of th vomer, and a small portion of the sphenoidal process of each palate bone. The floor is wider than the roof, concave from side to side, and has a sligh backward slope. It is formed mainly by the palatine process of the maxilla and completed posteriorly by the horizontal plate of the palate bone. Near it anterior part, close beside the septum, is the anterior palatine canal. The septum, or inner wall, is formed by the crest of the sphenoid, the crest of the nasal bones, nasal spine of frontal, the mesethmoid, vomer, and the median crest formed by the apposition of the palatine plates of the maxillae and the hori- zontal plates of the palate bones. The anterior border has a triangular outline,, limited above by the mesethmoid, and below by the vomer. This receives the triangular cartilage of the nose. The posterior border is formed by the pharyngeal edge of the vomer. The septum is usually deflected to one side, and is occasionally perforated. Sometimes a strip of cartilage, continuous with the triangular cartilage, persists between the vomer and mesethmoid. The outer wall is formed by the nasal process and inner wall of the maxilla, the lachrymal, the ethmoidal and inferior turbinals, the vertical plate of the palate