THE LEG 1233 thin person it can be felt beating in the hollow on the inner side of the tendo Achilhs (fig. 775). The line of the anterior tibial artery is one drawn from a point midway between the outer tuberosity of the head of the fibula to one on the centre of the ankle jomt This Ime corresponds to the outer border of the tibiahs anticus and the mterval between it and the extensor longus digitorum (figs. 774 and 777) This IS shown when the first of these muscles is thrown into action The peroneal artery, given off from the posterior tibial about an inch below the pophteus, or three inches below the head of the fibula, runs deeply along the inner border of this bone, covered by the flexor longus hallucis. It gives off the anterior Iperoneal to the front of the limb about an inch above the level of the ankle ioint The nutrient artery of the tibia arises from the posterior tibial near its commencement. It is the largest of all the nutrient arteries. I As a general rule, in amputation one inch below the head of the fibula only bne mam artery—the popliteal—is divided. In amputations two inches below bhe head of the fibula, two main arteries—the anterior and posterior tibials—are iivided. In amputations three inches below the head, three main arteries—the two iibials and the peroneal—are divided. (Holden.) In an amputation through the middle of the leg, the anterior tibial artery would be found cut on the interosseous membrane between the tibialis anticus and the extensor longus hallucis, its nerve lying to its inner side. The posterior tibial yould be between the superficial and deep muscles at the back of the leg lying on !he tibialis posticus, its nerve being to the outer side. The peroneal would be close 0 the fibula in the flexor longus hallucis. THE ANKLE Bony landmarks.—Malleoli.—The following are the differences between them, 'he internal is the more prominent, shorter, and is placed more anteriorly than the iuter, being a little in front of the centre of the joint. The external descends lower y a half to three-quarters of an inch, and thus securely locks in the joint on this :de; it is opposite to the centre of the ankle joint, being placed about half an inch ehind its fellow. The anterior margin of the lower end of the tibia can be traced bove the ankle joint, crossed by the tendons given below. Owing to the external lalleolus descending lower than the inner, in Symes and Pirogoff's amputation le incision should run between the tip of the external malleolus and a point half ji inch below that of the internal one. When a fracture is set, or a dislocation iljusted, the inner edge of the patella, the internal malleolus, and the inner side the great toe are useful landmarks and should be in the same vertical plane, fgard being paid at the same time to the corresponding points in the opposite limb, i llolden.) Tendons.—(A) In front of ankle.—From without inwards are—(1) The tibialis iticus, the largest and most internal. This tendon appears in the lower third of j.e leg, lying just under the deep fascia, close to the tibia ; then, crossing over the 'wer end of this and the ankle joint, passes over the inner side of the tarsus, be attached to the inner and lower part of the internal cuneiform and the jjacent part of the first metatarsal. (2) The extensor proprius hallucis. This Indon, concealed above, appears low down in a line just external to the last, and en, crossing over the termination of the anterior tibial vessels and nerves (to lich its muscular part lies external), it descends along the inner part of the rsum to be attached to the base of the last i^halanx of the great toe. (3) and (4) jie extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius enter a common sheath in the i terior annular ligament. The former then divides into four tendons, which, I , 4K