THE LEG 1231 )etween the peroneus tertius and the other two peronei. Behind the external nalleolus the tendons of the peronei longus and brevis descend to the foot in very lose relation to the bone. The shaft of the fibula is placed on a plane posterior to hat of the tibia, and curves backward in a direction reverse to that of the tibia. Muscular prominences.—The space between the tibia and fibula is mainly ccupied by the fleshy belly of the tibialis anticus ; outside this, and much less )rominent, is the narrower extensor longus digitorum ; outside this, again, are the )eronei longus and brevis. Lower down, in an interval between the tibialis and the xtensor of the toes, the extensor hallucis, here almost entirely tendinous, comes the surface. Behind, the prominence of the calf is mainly formed by the gastro- nemius. On the patient's rising on tiptoe, the tendo Achillis starts into relief from bout the middle of the leg. Of the two heads of the gastrocnemius, the inner is een to be the larger. On either side of the tendon, but more distinctly in the >uter side where it is less overlapped by the gastrocnemius, the soleus comes into lew. Fig. 776.—Section of the Eight Leg in the Upper Third. (Heath.) Tibialis anticus Extensor longus digitorum Anterior tibial vessels andNERVh Peroneus longus Flexor longus liallucis - Soleus with, fibrous intersection Gastrocnemius Tibialis posticus Flexor longus digitorum Internal saphenous vein COMMUNICANS PERONEI NER VE Tendon of plantaris Peroneal vessels Posterior tibial vessels and NERVE External saphenous vein and NERVE Vessels.—The saphena veins should be carefully traced, owing to the tendency f these and their branches to become varicose. The internal, having passed from he arch on the dorsum over the internal malleolus, runs up the inner side of the eg along the inner border of the tibia, to the back of the internal condyle, and then ipwards along the thigh, over the roof of Hunter's canal, to the saphenous opening page 1166 and figs. 710, 790), where it joins the femoral. The internal saphenous lerve joins it below the knee, having been under the sartorius above this point (page 215 and fig. 771). The external saphenous vein passes behind the external malleolus, uns upwards over the middle of the calf, and joins the pophteal by perforating the leep fascia in the lower part of the popliteal space. This vein is also accompanied by L nerve of the same name throughout its course. The popliteal artery bifurcates at the lower border of the pophteus, an inch )elow the tubercle of the tibia. About three inches below the head of the fibula he peroneal artery comes off from the posterior tibial (fig. 775). The line of the posterior tibial is one drawn from the centre of the lower part