MANDIBULAB DIVISION OF THE FIFTH NEBVE 803 may be readily traced through the deeper fibres of the masseter nearly to the anterior border of that muscle. As it emerges from under cover of the external pterygoid it gives a twig to the temporo-mandibular articulation. (3) The nerve to the external pterygoid, after a course of about an eighth of an inch, divides into twigs which enter the deep surface of the two heads of the muscle. It is usually adherent at its origin to the long buccal nerve. (4) The long buccal nerve passes between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and then turns forwards and emerges from under cover of the temporal and masseter muscles at the anterior border of the latter. It runs forwards and com- municates with the buccal branch of the facial, being in this situation covered only by the integument and fascia, and then pierces the buccinator muscle and ramifies in on the mucous membrane lining the cheek, its terminal twigs reaching as far forwards as the angle of the mouth. As it emerges from between the heads of the external pterygoid, it gives off a slender twig to the temporal muscle. The POSTERIOR PORTION of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve divides into three large branches; two of these, the auriculo-temporal and the lingual, are exclusively sensory ; the remaining branch, mandibular (inferior dental), contains a strand of motor fibres—the mylo-hyoid nerve. (1) The auriculo-temporal nerve arises by two roots, which usually embrace the . middle meningeal artery, and passes backwards and outwards between the internal lateral ligament of the temporo-mandibular articulation and the condyle of the mandible, closely embracing the capsular ligaments of the joint. It then ascends under cover of the parotid gland and traverses the glandular substance as it crosses the root of the zygoma. It accompanies the temporal artery, being placed under cover of and slightly behind that vessel, and terminates at the level of the tragus of the ear by dividing into auricular and temporal branches. As it passes through the parotid gland it communicates with the temporo-facial division of the facial nerve by two stout twigs, which may surround the temporal artery. The auriculo-temporal nerve receives communicating twigs from the otic ganglion, and gives off the articular branch, the nerves to the meatus, and the parotid branches, j It terminates in the anterior auricular and superficial temporal branches. {a) The communicating twigs from the otic ganglion join the nerve close to its [commencement in the form of several fine filaments. These filaments have been shown by physiological experiments to be derived from the i glosso-pharyngeal nerve through the lesser superficial petrosal. They rim for a short distance in the trunk of the aiu^iculo-temporal, and leave it under the name of parotid branches. They are the secreto-motor fibres of the parotid gland. , (h) The articular branch is supplied to the temporo-mandibular articulation as the auriculo-temporal nerve is passing between the capsular ligament and the parotid gland. 1 (c) The nerves to the meatus, two in number, pass between the bony and cartilaginous parts of the external auditory meatus and supply the skin lining the meatus. The upper of the two nerves furnishes a filament to the membrana tympani. The lower nerve gives twigs to the lobule of the ear. Occasionally only jthe upper nerve is present, the lower being replaced by a twig from the great auricular. (Henle.) {cT) The parotid branches are a variable number of fine twigs which arise either directly from the auriculo-temporal nerve or from the loops of communication jbetween it and the facial. As above mentioned, they supply the glandular substance. I (e) The anterior auricular branches, two in number, are supplied to the upper part of the pinna, and are chiefly distributed to the integument which covers the anterior aspect of the tragus and helix, I (/) The superficial temporal branches divide at acute angles and ramify over ithe integument which covers the temporal fascia. The largest twig accompanies ] * 3 F 2