313 PECTORALIS MINOB—SEBBATUS MAGNUS ihe posterior division of the same fascia, the rhomboid ligament, the subclavian vessels, and the brachial plexus. Variations.—The subclavius may be absent, or its insertion may extend to the coracoid Drocess, transverse ligament, and upper border of the scapula. Occasionally the costo- clavicular portion is separate from the costo-scapular. Again, its origin may extend nwards to the sternum, and the portion which arises from the sternum may be separate xom the rest of the muscle. : 2. PECTOEALIS MINOR The pectoralis minor—named from its being the smaller of the two muscles jvhich arise from the front of the chest—is a fan-shaped or triangular sheet, with its Inner edge divided into three teeth. ' Origin.—(1) The upper borders and outer surfaces of the third, fourth, and fifth ibs near their anterior extremities ; (2) the fascia covering the intercostal muscles jn the spaces between these ribs. I Insertion.—-(1) The upper surface of the coracoid process of the scapula ; ■ 2) the upper part of the tendon of the coraco-brachialis along its inner border. Structure.—Its origin is by aponeurotic slips, which, after becoming fleshy, !onverge upwards, outwards, and somewhat backwards, upon the flattened tendon, yhich is attached chiefly to the coracoid process, but blends for an inch or more )elow that process with the origin of the coraco-brachialis. Nerve-supply.—From the inner cord of the brachial plexus (through the iighth cervical nerve) by the internal anterior thoracic, which enters its deep surface learthe upper border, the nerve subsequently piercing the muscle to send fllaments 0 the pectoralis major. Its action is to draw downwards and forwards the scapula, depressing at the liame time the point of the shoulder. Taking its fixed point from the coracoid process, it dtaws upwards and outwards the ribs to which it is attached, and ;o helps in forced inspiration. Its connection with the tendon of the coraco- )rachialis will enable it to act slightly as a flexor and adductor of the humerus, j Relations.—Superficially, the pectoralis major ; deeply, the external intercostal inuscles ; and, near its insertion, the axillary vessels and brachial nerves. Variations.—The origin may extend upwards as far as the second, or downwards to he sixth rib, and it may receive additions from the pectoralis major. It is occasionally altogether absent. Its insertion may be continued over the coracoid process to the iapsnle of the shoulder joint, the greater tuberosity of the humerus, or the clavicle. « I Third Layer I SERRATUS MAGNUS The serratus magnus—named from its serrated or saw-like anterior border and arge size—is an irregular quadrilateral sheet curved to the shape of the side of the borax. Its anterior attached border has a somewhat sinuous curve, and arises from j he side of the thorax by nine or ten digitations or teeth, which, by their saw-lil^e i-ppearance, give the muscle its name. The muscle may be divided into an upper, niddle, and lower part. Origin.—First part, by two teeth from the middle of the outer surface of the lirst and second ribs, and from the fascia covering the first intercostal space. Second part, by two or three heads from the second, third, and sometimes the ourth ribs upon their outer surface. Third part, by far the largest and strongest )ortion of the muscle, arises from the fourth or fifth to the eighth or ninth ribs by t series of teeth, which are attached in front near the upper border of each rib, and