THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 858 canal formed by a clelamination of the parietal pelvic fascia (Alcock's canal), and, having given off the inferior haemorrhoidal nerve, terminates by dividing into the peringeal nerve and the dorsal nerve of the penis. At its origin, the pudic nerve is often connected in a plexiform manner with the nerve to the obtm^ator internus. (a) The inferior haemorrhoidal nerve pierces the wall of Alcock's canal, and passes inwards through the fatty tissue which occupies, the ischio-rectal fossa. It is deeply placed at the outer part of the fossa, but becomes superficial as it approaches the anus. It divides into terminal twigs, some of which supply the external sphincter ani, while others are distributed to the adjacent integument. (b) The perinaeal nerve runs for a short distance in Alcock's canal at a lower level than the pudic vessels, and then divides into cutaneous and muscular divisions. The cutaneous division takes the form of two nerves, which are termed posterior and anterior superficial perinaeal nerves. The posterior or external superficial perinaeal nerve escapes from Alcock's canal at the anterior part of the ischio-rectal fossa, and, winding round the transverse perinaeal muscle, passes forwards under cover of Colles's fascia. It then divides into several long slender twigs, which communicate with the anterior superficial perinseal and long pudendal nerves, and end in the integuments of the scrotum. In the female they are distributed in a similar manner to the labium majus. The anterior or internal superficial perinaeal nerve appears a little further forwards than the preceding nerve, and usually passes through the fibres of the transverse perinaeal muscle. Its terminal offsets accompany the branches of the posterior perinaeal nerve, and have a similar distribution. The muscular division of the perinaeal nerve is more deeply placed than the cutaneous division. It breaks up into the following branches : a twig to the bulb of the urethra, and branches to supply the transversus perinaei, erector penis (or clitoridis), accelerator urinae (or sphincter vaginae), and compressor urethrae muscles. (c) The dorsal nerve of the penis, which is placed at its origin below the pudic artery, crosses that vessel and courses along above it. It then insinuates itself between the layers of the triangular ligament and lies close to the bone at the outer side of the pudic vessels. It then pierces the anterior layer of the triangular liga- ment, and, having furnished a branch to the corpus cavernosum, passes between the bone and the crus penis. It is then directed downwards on the dorsum penis external to the dorsal artery. Having given off twigs to the prepuce, it ends in branches to the glans. As it runs on the dorsum penis the nerve is under cover of a thin strong fascia, and often appears in the form of two or three flattened parallel bundles. The dorsal nerve of the clitoris is distributed in a similar manner to the dorsal nerve of the penis, but is of much smaller size. 2. The Great Sciatic Neeve The GREAT SCIATIC NERVE is the largest nerve in the body. It is, as above mentioned, the main termination of the sacral plexus, and commences at the lower border of the great sacro-sciatic foramen. It is directed vertically down the thigh, and terminates a little below the middle of the thigh by dividing into the external and internal popliteal nerves. In this course it is covered by the skin and fasciae, the gluteus maximus and biceps muscles, and the small sciatic nerve. Its deep or anterior relations are the following, taken in order from above downwards: the ischium, gemellus superior, tendon of obturator internus, gemellus inferior, quadratus femoris, and adductor magnus. Branches.—The great sciatic nerve gives off branches in the thigh which supply the hamstring muscles, and (in part) the adductor magnus. The nerve to the semi-tendinosus usually arises from a more proximal part of the great sciatic than