! THE METAGABPO-PHALANGEAL JOINTS 257 tre connected with the glenoid ligament; the posterior blend with the tendinous ixpansion at the back of the joint. The joint is covered in posteriorly by the expansion of the extensor tendon, and .ome loose areolar tissue passing from its under surface to the bones (fig. 236). The synovial sac is loose and capacious, more especially over the base of the )halanx behind, and the head of the metacarpal bone in front. I The arteries come from the digital or anterior interosseous vessels of the deep ^rch. The nerves are derived from the digital branches, or from twigs of the nerves to he interosseous muscles. The movements permitted at these joints are: flexion, extension, abduction, udduction, and circumduction. Flexion is the most free of all, and may be continued iiitil the phalanx is at a right angle with the metacarpal bone. It is on this .ccount that the articular surface of the head of the bone is prolonged so much [iirther on the palmar aspect, and that the synovial sac is here so loose and ample, {extension is the most limited of the movements, and can only be carried to a little beyond the straight line. Abduction and adduction are fairly free, but not so free lis flexion; as a rule, though these movements can be executed separately, flexion s associated with adduction, and extension with abduction. This may be proved by )pening the hand, when the fingers involuntarily separate as they extend, while in jiosing the fist they come together again. The free abduction, adduction, and circumduction which is permitted at these joints is due to the fact that the long ixes of the articular facets are at right angles to one another. {b) The Metacaepo-phalangeal Joint of the Thumb Class.—DiartJiTosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus. The head of the metacarpal bone of the thumb differs considerably from the corresponding ends of the metacarpal bones of the fingers. It is less convex, vvider from side to side, the palmar edge of the articular surface is raised and irregular, and here on either side of the median line are the two facets for the sesamoid bones. The base of the first phalanx of the thumb, too, is more like the Dase of the second phalanx of one of the other fingers. The ligaments are :— I Lateral. Posterior. Sesamoid bones in place of a glenoid ligament. The lateral ligaments are short, strong bands of fibres, which radiate from jlepressions on either side of the head of the metacarpal bone to the base of the irst phalanx and sesamoid bones. As they descend they pass a little forwards, io that the greater number are inserted in front of the centre of motion. The posterior ligament consists of scattered fibres w^hich pass across the joint ';rom one lateral ligament to the other, completing the capsule and protecting the (Synovial sac. j The sesamoid bones are two in number, situated on either side of the middle 'ine, and connected together by strong transverse fibres which form the floor of the i^Toove for the long flexor tendon; they are connected with the base of the phalanx iindheadof the metacarpal bone by strong fibres. Anteriorly they give attach- nent to the short muscles of the thumb, and posteriorly are smooth for the purpose )f gliding over the facets. The lateral ligaments are partly inserted into their sides. The arteries and nerves come from the digital branches of the thumb. I The movements are chiefly flexion and extension, very little lateral movement j)eing permitted, and that only when the joint is slightly bent. Thus this joint is lnore gingiymoid than the corresponding articulations of the fingers. The thumb ! s