1051 THE SUPBABENAL BODIES capsule which sends trabecular processes between the cellular elements of its proper substance. The parenchyma consists of a peripheral portion, or cortex, of yellowish colour, except in its deepest layer which is darkly pigmented, and a central portion or medulla, soft and greyish, and tending to break down under decomposition in such a manner as to give the appearance of an irregular cavity (whence the name suprarenal ' capsule Vessels and nerves.—It is richly supplied both with vessels and nerves. Its arteries are derived from three sources—the aorta, the phrenic, and the renal—and pierce the organ in various places. The veins terminate on the right side in the vena cava, and sometimes by means of small branches in the phrenic and renal trunks ; on the left, in the left renal vein. The lymphatics pass to the renal glands, which, like the suprarenal bodies, themselves contain a good deal of pigment. The nerves come from the solar plexus, and include filaments from the sympathetic, the splanchnics, and according to some authors from the phrenic and vagus also. It is disproportionately large in early foetal life, and has nearly reached its full growth at the time of birth. Fig. 615.—Diagram showing Relations of the Kidneys and Suprarenal Bodies. duodenal area hepatic area gastric area (NON-PERITONEAL) (NON-PERITONEAL) CAVAL AREA (PERITONEAL) MESO-COLIC AREA MESO-COLIC AREA THE EENAL DUCTS The excretory duct of the kidney (iigs. 607, 611, 616) is a musculo-mucous canal, expanded and irregularly branched above, narrow and of fairly uniform dimensions in the rest of its course. At its origin in the sinus renalis it appears m the form of a number of short tubes, usually eight or nine, called calices, each of Avhich embraces the papillary extremity of a pyramid of Malpighi two or three lines above its apex, or occasionally two papillae may be connected with a single calyx. The icalices average about a third to half an inch in length, and open directly or by means of intermediate tubes (infundibula) into two short passages, the superior and inferior pelves, which in turn combine after a longer or shorter course to form the common pelvis. The inferior and larger pelvis has a diameter of about two- fifths of an inch ; the superior is about one-third less. The common pelvis varies greatly in different subjects. It usually appears as a more or less funnel-shaped portion of the canal, wider above (about three-fifths of an inch), where it lies between the two lips of the hilum; narrow below, where it arches downwards and inwards to become continuous with the relatively uniform portion of the duct