571 ULNAB—BADIAL i named, from within outwards—first, second, third, and fourth. The first digital artery runs downwards and inwards over the muscles on the inner side of the palm, and thence along the ulnar side of the little finger. It gives branches to the abductor, flexor brevis, and opponens minimi digiti muscles. This branch some- times comes from the deep branch of the ulnar artery. The second, third, and j fourth digital arteries run downwards in the interspace between the little and ring, j the ring and middle, and the middle and index fingers respectively, to within about I a quarter of an inch of the clefts between the fingers, where they divide into two branches (collateral digital) for the supply of the sides of the contiguous fingers. As the digital arteries pass through the palm, they lie between the flexor tendons, on the digital nerves and lumbrical muscles, and beneath the palmar fascia. Just before bifurcating they pass under the superficial transverse ligament, and are j joined by the palmar interosseous branches from the deep palmar arch (fig. 354). At this spot they also receive the anterior perforating branches from the dorsal 1 interosseous vessels. On the sides of the fingers the collateral digital arteries lie between the palmar and dorsal digital nerves. They anastomose by small branches, forming an arch across the front of the bones on the proximal side of each inter- phalangeal joint. They supply the flexor tendons and the integuments, and terminate in a plexiform manner beneath the pulp of the finger and around the matrix of the nail. A dorsal digital branch is given off to the back of the fingers ! about the level of the middle of the first phalanx, and a second but smaller dorsal digital branch about the level of the middle of the second phalanx. (2) The muscular branches from the superficial arch are very small and supply the superficial muscles. (3) The cutaneous branches supply the integuments of the palm. The deep branch of the ulnar artery, also called the communicating artery, sinks deeply into the palm between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, and joins the radial to form the deep palmar arch. (See The Eadial Aetery, page 576.) THE EADIAL AETERY j I The radial artery—the smaller of the two arteries into which the brachial divides at the bend of the elbow—appears as the direct continuation of the brachial. It runs downwards and outwards along the radial side of the forearm as far as the I styloid process, then, coiling over the external lateral ligament and outer and back part of the wrist, enters the palm of the hand from behind between the first and second metacarpal bones, and ends by anastomosing with the deep branch of the ulnar to form the deep palmar arch. Hence the artery is divisible into three parts : that in the forearm, that at the wrist, and that in the palm of the hand. I. The Radial Artery in the Forearm In its course through the forearm (fig. 351) the radial artery is found in the outermost intermuscular space, and it is only necessary to divide the skin, super- ficial and deep fascia, to expose the vessel, and in addition in the upper third to separate the supinator longus (humero-radialis) from the pronator radii teres. In front, the artery is at first overlapped by the supinator longus, but for the rest of its course it is merely covered by the skin, superficial and deep fasciag, by i some cutaneous veins, and by cutaneous branches of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Behind, it lies successively from above downwards on the tendon of the biceps, the j supinator brevis, the insertion of the pronator radii teres, the radial origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum, the flexor longus pollicis, the pronator quadratus, and the front surface of the lower end of the radius. It is in this last situation, where the artery