BISOBIUS—DEPBESSOB ANGULI OBIS 465 Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin, and the subcutaneous tissue, close 0 the corner of the mouth. Structure.—Arising muscular from its broad origin above the canine and [bicuspid teeth, the fibres converge in a downward and outward direction, and blend 'nth the other angular muscles outside the corner of the mouth. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial at he outer part of the anterior surface. Action.—To raise the corner of the mouth, but at the same time to draw it jiwards. Relations.—Superficially, the zygomaticus minor and levator labii superioris, le infraorbital vessels and nerves ; deeply, the facial portion of the orbicularis iris. 3. RISOEIUS The risorius—named from its supposed action in laughter—is flat and ribbon- laped, and belongs to the superficial sheet of muscles, being a part of the platysma iiyoides, and often very small and ill-developed. ! Origin.—The subcutaneous tissue overlying the deep fascia which covers the lasseter and parotid gland. 1 Insertion.—The subcutaneous and muscular tissue external to the angle of the |.outh. 1 Structure.—It is a band of parallel fibres which runs transversely forwards om the upper and posterior part of the platysma to the corner of the mouth. Nerve-supply.—The buccal branch of the lower division of the facial nerve hich enters it from beneath. Action.—To widen the mouth by drawing its corner directly outwards. It is not ed in the expression of pleasure like the zygomaticus major, but it gives a strained ;inful expression to the features, such as is seen in tetanus, and called the 'risus irdonicus.' i Relations.—Superficially, the skin and subcutaneous fat; deeply, the masseter ij.d buccinator, the facial artery and vein, and branches of the facial nerve. 4. DEPRESSOR ANGULI ORIS The depressor anguli oris—named from its action upon the corner of the rath—is a triangular sheet, and belongs to the superficial layer of facial muscles. Origin.—The outer aspect of the lower border of the body of the mandible and tje external oblique line below the canine, bicuspid, and first molar teeth, lasertion.—The subcutaneous connective tissue, and the muscular mass external the corner of the mouth. Structure.—Its fibres, arising fleshy, converge upwards and inwards, and, having dainished to a narrow band, join the general muscular mass at the corner of ! mouth, some of them being continued upwards into the levator anguli oris, i the most external into the zygomaticus major. The fibres which form the inner border of the muscles are often continued djvnwards below the mandible, and form with those of the other side a band, partly i|scular and partly fibrous, which, lying benea-th the platysma myoides, supports a|i compresses the subcutaneous fat below and behind the prominence of the chin, len there is much subcutaneous fat, the absence of this support gives rise to a isiderable prominence behind this band, and forms what is called a ' double chin.' Nerve-supply.—The supramaxillary branch of the lower division of the facial ve, which sends filaments to the back part of its deep surface. H H