1060 THE MALE BEPBODUCTIVE OBGANS Structure and function.—The prostate is invested by a fibrous capsule, derived from the recto-vesical segment of the pelvic fascia. The organ itself is composed of muscular and glandular tissue. The muscular element represents about three- fourths of the entire mass, and consists principally of unstriped fibres, continuous above with the vesical sphincter, and forming in the upper third of the organ a ring of great firmness and strength, lying above the urethral orifices of the ejacu- latory ducts, and discharging in all probability the function of intercepting the backward flow of the semen and prostatic fluid into the bladder dufing sexual congress; below this point the muscle is intermingled with gland tissue, and nea: the apex with a quantity of striated fibres which are probably connected with th deep transversus perin^ei. Here it is still of considerable strength, and aids in th forward propulsion of the mingled prostatic and seminal secretions ; the ejaculatio: being further aided by the deep transversus perinaei and bulbo-cavernosi. The glands are of the branched tubular type, and lie chiefly in the posterior an lateral parts of the organ, their ducts opening into the urethral recesses (prostatitf sinuses) by the sides of the verumontanum. They secrete a mucus, the principa use of which is to dilute and give bulk to the semen, and they are sometimes the sea of pathological concretions. In addition to the true glands are seen a number o; simple follicles in the anterior wall of the prostatic urethra, probably of the sami nature as the rest of the urethral follicles. The prostatic urethra will be describei hereafter (page 1074). The organ is essentially generative, and serves also to reinforce the vesi( sphincter, but its absence in the female and its imperfect development in childrei; and eunuchs appear to entail no defect in the control of the bladder. The muscu fibres are, however, to some extent represented in the female (page 1079). Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the prostate arise from the adjace: vesical and hemorrhoidal vessels. The prostatic veins receive the dorsal vein cj the penis, and, after forming a plexus investing the anterior and a portion of t lateral surfaces, terminate in the adjacent vesical veins. The lymphatics end i the pelvic glands, and a small gland may sometimes be found on each side near base of the organ. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. THE TESTICLES AND THEIE APPENDAGES AND COVEEINGS The two testicles lie in a common pouch of integument called the scrotum, an| each organ is invested in addition by a series of coverings which join in the midc line to form a septum scroti. There are three principal layers : an outer (the dartoJ of unstriped muscular fibre, a middle (the cremasteric) containing striped musculgj fibre, and an inner serous (the tunica vaginalis), separated from each other bl layers of connective tissue. The coverings (fig. 621), named from without inwardj are (1) the dartos; (2) the external spermatic fascia; (3) the cremasteric or midc spermatic fascia ; (4) the internal spermatic fascia ; (5) subperitoneal fascia; ai (6) the tunica vaginalis. THE SCROTUM.—The scrotal integument is more or less pigmented, and covere in the adult by coarse scattered hairs. It presents in the middle line a longitudinsj ridge, the raphe, from which start on either side a multitude of transverse wrinklej Its sudoriparous and sebaceous glands are largely developed. (1) The dartos is a thin reddish layer composed of elastic tissue freely inta mingled with unstriped muscular fibres. It is adherent to the deep surface of ti; skin, but passes inward septally between the two testicles, forming a separate si\ for each, and is prolonged over the penis and perinseum. Its fibres for the mo: part assume a direction at right angles to the scrotal wrinkles, of which they a] i the cause. They are always moderately contracted in health, and contract still moi i