951 THE TEA CHE A In front it is crossed by the thyroid isthmus, and in addition to the skin and superficial fascia are the following structures :—The anterior ju^gular veins, and commonly at the root of the neck a communicating branch passing transversely between them, the inferior thyroid veins, and when present the thyroidea ima, and the thymus gland or its remains. It is overlapped on each side by the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, with a narrow interval between them, across which \ passes a strong deeper layer of the cervical fascia and a thinner superficial layer. In its thoracic portion the trachea still rests upon and retains its connection with 1 the oesophagus, which separates it from the spine. It lies between the two pleural sacs and pneumogastric nerves, having in front of it the sternum with the origins of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, the thymus gland, the deep cardiac plexus, and also the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, which vessel crosses the tube just above its bifurcation ; the innominate artery passes upwards to its right. Fig. 536.—Anterior View of the Larynx, with the Trachea and Bronchi. (Modified from Bourgery.) and the left carotid ascends to reach its left side with the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. The left innominate vein crosses the roots of these vessels. Structure.—The trachea is made up of a series of imperfect cartilaginous rings, deficient behind, connected throughout by fibro-elastic membrane, with muscular fibres, the trachealis muscle, a special layer of yellow elastic fibres, and a lining of mucous membrane. The cartilaginous rings vary in number from sixteen to twenty. They are incomplete, being deficient in the hinder third, and are connected in a continuous series by a fibrous membrane, which divides to enclose them, but reunites in the narrow intervals between. It forms a definite layer where the cartilages are wanting, so that it may be regarded as complete throughout the tube. The inside of the trachea is ridged transversely by the rings, which are rounded on their inner