382 THE MUSCLES Action.—Like the preceding, it is an adductor and rotator outwards of the femur, but it will not assist so powerfully in flexion. Relations.—In front, the pectineus, adductor longus, the profunda vessels, and superficial branch of the obturator nerve ; behind, the obturator externus and adductor magnus, and the deep branch of the obturator nerve. Variations.—It is sometimes divided into an upper and a lower portion. Occasionally it joins above with the obtm-ator externus. 3. ADDUCTOE MAGNUS The adductor magnus—named from its action and its great size—is a thick fan-shaped sheet, forming a right-angled triangle, the right angle of which is; contained between the side corresponding to the insertion of the muscle at the| back of the femur and the side formed by the free upper border of the muscle. Origin.—(1) The lower part of the outer border of the tuber ischii; (2) the outer surface of the ascending ramus of the ischium near its inner border ; (3) the front of the outer surface of the descending ramus of the pubes. Insertion.—(1) The back of the femur, in a line beginning at the lower extremity of the linea quadrati, and extending along the inner border of the gluteal ridge and the middle of the linea aspera down to its bifurcation ; (2) the adductor tubercle on the upper and posterior part of the internal condyle; (3) the lower part of the internal intermuscular septum. Structure.—Its origin and insertion are by short tendinous fibres, Avith the exception of the insertion of the bundle of fibres which passes from the tuber ischii to the adductor tubercle. These arise by a long tendon above, and again become tendinous three or four inches above the knee joint, so as to form a long and con- spicuous tendon on the lower part of the inner border of the muscle. Between this part of the insertion of the muscle and the linea aspera, the fibres are attached to the back of the internal intermuscular septum and to a tendinous arch which allows of the passage of the femoral artery and vein from Hunter's canal into the upper part of the popliteal space. Between the origin and insertion the fibres; diverge ; the anterior fibres of origin passing horizontally outwards to their inser- tion into the upper part of the back of the femur, while the fibres which arise behind pass vertically downwards between the tuber ischii and the internalJ condyle. Moreover, the muscle is twisted upon itself so that the surface which! above looks inwards and rather backwards is directed forwards below. A deep longitudinal groove is thus formed upon the upper part of the back of the muscle,j in which lie the hamstring muscles and the great sciatic nerve. The upper partj of the muscle, which arises in front, and is inserted into the inner border of the gluteal ridge, forms a triangular sheet, usually separate from the rest, and some- times described as a distinct muscle, the adductor minimus. In addition to the opening for the femoral vessels, the muscle is pierced close to the bone by the perforating arteries and the terminal branch of the profunda femoris. Upon its anterior surface it receives a membranous expansion from the vastus internus, which passes inwards beneath the sartorius to the adductoi longus and magnus, forming the anterior wall of a sort of tunnel which con- tains the femoral vessels in the middle third of the thigh, and is called Hunter's canal. Nerve-supply.—Chiefly from the third and fourth nerves of the lumbar plexu& by the deep division of the obturator nerve which supplies the muscle upon the outer part of its anterior surface. The lower fibres of the muscle, hov/ever, are supplied upon their posterior surface by the great sciatic nerve, a branch of the sacral plexus.