288 THE ABTICULATIONS the whole length of the dorsal surface of the scaphoid. Many of the fibres converge to their insertion on the scaphoid. The fibres low down on the outer side blend a little way from their origin with the upper edge of the external calcaneo-scaphoic ligament, and then pass forwards and inwards to the scaphoid ; those next abov^ pass obliquely and with a distinct twist over the upper and outer side of the heac of the astragalus to the centre of the dorsum of the scaphoid, overlapping fibrej from the inner side of the astragalus as well as some from the anterior ligament oj the ankle joint. Synovial membrane.—The astragalo-scaphoid is lined by the same synovial membrane as the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint. (ii) TJie Calcanco-cuboid Articulation Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. The ligaments which unite the bones forming the outer part of the medio-tarsa joint are:— Internal or interosseous calcaneo-cuboid. Dorsal calcaneo-cuboid. Long inferior calcaneo-cuboid. Short inferior calcaneo-cuboid. The internal or interosseous calcaneo-cuboid ligament (fig. 256) is a strom band of fibres attached to the os calcis along the inner part of the non-articula] ridge above the articular facet for the cuboid, and also to the upper part of th( internal surface close to the articular margin, and passes forwards to be attachec to the depression on the internal surface of the cuboid, and also to the rough angl( between the internal and inferior surfaces. At the calcaneum this ligament i^ closely connected with the external calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. Towards the sol( it is connected with the short inferior calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and superiorh with the dorsal calcaneo-cuboid. The dorsal calcaneo-cuboid (fig. 256) is attached to the dorsal surfaces of th(: two bones, extending low down externally to blend with the outer part of th(| short plantar ligament. Over the inner half, or more, the ligament stretches som( distance beyond the margins of the articular surfaces, reaching well forward upoi the cuboid to be attached about midway between its anterior and posterior borders but towards the outer side, the ligament is much shorter, and is attached to th( cuboid behind its tubercle. The long inferior calcaneo-cuboid (the long plantar) (fig. 257) is a strong dense band of fibres which are attached posteriorly to the whole of the undei surface of the calcaneum between the posterior tubercles and the rounded eminence (the anterior tubercle) at the anterior end of the bone. Most of its fibres pasji directly forwards, and are fixed to the outer two-thirds or more of the obliqu( ridge behind the peroneal groove on the cuboid, while some j)ass further forwards and inwards, expanding into a broad layer, and are inserted into the bases of th( second, third, fourth, and inner half of the fifth metatarsal bones. This anterio] expanded portion completes the canal for the peroneus longus tendon, and from itj under surface arise the adductor hallucis and the flexor brevis minimi digit muscles. The short inferior calcaneo-cuboid (short plantar) (fig. 257) is attached to th( rounded eminence (anterior tubercle) at the anterior end of the under surface of the calcaneum, and to the bone in front of it, and then takes an oblique course forwardfj and inwards, and is attached to the whole of the depressed inferior surface of th(: cuboid behind the oblique ridge, except its outer angle. It is strongest near its oute] edge, and is formed by dense strong fibres. The synovial membrane is distinct from that of any other tarsal joint. The arterial supply of the medio-tarsal joints is from the anterior tibial fro