, BELATION OF LABGE VESSELS TO THE CHEST-WALLS 1141 tricuspid valves lie behind the sternum at the level of the fourth intercostal space ; and the mitral valves, the most deeply placed of all, lie a little to the left of these, behind the left edge of the sternum and the fourth left costal cartilage. ' Thus these valves are so situated that the mouth of an ordinary-sized stetho- scope will cover a portion of them all, if placed over the juncture of the third inter- costal space, on the left side, with the sternum. All are covered by a thin layer of 'lung; therefore we hear their action better when the breathing is for a moment suspended.' (Holden.) The reader will remember that abnormal murmurs resulting from a diseased 3ondition of these valves do not correspond with their exact anatomical position. Thus aortic murmurs are best heard at the second right costal or ' aortic ' cartilage ; mitral murmurs at the apex beat; tricuspid ones near the ensiform cartilage. Relation of vessels to the wall of the thorax.—Aortic arch.—The ascending [part reaches from a spot behind the sternum, a little to the left of the centre, on a level with the third left costal cartilage, to the upper border of the second right bartilage ; thus it passes upwards, backwards, and to the right, and is about two inches |long. The transverse part then crosses to the left behind the sternum (the highest part of the arch being about an inch below the notch), reaching from the second right costal cartilage to the lower border of the fourth thoracic vertebra on the left side. This part recedes from the surface, and, with the next, cannot be marked out pn the surface. The third, or descending part, the shortest of the three, reaches i'om the lower border of the fourth to that of the fifth thoracic vertebra. Innominate artery.—A line drawn from the top of the arch, about an inch jelow the sternal notch, and a little to the right of the centre, to the right sterno- plavicular joint, will give the line of this vessel. ; Left common carotid.—This vessel will be denoted by a line somewhat similar |]o the above, passing from the level of the arch a little to the left of the last starting point to the left sterno-clavicular joint. Left subclavian artery.—A line from the end of the transverse arch, behind :he left of the sternum, straight upwards to the clavicle, delineates the vertical thoracic course of the long left subclavian artery. (Sheild.) Innominate veins.—The left, three inches long, extends very obliquely from ■jhe left sterno-clavicular joint, to a point half an inch to the right of the sternum. In the first intercostal space. The right, about an inch long, descends almost i/ertically to the above point from the right sterno-clavicular joint. Venae cavse.—The superior descends from the point above given for the meeting )f the innominate veins in the first intercostal space, close to the sternum, and Derforates the right auricle on a level with the third costal cartilage. The inferior 7ena cava.—The opening of this vein into the right auricle lies under the middle )f the fifth right interspace and the adjacent part of the sternum. Internal mammary artery.—This descends behind the clavicle, the costal cartilages, and the first six spaces, about half an inch from the edge of the sternum. |[n the sixth intercostal space it divides into musculo-phrenic and superior epigastric irteries. THE ABDOMEN ' Skin markings ; bones and muscular landmarks.—The linea alba, or meeting pf the aponeuroses of the great abdominal muscles over, under, and between the ^'Bcti, reaches from the apex of the xiphoid cartilage to the symphysis. It is best narked above the umbilicus. Its little vascularity and comparative thinness fit ibis line for the point of election for operations on the abdominal cavity. In the