1106 THE URINARY ORGANS (1) The membranous urethra, suiToimded by its annular sphincter of smooth muscular fibres. (2) Cowper's glands, seen as two white pea-like bodies, one on each side of the posterior segment of the urethra. Their ducts pierce the superficial ligament. (3) The internal pudic arteries, lying close to the ischio-pubic rami imbedded in the fibres of origin of the compressor urethrse muscle, giving off each an arterv to the bulb as well as some twigs to Cowper's gland and to the muscular tissue surrounding the urethra, and terminating by division into the artery to the corpus cavernosum, and the dorsal artery of the penis. These branches with the associated veins have been seen to pass through the superficial triangular ligament into the superficial perinpeal interspace. (4) The pudic veins, accompanying the arteries. Their tributaries form a plexus around the urethra, and in the substance of the fibres of the deep transversa^ perinsei. This plexus, which is often largely developed in old persons, receives the veins of the corpus spongiosum and corpora cavernosa, and communicates freelv with the dorsal vein of the penis, and through this with the prostatic plexus. (5) The pudic lymphatics, accompanying the veins and terminating in th( pelvic glands. (6) The dorsal nerves of the penis, the terminal branches of the internal pudic nerves, accompany the arteries; each nerve gives off filaments to the deep trans versus perinaei, and then pierces the fore part of the superficial triangular ligamen; with the dorsal artery. (7) The deep transversus perinsei or compressor urethrse.—The musculai tissue of the deep perinseal space has been a source of great confusion owing to the multiplicity of the names which have been assigned to various portions of it; but th( description given by Henle may be accepted as at once the simplest and the mos accurate. The transversus perinsei profundus of Henle is closely connected witl the superior and inferior triangular ligaments. It arises from the inner surface o the ischio-pubic ramus, by tendinous bundles which separate to form a kind o channel for the pudic vessels and dorsal nerve of the penis, close to the bone. Fron this origin the greater part of the fibres run across the subpubic angle in i- transverse direction in front of and behind the membranous urethra, enclosiii; Cowper's glands and the deep veins of the penis, and join a more or less indistinc median raphe ; while others pass more or less obliquely forwards in front of th' urethra and behind the dorsal vein to become attached to the pubic ramus on th side opposite to the bony attachment. A small accessory bundle (the ' sagitta layer' of Henle) may sometimes be found running directly forwards to becom inserted into the upper surface of the bulb and into the connective tissue between the corpora cavernosa. The arrangement of the fibres differs considerably ii' different subjects, and much complexity has been introduced into the study oi the muscle by the artificial segregation of certain of its parts under special names, such as levator urethrse, constrictor urethrae, etc. ■ Its action is partly to compress the membranous urethra and thus assist th expulsion of urine and semen, and partly to intercept the flow of blood through the veins of the penis, and so aid in erection. It also exercises compressio ' upon Cowper's glands, and effects the discharge of their secretion during semina' emission. It is supplied by a branch from the dorsal nerve of the penis. ' The superior or deep triangular ligament (figs. 650, 652, 654) is in some soi a prolongation of the obturator fascia across the pubic arch ; the continuity of th! two fasciae, however, being interrupted by the attachment of their deep fibres t the inner edges of the ischio-pubic rami. Inferiorly it is in intimate relation wit 1 the deep transversus perinsei; while superiorly it forms on each side the floor of th! anterior extension of the ischio-rectal fossa ; and in the middle line it is separate • from the apex of the prostate by a prolongation of recto-vesical fascia, and by '