1165 FEMORAL HERNIA (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) Straining to expel urine, as with phimosis, stricture, stone in bladder, etc. Straining in defsecation. Lifting heavy weights. Eesults of wounds or abscesses which have weakened the abdominal wall. Whatever diminishes the abdominal cavity, e.g. tight-lacing. FEMORAL HERNIA As many of the parts concerned here are also met with in inguinal hernia, one description, given now, will suffice. With regard to descriptions of the inguinal and femoral regions, it is always well to bear in mind the following :—(1) That the so-called rings and canals are merely weak spots in the inguinal and femoral regions, and that they do not exist Fig. 710.—Superficial Dissection of the Inguinal and Femoral Regions. (Wood.) Superficial epiga<iiric artery Inguinal lymphatic glands Intereolumnar fascia - External abdominal ring Saphenous opening Superior external pudic ai^terif ILIO-INGUINAL NERVE Internal saphena vein Femoral lymphatic glands Pouparfs ligament Intereolumnar fibres of external oblique Superficial ciixumjlex iliac artery Deeper layer of fascia (reflected), the superflcial vessels being left attached to the external oblique Superficial layer of fascia (reflected) distinctly, and do not get beyond the potential stage, unless made by a scalpel or a hernia ; (2) that at the fold of the groin most of the layers blend together, and that descriptions of them as separate layers, for convenience sake in learning them, is more or less artificial; (3) that the description of these layers has been most needlessly complicated by the number of terms used, many of which are simply substitutes for others; (4) many of these terms are not only useless but incorrect, e.g. saphenous, crural, etc. Parts concerned in femoral hernia. (1) Skin and superficial fascia of groin.—The latter consists of two layers: (a) Superficial layer of superficial fascia.—Fatty, met with over the whole groin, and continuous with the superficial fascia of the rest of the body, {h) Deep layer of superficial fascia.—Thin and membranous, only met with over the lower third of the abdominal wall and to