908 OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE j j ear. The hollow from which it starts is called the concha. Within the helix, but separated by the scaphoid fossa (fossa of the helix) runs a second curved ridge, the antihelix. It commences below in the little process known as the antitragus, and | bifurcating superiorly, bounds a shallow fossa just above the concha, the so-called i triangular fossa (fossa of the antihelix). The concha bounded by the helix is | deeply notched below (incisura intertragica). Overlapping the commencement of | the notch before and behind are two eminences, the anterior and larger, the tragus ; \ the posterior, the antitragus. The auricle varies greatly in different individuals, i and the lobe perhaps more than any other part. | The cartilaginous framework of the ear, although it does not enter into all I its parts, gives to it the general character and appearance already described. | It consists of pliable reticular cartilage of the yellow elastic kind. It does not enter into the formation of the lobule, which consists entirely of dense connec- tive tissue and fat. Its lower portion is so rolled upon itself as to form a tube > incomplete above, which tails ofi' as it passes inwards to be attached to the lower , third of the external auditory meatus. This attachment is effected by means of a dense fibro-elastic tissue which allows considerable shifting on traction of ^ the pinna upwards and backwards. A section passing through the orifice of the ' meatus shows the cartilage greatly in excess of the fibrous membrane which Fig. 494.—Section through the Orifice of the Eight External Auditory Meatus. Fissure of Santorini. Posterior auricular artery- Section of cartilaginous portion. —-- EXTERNAL AUDITORY CANAL Lining membrane - —Fissure of Santorini completes its contour. Deeper sections show the cartilage diminishing more 1 and more until it forms scarcely a third of the lumen of the tube near the bony meatus. The channel is traversed by a couple of fissures, the fissures of Santorini; but these are not constant in their number, extent, or direction. These intervals are filled with fibrous tissue, and allow the canal to be straightened by traction on the pinna. The lower segment of the cartilaginous meatus is in close contact with , | the parotid gland. An abscess in this region may thus burrow through the fissures : and discharge itself through the external meatus. There is also a gap between , ^ the helix and the tragus bridged over by a band of dense fibrous tissue. Several fissures traverse the cartilage, and a deep cleft dividing the antihelix severs the j ^ caudate process from the rest of the cartilage below. , Ligaments.—An anterior ligament connects the helix with the root of the | zygoma, and a posterior passes from the concha to the mastoid process. j ^.^ A pair of ligaments belong to the cartilage itself, the strong band already \ described completing the orifice of the meatus, and one less marked passing between j | the concha and the processus caudatus. | , Muscles.—The extrinsic muscles, the attollens, attrahens, and retrahens aurem, have been described on page 458. The special intrinsic muscles are six in number. ^ They are difficult to display, and sometimes appear to be absent. i |