THE UBINABY OBGANS 1046 which give origin to a large portion of the posterior fibres are attached to the ti of the transverse process of the second lumbar vertebrae instead of that of the firsl The pleura has an indirect but important relation to the kidney. The inferio, limit of the pleural sac extends almost horizontally outwards from the lower borde of the twelfth thoracic vertebra, crossing the last rib near its neck, and the eleventi rib about two inches farther outwards. As a rule, the incision in renal operation! may be carried safely to the lower border of the last rib ; but, should this bone bi absent or very short, the eleventh rib may be mistaken for it, and the seroiii membrane would then be in danger. It is probable too that the pleura reachd to a lower point in those cases where the arcuate ligaments are attached to th second lumbar transverse process. The presence of a thirteenth rib would invoh, a contraction of the space available for the surgical exploration of the organ. i The upper extremity of each kidney is crowned by the suprarenal body (fig. 01' 612), which encroaches also upon its anterior surface and inner border, and is fixtl to it by connective tissue derived from the subperitoneal fascia. 1 The anterior or visceral surface (fig. 612) is differently related on the two side Ficx. 612.- -DlAGRAM SHOWING ANTERIOR EeLATIONS OF KiDNEYS AND Suprarenal Bodies. DUODENAL AREA HEPATIC AREA GASTRIC AREA (NON-PERITONEAL) (NON-PERITONEAL) CAVAL AREA (PERITONEAL) GASTRIC AREA OF SPLEEN •COLIC AREA (NON-PERI- TONEAL) MESO-COLIC AREA MESO-COLIC AREA The rigJit kidney is in contact in about its upper half with the renal impression the liver (page 1015), and below with the ascending colon and duodenum ; the hepai area being covered with peritoneum, while the second stage of the duoden and more externally the ascending colon are directly attached to the surface subperitoneal tissue; but the two non-peritoneal areas vary considerably in th relative proportions, not only in different subjects, but in the same subject und different conditions of distension of the duodenum and the colon. The seco: stage of the duodenum is also more or less in relation with the right renal vessel The left kidney lies behind the stomach, the pancreas, the splenic vessels, t descending colon, and the colic vessels. Its anterior surface may be divided in three portions : an upper or gastric area, separated from the stomach by t.j peritoneum of the lesser sac ; a middle or pancreatic area, attached to the pancre by subperitoneal connective tissue, and crossed also by the splenic vein where tt vessel lies behind the upper border of the gland, and by the splenic artery, whi( runs in a serpentine course immediately above the vein ; and an inferior or col ] area, the outer portion of which is covered by the splenic flexure and upper pa ■