i OF THE STEBNUM 225 The ligaments which connect them are really periosteum thickened by longi- jLidinal fibres, and also the radiating fibres from the chondro-sternal ligaments. ]he anterior is much stronger than the posterior. The gladiolus is joined to the xiphoid cartilage by a thick investing membrane, y anterior and posterior longitudinal fibres, and by radiating fibres of the sixth nd seventh chondro - sternal ligaments. The chondro - xiphoid ligament also pnnects the xiphoid with the anterior surface of the sixth and seventh costal . artilages, and thus indirectly with the gladiolus; and some fine fibro-areolar issue also connects the xiphoid with the back of the seventh costal cartilage. I The junction of the xiphoid with the sternum is on a level somewhat posterior p the junction of the seventh costal cartilage with the sternum. The union is hjnarthrodial. (d) The Inteechondbal Articulations Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. \ A little in front of the point where the costal cartilages bend upwards towards me median line, the sixth is united with the seventh, the seventh with the eighth, phe eighth with the ninth, and the ninth with the tenth. At this point, each of the cartilages from the sixth to the ninth inclusive is ieeper than elsewhere, owing to the projection downwards from its lower edge of a jbroad blunt process, which comes into contact with the cartilage next below. lEach of the apposed surfaces is smooth, and they are connected at their margins iby ligamentous tissue, which forms a complete capsule for the articulation, and is jlined by a synovial membrane. The largest of these cavities is between the seventh and eighth; those between the eighth and ninth, and ninth and tenth, are smaller, and are not free to play upon each other in the whole of their extent, being held together by ligamentous tissue at their anterior margins. Sometimes this fibrous tissue completely obliterates the synovial cavity. I The arteries are derived from the musculo-phrenic, and the nerves from the • intercostals. i Movements.—By means of the costal cartilages and interchondral joints, strength with elasticity is given to the wall of the trunk at a part where the cartilages are the only firm structures in its composition ; while a slight gliding movement is permitted between the costal cartilages themselves, which takes place round an axis corresponding to the long axes of the cartilages. By this means, the outward projection of the lower part of the thoracic wall is increased iby deep inspiration. MOVEMENTS OF THE THOEAX AS A "WHOLE Before describing these movements as a whole, it^must be premised that there I are some few modifications in the movements of certain ribs resulting from their jshape. Thus the first rib (and to a less extent the second also), which is flat on I its upper and under surfaces, revolves on a transverse axis drawn through the costo-vertebral and costotransverse joints. During inspiration and expiration, the [anterior extremities of the first pair of costal arches play up and down, the tubercles and the heads of the ribs acting in a hinge-like manner, the latter having also a slight screwing motion. By this movement the anterior ends of the costal arches are simply raised or depressed, and the sternum pushed a little for- : wards: it may be likened to the movement of a pump-handle, as in fig. 218, a, b. ' I The movements of the other ribs, particularly in the mid-region of the thorax, are more complex, for, besides the elevation of the anterior extremities, the bodies Q