1144 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY ! pushing upwards and outwards. In a female patient, if the thigh be abducted, the tense tendon of the adductor magnus will lead up to the site of the ring. The internal ring is situated about half an inch above the centre of Poupart's ligament; oval in shape, and nearly vertical in direction, it has the arching fibres of the transver- salis above it, and to its inner side the deep epigastric artery. The canal runs obliquely downwards and forwards between the two rings. In the adult it is about an inch and a half long, but in early life, and in adults with a large hernia dragging upon the parts, the two rings are much nearer, and may be one behind the other. If the external ring be exposed, and the finger thrust carefully up the canal, the following structures will be noted :—After the finger has carefully dilated the canal, its tip will be prevented from entering the abdomen by the infundibuliform fascia. If it be pressed downwards it will feel Poupart's ligament, which, with the meeting of the fascia transversalis, forms the floor ; above, it will be arrested by the arching fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis, coming down to the pectineal line to form the conjoined tendon. Towards the abdominal wall the finger will feel the aponeurosis of the external oblique stretching over the whole anterior aspect of the canal; if turned towards the belly cavity, the finger would feel less resistant layers, viz. extra-peritoneal fat and peritoneum, and, behind the external ring, the conjoined tendon. The finger would of course also take notice of the spermatic cord in the male and the round ligament in the female, and investigate any thickening of the former, and isolate the vas deferens. Vessels in the abdominal wall.—The three superficial branches of the common femoral, the external pudic (superior and inferior), epigastric and circumflex iliac, supply the lower part of the abdominal wall and the adjacent groin and genitals. The only others that have to be remembered are the deep epigastrics and epigastric branch of the internal mammary, the deep circumflex iliacs, the last two inter- costals, and the abdominal branches of the lumbar arteries. Of these, the deep epigastric is the most important ; its course will be marked out by a line drawn from a point just internal to the centre of Poupart's ligament, upwards and inwards to the inner side of the internal ring, and thence to a point about midwaj between the pubes and umbilicus. Here the vessel, which at first lies between the I peritoneum and fascia transversalis, perforates the latter and, passing over the fold i of Douglas, enters the sheath of the rectus. It then runs upwards, closely applied ; to the back of that muscle, and a little above the level of the umbilicus divides j into branches which anastomose with the epigastric or abdominal branch of the! internal mammary. i Lymphatics.—It is sufliciently correct to say here that those above the umbilical j line go to the axillary, and those below that line to the femoral glands. | Nerves.—The lower seven intercostals and the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal ; supply the abdominal wall. The sixth and seventh intercostals supply the skin over | ' the pit of the stomach'; the eighth the area of the middle linea transversa ; the tenth { that of the umbilicus ; the last thoracic, ilio-inguinal and ilio-hypogastric, the region, above Poupart's ligament, and that of the pubes. The ilio-hypogastric supplies i the skin over the external ring; the ilio-inguinal that over the cord and scrotum.} The last thoracic and ilio-hypogastric cross the iliac crest to supply the skin of the! buttock. j Viscera and visceral regions.—The general form of the abdominal space, and; the relations of the several organs before they are disturbed from their normal, positions, are given on pages 994 and 995. The arbitrary regions into which the | abdomen is usually divided are described at the end of this article. i The diaphragm.—The upper limit of the abdomen rises to the following levels : \ Its central tendon to about the lower end of the sternum, or the seventh chondro- sternal joint; the right half to about the level of the fifth rib, or about one inch below the nipple ; the left half not rising quite so high.