THE ARTICULATIONS 190 which is also extended over the front of the glenoid ridge to facilitate the play of ^,he interarticular cartilage. The ligaments which unite the bones are :— The capsular ligament is often described as consisting of four portions, which are, however, continuous with one another around the articulation. 1. The anterior portion consists of a few stray fibres connected with the anterior margin of the fibro-cartilage, and attached below to the anterior edge of the condyle, and above to the front of the glenoid ridge. Some fibres of insertion of the external pterygoid pass between them to be inserted into the margin of the fibro-cartilage. 2. The posterior portion is attached above, just in front of the Glaserian fissure, and is inserted into the back of the jaw just below its neck. 3. The external portion or external lateral ligament (fig. 192) is the strongest part of the capsule. It is broader above, w^here it is attached to the lower edge of the zygoma in nearly its whole length, as w^ell as to the tubercle at the point where the two roots of the zygoma meet. It is inclined downwards and backwards, to be inserted into the outer side of the neck of the condyle. Its fibres diminish! in obliquity and strength from before baclavards, those coming from the tubercle' being short and nearly straight. 4. The internal portion or short internal lateral ligament (fig. 193) consists of well-defined fibres, having a broad attachment, above to the outer side of the alar spine of the sphenoid and inner edge of the glenoid fossa; and below, a narrow insertion to the inner side of the neck of the condyle. Fatty and cellular tissue j separate it from the spheno-mandibular ligament which is internal to it. j The interarticular cartilage (fig. 194) is an oval plate interposed between and adapted to the two articular surfaces. It is thinner at the centre than at the circumference, and is thicker behind where it covers the thin bone at the bottom | of the glenoid fossa which separates it from the dura mater, than in front where it covers the glenoid ridge. Its inferior surface is concave and fits on to the condyle of the lower jaw ; while its superior surface is concavo-convex from before j backwards, and is in contact with the articular surface of the temporal bone. It j divides the joint into two separate synovial cavities, but is occasionally perforated! in the centre, and thus allows them to communicate. It is connected to the capsular ligament at the margins, and has some fibres of the external pterygoid muscle inserted into its anterior margin. There are usually two synovial membranes (fig. 194), the superior being the larger and looser, passing down from the margin of the articular surface above, to the upper surface of the interarticular cartilage below ; the lower and smaller one passes from the interarticular cartilage above to the condyle of the jaw below, extending somewhat further down behind than in front. When the interarticular cartilage is perforated, the two sacs communicate. The spheno-mandibular ligament (long internal lateral) (fig. 193) is a thin, loose band, situated some little distance from the joint. It is attached above to the alar spine of the sphenoid and contiguous part of the temporal bone, and is inserted into the mandibular spine of the low^er jaw. It covers the upper end of the mylo-hyoid groove, and is here pierced by the mylo-hyoid nerve. Its origin is a little internal to, and behind, but close to the origin of the short internaL lateral ligament. It is separated from the joint and ramus of the jaw by the external pterygoid muscle, internal maxillary artery and vein, the mandibular nerve and artery, and the middle meningeal artery. It is really the fibrous remnant of a part of the mandibular (Meckelian) bar. The stylo-mandibular ligament (stylo-maxillary) (figs. 192 and 193) is a process 1. Capsular. 2. Interarticular fibro-cartilage. 3. Spheno-mandibular. 4. Stylo-mandibular.