THOBACIC AOBTA 581 (2) The bronchial arteries (fig. 324) supply the bronchi and the hmg substance. They vary considerably in their origin, course, and distribution ; they are usually three in number—one on the right side, and two on the left. {a) The right bronchial generally arises either from the first right aortic inter- costal, or else as a common trunk with the left upper bronchial from the front of the thoracic aorta just below the level of the bifurcation of the trachea. It passes outwards on the back of the right bronchus, and is distributed to the bronchi and lung substance, {h) The left upper bronchial arises from the front of the thoracic j aorta just below the bifurcation of the trachea, or as a common trunk with the right bronchial, (c) The left lower bronchial arises from the front of the thoracic aorta just below the level of the left bronchus. Like the corresponding artery on the right side, the left bronchial arteries run outwards on the left bronchus, and, after dividing and subdividing on the back of the bronchi, supply the bronchi themselves and the lung substance. Small twigs are given off from the bronchial arteries to the bronchial glands and to the oesophagus. (3) The oesophageal arteries, four or sometimes five in number, arise at intervals ' from the front of the thoracic aorta, the first coming off just below the left lower bronchial. They usually increase in size from above downwards, the upper coming off more towards the right side of the aorta, the lower more towards the left side. They pass forwards to the oesophagus, supplying that tube and anastomosing with each other and with the descending oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid j above, and with the ascending oesophageal branches of the phrenic and gastric arteries below, thus forming a chain of anastomoses along the whole length of the tube. B. Parietal Branches (1) The aortic intercostal arteries, usually ten in number on each side, supply i the lower intercostal spaces, the two upper spaces being supplied by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery. The tenth artery runs along the lower border of the last rib, and would be better called the subcostal artery; it is similar in its distribution to the other intercostals, but is described separately. The aortic intercostals arise in pairs from the back part of the thoracic aorta, and at once turning, the one to the right, the other to the left, wind backwards over the front and sides of the vertebral bodies to reach the intercostal spaces, which they follow, and anastomose in front with the anterior intercostals given off from the internal mammary and musculo-phrenic arteries respectively. In foetal life these arteries run almost transversely backwards, or even with a slight inclination down- wards, to the intercostal spaces ; but after the first year, in consequence of the dispro- portionate growth of the aorta and vertebral column, the upper intercostals have to ascend to reach their respective spaces. For convenience of description the inter- costal arteries may be divided into two portions—the vertebral, which lies upon the bodies of the vertebra ; and the intercostal, which lies in the intercostal spaces. The vertebral portion.—The arteries in their course round the vertebrae differ I on the two sides of the body. On the right side the arteries—and especially the upper, in consequence of the aorta lying a little to the left side of the spine in the upper part of its course—are longer than the left. They wind over the front and j right side of the vertebrae, being crossed by the thoracic duct and vena azygos I major, and covered by the right pleura and lung. The upper are also crossed by the oesophagus. They give off small branches to the bodies of the vertebra and anterior common ligament. On the left side, as the intercostals wind round the side of the bodies of the vertebrae, the lower are crossed by the vena azygos minor, the two upper by the left superior intercostal vein, and the two next by the third [ azygos vein when this is present. They are all covered by the left pleura and lung.