OPTIC NEBVES 791 i nerve is established. The exact area of the cortex devoted to the sense of sight is still a matter of dispute, but the weight of evidence seems to be in favour of the cuneus being the cerebral centre of vision, j Other roots of the optic nerve are described, of which the direct cortical root I (Wernicke and Gudden) is perhaps the most important. This root leaves the optic tract as the latter is crossing the crus cerebri, and runs upwards in the inner capsule to join the optic radiation. Another root is described which passes from the optic chiasma into the central grey matter of the third ventricle. The descending root (Stilling) enters the crus and is variously distributed; a portion of its fibres become connected with the oculo-motor nucleus, and thus a path for reflex movements of the iris and ciliary muscle is probably established. Gudden's commissure.—Fibres emerge from the posterior quadrigeminal body, j constituting its brachium, and enter the internal geniculate body. After partial interruption in the nerve-cells of the latter, these fibres are continued into the optic tract and pass across to the opposite side, forming the back part of the optic chiasma, to enter into a similar relation to the internal geniculate and posterior quadrigeminal bodies of the opposite side. Meynert's commissure.—From the grey matter of the tuber cinereum fibres arise which cross the middle line behind Gudden's commissure and enter the crusta I on the opposite side, from whence they are said to pass into the subthalamic body. The optic nerve passes forwards and outwards from the chiasma and enters the orbit through the optic foramen, accompanied by the ophthalmic artery, the i vessel being external to and slightly below the nerve. It then slightly changes its I direction and passes almost directly forw^ards to enter the back of the eyeball about I three millimetres internal to and slightly below the posterior extremity of the optic axis ; having gained the interior of the eyeball its fibres spread out in the retina. In its course through the orbit it is surrounded by the ciliary arteries and nerves ; its upper surface is crossed obliquely by the ophthalmic artery, and the lenticular ganglion is in contact with its outer surface. Near the optic foramen it is sur- rounded by, and in close relation to, the four recti muscles; but further forw^ards it is separated from the muscles by an interval containing fat. The arteria centralis retinae pierces the under surface of the optic nerve near the middle point of the intraorbital part of its course and runs from thence into the eyeball in the I axis of the nerve. Very distinct prolongations of the cerebral membranes accom- pany the optic nerve. The dura mater, having entered the orbit through the optic ! foramen, delaminates into the orbital periosteum and the sheath of the optic nerve ; the latter is tough and strong, and becomes continuous with the sclerotic of the eyeball. Within the dura mater is a narrow subdural space, then the arachnoid and a comparatively wide subarachnoid space, the inner boundary of which is formed by the pia mater, which invests the bundles of nerve-fibres. I THIRD OR OCULO-MOTOR NERVES The third or oculo-motor nerve arises from a column of nerve-cells which is placed in the grey matter beneath the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius immediately [ dorsal to the posterior longitudinal bundle. This nucleus extends from the level ' of the posterior commissure to a point corresponding to the interval between the nates and testes, where it is imperfectly separated from the nucleus of the fourth nerve. The fibres arising from this nucleus pass downw^ards and forwards in a series of fasciculi, which traverse the posterior longitudinal bundle, the red nucleus, j and the inner part of the substantia nigra. The fibres emerge (superficial origin) in a r row of about nine fasciculi from the oculo-motor groove at the inner side of the crus. The third nerve passes between the superior cerebellar and posterior cerebral