THE GLITOBIS 1079 extremity of each is posterior and extends backwards nearly to the posterior commissure, touching the gland of Bartholin. The narrow anterior extremity, the pars intermedialis of Kobelt, runs forwards to meet its fellow of the opposite side beneath the clitoris. Superiorly, it is fixed to the superficial triangular ligament of the perinseum, while it is in relation internally to the urethral and vaginal orifices, and externally is invested by the fibres of the bulbo-cavernosus. It consists of erectile tissue, enveloped by a thin tunica albuginea. During the condition of engorgement it helps to narrow the vestibular portion of the vulva and the entrance of the vagina. The vessels and nerves of the clitoris and bulbi vestibuli are the same as those of the analogous parts of the male. The muscles appended to the erectile structures again are very similar to those 1 described in connection with the penis. The iscMo-cavernosi are identical in I attachments with the erectores penis; but the bulbo-cavernosi are separated in jj the middle line by the vulvar fissure, and appear on each side as a delicate, and sometimes very indistinct, plane of muscular fibres, called the constrictor vaginse, attached behind to the tendinous centre of the perinseum, and breaking up in front into tendinous slips which run in close external relation to the bulbi vestibuli, and become lost above and below the clitoris. Their function is to compress the bulbs and to constrict the vestibule and vaginal orifice. The transversi perinsei j have the same connections as in the male. j THE URETHEA (fig. 633).—The female urethra represents only the upper part of the male canal. It is similarly related to the superior and inferior triangular liga- ments, but is deficient in the sphincteric and glandular structures supplied to the I male urethra by the prostate. It is about an inch and a quarter in length, and is [directed upwards and slightly backwards to open into the bladder about three- quarters of an inch behind the middle of the symphysis. Its posterior wall is in con- tact with the vagina, and it is surrounded in front and at the sides by a plexus of veins (plexus of Santorini). The posterior margin of the meatus usually presents a tubercular prominence by which the position of the orifice may be distinguished during catheterism. As in the male urethra, the narrowest portion of the canal is the external meatus, but the whole tube is sufficiently dilatable in most cases to allow the careful intro- duction of the finger while the patient is under an ansesthetic. A case is recorded by William Cowper (1697) in which, as a result of an imperforate condition of the [hymen, it became the channel of sexual congress. In structure it consists of a mucous membrane presenting a few lacunae and some rudimentary glandular follicles, and a muscular coat divisible into external circular and internal longitudinal layers, both intermingled with fibres of elastic tissue and with large venous plexuses which may undergo varicose dilatation near the external orifice and form a pile-like tumour. It is surrounded by a muscular sphincter composed of striped and unstriped fibre corresponding to the deep transversus perinsei in the male, and partly perhaps to the musculature of the prostate. THE VAGINA The vagina is a passage which extends upwards from its external opening at the vestibule, and terminates above by embracing the neck of the uterus. Its vulvar aperture is guarded in the virgin by a fold of mucous membrane called the hymen. Form and direction (figs. 633, 634).—In its ordinary condition the vaginal I canal is represented by a fissure which in horizontal section assumes the form of the letter H, with a transverse limb about an inch in length and two short ; vertical limbs (fig. 633). In longitudinal section (fig. 633) the fissure branches above,