360 THE MUSCLES outwards to enter the upper part of the deep aspect of the muscle near its ulnar border. Action —(1) To abduct, and (2) to flex the first phalanx of the thumb. As the bones of the thumb are in a different plane to those of the fingers, this movement will draw the thumb forwards and at the same time slightly inwards. By its insertion into the aponeurosis of the extensor longus pollicis, this muscle will help (3) to extend the last phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—Superficially, the thenar fascia, and the superficialis vol^e artery, which usually perforates the muscle; deeply, the outer head of the flexor brevis pollicis and the opponens pollicis. Variations.—As already mentioned, it receives occasional slips from the radial extensors of the carpus and the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. It frequently receives a thin muscular slip from the skin over the trapezium ; it may also be supplemented by the opponens pollicis or a small slip from the styloid process of the radius. 2. OPPONENS POLLICIS The opponens pollicis, or flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis, is named from its action, as it helps in opposing the thumb to the other fingers and at the same time is a flexor of the first metacarpal bone. It is a short, thick, triangular sheet. Origin.-—(1) The front of the ridge on the trapezium below the preceding; and (2) the outer half of the lower border of the anterior annular ligament. Insertion.—The whole of the outer border of the anterior surface of the shaft of the first metacarpal bone. Structure.—Arising by a short tendinous or fleshy origin, the muscular fibres diverge fanwise to their insertion. The lower border of the muscle is often so blended Avith the outer head of the next muscle that the separation is somewhat artificial. Nerve-supply.—From the same source as the preceding ; the filaments entering the anterior surface of the muscle near to the upper part of its ulnar border. Action.—To flex the first metacarpal bone, which it draws forwards and inwards. This movement, on account of the shape of the carpo-metacarpal joint, is accompanied by a certain amount of rotation inwards, by which the palmar aspect of the thumb is made to look backwards and inwards. Relations.—Superficially, the abductor pollicis and the thenar fascia ; deeply, and upon its ulnar border, the flexor brevis pollicis. It also lies upon the joint between the metacarpal bone and the trapezium. 3. FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS The flexor brevis pollicis—named from its action and short length in compari- son with the long flexor—consists of two heads : each forming a flat triangular sheet. Origin.—The outer head arises from (1) the outer two-thirds of the lower border of the anterior annular ligament; (2) the lower part of the ridge of the trape- zium. The inner head, from (1) the front of the os magnum ; (2) the front of the bases of the first, second, and third metacarpal bones ; and (3) from the front of the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis tendon. Insertion.—The outer and inner sides of the front of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous as well as by fleshy fibres, the two heads become tendinous a short distance above the first metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and have imbedded in their substance sesamoid bones of a somewhat hemispherical shape,