PHBENIC AND LUMBAB 587 posterior branch. The former courses forwards and mwards, and anastomoses with the anterior branch of the left phrenic, with the musculo-phrenic branches of the internal mammary, and wdth the superior phrenic arteries; the latter passes out- wards and backwards towards the ribs, and anastomoses with the intercostal arteries. Besides the two terminal branches and branches for the supply of the diaphragm itself, the right phrenic gives off the following:—(1) Right superior suprarenal, ito the right suprarenal capsule; (2) caval, to the vena cava; (3) hepatic, to the liver; and (4) pericardiac, to the pericardium. The left phrenic crosses the left crus of the diaphragm behind the oesophagus, and then runs between the left and central leaflets of the tendon, dividing like the right into an anterior and a posterior branch. The former runs forwards and inwards, and anastomoses with the anterior branch of the right phrenic, the left musculo-phrenic from the internal mammary, and the superior phrenic artery. The latter courses outwards and backwards towards the ribs, and anastomoses with the intercostal arteries. In addition to the terminal branches, and branches to the diaphragm itself, the left phrenic gives off:—(1) (Esophageal branches to the oesophagus, where they anastomose with the other oesophageal branches ; (2) left superior suprarenal, to the left suprarenal body ; (3) splenic, to the spleen ; and (4) pericardiac, which perforate the diaphragm and anastomose with the other pericardiac arteries. The variations in the origin of the phrenic arteries are very numerous. The chief have been alluded to in the general description of the vessels. 2. THE LUMBAR ARTERIES The lumbar arteries (figs. 360, 363), usually eight in number, four on each side, come off in pairs from the posterior aspect of the abdominal aorta, opposite the bodies of the four upper lumbar vertebras. A fifth pair of lumbar arteries, gener- ally of small size, are frequently given off from the middle sacral opposite the fifth lumbar vertebra. The lumbar arteries, Avhich are rather longer on the right than on the left side, in consequence of the aorta lying a little to the left of the median line, wind more or less transversely outwards round the bodies of the vertebrge to ! the interval between the transverse processes, where they give off a dorsal branch, and then, coursing forwards between the abdominal muscles, terminate by anasto- mosing with the other arteries of the abdominal wall. As they wind round the I bodies of the vertebrae they pass beneath the chain of the sympathetic nerve, and the two upper beneath the right crus of the diaphragm on the right side, and the left crus on the left side. The right arteries also pass beneath the vena cava j inferior, and the two upper on that side beneath the receptaculum chyli. The I arteries on both sides then dip beneath the tendinous arch thrown across the sides of the bodies of the vertebras by the psoas, and continue beneath this muscle until they arrive at the interval between the transverse processes of the vertebra and the ! inner edge of the quadratus lumborum. Whilst under cover of the psoas they are accompanied by two slender filaments of the sympathetic nerve and by the lumbar veins. A little anterior to the transverse processes they are crossed by branches of the lumbar plexus, and here usually cross in front of the ascending lumbar vein. They now pass behind the quadratus lumborum, with the exception usually of the first, and sometimes of the last, w^hich may pass in front of the muscle. At the outer edge of the quadratus they run between the transversalis and the internal oblique, and then, perforating the internal oblique, between the internal and external oblique. Finally, much diminished in size, they enter the rectus, and give off one or more anterior cutaneous branches, which accompany the last dorsal and the