1134 SURGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY i The following uses and important points with regard to the anatom}^ of the deep cervical fascia should be noted. (A) It forms certain definitely enclosed spaces in which pus or growths may form, and by the walls of which these morbid structures may be tied down and thus rendered difficult of diagnosis, while their increasing pressure may embarrass the air-passages, etc. Thus : (1) In the first space, which lies between No. 1 and the skin, the structures met with, platysma I and superficial branches of the eervical plexus, are unimportant. Any abscess here is prone to extend, but superficially. (2) In the second space, between the superficial and sterno-clavicular layers, lies a narrow space containing loose cellular j tissue and lymphatic glands. Suppuration here is very common, but usually comes forwards. (3) This is the largest and most important of all. It is bounded in front by the sterno-clavicular, and behind by the prevertebral layer. Its contents are—larynx, trachea, oesophagus, thyroid, carotid sheath, glands; and below^, brachial plexus, subclavian artery, and abundant loose cellular tissue for the movements of the neck. Suppuration is somewhat rarer here; but either pus or growths, if ' confined in this space, may have baleful effects, from pressure, or from their tendency to travel behind the sternum. (4) This space, between the prevertebral , layer in front and muscles behind, is very limited. Retropharyngeal abscess forms here, and the dyspnoea it causes is thus explained. (B) The deep cervical fascia gives sheaths or canals to certain veins which perforate it, e.g. the external jugular. These are thus kept patent, and a ready passage of blood ensured from the head and neck. The carotid sheath is another and different instance. (C) It helps to resist atmo- spheric pressure. (D) Mr. Hilton's suggestion as to its action on the pericardium has already been mentioned. SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE THORAX Bony points.—The top of the sternum corresponds (in inspiration) to the fibro- cartilage between the second and third thoracic vertebrae, and is distant about two and a half inches from the spine. If traced downwards, the subcutaneous sternum presents a ridge opposite to the junction of the manubrium and body, and with the second costal cartilages on either side. At its lower extremity the xiphoid cartilage usually retires from the surface, presenting the depression of the scrobiculus cordis, or ' pit of the stomach.' This is opposite to the seventh costal cartilages and the expanded upper end of the recti, and corresponds to the ninth thoracic vertebra behind. Sterno-clavicular joint.^—The expanded end of the clavicle and the lack of proportion between this and the sternal facet, on which largely depends the mobility of this the only joint that ties the upper extremity closely to the trunk, can be easily made out through the skin. Behind the joint lie, on the right side, the innominate artery, right innominate vein, and pleura; on the left, the left innominate vein, the left carotid, and the pleura. Acromio-clavicular joint.—On tracing the clavicle outwards it is found to rise somewhat to its articulation with the acromion. This joint has very little mobility, \ and owes its protection to the strong conoid and trapezoid ligaments hard by. \ Owing to the way in which the joint-surfaces are bevelled, that of the clavicle looks obliquely downward, and it is an upward displacement of the clavicle which usually takes place on to the acromion. i Ribs.—In counting these, the position of the second is denoted by the transverse I I