THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 798 like the latter, it is entirely sensory in function. It proceeds forwards from the Gasserian ganglion for about one-third of an inch within the skull, and then passes through the foramen rotundum. It traverses the upper part of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and, inclining upwards, passes into the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure. It then courses forwards along the infraorbital groove, accompanied by the infraorbital artery, to the infraorbital canal, and passes through the canal to emerge at the infraorbital foramen, where it terminates, almost immediately, in three sets of branches, which proceed to the upper lip, the nose, and the lower eyelid. Branches.—The branches of the maxillary division may be classified into four sets, namely :—(1) Intracranial branches ; (2) branches which are given off in the spheno-maxillary fossa; (3) branches which arise from the portion of the nerve which is placed in the infraorbital canal; and (4) terminal branches. The first set (1) consists of one or two recurrent twigs to the dura mater, which form loops with the recurrent branch of the mandibular (inferior maxillary) division. The second set (2) comprises the orbital nerve, the spheno-palatine nerves, and the posterior superior dental nerves. (3) The middle and anterior superior dental nerves constitute the third set. (4) The terminal branches fall into three groups, which are termed labial, nasal, and palpebral branches. The orbital or temporo-malar nerve passes upwards and forwards through the spheno-maxillary fissure by which it enters the orbit, and terminates by dividing into two branches, temporal and malar. The temporal branch communicates with the lachrymal nerve, and then runs forwards through the periosteum on the outer wall of the orbit, and traverses the spheno-malar foramen. It enters the temporal fossa and pierces the deeper of the two lamellaB of the temporal fascia. It runs outwards for about a quarter of an inch in the fat between the two lamellae of the fascia, and pierces the superficial lamella about an inch above the superior border of the zygoma ; here it forms a well-marked communication with the temporal branch of the facial nerve, and then ramifies in the integument of