729 TEMPOBAL LOBE—ISLAND OF BEIL Three convolutions are present on the outer surface, running in an antero- posterior direction. They are termed the superior, middle, and inferior temporal convolutions. They become confluent with one another at the apex of the lobe. The superior temporal or inframarginal convolution lies between the Sylvian and parallel fissures. It is continuous above with the supramarginal and angular gyri. The middle temporal convolution, placed between the parallel and the middle temporal fissures, is continuous behind with the angular gyrus and middle occipital convolution. It is usually joined to the inferior occipital by the fourth annectant gyrus. The inferior temporal convolution is situated on the lateral margin of the hemisphere. It may be connected to the inferior occipital convolution by a fifth annectant gyrus. The superior surface of the temporal lobe is in contact with the operculum. It is crossed by two or three (sometimes four) transverse temporal convolutions. (Heschl.) Dissection.—The student should now raise the operculum and at the same time draw the temporal lobe downwards in order to bring the island of Eeil into view. The large branches of the middle cerebral artery which lie among the convolutions of the island should be removed, together with the adherent pia mater. The CENTRAL LOBE or ISLAND OF REIL corresponds to the floor of the embry- onic fossa Sylvii, and is placed external to the claustrum. It is situated under cover of the operculum, and is also overlapped by the temporal lobe and by the part of the inferior frontal convolution in front of the ascending limb of the fissure of Sylvius. It is of a triangular form with the base placed uppermost, the apex forming a prominence, the iimen insulse, which separates the vallecula Sylvii from the fissure of the same name. It is surrounded, except at the limen, by a curved furrow, the sulcus circularis Reilii (Schwalbe). From five to seven convolutions, the gyri operti, radiate from the limen insulie. The island is divided into a larger anterior part (pars frontalis), and a smaller posterior part (pars parieto-falciformis) by a constant fissure, the sulcus centralis insulae (Hefftler and Eberstaller), which has the same direction, and is in the same plane, as the fissure of Rolando. The pars parieto-falciformis is usually termed pars temporo-parietalis ; a study of the development of this part of the island has shown, however, that it is connected with the falciform and not with the temporal lobe. (Cmniingham.) Dissection.—The student is recommended to defer the study of the convolutions on the mesial and tentorial sm^faces of the hemisphere until the dissection of the corpus callosum is completed, and to proceed as follows. He should make a horizontal section through the uppermost part of the cerebral hemispheres; this will display the central core of white matter (centrum, ovale minus) surrounded by a convoluted border of grey matter. Within the white matter a number of minute vessels wiU be seen which appear as bleeding points in a fresh brain (the puncta vasculosa vel cruenta). He may then remove successive thin sections until he reaches the level of the corpus callosum, the fibres of which, spreading out into the hemisphere, form an extensive white layer called the centrum ovale majus. A far more instructive dissection, however, can be made b,y cautiously tearing the brain substance in a direction from within outwards mitil the callosal fissure is reached. By the latter method the following points can be made out in an ordinary well-hardened brain: (1) The white fibres entering each convolution spreading out so as to end perpendicularly to the surface. (2) The fibres from the body of the corpus caUosmn passing at first hori- zontally outwards into the hemisphere and then diverging, some sweeping iipwards to the parietal and frontal lobes, others bending downwards into the temporal lobe and following the long axis of that lobe. At the point where they bend downwards they readily break, as they are here intersected by fibres passing upwards from the inner capsule. (3) The fibres from the anterior and posterior extremities of the corpus callosum passing in a cm-ved manner into the frontal and occipital lobes respectively, forming the forceps minor and the forceps major. (4) A set of fibres, known as the cingulum, which run within the gyrus fornicatus, forming a sagittally-directed arch. The dissector should next study the corpus callosum and the convolutions on the inner face of the hemisphere. The convolutions on