402 THE MUSCLES Origin.—(1) The outer part of the front of the lower surface of the great tubercle of the calcaneum ; (2) the deep surface of the back part of the central portion of the plantar fascia ; (3) the back part of the intermuscular septa on either side. Insertion.—The sides of the middle phalanx of each of the four outer toes upon its plantar aspect. Structure.—Arising tendinous by a pointed process from the under surface of the great tubercle, the fleshy fibres extend in a fan-shaped sheet, which, about half- way between the origin and the heads of the metatarsal bones, divides into four fleshy processes which soon become tendinous. The tendons are arranged in a similar manner to those of the flexor sublimis digitorum in the hand. After splitting' beneath the first phalanx of the toe, the two halves of the tendon pass round the sides of the flexor longus digitorum tendon, and about the level of the base of the second phalanx they unite by their adjacent margins, and again diverge to be attached to the sides of the plantar surface of the second phalanx. Nerve-supply.—From the internal plantar division of the posterior tibial, by branches which enter the back of the deep aspect of the muscle near its inner' border. Action.—This muscle, which is comparatively feeble, will flex the second phalanges of the toes, and in combination with the flexor longus digitorum it will assist in walking, by pressing the under surface of the phalanges of the toes against the ground. After it has flexed the second phalanges, it will act in a similar manner upon the metatarso-phalangeal and medio-tarsal joints. Relations.—Superficially, the plantar fascia ; on either side, the other muscles of the first layer of the sole ; deeply, the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum and the lumbricales, the accessorius muscle, and the external plantar vessels and nerve, Variations.—The part of the muscle which belongs to the little toe is often absent, and its place may be supplied by a small perforated slip from the tendon of the flexor longus j digitorum. ^ 3. ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI The abductor minimi digiti (pedis)—named from its action upon the fifth anci smallest toe—is a thick triangular sheet, partly muscular and partly aponeurotic, i Origin.—(1) The outer side and the under surface of the front of the lesse]; tubercle of the calcaneum and the adjacent portion of the under surface of tha bone in front of the great tubercle ; (2) the upper surface of the back part oj the outer division of the plantar fascia; (3) the outer surface of the back part o ,' the external intermuscular septum ; (4) the long plantar ligament and other liga; mentous structures lying upon the outer border of the sole, and more especialbj an aponeurotic band which runs from the outer side of the lesser tubercle of thij calcaneum to the outer side of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and of the bas(j of the first phalanx of the fifth toe. j Insertion.—(1) The outer part of the under surface of the base of the firsj phalanx of the little toe ; (2) usually also the outer part of the under surface the base of the fifth metatarsal bones ; (3) the outer edge of the fourth tendon oj the extensor longus digitorum upon the back of the first phalanx of the little toe. j Structure.—The muscle, which is at first encased in the aponeuroses, frorj which as well as from the bone it takes origin, converges from both sides upon j tendon which is first visible on its under surface at the front of the calcaneum. i| small portion of its outer part is now inserted into the tubercle of the fift'i metatarsal bone, internal to the strong aponeurotic band which is also here attache( j From this point the tendon of insertion is free on its inner side, but receives flesh I i i