RELATION OF NEBVES TO SPINES OF VERTEBRA 1175 origin of the muscle from the sheath of the erector spinas and the ilium. A line from the sixth thoracic spine, almost transversely at first, with increasingly slight obliquity over the inferior angle of the scapula to the axilla and bicipital groove, will mark the upper border of the muscle. Another very oblique line from the point on the iliac crest upwards and outwards to the axilla will give the lower border and the tapering triangular apex of the insertion. The muscle may be attached to the angle of the scapula, or separated from it by a bursa. Triangle of Petit.—This small space lies above the crest of the ilium, at about its centre, bounded by the anterior edge of the latissimus and the posterior border of the external oblique (fig. 713). Origin of spinal nerves.—It is very important to remember the relation of these to the vertebral spines, in determining the results of disease or injury of the cord and the parts thereby affected. The above relation may be given briefly as follows:— The origins of the eight cervical nerves correspond to the cord between the occiput Fig. 717.- -Arrangement of Lumbar Aponeurosis at Level of Third Lumbar Vertebra. Sacro-lumbalis -•Transversalis •Internal oblique """External oblique Latissimus dorsi Quadratus lumborum Longissimus dorsi Psoas magnus and the sixth cervical spine. The upper six thoracic come off between the above spine and that of the fourth thoracic vertebra. The origins of the lower six thoracic nerves correspond to the interval between the fourth and the tenth thoracic spines. The five lumbar arise opposite the eleventh and twelfth thoracic spines ; and the origins of the five sacral correspond to the first lumbar spines. The diagram and table (page 1173), arranged by Dr. Gowers from anatomical and pathological data, show the relation of the origin of the nerves to their exit from the vertebral canal, and the regions supplied by each. Scapula, its muscles and arterial anastomoses.—Amongst the landmarks in the back, the student should be careful to trace the angles and borders of the scapula, as far as these are accessible. The upper border is the one most thickly covered. The upper angle corresponds to the upper border of the second rib ; the lower angle to the seventh intercostal space ; and the root of the spine of the Iscapula to the interval between the third and fourth thoracic spines. Fig. 716 shows !the chief arteries around the scapula. The anastomoses on the acromial process between the suprascapular, acromio-thoracic, and circumflex arteries are not shown.