754 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM The cerebellum is connected to the adjacent parts of the cerebro-spinal axis by- three pairs of peduncles : a superior pair to the cerebrum; a middle pair to the pons ; and an inferior pair to the medulla. I The great horizontal fissure is deeper than the interlobar fissures. It com- i mences at the point where the middle peduncle of the cerebellum enters the hemi- i sphere and pursues a curved course around the margin of the hemisphere, inchning first downwards, and then cur\dng slightly upwards, and crossing the middle line immediately above the incisura marsupialis, to pursue a similar course on the opposite side. On opening up the fissure, numerous folia are seen to run obliquely within it, some of which cross the floor of the fissure so as to connect the upper i and lower surfaces which bound the fissure. The great horizontal fissure separates the superior and inferior surfaces of the cerebellum. The superior surface of the cerebellum has a general inclination backwards i and outwards. This surface is approximately flat, but shows a slight concavity I corresponding to the superjacent occipital lobe of the cerebrum. Mesially the slope j of the surface becomes more abrupt, and forms the superior vermiform process. Of the fissures which traverse this surface the most important is the sulcus cerebelli superior, which branches off from the great horizontal fissure at its commencement ' and curves over the posterior part of the upper surface to approach the great horizontal fissure again at the superior vermiform process, where the two fissures are separated only by a narrow band, the folium cacuminis (fig. 427). The sulcus cerebelli superior divides the superior surface into a larger anterior part, the quadrate lobe, and a smaller semilunar posterior portion, the posterior superior lobe. Another fissure divides the quadrate lobe into an anterior crescentic and a posterior crescentic portion. The anterior crescentic portion is usually subdivided into two portions by another sulcus parallel to the fissure last mentioned. The superior vermiform process is divided by fissures, continuous with the sulci above described, into parts which are placed in the following order from before ■ backwards : lobulus centralis, monticulus cerebelli, and folium cacuminis. The lobulus centralis is a small squarish mass which is placed below and behind the testes, separated from the latter by a fold of pia mater. It rests below on the lingula, which separates it from the valve of Vieussens (fig. 426). It expands laterally into a pair of somewhat triangular folds, the alse (fig. 426), which are I entirely overlapped and hidden by the quadrate lobes when the cerebellum is viewed from above in its undisturbed position. The lingula is a small tongue-shaped portion of the cerebellum which lies on, and is adherent to, the valve of Vieussens. Its basal part is continuous with the lobulus centralis, and it consists of from four to five transverse folia. The monticulus cerebelli is divided into an anterior elevated portion, the culmen, and a posterior sloping part, the declive. The culmen connects the anterior crescentic portions of the quadrate lobes of opposite sides, and is traversed by the fissures which intersect these portions. The declive connects the posterior crescentic portions, and consists of about six or seven transverse folia. The folium cacuminis is a narrow band which connects the posterior superior lobes of opposite sides. It is not a simple folium, but is marked on its superior and inferior surfaces by transverse furrows. The inferior surface of the cerebellum shows a pronounced convexity corre- sponding to the inferior fossae of the occipital bone on which it rests. It is smoothly rounded off externally and behind, but changes its direction abruptly internally and in front, where it comes in contact with the medulla and pons. It is marked off into lobes, which are arranged in the following order from behind forwards : pos- terior inferior, slender, biventral, tonsillar, and flocculus. The posterior inferior is a narrow crescentic lobe, which bounds the great horizontal fissure inferiorly. The slender (lobulus gracilis) is similar in shape, but narrower, as its name implies. The biventral, shorter and thicker than the two last described, is divided by a