THE VOMEB 59 between them lodges the rostrum of the sphenoid, whilst the margin of each ala comes into contact with the sphenoidal process of the palate bone. Between the alae and the sphenoid a canal exists on each side of the rostrmn for blood-vessels. The inferior border is uneven, and is received into the groove formed by the crests of the opposed maxillae and the palatine bones of each side. The anterior border joins posteriorly the mesethmoid, and in front the triangular (median) nasal cartilage. The posterior border, smooth, rounded, and covered with mucous membrane, serves to separate the posterior nares. The anterior and inferior borders meet each other at the apex of the bone. Articulations.—The vomer articulates with the sphenoid, palates, ethmoid, and maxillae, and with the triangular cartilage. Fig. 69.—The Vomer at Birth. Blood-supply.—Its arteries are derived from the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, the naso-palatine, and the pterygo-palatine arteries, and twigs from the posterior palatines through Stenson's canals. Ossification.—The vomer is a membrane bone, and arises from a single centre deposited in the lower border of the perichondrium of the ethmo-vomerine plate as early as the eighth week. From this single centre a lamina of bone extends on each side of the cartilage plate. For many weeks the vomer is a shallow bony trough. Gradually it presses upon and induces absorption of the enclosed cartilage, and by degrees the laminEe fuse, and form a rectangular plate of bone. At birth the vomer presents an expanded lower border, especially in cases of cleft palate. THE NASAL These are two oblong bones situated in the middle line at the upper part of the face, and forming the bridge of the nose. Each bone has two surfaces and four borders. The facial surface is concave from above downwards, but convex from side to side. Near its centre is a foramen for the transmission of a small tributary to the facial vein. The posterior or nasal surface is concave laterally, and traversed by a longitudinal groove for the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. In life this surface has a covering of mucous membrane. The short superior border is thick and serrated for articulation with the nasal notch of the frontal. The inferior border is thin, and serves for the attachment of the lateral nasal cartilages. Each bone articulates with its fellow by the median border, which is prolonged backwards to form a crest ; this crest comes into relation with the nasal spine of the frontal and the anterior border of the mesethmoid. The outer border articulates with the nasal process of the maxilla.