1222 SUEGICAL AXD TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY tibia by a pad of fat and a deep bursa, save at its insertion. It has the foUoTvin^ relation to the femur in different positions :—(Ij In extension, the pateUa rises u} over the condyles, and in full extension only the lower third of its articular siu'faC' rests upon that of the condyles ; its upper two-thirds lies upon the bed of fat whicl eoTers the lower and front part of the femur. (2) In extreme flexion, as th( prominent anterior surface of the condyles affords leverage to the quadriceps, th* pateUa needs to project very httle ; thus, only its upper third is in contact witl the femur, its lower two-thirds now resting on the pad of fat between it and th* tibia. (3) In semiflexion the middle third of the patella rests upon the most prominen part of the condyles (Humphry). While the bone now affords the greatest amouE of leverage to the quadriceps, it is also submitted to the greatest amount of straii from this muscle, which is acting almost at a right angle to the long axis of tb pateUa. This position may therefore be called ' the area of danger,' as in a suddei and violent contraction the pateUa may be snapped across by muscular actior aided by the resistance given by the condyles, in the same way as a stick is snappe^ across the knee. Dislocation of the pateUa.—The foUowing anatomical facts account for thi taking place much more frequently outwards :—(1) The inner edge of the patell is more prominent, and thus more exposed to injury ; it is also less weU supporter" as is seen when, the parts being relaxed, the fingers are insinuated beneath eac border. (2) The puU of the extensor upon the pateUa, Ugamenturn pateUse, an tibia is somewhat outwards, as the tibia is directed a Uttle outwards to the femu: to meet the inward direction of this bone ; the femurs being directed inward hen to bring the knee joints nearer the centre of gravity, and, so, counterbalance the: wide separation above at the pelvis. The outward puU of the quadriceps upon xh pateUa is, in aU normal action of the muscle, counteracted by the space taken in th trochlear surface by the external condyle, this being vridei and creeping up highe and having a more prominent and thus protective lip. In \-iolent contractioi however, these counteracting points may be overcome. The condyles and tuberosities.—It should be noted that on the inner side th prominence of the iuternal condyle is weU marked, and that of the tibial tuberosit is less so, whUe on the outer side this condition is reversed. Descending to tl outer tuberosity, the Uio-tibial band of the fascia lata can be traced. The mo] distinct outer tuberosity is a good landmark for opening the joint in amputatic and iacision. It also indicates the lower level of the syno^-ial membrane of tl knee joint. The gap on the inner side between condyle and tuberosity is the pla( for feeUng for a displaced internal fibro-cartUage in ' internal derangement ' of tl knee. On each condyle, posteriorly, in a thin subject can be felt their tubercle which give attachment to the lateral Ugaments. Ov^ing to their being place behind the centre of the bone these Ugaments become tight in extension. On tl upper part of the iuternal condyle the adductor tubercle and the vertical tendon < the adductor magnus can be felt during flexion. This bony point is a guide to tl lower epiphysis of the femur, one of the latest to join, uniting with the shaft aboi the twenty-first year. It is a common site for exostoses in adolescents. The inn' aspect of this condyle faces practicaUy in the same direction as the head of tl femur. Ligamentnm pateUse and tubercle of tibia.—These, in a weU-formed le should, with the centre of the ankle joiot, be aU in the same straight line, a usefi point in the adjustment of fractures (Holden). Behiud the upper half of tl' Ugament is the s}^lo^ial membrane of the knee joint; below, the lower is separat( from the tibia by a deep bursa. In connection "^4th all the posterior surface is fa which sers'es as a useful packing in the different movements of flexion ai' extension. The tubercle of the tibia is on the same level with the head of tl fibula.