BASAL GREY COMMISSUBE 749 commissure. It is the largest part of the basal grey commissm^e, and is continuous laterally, above the optic tracts, with the grey cortex of the temporal lobes (fig. 421). In front it passes over the optic commissure into the lamina cinerea. It is continued below into a conical process, the infundibulum, which is directed down- wards and slightly forwards, through the minute central opening in the diaphragma sell^e to end in the posterior lobe of the pituitary body. The upper part of the infundibulum is hollowed out by a diverticulum of the third ventricle, the recessus infandibuli. The tuber cinereum and infundibulum correspond to the median recess in the floor of the third ventricle. The pituitary body, or hypophysis cerebri, is a small ellipsoidal body which is lodged in the pituitary fossa of the sphenoid bone. Its long axis is directed transversely, and its antero-posterior and vertical diameters are about equal. The pituitary body consists of two distinct lobes, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior lobe is of a reddish-grey colour, and is considerably larger than the posterior lobe, which it partially embraces. The posterior lobe, of a yellowish-grey colour, is lodged in a recess in the anterior lobe, and is the only part connected with the infimdibulum. This body was formerly described as the pituitary gland, because it was supposed to secrete the pituita, or mucus of the nose. According to Gaskell's ingenious theory, the infandibidum is the mouth of an archaic alimentary canal. The ventricidar system of the brain is the rudiment of the cephalic stomach as found in Arthropods. The central canal of the spinal cord is the archaic intestine, and the nem^o-enteric canal (an embryonic com- munication between the neural tube and the intestine) connects this archaic intestine with the ano-rectal region. The pituitary body is of great interest in the light of this theory, as it brings the archaic mouth to the surface. The posterior lobe is developed in connection with the brain, but the anterior lobe is formed independently'. It originates as an upward growth of the epiblastic invagination which forms the mouth, and is afterwards cut off from the pharynx by the chondrification and subsequent ossification of the skull. The optic commissure is formed by the union and partial decussation of the optic tracts of opposite sides. Each optic tract may be traced backwards from the commissure, around the crus cerebri, to the region of the corpora geniculata (page 752). The lamina cinerea is a thin plate of grey matter which may be seen from the base of the brain by pulling the optic commissure slightly backwards. It is continuous in front with the grey matter of the olfactory convolutions of the frontal lobes, and between the latter it is connected to the rostrum of the corpus callosum by the basal white commissure. Laterally, it is continuous with the anterior perforated space. It forms the anterior sloping part of the floor of the third ventricle. Dissection.—The student should remove the pia mater from the anterior part of the upper surface of the cerebellum, and also any of that membrane which may be still adherent to the quadrigeminal bodies. The anterior part of the cerebellum should now be gently pushed backwards until the quadrigeminal bodies and the lateral parts of the crura cerebri are fully exposed. The valve of Vieussens and the slender pair of fourth nerves which spring from its upper part are very liable to injury at this stage. In conducting this dissection, the student will notice a pair of broad white bands, the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, converging towards the lower pair of quadrigeminal bodies, and a thin white lamina, the valve of Vieussens, filling the interspace between them. The mesen- cephalon is now fully exposed, and its free surface should first be examined. Directions will be subsequently given for the examination of its internal structure. The Mesencephalon The aqueduct of Sylvius is a narrow passage which unites the cavities of the third and fourth ventricles : hence it is sometimes called iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum. It is roofed by a plate of grey matter, the lamina quadrigemina, which is surmounted by two pairs of elevations, the corpora quadrigemina. Its floor is formed by the tegmenta of the crura cerebri. Its outline in transverse