THE SKELETON 156 The position of the pelvis.—In the erect position of the skeleton, the plane of the pelvic inlet forms an angle with the horizontal, which varies in individuals from 50° to 60°. The base of the sacrum in an average pelvis lies nearly 10 cm. {i") above the upper margin of the symphysis pubis. The axis of the pelvis.—This is an imaginary line drawn at right angles to the planes of the brim, cavity, and outlet, through their centres. The average measurements of the diameters of the pelvis in the three planes are given below (after Lusk) :— Diameters At the brim At the outlet Conjugate . . . • inches 3| inches Transverse . . . . 5] ,, 4^ „ Oblique . . . . 5 ,, 4^ „ Sex differences.—In the male the pelvis is deeper, the ridges for muscles more marked, and the bones thicker, than in the female. In the male, the obturator foramen is described as vertically ovate, the pubic symphysis is deep, and the pubic arch small. In the female, the bones are thinner, lighter, and the iliac al^e more expanded than in the male. The symphysis is narrow, the pubic arch wider, and the ischial tuberosities more expanded than in the male. The obturator foramen is described as triangular. The pelvic cavity is larger in most of its measurements. The sacrum is wider, less curved as a rule, and has a less projecting promontory than in the male. THE FEMUR This bone is the largest and longest in the skeleton. The upper extremity is surmounted by a hemispherical cartilage-covered articular portion called the head, which is directed upwards and inwards, to be received in the acetabulum of the hip-bone. A little below the centre of the head is a small rough depression to which the ligamentum teres is attached. The head is connected to the shaft by the neck, a stout rectangular process of bone which forms with the femoral shaft, in the adult, an angle of 125°. Its anterior surface is in the same plane with the front aspect of the shaft, but it is marked off from it by a ridge to which the capsule of the hip-joint is attached. This ridge commences at the greater trochanter in a small prominence, the superior cervical tubercle, and extends obliquely downwards to the inferior cervical tubercle, and, winding to the back of the femur, becomes continuous with the inner lip of the linea aspera. The Avhole of this ridge is called the spiral line, but the part between the cervical tubercles is often called the anterior intertrochanteric line. The superior and inferior tubercles receive the limbs of the ilio-femoral or Y-shaped thickening in the capsule of the hip-joint. The posterior surface of the neck is smooth and concave, its inner half is enclosed in the capsule of the hip-joint. The superior surface is narrow, and pitted with nutrient foramina ; it runs downward to the greater trochanter. The inferior surface, concave in outline, terminates at the lesser trochanter. The trochanters are prominences which afford attachment to muscles which rotate the thigh; they are two in number, the greater and the lesser. The greater trochanter is quadrilateral, and surmounts the junction of the neck with the shaft. Of its two surfaces, the external is the broader ; it is bisected diagonally by a ridge running from the posterior superior to the anterior inferior