THE MUSCLES 416 Origin.—(1) The outer tuberosity of the tibia by a few fibres ; (2) the front of the head of the fibula ; (3) the upper two-thirds of the outer (or peroneal) surface of the fibula, occupying the whole of this surface above, and the posterior half of it below ; (4) the inner surface of the deep fascia of the leg, and the opposed surfaces of the two external intermuscular septa. Insertion.—(1) The lower part of the outer surface of the base of the first meta- tarsal bone ; (2) the lower part of the outer surface of the internal cuneiform bone close to its articulation with the first metatarsal bone. Structure.—This is a strong penniform muscle, the short fleshy fibres of which pass downwards, and for the most part forwards, to be inserted into the tendoE which, beginning about three inches below the head of the fibula, runs along the front of the outer surface of the muscle, and becomes free in the lower third of the leg. It then passes behind the outer ankle, beneath the external annular ligament! in a special sheath with the tendon of the peroneus brevis, which lies in front of it On the outer surface of the calcaneum it runs forwards and downwards in a specia' compartment of the external annular ligament below the companion tendon. At! the outer border of the foot it again changes its direction, and passes obliquel}! inwards and forwards across the sole of the foot, in a canal formed by the lon^i plantar ligament beneath, and by the groove in the cuboid bone above, to itsj insertion near the inner side of the sole. In the upper two-thirds of the leg th(! peroneus longus almost entirely conceals from view the peroneus brevis, which lies! beneath and slightly anterior to it. The synovial tube which it enters at the outer anlde is common to it and th( peroneus brevis, and bifurcates to accompany the two tendons where they are separated by the peroneal tubercle of the os calcis. A second sheath envelopes th« tendon in the sole, and where the tendon enters this canal it often contains { sesamoid bone which plays upon the front of the ridge of the cuboid bone. Nerve-supply.—From the musculo-cutaneous branch of the external poplitea nerve by filaments which enter the deep and posterior aspect of the muscle in it! upper third. Action.—(1) To extend the anlde joint; (2) to abduct the anterior part of th foot; (3) to depress the inner border of the foot, and so to evert the sole ; (4) h | drawing backwards and outwards the base of the first metatarsal bone, it tends 11 render more concave the antero-posterior and transverse arches of the foot. In th j former action it assists the tibialis posticus. In walking, it will act with the gastrocnemius and soleus in lifting the heel froi the ground, and its tendency to evert the sole and abduct the foot will counterac the opposite tendency of the muscles attached to the tendo Achillis. Moreover, th tendency of this latter set of muscles is to press the outer part of the ball of th toes firmly upon the ground. On the other hand, the influence of the peroneu longus in extending the foot is especially exerted upon the ball of the great to( By the combined action of all these extensors of the ankle the whole of the ba. of the foot is pressed evenly upon the ground and firmness of tread secured. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia, the external annular ligament; and i the sole the abductor minimi digiti, the adductor hallucis, and long plantar ligament in front, the peroneus brevis, the extensor longus digitorum, and the musculd cutaneous nerve ; behind, the soleus and flexor longus hallucis ; deeply, the externi popliteal nerve which occupies a fibrous canal below the head of the fibula, tt ankle joint, calcaneum, cuboid, and the bases of the second and third metatars; bones. Variations.—Sometimes a second peroneus arises between the peroneus longus ar brevis, and sends its tendon to join that of the peroneus longus. A slip may be given the external annular ligament. The insertion of the muscle may extend to the bases i the adjacent metatarsal bones.