1036 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION l the boYN'el to the left side, and comes to occupy the x^osition which it holds in the i fully developed body. The primitive meso-colon is displaced also to the left, and sur\'ives as the descending meso-colon, the sigmoid meso-colon, and the meso-rectmn (fig. 599). It may be so curtailed that no distinct fold that can be called a descending meso-colon is left, and the posterior part of the bowel is in such a case found to be more or less uncovered by the peritoneum. The meso-rectum is a genuine and but little disturbed relic of the simple median vertical fold of the primitive body. The duodenum is more or less bared of peritoneum, especially so far as its third part is concerned. The ascending colon has, hke the descending colon, been deprived of a con- siderable amount of its peritoneum. This membrane originally belonged to the common mesentery, but so much of it may have been abstracted from the bowel, that this part of the colon may be free from peritoneum behind, or may be con- nected to the posterior parietes by a short meso-colon. The parietal attachments (so-called) of this ascending meso-colon are entirely acquired, and have no relation whatever to the primary attachment of the median fold—the primitive meso-colon— to the posterior wall of the abdomen (fig. 599). The mesentery.—The mesentery proper—the fold belonging to the small intestines—in like manner and by a similar process acquires a new connection mth the posterior parietes. In using the term ' new connection,' it must be understood that the sac of the peritoneum remains quite unbroken, and that the numerous duphcatures of the membrane have simply been so readjusted and displaced that it' has in more points than one a reflexion from the posterior wall of the abdomen The mesentery is described as being ' attached posteriorly by a very short border which extends from the level of the attachment of the transverse meso-colon to the; left of the middle line directly down to the right ihac fossa where the ileum falls into the caecum' (Quain). This is the precise attachment made evident when the intestines have been all cut away, and nothing but the stump of the mesentery is left (fig. 599). The attachment is, however, wholly acquired or secondary, and has been brought about by an extensive readjustment of the peritoneum. The real attachment of the mesentery is about the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, and this attachment obtains in mammals below man. In fig. 599 is shown the posterior wall of the abdomen after the removal of the intestines, together witfcl the stomach, liver, and spleen. The lines of the various peritoneal reflexions are depicted in a diagrammatic manner. A line drawn downwards, commencing at the falciform ligament of the liver, and continued past the oesophagus, through the gastro-splenic omentum, descendmg meso-colon, and sigmoid meso-colon. represents the original attachment of the primitive median fold. All other lines of reflexion must be regarded as acquired or secondary. The meso-gaster.—It now remains to consider what becomes of the upper part of the simple primitive fold of peritoneum—the meso-gaster (m-g, fig. 593). The stomach enlarges, assumes more of its characteristic outline, and becomes less vertical. The liver may be regarded as an outgrowth from the duodenum. Its con- nections with the great veins of the heart cause it to extend upwards and to the right side. As it grows it separates the layers of the highest part of the peritoneal fold, and from this membrane it receives a covering. The remains of the primitive mesial fold persist in the form of the falciform ligament (figs. 593, 595, and 599). The gastro-hepatic omentum.—The connection of the liver to the stomach is intimate, partly through the association of the great gland with the duodenum, and partly through certain blood-vessels which pass to the stomach and Hver from the aorta. As the stomach enlarges, its duodenal end is drawn towards the right side; the viscus becomes transverse, the left wall becomes anterior, and the right posterior. The layer of peritoneum which stretches between the two organs is called the