THE ABTEBIES 530 Beanches of the Inteenal Caeotid Aeteey The cervical portion gives off no branch. The intraosseous portion gives off:—(1) Tympanic ; (2) Vidian. The intracranial portion gives off:—(1) Arteria receptaculi; (2) pituitary ; (3) Gasserian ; (4) meningeal; (5) ophthalmic; (6) posterior commmiicating; (7) anterior choroid; (8) anterior cerebral; (9] middle cerebral. Branches of the Intraosseous Portion.—(1) The tympanic enters the tympanum through a small foramen in the posterior wall of the carotid canal, and contributes its quota to the blood-supply of that cavity. It anastomoses with the tympanic branches of the stylo-mastoid and internal maxillary arteries. (2) A Vidian branch is also described, and is said to anastomose with the Vidian artery. Branches of the Bitracranial Portion.—As the internal carotid artery lies on the inner side of the cavernous sinus, it gives off the following branches:— | (1) Arteria receptaculi, small branches to the walls of the cavernous sinus; (2)! pituitary branches to the pituitary body ; (3) Gasserian or ganglionic branches; to the Gasserian ganglion ; (4) meningeal or anterior meningeal branches to the I dura mater ; these anastomose with anterior branches of the middle meningeal, j (5) THE OPHTHALMIC ARTEKY The ophthalmic artery (fig. 339) comes off from the internal carotid imme! diately below the anterior clinoid process just as the latter vessel is passing througl ; the dura mater. Entering the orbit through the optic foramen below and externa ] to the optic nerve, it at once perforates the sheath of dura mater which is prolonge( j through the optic foramen on both artery and nerve. It then runs in a gentL: curve with its convexity outwards below the optic nerve and external rectus, bein< j here crossed by the nasal nerve, and turning forwards, inwards, and upwards passes over the optic nerve, round which it thus forms a loop (fig. 339) to the inne; side of the orbit. Thence it runs obliquely beneath the superior rectus in front o the nasal nerve under the lower border of the superior oblique, but above th internal rectus, and continues its course under the pulley for the superior obliqn and reflected tendon of that muscle to the internal angular process of the orbi: where it divides into the frontal and nasal branches. Beanches of the Ophthalmic Aeteey | The branches of the ophthalmic artery are :—(a) the lachrymal; {h) the supr^i, orbital; (c) the central artery of the retina ; {cl) the muscular ; (e) the ciliary; (j\ the posterior ethmoidal; (g) the anterior ethmoidal; (h) the palpebral; (i) tl frontal; and {h) the nasal. (a) The Lacheymal Aeteey j The lachrymal artery is usually the first and at times the largest branch ] the ophthalmic. It arises between the superior and external rectus on the out j side of the optic nerve from the ophthalmic soon after that vessel has entered tl orbit. At times it is given off from the ophthalmic outside the orbit, and th( usually passes into that cavity through the sphenoidal fissure. It runs forwar j along the outer wall of the orbit with the lachrymal nerve above the upper bord | of the external rectus to the lachrymal gland, which it supplies. In this course j furnishes the following branches :—(i) Recurrent lachrymal, one or morebrancbj which pass backwards through the sphenoidal fissure, and anastomoses with 11 lachrymal branch of the middle meningeal artery. This anastomosis is soul