697 VISCEBAL LYMPHATICS OF THOBAX duct, but the vessels from the upper glands may join the efferent vessels from the bronchial glands (the bronchio-mediastinal trunk) and open into the right lymphatic duct. II. THE VISCEBAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS * OF THE THOBAX 1. The visceral lymphatics of the thorax include those from the heart and pericardium, the lungs and visceral pleura, the oesophagus and the thymus gland, with the glands into which these lymphatics respectively open—namely, the anterior mediastinal, the superior mediastinal, the posterior mediastinal, and the bronchial. The lymphatics of the pericardium end in front in the anterior mediastinal and superior mediastinal glands, and behind in the posterior mediastinal glands. The lymphatics of the heart begin at the apex, and follow the coronary vessels to the base, where they leave the pericardium, and unite to form a right and left trunk. The former passes over the arch of the aorta, then through one of the superior mediastinal or cardiac glands, and thence backwards to the trachea, on which it runs to join the right lymphatic duct at the root of the neck. The left trunk courses along the pulmonary artery, and, at the bifurcation of that vessel, passes through one of the posterior mediastinal glands behind the arch of the aorta, and thence runs up the left side of the trachea to end in the thoracic duct. The lymphatics of the visceral pleura and lung form a superficial set beneath the pleura, and a deep set which accompanies the pulmonary vessels and bronchial tubes. At the root of the lung the superficial join the deep, which then enter the bronchial glands. The lymphatics of the thoracic portion of the oesophagus begin as a plexus between the mucous membrane and the muscular coat, perforate the latter, and terminate in the posterior mediastinal glands. The lymphatics of the thymus terminate in the superior mediastinal glands. 2. The visceral lymphatic glands are the anterior mediastinal, the superior mediastinal, the posterior mediastinal, and the bronchial. The anterior mediastinal or sternal glands lie in front of the pericardium behind the sternum in the loose tissue of the anterior mediastinum. They receive the lymphatics from the antero-median portion of the diaphragm, the front of the pericardium and heart, some of the efferent vessels from the lower internal mammary lymphatic glands, and the lymphatics from the convex surface of the right lobe of the liver. Their efferent vessels pass upwards to the superior mediastinal glands. The superior mediastinal or cardiac glands lie in front of the upper part of the pericardium, the arch of the aorta, and left innominate vein. They receive the lymphatics from the anterior mediastinal glands, from the upper and front part of the pericardium and right side of the heart, and from the thymus gland. Their efferent vessels run up the sides of the trachea to join the thoracic duct and right lymphatic duct respectively. The posterior mediastinal glands are situated in the posterior mediastinum along the course of the aorta and oesophagus. They receive lymphatics from the back of the pericardium and left side of the heart, from the oesophagus, from the posterior part of the diaphragm, and a few from the right border of the liver. Their efferent vessels pass chiefly into the thoracic duct; a few into the bronchial glands. The bronchial glands are placed between the divisions of the bronchi at the root of the lung (pulmonary glands), and about the bifurcation of the trachea (tracheal glands). The larger glands, situated at the bifurcation of the trachea, are twenty or thirty in number. They receive the lymphatics from the lung and