778 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM i central canal (substantia gelatinosa centralis). The latter is continued into the i ependyma of the cerebral ventricles, (b) The substantia spongiosa is much more j extensive than the substantia gelatinosa, and contains large nerve-cells. These | cells are arranged in definite groups. In the anterior horn there are large cells | which are connected with the anterior roots, and are called motor-cells. In the lower lumbar region these motor-cells are disposed in four groups : a central (occupying nearly the centre of the anterior horn), a mesial, a latero-ventral, and a latero-dorsal. The latero-dorsal group represents the lateral horn (tractus | intermedio-lateralis). The lateral horn is represented throughout the cord, but is i best seen in the upper dorsal region where it projects like a beak. It is to be i distinctly understood that these groups of cells are the expression in cross-section \ of long columns of cells which are placed longitudinally in the grey matter. In I the dorsal region of the cord a very remarkable column of cells (Clarke's column) i is found. It occupies the inner side of the base of the posterior horn. It com- mences opposite the origin of the seventh or eighth cervical nerve, and disappears at the level of the second or third lumbar. It is at its maximum opposite the eleventh or twelfth dorsal nerve. It is encircled and as it were mapped out' by fibres belonging to the posterior roots. In the cervical region, immediately behind \ the lateral horn, trabeculge of grey matter extend outwards for a short distance, and enclose strands of white fibres in their meshes. This network is called the i processus reticularis. The central canal of the cord is lined by ciliated epithelium ; it is continued i into the filum terminate for about half the length of the latter, and is here some- I what dilated ; a few nerve-fibres accompany the canal into the filum terminale, and I are supposed to be rudimentary coccygeal nerves. The canal is dilated in the ; conus medullaris, forming an irregular cavity, the sinus rhomboidalis inferior, or j ventriculus terminalis. | In transverse sections through the spinar'cord made in the dissecting room the general ' arrangement of the grey and white matter can be made out, and sections from the different regions of the cord can be distinguished from one another in fresh specimens, especially with the aid of a pocket lens. In the upper cervical region (at the level of the second or third cervical nerves) the | grey matter forms an H-shaped outline bearing a great resemblance to the outline in the dorsal region (fig, 439, B). Sections through this region are very difficult to distinguish fi-om sections of the dorsal cord with the naked eye. The microscope, however, reveals the absence of Clarke's column and the presence, in some cases, of root-fibres of the spinal accessory nerve. In the lower cervical region (fig. 439, A) the cord is elhptical in outline and the anterior horns of the grey crescents are very large; the section shows a certain similarity to a section i through the lumbar region (fig. 439, C). In the latter, however, the anterior horns are I more evenly rounded, the general outline approaches more nearly to a ch-cle, and the proportion of grey to white matter has greatly increased. j Sections of the dorsal region can be easily recognised with the microscope by the i presence of Clarke's column, which is confined to the dorsal, lowest part of the cervical, \ and the uppermost part of the lumbar regions. | Sections through the part of the cord from which the sacral nerves arise show a great j preponderance of grey matter. This feature becomes more marked as the termination of the cord is approached (fig. 439, D, E, and F). DEEP OKIGIN OF THE SPINAL NERVES The deep origins of the spinal nerves are (undoubtedly in the case of the anterior j roots, and possibly also in the case of the posterior roots) from nerve-cells embedded I in the grey matter of the cord. Only the principal connections of the roots are j described here ; other connections which are still doubtful are, for the sake of | simplicity, omitted. But little can be learned regarding the course of these nerve- | roots from the normal adult cord, and the facts detailed here have been chiefly l ascertained by embryological and pathological research. The success of the j