LYMPHATICS OF ABDOMEN AND PELVIS 701 The external iliac lymphatic glands lie along the course of the external ihac and common iliac arteries and veins. They are three to five or more in nmnber. They receive the lymphatics from the inguinal glands and femoral glands, and the deep lymphatic vessels accompanying the deep epigastric and deep circum- flex iliac arteries and veins from the anterior and lower abdominal walls. Their efferent vessels join the lumbar glands. They communicate with the internal iliac glands. The internal iliac glands are situated in the course of the internal iliac artery and its branches. They vary from nine to twelve or more in number, the largest being situated at the upper part of the great sciatic foramen. They receive the lymphatics from the muscles of the pelvis and the lymphatics corresponding to the branches of the internal iliac artery. Thus the greater number of the lymphatics from the pelvic viscera, from the deeper parts of the perinasum, and from the hinder and deeper parts of the scrotum or labia majora, the deep lymphatics of the penis and posterior part of the urethra, the deep lymphatics from the gluteal region, and some of the lymphatics from the adductor muscles of the upper part of the thigh, join these glands. Their efferent vessels pass to the lumbar glands. The sacral glands are situated in the hollow of the sacrum, four or five being placed in the meso-rectal folds opposite its promontory. They receive the lymphatics from the rectum and the hinder walls of the pelvis. They join the lumbar glands. The lumbar glands lie beneath the peritoneum, at the back of the abdomen, on the front and sides of the lumbar vertebrae. They are usually divided into three groups, a median and two lateral; but these freely communicate with each other across the aorta and vena cava. The median group (aortic lumbar glands) consists of about six large glands placed along the abdominal aorta and vena cava. They extend from the bifurcation of the aorta to the second lumbar vertebra. The median group receive the efferent vessels of the external and internal iliac and sacral glands, the lymphatics accompanying the spermatic or ovarian vessels from the testicle or ovarian plexus respectively, and the lymphatics of the kidneys, suprarenal bodies, and hinder portion of the diaphragm. They also receive most of the efferent vessels from the lateral sets. Their efferent vessels commonly unite about the level of the second lumbar vertebra to form a right and a left lumbar lymphatic trunk, which open, with some small vessels from the lateral sets, into the receptaculum chyli. The left lumbar trunk also receives the lymphatics of the descending colon and sigmoid flexure. The lateral lumbar glands, transverse lumbar cfin psoas glands, are situated behind the psoas between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. They are twenty or thirty in number, and smaller than the glands of the central group. The lateral glands receive the lymphatics accompanying the lumbar arteries, the lymphatics from the muscles of the back, the spinal canal, and from the deeper parts of the parietes of the posterior abdominal walls. Their efferent vessels open, in part into the median set, and in part, as separate vessels, into the receptaculum chyli. The coeliac glands, sixteen to twenty in number, are grouped around the coeliac axis in front of the aorta, above the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. At the back of the transverse meso-colon they receive the efferent vessels from some of the hepatic glands, the superior gastric glands, the inferior gastric glands, the splenic and the pancreatic glands. Their efferent vessels join the intestinal lymphatic trunk, and open into the receptaculum chyli.