PARTS CONCEBNED IN INGUINAL HEBNIA 1159 backwards in a line drawn from the umbilicus to the coccyx. Besides its direction, its size, shape, mobility, and consistence should be noted. The os uteri should form I dimple or fissure in the centre of the cervix. Of its two lips the posterior is the bicker and more fleshy-feeling of the two. The vaginal culs-de-sac or fornices are ext explored. These should be soft and elastic, giving an impression to the finger imilar to that when it is introduced into the angles of the mouth. Any resistance elt here may be due to scars, swellings connected with the uterus (displacements, or yomata), effusions of blood or inflammatory material, and, in the case of the lateral uls-de-sac, a displaced or enlarged ovary, or dilatations of the Fallopian tubes. ; HERNIA PAETS CONCEENED IN INGUINAL HEENIA In inguinal hernia, as in femoral and umbilical, there is a weak spot in the bdominal wall—one.weakened for the needful passage of the testicle from inside 0 without the abdomen. The parts immediately concerned are the two abdominal ings, external and internal, and the canal. Now it must be remembered at the utset that the rings and canal are only potential—they do not exist as rings r canal save when opened up by a hernia, or when so made by the scalpel. The anal is merely an oblique slit or flat-sided passage. The external and internal ings are so intimately blended with the structures that pass through them, and 0 filled by them, that they are potential rings only. EXTERNAL RING.—This is usually described as a ring: it is really only a separa- ion or gap in the aponeurosis of the external oblique, by which in the male the esticle and cord, and in the female the round ligament by which the uterus is ept tilted a little forwards, pass out from the abdomen. The size of this opening, he development and strength of its sides or pillars, the fascia closing the ring—all ary extremely. Formation: by divergence of two fasciculi of the external oblique poneurosis. Boundaries : two pillars—(1) Internal, the smaller, attached to the 7mphysis and blending with the suspensory ligament of the penis; (2) external, tronger, attached to the pubic spine and blending with Poupart's ligament, and so ith the fascia lata. On this outer, stronger pillar rests the cord (and so the weight f the testicle), or round ligament. Shape : triangular or elliptical, with the base ownwards and inwards towards the pubic spine. Intercolumnar fascia. External spermatic fascia.—This, derived from the ower part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, ties the two pillars together, nd, being continued over the cord, prevents there being any ring here, unless ade with a scalpel. This is the rule in the body: when any structure passes hrough an opening in a fibrous or muscular layer, it carries with it a coating "f tissue from that layer; e.g. the inferior cava passing through the foramen -.uadratum in the diaphragm, and the membranous urethra through the triangular igament. Effect of position of the thigh on the ring.—As the lower pillar is blended with oupart's ligament, and as the fascia lata is connected with this, movements of he thigh will aflect the ring much, making it tighter or looser. Thus extension nd abduction of the thigh stretch the pillars and close the ring. In flexion and dduction of the thigh the pillars are relaxed; and this is the position in which "eduction of a hernia is attempted. In flexion and abduction of the thigh, the ring