1127 THE NECK imo-hyoid ; (3) those below the omo-hyoid. The position of the anterior jugular, iurving outwards to pass beneath both origins of the muscle a little above the ilavicle, and the external jugular, crossing at a varying level the outer border of he clavicular origin, must be remembered in such operations as tenotomy here. Chese veins are joined by numerous transverse branches, getting larger below. Behind the sterno-clavicular joint lie the commencement of the innominate eins, the bifurcation of the innominate artery on the right, and the common arotid artery on the left ; deeper still lie the pleura and lung. The occasional Fig. 674.—The Internal Carotid Artery, and Deep Branches of the External Carotid Artery. (From a dissection in the Hunterian Museum.) External carotid artery Temporal artery Internal maxillary artery Tr an averse facial artery STENSON'S DUCT Superior obliqua Splenius capitis, cut Third part of occipital artery ^^^^ erior constrictor -\ ingpalatine artery —7— ending pharyngeal i4n artery nal carotid artery, — cut short ( . Stylo-pharyngeus — \l~rfr— Posterior auricular artery . First part of occipital artery ■ jy Princeps cervicis artery Occipital part of vertebra artery Inferior oblique Complexus Lingual artery Semispinalis colli Ascending cervical artery Deep cervical artery Sterno-mastoid, cut SUBMAXILLARY GLAND Siqyerior thyroid artery Kectus capitis antieus major high position of the innominate on the trachea may be a point of importance in tracheotomy, both at the time of the operation, and later on, from the fatal facility with which a metal tube, if long retained after a low tracheotomy, may ulcerate into the vessel. In front of the sterno-mastoid is the anterior triangle, which is subdivided into three smaller triangles by the digastric muscle above, and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid below. These smaller triangles are called, from above, the submaxillary, the superior and inferior carotid triangles. The submaxillary or supra-hyoid