1090 THE FEMALE BEPBODUCTIVE OBGANS outer extremity of the tube appearing also as an innermost layer. The circula layer is most attenuated near the fimbriated extremity. The mucous membrane i ■ characterised mainly by its plications. The folds are longitudinal in direction, an relatively simple in the isthmus, where the cavity appears as a stellate fissure whe cut across ; but in the ampulla the multiplication of surface is very complex, and i a transverse section presents a deceptive appearance of branching tubular gianc' within the depth of a thick mucosa. At the fimbriated extremity of the tube, tb plications are continued on to the fringes. The epithelium is cylindrical an cihated, the motion being towards the uterus. At the trumpet-shaped extremity passes by transition into the pavement epithelium of the serous membrane. TI subepithelial tissue contains a longitudinal vmscularis mucosce. THE OVARIES The ovary (fig. 635) is a paired organ which projects strongly from the posteri- surface of the broad ligament. Its longest diameter averages an inch and a half, i greatest breadth about three-quarters of an inch, its thickness about half an incl and its weight is ordinarily about 100 grains. The right is usually a little larg than the left. Form, position, etc.— The typical shape resembles that of a broad almon In anatomical preparations it appears as a horizontal appendage to the back of t • broad ligament with an anterior attached border, a posterior free border, superi] and inferior surfaces, an inner extremity connected with the utero-ovarian lig ment, and an outer extremity receiving the fimbria ovarica of the Fallopian tub it is most probable however that the position is different when the organs are situ under normal circumstances. Symington in his examination of frozen sectio in children found the ovary lying in a sagittal plane against the side wall of t pelvis with its long axis nearly vertical, so that its surfaces were internal and extern its borders anterior and posterior, and its extremities upper and lower, while t Fallopian tube ran upwards along the anterior attached border of the gland, tb arching backwards above its upper extremity to end in the fimbriaB; and where t fimbriae are fully developed they may embrace the posterior free border, and th the tube is wound almost completely around the gland, leaving only the late surfaces exposed. The external surface is said to lie against the pelvic wall ii hollow between the internal iliac artery and vein. The organ when enlarged n: be felt through the vagina, and, better, through the rectum, and its position w regard to the surface is indicated by a point about two inches to the inner side the anterior superior spine of the ilium. The surfaces and free border are of a cl white, and after puberty are scarred by breaches of surfaces due to the dehisce] of ripe ova ; the attached border is pierced by the ovarian vessels and nerves wh lie between the layers of the broad ligament, and their point of entrance is tern the hilum. i Structure.—The ovary consists of a parenchyma and a kind of capsule, ' tunica albuginea. The latter, unlike the tunica albuginea of the testis, i^ / modification of the stroma of the gland, and does not exceed the two-hundred-a: fiftieth of an inch in thickness ; it is covered with an epithelium (column ] differing in character from that of the serous membrane with which it is connect [ The true gland-structure is a mass of connective tissue and unstriped muscle i vessels and nerves. It s very vascular in the neighbourhood of the hilum, wh ! the veins are peculiarly large and closely set, and is condensed into a kind of cor f beneath the albuginea. The cortex is about half a line in thickness, and cons; |i