EXTENSOR BBEVIS DIGITOBUM—PEEONEUS LONGUS 415 MUSCLE ON THE DORSUM OF THE FOOT This consists of the four bellies of one muscle—the extensor brevis digitorum. , EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM The extensor brevis digitorum—named from its being the shorter of the two nuscles which extend the toes—is a triangular sheet which breaks up in front into 'our small divisions. Origin.-—(1) The outer part of the upper surface of the great process of the jalcaneum; (2) the interior of the loop of fascia which forms the outer part of the ower anterior annular ligament. Insertion.—By four tendons into the four inner toes ; the innermost is attached j]0 the outer border of the upper surface of the first phalanx of the great toe near ts base ; the three other tendons to the outer border of the tendons of the extensor ongus digitorum just in front of the bases of the first phalanges. Structure.—Arising superficially by fleshy, and on the deep surface by short tendinous fibres, the muscle diverges iuAvards and forwards, and soon divides into i'our fleshy bellies, of which that to the great toe is the largest and most separate. iEach portion has a bipenniform arrangement, with its central tendon upon the jiorsal surface, and becoming free opposite the middle of the metatarsus. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior tibial nerve by small filaments which enter |:he deep surface of the muscle near its inner border as it crosses the cuboid and jBxternal cuneiform bones. ^ Action.—(1) To extend the four inner toes. In the case of the outer toes the two last phalanges will be chiefly extended, and the obliquity of its insertion, by causing t to draw the toes somewhat outwards at the same time that it extends them, will mable it to correct the opposite tendency of the long extensor. (2) The innermost ;endon will act as an adductor of the first phalanx of the great toe. ! Relations.— Superficially, the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius ; deeply, the tarsal and tarso-metatarsal joints ; and, in the case of jihe tendon to the great toe, the dorsalis pedis vessels and the termination of the anterior tibial nerve. ! Variations.—The number of tendons may be diminished or increased. Sometimes a lendon is given to the little toe. Accessory bundles may be derived from some of the tarsal or metatarsal bones, and slips have been foimd running to the dorsal interossei; and also a small slip between the first and second bellies, going to the inner side of the j^econd toe or its metatarsal bone. MUSCLES ON THE OUTER SIDE OF THE LEG Consists of two muscles—the peroneus longus and brevis—situated upon the uter side of the fibula in a compartment of quadrilateral section, bounded inter- ally by the fibula, in front and behind by intermuscular septa, and externally by ihe deep fascia of the leg. 1. PERONEUS LONGUS The peroneus longus (figs. 292, 296)—named from its being the longer of the two fibularj",muscles—is long and fusiform.