MOBPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL 103 Concerning the remaining bones little need be said. The vomer is a delicate trough of bone for the reception of the inferior border of the ethmo-vomerine plate ; its inferior border, that which rests upon the palate, is broad, and the bone presents quite a different appearance to the adult vomer. The nasal bones are short but broad; the malar and inferior turbinals are relatively very large; and the lachrymals are thin, frail, and delicate lamellfe. The hyoid consists of its usual five parts. There is a median nucleus for the basi- hyal, and one on each side for the greater cornua (thyro-hyals). The lesser cornua are cartilaginous. Fig. 110.—The Maxilla at Birth. PRE-MAXILLARY PORTION Outer view. Inferior view. Inner view. Remnants of the cartilaginous cranium.—It has already been pointed out that at an early date the base of the skull and the face are represented by hyaline cartilage, which for the most part is rej^laced by bone before birth. Even at birth remnants of this primitive chon- dral skull are abundant. In the cranium, cartilaginous tracts exist between the various j portions of the occipital bone, as well as at the line of junction of the occipital with the petrosal and sphenoid. The dorsum ephippii is entirely cartilaginous at birth, and the last portion of this cartilage disappears with the ankylosis of the basi-occipital and basi-sphenoid about the twenty-fifth year. A similar strip of cartilage lying between the jugular process and the jugular surface of the petrosal persists until late in life. A strip Fig. 111.—The Mandible at Birth. of cartilage unites the ali-sphenoids with the lingulas, and for at least a year after birth this cartilage is continuous with that which throughout life occupies the sphenotic (middle lacerated) foramen. A strip of cartilage exists along the posterior border of the orbito- sphenoid, and not infrequently extends outwards to the pterion. In the adult skull it is replaced by ligamentous tissue. The ethmo-vomerine plate is entirely cartilaginous, and near the end of the nose sup- ports the lateral nasal cartilages, remnants of the fronto-nasal plate. The fate of the ethmo-vomerine plate is instructive. The upper part is ossified to form the mesethmoid; the lower part atrophies from the pressure exerted by the vomer ; the tip remains as the