781 TBACTS OF THE SPINAL COED the anterior commissure, cross a second time at the pyramidal decussation, and thus regain the side of the body from which they originally started. The two tracts, now united, form the pyramidal body, and ascend as a compact bundle as far as the pons Varolii. They then traverse the latter structure in the form of flattened fasciculi separated from one another by the transverse fibres of the pons. Then they emerge at the upper border of the pons, and pass upwards in the crusta of the crus cerebri forming about the middle third of that body. From thence they pass through the anterior moiety of the posterior limb of the inner capsule, and end in the Eolandic area; that is to say, in the paracentral lobule, the ascending frontal, and the ascending parietal convolutions. The anterior ground bundle and the mixed lateral zone may be described together, as their connections are similar, and they are only mapped off from one another by the fibres of the anterior roots, which cut through them. Taken thus together, they may be said to consist of fibres belonging to the anterior roots and of longitudinal commissural fibres. The latter fibres unite the groups of motor cells of different levels in the anterior horn with one another. Traced into the medulla, the anterior ground bundle gradually recedes from the surface as it becomes overlapped by the pyramidal body. Its fibres pass backwards, outwards, and upwards through the substance of the medulla, and then bend inwards towards the middle line and form the most dorsal portion of the substantia reticularis alba. The anterior ground bundle appears to be continuous with the posterior longitudinal bundle. The latter forms longitudinal communications between the nuclei of the facial and the eye-muscle nerves, and thus resembles the anterior ground bundle in uniting together a series of motor nuclei. The mixed lateral zone also passes into the substantia reticularis alba, forming its middle portion. Gower's tract is regarded as a centripetal tract. It is probably formed by fibres from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, which cross in the posterior commissure, and then, after suffering an interruption in nerve-cells, ascend in the tract above mentioned. A portion of it appears to be lost in the cervical region of the cord. The rest passes to the nucleus lateralis of the medulla, and, after a partial or total interruption in the cells of that nucleus, passes on to form the external part of the tract of the fillet. The direct cerebellar tract, as already mentioned, commences at the level of the upper lumbar nerve-roots and augments as it ascends. It is formed of fibres chiefly uncrossed. These fibres are derived from the posterior roots which have suffered an interruption in the nerve-cells of Clarke's column. It ascends as a well-defined tract on the outer surface of the lateral pyramidal tract as far as the medulla; here it passes obliquely across the descending root of the fifth nerve and reaches the posterior surface of the medulla, where it joins the restiform body and thus passes to the superior vermis of the cerebellum. A certain number of the fibres, according to Monakow, do not join the restiform body but ascend in the tract of the fillet as far as the upper part of the valve of Vieussens, and then bend downwards and decussate in the substance of the valve and pass also to the superior vermis. The lateral ground bundle is a mixed tract. The motor fibres occupy the anterior and larger part, and are derived from the anterior horns. The sensory fibres, forming the posterior part of the tract, have probably the following deriva- tion. Some of the fibres of the posterior roots, after suffering an interruption in the cells of Clarke's column, enter the posterior columns and ascend for a very short distance in Burdach's column. They then pass obliquely through the grey matter of the posterior horn to form the sensory part of the lateral ground bundle. A few fibres may pass via the posterior commissure to the corresponding bundle on the opposite side. The bundle then ascends as far as the medulla, where its fibres, at a point immediately above the pyramidal decussation, cross over to the