TEE OBGANS OF RESPIRATION 958 THE OEGANS OF EESPIEATION THE LUNGS \ I The lungs—which are two in number—are the special organs of respiration, and 1 occupy the greater portion of the chest cavity. They are separated one from the I other by the heart and great vessels, and the other contents of the mediastinal i spaces. I THE PLEUE^ j I Each lung is closely invested by a delicate serous covering, which also dips into i and lines the fissures which separate their lobes—the visceral layer of the pleura, or pleura pulmonalis. The parietal layer, or pleura costalis, is reflected from the root of the lung I forwards, covering the side of the pericardium, to the chest-wall in front, and backwards to the sides of the vertebral column, whilst below it covers the vault of the diaphragm. The pleural cavity between the two layers just described does i not exist except as a result of disease or injury; air or fluid may then separate : them one from the other and fill the intervening space. Below the root of each lung a fold of the pleura descends to the diaphragm, the \ ligamentum latum pulmonis. The pleural sacs pass for an inch or more above the level of the first rib beneath the scalene muscles, covering the apices of the lungs, and the parietal layer is here strengthened by a dome of fascia which descends from beneath the muscles to the inner border of the first rib. The interval between the two sacs is considerable both above and below; but opposite the second piece of the sternum, corresponding with the second, third, and fourth rib cartilages (fig. 521), they are closely approximated or in actual contact. I The right pleural sac, though shorter and wider than the left, reaches as a rule : somewhat higher in the neck. The inner surface of the pleura, where the two i layers are in contact, is smooth and moist and glistening; the outer surface is closely adherent where it invests the lungs, the pulmonary vessels, and the diaphragm; but elsewhere it may be easily detached, and it is, moreover, much thicker, and presents a rough surface. ; The pleurae leave a narrow rim at the circumference of the diaphragm uncovered and in direct contact with the chest walls. The lungs are somewhat pyramidal in shape, with their bases below and their ; apices projecting upwards to the root of the neck. Each lung presents an outer and an inner surface, separated by an anterior and a posterior border, with a base and an apex. \ The outer surface is convex, and mainly corresponds to the concavity of the inner surface of the lateral wall of the thorax. , The inner surface is concave, and comes into contact with the pericardium and lateral pleural wall of the mediastinal spaces. The posterior border is the longer; it is thick, rounded, and smooth, and occupies the groove on the side of the vertebral column. The anterior border is thin, irregular, and sharply edged, and is deeply notched in the left lung, leaving the pericardium uncovered. The base is concave, and rests on the corresponding arch of the diaphragm; j