THE ABTEBIES 624 (1) The cutaneous branches—very h'regular in then- origin, number, and dis- tribution—arise either from the main trunk or from one of the inferior muscular branches, pass downwards between the tAvo heads of the gastrocnemius, and, per- forating the deep fascia, supply the skin and fascia of the calf. A branch, usually j of moderate size, accompanies the short or external saphenous vein, and is | sometimes called the posterior saphenous artery. j (2) The muscular or sural branches are commonly divided into the superior | and inferior. They arise from the upper and lower portions of the popliteal i respectively; the former supply the muscles forming the boundaries of the upper j half of the popliteal space ; the latter, the muscles of the calf. I {a) The upper muscular branches—or superior sural, as they are sometimes | called—are distributed to the hamstring muscles and lower part of the adductor i magnus. They anastomose with the superior articular arteries, and with the termination of the profunda, {h) The inferior muscular or sural branches, usually two in number and of large size, come off from the popliteal just as it passes under cover of the inner head of the gastrocnemius. They at first descend between the two heads of the latter muscle, one branch then entering the outer, and one the I inner head. They also supply branches to the soleus and plantaris muscles. ' (3) The articular, five in number, are divided into two superior (internal and j external), two inferior (internal and external), and the azygos, or'anterior. The | superior and inferior come off transversely in pairs from either side of the i popliteal, the superior above, the inferior below the joint, and, winding round the bones to the front of the knee, form—by anastomosing with each other and with ! the anastomotica magna, the termination of the profunda, the descending branch of j the external circumflex, and the anterior tibial recurrent—a superficial and deep j 1 arterial rete (fig. 376). The superficial anastomosis or retelies between the skin and i J fascia round about the patella (patellar rete), which it supplies, the larger branches i ( entering it from above. The deep anastomosis or rete lies on the surface of the ' bones around the articular surfaces of the femur and tibia, supplying branches to the contiguous bones and to the joints. The azygos articular is a single short trunk coming off from the deep surface of the popliteal artery. It at once passes through the posterior ligament into the joint. {a) The superior external articular, the larger of the two superior articular branches, runs transversely outwards under the external head of the gastrocnemius, j and, passing beneath the biceps and through the external intermuscular septum and i 4 vastus externus, enters the substance of the crureus, and anastomoses, above with I * the descending branch of the external circumflex, below with the inferior external | articular, and across the front of the femur with the superior internal articular, I the anastomotica magna, and termination of the profunda, forming with them, as \ already described, the deep periarticular rete. Branches are given off to the patella, to : the upper and outer part of the joint, to the bone, and to the contiguous muscles. ih) The superior internal articular (fig. 374) runs transversely inwards just above the inner head of the gastrocnemius, beneath the semi-membranosus, and, after perforating the tendon of the adductor magnus, enters the substance of the vastus internus, where it anastomoses (fig. 376) with the deep branch of the anastomotica magna and termination of the profunda above, with the inferior internal articular j below, and with the superior external articular across the front of the femur. It; I supplies small branches to the contiguous muscles, to the femur, to the patella,! I and to the joint. i (c) The inferior internal articular, the larger of the two inferior articular arteries, passes obliquely downwards and inwards across the popliteus, below the, internal tuberosity of the tibia, and beneath the internal lateral ligament to the front and inner side of the knee joint, where it anastomoses (fig. 376), above with | the superior internal articular and the superficial branch of the anastomotica magna, j