326 THE MUSCLES EXTENSOES OF THE FOEEAEM The extensor muscles are two in number—the triceps and the anconeus. | 1. TRICEPS The triceps extensor cubiti—named from its three heads and its action—formi a thick fusiform sheet wrapping round the posterior surface of the humerus in iti whole length. Origin.—The long head arises from the lower edge of the glenoid cavity anc the axillary border of the scapula for one inch below it. The external head arises (1) from the posterior surface of the humerus abovij the musculo-spiral groove, reaching as far up as the base of the greater tuberositv and the insertion of the teres minor ; (2) from the back of the external inter muscular septum above the point where it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve. The internal head arises (1) from the whole of the posterior surface of th humerus between the musculo-spiral groove and the olecranon fossa; (2) on th inner side, from the back of the whole of the internal intermuscular septum; (8 on the outer side, from the back of that portion of the external intermuscular septun which lies below the point where it is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve. Insertion.—(1) The posterior part of the upper surface of the olecranon process and (2) on either side by aponeuroses which are continuous with the deep fascia aj the back of the forearm. ! Structure.—The long head forms a strong fusiform muscular band, arising b tendinous fibres which blend Vv^ith the lower part of the capsule of the shoulde. joint. The surfaces of the band at first look inwards and outwards. The tendo:l of origin extends for some distance further on the inner than on the outer surfacf, As the muscular band passes downwards, it twists upon itself so that what was tb internal surface now becomes posterior, and the external surface becoming thj anterior is applied to the back of the rest of the muscle. Upon this anterki surface the common tendon of insertion begins as a broad aponeurosis about thre| inches from the scapula, and receives the fleshy fibres of the long head in penn:! form fashion chiefly upon its upper border and posterior surface. These fleshj fibres are continued as a thick band along the inner border of this common tendoij and terminate in a blunt point a little below the junction of the middle and low(j thirds of the arm. | The external head arises by fleshy fibres which are inserted in penniforil fashion into the outer border of the common aponeurosis. The lowest of these fibr( arise from a tendinous arch which bridges over the musculo-spiral nerve. The internal head, which is much stronger than the outer, forms a thici triangular sheet, wrapping round the back of the bone, and arising also from til back of the intermuscular septa on either side. The apex of this triangle extend upwards along the lower border of the musculo-spiral groove to a point juj below the insertion of the teres major. Its fleshy fibres pass downwards arj somewhat backwards to the broad aponeurosis, which, after receiving the flesl{ fibres from the outer and long heads, completely covers the whole of the posteriij surface of the muscle in the lower third of the arm. A few fleshy fibres of th] head are inserted directly into the bone, and the adjacent posterior ligament ; tlj latter slip is sometimes called the subanconeus. The insertion of the tendon into the back part of the upper surface of tl; olecranon is usually separated from the adjacent part of the olecranon ai