THE MUSCLES 362 Action.—Both heads will flex the metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb. The outer head will flex also the carpo-metacarpal joint, while the inner head will be an adductor as well as flexor of this joint. The former will act in association with the abductor and opponens, and will draw the thumb forwards and inwards, keeping it at some distance from the palm of the hand. The latter will act with the adductor, and draw it more directly inwards in close proximity to the palm ol the hand. Relations.—The outer head lies beneath the abductor pollicis, and in contact by its radial border with the opponens pollicis. The inner head is partly separated from it by the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis ; upon its ulnar border it is m contact with the adductor. In front of it lie the tendons of the flexor profundus with the outer lumbricales ; behind, are the third part of the radial artery and th( interossei muscles of the first two spaces. 4. ADDUCTOR POLLICIS The adductor pollicis, sometimes called the adductor pollicis transversus—. named from its action—is a thick triangular sheet. I Origin.—The front border of the shaft of the third metacarpal bone. Insertion.—(1) The inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb (2) the inner side of the aponeurosis of the extensor longus pollicis which cover: the first phalanx. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous or fleshy fibres, the muscle converge upon a short tendon, which blends on its outer side with the inner tendon of th^ flexor brevis pollicis, and sends a fibrous slip to the inner side of the aponeurosi' of the extensor longus pollicis. Nerve-supply.—From the lower cord of the brachial plexus (through the eight) cervical nerve), by the deep branch of the ulnar which sends filaments to th' upper border and deep surface near the origin. Action.— (1) To flex the first phalanx of the thumb ; (2) to adduct and fle the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb ; (3) to extend the second phalanx of thi thumb. This latter action of the adductor and abductor pollicis is useful in man of the movements of the thumb, in which it will be found that the second phalan has to be kept extended, while its palmar aspect is being opposed to the tips o the other digits. Relations.—Superficially, some of the tendons of the flexor profundus digitorui and the two outer lumbricales ; deeply, the abductor indicis and the interossei ( the space between the second and third metacarpal bones. Part of the lowc border is subcutaneous. Variations.—The adductor pollicis is often difficult to separate from the inner head o the flexor brevis poUicis, the adductor obliquus, as it is sometimes called.