900 ORGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE The ophthalmic artery has many anastomoses with branches of the external carotid. The contents of the orbit are also supplied in part by the infraorbital artery, a branch of the internal maxillary; in particular this artery supplies part of the inferior rectus and inferior oblique muscles in the cavity, and also gives a branch to the lower eyelid. Veins.—Branches, corresponding generally to those of the artery, unite to form the superior and inferior ophthalmic veins, which ultimately, either separately or united into one trunk, pass through the sphenoidal fissure and empty into the cavernous sinus. The inferior vein is connected with the pterygoid plexus by a branch which leaves the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure. Nerves of the orbit.—These are motor, sensory, and sympathetic, and all enter the orbit by the sphenoidal fissure, with the exception of one small sensory branch passing through the spheno-maxillary fissure. (The optic nerve has been already described, and is not included in this account.) A. The motor nerves are the third, fourth, and sixth cranial. Fig. 490.—Section through Contents of Eight Orbit, 1-2 mm. in front of THE Optic Foramen, viewed from behind. (After Lange.) ASAL, ^MAL muscle 1. The third nerve enters the orbit in two parts, an upper smaller, and a lower larger division. The u^pi^er division gives off two branches : one supphes the superior rectus, entering its lower surface far back; the other branch goes to the levator palpebrjB, entering its lower surface in its posterior third. The loiver division divides into three branches, of which one supplies the inferior rectus,^ entering its upper surface far back, and another supphes the internal rectus, entering its inner surface a little behind its middle. The third branch of the lower division gives (1) the short root to the cihary ganglion, and (2) one or more twigs to the inferior rectus, and the remainder of this branch then enters the lower surface of the inferior oblique muscle about its middle. 2. The fourth nerve supphes the superior obhque muscle, entering its upper surface about midway in its course. 3. The sixth nerve supphes the external rectus, entering its inner surface about the junction of the posterior and middle thirds of the muscle. As regards the manner of termination of these motor nerves, it is found that in all the ocular muscles the nerve on its entrance breaks up into numerous bundles of fibres, which form first coarse and then fine plexuses, the latter ulti- mately sending off fine twigs supplying the muscle throughout with nerve-endings. The posterior third of these muscles is, however, comparatively ill supphed with both kinds of plexus and with nerve-endings.