THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 710 The ventricular cavities of the brain and the central canal of the spinal cord are lined by a layer of ciliated epithelial cells, immediately outside which is a stratum of neuroglia, free from nerve-cells, which is called ependyma. The ependyma around the central canal of the cord is often termed substantia gelatinosa centralis. Neuroglia is the name given to the peculiar interstitial tissue of the brain and cord. It is continuous with processes of pia mater which dip in from the surface. Nerve-fibres are processes or outgrowths of the nerve-cells of the central nervous system, from which they pass to be distributed to every part of the body. They are classed by physiologists into efferent and afferent fibres. Efferent or centrifugal nerve-fibres convey impulses from the nerve-centres ; they comprise motor nerves to muscles, secreto-motor nerves to glands and vaso-motor nerves. Afferent or centripetal nerves convey impulses towards the nerve-centres; they comprise sensory nerves and other nerves conveying impulses, which under ordinary circumstances do not produce conscious sensations. Nerve-fibres run for the greater part of their course in compact bundles of various sizes, and these bundles are called nerves in the most general use of the term. Nerves are usually mixed (i.e. contain both efferent and afferent fibres). Most nerves are of a whitish colour owing to a medullary sheath which invests the essential parts (axis-cylinders) of the individual fibres. Others (chiefly visceral nerves) are of a pearly-grey colour owing to the absence of the medullary sheath in the majority of the fibres which make up the nerve. The fibres of sensory nerves are outgrowths from nerve-cells contained in ganglia, such as the Gasserian ganglion and the ganglia on the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. These ganglia, although appearing to belong to the peripheral nervous system in the adult, were (in early embryonic life) in continuity with the general epiblast of the neural canal. Certain terms which are in frequent use, such as coronal, sagittal, and hori- zontal, may be defined here. A coronal section is a vertical section passing through or parallel to the coronal suture, in other words, a transverse vertical section. A sagittal section is a vertical section taken at right angles to a coronal section—an antero-posterior vertical section. A horizontal section is a section taken at right angles to the perpendicular axis of the body. Structures which lie in the planes of these sections are sometimes spoken of as coronally placed, sagittally directed, etc. THE MENINGES The brain and spinal cord are invested by three membranes, termed the meninges, which afford protection and support to the delicate nervous structures, and also furnish a convenient medium in which the blood-vessels can ramify. The outer of these is thick and tough, and is termed the dura mater. The intermediate and inner membranes (arachnoid and pia mater) are thin and delicate. These mem- branes present differences in the regions of the brain and spinal cord respectively. The membranes of the brain will be first considered, and the differences met with in relation to the spinal cord will be dealt with in the description of that region. Dissection.—The first step in the examination of the meninges is the removal of the brain. The calvaria should be removed as follows :—The bone having been laid bare, a string should be tied round the skull passing from about an inch and a quarter above the external occipital protuberance behind, to an inch above the orbital arches in front. The outer table of the skull should then be sawn through and the inner table afterwards cracked with the mallet and chisel. A slight wrench will now disengage the calvaria. After noticing the Pacchionian bodies and the meningeal arteries, the student will do well to