66 THE SKELETON palate bone. In the same way the posterior ethmoidal cells extend into the inner sm-face of the orbital process, where they articulate with the lateral mass. The anterior surface is a continuation of the outer aspect of the vertical plate, and rests upon the maxilla. Of the two non-articular surfaces, the one directed upwards and outwards is slightly concave, and forms part of the floor of the orbit at its junction with the inner wall. The outer smooth surface looks directly into the zygomatic fossa, and extends into the spheno-maxillary fossa, and forms the anterior boundary of the spheno-palatine foramen. These surfaces are often conveniently named according to the bones with which they articu- late, or the fosste which they help to form : thus, the anterior or maxillary ; internal or ethmoidal; posterior or sphenoidal; superior or orbital; external or zygomatic. Between the orbital and sphenoidal processes is the spheno-palatine notch, which i is converted by the sphenoid turbinal bone into a complete foramen. Occasionally j it is complete in the palate bone. It transmits the spheno-palatine nerve and | artery ; the foramen opens into the back part of the nasal fossa, close to its roof, j When the spheno-palatine foramen is complete in the palate bone, it is often due to ankylosis between the palate and the sphenoidal turbinal; the latter, being | extremely fragile, easily breaks during the process of disarticulation. \ Articulations.—The palate bone articulates with its fellow the sphenoid, maxilla, vomer, sphenoidal turbinal, inferior turbinal, and ethmoid bones. As the surfaces and lines of union of the orbital and sphenoidal processes are somewhat intricate, the student should, w^hen studying this bone, refer to the following figures. The orbital and zygomatic surfaces are shown in fig. 84. The relation of the sphenoidal process to the nasal fossa in fig. 64. The relations of the pterygoid processes to the tuberosity of the palate are shown in fig. 85. With the help of these drawings the student will be able to understand the position of this bone, which assists in forming the boundary of the following cavities : viz. the nasal, orbital, spheno-maxillary, antral, and the ethmoidal cells. The muscles attached to it are :— Internal pterygoid. Tensor palati. Azygos uvulae. Superior constrictor of pharynx. Blood-supply.—Its arteries are derived from the descending palatine, the spheno-palatine, and pterygo-palatine. Ossification.—The palate bone arises from one nucleus, which is deposited in membrane, and appears about the eighth week of embryonic life. The spot where the earthy matter is first seen ultimately becomes the angle where the vertical and horizontal plates join. At birth the two plates are nearly equal, but as the nasal sinuses increase in height the vertical plate is lengthened, until it becomes twice the length of the horizontal plate. THE MALAE The malar bone, somewhat quadrilateral in shape, is situated at the outer and upper side of the face, and forms the prominence known as the cheek. Each bone has a convex external surface, presenting near the centre one or two minute orifices for the transmission of the malar nerves and arteries. This surface is largely covered by the orbicularis ;[)ali)ehrcirum, and gives origin to the zygomatici major and minor. The internal surface is concave, and abruptly excluded from the orbit by a prominent ledge of bone, the orbital process, which forms the anterior boundary of