952 THE OBGANS OF VOICE surfaces ; but it is comparatively smooth externally, where the outer surfaces of the rings are flattened. The first cartilage is broad, and is occasionally united with the cricoid above, or second ring of the trachea below. The last cartilage is likewise broad and strong, and sends a curved beak down- wards and backwards at the point of bifurcation of the trachea. It forms an imperfect ring on each side above the commencement of the corresponding bronchus. Two cartilages not uncommonly unite in part, and thus present a bifurcated appearance. The fibres of the trachealis are unstriped, and form a transverse layer at the posterior flattened part of the tube, with an indistinct layer of longitudinal fibres superimposed. The yellow elastic fibres, which exist throughout the entire mucous membrane, form a definite and deep layer at the posterior flattened portion of the tube. They are gathered into strong longitudinal flattened bands, especially well seen at thei lower part of the trachea, and where the fibres separate to pass into the bronchi. The mucous membrane is smooth and pinkish in colour; it is provided with numerous glands, especially at its hinder part, and is lined by a columnar ciliated' epithelium. The arteries are derived from the inferior thyroid. The veins join the thyroid plexuses ; and the nerves are supplied by branches from the pneumogastric, the recurrent laryngeal, and sympathetic. THE BEONCHI The right bronchus (fig. 536) is about one inch in length. It is shorter and wider than the left, and in direction more horizontal in its passage to the root of the lung. Relations.—The vena azygos major arches above it from behind to end in the superior vena cava, which latter is placed anteriorly. The right pulmonary artery is at first below, and then in front of it. The left bronchus is about two inches in length ; it is more oblique, longer, and narrower than the right. Relations.—It lies beneath the arch of the aorta, and rests upon the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and finally the descending aorta. The left pulmonary artery lies above and then in front of it. On looking down the trachea the dividing ridge between the two bronchial orifices is seen to be on the left of the middle line, more of the right orifice for this reason being visible. This explains the fact that foreign bodies entering the trachea most commonly become lodged in the right bronchus. At the root of the lung the right bronchus distributes a branch to the upper lobe of the lung which reaches above the level of the pulmonary artery. The remaining stem passes behind the pulmonary artery, and divides into two branches for the middle and lower lobes respectively. These, after several subdivisions, becomes bronchioles. The left bronchus lies below the pulmonary artery, and divides into two branches—one for each of its lobes—these corresponding with those which supply the middle and lower lobes of the right lung. THE THYEOID BODY OR GLAND The thyroid body is of a reddish colour, and is classed amongst the -ductless glands. It consists of two lateral lobes, and a connecting isthmus which unites them below.