321 TEBES MAJOB—COBACO-BBACHIALIS ipwards, as in climbing. Its influence, however, will be exerted upon the lower angle ,f the scapula, while that of the latissimus dorsi is chiefly upon the trunk and pelvis. Relations.—In front lie the latissimus dorsi, both heads of the biceps, the loraco-brachialis, the pectoralis major, the axillary vessels, and the lower branches If the brachial plexus ; behind, the latissimus dorsi, teres minor, infra-spinatus, jhe long and outer heads of the triceps; between its upper border and the sub- capularis muscle are the posterior circumflex and dorsalis scapulas vessels, and he circumflex nerve ; below are the superior profunda vessels and musculo-spiral lerve. ' 7. CORACO-BKACHIALIS The coraco-brachialis—named from its attachment to the coracoid process and he upper arm ihracliium)—is a cylindrical muscle, but somewhat fusiform at he extremities. Origin.—(1) The tip of the coracoid process; (2) the inner side of the tendon )f the short head of the biceps. Insertion.—(1) The rough impression two or three inches long upon the inner )order of the humerus in its middle third, and in front of the internal intermuscular I septum (see page 322) ; (2) the internal intermuscular septum and an aponeurotic □and which extends upwards from the septum in front of the tendons of the teres najor and the latissimus dorsi to the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Structure.—It arises from the coracoid process by a short tendon, which is jlended upon its inner side with the insertion of the pectoralis minor, and from he short head of the biceps by fleshy fibres for three or four inches below the 'oracoid process. From this origin the fibres run parallel to one another, and are nserted by a short tendon. The muscle is frequently divided into two planes between vhich the external cutaneous nerve passes. Nerve-supply.—From the outer cord of the brachial plexus (through the leventh cervical nerve) by the external cutaneous branch, which either pierces it ibout the middle upon its way to the biceps and brachialis anticus, or sends a )ranch to it in this position, while the rest of the nerve passes in front of the nuscle. Action.—To adduct and flex the humerus. As it lies at so small an angle with he axis of that bone, it assists materially in pressing the head of the humerus igainst the glenoid cavity, and so helps to prevent dislocation. Relations.—Superficially, the deltoid and pectoralis major; deeply, the sub- pcapularis, latissimus dorsi, teres major and triceps. Upon its outer side lies the [short head of the biceps; upon its inner side the pectoralis minor, the axillary and brachial vessels, with the median nerve and other branches of the brachial plexus. Variations.—The coraco-brachialis varies chiefly in its insertion, which may extend as jiiigh as the capsule of the shoulder or the lesser tuberosity, occasionally forming in this |)osition a separate muscle (the rotator humeri) ; or it may descend as low as the inner •ondyle. It sometimes sends a slip to the triceps or brachialis anticus. jjEOUP OF MUSCLES WHICH MOVE THE ELBOW JOINT Fascia of the Uppek Aem The deep fascia of the upper arm forms a strong tube, thicker upon the posterior j jlian the anterior aspect, enclosing all the muscles and most of the vessels and nerves. Above, it is continuous on the outer side and front with the fascia covering the ieltoid and pectoralis major, and internally with the axillary fascia. In the lower Avo-thirds of the upper arm it is joined upon its deep aspect by two strong I , Y