1250 SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY middle of tlie umbilical region, and if the longitudinal plane corresponding to the outer border of the rectus be adopted, the inguinal canal will be left intact in the 'inguinal' region. This lower plane, if carried horizontally backwards from the symphysis into the pelvis, cuts the small intestine, the caecum or lower part of the ascending colon, the sigmoid flexure, the upper end of the rectum, the fundus uteri, the ovaries and Fallopian tubes, and the distended bladder. For the longitudinal plane on each side, that corresponding to the vertical line of Quain, running upwards parallel to the mesial line from the middle of Poupart's ligament, is already familiar to the greater number of observers; but it has the disadvantage of making the mesial regions very large in proportion to the lateral regions, the upper lateral regions being still further reduced in women owing to the narrowness of the chest when compared with the width of the pelvis. As an alternative, the outer border of the rectus would be preferable, as it is easily localised by the lateral infracostal furrow above, and by the pubic spine below ; and while reducing the width of the middle zone without interfering materially with existing indications of contents, it leaves an inguinal region that includes the whole of the inguinal canal. Each plane cuts the kidney, transverse colon, and small intestine; the right plane cuts also the gall bladder, and sometimes the caBCum ; the left cuts the sigmoid flexure, the stomach (great cul-de-sac), the pan- creas, and the spleen. The table on the preceding page will show the contents of the regions adjusted according to this scheme. Note. Ligamentum nuchce :—This structure has been referred to on page 206. As seen in the horse, elephant, ox, and other quadrupeds, it is a great and important elastic ligament. In man it is but a slender band of elastic and white fibres extending from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra, where it is continuous with the supraspinous ligament, to the external occipital protuberance and occipital crest. The Trapezii muscles take origin from it. A thin tendinous layer connects its deep surface with the tips of the spinous processes, of the cervical vertebrae, thus forming a septum between the muscles of the neck.