794 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM approaches the sphenoidal fissure it bends upwards, crosses on the outer side of the third nerve, and passes through the innermost part of the sphenoidal fissure. As it passes through the fissure it is placed above and internal to the frontal nerve. It then passes inwards above the origin of the levator palpebrfe superioris muscle, and pierces the orbital surface of the superior obhque muscle, in which it ends. The fourth nerve is the smallest of the cranial nerves. It is remarkable for the length of its intracranial course and for its mode of decussation. FIFTH OE TKIGEMINAL NERVE j The fifth or trigeminal nerve consists of two parts, a large sensory root (portio major) and a small motor root (portio minor). The portio major passes into a ganglion (Gasserian ganglion) which has been compared to the ganghon on the posterior root of a spinal nerve, which it probably resembles in exercising a trophic infiuence on the nerve fibres, though this has not been experimentally proved. The ' superficial origin ' of the nerve is from the side of the pons near its upper border. The deep origin of the portio major is chiefiy by the ascending root, a long tract of fibres which runs for a considerable distance within the cerebro-spinal i axis. The portio major has, however, in addition to this, several supplementary | origins. The portio minor arises principally from a nucleus which is embedded in the grey matter of the fioor of the fourth ventricle, but it also receives the ■ whole or the greater part of a long tract of fibres, which passes downwards from the mesencephalon, and which is termed the descending root. The ascending root commences in the upper part of the spinal cord at the level | of the second cervical nerve, and passes upwards, increasing in size as it ascends, i It is placed on the outer side of the substantia gelatinosa, in w^hich some of its fibres appear to take origin. In transverse sections through the lower part of the medulla it appears as a crescentic white bundle of fibres, convex outwards, placed i on the outer side of the substantia gelatinosa, and covered only by some white j matter belonging to the direct cerebellar tract (fig. 432). Higher up it is more deeply placed, being covered by the restiform body and by the roots of the i auditory nerve. In the grey matter of the upper third of the fourth ventricle it comes in contact with a cluster of nerve cells which is termed the accessory sensory nucleus; here it takes a bend downwards and forwards, partly intersecting the i accessory nucleus, receives accessions of fibres from that nucleus, and, according to most observers, also from the cerebellum and from the substantia ferruginea of the opposite side. It now passes downwards and forwards somewhat obhquely through the pons, and emerges (superficial origin) as the portio major of the fifth nerve at the side of the pons near the superior border. The accessory nucleus is a ; mass of cells of an elongated ovoid form embedded in the grey matter of the floor of the fourth ventricle at a level a little above the striae acusticse. The cerebellar root passes downwards and forwards from the cerebellum around the outer side of the superior cerebellar peduncle of its own side, and joins the outermost portion of the sensory root. The descending root arises from a column of nerve-cells which is embedded in the grey matter of the aqueduct above and external to the nucleus of the third nerve. The root commences at the level of the upper part of the nates, and increases in size as it descends, forming a white bundle of fibres crescentic in section, some of these fibres being connected with the nerve-cells which are placed on their inner side (fig. 444, v). It passes through the grey matter of the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, close to the outer side of the substantia ferru- ; ginea, and reaches the upper part of the motor nucleus of the fifth nerve. Here it is joined by the principal part of the motor root, which arises from the motor