THE ABTEBIES 576 the radial artery beneath the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and, crossing the second metacarpal bone, passes downwards on the second dorsal interosseous muscle between the extensor tendons to the level of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, where it divides into two small branches, like the other dorsal interosseous arteries, for the supply of the sides of the contiguous fingers on their dorsal aspect. At the base of the second interosseous space it communicates with the posterior perforating branch of the deep arch, which here runs forwards between the heads of the second dorsal interosseous muscle, and at the fore part of the space it anastomoses through the anterior perforating branch with the fourth digital artery. The dorsal digital arteries, the terminations of the metacarpal artery and dorsal interosseous arteries, extend along the sides of the fingers as far as the first inter- phalangeal joint, where they anastomose with the dorsal branches of the collateral digital arteries. (3) The dorsalis pollicis arises from the radial just before it sinks between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. It runs downwards on the ulnar side of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis, along the metacarpal bone, and divides into two branches for the supply of the radial and ulnar side of the thumb on its dorsal aspect. These branches sometimes come off separately from the radial artery. (4) The dorsalis indicis arises from the radial just as that artery sinks between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, usually below the origin of the dorsalis pollicis, but sometimes as a common trunk with the latter vessel. It runs downwards along the radial side of the metacarpal bone of the index finger, and can be traced along the radial side of that finger as far as the first inter- phalangeal joint, where it anastomoses with the dorsal branch of the radialis indicis. III. The Radial Aktery in the Palm (the Deep Palmar Aech) The radial artery enters the palm between the first and second metacarpal bones at the base of the first interosseous space, by passing between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle. It then runs inwards between the adductor pollicis i and inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and continuing its course, in a slight curve j with the convexity forwards, across the base of the metacarpal bones and interos- i seous muscles, it anastomoses with the deep branch of the ulnar, forming the deep , palmar arch. The arch thus formed may be said to extend from the first inter- osseous space to the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, and is a finger's ; breadth nearer the wrist than the superficial arch. It is covered by the superficial and deep flexor tendons, by the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis, and by part of ■ the flexor brevis minimi digiti. It is accompanied by the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, and two small venae comites. Variations in the Deep Palmar Arch (A) The deep palmar arch may be larger than usual, and its interosseous branches * supply the place of one or more of the digital arteries by dividing at the cleft of the fingers into collateral digital branches. (B) It may be reinforced by enlarged posterior perforating j branches from the radial and its branches on the back of the hand, or by a large anterior j interosseous. (C) The radial may join the deep arch by passing through the second instead of the first interosseous space. (D) The princeps pollicis and radialis indicis may come off from the superficial arch or from the superficial volar, or from a separate branch of the radial which passes through the first interosseous space. The branches of the deep palmar arch are :—(1) The princeps polhcis ; (2) the I radialis indicis ; (3) the palmar interosseous (three in number); (4) the recurrent carpal; (5) the posterior perforating. The first two are usually spoken of as