962 THE OBGANS OF CIBCULATION j The parenchyma, or lung substance, is composed of minute lobules connected | by interlobular areolar tissue. Each lobule is made up of a ramification of a bron- | chial tube with its cluster of terminal air cells, with a minute plexus of pulmonary i and bronchial vessels, nerves, and lymphatics. I The vessels.—The pulmonary arteries convey venous blood from the heart to the lungs ; they divide into branches which follow the bronchial tubes, and finally termi- i nate in a flat mesh work upon the walls of the intercellular passages and air cells. | The radicles of the pulmonary veins start from this network, and, coalescing I into larger branches which accompany the arteries, return the arterial blood to the | left auricle of the heart. I The bronchial arteries are the nutrient vessels of the lung. They commonly | arise by a single or by separate trunks from the thoracic aorta. Some branches ramify in an open plexus outside the lung beneath the pleura ; another set supply j the interlobular areolar tissue; whilst a third set of branches supply the bronchial i tubes with their lining membrane and muscular walls, the walls of the vessels, and i the bronchial glands. The ramifications of this set reach and mingle with the I pulmonary vessels, and thus a small quantity of the blood conveyed by the bronchial i arteries is returned as arterial through the pulmonary veins to the heart. i The bronchial veins consist of a superficial and a deep set, which join, to empty on the right side into the vena azygos major, and on the left into the superior i intercostal. j The lymphatics form a superficial and a deep set. j The nerves are derived from the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses. \ I THE ORGANS OF CIECULATION THE PEEICAKDIUM \ j The pericardium is a cone-shaped, fibro-serous sac surrounding the heart, with! its apex above, and its base below and adherent to the diaphragm. The fibrous layer is very strong and inelastic, and is composed of interlacing fibres. Below, j its connection with the central tendon of the diaphragm is close and intimate. It i is very firmly bound to the caval opening, but loosely attached and easily separable i elsewhere. Above, it is lost on the sheaths of the great vessels, all of which receive , distinct investments, with the single exception of the inferior vena cava, which | pierces it from below. The aorta, superior vena cava, both divisions of the pulmonary artery, with | the ductus arteriosus, together with the four pulmonary veins, are all ensheathed | in this manner. The fibrous portion of the pericardium through the sheaths, \ prolonged over the great vessels, ultimately becomes continuous above with the ; deep cervical fascia. Two slight bands of fibrous tissue—the sterno-pericardial \ bands or ligaments—connect the front of the pericardium, above and below, with the posterior surface of the sternum. 1 The serous layer is smooth and glistening. It lines the fibrous bag to form j its parietal portion, and is reflected over the surface of the heart at the roots of | the great vessels to form its visceral portion, the two layers being in close contact, | and moistened with a thin secretion to allow the free movement of the heart. A i series of pouches or sinuses are thus formed at the line of reflexion. Between the j inferior vena cava and lower left pulmonary vein, the oblique sinus ascends j behind the left auricle, partially investing the pulmonary arteries and the pulmonary j 1 li