88 THE SKELETON The upper part of the suture is formed by the frontal bone ; below are the malar, greater and lesser wing of the sphenoid, os planum, lachrymal, maxillary, and nasal bones. A portion of this complex suture, lying between the sphenoid and frontal bones, appears in the anterior cranial fossa. Other and less important fissures are the internasal, naso-maxillary, inter- maxillary, and malo-maxillary. The small sutures visible in the orbit have been already mentioned in describing that cavity. Fig. 93.—The Posterior Nares. VIDIAN CANAL PTERYGO-PALATINE CANALS SPINE OF PALATE OR POSTERIOR NASAL SPINE The following points are seen in an anterior view of the cranium :— The glabella, a smooth space between the converging superciliary ridges. The ophryon is the most anterior point of the metopic suture. The nasion is the central point of the transverse suture. The subnasal point is the middle of the inferior border of the anterior nasal aperture at the base of the nasal spine. The alveolar point is the centre of the anterior margin of the upper alveolar arch. THE INTEEIOE OF THE SKULL In order to study the interior of the skull it is necessary to make sections in three directions,—sagittal, coronal, and horizontal. This enables the student to examine the various points with facihty, and displays the great proportion the brain cavity bears to the rest of the skull. The sagittal section should be made slightly to one side of the median line in order to preserve the nasal septum. The black line (fig. 94) drawn from the basion (anterior margin of the foramen magnum) to the gonion (the anterior extremity of the sphenoid) represents the basi-cranial axis; whilst the line drawn from the gonion to the subnasal point lies in the basi-facial axis. These two axes form an angle termed the cranio-facial, which is useful in making comparative measurements of crania. A line prolonged vertically upwards from the basion will strike the bregma. This is the basi- bregmatic axis, and gives the greatest height of the cranial cavity. A line drawn from the ophryon to the occipital point indicates the greatest length of the cranium. Near its middle, the cranial cavity is encroached upon by the petrosal; the