PEGTOBALIS MAJOB- 311 SUBCLAVIUS hovering the external and internal intercostal muscles, the coracoid process, and iosto-coracoid membrane, with the structures which pass through the membrane, az. the cephalic vein, acromio-thoracic vessels, and the external anterior thoracic lerve. Further outwards it forms part of the anterior wall of the axilla, and enters nto relation with the axillary vessels and nerves. The upper border is separated from the deltoid by the cephalic vein and the 'lumeral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery. Variations.—The clavicular and sterno-costal portions are often widely separated, rhey may also be further subdivided into separate bands or sheets, and they may be ,,vholly or partly absent. Occasionally, the muscles of the two sides join across the hternum, or muscular bands may join the sternal ends of the clavicle. Bands may cross Tom the axillary border to the latissimus dorsi or the deep fascia of the upper arm ; ieeper bands may also pass to the insertion of the pectoralis minor, or the capsule of the Lhoulder joint. I Second Layer 1. SUBCLAVIUS I The subelavius—named from its position beneath the clavicle (=clavis)—is iilmost cylindrical, but may be more accurately described as a thick sheet of the l^hape of a low obtuse-angled triangle, the obtuse angle being contained between the clavicular attachment and the inner free border of the muscle. Fig. 265.—The Subclavius and the Upper Portion of the Serratus Magnus. Subelavius Serratus magnus Origin.—The upper and anterior surface of the first rib and its cartilage at their pomt of junction. Insertion.—The groove on the lower surface of the clavicle from the rhomboid impression to the conoid tubercle. Structure.—It arises by a strong tendon, flattened from before backwards, which lies close to the front of the rhomboid ligament, and is continued for a con- siderable distance along the lower border of the muscle. Its insertion is by fleshy ! fibres which radiate upwards, outwards, and a little backwards, in a penniform manner, from this tendon ; the inner ascending more vertically, and the outer very obliquely. 1 Nerve-supply.—From the brachial plexus by a small branch which, arising !Erom the fifth and sixth cervical nerves, passes behind the clavicle and enters the Imiddle of the back of the muscle. j Action.—To draw the outer end of the clavicle, and with it the point of the [shoulder, downwards and slightly forwards ; but chiefly by pulling the bone inwards k