984 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION which penetrates the gland to join the facial. One or two lympathic glands, commonly lie imbedded within the parotid. The duct of the parotid (Stenson's) crosses the masseter a finger's breadth below the zygoma. It penetrates the fat of the cheek and the fibres of the buccinator muscle, between which and the mucous membrane it runs for a short distance before it terminates, on the summit of a little paj^illa, by a minute orifice. This opening is placed opposite the crown of the second upper molar tooth. The duct commences by numerous branches, which converge towards the anterior border of' the gland, and receives in its passage across the masseter the duct of the socia j parotidis. Its canal is about the size of a crow^-quill. Its mucous membrane is \ lined by a columnar epithelium. The coat of the duct is thick and tough, and consists of fibrous tissue intermixed with contractile fibres. The arteries have been already described lying within the gland substance. The veins have a similar distribution to the arteries. The nerves are derived from the facial, great auricular, the carotid plexus of the sympathetic, and the auriculo-temporal. The latter also conveys a branch derived from the giosso-pharyngeal through the lesser petrosal and otic ganglion. The lymphatics terminate in the superficial and deep cervical glands. The parotid gland has been observed to retain its primitive condition, lying over the mandible and masseter muscle. Its lobes are absent in early childhood. The SUBMAXILLARY GLAND weighs about two drachms, and occupies the fore part of the submaxillary triangle. It is covered by the skin, platysma, facial vein, the inframandibular branches of the facial nerve, and the deep fascia; and it extends upwards to occupy the submaxillary fossa, beneath the body of the mandible. The anterior belly of the digastric lies in front; behind, the stylo-mandibular ligament separates it from the parotid. The facial artery lies in a deep groove which occupies its hinder and upper portion. Its deep surface is in relation with the mylo-hyoid in front, and the hyo-glossus behind, with a few fibres of the stylo-glossus muscle superiorly, and in addition the mylo-hyoid artery and nerve. The mylo-hyoid muscle separates the submaxillary from the sublingual gland, and around the posterior free border of this muscle a deep process of the gland turns forwards on the hyo-glossus. Several lymphatic glands are found on the surface or imbedded within the glandular substance. '' , The duct of the submaxillary gland (Wharton's) passes forwards and inwards from the deep lobe just described, to open by a small orifice on the summit of a papilla by the side of the frsenum of the tongue. In this course it passes above the lingual nerve. It lies at first between the mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus; next, between the mylo-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossus ; and lastly, under cover of the mucous membrane of the mouth, between the genio-hyo-glossus and the sublingual gland. The duct is about two inches (5 cm.) in length, and has comparatively thin coats. It is lined by columnar epithelium. The arteries to the gland are derived from the facial and lingual, with corre- sponding veins. The nerves proceed from the submandibular ganglion, from the mylo-hyoid of the mandibular nerve, and from branches of the sympathetic. The SUBLINGUAL GLAND—the smallest of the salivary glands—is about one -drachm in weight. It lies beneath the fore part of the tongue and mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, close to the frgenum, deeply resting upon the mylo-hyoid muscle. It is limited externally by the sublingual fossa of the mandible, and internally by the genio-hyo-glossus and Wharton's duct; in front it touches its fellow, and behind, it approaches the deep lobe of the submaxillary gland. The duct from the main portion of the gland—the duct of Rivini—runs along- side the submaxillary duct, to open with it on the same papilla. The fore part of the gland consists of a cluster of little lobules, each with its own separate duct.