FACIAL NEBVE 807 and the auditory nerve (superficial origin). From thence the'nerve passes, in the form of a small compact bundle, and enters the internal auditory meatus. In this situation it lies on the upper surface of the auditory nerve, while the facial is j placed above it. It joins the facial nerve at the commencement of the geniculate gangUon. This nerve is regarded as an aberrant fasciculus of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and additional support is given to this view by the fact that it also receives fibres from the j- funiculus solitarius (Testnt). The chorda tympani is usually regarded as the continuation ' of this nerve, and thus the anterior part of the tongue receives fibres from the glosso- pharyngeal through the chorda tympani, while the posterior part of the organ is supplied j directly. (See Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve.) i At its superficial origin the facial nerve is placed immediately internal to the I auditory nerve, the pars intermedia of Wrisberg intervening between them. As the facial nerve enters the internal auditory meatus, it is placed above the auditory nerve. It then parts company with the auditory nerve by entering the aqueduct of Fallopius. While traversing the aqueduct, it necessarily follows the windings of that canal. It passes at first outwards and forwards through the bone above Fig. 448.—Diagrammatic Lateral View of the Origin of the Facial Nerve. (Krause.) SUPERIOR OLIVE ASCENDING CRUS NUCLEUS OF ABDUCENS CRUS OF ORIGIN NUCLEUS OF FACIAL MEDULLA and between the cochlea and the vestibule. It then makes a sharp bend, and runs backwards and slightly downwards, being separated from the tympanum in this part of its course only by a very thin scale of bone and by the mucous membrane lining the cavity. Lastly, it runs directly downwards, and emerges at the stylo- mastoid foramen. The portion of the nerve corresponding to the first bend is considerably thickened, and contains some nerve-cells ; it is called the geniculate ganglion. The ganglionic substance forms a little conical cap on the bend of the nerve, the apex of the cone being directed towards the hiatus Fallopii. After its emergence from the stylo-mastoid foramen, the facial nerve runs downwards and forwards within the substance of the parotid gland, and terminates by dividing into two divisions—an upper or temporo-facial, and a lower or cervico- facial. The branches of the facial nerve may be classified into three sets:—(1) Branches given off within the aqueduct of Fallopius ; (2) branches from the extracranial portion of the nerve before its terminal division ; (3) branches of the temporo-facial and cervico-facial divisions. (1) Six branches are given off within the aqueduct: viz. three from the genicu- late ganglion, the great, the lesser, and the external superficial petrosal nerves ; and three from the facial nerve in the descending part of its course—viz. the nerve to the stapedius, the chorda tympani, and a communicating twig to the pneumo- gastric.