INTERNAL MAXILLABY o27 transverse facial. It gives off the following small branches :—(a) Orbital, to the fat of the orbit and to the inferior rectus and inferior oblique muscles; {b) an I anterior dental branch, which passes downwards through a groove in the anterior wall of the superior maxilla, and supplies branches to the incisor and canine teeth and the mucous membrane of the antrum ; and (c) nasal branches, which pass through the foramina in the nasal process of the superior maxilla (sutura notha). i (3) The posterior or descending palatine branch descends in the posterior palatine canal with the posterior palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. On emerging on the palate at the posterior palatine foramen, it divides into the following branches :—(a) An anterior branch, which courses forwards in the muco-periosteum at the junction of the hard palate with the alveolar process as far as the anterior palatine foramen, where it anastomoses with the naso-palatine artery; and {b) posterior branches, which pass backwards and downwards into the soft palate, 1 contributing to the supply of that structure, and anastomosing with the ascending palatine artery. After the operation for cleft palate, serious hasmorrhage occasion- ally occurs from the descending palatine artery. It maybe stopped by compressing ithe artery by means of a plug inserted in the posterior palatine foramen. The foramen is situated a little behind, and internal to, the last molar tooth, and almost immediately in front of the hamular process. (4) The Vidian artery is a long slender branch which passes backwards through the Vidian canal in company with the Vidian nerve into the cartilage of the middle lacerated foramen. It gives off the following branches:—(a) Pharyngeal, Iwhich contributes to the supply of the roof of the pharynx, and anastomoses with Ithe ascending pharyngeal and pterygo-palatine arteries; (b) Eustachian, which is Idistributed to the Eustachian tube ; and (c) tympanic, which enters the tympanum, and anastomoses with the other tympanic arteries. (5) The pterygo-palatine artery, or pterygo-pharyngeal as it is sometimes called, a still more slender branch than the Vidian, passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine foramen with the pharyngeal nerve, a branch of Meckel's ganglion. It divides into three branches: {a) Pharyngeal, to the roof of the pharynx ; (b) Eustachian, to the Eustachian tube ; and (c) sphenoidal, to the sphenoidal cells. iThe pterygo-palatine sometimes arises from the spheno-palatine. (6) The spheno-palatine or naso-palatine artery, the terminal branch of the internal maxillary, passes with the spheno-palatine branch of Meckel's ganglion from the spheno-maxillary fossa into the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen. Crossing the roof of the nose in the muco-periosteum, it passes on to the septum, and then runs forwards and downwards in a groove on the vomer (under the name of the naso-palatine, or artery of the septum) towards the anterior palatine foramen, where it anastomoses with the anterior palatine artery, which enters the nose through the lateral compartment of that foramen (the canal of Stenson). In this course it gives off the following branches :—{a)A pharyngeal branch (or descend- ing pharyngeal branch, as it is sometimes called), which is distributed to the roof land contiguous portions of the pharynx, (b) A sphenoidal branch, which supphes |the sphenoidal cells, (c) Nasal branches, which ramify over the turbinal bones and lateral walls of the nose, and give twigs to the ethmoidal and frontal sinuses land lining membrane of the antrum, (cl) Ascending septal branches, which run iupwards and forwards, giving small twigs to the mucous membrane covering the 'upper part of the septum, and which pass through the cribriform plate of the iethmoid, and anastomose with the ethmoidal arteries (perforating or meningeal [branches). I I