110 THE SKELETON Blood-supply.—This is derived mainly from the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery. The second rib, like the first, is strongly curved ; its posterior angle is faintly marked ; and the shaft, like that of the first, can lie flat on the table. It has a prominent anterior angle for the serratus magnus. It gives attachment to the following muscles :— Internal intercostals (first and second). Serratus magnus. External intercostals (first and second). Serratus posticus superior. Levator costse. Scalenus posticus. Pectoralis major (costal cartilage). Musculus accessorius. Blood-supply.—Superior intercostal branch of the subclavian artery, and the first aortic intercostal. The tenth rib has usually a single facet on its head. Occasionally a second is present. When this is the case, the ninth thoracic vertebra is not exceptional, and p resents two demi-f acets. The eleventh rib has a single facet on the head. The angle is feebly marked, and the subcostal groove shallow. It lacks a neck and tubercle. The twelfth rib has a large head furnished with one facet. The shaft is narrow, and its length extremely variable. It may be as short as 3 cm., or attain a length of 20 cm. (8''). The twelfth rib gives attachment to the following muscles :— The costal cartilages are bars of hyaline cartilage attached to the anterior extremities of the ribs ; they represent unossified epiphyses. Like the shaft of a rib, each has an outer and inner surface ; the outer surfaces give origin and insertion to large muscles ; and the inner surfaces, from the second to the seventh inclusive, are in relation with the triangularis sterni. The upper and lower borders serve for the attachment of the internal intercostal muscles. The upper seven cartilages, and occasionally the eighth, are connected with the sternum. The first fuses with the manubrium; the remaining six are received in small articular concavities, and retained by means of ligaments. The cartilages of the vertebro- chondral ribs are united to each other and to the seventh costal cartilage by ligaments (sometimes by short vertical bars of cartilage), and those of the vertebral ribs end freely. The inner surfaces of the lower six afford attachment to the diavhixigm and the transversalis muscle. The second, third, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages articulate Avith the sides of the sternum, at a spot corresponding to the junction of two sternebrcne. The sixth and seventh (and eighth when this reaches the sternum) are arranged irregularly. As a rule the sixth lies in a recess in the side of the fifth sternebra ; the seventh corresponds to the line of junction of the meso- and metasternum; and the eighth articulates with the metasternum. (See fig. 116.) Blood-supply.—The twigs for the costal cartilages are derived from the terminal twigs of the aortic intercostals, and from the internal mammary arteries. Development.—At the eighth week of intra-uterine life the ribs are cartila- ginous. About this date an earthy spot appears near the angle of each rib, and Internal intercostal. External intercostal. Levator costae. Diaphragm. Transversalis abdominis. External oblique. Internal oblique. Serratus posticus inferior. Musculus accessorius. Sacro-lumbalis or ilio-costalis. Erector spinas. Quadratus lumborum. Latissimus dorsi.