1142 SURGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY linea alba, a little below its centre, is the umbilicus. This corresponds to the level of the fibro-cartilage between the third and fourth lumbar vertebra, the tip of the third lumbar spine (Windle), the highest point of the iliac crests, and a point three-quarters of an inch to one inch above the bifurcation of the aorta. On each side of the linea alba, and about two and a half to three inches from it (according to the muscular development), a line, curved with a slight convexity outwards, the linea semilunaris, denotes the point of division of the abdominal aponeuroses, reaching from the ninth costal cartilage to the pubic spine. Between the linea alba and the linea semilunaris run the three lineae transversas, of which one is placed at the umbilicus, another at the xiphoid cartilage, and a third between the two, on a level with the tenth costal cartilage. There is, rarely, a fourth below the umbilicus. In very corpulent subjects two deep transverse furrows run across the abdomen. One runs across the navel and completely conceals it. The other is lower down, just Fig. G88.—Obliquus externus and Fascia lata. Aponeurosis of obliquus externus SPERMATIC CORD Origin of eremaster Loops of eremaster 11' above the fat of the pubes. In tapping the bladder above the pubes in such a case the trocar should be introduced where this line intersects the linea alba. (Holden. A transverse line drawn from one anterior superior spine to the other is abou the level of the promontory of the sacrum. Such a line will always show whethe the pelvis is horizontal or not. (Holden.) Poupart's ligament corresponds to a line drawn with a slight curve downward between the anterior superior spine and the pubic spine. The first of these bon; prominences corresponds to the starting point of the above ligament, the attachmen: of the fascia lata to the ilium, the meeting of the fleshy and aponeurotic parts o j the external oblique (denoted by a line drawn upwards from this spine to the nintl, costal cartilage, or often a little anteriorly to these points), the point of emergence o the external cutaneous nerve, and part of the origins of the internal oblique, transver | salis, and tensor vaginae femoris. The pubic spine marks the outer pillar of th I external abdominal ring, the mouth of which corresponds to the crest, or that par