596 THE ABTEBIES (3) The epididymal are distributed to the epididymis, and anastomose with the artery of the vas. (4) The testicular are the terminal branches of the spermatic ; they perforate i the tunica albuginea posteriorly, and are distributed to the body of the organ in the way mentioned in the section on the Testicle. Chief variations in the spermatic arteries.—(A) One or both may be wanting, the testicle being then supplied by branches from the vesical or prostatic arteries passing under the arch of the pubis. (B) One or both may arise from the renal, more rarely from the supra- renal. (C) One may come off higher than the other. (D) They may come off from a common stem. (E) One or both may be double in the whole or part of their course. (F) The right spermatic may run behind instead of in front of the interior vena cava. THE OVAEIAN ARTERIES i The ovarian arteries are the homologues of the spermatic arteries in the male, and correspond in their relations in the upper part of their course. They diverge somewhat less however, and on reaching the level of the common iliac artery turn inwards over that vessel and descend tortuously into the pelvis between the folds of the broad ligament to the ovaries. In the broad ligament the : ovarian artery lies below the Fallopian tube, and on reaching the ovary turns backwards and supplies that organ (fig. 370). They give off the following branches :—(1) Uretal; (2) Fallopian ; (3) uterine ; and (4) ligamentous. (1) The uretal is distributed, as in the male, to the ureter. (2) The Fallopian supplies the isthmus and ampulla of the Fallopian tube and its fimbriated extremity. i (3) The uterine runs along the Fallopian tube to the superior cornu of the uterus, which it supplies, together with the upper part of the fundus uteri, and anastomoses with the uterine arteries from the internal iliac. (4) The ligamentous is distributed to the round ligament, passing with that i structure through the inguinal canal, and anastomosing with the cremasteric and superficial external pudic arteries. Like the spermatic, the ovarian arteries in the foetus come off at right angles to the aorta, and pass transversely outwards to the ovaries, which are formed, as i are the testicles, in the right and left loin in front of the kidneys. They elongate I as the ovaries descend into the pelvis. During pregnancy these arteries undergo great enlargement. THE INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY The inferior mesenteric artery, smaller than the superior, arises from the front of the abdominal aorta about an inch and a half above the bifurcation of that , vessel. It runs obliquely downwards and to the left, across the lower part of the \ abdominal aorta and then over the left psoas muscle and common iliac artery, descends into the pelvis between the layers of the meso-rectum, and terminates on the rectum in the superior hemorrhoidal or superior rectal artery. It at first lies behind the peritoneum, or in the left lumbar meso-colon when that structure is present. It supplies the lower half of the large intestine. Its vein lies at first j close to the left side, but soon passes upwards on the psoas, away from the artery, to end in the splenic vein (fig. 367). The branches of the inferior mesenteric are:—(1) The left colic; (2) the sig- ' moid ; and (3) the superior hsemorrhoidal. (1) The left colic runs transversely outwards and to the left, beneath the i peritoneum, and divides into two branches, one of which, entering the transverse