THE UBINARY ORGANS 1096 In the more aggravated forms the defect of union involves the scrotum also, and leads to a spurious hermaphrodism in which is perpetuated a superficial resemblance to the female genitals, the simulation being made greater by the imperfect descent of the testicles, j All these congenital defects are clearly accounted for b}^ ascertained facts in morphology'; but there is a malformation which our present knowledge does not satisfactorily explain— that known as ' extroversion of the bladder,' in which a non-closure of the ventral parietes below the umbilicus coincides with a fissure in the anterior wall of the allantoic bladder, { and leads to an extrusion of the posterior wall of the viscus. Mr. Shattock suggests that the condition is perhaps the result of an undue extension forwards of the cloacal fissure; but the problem cannot yet be regarded as solved. THE PERINyEUM \ i The term perinseum (Trept, vatui) has been variously applied by anatomists— i firstly, in its original and general meaning, to the soft parts connected with the pelvic outlet; secondly, to the anterior or genito-urinary segment only of these parts ; and thirdly, to the tissues separating the vulvo-vaginal and ano-rectal passages. It is here employed in the first and broader sense, the expression ' perinsemn proper' being used for the second application, and that of ' perinseal body ' for the third. The outlet of the pelvis is a lozenge-shaped space bounded in front by the symphysis and subpubic ligament, behind by the tip of the coccyx, and on each • side by the conjoined rami of os pubis and ischium, the tuber ischii, and the inferior border of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The latter structure is overlapped to a variable extent by the gluteus maximus, which also covers the tuber ischii when the thighs are extended ; but the glutei are merely accessory to the true boundaries. The dimensions of the outlet in the male and female are given in page 156. The further anatomy of the parts differs in the two sexes. THE MALE PEEIN^UM The integument of the perinseum is pigmented, beset with scattered hairs, and its sebaceous and sudoriparous glands are largely developed. Its deeper layers contain an abundance of smooth muscular fibre continuous with the dartos of the scrotum, and these are so disposed around the anal margin as to corrugate the skin into radiating folds during their contraction. The landmarks of the region are for the most part well-defined. The symphysis in front is obscured by the root of the penis, which may be traced backw^ards as a soft median prominence as far as a point an inch anterior to the anus. On each side the pubic and ischial rami may be felt running outwards and backwards to expand into the ischial tuberosity, which is uncovered by the gluteus maximus when the thigh is flexed. Extending backwards and inwards from the tuberosity may be detected, in thin subjects, the resistance of the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and still more posteriorly the coccyx is felt in the middle line immediately beneath the skin. The anal aperture, surrounded by radiating furrows, lies a short distance in front of the coccyx, and on each side of it is a depression called the ischio-rectal fossa, the superficial aspect of which depends upon the amount of fat ^ which occupies it. The perinaeum is divided arbitrarily into two parts by a line drawn transversely between the two ischial tuberosities an inch in front of the anus. The anterior portion is called the perinaeum proper, the posterior the ischio-rectal region. This line, however, does not coincide exactly with the true anatomical boundary as i revealed by dissection.