THE ABTEBIES 532 quarter of an inch behind the globe, runs forwards in the substance of the nerve to the eyeball supplying the retina. Its further description is given in the Anatomy OF THE Eye. (c7) The Muscular Branches The muscular branches are very variable in their origin and distribution. They may be roughly divided into superior and inferior sets. The superior or smaller set supply the superior oblique, the levator palpebree, and superior rectus, i The inferior pass forward between the optic nerve and the inferior rectus, supply- i ing that muscle, the internal rectus, and the inferior obhque. From the muscular: branches are given off the anterior ciliary arteries. (See Ciliary Arteries.) I (e) The Ciliary Arteries The ciliary arteries are divided into three sets :—The short posterior, the long| posterior, and the anterior, (i) The short posterior, five to six in number, com(| off chiefly from the ophthalmic as it is crossing the optic nerve. They run forwarc'! about the nerve, dividing into twelve or fifteen small vessels, which perforate th(; sclerotic around the entrance of the optic nerve, and are distributed to the choroicj coat, (ii) The long posterior ciliary arteries, usually two in number, come ofj from the ophthalmic on either side of the optic nerve, and run forward with thj short ciliary to the sclerotic. On piercing the sclerotic, they course forwardj between that coat and the choroid to the ciHary processes and iris. Their furthej distribution is given under the Anatomy of the Eye. (iii) The anterior ciliarj are derived from the muscular branches and from the lachrymal. They run t j the globe along the tendons of the recti, forming a zone of radiating vessel | beneath the conjunctiva. They perforate the sclerotic about a quarter of an inc j (6 mm.) behind the cornea, and supply the iris and cihary processes. It is thes j vessels that are enlarged and congested in iritis, forming the circumcorneal zonj of redness so characteristic of that disease. : (/) The Posterior Ethmoidal Artery i The posterior ethmoidal runs inwards between the superior oblique and intern rectus, and, leaving the orbit by the posterior ethmoidal canal, enters the posterii \ ethmoidal cells, whence it passes through a transverse slit-like aperture betwe( the sphenoid bone and cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone into the cranium. ^ gives off (i) ethmoidal branches to the posterior ethmoidal cells; (ii) meningej branches to the dura mater lining the cribriform plate; and (iii) nasal branch(| which pass through the cribriform plate to the superior meatus and upper sponj bones of the nose, and anastomose with the nasal branches of the spheno-palatij artery. j {g) The Anterior Ethmoidal Artery ] The anterior ethmoidal (figs. 839, 387), a larger branch than the poster| ethmoidal, arises in front of the latter, passes inwards between the superl oblique and internal rectus, and, leaving the orbit through the anterior ethmoi(| canal, in company with the nasal nerve, enters the cranial cavity. After runn: || a short distance beneath the dura mater on the cribriform plate of the ethm i bone, it passes into the nose through the horizontal sht-hke aperture by the side f the crista galh. Its terminal branch passes along the groove on the under surf 13 of the nasal bone, and emerges on the nose between the bone and lateral cartilaf, terminating in the sldn of that organ. It gives off the following branches m 3 course :—(i) Ethmoidal, to the anterior ethmoidal cells ; (ii) meningeal, to the d i