1008 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION behind. At the ends of the sHt the valves unite and are prolonged at either end a a ridge partially surrounding the intestine (fraena). Villi cover that surface of th folds looking towards the ileum. The surface towards the large intestine is fre from villi. In the formation of this valve the longitudinal muscular fibres pas across from the ileum to the large intestine without dipping down between the twi layers of each fold. The circular muscular fibres, on the other hand, are containeij between the layer of the mucous membrane and submucous tissue which form theirj The colon.—In the adult the ascending and the descending parts of the colon arl placed vertically, while the direction of the transverse colon is practically horizontal The average length in the adult of the ascending colon (as measured from the ti of the caecum to the hepatic flexure) is eight inches, and of the descending coloi (as measured from the splenic bend to the commencement of the sigmoid loop) i! eight and a half inches. The descending colon is the part of the large bowel thai is least liable to variation. It is the only part of the gut except the duodenum tha| retains its original position as a portion of the great primary vertical loop. Th' Fig. 576.—Section of the Ascending Colon. (x\llen Thomson.) Creseentie ridge of mucous membrane wMeli divides the saceuli Longitudinal muscle Inner band Circvilar muscle transverse colon, on the other hand, is liable to considerable variation in lengt position, and arrangement. Its average length is twenty inches in the adult. I has been found to vary in adults from twelve to thirty-three inches. The ascending colon.—The ascending colon extends from the cascum to th inferior surface of the liver close to the gall bladder, forming there the hepatic flexur It is covered by peritoneum in front and at the side, but in a certain proportion o, cases (twenty-six percent in one hundred dissections) this part of the large intestinij is connected with the posterior wall of the abdomen by a meso-colon, that is to say| it is quite surrounded by peritoneum. Connected with the ascending colon ir sometimes found a fold of peritoneum, extending from the right side of the gut t( the parietes at a little above the level of the highest part of the iliac crest. I forms a shelf upon which rests the extreme right margin of the liver. It might b(] called the sustentaculum hepatis. The ascending colon is in relation behind with the right kidney, second portior of the duodenum, and quadratus lumborum. In front are some of the coils of the ileum (fig. 577).