THE ARTICULATIONS 204 thickest in the thoracic region, and thicker in the lumbar than the cervical. It is firmly connected with the bodies of the vertebrae, and is composed of longitudinal fibres, of which the superficial extend over several, while the deeper pass over only two or three vertebrae. It is connected with the tendinous expansion of the prevertebral muscles in the cervical, and the crura of the diaphragm are closely attached to it in the lumbar region. The posterior common ligament (figs. 199, 202, 203, and 209) extends from the occipital bone to the coccyx. It is wider above than below, and commences by a broad attachment to the cranial surface of the basi-occipital. In the cervical region it is of nearly uniform width, and extends completely across the bodies of the vertebrae, upon which it rests quite flat. It does, how^ever, extend slightly further outwards on each side opposite the intervertebral discs. In the thoracic and lumbar regions it is distinctly dentated, being broader over the intervertebral Fig. 203.—Posterior Common Ligament. (Lumbar region.) -Median band -Expanded lateral portion substances and the edges of the bones, than over the middle of the bodies, where it is a narrow band stretched over the bones without resting on them, some areolar tissue and blood-vessels being interposed. The narrow median portion consists of longitudinal fibres, some of which are superficial and pass over several vertebrae ; and others are deeper, and extend only from one vertebra to the next but one below. The dentated or broader portions (fig. 203) are formed by oblique fibres which, springing from the bodies near the intervertebral foramina, take a curved course downwards and backwards over an intervertebral substance, and reach the narrow portion of the ligament on the centre of the vertebra next below; they then diverge to pass over another intervertebral disc to end on the body of the vertebra beyond, near the intervertebral notch. They thus pass over two discs and three