27 THE OCCIPITAL lateral angle. In some cases the superior and middle nuchal lines are confluent in their outer thirds, and form a prominent ridge for the insertion of the sterno- mastoid and s])lenius cajntis muscles. When these muscles are well developed, there is a fairly wide interval between the lines. The inferior nuchal line begins near the middle of the crest and curves downwards to the jugular process. Of the spaces deliminated by these lines, that between the superior and middle is occupied by the trapezius, and frequently by the sterno-mastoid and splenius capitis muscles. The space between the middle and inferior receives the complexus, and the space between the inferior line and the foramen magnum is occupied by the rectus capitis posticus minor, rectus capitis posticus major, and the superior oblique muscles. The cerebral surface is deeply concave, and divided by crucial ridges into four fossae, of which the upper two accommodate the occipital lobes of the cerebrum, the lower pair the cerebellar hemispheres. The ridges intersect each other, and Fig. 30.—The Occipital. (External view.) Trapezius INION OR EXTERNAL-OCCIPITAL PROTUBERANCE at the point where they cross an eminence, the internal occipital protuberance, is seen. The vertical ridge runs upwards to the superior angle of the bone and furnishes attachment for the falx cerebri; the portion of the ridge below the protuberance, the internal occipital crest, is for the falx cerebelli. As it nears the foramen magnum this ridge divides, becoming lost upon its margins. The angle of divergence is often occupied by a shallow fossa for the extremity of the vermiform process of the cerebellum, and is called the vermiform fossa. The horizontal ridge is deeply grooved ; to the edges of the groove the tentorium cerebelli is attached, the grooves lodge the greater part of the lateral sinuses. To one side of the internal occipital protuberance, usually the right, the furrow for the sinus is deeper and frequently forms a circular fossa which receives the torcular. This fossa is sometimes exactly in the middle line. The squamo-occipital has three angles and four borders. The superior angle fits into the space formed by the union of the two parietals. The lateral angles mark the external limits of the middle nuchal lines, and occupy the angle formed