VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK 655 The anterior jugular vein begins below the chin by communicating- with the mental, submental, inferior labial, and inferior hyoid veins. It descends a little external to the middle line, receiving branches from the superficial structures at the front and side of the neck, and occasionally a branch from the larynx and thyroid body. Just above the clavicle it turns outwards, and, piercing the fascia, passes beneath the sterno-mastoid muscle and opens into the external jugular vein just before the latter joins the subclavian; at times it opens into the subclavian vein itself. In its course down the neck it communicates with the external jugular ; and, as it turns outwards beneath the sterno-mastoid, sends a branch across the trachea, between the layers of cervical fascia, to join the anterior jugular of the opposite side. This communicating vein may be divided in the operation of tracheotomy, and is then often found greatly engorged with blood. When the anterior jugular vein is large, the external jugular is small, and vice versa. It is usually also of large size when the corresponding vein on the opposite side is absent, as is frequently the case. It contains no valves. The position of the anterior jugular vein beneath the tendon of the sterno-mastoid should be borne in mind in tenotomy of that muscle for wry-neck. THE DEEP VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK The deep veins of the head and neck may be divided into—1. the veins of the diploe ; 2. the venous sinuses of the cranium ; 3. the veins of the brain; 4. the veins of the nasal cavities ; 5. the veins of the ear; 6. the veins of the orbit; 7. the veins of the pharynx and larynx; and 8. the deep veins of the neck. The veins of the diploe terminate partly in the superficial veins already described, partly in the venous sinuses of the cranium, and partly in the deep veins of the neck. The venous sinuses open into the deep veins of the neck. The veins of the brain terminate in the venous sinuses. The veins of the nasal cavities terminate partly in the deep, and to some extent in the superficial veins. The veins of the ear join both the superficial and deep veins and the venous sinuses. The veins of the orbit terminate partly in the superficial veins, but chiefly in the venous sinuses. The veins of the pharynx and larynx enter the deep veins of the neck. 1. THE VEINS OF THE DIPLOE The veins of the diploe are contained in bony channels in the cancellous tissue between the external and internal tables of the skull. They are of comparatively large size, with very thin and imperfect walls, and form irregular communicating channels. They have no valves. They can only be seen on removing the external table of the skull with a file or chisel. They terminate in four or five main and descending channels, which open, some outwards through the external table of the skull into some of the superficial and deep veins of the head and face, and some inwards through the internal table into the venous sinuses. They are divided into the frontal, fronto-sphenoidal, fronto-parietal or anterior temporal, external parietal or posterior temporal, and occipital or parieto-occipital. The frontal are contained in the anterior part of the frontal bone. They con- verge anteriorly to a single vein which passes downwards, perforates the external table through a small aperture in the roof of the supraorbital notch, and terminates in the supraorbital vein. The fronto-sphenoidal are contained in the lateral parts of the frontal bone, and, running into the sphenoid bone, terminate in the sinus alse parvaB.