BESTIFOBM BODY—FIBRES OF CEBEBELLUM 783 optic thalamus, while others probably pass to the cortex cerebri via the inner capsule. The inferior fillet arises chiefly in the pons from the superior olive and from the nucleus of the inferior fillet. The latter is a collection of nerve-cells which is placed close to the cerebral end of the superior olive. The inferior fillet comes to the surface at the lateral groove of the mesencephalon as above described, and then encloses the nucleus of the testis. A portion of it decussates above the aqueduct of Sylvius to reach the testis of the opposite side. Many additional fibres have been said to join the fillet; in particular, fibres from the anterior column may be mentioned (Homan and Spitzka). The posterior longitudinal bundle may be regarded as the cerebral continua- tion of the anterior ground bundle of the cord. It is generally believed to establish communications between the nuclei of the eye-muscle nerves. Its connection with the facial nerve is described in the account of the anatomy of that nerve (page 810). The restiform body is the continuation of the direct cerebellar tract together with fibres from the columns of Goll and Burdach. Its connection with these columns is partly crossed, partly uncrossed. The uncrossed fibres have been shown to take a larger share in the formation of the restiform body than the crossed fibres (Darkschewitsch and Freud). The crossed fibres all reach the restiform body as arciform fibres ; many of these fibres traverse the olivary nucleus but without entering into connection with its nerve-cells (Edinger) ; they also traverse the accessory olives and may pierce the ascending root of the trigeminal nerve ; they all decussate at the raphe, and from thence proceed in two groups, superficial and deep arciform fibres. The superficial arciform fibres emerge through the anterior fissure of the medulla, some also through the sulcus paramedianus ventralis, and arch round the pyramidal body and olive to join the restiform body. In this part of their course they pass between the root-fibres of the ninth, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth nerves. The deep arciform fibres, after crossing in the raphe, traverse the olivary nucleus of the opposite side, and pass from thence, through the substance of the medulla, into the restiform body. The olivary body also sends fibres to the restiform body. Fibres pass out of the hilum and cross in the raphe; they then traverse the olivary body of the opposite side and join the restiform body. The fibres of the cerebellum may be described under the following heads : [a) Fibres derived from the cerebellar peduncles, and {h) intrinsic fibres, {a) The fibres from the pons (middle peduncle) are, as already described (page 760), partly true commissural fibres, and partly fibres which establish (with or without the intervention of nerve-cells) a crossed connection between the cerebrum and cerebellum. The upper fibres of the pons pass into the lateral parts of the cerebellar hemispheres, and end in the grey cortex. The middle fibres sweep downwards, forming the oblique fasciculus, and end in the folia of the inferior surface. The lower fibres accompany the restiform body to the superior surface. The restiform body (inferior peduncle) is joined on entering the cerebellum by the inferior fibres of the pons ; the two together unite into a distinct round bundle, the inner part of which is formed by the restiform body ; the outer by the pons-fibres. This bundle passes through a distinct gap or interval bounded by the superior peduncle internally, and by the greater part of the middle peduncle externally. Its fibres then spread out into a layer (fibraB semicirculares of Stilling), which are disposed in gentle curves convex backwards and outwards ; these fibres cover the capsule of the corpus dentatum, and finally sweep abruptly upwards into the folia of the superior vermis. Some fibres enter the nucleus fastigii. The corpus dentatum is covered by a distinct capsule of fibres (the ' fleece' of Stilling) derived from the olivary nucleus of the opposite side. The fibres are probably for the most part interrupted in the nerve-cells of the corpus dentatum,