THE MALAB BONES 67 the temporal fossa. A large part of this surface is rough for articulation with the malar process of the maxilla. The orbital process of the malar is at right angles with the external surface, and presents the orbital orifice of the malar canal; this canal is usually single, but it may bifurcate as it traverses the bone, one branch emerging on the external, the other on the internal surface. The thin edge of this process articulates inferioiiy with the orbital plate of the maxilla, and ends in a i point known as the maxillary process. The superior portion articulates with the malar crest on the external surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid ; in the suture between these bones a notch (sometimes a foramen) exists for the temporal branch of the fifth nerve. When the orbital surface is large, it excludes the sphenoidal wing from articulation with the maxilla at the anterior extremity of the spheno-maxillary fissure. When this is the case, the border presents near its middle a short non-serrated margin. The malar bone presents superiorly the frontal process, which articulates with the external angular process of the frontal bone. The maxillary process articulates Fig. 76.—The Left Malar Bone, frontal process orbital border malar canal maxillary process anterior border NOTCH ■ORBITAL PROCESS MALAR CANAL MAXILLARY PROCESS MAXILLARY SURFACE with the maxilla, and occasionally forms the superior segment of the infraorbital foramen. The zygomatic process is directed backwards, and is serrated mainly on its inner aspect for articulation with the zygoma. Of the four borders, the orbital is the longest, and extends from the frontal to the maxillary process. It is thick, rounded, and forms the outer and a large portion of the inferior circumference of the orbit. The inferior is continuous with the zygoma, and gives origin to the anterior fibres of the masseter. The anterior border is in relation with the maxilla, and near the margin of the orbit gives origin to a portion of the levator lahii superiorisiwoprius. The posterior border extends from the frontal to the zygomatic process, and presents a double curve ; it gives attach- ment to the temporal fascia. This border is directly continuous below with the upper border of the zygoma, and above with the temporal ridge. Articulations.—The malar articulates with the maxilla, frontal, sphenoid, and temporal bones. Blood-supply.—The arteries of the malar are derived from the infraorbital, F 2