THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION 1012 oblique semilunar folds, which project into the lumen of the tube : one in front b the prostate, and two others higher up; one from the left side, and one on th right, the highest. Structure of the large intestine.—There are four coats : a serous, muscula| submucous, and mucous. j The serous is derived from the peritoneum, and is more or less complete. j The appendices epiploic?e in connection with this layer have been mentione! (%-576). I The muscular cooA is divided into circular and longitudinal layers, the longj tudinal being external. The arrangement of the longitudinal fibres has bee| described in as far as they make up the three longitudinal bands (fig. 576). Onli a small amount of longitudinal fibres are found between the bands, except on thj vermiform appendix and lower part of the sigmoid flexure, where they are arrange! all round. ! The circular fibres form a thin layer, and are mostly collected in the intervji between the sacculi. , The mucous membrane, separated from the muscular layer by the suhmucoiu layer, has no villi, and no valvule© conniventes. Blood-vessels.—The large intestine is supplied with blood by the branches of thj superior mesenteric and inferior mesenteric arteries, while it also receives a blooc supply from the internal iliac at the rectum. The vessels form a continuous seriti of arches from the caecum, where the vasa intestini tenuis anastomose with thj ileo-colica, the first branch of the superior mesenteric given to the large intestine. The blood-supply of the rectum is from the inferior mesenteric by the superic hsemorrhoidal, from the internal iliac by the middle haemorrhoidal, and from th internal pudic by the inferior hjemorrhoidal. The vessels at the lower end of th rectum assume a longitudinal direction, communicating freely near the anus, an less freely above. 1 The blood of the large intestine is returned into the portal vein by means of th superior mesenteric and inferior mesenteric veins. At the rectum a communicatio is set up between the systemic and portal system of veins, since some of the blool of that part of the intestine is returned into the internal iliac veins. In the lowd end of the rectum the veins, like the arteries, are arranged longitudinally. Th: arrangement is called the haemorrhoidal plexus. i The nerves and lymphatics of the large intestine differ in no importai particular from those of the small intestine. i THE LIVER The liver—the largest gland in the body—is situated in the upper and rigl]| part of the abdominal cavity (figs. 565, 578). It is of most irregular shape, ll weighs between fifty and sixty ounces. In females the liver is smaller than il males. It bears a different relation to the body weight at different ages. It form] one-fortieth part of the weight of the body in the adult male, and one-thirt}'| sixth in the adult female. In the foetus, at the fourth month, it is one-tenth thl weight of the body, and in the infant at birth one twenty-fourth (fig. 578). I measures from right to left ten to twelve inches, from before backwards six tij seven inches, and three and a half inches from above downwards in the thickesj part of the right lobe. It is of a chocolate or reddish-brown colour, is solid an(j firm to the touch, but friable. Its bulk is equal to ninety-five cubic inches. |