758 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM \ \ surface of the lower part of the medulla. As already mentioned in the descrip- tion of the meninges, it presents three openings or deficiencies : one (foramen of Majendie) in the middle line immediately above the obex, and two (foramina of Key and Retzius) at the lateral recesses. The obex is a thin, somewhat triangular plate of white matter, occupying the angular interval between the two diverging clavje. It is not infrequently absent. ' The ligulse are thin narrow strips of white matter, which project from the inner margins of the clavse. They run at first upwards and forwards, and then turn outwards around the restiform bodies. They may sometimes be traced as far as the flocculi, when they become continuous with the inferior medullary vela. Their inner, apparently free, edges are continuous with the epithelial roof of the fourth ventricle. The floor of the fourth ventricle is a depressed area, which is rhomboidal in I outline, the longer diameter of the rhomboid being directed upwards and forwards and marked by a very distinct fissure, the sulcus longitudinalis medianus, which is continuous below with the central canal of the spinal cord. The ventricular floor is bounded laterally by the clavae and corpora restiformia below, and by the superior peduncles of the cerebellum above. Under cover of the obex, where the fourth ventricle is about to join the central canal of the cord, a small ampulla is formed, termed the ventricle of Arantius. The widest part of the floor corresponds to the lateral recesses of the ventricle. Close behind the lateral recesses, the floor is crossed by some white lines, the strise meduUares or striae acusticae, which emerge from the sulcus longitudinalis medianus, and pass outwards to the auditory nerve. The stride divide the floor into two approximately equal parts, a posterior and an anterior. The posterior moiety of the floor is indented by an angular groove, the fovea inferior or posterior, which marks off a depressed triangular area of a grey colour, the ala cinerea. The latter corresponds in position to the subjacent nuclei of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, and is therefore also termed the trigonum vagi. The apex of the posterior fovea is directed forwards. It nearly touches the striae acusticae, and thus two other triangular spaces, both of a whitish colour, are marked off in the posterior moiety of the floor. The internal of these spaces is called the trigonum hypoglossi, since it corresponds in position to the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve. It is bounded by the posterior fovea, the striae acusticae, and the sulcus longitudinalis medianus. The outer triangle is bounded by the posterior fovea, by the stride acusticae, and by the clavae. It forms the posterior part of a prominence or swelling which extends into the pontine portion of the floor. This prominence is called the tuberculum acusticum. It is well marked in the brain of the infant. The anterior moiety of the floor is completely covered by a thin layer of white substance. It presents, on each side of the sulcus longitudinalis medianus, a semi- cylindrical elevation about five millimetres in length, which is called the eminentia teres. It is caused by an underlying bundle of fibres, the fasciculus teres, which is now known to be a part of the intrapontine course of the fibres of the facial nerve, though possibly it may contain fibres from other sources. External to the eminentia teres is a depressed area, the fovea superior, which is occasionally crossed by a whitish band of fibres, the conductor sonorus. The conductor sonorus meets the stria medullaris of its own side, at the sulcus longitudinalis medianus, at an acute angle. Immediately in front of the fovea superior is a bluish spot, the locus cseruleus, which is caused by the substantia ferruginea showing through the white covering of the floor. The substantia ferruginea is an aggregation of darkly-pigmented cells, which is very conspicuous in transverse sections through the upper part of the floor of the fourth ventricle and through the lower part of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The PONS VAROLII is that portion of the epencephalon which lies in front of the proximal part of the fourth ventricle. As seen from the base of the brain, it forms