166 THE SKELETON back of the internal tuberosity, and ends at the posterior margin of the malleokis. The internal lateral ligament is attached to its upper 7*5 cm. (3"), and the middle third gives origin to the soleus. The interosseous border extends from the fibular facet on the outer tuberosity to the lower end of the bone ; towards its termination the border bifurcates to enclose a triangular space for the attachment of the inter- osseous ligament between the tibia and fibula. The part above the bifurcation is connected with the interosseous membrane. These borders limit three surfaces. The internal surface is bounded by the internal border and the crest; it is broad above, where it receives the insertion of the sartorms, gracilis, and semitendinosus ; the rest of the surface is convex and subcutaneous. The external surface lies between the crest of the tibia and the interosseous border. The upper two-thirds presents a hollow for the origin of the tibialis anticns ; the rest of the surface is overlaid by the extensor tendons and the anterior tibial vessels. The posterior surface is limited by the interosseous ridge and the internal border. The upper part presents a rough oblique ridge, extending from the fibular facet on the outer tuberosity to the internal border, a little above the middle of the bone. This oblique ridge gives origin to the soktis and attachment to the popliteal fascia; the surface above is for the insertion of the 20opliteus. An indefinite vertical ridge commences near the middle of the oblique line, and marks off a semilunar space, limited externally by the mterosseous border. This is for the tibialis posticus; it extends as low as the junction of the middle and lower thirds. The portion of bone outside this vertical line is for the flexor longus digitorum. The lower third of the posterior surface is covered by flexor tendons. The inferior extremity is somcAvhat quadrilateral, and resembles the distal end of the radius. Its inferior surface is articular for the upper surface of the astragalus and is continuous with the external surface of the malleolus, which articulates with the facet on the inner side of the astragalus. The outer surface has a triangular rough area for the lower end of the shaft of the fibula, its margins being rough for ligaments. The anterior border is slightly convex, and by its margin gives attachment to the anterior ligament of the ankle. The posterior surface has two grooves: the one which encroaches on the malleolus is for the tendons of tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, and an outer shallow groove for the tendon of flexor longus hallucis. The inner surface is prolonged downwards to form the malleolus; from its tip and margins the internal lateral (deltoid) ligament of the ankle joint arises. The inner surface of the malleolus is convex and subcutaneous; the outer, as already stated, has a facet for the inner surface of the astragalus. The tibia afi'ords attachment to the followino- muscles :— Semimembranosus. Sartorius. Gracilis. Semitendinosus. Quadriceps extensor. Popliteus. Tensor vaginae femoris (indirectly). Tibialis posticus. Tibialis anticus. Soleus. Peroneus longus. Flexor longus digitorum. Extensor longus digitorum. Biceps femoris. Ligaments Anterior crucial. Posterior crucial. Internal lateral of the knee. Internal semilunar cartilage. External semilunar cartilage. Coronary. Anterior tibio-fibular (superior). Posterior tibio-fibular (superior). Ilio-tibial band. Interosseous membrane.