950 THE OBGANS OF VOICE outwards, where they terminate in the vocal processes, the glottis presenting a lozenge-shaped' appearance. | On phonation the cords become parallel and closely approximated, and the I vocal processes approaching each other cause the angle to be turned inwards. ; The infrarimal portion of the larynx rapidly widens out into a nearly circular! cavity at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, from which point it is continuous \ with the lumen of the trachea. I Nerves.—The nerves of the larynx are derived from the superior and inferior! (recurrent) laryngeal branches of the vagus. i The superior laryngeal.—The sensory nerve of the larynx gives off near its' origin behind the carotid sheath a long and slender filament, which is principally! motor. This (external) branch is distributed to the crico-thyroid muscle, a fe-R minute filaments reaching the mucous membrane of the larynx. Its larger and main branch (internal) is sensory, and passes through th aperture in the thyro-hyoid membrane above the superior laryngeal artery. I divides beneath the mucous membrane which lines the sinus pyriformis, distributin branches upw^ards to supply both surfaces of the epiglottis and the base of th tongue immediately in front; inwards to the aryteno-epiglottidean fold and it^ neighbourhood; whilst others pass downwards to the mucous membrane of th deeper portions of the larynx as far as the true vocal cords. The inferior (recurrent) laryngeal, the motor nerve of the larynx, ascends ir the groove between the trachea and oesophagus, both of which structures it supplies It reaches the larynx below the edge of the inferior constrictor, and immediatel behind the crico-thyroid joint. At this spot it divides into two branches: a' anterior to supply the thyro-arytenoideus, crico-arytenoideus lateralis, with th muscles of the epiglottis ; and a posterior branch to the crico-arytenoideus posticu and arytenoideus. The superior laryngeal communicates with this branch by a slender filament which passes downwards near to the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage This communication sometimes takes place beneath the posterior crico-arytenoi muscle. The arteries are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid, the epiglotti receiving some twigs from the dorsalis linguae of the lingual. The veins correspond with the arteries ; and the lymphatics, which are scanty follow the vessels and end in the deep cervical glands. THE TRACHEA The trachea, or air-tube, which is cylindrical in shape, but flattened posteriorly, extends from the lower border of the fifth cervical vertebra to the fourth or fift tlioracic vertebra. It is continuous with the larynx above, and divides into the twci bronchi below. It measures from four and a half to five inches in length, and isi nearly an inch in width. i Relations.—In its cervical portion it rests upon the oesophagus, which curves ! somewhat to the left at the root of the neck; on each side, but especially on the; left, it comes into relationship with the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid arteries, and the recurrent laryngeal nerves. These latter running. upwards gain the lateral groove between the trachea and oesophagus; and lastly, it is in relation with the sheath containing the common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve. ;