I I 784 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM and are then (indirectly) continued into the white matter which occupies the interior of that phcated bag of grey matter. From the hikmi of the corpus dentatum a bundle of fibres passes out, which is joined by fibres from the fleece, and thus the superior cerebellar peduncle is formed. The superior cerebellar peduncle passes upwards and inwards, and receives a covering on its outer side from the inferior fillet. It disappears from the surface by passing under cover of the testis of its own side, and assumes a deeper position in the mesencephalon, passing to the ventral side of the aqueduct of Sylvius. It decussates with its fellow of the opposite side, the decussation being most pronounced at the level of the centre of the nates. The decussation being completed, each peduncle proceeds brainwards as a distinct column. This column of fibres soon encounters the red nucleus, and the fibres pass through the nucleus in small bundles, the cross-section of which gives the punctated appearance to the red nucleus which is so charac- teristic of that body when seen in coronal section. Beyond the red nucleus, fibres of the superior peduncles certainly enter the optic thalamus, and probably the globus pallidus and the cortex cerebri. , [b) Sagittally-directed fibres are placed within the superior vermis. When traced forwards these fibres are found to decussate with their fellows of the opposite side in front and above the nucleus fastigii; here they are joined by true ; commissural fibres from its hemispheres, the whole forming the great anterior cerebellar commissure of Stilling. Fibres unite the different folia to one another, constituting a system of fibres which form the most peripheral part of the arbor vitae. These fibres, from their general arrangement, are called garland-like fasciculi. Nerve-tracts in the substance of the thalamencephalon and prosencephalon.— The systems of fibres which are connected with the optic thalamus may be first considered ; the principal of these are : (a) The posterior commissure ; (b) the corona radiata of the optic thalamus ; and (c) the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr. {a) The posterior commissure undoubtedly contains a tract of fibres which passes i from the optic thalamus to the tegmental region of the mesencephalon on the opposite side ; but beyond this, nothing is known with any degree of certainty. It is said to transmit fibres from the fillet and from the posterior longitudinal bundle to the opposite side. Fibres are also said to proceed via this commissure from the ganglion habenul^e and the pineal body to the oculo-motor nucleus of the opposite side. It is therefore a bundle of decussating fibres derived from various sources, and probably does not contain any true commissural fibres. {b) The corona radiata of the optic thalamus is formed of a system of fibres which converge to the thalamus from the cortex of the frontal, parietal, occipital, | and temporal lobes, and it also receives a small bundle from the cortical part of the olfactory tract. Portions of this system, namely, the fibres from the occipital lobe j (posterior peduncle of the thalamus), and from the temporal lobe (inferior peduncle), i require special notice. The posterior peduncle of the thalamus (optic radiation) passes backwards in the white matter of the hemisphere in company with a great bundle of sensory fibres to the occipital lobe. It is further described in connection with the optic nerve (page 790). The inferior peduncle may, for the sake of simplicity, be described with the ansa peduncularis, as it forms an important j constituent of that body. The ansa peduncularis may be exposed from the base of the brain by dissecting the optic tract from the surface of the crus cerebri. It is a band of fibres which winds round the ventral surface of the crusta just at the transition of the latter into the inner capsule. Its principal constituents are the ansa lenticularis and i the inferior peduncle of the thalamus. The ansa lenticularis proceeds from the ■ medullary laminae of the lenticular nucleus and passes transversely inwards ; immediately below the globus pallidus. It then enters the subthalamic region, and