867 CEBVICAL GANGLIONS which reach them vid the micldle meningeal and facial arteries respectively. In I addition to these roots to the ganglia, vaso-niotor branches, and twigs which enter ! the parotid gland, are given ofi. Other twigs, taking a downward direction, enter the intercarotic and thyroid bodies ; the latter follow the com^se of the superior thyroid vessels. 3. Communieating' branches to cranial nerves.—Branches of communication arise directly from the ganglion to join the vagus, glosso-pharyngeal, and hypo- glossal nerves. Communications are effected with the ganglia of the root and trunk of the vagus, and with the jugular and petrous ganglia of the glosso-pharyngeal. 4. The pharyngeal branches, four or five in number, pass downwards and inwards behind the external and internal carotid arteries to join the pharyngeal ' plexus. 5. The superior cervical cardiac nerve arises from the lower part of the j ganglion, or occasionally from the nerve-cord between the superior and middle cervical ganglia. The nerves of the two sides run a corresponding course in the neck, but differ in their arrangement in the thorax. In the neck, each nerve is , directed downwards on the prevertebral fascia in front of the longus colli muscle, and communicates with the upper cervical cardiac branch of the pneumogastric, with the middle cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, and mth the external laryngeal I and recurrent laryngeal nerves. On the right side the nerve passes in front of (occasionally behind) the sub- i clavian artery, and is directed along the innominate artery to reach the bifurcation ; of the trachea, in front of which it terminates in the deep cardiac plexus. On the left side the nerve is conducted into the thorax in front of the common carotid artery, and crosses in front (or rather to the left side) of the so-called j transverse part of the arch of the aorta in the interval between the trunk of the I vagus and its inferior cervical cardiac branch, and ends in the superficial cardiac plexus. Middle Cervical Ganglion The middle cervical ganglion is a small, somewhat triangular, ganglionic thickening of the cord of the sympathetic. It is situated at the point where the i cord crosses the inferior thyroid artery at the level of the sixth cervical vertebra. It is joined by rami communicantes from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. It is connected below to the inferior cervical ganglion by the main cord of the sympa- thetic, which passes behind the subclavian artery, and by one or more nerve-cords which pass in front of that vessel, forming the ansa Vieussenii. The middle j cervical ganglion gives off branches to the thyroid body and the middle cardiac nerve. The branches to the thyroid body commumicate with the superior cardiac nerve, and proceed to the gland, following the branches of the inferior thyroid artery. The middle cardiac nerve enters the thorax, passing sometimes in front of the subclavian artery, and sometimes behind that vessel. It communicates in the neck with the upper cardiac nerve, and in the thorax with the recurrent laryngeal. It terminates in the deep cardiac plexus. Inferioe Cervical Ganglion The inferior cervical ganglion is larger than the middle ganglion, and is con- nected by short rami communicantes to the seventh and eighth cervical nerves. It is irregular in form and is deeply placed, being lodged in a depression between I the neck of the first rib and the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. In this situation it is concealed by the vertebral artery, the vessel being placed in ( front of the ganglion. It is united to the first thoracic ganglion by one or two stout I 8 K 2