831 CEBVIGAL NERVES facial, and are distributed to the skin on the back of the pinna with the exception of its uppermost part. One or two twigs pass through fissures in the cartilage of the ear, and are distributed to the integument on the outer surface of the lobule and the outer surface of the lower part of the helix and antihelix. (c) The facial branches pass upwards and forwards among the superficial lobules of the parotid and supply the skin over that gland and immediately in front of it. In some cases fine twigs may be traced forwards nearly to the angle of the mouth. Transverse branch.—The superficial cervical nerve arises from the second and third nerves, and appears at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, a little below the great auricular nerve. It passes transversely across the sterno-mastoid under cover of the integuments and platysma, and divides into a number of twigs which spread out after the manner of a fan, and extend, as they approach the middle line, from the chin to the sternum. The upper two or three of these twigs unite with the inframandibular branch of the facial, and thus form loops. The trunk of the nerve is crossed superficially by the external jugular vein as it lies on the sterno-mastoid muscle. From the terminal branches of the nerve numerous twigs pierce the platysma to end in the skin of the front part of the neck. Descending branches.—These are derived from the third and fourth cervical nerves, and arise under cover of the sterno-mastoid. At their commencement they are usually united with the muscular branches destined for the trapezius. They become superficial at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, about the centre of that muscle, and are termed suprasternal, supraclavicular, and supra-acromial nerves. (1) The suprasternal twig's are small, and cross over the cla-s icular origin of the sterno-mastoid to reach the integument over the upper part of the manubrium sterni. (2) The supraclavicular nerves, of considerable size, cross in front of the middle third of the clavicle under cover of the platysma, and are distributed to the skin, covering the upper part of the pectoralis major. (3) The supra-acromial branches cross the clavicular insertion of the trapezius and the acromion process, and are distributed to the skin which invests the upper two-thirds of the deltoid muscle. Deep Branches External branches.—These consist of muscular branches, which supply the sterno-mastoid, scalenus medius, levator anguli scapula?, and trapezius. 1. The nerve to the sterno-mastoid arises from the second cervical nerve. It pierces the deep surface of the sterno-mastoid, and communicates within the muscle with the spinal accessory nerve. 2. The nerves to the scalenus medius are derived from the third and fourth cervical close to their exit from the intervertebral foramina. 3. The nerves to the levator anguli scapulae are derived from the third and fourth nerves, and occasionally from the second. They pierce the superficial surface of the levator anguli, and supply the upper three divisions of that muscle. 4. The branches to the trapezius are usually in the form of two stout twigs which are given oft' by the third and fourth cervical nerves. They emerge at the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and cross the posterior superior triangle of the neck at a lower level than the spinal accessory nerve. They pass under cover of the trapezius in company with the last-named nerve, and communicate with it to form the subtrapezial plexus, from which the trapezius is supplied. Internal branches.—The internal set of deep branches comprise communicating branches and muscular branches. 1. The communicating branches pass to the vagus and hypoglossal nerves, from the loop formed by the first and second nerves, and to the sympathetic from all of the four nerves which enter into the cervical plexus. The muscular branches are distributed to the rectus capitis lateralis, to I the recti capitis antici major and minor, to the longus colli, to the depressors of