1149 BJELATIONS OF THE SPLEEN (externally, being separated from these by the diaphragm ; and internally it is con- jnected with the great end of the stomach. Below, it overlaps slightly the outer border of the left kidney (figs. 694, 719, 720, 721, and 722). Its highest point is on la level with the spine of the ninth thoracic, and its lowest with that of the eleventh ■thoracic vertebra. Its inner end is distant about an inch and a half from the median plane of the body, and its outer about reaches the mid-axillary line (Godlee). In the natural condition it cannot be felt ; but if enlarged, its notched anterior margin ^extends downwards towards the umbilicus, and is both characteristic and readily felt. Fig. 694.—The Abdominal Aorta and Inferior Vena Cava. GALL BLADDER HEPATIC DUCT CYSTIC DUG! COMIVION DUCT Portal vein Gastro-duodenal hr. Superior pyloric Hepatic artery Bight suprarenal vein Inferior suprarenal artery Renal arter Renal vein Inferior vena cava KIDNEY Right spermatic vein Right spermatic artery Quadratus lumborum muscle Lumlar artery and vein Ureteric Iranch of spermatic artery Middle sacral vessels LEFT LOBE OF LIVER (ESOPHAGUS Left phrenic arterv Right phrenic artery Superior suprarenal Gastric artery Inferior suprarenal Splenic artery Left phrenic vein Left suprarenal vein Superior mesenteric [j artery ~ KIDNEY Ureteric branch of renal Left spermatic vein URETER Left spermatic artery Inferior mesenteric artery Ureteric branch of spermatic Ureteric branch of common iliac Common iliac arterv External iliac artery Internal iliac artery Aorta and iliae arteries.—The aorta enters the abdomen opposite the last thoracic vertebra (a point five to six inches above the umbilicus), and thence, lying to the left of the spine, divides into the two common iliacs opposite the disc between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrtE, or opposite the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra. This point is about one inch below and to the left of the umbilicus, and on a level with a line drawn across the highest part of the iliac crest. A line drawn from this point, with a curve slightly outwards, to just within the centre of Poupart's ligament will give the line of the iliac arteries ; the first two inches (about) giving the average length of the conmion iliac.