EXTEBNAL PLANTAB 629 obliquely across the foot; whilst its deep portion, extending from the fifth metatarsal bone to the proximal end of the first interosseous space, forms a slight curve with the convexity forwards, and is known as the plantar arch. The plantar arch is comparable to the deep palmar arch formed by the deep branch of the ulnar anastomosing with the radial through'the first interosseous space. This homology is at times more complete in that the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis, the homologue of the radial in the upper limb, takes the chief share in forming the arch. The external plantar artery is accompanied by two veins. The course of Fig. 378.—The Plantar Arteries. (From a dissection in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.) External calcanean artery Cutaneous branch of externa plantar Abductor minimi digiti Anastomotic branch External plantar artery First digital to outer side of little toe Lumbrieal muscle Second digital Third digital Fourth digital Anastomosis about inter- phalangeal joint Dorsal branch of collateral digital Atiastom,osis of collateral digital arteries around matrix of nail and pulp of toe Internal calcanean artery Cutaneous branch of internal plantar Abductor hallucis Internal 2Jlantar artery Plexor brevis digitorum Branch of internal plantar to digital arteries {superficial digital) Plexor brevis hallucis Princeps hallucis, or fifth plantar digital artery Collateral digital branch of princeps hallucis Collati'i-al lUgitnl branch of princi'j/s hnlliiris to inner side of great toe Collateral digital branch of princeps hallucis the artery is indicated by a line drawn across the sole of the foot from a point midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and the greater tubercle of the calcaneum to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, and thence forwards and inwards to the posterior part of the ball of the great toe. Relations.—In the first part of its course from the inner ankle to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, the artery is covered successively by the abductor hallucis and the flexor brevis digitorum, by which it is separated from the plantar fascia, and may be slightly overlapped in muscular subjects by the abductor minimi digiti. As it approaches the base of the fifth metatarsal bone, it lies, as it turns forwards