SURGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY 1242 and third metatarsal bones ; and between tlie second and third, and the third and fourth metatarsal bones (fig. 258). Dorsal artery.—The line of this is from the centre of the ankle joint to the upper part of the first interosseous space. On its inner side is the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis ; on its outer, the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum. It is crossed by the innermost tendon of the extensor brevis. The origin of this muscle should be marked on the outer and fore part of the calcaneum. Cutaneous nerves (figs. 777, 791).—The sites of these, numerous on the dorsum of the foot, are as follows :—The musculo-cutaneous nerve, having perforated the fascia in the lower third of the leg, divides into two chief branches, inner and outer, which supply all the toes save the outer part of the little, and the adjacent side& of the first and second. The anterior tibial becomes cutaneous in the first space, and is distributed to the contiguous sides of the above-mentioned toes. The external saphenous nerve runs with its vein below the malleolus, and supplies all the outer border of the foot and the outer side of the little toe. The interna] saphenous nerve, coursing with its vein in front of the internal malleolus, supplier the inner border of the foot as far as the middle of the instep. Plantar arteries.—The line of the internal would be one drawn from thf bifurcation of the posterior tibial, or about midway between the tip of the internal malleolus and the inner border of the heel, to the middle of the plantar surface o; the great toe. The course of the external plantar runs in a line drawn from th( bifurcation, first obliquely across the foot to a point a little internal to the innei side of the base of the fifth metatarsal, and thence obliquely across the foot till i' reaches the first space and joins with a communicating branch from the dorsa artery. It thus crosses the foot twice. In the first part it is more superficial, ii the second very deep ; it here forms the plantar arch, and is only separated fron the bases of the metatarsals by the interossei. Fig. 786.—Longitudinal Section of Foot. (One-third.) (Branne.) Posterior tibial vessels Tendo Aeliillis and NERVE | SCAPHOID INTERNAL CUNEIFORM Extensor proprius hallucis CALCANEUM Adductor minimi digiti External plantar vessels and NERVE Aceessorius Flexor brevis digitorum ! Plexor communis digitorum Plexor longus hallucis Plexor brevis hallucis I Luinbricalis INTERNAL PLANTAR NERVE AECHES OF THE FOOT These are two—the longitudinal and the transverse. (A) Longitudinal arch (fig. 786).—This is by far the most important. Extent, From the heel to the heads of the metatarsal bones. The toes do not add much 1