670 THE VEINS colon, the root of the mesentery, the duodenum, the head of the pancreas, the portal vein, and the liver. The median group of the lumbar lymphatic glands are also in front of it below. Behind, it lies on the lumbar vertebraB, the right lumbar arteries, the right renal artery, the right semilunar ganglion, and the right crus of the diaphragm. To the right are the peritoneum and liver. To the left is the aorta, and higher up the right crus of the diaphragm. Fig. 391.—The Abdominal Aorta and Inferior Vena Cava. Ciistic artery HEPATIC DUCT CYSTIC DUCT COMMON DUCT Portal vein Gastro-duodenal br. Superior pyloric Hepatic artery Right suprarenal tein Inferior suprarenal artery Renal arte) y Renal lein Inferior vena cava KIDNEY Right spermatic vein Right spermatic artery Quadratus lumborum muscle Lumbar artery and vein Ureteric branch of spermatic artery Middle sacral vessels LEFT LOBE OF LIVER (ESOPHAGUS Left phrenic artery Right phrenic artery Superior suprarenal Gastric artery Inferior suprarenal Splenic artery Left phrenic vein ^ Left suprarenal vein —Superior mesenteric artery KIDNEY Ureteric branch of renal Left spermatic vein URETER Left spermatic artery Inferior mesenteric artery Ureteric branch of I / spermatic Ureteric branch of common iliac Common iliac artery External iliac artery Internal iliac artery Tributaries.—The inferior vena cava receives the following veins :—(1) the renal veins ; (2) the right suprarenal vein ; (3) the right spermatic or (4) the right ovarian vein; (5) the lumbar veins ; (6) the inferior phrenic veins; (7) the hepatic veins ; and (8) the right and left common iliac veins. (1) The renal or emulgent veins return the blood from the kidneys. They are short but thick trunks, and open into the vena cava nearly at right angles to that vessel. The vein on the left side, like the kidney, is a little higher than on the right, and is also longer, in consequence of its having to cross the aorta. The comparative shortness of the right renal vein should be borne in mind in the operation of nephrectomy, since, if too much traction is made on the pedicle, not only the vein, but a portion of the vena cava may be drawn into the ligature, as shown