FACIAL NEBVE—AUDITOBY NEBVE 811 long buccal branch of the fifth, and then breaks into twigs, which end in the buccinator and orbicularis oris. [b) The supramandibular branch, after escaping from the parotid gland, crosses the lower part of the masseter muscle, a little way above the angle of the lower jaw, and passes forwards, under cover of the risorius and the depressors of the lower lip, as far as the middle line. It communicates with the buccal and inframandibular branches of the facial, and with the mental branch of the man- dibular nerve. It supplies the risorius, the depressor anguli oris, the depressor labii inferioris, and the levator menti. (c) The inframandibular branch becomes superficial at the lower margin of the parotid gland, and runs obliquely downwards and forwards, under cover of the platysma, across the side and front of the neck. It forms one or more communi- cating loops, near its commencement, with the great auricular nerve, and longer loops, lower down, with the superficial cervical nerve. It supplies the platysma myoides. EIGHTH OE AUDITOEY NERVE The auditory nerve appears at the lower border of the pons (superficial origin), immediately external to the facial nerve. It arises by two roots, a lateral and a mesial. These roots embrace the restiform body, the lateral root being external, and the mesial root internal to that body (fig.-450). It is very generally agreed that the lateral root (superficial, dorsal, inferior, or posterior root) is continuous with the cochlear nerve, and is the true nerve of hearing ; while the mesial root (deep, ventral, superior, or anterior root) is continued into the vestibular nerve, and is concerned in the maintenance of equilibrium. The nuclei in connection with these roots will be first described. The small-celled or chief nucleus is superficially placed in the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is largest in the region of the stri^ medullares, in which situation it appears in coronal sections as a triangular grey mass, which reaches the middle line. It extends forwards from this ;'point as far as the abducens nucleus and backwards for about an equal distance. Both in front and behind