1210 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY radialis inclicis arteries, metacarpal bone of the thumb, with the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis and trapezimn. Beneath the central part of the palmar fascia are the superficial arch and its digital branches, the ulnar and median nerves with their branches, the flexors, superficial and deep, with their synovial sheath, and the lumbricales ; then a layer of connective tissue (the only structure which prevents matter pent in by the palmar fascia from making its way back out of the dorsum), the deep arch, the interossei, and the metacarpal bones. In the hypothenar eminence under the fascia are part of the ulnar artery and nerve, the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, the opponens, the deep branch of the ulnar artery and nerve, and the fifth metacarpal bone. The back of the wrist and hand.—The posterior annular ligament has already been described Avith the anterior. On the outer side is the so-called ' snuft'-box space ' (tahaticre anatomique of Cloquet), a triangular hollow, bounded towards the radius by the two first extensors of the thumb, and towards the ulna by the extensor secundi internodii. The scaphoid and trapezium, with their dorsal liga- ments, form the floor. In the roof lie the radial vein and branches of the radial nerve. More deeply is the artery following a line from the apex of the styloid pro- cess to the back of the interosseous space. The different tendons have already been given. Between the first two metacarpal bones is the first dorsal interosseous muscle, which forms .a fleshy projection against the radial side of the index meta- carpal, Avhen the thumb and index are pressed together. On its palmar aspect is the adductor pollicis. Wasting of the former muscle is a ready indication of injury or disease of the ulnar nerve. THE LOWER EXTREMITY THE THIGH , Bony landmarks.—Many of these, such as the anterior superior spine, the spine' of the pubes, have already been mentioned. Trochanter major.—This most valuable landmark is most prominent when thei limb is rotated inwards or adducted ; it lies at the bottom of a depression whenth€ femur is everted. The only structures of importance between it and the skin ar€| the expanded insertion of the gluteus maximus and the bursa beneath the muscleij This is often multilocular. The top of the great trochanter is about three-quarterH of an inch below the level of the femoral head. Nelaton's line.—This most useful guide is a line drawn from the anterioi superior spine to the most prominent part of the tuberosity of the ischium. Ir normal limbs, the top of the great trochanter just touches this line. In dislocation ,: fractures of the neck, and in wasting of the neck as in osteo-arthritis, the relatior of the trochanter to Nelaton's line becomes altered. '. The top of the great trochanter is a guide in Mr. Adams's operation for divisioi' of the neck of the femur, the puncture being made and the saw entered one inci above and about one inch in front of this point. 1 Bryant's triangle.—Mr. Bryant makes use of the following in deciding th<j position of the great trochanter. The patient being flat on his back, (1) a lint j is dropped vertically on to the couch from the anterior superior spine; (2) fron \ the top of the great trochanter a straight line in the long axis of the thigh is drawn t( j meet the first; (3) to complete the triangle, a line is draAvn from the anterio