THE ELBOW JOINT 241 The arterial supply is derived from each of the vessels forming the free mastomosis romid the elbow, and there is also a special branch to the front and )uter side of the joint from the brachial artery, and the arterial branch to the hrachialis anticus also feeds the front of the joint. I The nerve-supply comes from the musculo-cutaneous chiefly ; the ulna, median, knd musculo-spiral also give filaments to the joint. ! The movements permitted at the elbow are those of a true hinge joint, viz. jlexion and extension. These movements are oblique, so that the forearm is I nclined inwards in flexion, and outwards in extension ; they are limited by the iontact respectively of the coronoid and olecranon processes of the ulna with their 3orresponding fossae on the humerus, and their extent is determined by the relative proportion between the length of the processes and depth of the foss« which I receive them, rather than by the tension of the ligaments, or the bulk of the soft barts over them. The anterior and posterior portions of the capsule, together with |;he corresponding portions of the lateral ligament, are not put on stretch during lexion and extension ; but, although they may assist in checking the velocity, and ihus prevent undue force of impact, they do not control or determine the extent of ihese movements. The limit of extension is reached when the ulna is nearly in a straight line with the humerus ; and the limit of flexion when the ulna describes an angle of from 30° to 40° with the humerus. The obliquity of these movements is due to the outward inclination of the iipper and back part of the trochlear surface, and the greater prominence of the inner lip of the trochlea below ; thus the plane of motion is directed from behind inwards and forwards, and carries the hand towards the middle third of the 3lavicle. The obliquity of the joint, the inward twist of the shaft of the humerus, ind the backward direction of its head, all tend to bring the hand towards the mid line, under the immediate observation of the eye, either for defence, employ- jment, or nourishment. This is in striking contrast to the lower limb, where the I Idirection of the foot diverges from the median axis of the trunk, thus preventing awkwardness in locomotion. In flexion and extension, the cup-like depression of the radial head glides upon the capitellum, and the inner margin of the radial head travels in the groove between the capitellum and the trochlea. This allows the radius to rotate upon the humerus while following the ulna in all its movements. In full extension and supination, the head of the radius is barely In contact with the inferior surface of the capitellum, and projects so much back- 'vards that its posterior margin can be felt as a prominence at the back of the elbow. In full flexion the anterior edge of the radial head is received into, and (jhecked against, the depression above the capitellum ; while in mid-flexion the cup-like depression is fairly received upon the capitellum, and in this position, the radius being more completely steadied by the humerus than in any other, pronation and supination take place most perfectly. j 5. THE UNION OF THE RADIUS WITH THE ULNA The radius is firmly united to the ulna by two joints, and an intermediate fibrous union, viz.— I {a) The superior radio-ulnar,—whereat the head of the radius rotates within |the lesser sigmoid cavity and orbicular ligament. I (h) The union of the shafts,—the mid radio-ulnar union. ! (c) The inferior radio-ulnar,—whereat the lower end of the radius rolls round 'the head of the ulna. R