ABCHES OF THE FOOT 1247 (3) Calcaneo-cuboid ligaments, {a) Long; (b) short.—These ligaments are the main support of the outer, firm, and less elastic part of the longitudinal arch. (4) Tibialis posticus.—The reason of this muscle having so many insertions below is to brace together the tarsal bones, and to prevent their separation when, in treading, the elastic anterior pillar tends to widen out. Of these numerous offsets, that to the scaphoid is the most important. Thus it strengthens the calcaneo- scaphoid ligament by blending with it, and thus supports the arch at a trying time. By coming into action when the heel is raised (fig. 788), this tendon helps the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament to support the head of the astragalus, and to maintain the arch of the foot when the weight of the body is thrown forward on to the instep. In other words, the tibialis posticus comes into play just when the heaviest of its duties is devolving upon this ligament, viz. when the heel is being raised, I and the body-weight is being thrown over the instep on to the opposite foot. (5) Peroneus longus.—This raises the outer pillar, and steadies the outer side of the arch. Further, by its strong process attached to the first metatarsal bone (fig. 789), it keeps the great toe strapped down firmly against the ground; thus, keeping down the anterior pillar of the longitudinal arch, it aids the firmness of the tread (Humphry). (6) Tibialis anticus.—This braces up the keystone of the arch. Thus, by keeping up the internal cuneiform, it maintains the scaphoid, and so indirectly the astragalus, in situ. Fig. 790 is introduced here to remind the student of the arrangement of the j superficial lymphatics of the lower extremity. I Fig. 791 shows the distribution of the superficial nerves on both aspects of the limb. THE REGIONS OF THE ABDOMEN By WILLIAM ANDEESON, F.R.C.S. As the plan of segmenting the ventral surface of the abdomen by means of two i horizontal, and two vertical or nearly vertical lines, has survived the test of time, it might be assumed that it is a resource of some practical value to the physician and surgeon. It is, however, a curious fact that, although the nine historical regions of the abdomen have been universally accepted in British and continental schools for at least forty years, and may be traced back to a very much more remote period, no attempt has ever been made to secure uniformity m the plan of their dehmitation, but almost every anatomical writer has elected to follow a i system of his own, and, consequently, there are at the present moment at least fourteen different schemes in our recognised text-books. There is httle doubt that it were better to abandon altogether the pretence of a regional subdivision than to employ terms which have no scientific meaning, but it may be hoped that some accord will soon be arrived at. ^ xl, ? • / ? 1 On analysing the various systems it will be seen that the ^^^^^.^r hoMcd liMe may be drawn either (1) between the ninth costal cartilages of the two sides-the precise part of the cartilage, which forms about two mches of the border of the thorax, being usually left undefined (Gray, Todd, Turner Holden, Heath, Shield, Tillaux); (2) between the tenth costal cartilages (Macahster, Aitken, Joessel); between the lowest points of the thoramc border, usually the eleventh costal cartilage (Quain, Cunningham, Henle); or (3 on a level with the tips of the twelfth ribs (Hyrtl, Rudinger). The loicer honzontal hue may be drawn