6B THE MAXILLA the ethmoid, the maxillary process of the inferior turbinal, and a small portion of the lachrymal bone. Even when these bones are m situ, the nasal orifice is very irregular in shape, and requires the mucous membrane to form the definite rounded aperture (or apertures, for they are often niultiple) known as the opening of the antrum. The cavity of the antrum varies considerably in size and shape. In the young it is small and the walls are thick : as life advances, the antrum enlarges at the expense of its walls, and in old age they are often of extreme tenuity ; occasionally the cavity extends into the substance of the malar bone. The floor of the antrum is, as a rule, very uneven, due to prominences corresponding to the roots of the molar teeth. In most cases the bone separating the teeth from the antrum is very thin, and not rarely the roots project uncovered into it. The teeth which come into closest relationship with the antrum are the first and second molars, but the sockets of any of the teeth lodged in the maxilla may, under diseased conditions, communicate with it. Although, as a rule, the cavity of the antrum is single, yet specimens occasionally come to hand in which it is divided by bony septa into chambers, and it is far from uncommon to find it divided into recesses by bony processes. In many maxillae, the roof of the antrum presents near its anterior aspect what appears to be a thick rib of bone ; this is hollow and corresponds to the infraorbital canal. The most satisfactory method of studying the relation of the bones closing in the base of the antrum is to cut away the outer wall of the cavity (see fig. 84). Articulations.—The maxilla articulates with its fellow, and with the frontal, nasal, lachrymal, ethmoid, palate, vomer, malar and inferior turbinal bones. Occa- FiG. 73.—Ossification of the Maxilla. PRE-MAXILLARY PORTION Outer view. Inferior view. Inner view. sionally it articulates with the greater wing, and less frequently with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. The muscles attached to it are mainly those known as muscles of expression : — Compressor naris. Levator anguli oris. Orbicularis palpebrarum. Inferior oblique. Orbicularis oris. Depressor al^e nasi. Levator labii superior proprius. Buccinator. Levator labii superioris alseque nasi. Internal pterygoid. Masseter. Blood-supply.—The maxilla is a very vascular bone, and its arteries are nume- rous and large. They are derived from the infraorbital, alveolar, descending palatine, naso-palatine, ethmoidal, frontal, nasal, and facial branches. Ossification.—The maxilla arises from four centres which are deposited in membrane. The various centres may be termed pre-maxillary, maxillary, malar, and