VESIGULA SEMINALIS 1067 ^''^i two or more short lateral branches. It is related in front to the posterior wall ""^oi the bladder, and by its upper extremity overlaps the ureter; jjosteriorly it is ■ bovered by the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum, for a short distance above ; and ^ V below this point it lies in direct contact with the front of the rectum, and external ■^^ tt b the ampulla of the vas deferens. It becomes constricted at its junction with P^l^ the vas. Structurally it consists of a fibrous external coat; a middle muscular 3oat in two layers, external longitudinal and internal transverse; and an internal nucous membrane, plicated, yellowish brown in colour, and lined with cylindrical epithelium. It is invested, together with the ampulla of the vas, by a kind of jheath of fibrous tissue and by a layer of smooth muscular fibres which is pro- Dably accessory in function to the contractile element of the proper wall of the ubes. calili lilt ■0 Fig. 625.—Vas Deferens and Vesicula Seminalis dissected. (After Sappey.) DIVERTICULA DIVERTICULA SACCULI OF AMPULLA OF VAS JUNCTION OF VAS AND VESICUiA EJACULATORY DUCT The EJACULATORY DUCT, formed on each side by the union of the vas deferens id vesicula seminalis, is an infundibuliform tube about three-quarters of an inch length, and about an eighth of an inch in width above, narrowing to one-third that size below, while the lumen near its opening is not more than one-fiftieth of 'uWt ^^^^ diameter. The two ducts converge slightly as they descend, and finally, ssing behind the so-called ' middle lobe,' the hinder part of the basal muscular g of the prostate (page 1060), pierce the prostatic fissure and open on to the rumontanum on either side of the orifice of the sinus pocularis (fig. 624). Vessels and Nerves of the testicle and its appendag^es.—The testicle is supplied th blood by the spermatic and deferential arteries, the two vessels anastomosing th each other and with the scrotal arteries at the lower extremity of the gland, e corresponding veins, spermatic and deferential, form like communications and up in two separate groups. The spermatic veins, large and imperfectly valved,