THE SKELETON 62 and rough portions is the maxillary fissure for the reception of the thin maxillary process on the anterior border of the vertical plate of the palate bone. In the angle between this surface and the nasal process is a deep groove converted by the lachrymal and inferior turbinal into the nasal duct. Running backwards from the anterior margin is the inferior turbinated crest vhich articulates with the lowest turbinal bone. The surface above the crest forms part of the middle meatus, and the surface below belongs to the inferior meatus of the nose, and is directly continuous with the superior surface of the palatine process. Near its anterior border is the orifice of the anterior palatine canal. The inferior or palatine surface is formed by the palatine process and the alveolar border. The palatine process forms the anterior part of the roof of the mouth. It is concave, rough, and pitted with foramina for vessels. Where it joins the alveolar border a groove (sometimes a canal) exists for the anterior palatine nerve and posterior palatine vessels. When the bones of opposite sides are placed in apposition the palatine fossa is formed ; running outwards from this to the space between the second incisor and canine tooth, the maxillo-premaxillary suture can be detected in young bones. The posterior border articulates with the horizontal process of the palate bone, whilst the median border joins its fellow to form, above, a prominent crest upon which the vomer is received. The anterior palatine fossa is situated in the meso-palatine suture near its anterior termination. In its typical form the fossa contains four passages : two are small and disposed one behind the other exactly in the suture ; these are the foramina of Scarpa for the naso-palatine nerves, the left nerve emerging from the anterior foramen. The lateral and larger orifices diverge to open on each side of the crest. They are called Stenson's canals, and lodge recesses of the nasal mucous membrane and remnants of Jacobson's organs. The alveolar ridge forms the outer limit of this surface ; it is crescentic in shape, spongy in texture, and presents cavities in which teeth are lodged. When the teeth are complete in number, eight cavities are present; of these the pit for the canine tooth is the deepest, those for the molars are the widest and present subdivisions. Along the outer aspect of the alveolar border the buccinator arises, as far forward as the first molar tooth. The nasal process is somewhat triangular, standing vertically from the nasal angle of the maxilla. Its outer surface gives attachment to the orbicularis 'palpebrarum, the tendo octdi, and the levator labii supeiioris alceque nasi. The internal surface forms one of the lateral boundaries of the nasal fossa. Superiorly it articulates with the frontal; below this is the superior turbinated crest for articulation with the middle turbinal. The space between this and the inferior turbinated crest forms part of the middle meatus. The anterior border articulates with the nasal bone; the posterior is thick and vertically grooved to form part of the nasal duct. The inner margin of this groove articulates with the lachrymal ]>one. The point where the outer margin of the groove joins the orbital plate is indicated by the lachrymal tubercle. The malar process is rough and triangular, and forms the summit of the ridge of bone separating the facial and zygomatic surfaces. It articulates with the malar bone, and from its inferior angle a few fibres of the masseter take origin. The antrum or maxillary sinus, as the air-chamber occupying the body of the bone is called, is somewhat pyramidal in shape ; the base being represented by the nasal or internal surface, and the apex corresponding to the malar process. In addition to these it has four walls : the superior is formed by the orbital plate, and the inferior by the alveolar ridge. The anterior wall corresponds to the facial surface of the maxilla, and the posterior is formed by the zygomatic surface. The inner boundary or base presents a very irregular orifice at its posterior part; this is partially filled in by the vertical plate of the palate bone, the uncinate process of