SECTION X ON SURGICAL AND OPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY By W. H. a. JACOBSON, M.A., M.B., M.Ch.Oxon, F.R.C.S. ASSISTANT SURGEON, GUY'S HOSPITAL; LECTURER ON ANATOMY IN THE MEDICAL SCHOOL. SUPERFICIAL ANATOMY OF THE HEAD AND NECK THE HEAD AND FACE Bony landmarks.—These should be studied with the aid of a skull, as well as on he living subject. In the middle line behind is the external occipital protuberance, )r inion, the thickest part of the vault, and corresponding internally with the jneeting-point of six sinuses. From this point the nuchal lines pass out towards ihe mastoid processes, and indicate the course of the lateral sinuses, which, after "unning horizontally outwards, turn downwards in the mastoid bone. About two nches and three-quarters above the external occipital protuberance is the lambda, pr meeting of the coronal and lambdoidal sutures (posterior fontanelle), small ind triradiate in shape (fig. 660). The point of junction of the lambdoidal and quamous sutures, the asterion, is placed about three-quarters of an inch behind ind half an inch above the upper part of the posterior border of the mastoid ifig. 661). The bregma, or junction of the coronal, sagittal, and, in early life, the rental suture (anterior fontanelle, large and lozenge-shaped), lies just in front of ihe centre of a line drawn transversely over the cranial vault from one external jiuditory meatus to the other (fig. 661). The pterion, or junction of the frontal, iiarietal, temporal, and sphenoid bones, lies in the zygomatic fossa, one and a half 0 two inches behind the external angular process of the frontal, and about the ame distance above the zygoma (fig. 661). This spot also gives the position of he trunk and the anterior and larger division of the middle meningeal artery. The zygoma can be traced backwards to its roots in front of the ear, while from Lts anterior extremity the finger, carried upwards along the outline of the malar, itraces the temporal ridge along the side of the skull which marks the upper limit of the temporal fossa, and the attachments of the temporal muscle and fascia. In the temporal fossa lie the muscle, and the deep temporal vessels and perves. Above the zygoma can be felt the contraction of the temporal; and below, jfchat of the masseter muscle; the former less distinctly owing to its covering of fascia, attached below by two layers to the upper border of the zygoma. In the zygomatic fossa, lying inside the zygoma, are the lower part of the temporal, and