566 THE ARTERIES an inch from its origin, and just before the ulnar artery is crossed by the median nerve. It passes backwards and downwards between the flexor longus pollicis and the flexor profundus digitorum, towards the triangular interval bounded by the upper border of the interosseous membrane, the oblique ligament, and the outer border of the ulna, where it divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. [a) The anterior interosseous artery, smaller than the posterior, but apparently the direct continuation of the common trunk, courses downwards in front of the interosseous membrane, upon which it lies under cover of the overlapping edges of the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, to the upper border of the pronator quadratus, where it terminates in two branches, an anterior terminal and posterior terminal. The anterior interosseous artery is accompanied by two veins and by the deep branch of the median nerve which lies to its radial side. The artery is bound down to the interosseous membrane by aponeurotic fibres. The branches of the anterior interosseous artery are :—(i) The arteriaj conies nervi mediani—or the median artery as it is sometimes shortly called—is ai long slender vessel, which arises from the anterior interosseous immediately after the latter is given off from the common trunk. It passes forwards between thej flexor profundus digitorum and the flexor longus pollicis to the median nerve, with which it descends beneath the annular ligament into the palm, and when of large! size sometimes enters into the formation of the superficial palmar arch. At times the artery arises from the common interosseous before its division, (ii) Musculai: branches supply the flexor longus pollicis, flexor profundus digitorum, and pronatci; quadratus, and the extensor muscles of the thumb, which they reach by passing! backwards through the interosseous membrane, (iii) The nutrient arteries of the radius and ulna are usually derived from this vessel, (iv) The anterior termina,' and smaller division of the anterior interosseous artery, sometimes called th( anterior communicating, passes either in front of or behind the pronator quadratus; but in either case in front of the interosseous membrane, and anastomoses wit! the anterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries, and with the recur rent branches from the deep palmar arch, forming the so-called anterior carpa rete. (v) The posterior terminal and larger division pierces the interosseou membrane, and continues its course downwards behind the interosseous membrane- under cover of the extensor muscles, to the back of the wrist, where it endii by anastomosing with the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulna arteries, forming the so-called posterior carpal rete. This branch anastomoses! as soon as it pierces the interosseous membrane, with the posterior interosseou artery. {h) The posterior interosseous artery, the larger division of the commo] interosseous, turns backwards through the triangular interval bounded by th interosseous membrane below, the oblique ligament above, and the ulna internall} and, emerging at the back of the forearm between the extensor ossis metacarpi polhci and the supinator brevis, under cover of the superficial extensors of the forearn: descends between the superficial and the deep muscles, crossing in this course th extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, the extensor primi internodii pollicis, the extenso secundi internodii pollicis, and the indicator (fig. 353). It anastomoses at th lower border of this muscle with the anterior interosseous, or with the posteric branch of the anterior interosseous which here, as above described, has perforate the interosseous membrane. j J'^'fs It gives off the following branches :—(i) The interosseous recurrent, or pos % terior interosseous recurrent (fig. 353), arises from the posterior interosseous as th| i-*clei latter emerges from beneath the supinator brevis. It runs upwards between the anc( j neus and supinator brevis, usually under cover of the former, to the interval betwee I