THE ABTICULATIONS 244 to the margin of the radius, separating the sigmoid cavity from the articul surface for the radio-carpal joint, while its apex is fixed from the front to the bai of the fossa at the base of the styloid ^Drocess of the ulna. It gradually ai uniformly diminishes in width from base to apex, becoming rounded where it fixed to the ulna ; it is joined by fibres of the internal lateral ligament of the wris It is about three-eighths of an inch (1 cm.) wide, and the same from base to ape: thicker at the circumference than at the centre; smooth and concave above adapt itself to the ulna, and smooth and slightly concave below to fit over t] cuneiform bone. Its anterior and posterior borders are united to the anteri and posterior radio-ulnar and radio-carpal ligaments. It is the most importa: structure in the inferior radio-carpal articulation, as it is a very firm bond union between the lower ends of the bones, and serves to limit their movemeu upon one another more than any other structure in either the upper or low radio-ulnar joints. Its structure is fibrous at the circumference, while at t] centre there is a preponderance of cells. It differs from all other fibrd-cartilag in entering into two distinct articulations; and separates entirely the synovi membrane of the radio-ulnar joint from that of the wrist. The anterior radio-ulnar ligament (fig. 231) is attached by one end to t] anterior edge of the sigmoid cavity of the radius, and by the other to the roui bone above the articular surface of the ulna as far inwards as the notch, as well into the anterior margin of the triangular cartilage from base to apex. The posterior radio-ulnar ligament (fig. 232) is similarly attached to the po terior margin of the sigmoid cavity at one end, and by the other to the rou< bone above the articular surface of the extremity of the ulna as far inwards as t] groove for the flexor carpi ulnaris, with the sheath of which it is connected, ai also into the whole length of the posterior margin of the triangular fibro-cartilac Both the radio-ulnar ligaments consist of thin, almost scattered, fibres, but tb( serve to form a capsule for the support and protection of the synovial membrane. The lower end of the interosseous membrane extends between the ulna ai radius immediately above their points of contact. Transverse fibres between t] two bones form a sort of arch above the concave articular facet of the radii and, joining the anterior and posterior radio-ulnar ligaments, complete the capsii of the inferior radio-ulnar joint. The synovial membrane,- sometimes called the membrana sacciformis, is lar and loose in proportion to the size of the joint. It is not only interposed betwe( the radial and ulnar articular surfaces, but lines the terminal articular surface the ulna and the upper surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage. The arterial supply is derived from the anterior interosseous artery, and branch of the anterior carpal arch. The nerve-supply comes from the anterior interosseous of the median, and tl posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral. The movements of the radius.—The upper end of the radius rotates arom an axis drawn through its own head and neck within the collar formed by the less sigmoid cavity and the orbicular ligament, while the lower end rolls round t head of the ulna, being retained in position by the triangular ligament. This rotati( is called proiiation when the radius from a position nearly parallel to the uli turns inwards so as to lie obliquely across it; and supination when the radius tur back again from within outwards, so as to uncross and lie nearly parallel with t ulna. In these movements, the radius carries with it the hand, which rotates on ? axis passing a little to the inner side of the middle line ; thus, the hand when pi nated, lies with its dorsum upwards, as in playing the piano, while when supinatc the palm lies upwards—the attitude of a beggar asking alms. Ward thus express the relations of the two extremities of the radius in pronation and supination : ' T head of the radius is so disposed in relation to the sigmoid cavity at the lower ei