1075 THE UBETHBA The mucous membrane resembles that of the prostatic urethra in its epithelium, Irectile layer, and muscularis, but surrounding these structures is a strong annular and of unstriped muscle continuous with the fibres of the prostate and forming sphincter of considerable power. This in turn is supported by the striated fibres f the deep transversus perin^i. The glands of the mucous membrane, simple nd racemose, form suite with those of the anterior wall of the prostatic canal. The spongy portion extending to the extremity of the penis presents two dilata- } ons with an intermediate portion of narrow but uniform dimensions. The posterior xpansion (pars bulbosa) lies in the bulb, and is about an inch in length ; the anterior •ossa navicularis) is of nearly the same extent, and is situated within the glans. 'he penile angle, formed where the flaccid organ falls from the point of suspension fc the pubic region, lies about two inches in front of the superficial triangular Igament; and the portion of the canal behind this is almost horizontal in direction, at with a slight upward concavity (fig. 617). The mucous membrane of the spongy urethra resembles that of the more osterior part of the canal in possessing a laminated epithelium, a muscularis lucosae with fibres longitudinally arranged, and an intermediate layer of erectile ssue. There is, however, at itie distal extremity an inflexion of the integumental )vering of the gians for a distance of about a quarter of an inch, and the tie of demarcation between the cutaneous and mucous structures is well defined, he external meatus is represented by a vertical slit about a quarter of an inch in ingth, and is the least dilatable part of the canal; hence in urethral operations ! is sometimes necessary to enlarge it by incision. ' An examination of the mucous surface will show a number of orifices directed irwards, the lacunae (sometimes called ' glands of Littre '), connected with simple fUicular invaginations of various depth. One of the number, termed the lacuna agna, usually found upon the dorsal wall about an inch from the external eatus, is of large size, and may arrest the point of a small instrument during 'btheterism. In addition to these are many simple and compound mucous glands, ich as appear in the prostatic portion of the canal; and the ducts of Cowper's ands open into the anterior portion of the bulb on the ventral wall, j! As already mentioned, the collapsed urethra is represented by a fissure. This the glans penis is vertical in direction. A short horizontal branch is superadded the upper end of the fossa navicularis, giving the fissure the aspect of an verted T. Above this point the horizontal limb progressively elongates, while the 'I'tical limb shortens until the former alone is left, and the rest of the spongy rethra is represented by a transverse fissure. In the membranous segment the tssure is usually stellate, while in the prostatic region the presence of the colliculus Ives it the U-like form already described. This progressive change of shape volves a kind of rifling of the tube, and probably accounts for the spiral form of e normal stream of urine. The muscularis mucosae appears to be capable of a peculiar vermicular contrac- tu by which a catheter left within the urethra is gradually expelled, and an 1 ample is known in which an elastic instrument carelessly tied in situ found its |iy during the night, in the reverse direction, into the bladder, and formed the icleus of a calculus. The female urethra is described on page 1079. 3 z 2