METEXCEPHALON 761 extraYentricnlar portion certain fissures, and the elevated portions which these fissures map out, require notice. Fissures.—Commencing in front, we find the anterior fissure (fissura longitu- dinalis anterior) occupying the middle line. It is shallow below, where it is almost separated from the anterior longitudinal fissure of the cord by the decussation of the pyramids; deeper above, where it separates the pyramids of opposite sides. Above, it ends in a blind recess, under the margin of the pons, the foramen caecum k\ posterius, or foramen caecum of Vicq d'Azyr. External to the anterior fissure, we f ■■ find the sulcus lateralis ventralis; the latter intervenes between the pyramid and \ '' the olive above, and extends downwards immediately in front of the olive and the I lateral column. It is joined below the ohve by the postolivary sulcus. From its upper part, a fissure (sulcus parapyramidalis) passes downwards and inwards to join the anterior fissure. On the posterior surface of the medulla we find the posterior fissure (fissura longitudinalis posterior) occup^'ing the middle hne. It is continuous below Avith the posterior fissure of the spinal cord, and ends above at the fourth ventricle. External to this we find the sulcus paramedianus dorsalis, and more externally the sulcus lateralis dorsalis. The former of these two fissures ends above at the apex of the clava, the latter extends for some distance further upwards. To recapitulate, the fissures of the medulla, taken in order from before backwards, are as follow : fissura longitudinahs anterior, sulcus parapyramidalis, sulcus lateralis ventralis, sulcus postolivaris, sulcus lateralis dorsalis, sulcus paramedianus dorsalis, fissura longitudinalis posterior. As will be seen from the previous description, however, I this summary applies only to the upper or proximal part of the medulla ; in the I distal part the fissures become reduced in number owing to some of them becoming confluent with others. Certain of the above-mentioned fissures divide the medulla into columns or areas corresponding, for the most part, to the columns of the cord. I Thus we have an anterior area between the anterior fissure and the sulcus lateralis ! ventralis, a lateral area between the last-named fissure and the sulcus lateralis dorsalis, and a posterior area between the sulcus lateralis dorsalis and the posterior fissure. The anterior area of the medulla is occupied, for the greater part of its extent, by the pyramidal bodies. These are a pair of prominences somewhat pyriform in outline, which lie on each side of the anterior median fissure. Their larger ends are directed upwards and abut against the pons where they become slightly constricted. Laterally, they are marked oft" by the sulci parapyramidales. Their apices are directed downwards and correspond to the decussation of the pyramids. The greater number of the fibres pass across at this point and make their way into I the lateral column of the opposite side of the cord (lateral pyramidal tract); a small bundle, however, of the outermost fibres of each pyramid runs downwards in the anterior column of the cord of the same side (anterior pyramidal tract). f The remainder of the anterior column is occupied by the funiculus anterior. I This is a triangular area of white substance which intervenes between the sulcus parapyramidalis and the sulcus laterahs ventralis. Its base is directed downwards, and is continuous with the anterior ground bundle of the anterior column of the cord. Its apex, directed upwards, is wedged in between the olivary and pyramidal I bodies. The progressive diminution of the tract when traced upwards is owing to 1 its fibres receding from the surface, being overlapped by the pyramidal body. I The lateral area of the medulla is narrow below, being formed by the contiiiua- ' tion of a portion only of the lateral column of the cord. Higher up it expands and presents : («) The olivary body and {h) the tubercle of Rolando. The lateral column fl is a band which passes upwards between the sulcus lateralis ventralis and the sulcus ' f lateralis dorsalis. Above, it passes behind the lower part of the olivary body, and here a greyish prominence, the grey tubercle of Rolando, comes to the surface. il