THE BADIO-CARPAL 247 gament, and, from the edge of the radius just behmd the lesser sigmoid fossa, to 16 cuneiform bone ; (ii) from the ridge and groove for the extensor secundi iternodii polHcis to the back of the semilunar and cuneiform bones; and (iii) from le groove for the radial extensors to the back of the scaphoid and semilunar. It : in relation with, and strengthened by, the extensor tendons which pass over it. The internal lateral lig^ament (fig. 232) is fan-shaped, with its apex above, at 16 styloid process of the ulna, to which it is attached on all sides, blending with 16 apex of the fibro-cartilage. Some of the fibres pass forwards and outwards to 16 base of the pisiform bone and to the inner part of the upper border of the iiterior annular ligament, where it is attached to the pisiform bone ; they form thick, rounded fasciculus on the front of the wrist. Other fibres descend vertically 3 the inner side of the cuneiform bone, and others again outwards to the dorsal arface of the cuneiform. The tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris is posterior D, and passes over, part of the fibres of the ligament. Fig. 232.—Posterior View of Wrist. I I Posterior radio-carpal ligament Capsule of earpo-meta- earpal joint of th.umb Posterior radio- ulnar ligament Internal lateral ligament of wrist The external lateral ligament (fig. 231) consists of fibres which radiate from ihe fore part and tip of the styloid process of the radius. Some pass downwards md inwards, in front, to the scaphoid and adjacent edge of the magnum ; others iownwards, a little forwards and inwards, to the tubercle of the scaphoid and ridge Df the trapezium ; and others downwards and outwards to the rough dorsal surface 3f the scaphoid. The fibres of this ligament are not so long and strong, nor do they radiate so much as those of the internal lateral ligament. It is in relation with the radial artery, and the extensor ossis metaca7yi and primi internodii 'poUicis, the artery separating the tendons from the ligament. The synovial membrane is extensive, but does not usually communicate with the synovial membrane of the inferior radio-ulnar joint, being shut out by the triangular cartilage. It is also shut out, in almost every instance, from that of the carpal joints by the interosseous ligaments between the first row of carpal bones. The styloid process of the radius is cartilage-covered internally, and forms part of the articular cavity, while that of the ulna does not.