THE ARTICULATIONS 198 between the borders of the transverse hgament and the margin of the facet oiij the odontoid, and is separated from the front sac by the atlanto-odontoid capsulaii Hgament. The arterial supply is from the vertebral artery, and the nerve-supply from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. Movements.—The chief and characteristic movement at these joints is th( rotation, in a nearly horizontal plane, of the collar formed by the atlas and trans verse ligament, round the odontoid process as a pivot, which is extensive enougl to allow of an all-round view without twisting the trunk. Partly on account o; its ligamentous attachments, and partly on account of the shape of the articulai surfaces, the cranium must be carried with the atlas in these movements. Th( rotation is checked by the ligaments passing from the axis to the occiput (checl; ligaments), and also by the atlanto-axoidean. Owing to the fact that the facets of both atlas and axis, which enter into the formation of the lateral atlanto axoidean articulations, are convex from before backwards, and have the articulai cartilage thicker in the centre than at the circumference, the motion is not quitt horizontal but slightly curvilinear. In the erect position, with the face lookini directly forward, the most convex portions of the articular surfaces are alone ii contact, there being a considerable interval between the edges ; during rotation therefore, the prominent portions of the condyles of the atlas descend upon those of the axis, diminishing the space between the bones, slackening the ligaments and thus increasing the amount of rotation, without sacrificing the security of tb joint in the central position. Besides rotation, forward and backward movements and some lateral flexioi are permitted between the atlas and axis, even to a greater extent than in most o the other vertebral joints. (c) The Ligaments uniting the Occiput and Axis ' The following ligaments unite bones not in contact, and are to be seen from thj interior of the canal after removing the posterior arches of axis and atlas am; posterior ring of the foramen magnum :— j The occipito-cervical or cervico-basilar ligament (figs. 197,198 and 199) consist; of a very strong band of fibres, connected below to the upper part of the body oi the third vertebra and lower part of the body of the axis as far as the root of th odontoid process. It is narrow below, but widens out as it ascends, to be fastenei; to the basilar groove of the occiput. Laterally, it is connected with the accessoFi fibres of the atlanto-axoidean capsule. It is really only the upward prolongatio]i of the posterior common ligament, some of the fibres of which run on to th; occipital bone without touching the axis, thus giving rise to two strata. It is ii! relation in front with the crucial ligament. \ The crucial ligament has been already described (see page 197). | The lateral occipito-odontoid or check ligaments (fig. 196 and 199) are tw< strong rounded cords, which extend from the sides of the apex of the odontoi(; process, transversely outwards to the inner edge of the anterior portion of th'i occipital condyles. They are to be seen immediately above the upper border of th^ transverse ligament, which they cross obliquely owing to its forward curve at it attachments to the atlas. Some of their fibres occasionally run across the middLl line from one check ligament to the other. At the odontoid process they art 1. The occipito-cervical. 2. The crucial. 3. Two lateral odontoid or check. 4. The central odontoid or suspensory.