1085 THE UTERUS either side between the two peritoneal lamina. Owing to this disposition of the sub- 3erous tissue, the whole of the cervix uteri may be amputated without encroaching ipon the peritoneal cavity. The muscular coat constitutes the greater part of the thickness of the organ. The arrangement of the fibres is very complex, but a fairly satisfactory division nto three layers may be demonstrated :—a thin outer layer, longitudinal in iirection, continuous with the muscular fibres of the oviducts, vagina, round, 3varian, and utero-sacral ligaments, and with the muscular expansion in the broad jligaments ; a middle layer, circular in direction, very thick, and intermingled with [large venous plexuses in the body of the uterus, the innermost strands forming [sphincteric rings around the os internum and around the orifices of the oviducts?; |ind a thin internal layer, longitudinal in the body, and producing the ridges of the irbor vit^e in the cervix. The mucous membrane of the body is smooth and pale, pierced by innumerable inbular glands, and lined with cylindrical ciliated epithelium. The ciliary motion |[S from within outwards. The mucous membrane of the cavity of the neck is Fig. 639.—The Beoad Ligament and its Contents, seen from the Front. (After Sappey.) PAROVARIUM AMPULLA OF FALLOPIAN TUBE FALLOPIAN TUBE EXTERNAL ANGLE OF UTERUS Anterior peritoneal lamina [hicker and is plicated in the manner already described; its epithelium is cili- i^ted down to the external opening, but there undergoes a transition into the quamous laminated epithelium which covers the intravaginal portion of the os. klany racemose mucous glands open into the furrows of the arbor vit^e, and these are iable to pathological changes which cause them to assume a vesicular character, \ hen they are sometimes known under the fanciful name of ovula Nabothi. Ligaments.—The so-called ligaments of the uterus are of two kinds, peritoneal md muscular. The peritoneal ligaments are six in number : two lateral, two anterior, and two 'osterior. The lateral or broad ligaments (fig. 639), called also alae vespertilionis from heir fancied resemblance to the wings of a bat, are formed by a duplicature of >eritoneum extending from the sides of the uterus and vagina transversely out- wards to the sides of the pelvis. The two layers of peritoneum are continuous above ^nd form the free border of the fold, but diverge laterally and below, where they )ass on to adjacent structures. Each ligament presents two surfaces and four