253 THE GABPO-METACABPAL JOINTS Bearing in mind the mobility of this medio-carpal joint and of the carpo- metacarpal, we see at once the reason for the radial and ulnar flexors and extensors I being prolonged down to their insertion into the base of the metacarpus, for they produce the combined effect of motion at each of the three transverse articulations : (1) at the wrist ; (2) at the medio-carpal ; (3) at the carpo-metacarpal joints. I 8. THE CAKPO-METACARPAL JOINTS These may be divided into two sets, namely :— (a) The carpo-metacarpal joints of the four inner fingers. (b) The carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb. The inferior surfaces of three of the bones of the second row of the carpus present a combined surface for the four inner metacarpal bones ; the trapezium presents a distinct and separate saddle-shaped surface for the base of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb. (a) The Foue Inner Caepo-metacaepal Joints CIsLSS.—Diartlirosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. These joints exist between the trapezium, trapezoid, magnum, and unciform bones above, and the four inner metacarpal bones below. The ligaments which unite them are, dorsal, palmar, and interosseous. The dorsal ligaments (fig. 234).—Three dorsal ligaments pass to the second metacarpal bone : one from each of the carpal bones with which it articulates, viz. the trapezium, trapezoid, and magnum. Two dorsal bands pass from the magnum to the third metacarpal bone. Two dorsal bands pass to the fourth bone : one from the unciform, and another from the magnum ; the latter is sometimes wanting. The fifth bone has only one band passing to it from the unciform. The palmar ligaments.—One strong band passes from the second metacarpal bone to the trapezium internal to the ridge for the annular ligament; it is covered by the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis. Three bands pass from the third metacarpal: one outwards to the trapezium, a middle one upwards to the magnum, and a third inwards over the fourth to reach the fifth metacarpal and the unciform bones. One ligament connects the fourth bone to the unciform. One ligament connects the fifth bone to the unciform, the fibres extending internally, and connecting the dorsal and palmar ligaments. The ligament to the fifth bone is strengthened in front by the prolonged fibres of the flexor carpi ulnaris and the strong inner slip of the ligament of the third metacarpal bone; and posteriorly, by the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. The interosseous ligament (fig. 235) is limited to one part of the articulation, and consists of short strong fibres connecting the contiguous angles of the unciform and magnum, and the third and fourth metacarpal bones towards their palmar aspect. There is, however, a thick strong ligament connecting the edge of the trapezium with the outer border of the base of the second metacarpal bone ; it helps j' to separate the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb from the common carpo- metacarpal joint, and to close in the radial side of the latter joint. The synovial membrane is a continuation of the medio-carpal joint; occa- sionally there is a separate membrane between the unciform and fourth and fifth metacarpal bones (fig. 235); while that between the fourth and magnum is lined by the synovial sac of the common joint.