788 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM I j Superficial and deep origins.—The point at which a cranial nerve emerges from the substance of the brain is called its superficial origin ; while the collection of nerve-cells to which its fibres can be followed is called its deep origin. It must be clearly understood, however, that the deep origin is only the proximate origin of the nerve, the real origin is in the cerebral cortex. For example, injuries to the lower portions of the ascending parietal and ascending frontal convolutions almost as surely paralyse the facial and hypoglossal nerves as if the nuclei of these nerves had been destroyed in the medulla. General distribution.—The olfactory, optic, and auditory nerves are exclusively nerves of special sense, and are distributed to the nose, the eye, and the ear, respec- j tively. Of the remaining nerves, some are motor, others are mixed. The motor j nerves are : the third, fourth, and sixth to the ocular muscles, the seventh to the ' platysma and to the superficial muscles of the face, and the twelfth to the muscles | of the tongue. The mixed are the fifth, which is chiefly sensory to the face, teeth, \ eye, external ear, and fore part of the scalp, but also motor to the muscles of masti- I cation; the ninth, which contains fibres for the special sense of taste, also ordinary | sensory and motor fibres ; the tenth which conveys sensory fibres to the external j ear, and both motor and sensory fibres to the pharynx, larynx, heart, lungs, . trachea, oesophagus, and stomach; and the eleventh, which divides into a spinal part, wholly motor, destined for the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscles, and a mixed or accessory part which joins the tenth. \ In the following pages the course of each nerve is described in order from its so-called deep origin to its peripheral distribution ; the ultimate connection with the cortex is described in the anatomy of the brain. An exception is made, however, ; in the case of the olfactory and optic nerves, the cerebral connections of which j are described in this place. j FIKST OR OLFACTORY NERVES j j The grey filaments, about twenty to thirty in number, which arise from the ; under surface of the olfactory bulb, together constitute, as above noticed, the olfactory or first nerve; the olfactory tract and bulb, formerly described as the first nerve, being in reality a part of the brain. It will be convenient to describe the tract and bulb first, and then to take the nerves at the point where they appear on the surface of the bulb, and trace them to their central origin. The peripheral dis- j tribution will be afterwards described. The olfactory tract is an elongated body, | triangular in coronal section. It is covered at its anterior end by a cap of grey i matter, the olfactory bulb. Both tract and bulb occupy the olfactory sulcus on I the orbital surface of the frontal lobe. In the natural position the tract rests upon | the upper surface of the sphenoid bone, in front of the optic grooA'e, while the bulb j is in contact with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The olfactory tract j contains in its interior a strand of connective tissue, which occupies the position j of the obliterated ventricular cavity (page 724); above this the tract is formed by ! grey matter, the cortex of the tract. The latter is continuous with the cerebral j cortex, along the inner side of the olfactory sulcus, and also with the small trans- | verse convolution which closes in that sulcus posteriorly. The inferior surface of i the tract, including the internal and external angles, is covered by white matter, j the component fibres of which run in a sagittal direction. The roots of the { olfactory tract are the direct continuations of this white matter. Three roots are ; usually described, an external and an internal white root, and a middle or grey root, j The external root is the largest and most important of these. It passes along the i outer boundary of the anterior perforated space to the temporal lobe, and ends in \ the amygdaloid nucleus and the adjacent part of the cortex. The middle root j passes backwards and upwards under cover of the tuber olfactorium, a greyish