695 LYMPHATICS OF UPPER EXTREMITY the shoulder, in the axillary lymphatic glands. They communicate with the superficial lymphatics at the wrist. 2. The deep lymphatic glands.—A few small glands are occasionally found in the course of the lymphatic vessels accompanying the arteries of the forearm, and, more often, a few in the course of those accompanying the brachial artery. But the first important set of deep glands is met with in the axilla. The axillary glands are numerous and of large size. They are about twelve in number. They are arranged in four chief sets—a median set, three or more in number, situated along the course of the axillary artery and vein (axillary glands proper); an inner or anterior set, four or five in number, situated below the greater pectoral muscles in the course of the long thoracic artery, on the outer surface of the serratus magnus (pectoral glands) ; a posterior or external set, usually two in number, situated along the course of the subscapular artery, under cover of the latissimus dorsi (subscapular glands); and a superior set, usually two in number, situated just below the clavicle close to the cephalic vein, upon the costo-coracoid membrane in the fossa beneath the pectoralis major and deltoid (subclavian or infraclavicular glands). The axillary glands proper, or the glands along the course of the axillary artery and vein, receive the larger number of lymphatics from the arm. The pectoral glands receive the lymphatics from the mammary gland, the side of the chest, and the integument of the upper portion of the abdominal wall. The subscapular glands receive the lymphatics from the integuments of the back. The infraclavicular glands receive the lymphatics from the outer part of the arm and integuments covering the deltoid. They communicate, above with the cervical lymphatics, and below with the other glands in the axilla. The efferent vessels from all these glands run upwards along the subclavian vein, and enter the neck either as four , distinct trunks, or as a single trunk (the axillary lymphatic trunk), and terminate i on the left side in the thoracic duct, and on the right side in the right lymphatic duct. The communication between the glands in the axilla is very free. Thus, in I secondary infiltration following carcinoma of the breast, although the pectoral glands may at first be alone aftected, the remaining sets generally become also involved. THE LYMPHATICS OF THE THORAX The lymphatics of the thorax may be divided into the parietal, which ramify in the thoracic walls ; and the visceral, which receive the lymph from the thoracic viscera. The thoracic duct, which conveys the lymph from the lower extremities and from the greater part of the abdomen, passes through the posterior mediastinum on its way to the confluence of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins at the root of the neck, and is described here with the lymphatics of the thorax. I 1. THE PARIETAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE THORAX I 1. The parietal lymphatic vessels are divided into the superficial and the deep. I The superficial parietal lymphatics ramify beneath the integuments, over the i pectoralis major in front, the serratus magnus laterally, and the trapezius and