672 THE VEINS the psoas on the sides of the bodies of the vertebra in company with the lumbar arteries and branches of the sympathetic nerve, and end in the inferior vena cava on its posterior aspect. The left veins are longer than the right, and pass behind the aorta. (6) The phrenic veins, or inferior phrenic veins as they are sometimes called, follow the course of the phrenic arteries: the right opens into the vena cava direct; the left into the suprarenal, the left renal, or the vena cava. (7) The hepatic veins, the largest tributaries of the vena cava, return the blood from the liver. Commencing in the substance of the liver (see Liver), they converge as they approach its posterior surface, and unite to form two or three large branches, which open into the vena cava as it lies in the groove or canal in that organ. Some smaller vessels from the lobulus Spigelii, and other parts of the liver in the neighbourhood of the caval groove, open directly into the vena cava. The hepatic veins contain no valves, but, in consequence of those from the right and left lobe of the liver opening obliquely into the vena cava, present a semilunar fold at the lower margin of their orifices. Chief Variations in the Inferior Vena Cava (1) The inferior vena cava, in cases of transposition of the viscera, may lie on the left side of the aorta. (2) Without transposition it may also lie to the left of the aorta, crossing to the right to gain the caval opening immediately below the diaphragm, or after receiving the left renal vein. (3) It may be double, the left cava then usually passing across the aorta into the right after receiving the left renal vein. A communi- cation between the right and left veins in the position of the normal left common iliac vein may or may not then exist. (4) The inferior vena cava may be absent, the blood from the lower extremities passing by a large vein in the position of the ascending lumbar and azygos veins through the diaphragm to open into the superior vena cava. The hepatic veins then open directly into the right auricle through the normal caval opening in the diaphragm. (5) The inferior vena cava may receive the left spermatic vein. (6) It may receive a left accessory renal vein passing behind the aorta, and into this the usual tributaries of the left renal vein may open. (7) It may receive several accessory renal veins; as many as seven on each side have been met with. (8) The lumbar veins may enter it on one or both sides as a common trunk. (8) THE COMMON ILIAC VEINS The common iliac veins are formed opposite the sacro-iliac synchondrosis by the confluence of the external iliac and internal iliac veins. They converge as they ascend, and unite opposite the upper border of the fifth lumbar vertebra to form the vena cava inferior a little to the right of the median line. The rig^ht vein, shorter and more vertical in direction than the left, passes | obliquely behind the right common iliac artery to its outer side, where it is joined j by the left common iliac vein. j The left vein lies to the inner side of the left common iliac artery, and, after crossing in front of the promontory of the sacrum and fifth lumbar vertebra below the bifurcation of the aorta, passes beneath the right common iliac artery to jpin the right vein and form the inferior vena cava. The left vein may contain an imperfect valve. Tributaries.—The ilio-lumbar veins may enter the lower part of the common iliac, or open into the internal iliac vein. The left vein receives the middle sacral j veins. j {a) The ilio-lumbar veins follow the course of the ilio-lumbar artery, and end | either in the common iliac or in the internal iliac vein. i {h) The middle sacral veins ascend on either side of the middle sacral artery in j front of the sacrum, to open usually by a single trunk into the left common iHac I