LEVATOB ANGULI SCAPULA—BHOMBOIDEI 305 X Second Layer Consists of four muscles—the levator anguli scapula, rhomboideus minor and ajor ; and the latissimus dorsi. ^ 1. lev;a.tor anguli scapula The levator anguli scapulae (figs. 263 and 266), named from its action in raising he posterior superior angle of the scapula, is a ribbon-shaped muscle. Origin.—By four short tendons from the posterior tubercles of the transverse recesses of the four upper cervical vertebrae. Insertion.—The vertebral border of the scapula opposite the supraspinous ssa. Structure.—The tendons of origin, vi^hich are closely connected with the inser- on of the splenius colli, after a short course are succeeded by muscular bellies, d these unite to form a thick band of parallel fibres which remain fleshy to their sertion. The plane of the muscle changes as it descends. Above, while lying in e posterior triangle of the neck, its surfaces look outwards and inwards ; below, ey are directed backwards and forwards. Nerve-supply. — From the cervical plexus by branches from the third and aurth cervical nerve which enter the front of the outer surface near the origin of muscle. Action.—It raises the posterior superior angle of the scapula ; but, by causing tation of that bone, it depresses the point of the shoulder. Taking its fixed oint from below, it is an extensor and lateral flexor of the neck. Relations.-—Superficially, the deep cervical fascia, the platysma myoides, the 'erno-mastoid, the trapezius, the scalenus medius, the internal jugular vein, the "inal accessory nerve, and some of the descending branches of the cervical plexus ; eeply, the splenius colli, the cervicalis ascendens, the serratus posticus superior, d the posterior scapular vessels. Variations.—The number of cervical vertebrae from which the muscle arises varies, and : may even arise from the mastoid process or occipital bone. It msij send slips to the ".rratus magnus, the serratus posticus major, and other adjacent muscles; occasionally 0 to the clavicle and first two ribs. 2 AND 3. RHOMBOIDEI The rhomboidei—named from their shape, which is rhomboidal, or like a itarallelogram—are sometimes looked upon as a single muscle, but may be Lsually separated into the following :— The rhomboideus minor, the lesser and upper of the two, is a four-sided sheet, orming an elongated parallelogram. I Origin.—The lower part of the ligamentum nuchse, the spines of the seventh ervical and first thoracic vertebrae, and the supraspinous ligament between them. I Insertion.—The vertebral border of the scapula opposite its spine. Structure.—Its origin and insertion are by short tendinous fibres, between l^hich its fleshy fibres run parallel to one another, downwards and outwards. ( Nerve-supply.—From the brachial plexus by a branch of the fifth cervical jierve, which enters its deep aspect near the upper border a short distance above its asertion. For action and relations, see the account of the following muscle. X