135 THE BADIUS j THE RADIUS The radius is shorter than the ulna and hes parallel with it. The upper end, l)r head, is surmounted by a circular disc, of which the superior surface is depressed l;or the reception of the capitellum of the humerus, especially in flexion of the ■orearm. The margin of the head is also articular; it is deeper on the ulnar jispect, where it is received by the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna; the rest of I: Fig. 134.—Articular Facets on the Lower End of Left Kadius and Ulna. [ Posterior RADIUS ULNA I [ STYLOID PROCESS OF ULNA HEAD OF ULNA: IT ARTICULATES WITH THE INTERARTICULAR FIBRO-CARTILAGE OF THE WRIST JOINT Anterior the circumference is embraced by the orbicular ligament. Below the cartilage- covered surface of the bone there is a constricted portion, or neck, which is in relation by its outer side w^ith the suijinator brevis. Beneath the neck, on the anterior aspect of the bone, there is an oval eminence, the bicipital tuberosity, divided longitudinally into a rough posterior portion for the biceps tendon, and a smooth anterior surface in relation with the bursa which is situated between the tendon and the tuberosity. Fig. 135.—Posterior View of the Lower End of the Radius and Ulna. RADIUS Insertion of supinator longus Ext. ossis metaearpi pollicis and Ext. primi internodii poUicis Extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior TUBERCLE FOR POSTERIOR ANNULAR LIGAMENT Extensor secundi internodii pollicis STYLOID PROCESS The broad groove on the radius is for the tendons of ext. communis dieito- rum and extensor indicis Extensor minimi digiti lies in the groove between the radius and ulna Extensor carpi ulnaris STYLOID PROCESS The radius has three borders and three surfaces. Of the three borders the interosseous is the best marked. Commencing at the posterior edge of the bicipital tuberosity, it extends as a sharp ridge until it approaches the distal extremity of the bone; it then divides to become continuous with the anterior and posterior margins of the sigmoid cavity. It affords attachment to the interosseous mem- brane. The anterior border starts from the bicipital tuberosity, crosses obliquely