THE ARTERIES 620 branch to the adductor magnus and brevis. This branch is generally accompanied by the posterior division of the obturator nerve. Before passing between the quadratus femoris and adductor magnus, a small branch runs upwards beneath the quadratus femoris to supply the back of the hip joint, and anastomoses with the gluteal and sciatic arteries. Its companion veins join the profunda vein. Variations of the internal circumflex.—(A) It may come off from the profimda artery before the external circumflex. (B) It may arise from the femoral artery ; or (C) from the external iliac or one of its branches. (c) The perforating arteries of the profunda are so called because they perforate, in a more or less regular manner from above downwards, certain of the adductor muscles. They form a series of loops by anastomosing with one another (fig. 373), and with the gluteal, internal circumflex, and sciatic arteries above, and with the muscular and articular branches of the popliteal below. They are distributed chiefly to the hamstring muscles, but send twigs along the external j intermuscular septum to supply the integuments at the back and outer parts of the thigh. Other branches perforate the external intermuscular septum and ' the short head of the biceps, and, entering the crureus and vastus externus, anastomose with the descending branch of the external circumflex. All the per- forating arteries, moreover, contribute to reinforce the artery of the sciatic nerve, a branch of the sciatic artery. They are each accompanied by tw^o veins which terminate in the profunda. j (i) The superior or first perforating is given off from the profunda as that i vessel sinks beneath the adductor longus. It either pierces the adductor brevis, \ or else runs between the pectineus and adductor brevis, and then passes through a small aponeurotic opening in the adductor magnus close to the inner lip of the linea aspera. In this course it supplies branches to the adductors, and, after perforating the adductor magnus, is distributed to the lower part of the gluteus \ maximus and the hamstring muscles, one branch commonly running upwards ' beneath the gluteus maximus to anastomose with the external circumflex, internal | circumflex, and sciatic arteries, forming the crucial anastomosis at the junction of \ the neck of the femur with the great trochanter (fig. 373). A second branch descends | to anastomose with the ascending branch of the middle perforating. I (ii) The middle or second perforating, which is given off from the profunda as it lies behind the adductor longus, pierces the adductor brevis, and then passes j through a second aponeurotic opening in the adductor magnus a little below that for the first perforating artery, and also close to the linea aspera. It supplies the hamstring muscles, sends a branch upwards to anastomose with the descending branch of the superior perforating, and another downwards to anastomose in like manner with the ascending branch of the third perforating. It usually supplies the chief nutrient branch to the femur. At times, however, this comes : from the third perforating. (iii) The inferior or third perforating also arises from the profunda as it Hes under the adductor longus, usually about the level of the lower border of the adductor | brevis. It turns beneath this border, and then, like the first and second perforating, j passes through an aponeurotic opening in the adductor magnus close to the linea j aspera. It also supplies the hamstring muscles, and divides into two branches, i which anastomose above with the second perforating, and below with the termination ! of the profunda or the fourth perforating. \ (iv) The fourth perforating is the continuation of the profunda. It passes j through an aponeurotic opening in the adductor magnus just above the opening | for the femoral artery. It anastomoses, above with the third perforating, and below with the superior muscular and articular branches of the popliteal. It supplies | chiefly the short head of the biceps. ,