COCCYGEAL PLEXUS 853 superficial a little below the knee. At this point it approaches the long saphenous vein, and accompanies that vessel for the remainder of its course. It runs down the anterior and inner part of the leg, supplying branches to the skin of that region, passes in front of the inner malleolus, and supplies the integument for about two inches below that prominence. As it leaves Hunter's canal, the long saphenous nerve gives off a patellar branch. This branch pierces the sartorius, and runs, at first downwards and then inwards, towards the ligamentum patellae. It gives twigs to the integument covering that ligament, and others Avhich curve upwards to join the plexus patellae. SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL NERVES The anterior primary divisions of the upper four sacral nerves escape from the neural canal by passing through the anterior sacral foramina, while the anterior division of the fifth passes forwards between the sacrum and coccyx. The coccygeal nerve escapes from the neural canal by passing through the terminal opening. Its anterior primary division pierces the sacro-sciatic ligaments and passes forwards. The sacral nerves decrease progressively in size, from the first to the fifth. The first sacral nerve is the largest nerve in the body, while the fifth is very small. Each sacral nerve is connected to the gangliated cord of the sympathetic by rami communicantes. The anterior divisions of the first, second, and part of the fourth nerves join the sacral plexus ; another part of the fourth has an independent distribution. The lower part of the fourth joins the fifth sacral and the coccygeal nerve to form the coccygeal plexus. The branches of the fourth sacral nerve and the coccygeal plexus may be conveniently described first, as their distribution is confined to a limited area in the immediate neighbourhood of the sacral plexus. FOURTH SACRAL NERVE The fourth sacral nerve gives off an ascending branch to join the sacral plexus, and a descending twig to the coccygeal plexus. In the interval between these communicating branches, several offsets arise directly from the fourth sacral, without entering into a plexiform arrangement. These direct offsets are the perforating cutaneous nerve, the perinatal branch, and the muscular nerves to the coccygeus and to the levator ani. The perforating- cutaneous branch runs in the angular interval between the great and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments, and then, perforating the former ligament, runs between it and the gluteus maximus. It then winds round the border of that muscle, behind the ischio-rectal fossa, and supplies the integument covering the lower and inner part of the muscle (figs. 464, 466). The peringeal branch of the fourth sacral pierces the pelvic diaphragm, between the contiguous margins of the coccygeus and levator ani, and appears close to the tip of the coccyx. It is then directed forwards, and ends in twigs to the external sphincter ani and to the integument of the anus. The branches to the coccygeus and levator ani enter these muscles on their deep or pelvic surface.