THE EAR 913 The reniform orifice of the fenestra ovalis leads into the vestibule, and is occu- pied by the base of the stapes with its annular ligament, in addition to the lining membrane derived from the cavities with which it communicates. The fenestra rotunda leads into the cochlea, and is closed by a membrane (the secondary membrane of Scarpa), concave towards the tympanum. This consists of three layers—a middle fibrous layer, coveied by the mucous lining of the tympanum externally, and by the serous layer of the cochlea internally. The posterior wall presents the hollow pyramid which lodges the stcqjedms muscle and the openings which lead into the mastoid antrum and cells ; these vary much in size, and receive a mucous lining from the cavity. The anterior wall, which is separated by a thin layer of bone from the carotid canal, presents the orifice of the small canal, filled in the recent state by the tensor tympani muscle, the orifice of the Eustachian tube, and the intervening plate of bone, the processus cochleariformis. The EUSTACHIAN TUBE is nearly two inches (2*5 cm.) in length, and passes from the tympanum downwards, forwards, and inwards. It is partly bony and partly cartilaginous. The osseous portion is about half an inch (1-3 cm.) in length. It commences just below the orifice which transmits the tendon of the tensor tympani muscle, and, gradually contracting, ends by a jagged and oblique orifice between the petrous and squamous portions of the temporal bone. To this is attached the cartilaginous portion of the tube, which is about an inch in length. This is composed of an elon- gated triangular plate, so folded upon itself as to leave an interval below which is completed by fibrous tissue. At first narrow, the canal becomes much expanded towards its trumpet-shaped termination. Its orifice, which is somewhat oval, opens into the upper part and side of .the pharynx, on a level with the inferior meatus. The mucous membrane possesses a ciliated lining. It is thin near the tympanic cavity, but it is much more vascular, thicker, and possesses mucous glands and adenoid tissue near its pharyngeal orifice. Sections of the cartilaginous portion of the tube show that the cartilaginous plate is curled round like a hook above, and that the membranous portion is thin where it is attached to the tip of the hook, but that it becomes much thicker below. A small space near the bony portion of the tube, immediately below the hook, remains permanently open, but elsewhere the walls are in contact, except when separated by the action of the tensor palati muscle, or when forcibly driven asunder, as in the act of sneezing, etc. A number of small sesamoid fibro-cartilages, some of which are visible to the naked eye, are buried in the submucous tissue. The ossicles of the ear are described on pages 73-75. Articulation of the Ossicles.—The malleus with, the incus. I The oblong articular surface which descends as far as the neck, on the posterior surface of the head of the malleus, is divided into two portions by a nearly vertical I edge. The incus presents a corresponding surface similarly divided into two por- [tions, and both of these surfaces are coated by a delicate layer of hyaline cartilage. A thin capsule, from the inner surface of which a delicate wedge-shaped meniscus projects from above into the cavity of the joint, is attached to the grooves, which i limit the articular surfaces. The mechanism has been compared by Helmholtz to |the check movement inside the key of a Geneva watch, and permits considerable gliding between the two bones. The incus with the stapes,—This joint is formed by the convex surface of the [lenticular process (orbicular bone) which terminates the long crus of the incus and the corresponding concave surface of the head of the stapes. Both surfaces are covered with a layer of hyaline cartilage. i The elastic capsular ligament permits but very slight separation between the 3 N