PNEUMOGASTBIG NEBVE 815 the ganglion of the root of the vagus. Immediately below the petrous ganglion a twig is given off which joins the lingual branch of the facial as above described (page 809). (4) The muscular branch is distributed to the stylo-pharyngeus muscle. This branch receives a communication from the facial. According to Testut, the glosso-pharyngeal gives off carotid branches which join the carotid plexus of the sympathetic and also muscular twigs to the digastric, stylo-hj^oid, and stylo-glossus muscles. (5) The pharyngeal branches may be two or three in number, and arise from the nerve a short distance below the petrous ganglion. The principal and most constant of these nerves passes on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, and after a very short independent course joins the pharyngeal branch of the vagus to form the pharyngeal plexus with that nerve, and with branches of the superior cervical ganglion. (6) The tonsillar branches are a number of small twigs which arise under cover of the hyo-glossus muscle; these proceed to the tonsil, around which they form a plexus. From this plexus fine twigs proceed to the pillars of the fauces and to the soft palate. (7) The lingual branches arise from the termination of the nerve and proceed to the dorsum of the tongue, where they are chiefly distributed to the circumvallate papillae. Some small twigs pass backwards to the follicular glands of the tongue, and to the anterior surface of its epiglottis. Other twigs are distributed around the foramen c^cum, where they communicate with the corresponding twigs of the opposite side. TENTH OK PNEUMOGASTBIG NEEVE The pneumogastric or vagus nerve is the longest of the cranial nerves. It is remarkable for its extensive distribution, for the asymmetry which it shows in certain parts of its course and distribution, and for the almost vertical course which it pursues. It supplies, as its name implies, the lungs and the stomach, but also furnishes branches to the external ear, the pharynx, larynx, oesophagus, trachea, heart, and abdominal viscera. The pneumogastric nerve arises in the medulla in a manner nearly identical with the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, the roots of the former nerve being a serial continua- tion of the roots of the latter. Thus we find that sensory roots arise from the small-celled nucleus (in a position corresponding to the ala cinerea in the floor of the fourth ventricle), and motor roots arise from the nucleus ambiguus. The latter arch round to join the sensory roots. The vagus is also said to receive a few fine filaments from the funiculus solitarius. The roots from these different sources unite and pass forwards and outwards to emerge (superficial origin) in the form of from ten to fifteen fasciculi, between the restiform body and the lateral column of the medulla. This row of fasciculi is in series above with the glosso-pharyngeal roots, and below with the bulbar roots of the spinal accessory. The roots of these three nerves cannot be distinguished from one another either at their superficial origin, or at the points where they spring from their nuclei in the medulla, unless the connection of the roots with their respective trunks has been preserved. From its superficial origin the vagus nerve proceeds outwards and slightly upwards and forwards beneath the flocculus to reach the jugular foramen. It traverses the middle compartment of the foramen accompanied by the spinal accessory and glosso-pharyngeal nerves The former nerve occupies the same compartment in the dura^mater as the vagus. The glosso-pharyngeal is provided with a separate sheath, and is in front of and somewhat internal to the other two