365 FASCIA OF THE THIGH Iso three strong intermuscular septa, which extend from it to the linea aspera ividing the flexor, extensor, and adductor groups of muscles from one another .t the upper part of the thigh, below the inner third of Poupart's ligament, is the aphenous opening, for the passage of the internal saphenous vein, which, after unning up the thigh in the superficial fascia, enters the deep femoral vein in this ituation. This opening is not, as might have been expected from the character 'f these openings in other parts, a mere circular foramen. It is formed by the ivision of the fascia lata into two parts, which do not unite together again, but j,re inserted separately along the line of attachment of the lower limb to the trunk. I^t begins below the inner third of Poupart's ligament, and is of a somewhat )val shape, measuring about one inch from above downwards, and half to hree-quarters of an inch from side to side. The lower border of the opening Fict. 285.—Obliquus Externus and Fascia Lata. Obliquus internus Aponeurosis of obliquus externus Spermatic cord Origin of eremaster i Triangular fascia Insertion of eremaster Obliquus externus Intereolumnar fibres Poupart ligament External abdominal ring Saphenous opening Loops of eremaster 11 forms a well-defined edge which occupies the angle between the saphenous and femoral veins close to their point of junction. Externally, the fascia lata is attached above along the whole length of Poupart's ligament, and its free internal edge arches inwards towards the spine of the pubes in front of the femoral vein. This external and broad division of the upper part of the fascia lata is called its iliac portion, and the free edge which lies in front of the femoral vessels is known by the name of the falciform ligament. Internally, the fascia lata is in close contact with the pectineus muscle which lies beneath it, and with that muscle it dips beneath the femoral vein and the sheath of the vessels to be attached to the ilio-pectineal line. This internal division is called the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The deep layer of the superficial fascia stretches across the opening, and is firmly attached to the edge of the falciform ligament. From the numerous openings which give passage to the vessels and lymphatics, it is here called the cribriform fascia {crihrum being the Latin for a sieve).