1166 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY | the inner side of the groin. It is continuous through the scrotum with the deep | layer of the superficial fascia of the perineum. Just below Poupart's ligament it is ! joined to the fascia lata. From these last two facts it results that in rupture or j giving way of the urethra the extravasated urine may come forwards by way of [ the genitals, and from the continuity of the fascia make its way on to the abdomen, ! but not down on to the thigh. ! Between the two layers of superficial fascia lie the superficial glands of the groin, the superficial branches of the common femoral artery, one or two cutaneous nerves i and some veins descending to the saphenous opening to join the long saphena vein. | (2) Poupart's lig^ament.—This is also known as the crural arch, a misnomer, ! as ' crus' means leg. A description of its shape and attachments is given on | page 1144. Owing to the connection of the fascia lata to its lower border, the i ' saphenous opening,' which is situated in the fascia lata, and has its upper cornu ! blending with Poupart's ligament, will be affected by movements of the thigh, [ much as is the external abdominal ring, being tightened and stretched when the ! limb is extended and abducted, relaxed when it is adducted and flexed. The parts beneath it which block up the gap between it and the innominate ' bone are of the utmost importance in preventing the escape of a femoral hernia. (3) Gimbernat's ligament.—This is merely the triangular internal attachment of Poupart's ligament. Its apex is attached to the pubic spine ; of its three borders the base is free towards the vein and the femoral canal. Its upper border is continuous with Poupart's ligament, its lower is attached to the ilio-pectineal line. (4) Fascia lata.—Two portions are described over the upper part of the thigh :— {a) An iliac, external and stronger, attached to Poupart's ligament in its whole extent and lying over the sartorius, ilio-psoas, and rectus, (b) A pubic, internal, weaker, and much less well defined, is attached above to the ilio-pectineal line and the spine of the pubes. The upper cornu of the ' saphenous opening' is at Gim- bernat's ligament, and at the lower cornu the two portions of the fascia blend. Their relation to the femoral vessels.—The iliac portion, being attached along ! Poupart's ligament, passes over these. The pubic portion, fastened down over the : i pectineus, which slopes down on to a deeper plane than the adjacent muscles, passes behind the femoral vessels to end on the capsule of the hip joint. | (5) Saphenous opening.—This is doubly a misnomer. It is not an opening, but !' an oval depression, situated at the spot where the two parts of the fascia lata diverge j on different levels. As without dissection it is not an opening but an oval depression, ! fossa ovalis would have been a better term were it not otherwise employed. Though \ the fascia lata is wanting here, there is no real opening, as the deficiency is made !. up by the deep layer of superficial fascia, or cribriform fascia, which fills up the j opening. The term ' saphenous ' is also misapplied : etymologically it means ' very j evident.' Now it is notorious that in very many subjects this opening only becomes; plain when rendered an artificial one by dissection ; and that thus, with the limited \ opportunities of one or two subjects, it is by no means easy to verify the details i about it which have been described as constant. j Uses of the ' saphenous opening j'—Though a weak spot, it is so on purpose to |' transmit the saphena to the femoral vein, and the superficial to the deep lymphatics, i The depression is present in order to allow the saphena vein to be protected ] from pressure in flexion of the thigh. | Site.—At the inner and upper part of the thigh, with its centre an inch andf a half below and outside the spine of the pubes. \ Diameters.—One inch vertically, by a half or three-quarters of an inch. Shape : \ oval, with its long axis downwards and outwards. Tiuo extremities or coriiua : upper \ blending with Gimbernat's ligament; lower, where the two parts of the fascia lata ■ meet. Ttoo borders: outer also known as the ligament of Hey, or femoral ligament, j or falciform process of Burns. Semilunar in shape, arching downwards and outwards'