THE TYMPANUM 47 ossifies so rapidly that by the end of the sixth month its cliief portion is converted into porous bone. The ossific material is deposited in fom" centres, or groups of centres, named according to their relation to the ear-capsule in its embryonic position. The nuclei are deposited in the following order :— 1. The opisthotic appears at the end of the fifth month. The osseous material is seen first on the promontory, and it quickly surrounds the fenestra rotunda from above down- wards, and forms the floor of the vestibule, the lower part of the fenestra ovalis, and the internal auditory meatus, it also invests the cochlea. Subsequently a plate of bone arises from it to surround the internal carotid artery and form the floor of the tympanum. Fig. 54.—The Mastoid Antrum at the Third Year. (After Symington.) 2. The pro-otic nucleus is deposited behind the internal auditory meatus near the inner limb of the superior semicircular canal. It covers in a part of the cochlea, the vestibule, and the internal auditory meatus, completes the fenestra ovalis, and invests the superior semicircular canal. 3. The pterotic nucleus ossifies the tegmen tympani and covers in the external semi- circular canal; the ossific matter is first deposited over the outer limb of this canal. 4. The epiotic is the last to appear, and is first seen at the most posterior part of the posterior semicircular canal; often it is double. This centre gives rise to the mastoid process. Fig. 55.—The Mastoid Antrum at the Ninth Year. (After Symington.) At birth the bone is of loose and open texture, resembling biscuit orunglazed porcelain, thus offering a striking contrast to the dense and ivory-like petrosal of the adult. It also differs from the adult bone in several other particulars. The floccular fossa is widely open and conspicuous. Voltolini has pointed out that a small canal leads from the floor of the floccular fossa and opens posteriorly on the mastoid surface of the bone: it may open in the mastoid antrum. The hiatus Fallopii is unclosed, and the tympanic recess is filled with gelatinous connective tissue. The mastoid process is not developed, and the jugular fossa is a shallow depression. After birth the parts grow rapidly. The tympanum becomes permeated with air ; the