OF THE PELVIS 213 'le falciform process (fig. 208), and is a prolongation of the posterior edge of the gament. A great many fibres pass on directly into the tendon of the biceps luscle, so that traction on this muscle braces up the whole ligament, and the loccyx is thus made to move on the sacrum. The ligament may not unfairly be escribed as a tendinous expansion of the muscle, whereby its action is extended nd a more advantageous leverage given. It is thin and flat at its attached ends, ut narrow and thicker in the centre, looking like two triangular expansions joined ly a flat band, the larger triangle being at the ilium, and the smaller at the 5chium. The fibres of the ligament are twisted upon its axis at the narrow part, 0 that some of the superior fibres pass to the lower border. The posterior surface gives origin to the glutetis maximiis muscle, and on it amify the loops from the posterior branches of the sacral nerves ; its anterior surface 3 closely connected at its origin with the small sacro-sciatic ligament, and some Fig. 208.—Sacro-sciatic Ligaments. (Posterior view.) ■pbres of the j^yriformis muscle arise from it; below, the obturator internus passes out of the pelvis under its cover, and the internal pudic vessels and nerve pass in. At the .lium, its posterior edge is continuous with the vertebral aponeurosis ; while to the interior edge is attached the thick fascia covering the gluteus medius. The obturator fascia is attached to its falciform edge. It is pierced by the coccygeal branches of ihe sciatic, and a branch from the fourth sacral nerve. \ The small sacro-sciatic ligament (figs. 206, 207 and 208) is triangular and thin, springing by a broad base from the lateral border of the sacrum and coccyx, from the front of the sacrum both above and below the level of the fourth sacral foramen, iMid from the coccyx nearly as far as its tip. By its apex it is attached to the front surface and the borders of the ischial spine as far outw^ards as its base. Its fibres jdecussate so that the lower ones at the coccyx become the highest at the ischial spine; muscular fibres are often seen intermingled with the ligamentous. It is situated in front of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, with which it is closely