735 COBPUS CALLOSUM—LATERAL VENTBICLES The fibres from the body have the following distribution :—The uppermoist fibres pass outwards and then upwards, and finally curve inwards to the upper and mesial surfaces of the frontal and parietal lobes. The intermediate fibres pass transversely outwards to the same lobes. The lowest fibres form the roof of the lateral ventricle, and are separated from that cavity only by the ependyma and epithelium, and divide into anterior and posterior sets which are differently distributed. The anterior set ends in the operculum. The posterior set forms a layer called the tapetum which follows the descending and posterior cornua of the lateral ventricle, roofing over and bounding these cornua externally. The part which follows the descending cornu is destined for the temporal lobe. The portion which accompanies the posterior cornu passes to the under part of the occipital lobe. The fibres from the splenium, and from the part which is folded below it, pass backwards and outwards, and then sweep inwards forming the forceps major,* the fibres of which pass to the posterior and upper parts of the occipital lobe. Dissection.—Having completed the examination of the corpus callosum and of the mesial surface of the hemisphere, the student should next tuxn. his attention to the lateral Fig. 414.—Diageammatic Coronal Section of Third and Lateral Ventricles. (From Schwalbe, slightly modified.) LA 'J'L'/IA L VESTRICLK The red lines indicate the epithelium. ventricles. The remaining fibres of the body of the corpus callosum shoidd be divided a little to the right of the middle line and reflected outwards. This dissection wall expose the body and anterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The posterior and descending cornua should next be exposed by removing their outer wall. The Lateral Ventricles are cavities in the cerebral hemispheres which are continuous with the third ventricle and with one another, through the foramen commune anterius (page 738). They are roofed over, as already described, by the corpus callosmn, and are lined throughout by epithelium, which is reflected over the choroid plexuses, and is not continuous with the lining of the third ventricle except at the foramina of Monro. This epithelial lining forms the ventricular Avail in the region of the so-called transverse fissure, through ^vhich the choroid plexus projects. This fissure is therefore not a breach in the ventricle, but simply a thin part of the wall through which the locally thickened pia mater (choroid plexus) can be seen. Each lateral ventricle consists of a central part or body and three cornua : an anterior, an inferior or descending, and a posterior.