LYMPHATICS OF UPPER EXTBEMITY 693 from the right side of the thorax, and part of the lymphatics from the convex surface of the liver. It passes downwards and inwards from its formation at the union of the subclavian and jugular lymphatic trunks, and ends at the confluence of the right internal jugular and subclavian veins. Its entrance is guarded by a double valve. THE LYMPHATICS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY The lymphatics of the upper extremity—consisting of both lymphatic vessels and lymphatic glands—are arranged in two sets, a superficial and a deep. The former are situated in the subcutaneous tissue between the skin and the deep or muscular fascia, the latter along the course of the arteries of the limb. Both sets converge as they approach the axilla, and unite in the axillary glands. The efferent vessels of these glands form one or more trunks, which open, on the left side, into the thoracic duct, and, on the right side, into the right lymphatic duct. I. THE SUPEPvFICIAL LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY 1. The superficial lymphatic vessels begin around the matrix of the nail and in the pulp of the finger. Thence they run upwards, in the form of four main channels, along the side of the finger—two on the dorsal and two on the palmar aspect. The palmar set end on the convexity of a lymphatic palmar arch. From the arch, lymphatic vessels run up the forearm, more or less in two sets—an outer and an inner—roughly following the course of the superficial veins; a third or median set, starting as a plexiform arrangement in front of the wrist, runs up between the other two. The communication, however, between the three main sets of vessels is so free that, when they are minutely injected, the front of the forearm appears covered with a dense plexus of lymphatics (fig. 899). The dorsal set of digital lymphatics ends in a plexus on the back of the hand. From this plexus numerous lymphatic vessels stream up the back of the forearm, and, winding round the inner and outer borders respectively of the limb, join the lymphatics on the anterior aspect. From the bend of the elbow the lymphatics run up the arm, the greater number following the course of the basilic vein, and, dipping beneath the pectoralis major, converge to end in the axillary glands. The lymphatics from the outer side of the arm run in chief part obliquely across the biceps, towards the axilla ; but a few accompany the cephalic vein to the infraclavicular lymphatic glands. The lymphatics over the deltoid also mainly end in these glands. 2. The superficial lymphatic glands are few in number. There are none, as a rule, below the bend of the elbow. Occasionally there is one at the bend of the elbow, and constantly two or three are found above the internal condyle (epitrochlear glands), in the course of the lymphatic vessels running with the basilic vein. II. THE DEEP LYMPHATIC VESSELS AND GLANDS OF THE UPPER EXTBEMITY 1. The deep lymphatic vessels accompany the arteries of the upper extremity. Hence in the forearm they are found along the course of the radial, the ulnar, the anterior interosseous, and the posterior interosseous arteries. At the bend of the