200 THE ABTICULATIONS \ connected with the atlanto-odontoid capsule, and at the condyles they strengthen j the occipito-atlantal capsular ligaments. The central odontoid or suspensory ligament (fig. 196 and 199) consists of a slender band of fibres ascending from the summit of the odontoid process to the j under surface of the occipital bone, close to the foramen magnum. It is best seen ! from the front, after removing the anterior occipito-atlantal ligament, or from behind by drawing aside the crucial ligament. The suspensory ligament is tightened by extension and relaxed by flexion or ' nodding ; the lateral odontoids not only limit the rotatory movements of the head | and atlas upon the axis, but by binding the occiput to the pivot, round which rotation occurs, they steady the head and prevent its undue lateral inclination upon the spine. By experiments, it has been proved that the head, when placed so that the orbits look a little upwards, is poised upon the occipital condyles in a line drawn a little in front of their middle ; the amount of elevation varies slightly in different i cases, but the balance is always to be obtained in the human body—it is one of ^ the characteristics of the human figure. It serves to maintain the head erect without undue muscular effort, or a strong ligamentum nuchas and prominent dorsal spines such as are seen in the lower animals. Disturb this balance, and let the muscles cease to act, the head will either drop forwards or backwards according as the centre of the gravity is in front or behind the balance line. The ligaments which pass over the odontoid process to the occiput are not quite tight when the head is erect, and only become so when the head is flexed ; if this w^ere not so, no flexion would be allowed; thus, muscular action, and not ligamentous tension, is employed to steady the head in the erect position. It is through the combination of the joints of the atlas and axis, and occiput and atlas (consisting of two pairs of joints placed symmetrically on either side of the median line, while through the median line there passes a pivot, also with a pair of joints) that the head enjoys such freedom and celerity of action, remarkable strength, and almost absolute security against violence, which could only be obtained by a ball-and-socket joint; but the ordinary ball-and-socket joints are too prone to dislocations by even moderate twists to be reliable enough when the life of the individual depends on the | perfection of the articulation : hence the importance of this combination of joints. ' THE ARTICULATIONS OF THE TRUNK These may be divided into the following sets :— 1. Those of the vertebral column. {a) Union of the bodies. (h) Union of the articular processes. 2. Vertebral column with the pelvis. 3. Pelvis. (a) Sacro-iliac synchondroses. (c) Intercoccygeal. (6) Sacro-coccygeal. {d) Symphysis pubis. 4. Eibs with the vertebral column. 5. The articulations at the front of the thorax. {a) Costal cartilages with the sternum. {h) Costal cartilages with the ribs, (c) Sternal. {d) Certain costal cartilages with each other.