1011 THE BEGTUM AND ANUS When a descending meso-colon exists it joins that of the loop, and the line of attachment is then, as a rule, directed obliquely across the psoas and the lower end of the kidney, while beyond the pelvic brim the attachment is as above described. There is often no meso-colon over the psoas, the gut being adherent to that muscle. In connection with the sigmoid meso-colon is often found a fossa or pouch of peritoneum, known as the inter sigmoid fossa. The pouch is formed by the layers of the meso-colon, and is produced by the sigmoid artery. It is generally found over the bifurcation of the iliac vessels. The pouch is funnel-shaped, and the opening looks downwards and to the left. The fossa varies in depth from one to lone and a half inch, and is the seat of the sigmoid hernia. I The rectum.—The rectum has been described as divided into three portions. 'Such division is quite arbitrary, and is inconvenient. What is usually described as the first portion has, in the account just given, been included with the sigmoid jflexure. The two remaining portions of the intestine extend from the middle of the third piece of the sacrum to the anus. It would be well if the term rectum were to be limited to that part of the Ibowel which is below the level of the third segment of the sacrum, and which is -ree of any meso-colon. This portion of bowel—the rectum proper—may be livided into two portions. The first portion extends from the third piece of the l?acrum to the tip of the coccyx. I This portion, about three and a half inches long, is only covered by peritoneum ibove, and then only over the anterior surface. Behind, it is in relation with the jjacrum and coccyx. In front it is in relation with the trigone of the bladder, the l/esiculae seminales, and under surface of the prostate. In the female the anterior kirface is in relation with the vagina and the cervix uteri. The peritoneum is reflected from the rectum to the bladder in the male, and he vagina in the female (recto-vesical or recto-vaginal pouch). This pouch ixtends in the male to within about three inches of the anus. On the posterior surface of the gut there is no peritoneum below a point five inches from the anus. ' The second portion (or what used to be called the third portion) extends from he tip of the coccyx to the anus ; it is about an inch and a half long. It differs irom the first portion in the direction of its curve : while that follows the curve of I he sacrum and coccyx, this portion turns backwards and downwards. It is not ■onnected with the peritoneum. It is surrounded, after leaving the prostate, by the nternal sphincter, while the levator ani is attached to its side. At its end the jxternal sphincter is situated; in front is the triangular ligament of the perinaeum. bst above the anus the rectum is much dilated. The anus.—The anus is the aperture by which the intestine opens externally. )uring life it is contracted by the sphincters, so as to give the skin around a vrinkled appearance. Bound the lower part of the rectum and anus certain iiuscles that are connected with its proper function are situated. They are the nternal sphincter, the levator ani, and the external sphincter. The levator ani and xternal sphincter will be found described in another part. The internal sphincter is a thickening of the circular fibres of the intestine, jituated round the rectum about an inch above the anus, and extending over half In inch of the intestine. It forms a complete muscular ring. It is two lines thick, j-nd is paler than the external sphincter. ! The rectum differs from the rest of the colon in presenting perfectly smooth [i^alls marked by no sacculi, by no longitudinal muscular bands, and by no appen- j ices. The mucous membrane of the rectum is thicker than that of the rest of the irge intestine. Certain folds, chiefly longitudinal in direction, are seen in the lax tate of the tube which disappear when distended. Houston has described three 3 T 2