THE ARTERIES 552 i pectoralis major and the integuments. found to anastomose with a similar delicate branch coming off from the aorta below the ductus arteriosus. This anastomosis, which represents the remains of the right dorsal aortic stem, may become enlarged, and the subclavian artery on the right side be derived from the arch of the aorta. This accounts for the subclavian in such circumstances passing behind the oesophagus. (See Variations of the Aech of THE Aorta.) THE AXILLARY ARTERY The term axillary is applied to that portion of the main arterial stem of the upper limb that passes through the axilla. The axillary artery therefore is continuous with the subclavian above and with the brachial below. It extends from the outer border of the first rib to the lower edge of the teres major muscle, and has the shoulder joint and the neck of the humerus to its outer side. When the arm is placed close to the side of the body, the artery forms a gentle curve with its convexity upwards ; but when the arm is carried out from the side at right angles to the trunk in the ordinary dissecting position, the vessel takes a nearly straight course, which will then be indicated by a line drawn from the middle of the clavicle to a spot midway between the condyles of the humerus. The axillary artery is at first deeply placed beneath the pectoral muscles, but in its lower third is superficial, being covered only by the skin and the superficial fascia and deep fascia. It is divided ["into three parts—first, second, and third, according as it lies above, beneath, or below the pectoralis minor. The First Part of the Axillary Artery The first part of the axillary artery extends from the outer border of the first rib to the upper border of the pectoralis minor. It measures about an inch in length (2-5 cm.). ! Eelations.—In front it is covered by the skin, superficial fascia, the origin oi the platysma, the deep fascia, the pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane,] the subclavius muscle and the clavicle when the arm hangs down by the side. The | cephalic and acromio-thoracic veins, the external anterior thoracic nerve, and th( | axillary tymphatic trunk, cross over it. A layer of the deep cervical fascia whichj has passed under the clavicle also descends in front of it. I Behind, it rests upon the first intercostal space and first intercostal muscle, th( second digitation and sometimes a portion of the third digitation of the serratu? magnus muscle, and a part of the second rib. The posterior or external respirator; nerve of Bell, on its way to the serratus magnus muscle, passes behind it. i To its outer side, and somewhat on a higher plane, are the cords of the brachia | plexus. i To its inner side, and on a slightly anterior plane, is the axillary vein. Th anterior internal thoracic nerve courses between the vein and the artery. The Second Part of the Axillary Artery The second part of the axillary artery (fig. 346) lies beneath the pectorali minor deep in the axilla. It measures a little more than an inch in leng-th (3 cm. Relations.—In front, in addition to the pectoralis minor, it is covered by th i,