PELVIC PLEXUSES 878 Pelvic Plexuses Each of the two lateral continuations of the hypogastric plexus passes downwards on the side of the rectum, where it is joined by slender branches from the sacral part of the ganghated cord, and by branches from the third and fourth (sometimes the second) sacral nerves. In this manner the pelvic plexuses are formed. Each pelvic plexus gives off branches to the pelvic viscera; these branches, in the greater part of their course, follow the arteries of the pelvis. We distinguish middle hsemorrhoidal, vesical, prostatic, and (in the female) vaginal and uterine plexuses. The middle hsemorrhoidal plexuses form a closely-meshed expansion on the sides of the rectum; they communicate above with branches from the inferior mesenteric plexus, and below with the inferior hsemorrhoidal branches of the pudic nerve. The vesical plexus is chiefly formed by fibres derived from the third and fourth sacral nerves. The nerves pass forwards on each side of the bladder, and divide into two groups—a superior group, which supplies the upper two-thirds of the bladder; and an inferior group, which is distributed to the lower third of that viscus. In the male, branches are given off to the vesiculffi seminales and vasa deferentia. The nerves to the vas deferens form a slender plexus which accom- panies that structure as far as the internal abdominal ring, where it unites with the spermatic plexus. The prostatic plexus is placed a little lower down than the vesical plexus, of which it is in some measure a continuation. The nerves which pass to it are of relatively large size, and are massed on the sides of the organ, where several ganglionic masses, from one-eighth to a quarter of an inch in length (ganglia prostatica of Miiller), are developed. From the prostatic plexus, offsets are furnished to the vesiculae seminales, and also branches to the erectile structures of the penis ; the latter branches are called cavernous nerves. The small cavernous nerves are several fine twigs which pierce the layers of the triangular ligament and the muscular structures which surround the membranous portion of the urethra. They enter the corpora cavernosa just in front of the subpubic ligament. The large cavernous nerve takes a similar course through the triangular liga- ment, and runs forwards on the dorsum penis as far as the middle of the organ, where it communicates with the dorsal nerves of the penis. It ends in twigs to the corpus cavernosum. In the female there are similar nerves, but of much smaller size, distributed to the clitoris. The vaginal plexus is formed largely by branches from the sacral nerves. It ramifies on the sides of the vagina, giving off twigs to the erectile substance, and to the mucous membrane. A few fine twigs pass forwards to reach the clitoris. The uterine plexus accompanies the uterine artery between the layers of the broad ligament, and, having received communicating twigs from the ovarian plexus, enters the muscular substance. In the gravid uterus this plexus is increased in size, chiefly on account of an hypertrophy of the connective tissue sheaths of the nerves.