483 STYLO-GL OSS US—PA LA TO-GLOSS US Relations.—Superficially, the internal pterygoid, the parotid gland, hngual j-ustatory nerve, and the mucous membrane of the side of the tongue ; deeply, the Itylo-pharyngeus, hyo-giossus, inferior lingualis and genio-hyo-giossus, with the •losso-pharyngeal nerve. 4. PALATO-GLOSSUS The palato-glossus—named from its attachment to the soft palate and tongue yXwa-aa)—is a somewhat cylindrical muscle which expands at either end into a bm sheet. Origin.—The under surface of the aponeurosis of the soft palate ; and at he middle line its fibres are continuous with those of its fellow of the opposite 'kle. Insertion.—(1) The superficial muscular stratum which covers the side and djacent part of the under surface of the tongue ; (2) it is partly continuous with |ie deep transverse lingualis muscle. Structure.—Arising in a thin muscular sheet, its fibres form as they pass out- wards a small cylindrical bundle which, lying in front of the tonsil and against jie wall of the pharynx, constitutes the anterior pillar of the fauces. This bundle jms downwards and forwards till it reaches the side of the tongue at the junction i its middle and posterior thirds. Here some of the fibres pass forwards and pwnwards to join the superficial stratum formed by the stylo-giossus and hyo- lossus. The rest pass inwards towards the middle line, being continued into the Bep transverse lingualis muscle. This part of the two muscles, together with le associated portion of the lingualis transversus, forms a sphincter muscle round le front part of the faucial opening, j Nerve-supply.—Filaments from the pharyngeal plexus. Action.—(1) To draw downwards the sides of the soft palate ; (2) to draw )wards and backwards the sides of the tongue. The combination of these two tions closes the front part of the faucial opening, as in the second part of sallowing, when the back of the tongue comes into contact with the soft palate, id prevents the return of the food which is being grasped by the constrictors. Relations.—Superficially, it is covered by the mucous membrane of the soft date and the side of the tongue; deeply, it is in contact with the aponeurosis of |e soft palate, the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and the hyo-glossus ; hind it lies the tonsil. THE DEEP MUSCLES OF THE FEONT OF THE NECK j The deep muscles of the front of the neck consist of an inner and an outer |oup, separated from one another by the fine of the anterior tubercles of the Irvical vertebrte. Both groups are covered in front by the prevertebral fascia. Outer Group i The outer group is formed by the three scaleni, which pass from the first two •|>s upwards and inwards to the transverse processes. ii2