THE LABGE INTESTINE 1007 I )and is excessive, while the segment to the left of the band has atrophied. In this orm the anterior band rims to the inferior angle of junction of the ilemii with the 3fecum. The root of the appendix is posterior to that angle. There is no trace of ijhe original apex, and the appendix appears to spring almost from the ileo-cfecal 'unction (fig. 575, d). Other variations.—The ca?cnm may vary in its general development. It is isometimes small and insignificant, in other cases it reaches a large size. It may be so rotated that the ilemii passes behind the colon and opens on the right side. The posterior part has been seen much more developed than the anterior, so that the ileum has entered from the front, and the appendix has come off from the interior wall. The caecum may remain undescended, and be found just under the liver or in the vicinity of the umbilicus. The caecum and colon may be suspended by a mesentery common to the whole intestinal canal. In such cases the primitive i condition of the peritoneal fold which supports the small and large intestine is ■■ permanently retained (page 1034). The vermiform appendix.—Attached to what is really the original apex of the cfficum is a narrow blind tube : this is the vermiform appendix. It usually comes joff close to the ileo-c^cal valve on the inner and posterior side of the bowel, though 'occasionally it forms the true apex of the csecum. In the adult the average length is four inches, the extremes being one inch and six inches. In the majority of instances the appendix is much twisted upon itself. Its usual position is behind the end of the ileum and its mesentery, and pointing in the direction of the spleen. It may occasionally ascend vertically behind the caecum. It has a definite mesentery, which comes off from the left layer of the mesentery of the ileum. Its origin from this layer is along a straight line which is situated at a short distance from the intestine, and which is not quite parallel with the I margin of the bowel. In general outline the mesentery is triangular. In the adult it does not extend along the whole length of the tube. It is, in fact, too short for the appendix, and it is this that accounts for the twisted condition of the llittle process. Along the free margin of the mesentery runs a branch of the ileo- colic artery. Ileo-caecal fossa.—About the caecum, and especially in the vicinity of the ileo- jCascal junction, are certain fossae collectively known as the ileo-csecal. Two only appear to be fairly constant. The first, the suioerior ileo-ccecal, is formed by the passage across the junction of the caecum and ileum of a branch of the ileo-colic artery, which produces a fold of peritoneum limiting a pouch. It is on the anterior ^ aspect of the bowel, and the pouch opens downwards. I' The second fossa is not quite so simple. If the caecum be turned upwards so i as to expose its posterior surface as it lies in situ, and if the appendix be drawn down ' (SO as to put its mesentery on the stretch, a peculiar fold will be found to join that mesentery. This fold arises from that border of the ileum which is most remote from the insertion of its mesentery. It then passes over the ileo-c^ecal junction on jits inferior aspect, is adherent to the caecum, and finally joins the surface of the . mesentery of the appendix. This fold is peculiar in the absence of any visible vessels. Between it and the appendix there is an almost constant fossa, the inferior ileo-ccecal. It is large, admitting two fingers. It opens outwards, and is bounded on one side by the small intestine, and on the other by the caecum. The ileo-csecal valve.—The ileo-caecal valve, which is situated at the entrance of the ileum into the large intestine at the upper border of the csecum, is found on the inner side and towards the posterior aspect of the intestine. The ileum passes from below upwards and towards the right, and terminates with a considerable degree of obliquity. The valve is formed by two semilunar folds projecting into j the large intestine, set nearly transversely, the lower being a little oblique. The j opening between them takes the form of a narrow slit, rounded in front but narrow