970 THE ORGANS OF GIBCULATION The auriculo-ventricular opening is oval and guarded by the tricuspid valve. The three triangular flaps of this valve are continuous with one another at their broad ends, and so form a continuous fold around the orifice ; but beyond, they project with jagged and sharply dentated edges towards the apex of the ventricle. The chordae tendineae, which chiefly arise from the papillary muscles already described, pass to their free borders and ventricular surfaces. The largest segment of the valve is placed in front, the smallest behind near the septum, and the third, which is the most movable, is situated on the right between the two ventricular | openings. I Smaller segments intervene between the larger flaps. The chordae tendineae, which arise in groups from the papillary muscles, divide as they pass to be attached to the edges and ventricular surfaces of the neighbouring segments. Additional i cords are furnished from the ventricular walls, and especially from the septum to the small segment, and some of these are provided with little papillary muscles. The segments of this valve, except at the extremities and margins, contain abundant fibrous, a small amount of muscular tissue, and they are attached by their thickened bases to a fibrous ring which surrounds and strengthens the orifice. Fig. 552.—View of the Auriculae Cavities from below (the Transverse Section passing above their Middle). The surfaces which look towards the opening are smooth, whilst upon the opposite surfaces the chords tendineae form an arched interlacement, w4iich has been well likened to the fan tracery of Gothic architecture. (Macalister.) The left auricle is placed behind the roots of the aorta and pulmonary artery, with the right auricle overlapping it, and lying to the right of these structures. Behind, it receives on each side the pulmonary veins. Its narrow and much curved appendix arches round the root of the pulmonary artery, and is the only part of the auricle to be seen from the front. The cavity of the auricle is smooth, with the exception of the appendix, in which the musculi pectinati are well marked. Openings.—Besides the narrow opening which leads from the atrium into the appendix, the left auricle presents posteriorly the orifices of the four pulmonary veins, two of which sometimes have a single mouth, whilst a third may be present, and especially on the right side. The oval auriculo-ventricular opening is placed below and in front. Several small orifices, the foramina Thebesii, are also to be found in the cavity. A crescentic indentation on the septal wall, with its concavity upwards and placed above the level of the annulus ovalis, indicates the upper border of the valve, which has grown upwards to obliterate the foramen ovale,