644 THE VEINS (2) At the aortic opening the vena azygos major hes to the right of the aorta and thoracic duct, between the crura of the diaphragm. (3) In the posterior mediastinum, as it courses upwards on the right side of the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae, the vena azygos major crosses in front of the lower right intercostal arteries, having on its left side the descending aorta and thoracic duct, in front the root of the right lung and lower down the pleura, and on its right side the right pleura and lung. (4) As it curls over the root of the right lung, the vena azygos major is in contact with the right bronchus, the pneumogastric nerve passing obliquely between them (fig. 324). It usually contains an imperfect pair of valves at the spot where it turns forwards from the fourth thoracic vertebra to arch over the root of the lung ; and still more imperfect valves are found at varying intervals lower down the vein. Tributaries.—(1) The vena azygos minor; (2) the vena hemiazygos acces- soria, or one or more of the left intercostal veins ; (3) the lower end of the lower j superior intercostal vein of the left side (sometimes); (4) the lower right oesophageal | veins ; (5) a few right mediastinal veins ; (6) the right bronchial vein ; (7) the lower ' right superior intercostal vein ; (8) the nine lower right intercostal veins; and i (9) the right subcostal vein. The vena azygos minor—also called the lower left azygos and vena hemiazygos j —begins in the abdomen by communicating, like the vena azygos major, with the | ascending lumbar vein of the left side. Through this vein it communicates with i the lumbar veins, the renal, and the iliac veins, and, according as one or other portion of the ascending lumbar is enlarged and other portions are diminished in size or obliterated, so may the vena azygos minor appear to begin in the vena cava inferior j or in a lumbar, the renal, or one of the iliac veins. The vena azygos minor, after j receiving the left subcostal vein, passes through the left crus of the diaphragm, and courses up the posterior mediastinum to the left of the bodies of the lower, thoracic vertebra as high as the eighth, where it turns obliquely to the right, and, crossing in front of the spinal column behind the aorta and the oesophagus, opens; into the vena azygos major. In its course it crosses over three or four of the^ lower left intercostal arteries, and is covered by the pleura. Tributaries.—(1) The lower four left intercostal veins; (2) the left subcostal vein; (3) the lower end of the third azygos vein (sometimes); (4) small letii mediastinal veins ; and (5) the lower left oesophageal veins. The vena azygos tertia (also called the upper left azygos and vena hemiazygos accessoria) varies considerably in size, position, and arrangement, and is ofter absent. It lies in the posterior mediastinum by the left side of the bodies of thJ fifth, sixth, and seventh thoracic vertebrae, and is more or less vertical in directionl It is continued above into the lower left superior intercostal vein, and below eithel joins the vena azygos minor, or passes obliquely across the sixth or seventh thoraci' vertebra to join the vena azygos major. The intercostal veins intervening betweei; it and the vena azygos minor then open directly across the spine into the ven I azygos major. It crosses the corresponding left intercostal arteries, and is covere | by the pleura. i Tributaries.—(1) The fifth, sixth, and sometimes the seventh intercostal veins j (2) the lower end of the lower left superior intercostal vein ; (3) the upper en of the vena azygos minor (sometimes); and (4) the left bronchial vein. The intercostal veins.—The intercostal veins are eleven in number on each sid j and correspond with the intercostal arteries. The last thoracic vein is here calk the subcostal, and is described separately (page 645). There is one vein to eac! intercostal artery, the vein lying above the artery whilst in the intercostal spac Each vein is joined by a dorsal tributary which runs with the dorsal branch <j the intercostal artery between the transverse process of the vertebra and the ne( i