THE CABPAL JOINTS 251 and often of considerable strength, which passes across the head of the magnum from the back of the scaphoid to the back of the cuneiform bone ; besides binding down the head of the magnum, it serves to fix the upper and outer angle of the unciform in the socket formed by the first row. The dorsal ligaments, like the palmar, are strengthened by a quantity of fibrous tissue belonging to the sheaths of the extensor tendons and an extension of some of the fibres of the capsule of the wrist. There are no proper lateral medio-carpal ligaments ; they are but prolongations of the lateral ligaments of the wrist. The synovial membrane (fig. 235) of the carpus is common to all the joints of the carpus, and extends to the bases of the four inner metacarpal bones. Thus, besides lining the inter- or medio-carpal joint, it sends two processes upwards between the three bones of the first row, and three downwards between the contiguous surfaces of the trapezoid and trapezium, the trapezium and magnum, and magnum and unciform. From the latter, prolongations run between the carpo-metacarpal Fig. 234.—Posterior View of Wrist, with Capsule cut to SHOW Articular Surfaces. Transverse dorsal ligament Lower lend of interosseous ligament Inferior oblique ligament Triangular fibro-cartilage Band of posterior ligament of wrist left to keep bones in sitil Tendon flexor carpi ulnaris < joints of the four inner bones, and three processes are sent down between the contiguous sides of the four inner metacarpal bones. The arterial supply is derived from (a) the anterior and posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar arteries ; (b) the carpal branch of the anterior interosseous, the recurrent branch ; and (c) branches from the deep carpal arch. The terminal \ twigs of the anterior and posterior interosseous supply the joint on its dorsal 1 aspect. The nerve-supply comes from the ulna on the ulnar side, the median on the radial side, and the posterior interosseous behind. The movements of the carpal articulations between bones of the same row are very limited and consist only of slight gliding upon one another ; but, slight as they are, they give elasticity to the carpus to break the jars and shocks which j-esult from blows or falls upon the hand. The movements of one row of bones upon the other at the medio-carpal joint are more extensive, especially in the direction of flexion and extension, so that the