8 THE SKELETON The process behind the foramen has a shallow groove for the corresponding spinal nerve. The extremity of the transverse process is bifid; each arm is terminated by a tubercle referred to as anterior and posterior. The costo-transverse foramen is very characteristic of a cervical vertebra. It is bounded posteriorly by the pedicle, externally by the rudimentary transverse process, and anteriorly by a narrow bar of bone springing from the centrum posterior to the neuro-central suture. This thin bar is a vestigial rib, and will be referred to as the costal process. The spinal foramen of all the cervical vertebrae is large, and somewhat triangular in form. Peculiar cervical vertebrse.— The various cervical vertebrae possess distinguish- ing features. The first, second, and seventh have characters so different from their fellows as to render them peculiar. The Atlas This vertebra has neither body nor spinous process ; it is an irregular ring of bone with two thicker portions, the lateral masses, united anteriorly by a bridge, the anterior arch, which constitutes one-fifth of the entire circumference. This arch presents a tubercle on its anterior face for the anterior vertebral ligament and the longiis colli muscle ; its posterior surface has a circular facet for the odontoid process of the axis. The upper and lower borders are for ligaments. The lateral masses are united posteriorly by a larger arch of bone, forming two-fifths of the circumference. Posteriorly this arch has a tubercle, representing a rudimentary spinous process. The upper and under surfaces of the arch afford Fig. 8.—The First Cervical Vertebra or Atlas, anterior tubercle superior articular process- costal process costo-transverse foramen transverse process groove for vertebral artery POSTERIOR TUBERCLE attachment to ligaments. At the junction of the arch with the lateral masses there is, on the upper surface, a deep groove which lodges the vertebral artery and the suboccipital (first spinal) nerve. A. bridge of bone sometimes con- verts this into a foramen. A similar, but much shallower, notch is present on the under surface ; this, with the axis, forms an intervertebral foramen for the second nerve. The atlas and axis are peculiar in that the first and second spinal nerves issue behind the articular processes, whereas the remaining spinal nerves emerge in front of the articular facets of the vertebrae. Each lateral mass has, on its upper surface, an elongated, deeply concave articular fossa or cup. These articular cups converge anteriorly. Occasionally each presents two oval facets united by an isthmus. These cups receive the occipital condyles and permit nodding movements of the head. The inferior articular processes are circular and almost flat; they are directed downwards, with an inclination inwards, and rest upon the axis, and permit rotatory movements of the head. Between the upper