OPTIC THALAMI—PINEAL BODY , In coronal sections through the posterior part of the thalamus, the external surface is seen to be separated from the inferior surface by a distinct angle; but in similar sections through the anterior part the two siurfaces pass into one another, the angle being rounded off. The grey substance of the thalamus is indistinctly marked off into three nuclei: an antero-superior, an external, and an internal. The largest part of the antero-superior nucleus forms the anterior tubercle ; the thinner portion passes backwards above and between the other two nuclei; its shape has been not inaptly compared to that of the caudate nucleus. A remarkable bundle of white fibres, the ansa lenticularis, passes below the optic thalamus and inner capsule from the lenticular nucleus of the corpus striatum. The pineal body (epiphysis cerebri or conarium) is a reddish-grey body about the size of a cherry-stone. It has the form of a flattened cone, compressed from above downwards. Its long axis is directed forwards and slightly upwards. Its base is directed forwards and passes into a bilaminar stalk. Its superior surface Fig. 422.—Coronal Section through the Middle Commissure of the Third Ventricle. (Schwalbe.) is covered by epithelium for the anterior two-thirds or three-fourths of its extent, and bounds in part the cavity of the third ventricle. Its inferior surface rests in the mesial groove between the superior quadrigeminal bodies, separated from the latter by a fold of pia mater. The stalk of the pineal body is continuous by its lower lamina with the posterior commissure. Its upper lamina passes into the peduncle or stria pinealis, w^hich passes at first outwards, and then forwards, along the margin of the optic thalamus which separates the upper and mesial surfaces of that body ; it then crosses the floor of the foramen of Monro and joins the anterior pillars of the fornix. The recussus pinealis is a diverticulum from the cavity of the third ventricle, which extends into the stalk and a short distance into the body of the conarium. Within the pineal body, and in the adjacent part of the velum interpositum, a number of gritty particles (acervulus cerebri, brain sand) are found. These particles consist chiefly of phosphate and carbonate of calcium. The pineal body was formerly described as a gland (pineal gland)