THE ABTERIES 520 Branches of the Occipital Aetery The branches of the occipital artery are:—(1) The sterno-mastoid ; (2) the ; posterior meningeal; (3) the auricular ; (4) the mastoid ; (5) the princeps cervicis ; I (6) the communicating; (7) the muscular; and (8) the terminal. The sterno- ! mastoid, posterior meningeal, auricular, and princeps cervicis are the four vessels ' usually named amongst the above branches. i (1) The sterno-mastoid branch (fig. 335) usually comes off from the occipital I just after its origin from the carotid, and, passing downwards and backwards over j the loop of the hypoglossal nerve, enters the sterno-mastoid muscle in company with j the spinal accessory nerve. At times this artery is a distinct branch of the external carotid. The hypoglossal nerve then as a rule loops round it instead of round the I occipital. j (2) The posterior meningeal branches (fig. 335), one or more in number, are ' long slender vessels which leave the occipital artery as it crosses the internal jugular ' vein, and, ascending along that vessel, pass with it through the jugular foramen, i and are distributed to the dura mater lining the posterior fossa of the skull. (3) The auricular branch ascends over the mastoid process to the back of the ear, and supplies the pinna and concha. It sometimes takes the place of the ' posterior auricular artery (fig. 335). (4) The mastoid branch is a small twig that passes into the skull through the ] mastoid foramen, supplying the dura mater, the diploe, the walls of the lateral sinus and the mastoid cells. (5) The princeps cervicis (fig. 335), the largest of the branches of the occipital, arises from that artery just before it emerges from beneath the splenius, and, descending for a short distance between the splenius and complexus, divides into a superficial and a deep branch. The superficial branch perforates the splenius, supplies branches to the trapezius, and anastomoses with the superficial cervical, a branch of the transverse cervical artery. The deep branch passes downwards between the complexus and semispinalis colli, and anastomoses with the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal and with branches of the vertebral (fig. 338). The ana- i stomoses between the above-mentioned arteries form important collateral channels after ligature of the common carotid and subclavian arteries (fig. 330). (6) The communicating branches run deeply into the triangle formed by the superior oblique, inferior oblique, and rectus capitis posticus major muscles, and ; there anastomose with branches of the vertebral. (7) Muscular branches throughout the course of the occipital artery are dis- I tributed to the contiguous muscles—viz. in addition to the sterno-mastoid which receives a named branch, to the digastricus, stylo-hyoid, splenius, trachelo-mastoid, i trapezius, the small muscles forming the suboccipital triangle, and the posterior ! belly of the occipito-frontalis. (8) The terminal or superficial branches (fig. 335), usually two in number, named from their position internal and external, ramify over the scalp, and have already been described. The internal branch generally gives off a twig which enters the parietal foramen (parietal artery). 6. THE POSTEEIOR AURICULAR ARTERY The posterior auricular artery (fig. 335) arises from the posterior part of the external carotid artery, usually immediately above the posterior belly of the" digastric, about the level of the tip of the styloid process. Occasionally it arises j under cover of the digastric, quite close to, or as a common trunk with, or i as a branch of, the occipital. It courses upwards and backwards in the parotid