1050 THE UBINABY OBGANS mainly from the sympathetic through the solar and aortic xDlexuses, the semilmiar ganglia, and the splanchnics. They commmiicate with the spermatic plexuses.! Some filaments have also been traced from the pneumogastrics. Varieties.—The principal variations of the kidney are as follow :— I 1. In form.—Disproportionate increase of one or other diameter, producing the long, globular, and discoid types. ; 2. In size.—Inequality : one being small, the other compensatingly large. 3. In number.—The organ may be single, then usually occupying its ordinary position in one or other loin; or, still more rarely, it may be triple, in which case' the additional gland is either lateral or median. ' 4. In 2)osition.—One or both kidneys may be above or below the normal level, ^ in the latter and far more frequent case encroaching upon the iliac fossa, or even J entering the true pelvis in front of or behind the rectum; or the displacement may! be horizontal, the organ lying upon the vertebral column or even in the opposite loin. | 5. By fusion of the two kidneys ; the union involving the lower extremities only! (' horseshoe kidney'), or the whole length of their inner borders. 6. In mobility.—Undue mobility is usually, if not always, due to a laxity of that portion of the subperitoneal tissue which constitutes the fatty capsule; but a peritoneal meso-nephron is said to have been seen in extremely rare cases ofj movable kidney. THE SUPRAEENAL BODIES These structures do not form any part of the genito-urinary apparatus, but it is convenient to describe them in association with the glands by which they ar supported. The suprarenal bodies (fig. 615) are two solid viscera resting each upon th upper extremity of the corresponding kidney and the adjoining parts of its inner an anterior surfaces, and bound to it by subperitoneal connective tissue. They li against the diaphragm opposite the eleventh rib, or tenth intercostal space, and ar separated from each other by a space of about two inches and a half. The left i usually a little higher than the right owing to the greater elevation of its kidney. The organ varies widely in dimensions within physiological limits. Its averag weight is about a drachni, its height an inch and a quarter, and its greatest breadt" at the base an inch and three-quarters. The right suprarenal body is pyramidal in form with the apex directed upward and someAvhat inwards. Its anterior surface is related above to a special impressio" upon the under and back part of the right lobe of the liver, between the layer of the coronary ligament ; internally to the inferior vena cava which slightl: overlaps it (Rolleston) ; and below is covered with peritoneum continuous with that of the kidney, except at its internal inferior angle where it is crossed by th hepatic flexure of the duodenuin. It is rather firmly adherent to the liver, and th vessels of the two organs anastomose with each other at this point. The left suprarenal body is a little larger than its fellow, somewhat crescenti in shape, and encroaches less upon the summit of the kidney than the right, an: more upon the inner border, reaching even to the hilum. Its anterior surface i covered above by the peritoneum of the lesser sac, which separates it from the stomach; and below, near its internal inferior angle, it is crossed by the uppe' border of the pancreas and the splenic artery. Externally it is in contact withj the upper extremity of the spleen, which passes a little behind it, and its inner! border is separated from the aorta by the fibres of the diaphragm. Accessory suprarenal bodies are often present in the connective tissue around the i principal organ. Structure.—On section the organ is found to be covered by a thin fibrous'