50 THE SKELETON numerous deep circular depressions for Pacchionian bodies are found near this groove. The superior border is deeply serrated for the opposite parietal, the union with which forms the sagittal suture. The anterior and posterior borders are deeply serrated: the anterior articulates with the frontal to form the coronal, and the posterior with the squamo-occipital to form the lambdoid sutures. The inferior border is bevelled and overlapped by the squamosal to form the squamous suture. Of the angles, the anterior inferior is prolonged downwards and articulates with the summit of the greater wing of the sphenoid. The posterior inferior angle articulates with the mastoid portion of the petrosal; on its inner surface it has a horizontal groove for lodging a portion of the lateral sinus. The superior angles present nothing worthy of note. Articulations.—The parietal articulates with its fellow, the occipital, squamosal, frontal, sphenoid, and epipteric bones. Occasionally the squamosal and epipteric may exclude the parietal from union with the greater wing of the sphenoid. Blood-supply.—From the middle meningeal, occipital, and supraorbital arteries. Ossification.—The parietal ossifies from an earthy spot deposited in the outer layer of the dura mater about the seventh week. This bone is sometimes divided by a horizontal suture. THE FEONTAL This bone bears much the same relation to the anterior part of the skull that the occipital bears to the posterior. It has, not inaptly, been compared to a cockle shell. The inner or posterior surface is concave, forming a deep fossa for the reception of the frontal lobes of the cerebrum. There is a gap in the lower part of the bone known as the ethmoidal notch, which overlaps by its thin edges the cribriform plate of the ethmoid and forms, with that bone, the internal orifices, of the anterior and posterior ethmoidal canals. The anterior part of this notch articulates with the crista galli, and the small hole in the line of suture is the foramen caecum. Prolonged vertically upwards from the point of union with the crista is a ridge of bone, which gradually opens out to form a furrow for the reception of the superior longitudinal sinus ; the ridge serves for the attachment of the anterior part of the falx cerebri. The thin laminae of bone on each side of the ethmoidal notch are termed orbital plates, because they form the greater part of the roof of each orbit. As a rule, they present deep depressions for the convolutions on the orbital surface of the cerebrum. The rest of the cerebral surface of the frontal is fairly smooth, and presents a few furrows for meningeal arteries, and, near the median groove, pits for Pacchionian bodies. The external surface is convex and smooth, often divided by an imperfect fissure, the remains of the metopic suture, which indicates the line of union of the two bones representing the frontal in early life. On each side of this suture a little below the centre is the frontal eminence. Below the eminences, separated by shallow grooves, are the two converging superciliary ridges, which approach each other in the median line to form the nasal eminence. The smooth space bounded by the converging superciliary ridges is the glabella. Below these ridges the bone presents the sharp supraorbital ridges which end internally at the internal angular, and externally at the external angular processes. Each ridge has a narrow, deep supraorbital notch (sometimes a complete foramen) at its inner third. At the bottom of this notch or foramen a small opening communicates with the diploe. The external angular processes are prominent and articulate with the malar bones ; from each process a ridge extends upwards and backwards, marking off the lateral aspect of the bone, where it assists in the formation of the temporal ridge and fossa. The internal angular processes articulate with the lachrymal.