714 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM dura mater, taken in their order of magnitude: the falx cerebri, the tentorium cerebelii, the falx cerebelli, and the diaphragma sellge. There are also two smaller paired folds ; viz. the folds which project from the lesser wings of the sphenoid bone into the Sylvian fissm-es of the brain, and the crescentic folds which are placed over the optic nerves at the upper margin of the optic foramina. The Falx Cerebri is a large sickle-shaped process, deeper behind than in front, which is placed in the great longitudinal fissure of the brain. It is attached by its base to the tentorium cerebelli, in the middle line, and maintains by its tension the vaulted character of the latter. The straight sinus follows this line of attachment. Its apex is firmly fixed to the crista galli of the ethmoid, and has also an attach- ment to the ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid bone. Its convex or upper margin corresponds to the superior longitudinal sinus, and is attached to the periosteal Fig. 405.—The Cranium opened to show the Falx Cerebri, the Tentorium Cerebelli, and the places where the Cranial Nerves pierce the Dura Mater. (Sappey.) FOURTH NERTE THIRD NERVE Falx cerebri Superioj" longitudinal sinus Inferior Ion git u dinal sinus Veins of Galen Straight sinus Tentorium cerebelli Lateral sinus Falx cerebelli SEVENTH AND EIGHTH NER VES NINTH, TENTH, AND ELEVENTH. NERVES TWELFTH NERVE SECOND CERVICAL NERVE FIRST CERVI- CAL NERVE Ligamentum denticulatum FIFTH NERVE SIXTH NERVE layer opposite to the edges of the groove for that sinus in the frontal, the two parietal, and the occipital bones. The inferior longitudinal sinus courses along its concave or free margin. This margin closely approaches the corpus callosum behind, but is separated from it by a considerable interval in front. The Tentorium Cerebelli occupies the interval between the cerebrum and cerebellum. It presents for examination an upper surface, a lower surface, a free or concave border, and an attached or convex border. The upper surface is in contact with the occipital lobes of the cerebrum, and is strongly convex upwards, forming a roof-like structure, to the ridge of which the base of the falx cerebri is attached. This ridge also slopes upwards and forwards, so that its highest point is situated at the free border. The under surface is in apposition to the cerebellum. The free border bounds an opening usually described as oval, but which is more properly triangular with curved sides, the apex of the triangle being turned back-