AXILLABY 553 Behind, it is separated by a considerable interval containing loose connective issue and fat from the subscapularis muscle ; whilst behind, and in contact with is the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. To the inner side, but separated from the artery by the inner cord of the rachial plexus, is the axillary vein. To the outer side is the outer cord of the brachial plexus, and at some little istance the coracoid process. It is thus seen that the second portion of the axillary artery is surrounded on tiree sides by the cords of the brachial plexus—one behind, one internal, and one xternal. The Thied Paet of the Axillary Aeteey I The third part of the axillary artery (fig. 346) extends from the lower border |£ the pectoralis minor to the lower border of the teres major. Its upper half jes deeply placed within the axilla, beneath the lower edge of the pectoralis major puscle, but its lower half is in the arm external to the axilla, and is uncovered by [luscle. It measures about three inches in length (7'5 cm.), i; Relations.—In front it has, in addition to the skin and superficial fascia, the ectoralis major above, and lower down the deep fascia of the arm. It is crossed bliquely by the inner root of the median nerve and by the outer brachial vena omes. Behind, it lies successively upon the subscapularis, the latissimus dorsi, and teres iiajor muscles. From the first-named muscle it is separated at first by a consider- ble mass of fat and cellular tissue. The musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves itervene between the artery and the muscles. On its outer side it is separated from the bone by the coraco-brachialis, by which is partly overlapped, this muscle and the short head of the biceps serving as a aide to the artery in ligature. For a part of its course it has also the musculo- ntaneous nerve and the outer root of the median nerve to its outer side. To its inner side it has the axillary vein, the ulnar nerve, the internal cutaneous erve, the lesser internal cutaneous nerve, and the inner root of the median nerve, he ulnar nerve is between the artery and the vein. The internal cutaneous nerve 1 a little in front of the artery as well as internal to it. Variations in the Axillary Artery The chief variations in the axillary artery are :—[a) It may give off the radial artery; )) more rarely, the ulnar artery ; (c) still more rarely, the interosseous artery, or a vas berrans; {d) it may give off a common trunk, from which may arise the subscapular, 16 anterior and posterior circumflex, and the superior and inferior profunda arteries. The ranches of the brachial plexus usually surround this common trunk, and not what is pparently the main brachial artery. The latter vessel indeed would seem in many of these istances to be really an enlarged vas aberrans, and the common trunk the main brachial rtery, the lower portion of which has been obliterated, i.e. obliterated from the last branch liven off from the common trunk to the spot where it is again joined by the vas afberrans. ) The axillary artery may be covered in the third part of its course by a muscular slip (the Tsi axillaris), derived from the upper part of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and always esent in early fcetal life, though as a rule atrophied later. Branches of the Axillary Artery The first part gives oft :—(1) The 'superior thoracic ; and (2) the acromio- loracic. The second part gives off :—(1) The long thoracic ; and (2) the alar thoracic. The third part gives off:—(1) The subscapular ; (2) the anterior circumflex; nd (3) the posterior circumflex.