THE SALIVARY GLANDS 98^ the masseter muscle ; and below, it is bounded by a line passing from the angle of the jaw backwards. Its deep portion is in contact with the styloid process and its muscles, and also with the sheath containing the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein. The stylo-mandibular ligament separates the parotid from the submaxillary gland. Processes or lobes pass from the body of the gland in various directions : one extends forwards beneath the ramus of the mandible between the two pterygoid muscles; a second passes inwards beneath the temporo-mandibular articulation, filling the back of the glenoid cavity ; and a third, forming the deepest portion of the gland, surrounds the styloid process and passes between the carotid vessels. These have been named respectively the pterygoid, glenoid, and carotid lobes. There is often in addition a detached lobe, known as the socia parotidis. It is placed below the zj^goma, and above the main duct, into which it pours its contents by a separate channel. The outer rounded surface of the parotid gland lies beneath the deep fascia. Fig. 559.—The Salivary Glands. SOClA PAROTIDIS DUCT OF SOCIA PAROTIDIS DUCT OF PAROTID Bristle inserted into duet Fraenum linguse DUCT OF RIVIN SUBLINGUAL GLAND DUCT OF SUBMAXILLARY GLAND Mylo-hyoid muscle Anterior belly of digastric muscle' DEEP PORTION OF SUBMAXILLARY GLAND. PAROTID GLAND Masseter muscle Sterno-mastoid. muscle Posterior belly of digastric mufcCie LINGUAL NERVE SUBMAXILLARY GLAND, DRAWM BACKWARDS Loop of fascia superficial to which is the platysma and skin, with the facial branches of the great auricular nerve. Two or three lymphatic glands are placed on this surface. From the upper part of the gland the temporal artery emerges to be joined by the temporal branches of the auriculo-temporal nerve. The duct passes forwards from its anterior border, with branches of the facial nerve and the transverse facial artery. Within the substance of the gland are found the following structures:—The termination of the external carotid artery with the commencement of the temporal, the transverse facial, the internal maxillary and posterior auricular arteries, all of which supply branches to the gland ; the temporo-maxillary vein, with a connecting; branch to the internal jugular, the facial nerve which crosses the artery in its passage forwards and breaks up into the pes anserinus before emerging from the anterior portion of the gland. There is a branch also of the great auricular nerve,