502 THE ABTEBIES I. The branches of the first, or ascending, portion of the arch of the aorta are the right and left coronary for the supply of the tissues of the heart. They come off from the aorta, immediately above the aortic valves, from two of the dilatations known as the sinuses of Valsalva. THE EIGHT CORONARY ARTERY The right coronary artery (figs. 321, 326) arises from the right anterior sinus of Valsalva, and, passing forwards and to the right between the right auricular appendix and the pulmonary artery, turns to the right, and courses in the right auriculo-ventricular groove to the back of the heart, where it follows the poste- rior interventricular groove to the apex of the ventricles, giving off, however, a small transverse branch, which continues in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle to anastomose with the terminal branch of the left coronary artery. Fm. 326.—Scheme of the Coronary Arteries. Posterior interventricular branch of right coronarij artery AURICULAR APPENDAGE Right coronary artery Preventricular branch — Right marginal branch — Posterior intervejitriculfir — branch of right coronary artery In this course it gives off the following branches : (a) k right auricular brancli (fig. 326), which turns backwards and upwards between the right auf^icle and th aorta, supplying the structures between which it runs and the auricular septum (b) a preventricular branch (fig. 326), w^hich runs down the front of the righ ventricle, supplying its walls; (c) a right marginal branch (fig. 326), which course down the right margin of the right ventricle; {d) a posterior interventricula branch, or the continuation of the coronary trunk, which passes down the post(. rior interventricular groove, giving twigs to each ventricle and the interventricula j septum, and anastomosing at the apex of the heart with the anterior interventr j cular branch of the left coronary artery ; and (e) the transverse branch, which rur j in the left auriculo-ventricular groove to anastomose with the terminal branch of tt left coronary (fig. 326).