1104 THE UBINABY OBGANS on each side to the lower margin of the ischio-pubic ramus and to the ischial tuberosity ; behind, it turns around the posterior border of the superficial transversus perinaei muscle to fuse with the posterior borders of the superficial and deep triangular ligaments and form the free border of the ' perinaeal ledge ' ; ante- riorly, it becomes continuous with the external fascial investment of the scrotum and the fascial covering of the penis. It is between this layer and the inferior triangular ligament that extravasation of urine is especially prone to occur in rupture of the urethra. From its connections it will be seen that the extension of the fluid would be arrested posteriorly and laterally by the connection of the fascia of Colles with the triangular ligaments and' with the ischio-pubic rami; but it spreads freely beneath the integuments of the scrotum and of the penis as far as the neck of the glans, and eventually ma\ reach the surface of the abdomen, but is prevented from descending below the groin by the connection of the abdominal fascia with Poupart's ligament. | Superficial perinaeal interspace (figs. 647, 652, 654).—Detaching the fascia oi Colles from its connections, the dissector opens the superficial interfascial space and Fig. 654.—Diagram of the Superficial and Deep Triangular Ligaments. Subpubic ligament with aperture for dorsal vein of the penis Apertures for dorsal artery and nerve i of the penis I CRUS PENIS Ap erture for artery of corpus cavernosum Superficial triangular ligament Isehio-eavernosus Aperture for artery to bulb Urethral aperture Aperture for Cow- per's duet Position of bulb Dorsal vein of penis Apertures for super- ficial perinaeal ves- sels and nerve Fascia of Colles, turned backwards DORSAL NERVE Anterior layer of triangular ligament Dorsal artery of penis Deep triangula ligament — Artery of cor pi. cavernosum .Artery to bulb — I'udic veins DORSAL NERVE POSITION OF COWPER GLAND Internal pndic ark Posterior bord of perinaeal led; (junction of tria gular ligamen with Colles) exposes its contents, namely:—(1) The crura of the corpora cavernosa with the ischio-cavernosi; (2) the bulb of the corpus spongiosum with the bulbo-cavernosi:; (3) the capriciously scattered fibres of the superficial transversi perinaei; (4) the • arteries of the corpora cavernosa and the dorsal arteries of the penis with their associated veins and lymphatics ; (5) the dorsal nerves of the penis ; and (6) the; superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves. The roof of the space (the so-called floor : is formed by the inferior triangular ligament. The transversi perinaei, the crura penis with the ischio-cavernosi, and the bull- with the bulbo-cavernosi, have been already described (page 1072). Each of thei muscles named has a fascial sheath of its own, distinct from the fascia of Colles. ^ The artery of the corpus cavernosum enters the crus immediately after piercing ■ the inferior triangular hgament; the dorsal artery of the penis, reaching the inter , fascial space more anteriorly with the dorsal nerve, runs forwards to the dorsum oi i the united corpora cavernosa to take its place between the vein and nerve :i the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerve given off from the internal pudic trunks' in the ischio-rectal fossa enter the interfascial space near the free border of thej perineal ledge. These divide into two sets of branches, posterior or deep, to|