THE ARTICULATIONS 250 prolongations of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the pisiform bone may be looked upon in the li^i^ht of a sesamoid bone developed in that tendon. (b) The Union of the Second Eow of Carpal Bones Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—.4 r//ircx//rt. The four bones of this row are united to one another by three dorsal, three palmar, and two interosseous ligaments. The three dorsal ligaments (fig. 234) extend transversely and connect the trapezium with the trapezoid, the trapezoid with the magnum, and the magnum with the unciform. The three palmar ligaments are stronger than the dorsal, and are deeply placed | beneath the mass of extensor tendons ; they extend transversely between the bones in a similar manner to the dorsal ligaments. | The two interosseous ligaments are situated on either side of the magnum, | which they connect with the trapezoid on the outer, and the unciform on the | inner, side. That between the magnum and trapezoid is attached to the apposed | surfaces near their dorsal, i.e. the posterior aspect. That between the magnum and unciform (fig. 235) is attached to the apposed surfaces at their lower and anterior, i.e. the palmar aspect. The synovial membrane is a prolongation of that lining the medio-carpal joint. ■ The arterial and nerve supplies are the same as for the medio-carpal joint. (c) The Medio-caepal Joint, or the Union of the Two Eows of the Carpus with one another The inferior surfaces of the bones of the first row are adapted to the superior articular surfaces of the bones of the second row. The line of this articulation is concavo-convex from side to side, and is sometimes described as having the course of a Koman S placed horizontally CO, a resemblance by no means strained, (i) The outer part of the first row consists of the scaphoid alone ; it is convex, and bears the trapezium and trapezoid, (ii) Then follows a transversely elongated socket; formed by the inner part of the scaphoid, the semilunar and cuneiform, into which are received {a) the head of the magnum, which articulates with the scaphoid and semilunar ; {h) the upper and outer angle of the unciform, which articulates with the semilunar ; and (c) the upper convex portion of the internal surface of the unciform, which articulates with the external and conca^■e portion of the inferior surface of the cuneiform, (iii) The innermost part of the inferior surface of the cuneiform bone is convex, and turned a little backwards to fit into the lower portion of the internal surface of the unciform, which is a little concave and turned for- wards to receive it. The central part, which forms a socket for the magnum and unciform, has somewhat the character of a compound complex ball-and-socket joint ; the other portions are typically arthrodial. The ligaments are : (1) anterior medio-carpal; (2) posterior medio-carpal; (3) transverse dorsal. The anterior or palmar medio-carpal is a ligament of considerable strength, consisting mostly of fibres Avhich radiate from the magnum to the scaphoid, semi- lunar, and cuneiform ; some few fibres connect the trapezoid and trapezium with the scaphoid, and others pass between the unciform and cuneiform. It is covered over and thickened by fibrous tissue derived from the sheaths of the flexor tendons and the fibres of origin of the small muscles of the thumb and little finger. The posterior or dorsal medio-carpal ligament consists of fibres passing obliquely from the bones of the first row to those of the second. It is stronger on the ulnar side than on the radial, but is not so strong as the palmar ligament. The transverse dorsal ligament (fig. 234) is an additional band, well marked