537 BIGHT AND LEFT SUBCLAVIAN 3urves outwards over the apex of the left pleura and lung to the interval between ]he anterior and middle scalane muscles. Beyond the inner border of the scalenus mticus—that is, in the second and third portions of its course—its relations are similar to those of the right subclavian artery. Relations.—In front it is covered by the left pleura and lung, whilst more super- icial are the sterno-thyroid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-mastoid muscles. It is crossed b little above its origin by the left innominate vein, and higher in the neck near the icalenus anticus by the internal jugular, vertebral, and subclavian veins. The )hrenic nerve crosses the artery immediately internal to the scalenus anticus, and jlhen descends parallel to it but on an anterior plane to cross the arch of the aorta. IChe pneumogastric nerve descends parallel to the artery between it and the left ommon carotid, coming into contact with its anterior surface just before crossing the ,rch of the aorta. The left cervical cardiac nerves of the sympathetic also descend n front of it on their way to the cardiac plexus. The left common carotid is situated ,nteriorly and to its right. The thoracic duct arches over the artery just internal 0 the scalenus anticus, to empty its contents into the confluence of the internal bgular and subclavian veins (fig. 360). j Behind and somewhat internal to it are the oesophagus, thoracic duct, inferior ervical ganglion of the sympathetic, longus colli muscle, and vertebral column. To ome extent it is overlapped posteriorly by the left pleura and lung (fig. 328). On its right side are the trachea and the recurrent laryngeal nerve, and, higher p, the oesophagus and thoracic duct. On its left side are the left pleura and lung. The chief variations in the origin of the left subclavian artery are given under Variations IF THE Arch of the Aorta (page 501). THE FIRST PORTION OF THE RIGHT SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY The first portion of the right subclavian artery extends from its origin at the ifurcation of the innominate, behind the upper margin of the right sterno-clavicular )int, upwards and outwards in a gentle curve over the apex of the right lung and leura to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. It measures about one inch and quarter in length (3 cm.). In this course it ascends in the neck a variable distance jbove the clavicle, but is so deeply placed, so surrounded by important structures, lid gives off so many large branches, that it is now seldom or never selected for the pplication of a ligature. j Relations.—In front it is covered by the integuments, the superficial fascia, the flatysma, the anterior layer of the deep fascia, the clavicular origin of the sterno- lastoid, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the deep cervical fascia, t is crossed by the commencement of the innominate, by the internal jugular, and ^ the vertebral veins ; and from within outwards by the pneumogastric and phrenic erves, and the superior cardiac branches of the sympathetic nerve. A loop of the /mpathetic nerve itself also crosses the artery, and forms with the trunk of the ^mpathetic a ring around the vessel known as the annulus of Vieussens. Behind, but separated from the artery by a cellular interval, are the longus colli Luscle, the transverse process of the seventh cervical or first thoracic vertebra, the Lain chain of the sympathetic nerve, the inferior cardiac nerves, the recurrent .ryngeal nerve, and the apex of the right lung and pleura. Below, it is in contact with the pleura and lung and the loop of the recurrent .ryngeal nerve, which winds round the artery from the pneumogastric and ascends phind it to the larynx. The subclavian vein is below the artery and on an anterior iane. ! Branches.—The vertebral, internal mammary, and thyroid axis arise from this irt of the vessel.