518 THE ABTEBIES inferior labial, or in common with it, passes forwards beneath the depressor anguli oris towards the angle of the mouth, thence skirts along the lower lip, between the mucous membrane and orbicularis oris, about a quarter to half an inch from the junction of the skin and mucous membrane, and anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite sidec It can readily be felt beating during life by pressing the lip between finger and thumb. It gives off descending branches which anastomose with the inferior labial and the mental branch of the inferior dental. (3) The superior coronary artery, arising from the facial a little higher than the inferior coronary, passes forwards beneath the zygomaticus major, and then, like the inferior coronary, courses tortuously along the lower margin of the uppei lip between the orbicularis oris and the mucous membrane about half an inch from the junction of the mucous membrane and the skin. It is usually larger than the inferior coronary. The superior coronary anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side, and gives off a small artery to the septum—arteria septum narium Compression of this vessel will sometimes control haemorrhage from the nose. In the operation for hare lip, the pin or suture should be passed sufficiently dee]: to transfix the divided coronary artery, or hemorrhage may continue into the moutk Bleeding from either coronary vessel can be readily controlled by the thumb and forefinger grasping the lip. (4) The lateral nasal artery (fig. 334) is a small twig or twigs given off from thf facial opposite the ala of the nose. It passes forwards over the ala and lower part o: the nose, supplying the integuments, muscles, and cartilages, and anastomoses witl the artery of the septum, the vessel of the opposite side, and the nasal branchei of the ophthalmic. (5) The angular artery (fig. 334) is the name given to the termination of th( facial artery. It anastomoses at the inner canthus of the eye with the nasa branch of the ophthalmic. It is accompanied by the anterior descending veil from the scalp. It lies to the inner side of the lachrymal sac, and supplie that structure and the lower part of the orbicularis oculi, beneath which a brand anastomoses with the infraorbital artery. The situation of the artery to the inne side of the lachrymal sac should be borne in mind in opening a lachrymal abscess 5. THE OCCIPITAL AETERY The occipital artery (fig. 335) is usually a vessel of considerable size. 1 comes off from the posterior part of the external carotid opposite the facial, or els a little higher than that vessel. It then winds upwards and backwards to th interval between the mastoid process of the temporal bone and transverse proces of the atlas, and, after running horizontally backwards in the occipital groo\' on the mastoid portion of the temporal bone, again turns upwards, and ends b ramifying in the scalp over the back of the skull, extending as far forwards as tb vertex. The vessel may be divided into three parts—viz. that internal to the sterm mastoid muscle ; that beneath the sterno-mastoid; and that external to the stern( mastoid. In the first part of its course the occipital artery is covered by the integumem and fascia, and is more or less overlapped by the posterior belly of the digastr: muscle, the parotid gland, and temporo-maxillary vein. It is crossed by the hyp glossal nerve as the latter winds forwards over the carotid vessels to reach the tonguj It successively crosses in front of the internal carotid artery, the hypoglossal nerv the pneumogastric nerve, the internal jugular vein, and the spinal accessory nerv In the second part of its course it sinks deeply beneath the digastric muse into the interval between the mastoid process of the temporal bone and the tran