686 TRE VEINS The popliteal vein is formed by the confluence of the ven^e comites of the anterior and posterior tibial arteries at the lower border of the popliteus, and extends upwards to the opening in the adductor magnus at the junction of the middle and lower third of the thigh, where it changes its name to femoral. It accompanies the popliteal artery, lying superficial to it in the whole of its course, and tightly bound down to it by its fascial sheath. At the lower part of the space it is a little internal to the artery, but, crossing the vessel obliquely as it ascends, lies a little external to it at the upper part of the space. The internal popliteal nerve lies superficial to the vein, being external to it above, then on it, and then a little to its inner side. The popliteal vein contains two or three valves. The chief variations of the popliteal are :—(1) It may lie between the artery and the bone. (2) It may be double through a part or the whole of the popliteal space. (3) Two veins by frequently uniting in front and behind the artery may form a kind of plexus around the vessel. (4) It may be shorter than usual in consequence of a high union of the tibial venge comites. The femoral vein, the continuation of the popliteal upwards, extends from the tendinous opening in the adductor magnus to an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament where it joins the profunda vein to form the common femoral vein. In this course its relations are similar to those of the superficial femoral artery. As the vein passes through Hunter's canal, it lies behind and a little external to the artery. At the apex of Scarpa's triangle it is still posterior to the artery, but gradually passes to the inner side as it ascends through that space. It contains three pairs of valves. The close connection of the vein to the artery should be remembered in the operation of ligature. The sheath should be opened on its inner side, that is, well over the artery, and the point of the aneurysm needle kept closely applied to the artery lest it perforate the overlapping vein. Tributaries.—(1) The venae comites of the anastomotica magna artery ; (2) the vense comites corresponding to the muscular branches of the femoral. The profunda or deep femoral vein accompanies the profunda or deep femoral artery, and receives the venae comites corresponding to its various branches. Unlike the other veins of the lower extremity, it lies in front of its companion artery, and is at first a little internal to it. It terminates by joining the super- ficial femoral vein about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament in the angle between the femoral and profunda arteries. It contains five valves. The common femoral vein is a short thick trunk corresponding to the common femoral artery. It is formed by the confluence of the superficial femoral and profunda veins about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament, and is con- tinued upwards to the lower border of that structure, where it takes the name of external iliac. It lies on the same plane as the common femoral artery, but internal to that vessel, from which it is separated by a delicate prolongation of fascia stretching between the front and back layers of the femoral sheath. Internally, it is separated by a similar septum of fascia from the crural canal. It usually contains two valves : one just above the junction with the profunda vein, the other just below Poupart's ligament (fig. 372). Tributary.—The long saphenous vein which reaches it by passing through the saphenous opening in the deep fascia. Chief variations.—(1) The femoral vein may be double in part or in whole of its length. (2) It may split into two and embrace the femoral artery. (3) It may pass through the adductor magnus above the femoral artery and run separate from the artery until it joins the profunda vein to form the common femoral vein. (4) It may run with the sciatic nerve and pierce the adductor magnus at the level of the lesser trochanter. When this occurs the femoral artery is usually very small, and the sciatic artery is the chief nutrient vessel of the thigh. The external iliac vein is the continuation upwards of the common femoral. Beginning at the lower border of Poupart's ligament it accompanies the external