342 THE MUSCLES Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the sixth and seventh cervical nerves) by filaments from the posterior interosseous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve which enter the upper part of the anterior surface of the muscle. Action.—(1) To extend the wrist; and (2) to feebly extend the elbow-joint. Relations.—It is covered by the extensor carpi radialis longior and the tendons of the three thumb extensors. It lies upon the supinator brevis, the pronator radii teres, the outer surface of the radius and the wrist joint. Variations.—Its muscular portion may be blended with that of the preceding muscle, or slips may pass between the muscles. The tendon is often divided, and may send ! separate insertions to the second and third metacarpal bones. MUSCLES OF THE BACK OF THE FOEEAEM The muscles upon the back of the forearm form two layers : the superficial, consisting of those arising from the back of the external condyle of the humerus ; and the deep layer, of those which, with one exception, arise from the bones of the forearm only. The superficial layer continues upon the back of the forearm the series of the radial extensors. It consists of four muscles : the extensor communis digitorum; the extensor minimi digiti; the extensor carpi ulnaris ; and the anconeus. I SuPEEFiciAL Layer 1. EXTENSOE COMMUNIS DIGITOKUM i The extensor communis digitorum—named from its common action upon the; four fingers—is fusiform and somewhat flattened, and divides below into fourj tendons. Origin.—(1) The common tendon from the lower part of the external condyle; (2) the deep fascia of the forearm ; and (3) the intermuscular septa which separate it from the extensor carpi radialis brevior, the extensor minimi digiti, and the supinator brevis. Insertion.—(1) The lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal joints of the four fingers; the back of the bases of (2) the second, and (3) the third phalanges of the four fingers. Structure.—Arising from the interior of the aponeurotic case formed by the deep fascia and the intermuscular septa, the fleshy fibres soon break up into separate; masses, and converge upon the four tendons which, beginning about the middle ofj the forearm, become free a short distance above the wrist, and lie side by side in thei fourth compartment of the posterior annular ligament; those for the ring and littlei fingers being more closely connected than the others. After their emergence at the' lower border of the ligament, the four tendons, which still retain their flattened j cylindrical shape, diverge to their respective fingers. Opposite the head of the meta carpal bones, each tendon gives off fibrous bands to the lateral ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. Upon the first phalanx the tendon expands into a broad aponeurosis which fits closely by its concave anterior surface upon the back of the bone and affords attachment by its lateral margins to other muscles. After passing over the back of the first phalangeal joint, the central portion of this aponeurosis is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, while its lateral