982 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION I Insertion.—Into the uvula. : Structure.—The muscle consists of two narrow parallel strips lying on eac side of the middle line of the palate. Nerve-supply.—Probably from the same source as the levator palati. Action.—To draw up the uvula. j The Mucous Membrane of the soft palate is continuous with that of the mout | on its anterior aspect, and with that of the nasal chamber on its posterior surface j its epithelium is columnar and ciliated in the vicinity of the Eustachian tube, bri elsewhere it is squamous and not ciliated. The glands form an especially thic I layer on its superior aspect. j Arterial supply of the soft palate.—(1) Ascending palatine of facial; (2) paki tine branch of ascending pharyngeal; (3) twigs from superior palatine of interna maxillary, which enter the smaller palatine canals, and are distributed to the soj| palate and tonsils, and communicate with the ascending palatine of the faci^ , artery; (4) lingual artery, by twigs from the dorsal branch. Nerves to the soft palate.—(1) Branches from Meckel's ganglion ('small o' posterior palatine' and 'external palatine nerve'); (2) tonsillitic branches c' glosso-pharyngeal nerve ; and (3) the nerA-es supplying the muscles (p. 981). i The TONSILS (figs. 507 and 560) are two bodies situated one in each of thili recesses between the anterior and posterior pillars of the fauces. They are show half an inch (15 mm.) in length, and one-third (8 mm.) in width and thickness ; bu their size is liable to considerable variation. ' On their inner surfaces are a number of puncture-like openings (twelve to fiftee: on each tonsil), which form the orifices of small recesses or crypts, into whic numerous follicles open. The mucous membrane is continued into, and forms ; lining for, these follicles ; and their walls are surrounded by an aggregation of closet; capsules somewhat similar to the solitary glands of the intestine, and containing ; thick secretion. The tonsil is in relation externally with the internal carotid and ascending pharyngeal arteries, the superior constrictor intervening, and its position correspond: to the angle of the lower jaw. i The arteries of the tonsil are five in number, viz. :—(1) Dorsalis linguae fron - the lingual; (2) ascending pharyngeal from the external carotid ; (3) ascendim palatine from the facial ; (4) tonsillar from the facial; and (5) descending palatiiK; from the internal maxillary. The veins of the tonsil form a plexus which occupies the outer side of the gland i The nerves of the tonsil are branches of the fifth and glosso-pharyngeal. ; THE SALIVARY GLANDS ' i The three chief salivary glands are the parotid, the submaxillary (mandibular) \ and the sublingual. These all pour their secretions into the cavity of the mouth j into which also open a number of smaller glands to mix their contents with tht ( saliva. : The PAEOTID GLAND, lying just below and in front of the ear—the largest o i the salivary glands—varies from a little over half an ounce to an ounce in weight. Its superficial area is limited above by the root of the zygoma ; behind, j the auditory meatus, the mastoid process, and the sterno-mastoid muscle with th( j posterior belly of the digastric; anteriorly, it extends for a varying distance ovei \