FLEXOB PBOFUNDUS DIGITOBUM 385 ery obliquely, it acts under a considerable mechanical disadvantage, but at the ame time the speed and range of movement corresponding to a slight contraction f the muscle are very great. The size of the angle which it makes with the shaft f the phalanx at its point of insertion is somewhat increased by the raising of its endon from the palmar aspect of the first phalanx by the tendon of the deep flexor, ifter bending the second phalanx of the finger, it will bend also the metacarpo- halangeal joint; then the three joints which together produce flexion of the wrist; ,nd finally it will feebly assist in the flexion of the elbow joint. Relations.—Superficially, the four muscles of the first sheet and the radial essels and nerves; deeply, the flexor longus pollicis, flexor profundus digitorum, ,nd pronator quadratus, the ulnar artery and vein, and the median nerve. In the 'land, it lies beneath the anterior annular ligament, the palmar fascia, and the luperficial palmar arch, and upon the tendons of the flexor profundus digitorum i^^ith the lumbricales. Variations.—The fiexor snblimis digitorum varies very little in its origin. It has been leen to arise partly from the pronator radii teres. Occasionally its tendon to the little jinger fails, and the place of this tendon may be taken by a linnbricalis or a special slip from he flexor profundus. Sometimes accessory heads join the tendons in the hand from the lexor profundus or the annular ligament. Thied Layer The third layer consists of two muscles—the flexor profundus digitorum and the lexer longus pollicis—which arise from the ulna and radius respectively. 1. FLEXOK PROFUNDUS DIGITORUM 1 The flexor profundus digitorum—named from its action upon the fingers and jts relation to their superficial flexor—is a strong fusiform sheet of muscular fibres ,vhich wraps round the anterior and inner surfaces of the ulna, and divides below iito four tendons for the fingers. Origin.—-(1) The upper three-fourths of the anterior surface of the ulna ; and 2) the adjacent part of the interosseous membrane ; (3) the upper two-thirds [)f the inner surface of the ulna ; and (4) the posterior ridge of that bone by the iponeurosis common to it, the flexor carpi ulnaris, and the extensor carpi ulnaris. ! Insertion.—The front of the bases of the third phalanges of the four fingers. Structure.—Arising directly from the bones and fibrous structures which form the origin of the muscle, the fleshy fibres converge below upon the back of four Itendons, which, appearing about the middle of the forearm, become free at the ;apper border of the anterior annular ligament. That part of the muscle which is linserted into the index finger is separable from the rest of the muscle in nearly the whole of its extent; the part to the little finger is also generally more separable jfchan that to the other two fingers. As they pass beneath the anterior annular ligament, the tendons are invested by the common synovial sheath. At the meta- carpo-phalangeal joints they enter the vaginal sheaths belonging to their respec- tive fingers. Opposite the first phalangeal joint each tendon passes through the opening formed by the splitting of the flexor sublimis tendon ; and on the palmar aspect of the second phalanx it passes over a slight elevation formed by the union lof the two halves of the companion tendon before they are inserted into the sides jof the second phalanx. The deep tendon finally passes over the second phalangeal point, to be inserted into the front of the base of the third phalanx. In the palm of the hand the lumbricales (which will afterwards be described) arise from the tendons of the flexor profundus.