122 THE SKELETON The spine commences at the posterior border of the scapula by a broad triangular surf ace ; it then crosses the dorsal surface obliquely to the glenoid fossa, becoming more prominent as it passes outwards till it reaches the neck of the scapula; from this point it forms the overhanging acromion process. The spine presents a superior surface which gives origin to the supra-sjpinatus muscle, and an inferior surface which affords origin to the infra-sinnatus muscle. It has a prominent crest, which is continuous posteriorly with the vertebral border, and, at its commencement, is smooth for a bursa between it and the tra^jezius. The crest is subcutaneous, and presents two lips—a superior for the insertion of the trapezius, and an inferior lip for the origin of the deltoid. The crest is continued into the acromion process. The acromion process forms the summit of the shoulder, and presents two surfaces, two borders, and a tip. The upper surface affords origin at its posterior part to a portion of the deltoid. The under surface is concave and smooth. Its inner border, a continuation of the superior lip of the crest^ receives the trapezius^ and presents near the tip a small articular facet for the outer end of the clavicle; the edges of the facet are rough for the acromio-clavicular ligaments. The outer border is continuous with the inferior lip of the crest, with which it forms an angle ; it gives origin to the deltoid. The tip of the acromion affords attachment to the coraco-acromial ligament. Of the three borders presented by the scapula, the external, or axillary, is the thickest, and extends from the posterior inferior angle to the lower margin of the glenoid cavity. Near its junction with the glenoid cavity there is a rough surface, from which the long head of the ti^iceps arises ; below this is the groove for the dorsal artery of the scapula. The suhscapularis muscle encroaches on this border from the anterior surface, and the teretes from the posterior aspect. The posterior, or vertebral, border, sometimes called the base, is the longest; it extends from the posterior superior to the posterior inferior angle. It is very narrow, but affords attachment to three muscles : namely, the levator angidi scapulce, above the spine ; the rhomboideus minor on a level with the spine ; and the rhomboideus major, through the intervention of a fibrous arch from the spine to the inferior angle. The superior border is the shortest and thinnest, ending externally in the cora- coid process. At the base of the coracoid is the suprascapular notch, to the edges of Avhich the transverse ligament is attached. Not infrequently the notch is replaced by a suprascapular foramen. This notch or foramen transmits the suprascapular nerve, and occasionally the suprascapular artery, but as a rule the artery passes over the ligament. From the adjacent borders of the notch and from the ligament, the omo-hyoid takes origin. The anterior angle of the scapula is formed by the glenoid cavity. This cavity is shallow and pyriform, with its major axis vertical; the lower end is the broader ; the upper end or apex gives origin to the long tendon of the biceps. The margins are raised, and afford attachment to the glenoid ligament. In the recent state, the cavity is covered with hyaline cartilage, and forms an articular fossa for the head of the humerus. The margin is somewhat defective where it is overarched by the acromion. The circumference is rough for the attachment of the capsular ligament. Beyond this is a narrow constricted portion, called the neck of the scapula. Projecting upwards from the neck is the coracoid process, a prominence of bone anterior to, but parallel with, the acromion. The tip of the coracoid gives origin to the sho7'-t tendon of the biceps, the coraco-brachialis muscle, and the costo^ coracoid ligament. The superior surface affords attachment to thepectoralis minor muscle, and to the coraco-clavicular ligaments (conoid and trapezoid). The outer border has attached to it the coraco-acromial ligament.