PELVIC FASCIA AND MUSCLES 1103 ^he ischio-rectal fossa must then be described as an anvil- or T-shaped cavity with nterior and posterior recesses running the one above the perin^eal ledge, the other bove the sacro-sciatic ligaments. Contents.—The ischio-rectal fossa is filled with loose adipose tissue continuous ath the subcutaneous fat of the buttock, and traversed from without inwards by tie inferior haemorrhoidal branches of the pudic artery, and by the associated veins nd some twigs of the internal pudic nerve passing to the sphincter ani and adjacent kin and mucous membrane. ' The veins are usually somewhat dilated near the anal margin, and when lorbidly enlarged constitute the condition known as haemorrhoids or piles, fear the posterior border of the triangular ligaments the pudic vessels and Esrves give off their superficial perinseal branches, which almost immediately ter the superficial perinfeal interspace. A small branch of the fourth sacral nerve may be seen turning over the back of e space to reach the anal integument. I Fig. 653.—Section showing the Ischio-rectal Fossa in its Eelations to THE Pelvic Viscera. OS PUBIS Muscles. levator ani with reeto-vesieal and ischio-rectal fasciae Obturator internus Internal pudic vessels and NERVES in ohturaior fascia TUBER ISCHII Ischio-rectal fossa witli its anterior and posterior ex- tensions Gluteus maximus THE PERINEUM PROPER The perinseum proper (fig. 647, 652), considered apart from the portion of the iommon integument which covers it in, is a curious triangular ledge of tissue stretched almost horizontally across the angular interval between the two ischio- 3ubic rami. It is pierced by the urethra (and also by the vagina in the female), and comprises three strong fasciae which enclose within two interfascial spaces the root )f the penis with the muscles appended to it, the compressor urethra muscle, 3owper's glands, and a number of vessels and nerves. Above it lie the prostate and evatores ani with their fasciae, and the anterior recess of each ischio-rectal fossa. The perinaeal integument has already been described. On removal of the skin ^ith its dartos and the superficial layers of superficial fascia, a deeper plane of fascia ivill be exposed, connected firmly with the ischio-pubic rami. This is the fascia of polles (the deep layer of the superficial perinaeal fascia), the most superficial of the phree true perinseal fasciae. I The fascia of Colles is a fibrous lamina of considerable strength. It is attached