THE SKELETON 52 OS planum. The posterior border of each orbital plate articulates with the lesser wing of the sphenoid (orbito-splienoid), and is continuous with a rough triangular surface for the greater wing (ali-sphenoid). This triangular surface is continuous anteriorly with the serrated malar ridge of the sphenoid, and, laterally, with that border of the bone which articulates with the parietals to form the coronal suture. Between the ethmoidal notch and the inner margin of the orbital surface there is an irregular surface which forms the roofs of the ethmoidal cells. Articulations.—The frontal articulates with the parietal, sphenoid, ethmoid, lachrymal, malar, maxilla, and nasal bones. With the epipterics when present, and occasionally (as explained on page 41) with the squamosal, and with the sphenoidal turbinal when it creeps into the orbit. It has the following onuscles attached to it:— The blood-supply.—Arterial twigs derived from the middle and small meningeal arteries enter it on the cerebral, and branches from the frontal and supraorbital arteries on the outer surface. The horizontal plate derives twigs from the ethmoidal and other branches of the ophthalmic artery. Ossification.—The frontal develops from two earthy spots deposited in the outer layer of the dura mater, in the situations ultimately known as the frontal emin- ences. These nuclei appear about the eighth week, and quickly spread through the membrane. At birth the bones are quite distinct. Subsequently they articulate with each other in the median line to form the metopic suture. In a few cases the bones remain distinct throughout life. In the majority of cases the suture is obliterated; ankylosis commences about the sixth year. In adult skulls, traces of the metopic suture may often be seen in the region of the glabella. After the two halves of the bone have united, osseous material is deposited at the lower end of the metopic suture to form the nasal spine, which is one of the distinguishing features of the human frontal bone. The spine appears about the twelfth year, and soon consolidates with the bone above. Accessory nuclei are sometimes seen between this bone and the lachrymal ; they may persist as Wormian ossicles. The frontal sinuses appear about the seventh year as prolongations from the anterior ethmoidal cells. Occasionally they invade the horizontal plate, and extend over the roof of the orbit. Corrugator supercilii. Temporal. 0 ccipito - frontalis. Orbicularis palpebrarum. Fig. 61.—The Frontal Bone at Birth.