790 THE NERVOUS SYSTEM They are divided into two groups, an outer and an inner. Both groups ramify between the periosteum and the deep surface of the mucous membrane. The outer group, twelve to twenty in number (Valentin), enter the nose through the outer series of foramina in the cribriform plate, and form a richly-meshed plexus on the | upper surfaces of the superior and middle turbinated bones. The inner group, | twelve to sixteen in number (Valentin), pass through the inner series of foramina | close to the crista galli, and on entering the nose are lodged at first in grooves on the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone. They communicate with one another, forming a plexus, and finally break up into spreading tufts of extremely fine filaments. SECOND OE OPTIC NEKVES ! The optic nerves appear at the base of the brain as a pair of round white I cords, which arise from the optic chiasma. From the posterior aspect of the • latter structure, two somewhat similar cords, the optic tracts, pass backw^ards and I outwards. Each optic nerve is continuous, through the chiasma, with both optic i tracts. It will be convenient to trace first the central connections of the optic nerves through the optic tracts, and afterwards to follow the nerves forwards from 1 the optic chiasma to the eyeball. I The optic chiasma or commissure rests upon the optic groove, on the superior \ surface of the sphenoid bone. It is in relation above with the third ventricle, j being separated only by a thin layer of grey matter from that cavity. The internal j carotid arteries are close to its outer sides. | Constitution of the optic chiasma.—Four sets of fibres have been described in | the optic chiasma, namely : (a) Fibres from one optic tract to the optic nerve of the i same side; (b) fibres from one optic tract to the optic nerve of the opposite side ; ; (c) commissural fibres passing from one optic tract to its fellow of the opposite side; and (d) fibres from one optic nerve to the nerve of the opposite side. The | existence of the first three sets is well ascertained. The fourth set is now very j generally believed to have been erroneously described, {a) The uncrossed fibres | proceed from the lateral or temporal half of the retina of the same side. They j occupy the outer part of the chiasma. (b) The crossed fibres, w^hich form the j largest constituent of the chiasma, are derived from the mesial or nasal half of | the retina, and pass into the optic tract of the opposite side, (c) The commissural ! fibres occupy the back part of the chiasma. They have nothing to do with vision, i Two sets are described under the names of Gudden's and Meynert's commissures. ' The optic tract passes backwards and outwards along the outer side of the j tuber cinereum, and then passes under cover of the temporal lobe, winding around ; the crus cerebri. As it applies itself to the latter, it adheres to it, and becomes flattened from above dowmwards. It next inclines upwards, and divides into an external and an internal root. These roots proceed towards the external and j internal geniculate bodies, respectively. The internal root contains the fibres of ; Gudden's commissure. A portion of the external root becomes connected wdth the nerve-cells in the ; -external geniculate body ; another part enters the pulvinar of the optic thalamus, | while a third part passes in the superior brachium to the superior quadrigeminal j body of the same side. ! The fibres of the optic nerve are therefore interrupted in the ganglion cells of \ the external geniculate body, the pulvinar of the optic thalamus, and the superior. i quadrigeminal body ; hence, these three bodies are said to contain the nuclei of i origin of the optic nerve. Other fibres, however, collectively termed the optic radiation, pass out of these three bodies, and pass through the most posterior part J of the inner capsule to the occipital lobe, and thus the cortical origin of the optic |