THE ARTICULATIONS 188 2. Ginglymus, or hinge-joint, where the ends of the bones are so adapted to each other as to allow motion in two directions, namely flexion and extension; the most perfect of them are the elbow and ankle. The knee has some gliding and rotatory motion, and is not a perfect hinge-joint, but ginglymo-arthrodial. 3. Enarthrodia, or ball-and-socket joint, where the enlarged head of one bone is received into a socket adapted to it on the other, as in the hip and shoulder joints. They are the most movable of all the joints, combining movements in all directions with axial rotation. 4. Trochoides, or pulley joints : this term is applied where either a pivot revolves in a ring, as in the superior radio-ulnar ; or the ring revolves about a pivot, as in the central atlanto-axoidean joint. I. 11. III. Table op the Vaeious Classes of Joints Class. Synarthrosis (a) True sutures {h) False sutures (c) Grooved sutures Amphiarthrosis . Diarthrosis {a) Arthrodia (b) Ginglymus (c) Ginglymo-arthrodia id) Enarthrodia (c) Trochoides, diarthrosis >| rotatoria, or lateral j- ginglymus. Exami^les. Lambdoid, sagittal, coronal. Internasal. Intermaxillary. Costo-chon- dral. Vomer and rostrum of sphenoid. Bodies of vertebrae. Symphysis pubis, sacro-iliac, sacro-coccygeal. Carpal, tarsal, carpo-metacarpal, tarso- metatarsal, intermetacarpal, and inter- metatarsal. Costo-transverse. Inter- chondral (i.e. between costal cartilages). Sterno - clavicular, acromio - clavicular. Tibio-fibular. Lateral atlanto-axoidean; and the j oints between articular processes of vertebrae. Elbow, ankle, wrist (double ginglymus). Metacarpo- and metatarso-phalangeah Interphalangeal. Temporo-mandibular. Occipito-atlantal. Knee. Shoulder. Hip. Central atlanto-axoidean. Superior and inferior radio-ulnar. THE VAEIOUS MOVEMENTS OF JOINTS The movements which may take place at a joint are either gliding, angular, rotatory, or circumductory. The gliding motion is the simplest, and is common to all diarthrodial joints : it consists of a simple sliding of the apposed surfaces of the bones upon one another, without angular or rotatory motion. It is the only kind of motion permitted in the carpal and tarsal joints, and in those between the articular processes of the vertebrae. The angular motion is more elaborate, and increases or diminishes the angle between different parts. There are four varieties, viz.: flexion mid extension, which