THE ARTICULATIONS 248 The arterial supply is derived from the anterior and posterior carpal arches, the posterior di^-ision of the anterior interosseous, from twigs direct from the radial and ulnar arteries, and from recurrent branches from the first dorsal interosseous. The nerve-supply is derived from the ulnar and median in front, and the posterior i interosseous behind. ! Movements.—The wrist is a double hinge joint, allowing movements round a | transverse axis, i.e. flexion and extension ; and around an antero-posterior axis, i.e. i abduction and adduction; together with a combination of these in quick succession i —circumduction. Lacking only rotation on a vertical axis, it thus possesses > most of the movements of a ball-and-socket joint, wdthout the weakness and ^ Fig. 233.—Front of AVrist with Anterior Annular Ligament. Anterior radio-ulnar ligament Internal lateral ligament of wrist with slip to annular ligament PlSIFORr Anterior annular ligament Anterior radio-carpal ligament Tendon of the flexor carpi radialis liability to dislocation which are peculiar to these joints. This deficiency of rotation is compensated for by the movements of the radius at the radio-ulnar joints, viz. supination and pronation. Its strength depends chiefly upon the number of tendons which pass over it, and the close connection which exists between the fibrous tissue of their sheaths and the capsule of the wrist; also upon the proximity of the medio-carpal and carpo-metacarpal joints, which permits shocks and jars to be shared and distributed between them ; another source of strength is the absence of any long bone on the distal side of the joint. Li flexion and extension the carpus rolls forwards and backwards beneath the arch formed by the radius and fibro-cartilage; flexion being limited by the posterior Hgament and posterior portions of the lateral; extension by the anterior, and anterior portions of the lateral ligaments. Li adduction and alxluction, the carpal bones ghde from