350 THE MUSCLES deep groove which forms the third compartment beneath that ligament. At tb lower extremity of this canal it crosses obliquely the two radial extensor tender at the back of the wrist joint, and upon the back of the first metacarpal bone it Ht in close contact with the inner border of the tendon of the preceding muscle, an expands into a fiat and broad aponeurosis which covers the back of the fir; ^ phalanx before its insertion into the last phalanx. Whilst spread over the conve surface of the shaft of the first phalanx, it receives small tendinous insertions froi the abductor and adductor muscles of the ball of the thumb. j ^ The three tendons of the extensor muscles of the thumb enclose a triangnlsj space which is visible upon the outer side of the wrist joint, and is bounded by tt ^ tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the extensor brevis pollic' upon its radial side, by the tendon of the extensor longus pollicis upon its uhu! ' side, and above by the lower end of the radius. Across this triangle stretches til ^'^ radial artery, in its passage beneath the tendons from the anterior surface of tl' fs wrist to the upper part of the back of the first interosseous space. i si Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through tli seventh cervical nerve), by branches from the posterior interosseous division of tL musculo-spiral nerve which enter the upper part of the muscle upon its superfici| aspect. I Action.—It is (1) a strong extensor of the second phalangeal joint of the thuml: and afterwards (2) of the first phalanx. It will (3) extend, and at the same tin! adduct, the first metacarpal bone so as to draw the whole thumb in the extend({ |[ position backwards, and at the same time inwards. It will also (4) assist in tl: |^ extension of the wrist, and (5) in the supination of the forearm. j Relations.—Superficially, the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor corj ,^ munis digitorum, extensor minimi digiti, extensor carpi ulnaris, posterior inte '--^ osseous artery, and posterior annular ligament; deeply, the radial extensors, t] 'jj radial artery, wrist, metacarpo-phalangeal, and phalangeal joints. ^ Variations.—This muscle may send a slip to the base of the first phalanx of the thuro l It may also receive a tendinous slip from the following muscle. I 5. EXTENSOE INDICIS The extensor indieis—named from its action upon the index finger—is flat ai fusiform. I Origin.—(1) An elongated impression which stretches downwards and slight outwards from the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the outer division the posterior surface of the ulna, immediately internal to the impression for t preceding muscle, but at the same time rather lower down, to within about an in of the lower extremity of that bone. (2) For a short space from the part of t interosseous ligament Avhich is adjacent to the lower part of this impressic (3) The septum betAveen it and the preceding muscle. Insertion.—The inner side of the aponeurosis of the first tendon of the extent communis digitorum. Structure.—This penniform muscle arises by fleshy fibres which pass obliqut/ dowuAvards and outwards to the anterior surface of a tendon which is first se|i upon the radial border of its posterior surface in the lower third of the forearm, aij, becoming free just above the wrist, passes beneath the tendon of the exten^r minimi digiti, and enters the fourth compartment of the posterior annular ligame ' where it lies beneath the inner tendons of the extensor communis digitoru It is then inserted into the inner edge of the aponeurosis of the tendon of t common extensor belonging to the index finger, at about the level of the metacar] phalangeal joint.