THE TONGUE By AETHUR HENSMAN, F.R.C.S. LECTURER OX ANATOMY AT THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL MEDICAL COLLEGE; AND SURGEON TO THE THROAT AND EAR DEPARTMENT OP THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL. The tongue is a freely movable, highly sensitive, and muscular organ, and is ndowed with the special sense of taste. It participates, moreover, in the function of speech, and plays an important part in mastication and deglutition. Its upper surface, or dorsum, with its sides and tip, are free, whilst its base is attached by muscles to the hyoid bone and lower jaw. Folds of mucous membrane loosely connect it with the epiglottis and soft palate, as well as with the symphysis iof the lower jaw. From beneath its rounded borders the mucous covering becomes [continuous with the inner surface of the gums. The anterior two-thirds of the [tongue occupies the floor of the mouth, lying between the halves of the lower jaw, with its convex dorsum overarched by the vault of the palate, and its sides and tip |in contact with the teeth and gums. The posterior third of the dorsum forms a ounded surface overhanging the epiglottis. The mucous membrane, which is really a modified skin, covers the whole of the {free surface of the tongue. It forms three folds: the glosso-epiglottidean in con- nection with the epiglottis ; and on each side of the median fold—^fraenum epiglot- tidis—is formed the glosso-epiglottidean pouch, or vallecula, which is bounded ^xternally by the more rounded lateral folds. On each side of the tongue, near the function of the posterior and middle] third, the membrane ascends to form the anterior pillars of the fauces, and in front beneath the tip it forms the sharp fold of the frsenum linguae (fig. 509). A slight longitudinal groove, the median raphe, divides the dorsum of the tongue along its anterior two-thirds. It ends posteriorly near a small foramen, [the foramen csBCum, which represents the upper termination of the thyro-glossal !uct. The orifice, however, is not at all constant in the adult tongue, although ccasionally it is present, and may sometimes lead into the still patent duct which imnels the tongue as far as the body of the hyoid bone. The course of the bliterated duct may in many cases be demonstrated. The foramen c^cum is easily seen in the foetus at the angle of meeting of two tallow grooves which form the V-shaped line behind the circumvallate papillse. 'his groove indicates the line of junction of the anterior and posterior portions of phe tongue, and is faintly visible in the adult organ. The papilla crowd the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum as well as the sides md tip of the tongue, but at the back they are small and hidden by the epithelial eating. Of the papillae three chief kinds can be distinguished. The circumvallate or calyciform papillae are the largest, but they are few in lumber, varying from seven or eight to twelve, and they form a V-shaped line in -ront of and parallel with the groove already mentioned.