725 FRONTAL AND PABIETAL LOBES and is often connected to these convolutions by secondary gyri passing across the superior and inferior frontal fissures. The inferior frontal convolution is continuous behind with the ascending frontal, and joins the external orbital gyrus around the orbital margin. The ascending and anterior limbs of the fissure of Sylvius cut into the substance of this convolution, and divide it into three parts, viz. pars orbitalis, pars triangularis, and pars basilaris. The pars orbitalis is situated below the anterior limb of the Sylvian fissure. The pars triangularis is included between the ascending and anterior limbs of the fissure. The pars basilaris is placed behind the ascending limb of the Sylvian fissure between the latter and the inferior praecentral sulcus. This convolution is of great physiological interest, as the faciilt^^ of articulate speech is localised in its posterior part (Broca's convolution). Disease of this limited portion of brain substance on the left side produces aphasia, except in left-handed persons, in whom the speech-centre is placed in the corresponding position on the right side. The speech-centre is limited to the pars basilaris. According to Ferrier, the speech-centre includes (in addition to the above) the inferior extremity of the ascending frontal convolution and a small part of the ascending parietal immediately behind the lower end of the fissm-e of Eolando. The orbital surface of the frontal lobe appears flattened in brains hardened in the ordinary manner; but when the brain is hardened in situ (fig. 410) it pre- sents a very characteristic concavity, being moulded on the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The outer half of the orbital surface looks directly downwards, but the inner half, following the curve of the orbital plate, looks much more outwards than downwards, and forms a tolerably sharp edge where it meets the internal surface. Two fissures are situated on this surface, viz. the triradiate and the olfactory. The triradiate fissure, as its name implies, is formed by three branches, which radiate from a common point. One branch is directed forwards, another backwards and inwards, and the third outwards. Another branch frequently springs from the external division near its centre, and in such cases the triradiate fissure assumes an H-shaped outline. The olfactory or straight sulcus is placed a short distance external to the great longitudinal fissure, and lodges the olfactory tract and bulb. The convolutions on the orbital surface comprise the three orbital convolutions and the straight convolution. The orbital convolutions are wedge-shaped masses placed between the limbs of the triradiate fissure. They are called, from their position, internal, anterior, and posterior. They are continuous with the superior, middle, and inferior frontal convolutions respectively. The straight convolution, or gyrus rectus, is situated between the sulcus of the same name and the margin of the great longitudinal fissure. It is continuous in front with the superior frontal convolution, and on the inner margin of the hemisphere with the marginal gyrus. It is sometimes described as a part of the internal orbital convolution. The convolutions on the internal surface of the frontal lobe are the marginal and the paracentral. The student is recommended to defer the study of these till a later period (page 731). The PARIETAL LOBE occupies the portion of the convex surface betvreen the frontal and occipital lobes and above the temporal lobe. It is bounded in front by the fissure of Eolando. Internally it is continued into the mesial surface of the hemi- sphere, where it is marked off from the adjacent lobes by the upturned end of the calloso-marginal fissure in front, by the internal parieto-occipital fissure behind, and more obscurely below by the variable sulcus subparietalis. On the convex surface of the hemisphere the posterior limits of the parietal lobe are in a great