THE SKELETON 102 convex on the outer siu-face. The parietal emmence, which indicates the spot in which the ossification of the bone commenced, is large and conspicuous. The grooves for blood- sinuses, as in other cranial bones, are absent. Each angle of the parietal is in relation with a fontanelle. As in the adult, the anterior inferior angle of the bone is prolonged downwards towards the ali-sphenoid. The ethmoid consists of two lateral portions separated by the still cartilaginous ethmo- vomerine plate. The ethmoid cells are represented by shallow depressions, and the uncinate process is undeveloped. Fig. 108.—Temporal Bone at Birth. (Inner view.) The sphenoidal turbinals are two small triangular pieces of bone lying in the peri- chondrium on each side of the ethmo-vomerine plate near its jimction with the pre- sphenoid. (Indicated by the * in fig. 103.) The maxilla presents the following characters :—The maxillo-premaxillary suture is visible on the palatine aspect of the bone. The alveolar border presents five sockets for teeth. The infraorbital foramen communicates with the floor of the orbit by a deep fissure ; this fissure sometimes persists in the adult. The antrum is a shallow groove. The mandible at birth consists of two halves united by fibrous tissue in the line of the future symphysis. Each half is a bony trough lodging teeth. The trough is divided by thin osseous partitions into five compartments : of these, the fifth is the largest, and is often subdivided by a ridge of bone. The floor is traversed by a furrow as far forward Fig. 109.—The Frontal at Birth. as the fourth socket (that for the first milk molar), where it timis outwards at the mental foramen. This furrow lodges the mandibular (inferior dental) nerve and artery, which enter by the large mandibular foramen. The condyle is on a level with the mental extremity of the bone. The palate bones differ mainly fi^om the adult bone in that the vertical and horizontal plates are of the same length; thus the nasal foss£e in the foetus are as wide as they are high, whereas in the adult the height of each nasal fossa greatly exceeds the width.