846 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM The anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen are the terminal branches of the I lower intercostal nerves, and pierce the anterior part of the sheath of the rectus to | supply the skin covering that muscle. These nerves are of small size, and sometimes j divide before their emergence, so as to form a double series. | D. Last thoracic nerve.—This nerve gives off a communicating twig to the first | lumbar nerve, and then passes through the external arcuate ligament, and runs j outwards below the twelfth rib. It pierces the posterior aponeurosis of the trans- | versalis, and follows the curve of the abdominal wall between the transversalis and 1 internal oblique muscles. In the remainder of its course it resembles a lower | intercostal nerve. After piercing the rectus, however, it supplies the pyramidalis | (Griffin). Its lateral cutaneous branch remains undivided, and represents the [ anterior division of an ordinary lateral cutaneous branch. On account of its ■ distribution, it is named the iliac branch. The iliac branch pierces the external I oblique about three inches above the iliac crest, and is directed dowmwards, across i the crest, a short distance behind the anterior superior spine. It ends in the ' integument covering the anterior part of the gluteal region. ■ LUMBAR NERVES I The anterior divisions of the five lumbar nerves increase progressively in size from above downwards, the first lumbar being about the size of an intercostal nerve, and the fifth a nerve of considerable magnitude. The first, second, third, and part of the fourth nerves unite to form the lumbar plexus. The remainder of the fourth unites with the fifth to form the lumbo-sacral cord, which passes to the sacral plexus. Each lumbar nerve is connected to the gangliated cord of the sympathetic by rami communicantes. These rami communicantes reach the lumbar nerves by accompanying the lumbar arteries through the fibrous arches from which the psoas takes origin. LUMBAR PLEXUS | The lumbar plexus is placed among the deeper fibres of the psoas, and is con- stituted as follows : the first lumbar nerve is joined by a communicating twig from j the twelfth thoracic and divides into two branches ; one of these is the common ! origin of the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves ; the other branch unites with a branch of the second lumbar to form the genito-crural nerve. The second, 1 third, and fourth lumbar nerves divide into anterior and posterior divisions. A part | of the anterior division of the second lumbar nerve enters into the composition of j the genito-crural nerve as above mentioned ; the remainder of the anterior division i of the second nerve unites with the anterior division of the third and part of the . fourth nerve to form the obturator nerve. The remainder of the anterior division i of the fourth nerve enters the lumbo-sacral cord. The posterior divisions of the , second, third, and fourth nerves end chiefly in two large nerves—the external cuta- ; neous and the anterior crural. The external cutaneous arises from the second and ' third nerves. The anterior crural springs from the second, third, and fourth nerves, j A part of the posterior division of the fourth nerve enters the lumbo-sacral cord. \ The large terminal branches above described are given off within the substance , of the psoas; three of these, the ilio-hypogastric, ilio-inguinal, and external cuta- j neous, appear at the outer border of the psoas, between that muscle and the j quadratus lumborum ; one, the genito-crural, pierces the anterior fibres of the psoas and appears in front of the muscle ; another branch, the obturator, appears at the j inner border of the psoas close to the lower margin of the fifth lumbar vertebra ; |