\ 464 THE MUSCLES compressing- the air contained in it, as in using the blowpipe or playing the cornet; or forcing inwards the food when, in mastication, any portion of it has escaped into that part of the mouth which is external to the bicuspids and molar teeth. Relations.— Superficially, the skin, subcutaneous fat, Steno's duct, the zygo- maticus major, risorius, a large mass of fat (the buccal fat-pad) which separates the buccinator from the masseter, and a layer of deep fascia continuous with that which covers the upper part of the pharynx ; deeply, the mucous membrane of the mouth. The upper part of the muscle is perforated by Steno's duct. The buccinator is almost continuous behind with the superior constrictor, from which it is only separated by the tendinous intersection of the pterygo-maxillary ligament. Angular Muscles of the Mouth The angular series are four in number : viz. the zygomaticus major, levator anguli oris, risorius, and depressor anguli oris. Two descend to the corner of the mouth obliquely from above, one runs almost horizontally forwards, and one ascends from below. They blend at the corner of the mouth, and form there a thick muscular mass, behind which is a depression filled up with the fat covering the buccinator. In a lean face this depression is often very conspicuous, and in some faces its position is indicated by a dimple when the zygomaticus major contracts. 1. ZYGOMATICUS MAJOR The zygomaticus major—named from its origin from the zygoma and its size- is ribbon-shaped, and belongs to the first layer of the muscles. Origin.—The outer surface of the malar bone near the zygomatic suture. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin, and the subcutaneous tissue at the outer extremity of the upper lip, and just external to the commissure of the lips. Structure.—Arising by short tendinous fibres, the muscle forms a fleshy band which passes downwards and forwards to the meeting-point of the angular muscles at and external to the angle of the mouth, where it blends with the orbicularis oris and the other angular muscles, its outermost fibres passing into the outer fibres of the depressor anguli oris. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial nerve, which enters the middle of its deep surface. Action.—To draw upwards and outwards the corners of the mouth, as in smiling or laughter. When it is strongly contracted, it throws into prominence the soft parts of the cheek in front of the malar bone, raises the lower eyelid, and produces 'crow's-feet,' as the wrinkles are called which radiate outwards from the outer canthus. When both muscles act together, the mouth is widened, and the upper lip raised so as to show the upper teeth, in what is called a ' broad grin.' Relations.—Superficially, the skin ; deeply, the buccinator and facial part of the orbicularis oris, the facial and transverse facial arteries, the facial vein, and some branches of the facial nerve. 2. LEVATOR ANGULI ORIS The levator anguli oris—named from its action upon the corner of the mouth —is a triangular sheet and belongs to the second stratum of the facial muscles. Origin.—The canine fossa of the maxilla.