THE TARSAL JOINTS 285 The synovial membrane is the same as that of the astragalo-scaphoid joint. The arteries and nerves are derived from the same sources as those of the medio- tarsal joints. {b) The Articulations of the Anterior Part of the Tarsus Class. —DiartJirosis. Subdivision.—Arthroclia. These include (i) the cubo-scaphoid; (ii) scapho-cuneiform ; (iii) intercunei- Eorm ; and (iv) cubo-cuneiform joints. (i) The Cubo-scajjJioid Union I The ligaments which unite the cuboid and scaphoid are : ~- Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous. The dorsal cubo-scaphoid ligament (fig. 256) runs forwards and outwards from the outer end of the dorsal surface of the scaphoid to the middle third of the inner border of the cuboid on its dorsal aspect, passing ov6r the posterior external angle of the external cuneiform bone. It is wider externally. The plantar cubo-scaphoid ligament is a well-marked strong band, which runs forwards and outwards, from the plantar surface of the scaphoid to the depression on the inner surface of the cuboid, and slightly into the plantar surface just below it. j The interosseous cubo-scaphoid ligament is a strong band which passes between the apposed surfaces of these bones from the dorsal to the plantar ligaments. Some of its posterior fibres reach the plantar surface of the foot behind the cubo- j scaphoid ligament, and radiate outwards and backwards over the inner border of I the cuboid to blend with the anterior extremity of the short calcaneo-cuboid ligament. (ii) The Scapho-cuneiform Articulation The ligaments uniting the scaphoid with the three cuneiform bones are:— j Dorsal. Plantar. Internal. The dorsal scapho-cuneiform ligament is very strong, and stretches as a con- tinuous structure on the dorsal surface of the scaj)hoid, between the tubercle of the scaphoid on the inner side, and the dorsal cubo-scaphoid ligament externally, passing forwards and a little outwards to the dorsal surfaces of the three cuneiform bones. The internal scapho-cuneiform ligament is a very strong thick band which connects the tubercle of the scaphoid with the inner surface of the internal cunei- form bone. It is continuous with the dorsal and plantar ligaments. Its lower border touches the tendon of the tibialis ^^osticus. The plantar scapho-cuneiform ligament forms, like the dorsal, a continuous structure extending between the plantar surfaces of the bones. Its fibres pass [forwards and outwards. It is in relation below with the tendon of the tibialis iwsticus. It must be noticed that the expanded tendon of insertion of the tibialis posticus^ and the ligaments uniting the scaphoid with the cuboid and cuneiform bones pass forwards and outwards, while the ^^eroneus longus tendon and the ligaments uniting the first and second rows of bones, except the inner half of the dorsal astragalo-scaphoid ligaments, pass forwards and inwards. This arrangement is admirabl}' adapted to preserve the arches of the foot, and especially the transverse arch. Had these tendons and ligaments run directly forward,, all the strain on the transverse arch would have fallen on the interosseous ligaments, but as it is, the arch is braced up by the above-mentioned structures.