890 OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE In the iris there is a system of lymphatic spaces opening anteriorly on its free surface by the crypts previously described, and communicating peripherally with the spaces of Fontana. 2. Posteriorly, we have (a) the central or hyaloid canal, between the poste- rior pole of the lens and the optic nerve entrance, and (b) the perivascular canals of the retina ; the lymph from both of these situations flows into the spaces of the optic nerve, which communicate with the intervaginal space of the nerve, and thus with the great intracranial spaces. Further, between choroid and sclerotic, we have (c) the perichoroidal space, which gets the lymph from the choroid, and communicates with Tenon's space outside the sclerotic by the perforations corre- sponding to the vasa vorticosa and posterior ciliary arteries, and with the interva- ginal space around the optic nerve entrance. Tenon's space, again, is continuous with the supravaginal space around the optic nerve, which communicates both with the intervaginal.ispaces, with the lymph spaces of the orbit, and directly with the intracranial spaces at the apex of the orbit. Fig. 481.—Left Eyeball seen in its Normal Position in the Orbit, with View of the Ocular Muscles. (After Merkel, modified.) Tendon of superior oblique Troelilea Internal rectus N» Levator palpebrae ■^^^ superioris, cut Superior rectus Inferior oblique muscle —\ External rectus Inferior rectus CAVITY OF THE ORBIT Genekal Aeeangement of its Contents The anterior wider half of the cavity is mainly occupied by the eyeball, which lies almost axially, but is rather nearer to the upper and outer than it is to the other walls. The posterior two-thirds of the globe are in relation with soft parts, chiefly muscles and fat, and its posterior pole is situated midway between the base (or opening) and the apex of the orbital cavity. The anterior third of the eyeball is naturally free, except for a thin covering of conjunctiva, and projects slightly beyond the opening of the orbit, the degree of prominence varying with the amount of orbital fat, and also to some extent with the length of the globe. A straight line joining the inner and outer orbital margins usually cuts the eye behind the cornea—externally behind the ora serrata, nasally further forward, at the junction of the ciliary body and iris. The globe is held in position by numerous bands of connective tissue. The