542 THE ABTEBIES Bkanches of the Vertebral Artery A. Cervical portion.—No branch. B. Vertebral portion.—1. Lateral spinal ; 2. muscular. C. Occipital portion.—1. Muscular ; 2. anastomotic. D. Cranial portion.—1. Posterior meningeal; 2. posterior spinal; 3. anterioi spinal; 4. posterior cerebellar. Branches of the Second or Vertebral Portion 1. The lateral spinal branches run through the intervertebral foramina intoth(i vertebral canal, and there divide into two branches: {a) The spinal, which ramifiesj on the backs of the bodies of the cervical vertebra ; and (b) the medullary, whicti runs along the spinal nerves, supplies the cord and its membranes, and anastomosed with the arteries above and below. 2. The muscular branches supply the deejl muscles of the neck, and anastomose with the ascending cervical, occipital, anc j deep cervical arteries. Branches op the Third or Occipital Portion | 1. Muscular, to the muscles forming the suboccipital triangle ; 2. anasto j motic, to the branches of the occipital artery. Branches op the Fourth or Cranial Portion 1. The posterior meningeal is a small branch given off as the vertebral arteri pierces the dura mater to enter the cranium. It supplies the bone and dun mater of the posterior fossa of the skull, and anastomoses with the posterio i meningeal branches derived from the occipital and ascending pharyngeal arteries It gives branches to the falx cerebelli (fig. 387). 2. The posterior spinal artery runs downwards obliquely along the side of tht medulla to the back of the cord, down which it passes behind the roots of the spina i nerves, being reinforced by lateral branches running inwards along these nerves, ii the neck from the vertebral, in the dorsal region from the intercostals, and in th(| lumbar region from the lumbar arteries. It can be traced as low as the end of th(j spinal cord. j 3. The anterior spinal artery comes off from the vertebral a little below itij termination in the basilar artery. Descending obliquely inwards in front of th( j medulla, it unites on a level with the foramen magnum with its fellow of th(| opposite side. The single vessel thus formed runs downwards in front of the spina i cord beneath the pia mater as far as the termination of the cord, being reinforcecj by the lateral spinal branches the whole way down (fig. 387). The spinal arteriei f are described in detail with the anatomy of the spinal cord. \ 4. The posterior inferior cerebellar (fig. 340)—the largest branch of the vertebra j —arises from that vessel just before it joins its fellow to form the basilar artery. A j times it may come off from the basilar itself. It runs, at first outwards across th( j restiform body between the origin of the pneumogastric and hypoglossal nerves, and j descending towards the vallecula, there divides into two branches, an internal an( | external, (a) The internal or inferior vermiform branch runs backwards betweei! the vermiform process and the lateral hemisphere of the cerebellum. It suppliei j the vermiform, process, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side, am with the superior vermiform branch of the superior cerebellar, (b) The external o: | hemispheral branch runs outwards, and, ramifying over the under surface of th" i i