POPLITEAL SPACE 1227 cases (Holden); (2) one between the gastrocnemius and inner condyle ; (3) one between the semi-membranosus and back of the tibia. On the outer side there may be (4) one between the outer head of the gastrocnemius and the condyle; (5) one between the tendons of the popliteus and the outer tuberosity of the joint; (6) one between the above tendons and the external lateral ligament; (7) one between the biceps tendon and the same ligament. While some of the above communicate with the joint much more frequently than the others—e.g. (1) and (4)—such communica- tion is always uncertain, and is the more likely the older the patient. Popliteal vessels.—The artery traverses this space from above downwards, appearing beneath the semi-membranosus, a little to the inner side of the middle line, and then passing down in the centre of the space to the interval between the gastrocnemii. Its line would be one drawn from the inner side of the hamstrings Fig. 772.—Deep View of the Popliteal Space, (Hirschfeld and Leveille.) Adductor magntis Popliteal vein Popliteal nrternj INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE Vastus internus Superior internal articular artery Tendon of semi-membranosus Inner liead of gastrocnemius Inferior internal articular arter Popliteal vein Popliteus Tendon of plantariK Vastus externus GREAT SCIATIC NERVE Short head of ibieeps 'INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE Long head of biceps, cut Outer head of gastrocnemius COMMUNICANS PERONEl NERVE G-astroenemius External suphenuus vein and nerve to the centre of the lower part of the space. The artery bifurcates on the level of a line corresponding in front to the tubercle of the tibia. It lies on the popliteal surface of the femur, the posterior ligament, and the popliteus. It is the second of these which usually prevents popliteal aneurism and abscess from making their way into the joint. The popliteal vein, intimately adherent to the artery, hes to the outer side above, but crosses to its inner side below. The walls of this vein are thicker and denser than those of any other vein (Tillaux). The internal popliteal nerve crosses the artery in the same direction as the vein by which it is [separated from the artery. This nerve is the direct continuation of the great sciatic nerve (fig. 775). . . I The superior articular arteries course outwards and inwards immediately iabove the condyles; the inferior ones lie just above the head of the fibula and