774 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM The subarachnoid tissue is much less abundant in tlie spinal portion than in the cerebral part of the subarachnoid space. It passes from arachnoid to pia mater in the form of delicate threads, which are separated from one another by comparatively wide intervals. It also gives support to the nerve-roots as they cross the subarachnoid space (fig. 435). An incomplete membranous septum, the septum posticum (Key and Retzius), passes from arachnoid to pia mater opposite the posterior fissure of the spinal cord, and serves to conduct blood-vessels to the cord. The space is also partially divided into a posterior and an anterior compartment by the ligamentum denticulatum. The PIA MATER of the cord consists of two layers, an outer and an inner, the latter of which represents, and is continuous with, the pia mater of the brain, i Both layers dip into the anterior fissure of the cord, but only the inner layer enters the posterior fissure. The outer layer is strong and fibrous, and presents certain localised thickenings which require separate description ; these are the ligamentum denticulatum and the linea splendens. The filum terminale may be conveniently described along with these. \ The ligamentum denticulatum is a fibrous band which is attached on each side j of the cord about midway between the anterior and posterior nerve-roots. It is ■ continuous by its inner margin with the pia mater. Its outer margin is character- istically scalloped or denticulated, and presents about twenty-one pointed processes by which it is attached to the dura mater. These processes do not pierce the ' arachnoid, but receive funnel-shaped sheaths from it (Key and Retzius). The highest of these processes is at the level of the foramen magnum, and is placed j between the hypoglossal nerve and the vertebral artery. In the upper region of | the cord one denticulation is regularly placed between the point of exit of each j nerve and the next nerve below ; lower down the arrangement becomes less regular. I It is continuous below with the filum terminale. The linea splendens (Haller) is j a conspicuous linear thickening which is placed in the middle line in front of the ij cord. It presents a silvery white appearance. It is continuous below with the j filum terminale. The filum terminale is the continuation of the pia-matral sheath i of the cord, and contains but little nervous matter in its interior. It is easily i distinguished by its shining white appearance from the nerve-roots among which it lies. It is a slender strand which extends from the pointed lower extremity of the spinal cord to the lower end of the sacrum, or first piece of the coccyx, opposite i which it is attached to the bone. As already mentioned, it receives a sheath from the dura mater in the lower part of its course. EXTERNAL CHARACTERS OF THE SPINAL CORD i The spinal cord is about eighteen inches in length, and forms (by weight) about two per cent, of the cerebro-spinal axis. It is cylindrical in form, and is slightly | compressed from before backwards, so that the transverse exceeds the antero- | posterior diameter. It is continuous with the medulla oblongata above at the ; decussation of the pyramids ; below it tapers off into a cone, the conus medullaris, j the apex of which is continued downwards by the filum terminale. It follows the curvatures of the canal in which it is placed, and therefore describes two curves, the upper or cervical convex forwards, and the lower or dorsal concave forwards. . I In two regions of the cord distinct enlargements are visible : these are called the cervical and the lumbar enlargements. The large size of the nerves which are I given off to supply the limbs, forming the brachial and lumbo-sacral plexuses, j obviously account for these enlargements of the cord. The increase in size is | almost entirely produced by an increase in the transverse diameter. The cervical | enlargement is more pronounced than the lumbar swelling. It commences at the j level of the third cervical vertebra, and ends at the second dorsal. It is at its maximum