430 THE MUSCLES \ The insertion into the pubic bone of the same side is interrupted by an interval | corresponding to the crest of the pubes, and forms the external abdominal ring, i From the spine of the pubes to the anterior superior spine of the ihum, the! aponeurosis forms a thickened band shghtly convex downwards, which blends with I the fascia lata, and is called Poupart's ligament. The rest of the insertion into' the outer lip of the crest of the ilium is by short tendinous fibres. The insertion of the lower edge of the aponeurosis is also carried backwards and outwards from the spine of the pubes along the inner part of the ilio-pectineal line by a horizontal triangle of fascia called Gimbernat's ligament. This ligament is attached to the lower end of Poupart's ligament in front, and it presents a concave surface upwards, upon which lie the structures which emerge through ] the external abdominal ring. | The external abdominal ring (fig. 285) is an obliquely directed slit in thei aponeurosis of the obliquus externus, which transmits the spermatic cord in the I male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female. The slit is formed by the divergence of the obliquely directed fibres of the aponeurosis. Those above, which form the inner pillar, as it is called, of the ring, run down- wards and inwards to be attached to the front of the symphysis pubis; those! below, which form the external pillar of the ring, form a thin edge at first, but thicken just before their attachment to the spine of the pubes and the inner; extremity of the ilio-pectineal line, for at this point the external pillar is identical! with Poupart's ligament. Upon the surface of the obliquus externus, close to the external abdominal ring, the oblique fibres of the aponeurosis are fastened together! by some transversely directed fibres, the intercolumnar fibres, which run upwardsj and inwards from Poupart's ligament, limiting and rounding oft' the upper and' outer end of the external abdominal ring, A thin membrane, the intercolumnari fascia, is prolonged from the edges of this opening over the spermatic cord and! round ligament, of which it forms the external envelope. ! Nerve-supply.—From the anterior branches of the lower thoracic nerves ancj from the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves which come from the highes ' nerve of the lumbar plexus, by means of numerous filaments which, passing througl the internal oblique, enter the muscle on its deep surface. Action.—(1) The curved muscular fibres in their contraction tend to becom«| straight and so compress the viscera which lie in their concavity; they act iii defecation, micturition, parturition, and all expiratory efforts ; (2) the two obliqu i externi acting together will draw upwards the front part of the pelvis, and so flex 1 ' upon the thorax; (3) the muscle of one side, acting alone or in conjunction witl the internal oblique of the opposite side, will rotate the pelvis and the lower par of the body to the same side; (4) it will tend by its posterior fibres to draw tbj crest of the ilium upwards towards the lower ribs, and will thus act as a lateral flexor of the pelvis upon the thorax ; (5) acting from below, the muscles of thij two sides will draw the thorax downwards and forwards and flex the lumbar an(i lower part of the thoracic spine ; (6) it will rotate the thorax upon the pelvis so a to turn the thorax and the upper part of the body to the opposite side ; (7) th posterior fibres will flex the thorax laterally. Relations.—Superficially, the integuments, and for a short space behind th latissimus dorsi; deeply, the lower ribs, their cartilages, the intercostal muscle between them, and the internal oblique; and below, the spermatic cord or roun ligament in the inguinal canal. j Variations.—The obliquus externus may rise from more or fewer ribs. Occasionall I a deeper plane is separated from the rest of the muscle. In one case, the anterior part (' the aponeurosis was observed to be wanting. i