THE SPLEEN 1025 ! Lymphatics.—The lymphatics terminate in two glands which lie on the Riperior mesenteric artery. Nerves.—These are branches of the solar plexus which accompany the arteries ^ entering the gland. THE SPLEEN Position.—The spleen—one of the ductless glands—is situated for the most |>art in the left hypochondriac region (figs. 577, 591). It is deeply placed between he fundus of the stomach and the diaphragm, and in the line of the axilla it ixtends between the eighth and eleventh ribs. It is covered by the ninth, tenths .nd eleventh ribs (fig. 583), and is separated from them by the diaphragm and to a. I mailer extent by the lung. Its upper end reaches to the level of the ninth thoracic pine, and its lower end to the level of the first lumbar spine. Its inner extremity 3 within two inches of the median plane of the body, and its outer boundary is jiosterior to the mid-axillary line. A line drawn from the left sterno-clavicular Ibint to the tip of the eleventh left rib bounds the anterior margin of the spleen. It is bluish-red in colour, is soft, and easily lacerated. Fig. 588.—Outer Aspect of the Spleen. ANTERIOR BORDER- LOWER END Its shape varies, and depends much upon the condition in which it is examined. • soft, and as usually found after removal from the body, it can only be said to jave two surfaces, an outer convex and an inner concave; but if examined after has been hardened in situ, after the manner of Professor His, it is seen to be of much more precise shape, and to present three surfaces (fig. 590). Viewed from the outside, it presents a form which is irregularly oval, wider wve than below, with a bulging of the anterior border (fig. 588). The three irfaces are the external, anterior, and inner. The external or posterior surface is le largest. It is regularly convex, and is directed outwards and backwards and miewhat upwards (figs. 588, 590). It lies against the commencement of the bch of the diaphragm. It is covered by peritoneum. Viewed from the inside, the 1^0 other surfaces are seen to be divided by a distinct vertically directed ridge (fig. pO). The anterior of the two looks forwards, inwards, and a little downwards. 1 is concave from above downwards, and from side to side. It is a good deal the 3 U