69 THE MANDIBLE length of this ridge. At the posterior part the suijerior constrictor takes origin, and the pterygo-maxillary ligament is attached to its posterior extremity. Below the internal oblique line is the submaxillary fossa, which is in relation with the submaxillary gland. The inferior border of the body of the mandible is smooth and rounded ; near its junction with the ramus there is a groove for the facial artery. The superior border is composed of spongy bone, and is named the alveolus; it presents sockets for eight teeth. From the outer edge of the alveolus, as far forward as the first molar tooth, the buccinator muscle takes origin. The ramus is quadrilateral in shape. It has two surfaces, four borders, and two processes. The external surface is for the insertion of the masseter muscle. The internal surface presents near its middle the mandibular (inferior dental) foramen which leads into the mandibular (inferior dental) canal which , traverses Fig. 77,— The Mandible. (Outer view.) Temporal CORONOID PROCESS SIGMOID NOTCH External pterygoid CONDYLE NECK MENTAL FORAMEN Levator menti Depressor labii inf, THE CHIN OR MENTAL PRO- TUBERANCE ANGLE Platysma GROOVE FOR FACIAL ARTERY Depressor angull oris EXTERNAL OBLIQUE LINE the body of the bone and emerges at the mental foramen. This canal presents a series of fine apertures above, through which filaments of the mandibular nerve and artery pass to the teeth. In its posterior two-thirds the canal is nearer the internal, in its outer third it is nearer the external surface of the mandible. The posterior orifice of the canal is surmounted by the mandibular spine to which the spheno-mandibular ligament is attached. Eunning obliquely downwards behind this spine is the mylo-hyoid groove, which lodges the mylo-hyoid nerve and artery. In the embryo, Meckel's cartilage also occupies the groove. The triangular rough space behind this groove is for the insertion of the internal loterygoid muscle. The inferior border of the ramus is thick, rounded, and continuous with the lower border of the body of the bone. The posterior border is rounded ; to its lower part the stylo-maxillary ligament is attached. This border is surmounted by the condyle, which is connected with the ramus by a somewhat constricted portion, the neck. The condyle is oval in shape, with its long axis transverse to the upper border