495 LEFT FULMONABY—THE AORTA ■,he supply of the inferior lobe. These branches follow the course of the bronchi, iividing and subdividing for the supply of the lobules of the lung. The terminal )ranches do not anastomose with each other. Relations.—In its course to the lung it has in front of it (fig. 319) the ascending borta, the vena cava superior, the phrenic nerve, the anterior pulmonary plexus, and he reflexion of the pleura. Behind is the right bronchus. Above is the trans- ['erse portion of the arch of the aorta, and below is the left auricle. I At the root of the lung it has the right bronchus above and behind it; the |ialmonary veins below and in front. Crossing in front of it and the other struc- jare forming the root of the lung are the phrenic nerve and the anterior pulmonary lexus; behind are the vena azygos major, the pneumogastric nerve, and the osterior pulmonary plexus (fig. 324). THE LEFT PULMONARY ARTERY The left pulmonary artery, shorter and shghtly smaller than the right, passes a front of the descending aorta to the root of the left lung, where it divides into tvo branches for the supply of the upper and lower lobes respectively. These ivide and subdivide as on the right side (fig. 319). I Relations.—At the root of the lung it has the left bronchus behind and also elow it in consequence of the more vertical direction taken by the left bronchus lan by the right. Below and in front are the pulmonary veins. Crossing in front I it and the other structures forming the root of the lung are the phrenic nerve, 16 anterior pulmonary plexus, and the reflexion of the left pleura ; crossing shind, are the descending aorta, the left pneumogastric nerve, and the posterior ulmonary plexus (fig. 324). THE SYSTEMIC AETEEIES THE AORTA The aorta is the main systemic arterial trunk, and from it all the systemic 'teries are derived. It begins at the left ventricle of the heart, and, after running short distance upwards and to the right, turns backwards and to the left, and then )wnwards, forming the arch of the aorta. It is thence continued through the lorax as the thoracic aorta, and finally enters the abdomen at the aortic opening the diaphragm, and, passing through the abdominal cavity under the name of .6 abdominal aorta, terminates opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra in the right id left common iliac arteries. From the point of bifurcation a small vessel is ntinued down the middle line in front of the sacrum and coccyx, and ends in the ,'Ccygeal glomerulus. This vessel (known as the middle sacral) is usually regarded, jorphologically, as the sacral and coccygeal aorta ; while the coccygeal glomerulus ! believed to represent the rudiments of the caudal aorta, with probably a persistent '^rt of the post-anal gut. I ! THE ARCH OF THE AORTA The arch of the aorta (fig. 321) begins at the upper and back part of the left utricle of the heart, behind the sternum, on a level with the lower border of the 1