THE MUSCLES 480 body of the hyoid bone to the back of the symphysis of the mandible immediately | below the genial tubercles. Structure.—Arising by fleshy and short tendinous fibres intermingled, the! muscle passes inwards and slightly downwards to its insertion by short tendinous j fibres into the median raphe and hyoid bone. Sometimes the fleshy fibres are here! and there continuous with those of the other side. Each of them is somewhat' arched, so that the whole sheet has a slight downward convexity. The muscles of i the two sides together form a curved diaphragm which stretches across the angle \ contained between the two portions of the mandible. | Nerve-supply.—From the third division of the fifth cranial nerve, by the mylo- \ hyoid branch of the inferior dental which enters the under surface of the muscle bv several filaments. | | Action.—(1) To raise the tongue, the floor of the mouth, and the hyoid bone, as i in mastication and the first part of swallowing. By its elevation of the hyoid bone it will also exert some influence on the larynx and lower part of the pharynx. These actions will be most efficiently carried out when the jaw is closed. (2)| ' Acting from below, it will help in the depression of the lower jaw and in opening! ( the mouth. Relation.—Upon its under surface lie the superficial portion of the submaxillary j j gland, the submental artery, and the anterior belly of the digastric muscle. Above,: , it is in contact with the genio-hyoid and hyo-giossus, the sublingual gland, the] ' deep portion of the submaxillary gland, and the hypoglossal nerve. j Variations.—The mylo-hyoid may be closely connected with the anterior belly of the; - digastric. Openings are sometimes found in the muscular sheet, containing lobules of the submaxillary gland. I 4. GENIO-HYOID j \ The genio-hyoid—named from its attachment to the chin {yeveiov) and the^ hyoid bone—is somewhat fusiform, but flattened from above downwards below and from side to side above. 1 Origin.—The lower genial tubercle. j , Insertion.—The upper and anterior surface of the body of the hyoid bone. j Structure.—Arising by a short tendon, its fibres pass backwards and shghtl3| downwards, close to those of the felloAv muscle of the other side. Near the hyoicj bone they spread out laterally, and occupy nearly the whole of the upper ancj anterior surface of the body, sometimes even a small portion of the greater cornn. 1 I Nerve-supply.—The hypoglossal nerve, which sends filaments to the deepj - surface. ' Action.—(1) To raise and draw forwards the hyoid bone ; (2) to draw down th( i mandible. In its direction and action it is closely related to the anterior belly o: i the digastric. ^ Relations.—Superficially, the mylo-hyoid muscle ; deeply, the genio-hyo glossus ; on its median surface, with its fellow. j S Variations.—The genio-hyoid may be double, or it may form one muscle with its feUov, ■ of the opposite side. | j THE EXTEINSIC MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE i ' \ The tongue consists chiefly of muscular tissue, part of which arises from tb j adjacent bones, while the rest is made up of bands of fibre which pass longitudinally | j or transversely in its substance, and have no external attachment. The latter o:| I ■