1161 INGUINAL HEBNIA ions le.I| other, so as to facilitate the easy passage of the testis. In the adult it measures about an inch and a half in length, this lengthening being brought about by the growth and separation of the alse of the pelvis. This increased obliquity gives additional safety. Directioi^.—From internal to external ring, downwards, forwards, and in- wards. Boundaries.—For convenience sake, certain limits (largely artificial) have been amed— (1) Floor,—This is best marked near the outlet, where the cord rests on the feooved upper margin of Poupart's ligament. The meeting of the transversalis 3cia with this ligament forms the floor. (2) Boof.—The apposition of the muscles and the arched border of the internal oblique and transversalis. (3) Anterior loall.—Skin, superficial fascia, external oblique for all the way. [nternal oblique, i.e. that part arising from Poupart's ligament, for the outer third or so. (4) Posterior ivall.—For the whole extent, transversalis fascia, extra-peritoneal issue, and peritoneum. For the inner two-thirds, conjoined tendon of internal )blique and transversalis, and the outer edge of the triangular fascia, when leveloped. Of the structures forming the posterior wall the transversalis fascia is he strongest. It is thicker and better marked at its attachments below; these ire—(a) externally, to inner lip of iliac crest; (b) to Poupart's ligament between he anterior superior spine and the femoral vessels : here it joins the fascia iliaca ; c) opposite the femoral vessels it also joins the fascia iliaca, and forms with it a ubular sheath; (d) internal to the femoral vessels the fascia transversalis is attached 0 the ilio-pectineal line, behind the conjoined tendon, with which it blends. INTERNAL EING.—It has already been said that the term ' ring' is here mis- pplied except in an artificial sense, as when an opening is made by a scalpel; or n a pathological one, as when a hernia is making its way by opening up the parts. Che terms ' internal' and ' external' are also misapplied as far as their usual pplication to the middle line of the body is concerned. The terms apply to depth )nly. The ' internal ring ' is not a ring in the least, but merely a funnel-shaped xpansion of the transversalis fascia, which the cord carries on with it as it escapes rom the abdomen. This expansion may be Aveakened, but it is never an opening ave when made so artificially. Site.—Midway between the anterior superior spine and spine of pubes. Shape : val, with the long diameter upwards. Dimensions: one inch by half an inch. 5oth these are artificial. Boundaries : centre of Poupart's ligament, about half an ach below. Internally the deep epigastric artery, and thus the inner side seems be better defined. But the outer side is really the better defined, as here he transversalis fascia is descending to Poupart's ligament, to form the deep crural' arch, and to help to close in the great gap or notch between Poupart's gament and the innominate bone. Owing to the artery lying to the inner side, he incision, in cutting to relieve the deep constriction of an inguinal hernia, hould always be made directly upwards, so as to avoid the above vessel. Coverings.—There are two chief forms of inguinal hernia :— A. The common form: external, or oblique.—External, because it appears it the internal ring) external to the deep epigastric artery. Oblique, because it raverses the whole of the inguinal canal, entering it at its inlet and leaving it at s outlet. B. Rarer form: internal, or direct.—Internal, because it appears internal to 16 deep epigastric artery. Direct, because, instead of making its way down the hole oblique canal, it comes by a short cut, as it were, only into the lower part : the canal, and then emerges by the same opening as the other.