THE TEETH 95 towards the neck. The cingukim is scarcely marked, and the root single. The lower lateral incisors are distinctly larger than the lower centrals in every direction. The distal angle of the crown is rounded off; the root is single and frequently presents on each side a longitudinal groove. The canines.—These differ from the incisors in possessing larger crowns, and thick long roots. The crown ends in a blunt point, and the cutting edge slopes away on each side. The slope toward the bicuspid is the longer, and causes the crown to be asymmetrical. The lingual surface presents a median and two lateral ridges ; they converge towards the well-marked cingulum, which is often produced into a distinct cusp. The lower canines have not such pronounced features as the upper; the point is blunter, and the median ridge is absent from the lingual surface. Premolars or bicuspids.—The crown of the first upper premolar has a grinding surface which is somewhat quadrilateral in outline ; the labial is, however, longer than the lingual border. It has two cusps, of which the labial is much the larger. The cusps are separated by a pit, but are connected by a narrow ridge along the median and distal borders. The median border is nearly straight, the distal is convex. The root may be single, or marked by a longitudinal depression, or be double throughout the greater part of its length ; it may in some specimens have three distinct roots like a molar. Fig. 98.—A Molar Tooth in section, and a Canine Tooth. The second bicuspid differs from the first in having its cusps nearly equal in size. Its root is double. The lower bicuspids are smaller than the upper and differ from them in shape. The labial cusp is larger than the lingual; the cusps are connected by a low ridge, the grinding surface presents two small pits. The root is single, rounded, and tapering. The second lower bicuspid is larger than the first. The inner cusp is higher and stouter,, and the distal border is much more pronounced. Its root is also single and tapering. The upper molars.—The first and second resemble each other so closely that one description will serve for the two. The grinding surface is quadrilateral but with rounded angles. It has four cusps, tw^o labial and two lingual. Of these, the anterior lingual is the largest, and is connected with the posterior labial by a ridge of enamel. The groove separating the labial and lingual cusps extends on to the sides of the crown and is lost near the neck. The median and distal borders usually present a slight ridge. The roots are three in number, two on the labial, and one on the lingual aspect; this last is usually referred to as the palatine root, and often diverges from the crown at a considerable angle. The lower molars.—The first is the most constant in form. It has five cusps on the grinding surface. Four occupy the angles and are separated by a crucial fissure. The fifth cusp is situated at the posterior extremity of the longitudinal ridge. It has two roots, placed one in front of the other ; they are inclined somewhat