THE TEMPOBAL BONES 39 The fundus of the meatus is divided by a transverse ridge of bone, the falciform crest, into a superior and inferior fossa. Of these, the superior is the smaller, and presents anteriorly the beginning of the aqueduct of Fallopius ; this transmits the seventh nerve. The rest of the surface above the crest is dotted with small foramina (the superior cribriform area) which transmit nerve-twigs to the fovea hemielliptica and the ampullae of the superior and external semicircular canals. Below the crest there are two depressions and an opening. Of these, an anterior curled tract (the spiral cribriform tract) with a central foramen (foramen centrale cochleare) marks the base of the cochlea; the central foramen indicates the orifice of the canal of the modiolus, and the smaller foramina transmit the cochlear twigs of the auditory nerve. The posterior opening (foramen singulare) is for the nerve to the ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal. The middle depression (middle cribriform area) is dotted with minute foramina for the nerve-twigs to the saccule, which is lodged in the fovea hemispherica. The inferior fossa is subdivided by a low vertical crest. The fossa in front of the crest is the fossula cochlearis, and the recess behmd it is the fossula vestibularis. Behind the meatus is a small slit (large in the foetus) which formerly lodged the aqueductus vestibuli (ductus endolymphaticus); in the adult it is occupied by a small arteriole and venule and a process of dura mater. Occasionally a bristle can be passed along this passage into the vestibule. Above, and anterior to this, is a second slit also lodging a process of the dura mater. This is a remnant of the Fig. 45.—The Foramina in the Fundus of the Left Internal Auditory Meatus OF A Child at Birth (Diagrammatic.) SUPERIOR CRIBRIFORM AREA MIDDLE CRIBRIFORM AREA FORAMEN SINGULARE SUPERIOR FOSSA ENTRANCE TO THE AQUEDUCT OF FALLOPIUS FALCIFORM CREST ORIFICE OF THE CANAL OF THE MODIOLUS SPIRAL CRIBRIFORM TRACT NFERIOR FOSSA floccular fossa, so conspicuous in the foetus. Posteriorly, this surface has a deep groove for the lateral sinus. The anterior face of the pyramid is separated from the squamosal by the petro-sq[uamous suture, w^hich may persist throughout life. It presents the following points of interest: near the apex it has a shallow depression for the Gasserian ganglion, and the recess of dura mater (Meckel's cave) in which it lies ; below this is the termination of the carotid canal. Behind these are two small foramina, overshadowed by a thin osseous hp. Of these, the larger and more internal is the hiatus Fallopii, which transmits a small artery from the middle meningeal and the greater petrosal nerve. The smaller and external foramen is for the lesser petrosal nerve. Still more externally there is a thin translucent plate of bone, the tegmen tympani. Behind, and slightly internal to this, there is a ridge formed by the superior semicircular canal. The inferior or basilar surface is very irregular, and has the following points of interest. At the apex is a quadrilateral smooth space for the tensor tymimni and levator imlati muscles. Behind this is the large circular orifice of the carotid canal, for the transmission of the carotid artery and a plexus of sympathetic nerves. Internal to this, near the inner border of the bone, is the orifice of the ac^ueductus cochleae (ductus perilymphaticus). In the adult it transmits a small vein from the cochlea to the internal jugular. Posteriorly is the elliptical jugular fossa with smooth walls for the ampulla which receives the lateral and in- ferior petrosal sinuses, and forms the commencement of the internal jugular vein.