813 GLOSSO-PHABYNGEAL NEBVE Within the meatus the auditory nerve becomes flattened, and is curved in such a manner as to form a half-cyhnder, open above. The pars intermedia hes in the concavity of this half-cyhnder, and above this is the facial nerve, the three nerves being connected by a lax connective tissue. This connective tissue has often been mistaken for nervous communications. (Testut.) The cochlear nerve gives twigs to the saccule and to the ampulla of the posterior semicircular canal, and then divides into a number of filaments, which enter the lamina cribrosa. The vestibular nerve divides into twigs for the utricle and for the ampullse of the superior and external semicircular canals. NINTH OR GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE The glosso-pharyng'eal nerve is made up of fibres derived from three different sources. Two of these sets of fibres arise from distinct groups of cells, and represent the motor part of the nerve and the portion devoted to the special sense of taste. The third set of fibres takes the form of an ascending root (funiculus sohtarius), the round cross-section of which forms a conspicuous object in sections through the lower part of the medulla. The fibres which form this ascending (or sensory) root have not as yet been distinctly traced to cells. The fibres from these three sources emerge in the form of several fasciculi (superficial origin) in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies, near the lower border of the pons, in series with the roots of the vagus nerve. The two principal nuclei are called the small-celled and the large-celled nuclei, and are absolutely continuous with the nuclei of the vagus and of the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve. The small-celled nucleus (sensory, or accessorio-vago-glosso-pharyngeal nucleus) corresponds for the most part to the ala cinerea in the floor of the fourth ventricle. In this situation it lies immediately external to the chief nucleus of the hypo- glossal nerve. Higher up, it recedes from the middle line, and is more deeply placed, being covered by the chief nucleus of the auditory nerve. It is from this deeper (upper) part that the glosso-pharyngeal fibres take origin and these fibres are regarded as the conductors of the special sense of taste. The large-ceiled nucleus (motor nucleus, nucleus ambiguus) contains cells resembling the motor cells in the anterior horn of the spinal cord, and is regarded as a portion of the head of that horn which has been amputated from the neck by the decussation of the pyramids. It is more deeply placed than the small-celled nucleus. It is placed between the nucleus lateralis and external accessory olive, and somewhat dor sally to both. It extends in a sagittal direction from the level of the striae medullares downwards to a point a little below the fourth ventricle. From the upper end of this nucleus fibres pass dorsally and then arch outwards to join the fibres derived from the small-celled nucleus. Both sets of fibres then proceed forwards and outwards, piercing the ascending root of the trigeminal, and emerge at the ventral margin of the restiform body. The ascending root (funiculus solitarius) commences at a point immediately above the level of the decussation of the pyramids. It passes upwards in the form of a sharply circumscribed round bundle, gaining in strength as it ascends. It is placed at first close to the outer side of the nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve ; higher up it is related to the outer side of the small-celled (accessorio-vago-giosso- pharyngeal) nucleus, and lies dorsally to the roots of the vagus between the latter and the ascending root of the auditory. Finally, at the level of the striae medullares, it bends at right angles to its former course, and runs forwards and outwards, traversing the substantia gelatinosa and the ascending root of the trigeminal to join