THE SPHENOID 3B bone. The sinuses communicate with the nasal fossa of their respective sides. The lateral margins of the anterior surface are serrated for articulation with the posterior border of the os planum on each side of the ethmoid. The superior margin articulates with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid. The posterior surface is, in the adult, ankylosed to the basi-occipital. The two bones are separated by a disc of hyaline cartilage until the eighteenth year ; by the twenty-fifth year ankylosis is complete. On each side of the body there is the broad sinuous cavernous groove, which lodges the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus. The process of bone over which this artery turns is the lingula ; it constitutes a flying buttress for the support of the greater wings. The lesser or orbital wings (orbito-sphenoids) are thin, triangular, horizontal plates of bone resting upon that portion of the sphenoid anterior to the olivary ridge (pre-sphenoid). The superior surface of each wing is smooth and slightly concave, and forms the posterior part of the anterior fossa of the skull; the under surfaces constitute a portion of the roof of each orbit, and bound superiorly the sphenoidal fissures. The anterior border is serrated for articulation with the horizontal plate of the frontal bone. (The orbital wings meet over the pre-sphenoid Fig. 37.—The Left Half of the Sphenoid. ANTERIOR CLINOID PROCESS, MIDDLE CLINOID PROCESS. POSTERIOR CLINOID PROCESS' and almost exclude it from the cranial cavity.) The posterior border, smooth and rounded, is received into the Sylvian fissure of the cerebrum. The inner extremity is prolonged to form the anterior clinoid process to which the tentorium cerebelli is attached. Each lesser wing is connected to the body of the bone by two processes or roots ; of these, the upper is thin and flat, the lower one is thicker, and presents near its junction with the body a small tubercle for the attachment of the common tendon of three ocular muscles. The space between the roots is the optic foramen, and transmits the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery. The greater wings (ali-sphenoids) are two large plates of bone ankylosed to the body by means of the lingulse. Each wing has three surfaces. The superior or cerebral surface is concave and smooth; it receives the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the cerebrum, and presents several foramina. At the anterior and internal part is the foramen rotundum for the second division of the fifth nerve; behind and external to this is the foramen ovale, for the motor root and the third division of the fifth nerve, the small petrosal nerve, and the small meningeal artery. Behind and external to the foramen ovale is the small circular foramen spinosum, for the middle meningeal artery and its venae comites. To the inner side of the foramen ovale a small opening, the foramen Vesalii, is occasionally present; it transmits a vein. A foramen may exist near the foramen ovale for the small superficial D