541 VERTEBBAL bblique and the rectus capitis posticus major and the complexus behind it. Sepa- j-ating it from the arch of the atlas, is the first cervical or suboccipital nerve. I The fourth or intracranial portion extends from the aperture in the dura mater (io the lower border of the pons, where it unites with its fellow to form the basilar iirtery. It here winds round from the side to the front of the medulla, lying in the ertebral groove on the basilar process of the occipital bone. In this course it passes )eneath the first process of the ligamentum dentatum, and between the hypoglossal lerve in front, and the anterior roots of the suboccipital nerve behind. Fig. 342.—Scheme of the Vertebral Artery. The internal jugular and vertebral veins are hooked aside to expose the artery. Right posterior cerebral artery Left posterior cerebral artery Basilar artery Intracranial portion of vertebral artery Beetus capitis lateralis muscle FIR^iT CERVICAL NERVE Commencement of vertebral vein SECOND CERVICAL NERVE Vertebral plexus of veins THIRD CERVICAL NERVE Vertebral portion of vertebral artery FOURTH CERVICAL NERVE Vertebral plexus of veins FIFTH CERVICAL NERVE SIXTH CERVICAL NERVE Inferior thyroid artery liOiigus colli muscle Cervical portion of vertebral artery Internal jugular vein Vertebral vein Subclavian artery Ocapital portion of vertebral artery Arteria princeps cervicis Semispinalis colli muscle Deep cervical artery Scalenus anticus muscle Thyroid axis Subclavian vein Chief Variations of the Vertebral Artery (A) The right vertebral artery may arise from the first part of the subclavian, either earer to the innominate, or nearer to the anterior scalene muscle than normal. (B) It may come off from the arch of the aorta direct. (See VARiATmNS in the Chief ranches of the Arch of the Aorta.) ... ^ (C) It may arise from the right common carotid when the right subclavian is given off om the aorta beyond the left subclavian. (D) It may pass behind the oesophagus. (E) The left vertebral artery may also arise from the arch of the aorta direct, or Irom le left common carotid. (See Variations in the Chief Branches of the Aorta.) (F) Either vertebral may enter the foramen in the seventh cervical vertebra, or m that f the fifth, fourth, third, or second. When entering one of the higher vertebral foramina, may he behind the common carotid and cause some embarrassment m the hgature o+ IB latter vessel. . . ^ -it (G) Either vertebral may give off the inferior thyroid, superior intercostal, deep srvical, or occipital arter3\ i t • (H) One or other artery may be much increased or diminished m size.