259 THE HIP JOINT 1. THE HIP JOINT Class.—DiartlLrosis. Subdivision.—Eiiartlirodia. Tlio liip is tlio most typical ox:Miipl(> of a, baIl-a,ii(l-sockct joint in the body, the rind bead of ibc^ t'enuu- bciiii;- rccciNcd into tbc caip-shaped cavity of the aceta- mn. i'>otb ai'ticubii' siii'i'aces are coated with cartila^(\ tliat covering the head }be i'eiiiui- Itc'ing thicker above where it has to bear the weight of the body, thinning out to a mere edge below ; the pit for the liganientum teres is the f part uncoated, but the cartilage is somewhat heaped up round its margins. 'Bring tlie acetabulum, tlie cartilage is horseslioe-sliaped, and thicker above than b )W, being deficient over the depression at the bottom of tlir accluibiil(im, where lass of fatty tissue—the so-called synovial or Haversian gland is lodged. The liganuuits of tlie joint are :— Oa.psular. Ligamcndim li'i'es. Tra,nsverse. Cotyloid c'artila-g(\ The capsular ligament is one of tlie strongest hganients in the body. It is >'e and somewhat loose, so that in every position of the body some portion of it elaxed. At the pelvis it is attuiched, superiorly, to the base of the anterior erior iliac spine ; curving backwaids, it becomes blended Avith the deep surface :he reflected tendon of tlie rectus J'ciuoris ; posteriorly, it is aiiarlKMl a, few^ lines n the acetabular rim ; and below, to the upper edge of the groo\ e l)et\veen the babuluiu a,n(l tuberosity of the ischium. Thus it reaches the transverse liga- nit, being firmly blended w^itli its outer surface, and frequently sends fibr(>s bond the notch to bk^id with the obturator membrane. Anteriorly it is attached the pubes near the notch, to the pectiiuMl eminence, and thence bael^waids to base of the iliac spine. A thin strong sti-ataim is given off from its su^xa-lieial oct posteriorly, which extends beneath the gluteus minimus, and small rotators, le attached above to the dorsum of the ilium higher than the reflected tendon Qthe rectus, and behind to the ilium and ischium nearly as far as the sciatic K ch. As tliis expa-nsioii i)a,sses oxer the long tiMidoii of (he rrc/'/.'x, the tendon y be described as l)eing in pa,rt contained within the substanee of the capsule. At the femur, the capsula r ligament is fixed to the anterior portion of the upper .ler of the great trochantei', and to the superior cervical tubercle. Thence it s down the spiral line as tar as the inner border of the femur, where it is on a '1 with the lower part ot" tlui lesser trochanter. It then runs upwai'ds ajid back- •ds along an obliqut^ line about two-thirds of an inch (I'd cm.) in front of the ■or trochanter, and continues upwaa'ds a,long the back of I he neck nearly ijiillel to tlie postei'ior intcM'trochanteric line, a,n(l from one-half to two-thirds of inch (12 to 1() nun.) aj)o\'e it; linaJly, it passes along the inner side of the ital fossa to reach the anterior superior angle of the grea.t ti'oclumter. On laying open the capsule, some of the deeper lihres aa'e seen rellected /ards a,long the neck of the femur, to be attached nnich nea rer* tlie head : ie -M'c the retinacula. One corresponds to the u})per, and a.nothei- to the lower Pit of the spira,l line; a third is seen at the upper and back pa,rt of the neck, 'y form lla-t bands, which lie on the femoral neck. Superadded lo the capsul(>, and considerably strengthening it, are three a,uxi- liy bands, whose libi'es a,i'e intima,tely blended wuth, and in fact form part of, capsule, vi/. the ilio-femoraJ, ischio-fcMUoral, and pectineo-feinoi'al hands. The ilio-femoral (Jig. 2:}7) is the longest, widest, a,nd sti'ongest of the bands, s of triangukir shape, with the apex attached above to a cui'Ncd line on the ilium Unediately below and behind the anterior inferior spine, and its base below to the II'