354 THE MUSCLES hand towards the middle line of the palm, forming a deep dimple or groove upon the upper part of the ulnar border of the hand, and at the same time raising the soft parts into a prominent vertical ridge, the object of which appears to be to prevent the ulnar nerve and artery from being pressed upon when a hard substance is grasped by the hand. It also helps to deepen the cup-shaped hollow when the palm is used to convey fluid to the mouth. Relations.—Superficially, the skin; deeply, the hypothenar fascia, which separates it from the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, the ulnar vessels and nerve. Variations.—This muscle may be entirely absent. Deep Muscles of the Palm of the Hand Central Group Consisting of two sets of muscles—the lumbricales and the interossei. 1 1. THE LUMBEICALES ^ The lumbricales—named from their resemblance to earth-worms (= lumhriciM —are four small muscles of a fusiform shape. Origin.—The two outer ones from the outer side of the first and second tendons of the flexor profundus digitorum ; the two inner from the adjacent sides of the second and third, and third and fourth tendons of the flexor profundus digitorumi respectively. All four are attached to the palmar aspect of the deep flexor, and thei origin begins at the lower border of the anterior annular ligament. Insertion.^—The aponeurosis of the extensor communis digitorum tendon on the radial side of the first phalanx of each of the four fingers. Structure.—Arising fleshy from the tendons of the deep flexor, the fibres coui verge upon a small tendon which becomes free a short distance above the metacarpo: phalangeal joint. The tendon passes in front of the deep transverse metacarpa ligament, below which it expands, and is attached to the border of the extenso: tendon. Nerve-supply.—From the outer and inner cords of the brachial plexus ; thtj first and second receiving small filaments from the digital branches of the medial i nerve, which enter the muscle near the radial border in the middle third of thei palmar aspect. The third and fourth lumbricales are supplied by filaments o the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which enter their respective muscles in th middle third of their deep surfaces. \ Action.—Their chief action will be (1) to flex the first phalanges upon themetaj carpal bones ; and at the same time (2) to extend the second and third phalange! by their traction upon the sides of the extensor aponeurosis which covers the bac. of each of the first phalanges. In this action they assist the interosseous muscles but the lumbricales have this advantage over them, that when the second and thiri phalanges are flexed by the flexor sublimis and profundus, the lumbricales will fle| the fii^t phalanges with increased force, inasmuch as the tendons from which the j arise have been retracted, whereas the origins of the interossei are practically fixecj The first and second lumbricales will act feebly as abductors of the index and middl, fingers ; the third and fourth as adductors of the ring and little fingers. They wi j also have some influence, together with the interossei, upon the aponeuroses of th extensor communis digitorum tendons in binding them down upon the fir^.