449 BOTATOBES SPIN^—INTEBSPINALES 5. EOTATORES SPIN^ The rotatores spinae—named from the rotatory action which they impress upon he spine—are small rhomboidal sheets, chiefly found in the thoracic region, where hey form a series of eleven pairs, but occasionally found also in the upper lumbar md the lower cervical regions. Origin.—The back and upper border of the transverse process. Insertion.—The lower border of the lamina of the next vertebra above. Structure.—Sheets of parallel fibres, almost entirely fleshy, which run upwards ,nd inwards. Nerve-supply.—The internal divisions of the posterior primary branches. Action.—To rotate to the opposite side, and also to extend and laterally flex, he vertebra which receives its insertion. ! Relations.—Superficially, the multifidus spin^e ; deeply, the ligamenta subflava. The seventh group consists of short vertical muscles, the interspinales and itertransversales, which lie on a deep plane internal and external to the transverso- ipinales, and under cover of the longer vertical muscles which form the fifth layer f the back. The interspinales—named from their position—are small ribbon-like muscles 'hich run vertically between the spines, especially in the cervical and lumbar h.gions. Origin.—The upper surface of the spine of the vertebra, near its tip. Insertion.—The posterior part of the lower surface of the spine of the vertebra I Structure.—In the neck the bundles are attached to the two parts of the bifid l^tremities of the spines from the axis downwards. In the lumbar region they )rm broader bands attached to the whole length of the spines, and separated by |ie interspinous ligaments. Nerve-supply.—The internal divisions of the posterior branches of the spinal Brves. Action.—To extend the vertebra next above. I Relations.—Behind, the spinales and complexus ; internally, the interspinous Ig'aments ; externally, the multifidus spinas. Variations.—Occasionall}^ they pass over one spine to be inserted upon the next but 16. The spinalis colli, when it occurs, may be looked upon as a still greater extension of lis variation. The intertransversales—named from their position between the transverse 'ocesses—are small vertical bands, also found chiefly in the cervical and lumbar gions. In the neck they are double, the anterior band connecting the anterior tubercles the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and the posterior the posterior bercles. In the lumbar region they are also double, an outer set connecting the adjacent Seventh Layer 1. INTERSPINALES 2. INTERTRANSVERSALES G G