THE OBGAXS OF DIGESTION 1004 The areolar ot suhimcons coat consists of areolar tissue connecting the imisciila- and mncons tunics. A thin layer of muscular tissue separates the mucous membraiit from the areolar coat (muscularis mucosae). The mucous coat, thicker at the upper part than the lower part, is linet throughout with columnar epithelium and is very vascular. The whole surface i: covered with minute processes called villi; these give the membrane a fineb flocculent appearance, which has been compared to the pile of velvet. They ar. largest and most numerous in the duodenum and jejunum, and become gradualbj shorter, smaller, and fewer on the ileum. Besides the villi are certain large fold' or valvular flaps : these are the valvules conniventes. They are permanent ores centic folds of mucous membrane set transversely to the long axis of the intestine which extend from one half to two-thirds of the distance round the lumen (fig. 573)| The largest are more than two inches long, and about one-third of an inch widej They do not exist at the beginning of the duodenum. They are very larg.j just below the entrance of the bile duct, and remain conspicuous until the middl-lj of the jejunum is reached, They then become smaller, and gradually disappeaij at the lower part of the ileum. i Fig. 573.—Portion of the Small Intestine, laid open to show the Valvule Conniventes. (Brinton.) Scattered over the whole of the mucous membrane of the small intestine arti numerous minute soft rounded bodies. These are the so-called solitary glands, j Certain patches, called Peyer's yatclies, are found in the lower ileum. The^' are oval, are from one half to three inches in length, and about one inch iii breadth, and are placed on the long axis of the bowel along a lin.e most remote j from the mesentery. They are made up of an aggregation of solitary glands. ! A number of closely set tubular glands, called Brumiefs glands, maybe exposecl by dissection in the first part of the duodenum. I Blood-supply of the small intestine.—The small intestine receives its bloo(i from the superior mesenteric artery, and a branch coming indirectly from th(; hepatic, the superior pancreatico-duodenal. The superior mesenteric runs betweeil the layers of the mesentery, and gives off about twelve or fifteen branches, running; downwards and to the left (vasa intestini tenuis), which break up and form a serieij of arches, finally encircling the intestine as small branches. It also gives off 'c\ small branch at the beginning, the inferior pancreatico-duodenal, which, with th(j superior pancreatico-duodenal, forms an arch, which lies in the concavity of th(| duodenum and supplies it. The blood is returned by means of the superio]! mesenteric vein, which with the splenic vein forms the portal (fig. 574). |