EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL 887 are about sixty in number, each containing from two to twelve non-meduUated nerve-fibres (page 797). Blood-vessels of the eyeball.—The ocular tissues receive blood from two sets of vessels, viz. the retinal and the ciliary arteries. 1. The arteria centralis retinae either comes direct from the ophthalmic artery, or from one of its branches near the apex of the orbit. Entering the optic nerve twenty millimetres or less behind the globe, it runs forward in its axis to the end of the nerve-trunk, and then divides into branches which run in the inner layers of the Fig. 478.—Diagrammatic Eepresentation of the Blood-vessels of the Eyeball. (Leber.) Arteries red ; veins blue. Canal of Schlemm and con- nections with anterior ciU'irii vein Branch from rilidrn hifijii to anterior Cllinru n m Vessels of ciliary processes Vein from iris and ciliary body to vena vorticosa Branch from short posterior ciliary artery to optic 7ierv( Short posterior ciliary artery Vena centralis retina •Margitial corneal plexus Anterior conjunctival vein Circulus iridis major Posterior conjunctival vein Anterior ciliary vein Posterior conjunctival artery Anterior ciliary artery Episcleral vein] ."] Episcleral artery I, Vena vorticosa Posterior long ciliary artery - Posterior short ciliary arteries Vessels ofpial sheath of optic nerve Vessels of dural sheath Arteria centralis retince retina, and divide dichotomously as they radiate towards the equator. The smaller branches He more deeply in the retina, l3ut none penetrate into the nerve-epithelium, so that the fovea centralis is non-vascular. In the retina, the branches of the central artery do not communicate with any other arteries, but while still in the optic nerve fine communications take place between this artery and neighbouring vessels. Thus {a) minute twigs from it, which help to nourish the axial part of the nerve, communicate with those running in the septa derived from the pial sheath. Again, as the nerve passes through the sclerotic, it is surrounded by a vascular ring