THE METATABSO-PHALANGEAL 293 The Union of the Heads of the Metatarsal Bones [ The heads of the metatarsal bones are connected on their plantar aspect by [he transverse ligament, consisting of four bands of fibres passing transversely rom bone to bone, blending with the fibro-cartilaginous or sesamoid plates of the letatarso-phalangeal joints, and the sheaths of the flexor tendons where they are onnected with the fibro-cartilages. It differs from the corresponding ligament a the hand by having a band from the first to the second metatarsal bone. 8. THE METATAKSO-PHALANGEAL AETICULATIONS (a) The Metataeso-phalangeal Joints of the Foue Outee Toes Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus. These joints are formed by the concave proximal ends of the first phalanges Lrticulating with the rounded heads of the metatarsal bones, and united by the I olio wing ligaments :—• i Two lateral. Dorsal. Plantar sesamoid plate. The two lateral ligaments are strong bands passing from a ridge on each side )f the head of the metatarsal bone to the sides of the proximal end of the first )halanx, and also to the sides of the sesamoid plate which unites the two bones )n their plantar surfaces. On the dorsal aspect they are united by the dorsal igament. The dorsal ligament consists of loose fine fibres of areolo-fibrous tissue, extend- ng between the lateral ligaments, thus completing a capsule. It is connected by ine fibres to the under surface of the extensor tendons, which pass over and jonsiderably strengthen this portion of the capsule. The plantar sesamoid plate helps to deepen the shallow facet of the phalanx or the head of the metatarsal bone, and corresponds to the glenoid ligament of he fingers. It is firmly connected to the lateral ligaments and the intertrans- verse ligament, and is grooved inferiorly where the flexor tendons pass over it. It 'erves to prevent dorsal dislocation of the phalanx. j (b) The Metataeso-phalangeal Joints of the Geeat Toe The metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the great toe differs from the rest in the oUowing particulars :— I (1) The bones are on a larger scale, and the articular surfaces are more extensive, j (2) There are two grooves on the plantar surface of the metatarsal bone, one im each side of the median line, for the sesamoid bones. { (3) The sesamoid bones replace the fibro-cartilaginous or sesamoid plate. They [tre two small hemispherical bones developed in the tendons of the flexor brevis lallucis, convex below, but flat above where they play in grooves on the head of he metatarsal bone; they are united by a strong transverse ligamentous band, j/vhich is smooth below and forms part of the channel along which the long flexor pendon plays. They are firmly united to the base of the phalanx by strong short fibres, but to the metatarsal bone they are joined by somewhat looser fibres. I laterally they are connected with the lateral ligaments and the sheath of the liexor tendons. They provide shifting leverage for the flexor brevis hallucis as kvell as for the flexor longus hallucis.