239 THE ELBOW JOINT 4. THE ELBOW JOINT Class. —Diar thro sis. Subdivision.—Ging lymus. The elbow is a complete hinge, and, unlike the knee, depends for its security ind strength upon the configuration of its bones rather than on the number, strength, or arrangement of its ligaments. The bones composing it are the lower 3nd of the humerus above, and the upper ends of the radius and ulna below ; the irticular surface of the humerus being received partly within the great sigmoid jsavity of the ulna, and partly upon the cup-shaped surface of the radius. The ligaments form one large and capacious capsule, which, by blending with the orbicular ligament, and then passing on to be attached to the neck of the radius, smbraces the elbow and the superior radio-ulnar joints, uniting them into one. Laterally, it is considerably strengthened by superadded fibres arising from the sondyles of the humerus and inseparably connected with the capsule. For con- v^enience of description it will be spoken of as consisting of four portions :— The anterior portion (fig. 228) is attached to the front of the humerus above the articular surface and coronoid fossa, in an inverted V-shaped manner, to two very faintly marked ridges which start from the front of the internal and external condyles, and meet at a variable distance above the coronoid fossa. Below, it is fixed, just beyond the articular margin, to the front of the coronoid process ; it is intimately blended with the front of the orbicular ligament, a few fibres passing on to the neck of the radius. It varies in strength and thickness, being some- jtimes so thin as barely to cover the synovial membrane ; at others, thick and strong, and formed of coarse decussating fibres, the majority of which descend from the :inner side outwards to the radius. The posterior portion (fig. 229), thin and membranous, is attached superiorly jto the humerus, in much the same inverted V-shaped w^ay as the anterior; I ascending from the internal condyle, along the inner side of the olecranon fossa I nearly to the top ; then, crossing the bottom of the fossa, it descends on the outer i side, skirting the outer margin of the trochlear surface, and turns outwards along the posterior edge of the capitellum. Inferiorly, it is attached to a slight groove I along the superior and external surfaces of the olecranon, and the rough surface of the ulna just beyond the lesser sigmoid notch, and with the orbicular ligament, a few fibres passing on to the neck of the radius. It is composed of decussating fibres, most of which pass vertically or obliquely downwards, a few taking a ! transverse course at the summit of the olecranon fossa where the ligament is 1 usually thinnest. The internal portion (fig. 228) is thicker, stronger, and denser than either the anterior or posterior portions. It is triangular in form, its apex being attached to the anterior and under aspect of the internal condyle, and to the condyloid edge of 1 the groove between the trochlea and the condyle. The fibres radiate downwards from this attachment, the anterior passing forwards to be fixed to the rough over- i hanging inner edge of the coronoid process ; the middle descend less obliquely to a i ridge running between the coronoid and olecranon processes, while the posterior ; pass obliquely backwards to the inner edge of the olecranon just beyond the : articular margin. The anterior fibres are the thickest, strongest, and most pronounced. I The external portion (fig. 229) is attached above to the lower part of the external condyle, and from this the fibres radiate to their attachment into the outer side of the orbicular ligament, a few fibres being prolonged to reach the Anterior. Posterior. Internal. External.