THE FCETAL HEABT 977 side of the ductus arteriosus. The filaments from this plexus form the greater portion of the anterior coronary plexus. Some, however, reach the left anterior pulmonary plexus. The coronary plexuses follow the course of the vessels, and their filaments enter the muscular walls of the heart. Minute ganglia are connected with these filaments, and are especially ahundant near the auriculo-ventricular groove. Peculiarities of the Fcetal Heart The foetal heart is at first almost vertical in position, but during the latter half of intra-uterine life it gradually assumes the oblique position it retains in the adult. Its weight in relation to the body varies considerably. Thus at the second imonth it is about 1 to 50 ; at birth it is 1 to 120 ; whilst in the adult it is about 1 to 160. The auricular portion is at first more capacious than the ventricular, and the right auricle is larger than the left. The ventricular walls are at first about equal in thickness, but at birth the left wall is the thicker of the two. The foramen ovale is largest about the sixth month of intra-uterine life, and there is up to this period a direct communication between the two auricles. The ivalve of the foramen ovale, however, gradually advancing upwards beyond the lannulus, on its left side, acts as a perfect valve during the latter half of foetal life,, and thus prevents the return of blood into the right auricle. The Eustachian valve has already been described ; it is of large size in the foetal heart, and serves to direct the current of blood from the inferior cava into the left auricle. The ductus arteriosus continues the pulmonary artery onwards to the concavity of the arch of the aorta, to a point just beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery, and so transmits the blood from the right ventricle into the descending- aorta. The ductus arteriosus during the growth of the pulmonary artery becomes ultimately associated with its left branch. The foetal circulation.—The right auricle of the heart receives its blood from both ven^e cav«, as well as from the coronary sinus. That which is conveyed by the superior cava is venous blood returned from the head and neck and upper extremities. The inferior cava returns the blood from the lower half of the body,, as well as that which comes from the placenta through the umbilical vein. This The black connecting arrows indicate the course of the circulation through the head and neck, the upper extremities, the lungs, the liver, and the lower extremities. The red arrows show the direction of the current from the placenta, through the umbilical vein, ductus venosus (d.v.) and liver, to the upper portion of the inferior vena cava. The red arrows with the blue tails and the dotted line show the course of the less pure blood, as it enters the right auricle through the inferior vena cava, and traverses the foramen ovale, guided by the Eustachian valve, to gain the left auricle, left ventricle, and aorta, to be distributed by its chief branches to the head and neck and upper extremities. The blue arrows are placed on the superior and inferior venae cavae, and some of their (main tributary trunks. I The stream derived from the superior cava passes through the right auricle—in front of that already described—to reach the right ventricle ; thence it passes into the pulmonary artery (a small portion only reaching the lungs through the right and left pulmonary branches), ductus arteriosus, and descending aorta. The stream derived from the inferior cava mixes with the blood of the umbilical vein, and that which has passed through the liver, beyond the junction of the ductus venosus and hepatic veins. The blue arrows with the red tails show the course of the blood through the descending aorta to the lower extremities, and through the umbilical arteries to the placenta. The colours of the arrows roughly indicate the proportion of pure and impure blood in ^the different parts of the circulation. 3 K