1 ADDUCTOB HALLUCIS—FLEXOB BBEVIS MINIMI DIGITI 407 Nerve-supply.—From the external plantar division of the posterior tibial nerve )y filaments which enter the upper surface of the muscle upon its outer border lear its origin. Action.—(1) To adduct the first phalanx of the great toe towards the middle ine of the foot; (2) to flex the first phalanx. Usually it will act during walking n combination with the flexor brevis hallucis and abductor hallucis, and the hree muscles contracting together will produce direct flexion of the first phalanx, 0 that when the weight of the body rests upon the front part of the foot the econd phalanx is pressed firmly against the ground by the action of the flexor ongus hallucis, while the first phalanx is acted upon in the same manner by the lombination of these three short muscles. As Duchenne has pointed out, the jbductor and adductor will have an important function in adjusting the pressure ?hen the step has to be made upon uneven ground. Thus, in walking upon , slope the adductor hallucis of the one foot will direct the pressure downwards jud slightly outwards, while the abductor of the other foot will direct the pressure lownwards and slightly inwards. Relations.—Superficially, the flexor longus digitorum tendons and their lumbri- ales; deeply, the interossei with the external plantar vessels and nerve; at the ides, the flexor brevis hallucis and transversus pedis. Variations.—The adductor hallucis sometimes sends a slip to the first phalanx of the lecond toe. 3. TEANSVERSUS PEDIS The transversus pedis—named from the direction of its fibres—is a small jnuscle consisting of three or four fusiform bundles lying side by side, and uniting in h single tendon. Origin.—(1) The plantar ligaments of the three outer metatarso-phalangeal oints; (2) the under surface of the adjacent deep transverse metatarsal ligaments. Insertion.—The outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe. Structure.—The fleshy fibres form a series of small bundles which converge ilightly as they pass inwards and slightly forwards, and after uniting terminate in 1 short tendinous insertion which is closely blended with the outer surface of the endon of the adductor hallucis. Nerve-supply.—From the external plantar division of the posterior tibial nerve )y filaments which pass to the upper part of the posterior edge of the muscle. Action.—(1) To adduct the first phalanx of the great toe ; (2) to draw together he heads of the metatarsal bones after they have been separated by the pressure )f the weight of the body during the tread. Relations.—Superficially, the flexor longus digitorum tendons and lumbricales ; leeply, the interossei. Variations.—Some or all of the bundles may be absent; most frequently the outermost me. Occasionally fibres join the muscle from the fascia covering the interossei below ihe lower border of the adductor hallucis, so that the two muscles are more or less blended. 4. FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI The flexor brevis minimi pedis dig^iti—named from its action upon the little jioe—is small, flattened, and fusiform. ! Orig^in.—(1) The under surface of the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; (2) the jidjacent part of the sheath of the peroneus longus tendon. Insertion.—(1) The outer part of the under surface of the base of the first phalanx ')f the little toe; (2) the outer part of the front of the under surface of the fifth metatarsal bone.