THE MUSCLES 330 Nerve-supply.—FVom the outer and inner cords of the brachial plexus (through the sixth cervical nerve) by means of filaments derived from the median nerve just before it passes through the arch between the two heads. These filaments enter the muscle at its deep surface a short distance above the middle of its outer border. Action. —(1) To pronate the forearm. In supination, the tendon is to some extent wrapped round the radius, as the tendon of the biceps is in pronation. In contraction the muscle, so to speak, unwraps itself and so causes the radius to revolve around the axis, which passes through the middle of its head and the lower end of the ulna. Its insertion into the convexity of the curve of the radius places j lebic the line of the muscle as far as possible from this axis, and so gives it some | lebc^ mechanical advantage. On the other hand, the obliquity of its insertion diminishes ; the power of the muscle, and is one of the causes which make pronation a more j feeble movement than supination. (2) It will also assist in the flexion of the i forearm. I Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia and superficial veins, the radial vessels j and nerve, and, lower down, the brachio-radialis (supinator longus) and radial j extensors. Deeply, the brachialis anticus, flexor sublimis digitorum, supinator j ^^^j^ brevis, and the median nerve. By its outer border it forms the inner boundary of j ^^^^ the bend of the elbow, and by its inner border it is in contact with the flexor carpi j radialis. \ Ijtni Variations.—The pronator radii teres frequently extends at its origin for some distance \ Iscia further up the internal condylar ridge. It may also receive a separate head from the | i[ internal intermuscular septum, the inner border of the humerus, or an abnormal supra- condylar process ; sometimes also from the biceps or brachialis anticus. This third head bridges over the brachial artery and median nerve. 2. FLEXOE CAKPI EADIALIS The flexor carpi radialis—named from its action as a flexor of the wrist and its position on the radial side of the joint—is flat and fusiform. | Origin.—(1) The common tendon from the front of the internal condyle; j (2) the deep fascia and the intermuscular septa which lie between the muscle and j the pronator radii teres, the flexor sublimis digitorum, and the palmaris longus. ! Insertion.—The front of the base of the second metacarpal bone ; and usually j by a smaller slip into that of the third as well. j Structure.—Its fleshy fibres are contained in an aponeurotic case which forms | an elongated four-sided pyramid, the apex being at the internal condyle, and the sides consisting of the deep fascia and the intermuscular septa which intervene j between it and the adjacent muscles. The fleshy fibres converge downwards and j somewhat outwards upon the back of the tendon which begins at the junction of the upper and middle thirds of the forearm, and is free soon after the middle of the forearm, ' Tj At the wrist the tendon passes through a special compartment external to the I feii tube formed by the anterior annular ligament. This compartment is bounded behind by the scaphoid bone and the groove upon the trapezium; externally, by { j,,^^ the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone and the ridge upon the trapezium; and in front and internally by a thickening of the deep fascia of the forearm. It is lined I by a special synovial membrane. Nerve-supply.—From the outer and inner cords of the brachial plexus (through \ the sixth cervical nerve) by filaments from the median nerve which pass to its ' I posterior surface in its upper third. ! h\ Action.—(1) To flex the wrist. By its insertion into the metacarpus it bends not only the radio-carpal joint (which is the wrist joint proper), but also the (] intercarpal and the carpo-metacarpal joints, which really take part in all the \% ietl I ^ \ koi I 11