767 CBANIO-CEBEBBAL TOPOGBAPHY It has been used as a guide-point by the majority of authors, but it may well be replaced, as Poirier has proposed, by the naso-frontal groove. The glabella is variable, being elevated in some skulls, and rounded off to such a degree in others as to be hardly perceptible. Moreover, it is rather an area than a definite point from which measurements could be taken ; while the naso-frontal groove is easily localised, very constant in its relations to the anterior poles of the cerebral hemi- spheres, and is a very convenient point from which to take measurements. The naso-frontal groove (the centre of which is termed the nasion) can be easily recognised in the living head as a definite depression. It corresponds to the suture between the nasal and frontal bones. The orbital arch is easily recognised. Its inner extremity, the internal angular process, is deeply placed. Its outer extremity, the external angular process, is very prominent. The external angular process can be easily felt, and its anterior and posterior borders made out. The posterior border is a very convenient point from which to take measurements. The zygoma, being subcutaneous for its entire extent, is easily recognised. Its upper border corresponds, broadly speaking, to the infero-external border of the temporal lobe. This border, however, frequently dips below the upper border of the zygoma, as may be seen in the series of casts prepared by Professor Cunningham. The zygoma, from the fact of its being practically horizontal, may be of further use in determining the horizontal plane in the recumbent position of the body. The external auditory meatus possesses the advantage of being visible as well as tangible, and (according to Poirier) of bearing a very constant relation to the contents of the cranial cavity. In determining the position of the fissure of Eolando by Eeid's method, the depression in front of the meatus is selected as a landmark. The mastoid process is easily felt, except in young children. The posterior border of the root of this process is the point from which, in Reid's method, a vertical line is drawn to meet the middle line. The superior nuchal line corresponds to the upper limit of the muscles of the neck, and can be felt, in many persons, pursuing a curved course from the posterior border of the mastoid process to the external occipital protuberance. The external occipital protuberance, or inion, is one of the most useful guide- points. It corresponds to the posterior end of the great longitudinal fissure, and can usually be easily made out as a distinct eminence. In some cases it is slightly developed and, in such cases, its position may be determined by following the superior nuchal line towards the mesial line of the head, or by making tense the ligamentum nuchae, which is attached to the protuberance. The parietal eminence is very prominent in the young child, but in the adult it becomes rounded off, and is too obscurely marked to be of much use as a landmark. The sutures are of very little practical use, as they cannot easily be dis- tinguished until the soft parts have been reflected, and, as above mentioned, the sutures vary considerably in their relations to the fissures of the brain. The lambda can, however, be generally made out as a depression immediately in front of the highest point of the occipital bone. Various methods have been employed in determining the relations of the cerebral con- volutions and fissures to the superficial landmarks of the head. Pegs have been driven through the skull, along the sutures, into the brain, and the relations of these sutures to the brain thus ascertained. Much information has also been obtained from the study of sections of frozen heads. Composite photographs of dissections have also been prepared, showing the convolutions, and even the ventricular cavities, of the brain in relation to the surface of the head, the head appearing transparent (Fraser). Lastly, the brain, having been hardened in situ, has been exposed by removing portions of the skull-wall and casts have been made of the preparations (Cunningham). Figs. 433 and 434 are drawn from two of these casts.