112 THE SKELETON of a specimen in which a complete cervical rib existed. Its head articulated with the body of the seventh cervical vertebra and had a stellate lio^ament. The tubercle was well developed, and articulated with the transverse process. The costal cartilage blended with that of the first thoracic rib, and gave attachment to the costo-clavicular ligament. Between it and the first thoracic rib there was a well-marked intercostal space occupied by mtercostal muscles. It received the attachment of the scalenus anticus and viedius muscles, and it was crossed by the subclavian artery and vein. The nerves of the inter- costal space were supplied in part by the eighth cervical and first dorsal. The artery of the space was derived from the deep cervical, which, with the superior intercostal, arose from the root of the vertebral. The head of the first thoracic rib in this specimen articulated with the seventh cervical, as well as with the first thoracic vertebrae. An interesting fact is also recorded in the careful account of this specimen :—There was no movable twelfth thoracic rib on the same side as this w^ell-developed cervical rib, and the twelfth thoracic vertebra had mammillary and accessory processes, and a strong elongated costal process, and was in Imear series with the lumbar transverse processes. Gruber and Turner from a careful and elaborate study of this question summarise the variations in the cervical rib thus :—It ina,y be very short and possess only a head, neck, and tubercle. When it extends beyond the transverse process, its shaft may end freely or join the first thoracic rib : this union may be effected either by bone, cartilage, or ligament. In very rare instances it may have a costal cartilage and join the manubrium of the sternum. Not infrequently a process, or eminence, exists on the first thoracic rib at the spot when it articulates with a cervical rib. Lumbar ribs are of less significance than cervical ribs and rarely attain a great length. Their presence is easily accounted for, as they are the differentiated costal elements of the transverse processes. They are never so complete as in cervical ribs, and articulate only with the transverse processes; the head never reaches as far as the body of the vertebra, and there is no neck or tubercle. An extra levator costce nmscle is associated with a lumbar rib. Not the least interesting variation of a rib is that known as the bicipital rib. This condition is seen exclusively in connection with the first tlioracic rib. The vertebral end consists of two limbs which lie in different transverse planes. These bicipital ribs have been especially studied in whales and man. This abnormality is due to the fusion of two ribs, either of a cervical rib with the shaft of the first thoracic; or the more common form, the fusion of the first and second true ribs. Among unusual variations of ribs should be mentioned the replacement of the costal cartilage and a portion of the rib-shaft by fibrous tissue, a process which occurs as a normal event, during development, in the eighth rib. Sometimes the shafts of two or more ribs may become miited by small quadrilateral plates of bone extending across the intercostal spaces. The sternum is a thin flat bone situated in the anterior Avail of the thorax. In the young subject it consists of six pieces, or sternebrae. Of these, the four middle fuse together to form the gladiolus (mesosternum); the superior remains distinct Fig. 116.—The Thorax at the Eighth Month. (On the left side eight cartilages reach the sternum.)