QUADBATUS LUMBOBUM 435 lese structures ; deeply, the transversalis fascia which separates it from the jritoneum. The sheath of the rectus is formed by the aponeuroses of the three preceding ijiscles. That of the obhquus internus divides into an anterior and posterior ]rer. The anterior layer blended with the aponeurosis of the obliquus externus i-ms the front portion of the sheath. Above, it is attached to the cartilages of i3 fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs; and internally it blends with the posterior jrtion of the sheath along the linea alba. The posterior portion of the sheath is i-med by the posterior layer of the aponeurosis of the obliquus internus, which Jblended with the aponeurosis of the transversalis. Above, it is attached to the Iver edge of the cartilages of the seventh and eighth ribs, and to the ensiform ctilage. Internally it blends with the front portion of the sheath along the ilea alba. Bather nearer the umbilicus than the pubes, the posterior portion of 13 sheath becomes suddenly much thinner and weaker at the fold of Douglas, |ich is a transverse line indicating that the fibres of the abdominal aponeuroses lich have down to this level formed the posterior portion of the sheath, now pass t'its front wall. Below this level the posterior portion of the sheath is formed 1 a thickening of the transversalis fascia (page 436). i POSTEKIOR VERTICAL MUSCLE—QUADBATUS LUMBOBUM I The quadratus lumborum (fig. 286)—named from its approximately square £|ipe and its position in the region of the loins—is a thick quadrilateral sheet. : Origin.—(1) About two inches of the inner lip of the crest of the ilium at the j iction of its middle and posterior thirds ; (2) the ilio-lumbar ligament; (3) the t[S of the transverse processes of the three or four lower lumbar vertebrae. Insertion.—(1) The inner half of the lower border of the last rib ; (2) the tips (the transverse processes of the upper three or four lumbar vertebrae ; and (3) the lirous continuations which pass out from these transverse processes in the spstance of the middle portion of the lumbar fascia, and which represent the Eaominal ribs. I Structure.—This muscle varies considerably in its structure and arrangement, i| origins from and insertions into the transverse processes differing much in Eierent subjects. Its origin is usually by short tendinous intermixed with mus- Mar fibres, and extends at its lower part all along the ilio-lumbar ligament, and Ipind the attachment of this ligament from the inner lip of the crest of the ilium. Be fibres converge somewhat as they ascend; the outermost, passing upwards ii inwards to the middle point of the lower border of the last rib, while the iier fibres pass vertically upwards along the tips of the transverse processes Ii the lumbar vertebrae, from which they receive short tendons, and they some- Bies give tendinous slips to these processes. On the anterior and posterior ilfaces of the muscle are often seen ascending fibres from the transverse pro- Ises, which diverge slightly before they are inserted into the lower border of the I t rib. I Nerve-supply.—From the twelfth thoracic and upper lumbar nerves, by fila- i nts which enter the muscle upon its anterior surface near its inner border. I Action.—(1) It will draw downwards the last rib, and will therefore act as a 13ral flexor of the thorax as well as of the lower thoracic and the lumbar spine ; H it will assist in expiration by drawing down the last rib ; (3) taking its fixed I nt from the last rib, it will draw upwards the crest of the ilium, and so act as a i eral flexor of the pelvis upon the thorax. i Relations.—In front lie the kidney, the colon, the psoas, the lumbar arteries P i nerves, separated from it by the anterior layer of the lumbar fascia. Behind, I F F 2