1109 THE MAMM^ )SS8e and between the gland lobules that gives smoothness and uniformity of surface ) the breast, and when it becomes absorbed during lactation or in conditions of aiaciation, the lobular structure of the gland is distinctly manifest. Structurally each of the component lobes may be regarded as a modified sebaceous land, and hence an appendage of the skin. Each is provided with a single secretory tube (lactiferous or galactophorous duct), which on approaching the ipple is dilated into a sinus or ampulla, and finally ends by a constricted orifice t the apex of the nipple. The acini and smaller tubes are lined with cubical bithelium, which becomes replaced by columnar cells in the excretory ducts. Accessory glands of small size—half a line to tv/o lines in diameter, and to the jamber of five to fifteen—are normally found under the skin of the areola, and pen on to the summit of the nipple. The gland as a whole is not circular in outline, but usually presents three lisps—one towards the sternum, sometimes overlapping the bone ; the others )wards the axilla, one above and the other below ; smaller extensions, moreover, ixss from the base of the gland to the deep fascia, and may pierce it and lie upon or \ the fibres of the pectoral muscle (Heidenhain). These processes are commonly ft behind in amputation of the breast, and may form nuclei for recurrent growth L malignant disease. The mammilla and areola are specially modified portions of the mammary iitegument. The mammilla is placed a little internal and inferior to the centre of le gland, and points forwards and outwards. It is of somewhat conical form, v^eraging about half an inch in length, and terminating by a rounded extremity iiich is pierced by the orifices of the lactiferous ducts. It is of pinkish colour, id is capable of a kind of erection under the influence of cold, mechanical iiimulus, or mental emotion. In some persons it is normally retracted into a ppression of the integument, and only projects in response to stimulation, i The areola is about an inch in diameter, and is characterised by its pigmentation, lie delicacy of its texture, the absence of subcutaneous fat, the large development : its sebaceous and accessory milk glands, and its contractility under the influ- ices which produce erection of the nipple. It is pink in the virgin, but during •regnancy and lactation assumes a brownish shade. The accessory glands, jightly marked in the virgin, form chstinct prominences after impregnation tubercles of Montgomery). The contractility of the nipple and areola is due to the presence of circular id radiating fibres of unstriped muscle in the subcutaneous tissue, the former issing into the substance of the nipple, and forming a network around the lacti- Tous ducts. The circular fibres by their contraction cause the nipple to project; 16 radiating fibres retract it. Variations according" to age and functional activity.—At birth the gland is lily about one-fifth to one-third of an inch in diameter. The nipple with its Sirtos is well formed, and the secreting structure is represented by slightly ramified lets which contain a milky fluid. Growth is slow up to the time of puberty ; I'ter this, development progresses rapidly, but no distinct indication of subdivision ito lobes is present until impregnation takes place. Some slight engorgement of le breast may, however, occur at the menstrual period, when a yellowish glutinous ^cretion may sometimes be expelled from the ducts. In pregnancy and during i-ctation the evolution of the gland-structure is remarkably active. The whole jreast enlarges, the superficial fat undergoes absorption, the vessels become dilated |nd their walls thickened; the areola and nipple increase in size, and the former iecomes more or less deeply pigmented. After the end of lactation the breast [econies smaller, but seldom resumes its original condition of smoothness, firmness, ad elasticity, and some traces of the pigmentation of the areola remain permanent. Ill old age the glandular structures atrophy. t