THE ABTICULATIONS 254 The arteries to the four inner carpo-metacarpal jomts are as follow :— (1) For the index finger: twigs, are supplied by the trunk of the radial on the dorsal and palmar aspects, the metacarpal, the dorsalis indicis, and the radialis indicis. (2) For the middle finger: the metacarpal, first dorsal interosseous by the branch which passes upwards to join the posterior carpal arch, and a branch from the deep palmar arch which joins the anterior carpal arch. (3) For the ring finger: the deep palmar arch and recurrent twigs from the second dorsal interosseous in the same manner as for the middle finger. (4) For the little finger: the ulnar and its deep branch; also twigs from the second dorsal interosseous. The nerves are supplied to these joints by the deep palmar branch of the ulnar, the posterior interosseous, and the median. The movements permitted at these joints, though slight, serve to increase those of the medio-carpal and wrist joints. The joint between the fifth metacarpal and the unciform bones approaches somewhat in shape and mobility the first carpo- metacarpal joint; it has a greater range of flexion and extension, but its lateral movement is nearly as limited as that of the three other metacarpal bones; the ! process of the unciform bone limits its flexion. Lateral motion towards the ulnar j side is checked by the strong palmar band which unites the base of the fifth \ metacarpal to the base of the third, and the strong transverse ligament at the head j of the bones. The mobility of the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones j is very limited, and consists almost entirely of a slight gliding upon the carpal i bones, i.e. flexion and extension ; that of the third and fourth bones is extremely j slight, as there is no long flexor attached to either; but, owing to the close con- i nection of the bases of the metacarpal bones, the flexor and extensor radial and I ulnar muscles act on all by their pull on the particular bone into which they are i inserted. i Abduction, or movement toward the radial side, is prevented by the impaction ' of the second bone against the trapezium; a little adduction is permitted, and is \ favoured by the slope given to the unciform and fifth metacarpal bones. | There is also a slight gliding between the fourth and fifth bones, Avhen the | concavity they present towards the palm is deepened to form the ' cup of Diogenes.' i (b) The Caepo-metacaepal Joint of the Thumb Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Arthroclia. The bones entering into this joint are the base of the first metacarpal, and the i trapezium. The first metacarpal bone diverges from the other four, contrasting : very strongly with the position of the great toe. It is due to this divergence that | the thumb is able to be opposed to each and all the fingers. The ligament which i unites the bones is the Capsular. . The capsular ligament (figs. 231 and 232) consists of fibres which pass from the margin of the articular facet on the trapezium, to the margin of the articular facet at the base of the first metacarpal bone. The fibres are stronger on the dorsal than on the palmar aspect. They are not tense enough to hold the bones in close contact, so that while they restrict they do not prevent motion in any direction. The internal fibres are stronger than the external. The synovial membrane is lax, and distinct from the other synovial membranes of the carpus. The arteries of the carpo-metacarpal joint of the thumb are derived from the trunk of the radial, the arteria princeps pollicis, and the dorsales pollicis.