1066 THE MALE BEPBODUCTIVE OBGANS \ downwards and inwards towards the base of the prostate, where it narrows and : joined by the lower end of the vesicula seminalis. The common tube descend as the ejaculatory duct to open into the prostatic portion of the m^ethra. Tb two vasa deferentia, Avhere they lie in front of the rectmn, are separated by triangular interval, the apex of which is formed by the approximation of tb ejaculatory ducts, and lies immediately above the prostate. The whole of the pelv: portion of the vas is subperitoneal except near its termination, where it is investe only by recto-vesical fascia and an extension of subperitoneal tissue. The enth length of the vas deferens averages about twenty-four inches, of which an inc and a half may be allotted to the testicular stage, three inches to the funicule stage, an inch and three-quarters to the inguinal stage, and the rest to the pelvi stage. It is cylindrical and of uniform diameter (about one-tenth of an inch) i| its funicular, inguinal, and pelvic stages down to the retrovesical portion, an Fig. 624.—Vasa Deferentia and Vesicula Seminales. (After Sappey.) its walls are of great thickness, about one-twenty-fifth of an inch, while its calibre ' extremely small. It is here composed of an outer cellular coat containing vesse and smooth muscular fibres, a threefold muscular coat with external and intern! transverse and middle circular layers, and a mucous membrane lined with cylindrici epithelium. The ampullated retrovesical portion differs from the rest in the thii ness of its walls and in its sacculation (fig. 625). The VESICULA SEMINALES are two diverticular reservoirs situated between tl bladder and rectum external to the ampullae of the vasa deferentia. Each vesicula is of somewhat triangular form, its broad upper extremity lyinl beneath the peritoneum, its apex joining the vas deferens at the base of ttj prostate. It averages about two and a quarter inches in length and half a inch in diameter at its base. It is lobulated on the surface, and on dissectio! is found to consist of a central tube from three to five inches in length, wife