THE ABTICULATIONS 292 The dorsal cubo-metatarsal ligament is composed of fibres which pas?j obliquely outwards and forwards from the cuboid to the bases of the fourth ancf fifth metatarsal bones. They complete the capsule above, and are continuou^j externally with the external cubo-metatarsal ligament. i The interosseous ligament shuts off the cubo-metatarsal from the middle tarsoj metatarsal joint. It is attached to the external cuneiform behind, and to th(i Fig. 258.—Section to show the Synovial Cavities of the Foot. 1. Posterior caloaneo-astragaloid. 4. Tarsal. 2. Calcaneo-cuboid. 5. Cnbo-metatarsal. Anterior calcaneo-astragalo-scaphoid. Pirst metatarso-cuneiform. whole depth of the fourth metatarsal behind its internal lateral facet, and to tt apposed surfaces of the third and fourth bones below their articular facets. It continuous below with the plantar ligament. The synovial membrane is separate from the other synovial sacs of the tarsu and is continued between the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. 7. THE INTERMETATARSAL ARTICULATIONS The bases of the metatarsal bones are firmly held in position by dorsal, planta! and interosseous ligaments. The first occasionally articulates by means of a distinl facet with the second metatarsal (fig. 184). The dorsal ligaments are broad, membranous bands passing between the fo' outer toes on their dorsal aspect ; but in place of one between the first ai second metatarsal bones a ligament extends from the internal cuneiform to tj base of the second metatarsal bone (page 291). The plantar ligaments are strong, thick, well-marked ligaments which conne! the bones on their plantar aspect. I The interosseous ligaments are three in number, very strong, and are situatl at the points of union of the shaft with the bases of the bones, and fill up t| sulci on their sides. They limit the synovial cavities in front of the synovial face! The common synovial membrane of the tarsus extends between the second ai third, and third and fourth bones ; that of the cubo-metatarsal joint extendi between the fourth and fifth. The arterial and nerve-supply is the same as for the tarso-metatarsal jomts.' The movements consist merely of gliding, so as to allow the raising or wideni of the transverse arch. Considerable flexibility and elasticity is thus given to t anterior part of the foot, enabling it to become moulded to the irregularities of t ground.