443 LONGISSIMUS DOBSI—TBACHELO-MASTOID Nerve-supply.—The external branches of the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves from the lower cervical nerves to the last thoracic. Action.—(1) To extend the vertebral column, in the lower cervical, thoracic, and upper lumbar regions ; (2) to flex it laterally in these regions ; (3) to depress the ribs, and so help in expiration. Relations.—Superficially, the trapezius, rhomboidei, latissimus dorsi, the ser- ratus posticus superior and inferior, and the two splenii; deeply, the intercostal muscles and the levatores costarum ; internally, the muscles of the middle division, and the external divisions of the posterior spinal nerves. Middle Division j The middle division extends along the back of the transverse processes of the lumbar and thoracic vertebrae, the articular processes, and adjacent part of the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and ends at the mastoid process of the temporal bone. It consists of the longissimus dorsi, transversalis colli, and trachelo-mastoid. j 5. LONGISSIMUS DORSI The longissimus dorsi—named from its great length and its position in the dorsal region—is a compound muscle forming a long band, with its surfaces directed outwards and inwards, and an anterior margin provided with an outer and inner row of teeth by which it is inserted. I Origin.—(1) The middle part of the erector spinas; and (2) the transverse processes of some of the lower thoracic vertebrae. Insertion.—Externally: (1) the low^er border of the back of the transverse pro- cesses of the upper lumbar vertebrae ; (2) the lower border of the ribs just external to their tubercles. Internally : (1) The accessory tubercles of the upper lumbar and lower thoracic vertebras; and (2) the back of the transverse processes of the rest of the thoracic vertebrae. 6. TRANSVEESALIS COLLI The transversalis colli—named from its attachment to the transverse pro- cesses and its insertion in the neck—is a similar but narrower musculo-tendinous band. Origin.—The back of the transverse processes of the five or six upper thoracic vertebra, internal to the insertion of the preceding muscle. Insertion.—The posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the second to the sixth cervical vertebra. 7. TRACHELO-MASTOID The trachelo-mastoid—named from its origin, part of which is in the neck (TpdxrjXos), and its insertion upon the mastoid process—is a similar but smaller musculo-tendinous band. Origin.—(1) The back of the articular processes of the lower three or four cervical vertebrae ; (2) the back of the transverse processes of the four or five upper thoracic vertebra. Insertion.—The posterior border of the mastoid process.