ZYGOMATIGUS MINOB—DEPBESSOB LABII INFEBIOBIS 467 ' and to some extent of anger also, as when the lip is raised and somewhat everted so as to show the canine tooth. In crying, the action of these muscles is strongly displayed, for when the eyes are closed by the orbicularis palpebrarum, at the same time the mouth is made four-square by the elevation of the inner half of the lip, while the outer half is drawn down by the depressor anguli oris. j Relations.—Superficially, the skin and orbicularis palpebrarum; deeply, the [levator anguli oris, the infraorbital vessels and nerves. j The zygomaticus minor—named from its association with the zygomaticus major and its smaller size—is a small ribbon-shaped band, often absent, and belonging to the superficial sheet of facial muscles. j Origin.—The lower part of the front of the malar bone close to its junction Iwith the maxilla. ! Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin and the subjacent muscular tissue at I point upon the upper border of the prolabium of the upper lip about midway petween the middle line and the outer corner of the mouth. Structure.—Arising fleshy, the small band of parallel fibres which is upon its linner margin closely connected with the preceding muscle, passes downwards and inwards to its insertion, which interlaces with the fibres of the orbicularis oris. Nerve-supply.—The infraorbital branch of the upper division of the facial aerve, which sends filaments to the deep surface of the muscle. Action.—To raise and somewhat evert the part of the upper lip to which it is jittached. Relations.—Superficially, the skin and orbicularis palpebrarum ; deeply, the evator anguli oris, facial portion of the orbicularis oris, and the infraorbital branch )f the facial nerve. The depressor labii inferioris, or quadratus menti—named from its action, or shape, and connection with the chin (mentum)—is a nearly square sheet, and belongs to the second layer of the facial muscles. Origin.—The outer aspect of the lower border of the body of the mandible below he canine and bicuspid teeth. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin and the subjacent muscular mass along I he lower edge of the prolabium of the lower lip. Structure.—It consists of parallel muscular fibres, many of them continuous Y^ih. those of the platysma myoides, which pass upwards and inwards to inter- Ebce with the fibres of the orbicularis oris along the line above mentioned. The nner margins of the muscles of the two sides meet above in the middle line. Nerve-supply.—The supramaxillary branch of the lower division of the facial '.erve, which sends filaments to its deep surface near its outer border. Action.—To draw down and somewhat evert the lower lip. I Relations.—Superficially, the skin and the depressor anguli oris; deeply, the iicial portion of the orbicularis oris, the menta^l vessels, and nerve. 3. ZYGOMATICUS MINOR 4. DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS H H 2