ABDUGTOB HALLUCIS—FLEXOB BBEVIS DIGITOBUM 401 In the web between the toes some thin transverse fibres are found, the superficial Ifcransverse ligament of the toes. They bridge over part of the interval between the five shps into which the front part of the central division of the plantar fascia breaks up. The muscles and tendons in the sole of the foot are divided into four layers. The first layer consists of three muscles, which correspond in their position to the hree compartments formed by the plantar fascia and the two intermuscular septa, iz. the abductor hallucis, the flexor brevis digitorum, the abductor minimi digiti. 4 First Layer 1. ABDUCTOR HALLUCIS The abductor hallucis—named from its action upon the great toe—is a thick riangular sheet, with a broad origin behind, which is divided into two heads. Origin.—Outer head : (1) The front and inner surfaces of the inner or greater ' ubercle on ihe under surface of the calcaneum ; (2) the deep surface of the inner -ortion of the plantar fascia ; (3) the intermuscular septum which separates it rem the flexor brevis digitorum. Inner head: (1) The deep aspect of the lower order of the internal annular ligament; (2) the under surface of the attachment f the tendon of the tibialis posticus to the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone and the djacent prolongations of this tendon. Insertion.—The inner part of the lower surface of the base of the first phalanx f the great toe and the inner side of the internal sesamoid bone. Occasionally, Iso, the inner border of the expansion of the extensor proprius hallucis on the ack of the first phalanx. Structure.—The outer head arises in close connection with the flexor brevis ■gitorum by short tendinous fibres, soon succeeded by a divergent fleshy bundle hich is joined about two inches from its origin by the fleshy sheet formed by the ner head. The tendon to which these fleshy fibres converge appears first upon he inner and lower aspect of the muscle, and receives fleshy fibres nearly to its sertion, which is closely blended with that of the inner portion of the flexor brevis allucis. The deep surface of the muscle arises from a fibrous arch attached on he one side to the septum between it and the flexor brevis digitorum; on the other ide to the tibialis posticus tendon and the fibrous tissue covering the under surface !f the tarsal bones along the inner border of the foot. Through this arch pass le plantar vessels and nerves. Nerve-supply.—The internal plantar division of the posterior tibial nerve, b^ laments which enter the deep surface of the middle of the muscle. Action.—(1) To flex the first phalanx upon the metatarsal bone ; (2) to abduct rem the middle line of the foot the first phalanx of the great toe. Relations.—Superficially, the internal division of the plantar fascia; upon its uter border, the flexor brevis digitorum ; deeply, the tendons of the tibialis iiiiticus, tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, the plantar vessels and nerves. Variations.—A third head is occasionally derived fi'om the deep surface of the skin ipon the inner border of the foot, or from the long plantar ligament. The muscle may give slip to the second toe. 2. FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM The flexor brevis digitorum pedis, or flexor perforatus—named from its being e shorter of the flexors of the four outer toes—is a triangular sheet, divided in rent into four processes corresponding to the tendons of the toes. DD