THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 748 but is now known to be a rudimentary unpaired eye. This pineal eye lies close to the surface in some of the lower vertebrates, and was probably functional at a former period. A great parietal foramen in the extinct reptile Ichthyosaurus is strongly suggestive of a functional pineal eye. The posterior commissure is a transverse band of fibres which projects into the posterior part of the cavity of the third ventricle. It contains fibres which connect the optic thalami of opposite sides. It probably contains decussating fibres derived from the fillet (page 782), from the posterior longitudinal bundles, and from the brachia of the nates (page 751). It belongs, therefore, more to the mesencephalon than to the thalamencephalon. The subthalamic tegmental region and the corpora geniculata will be more conveniently described with the mesencephalon. Fig. 423.—Coronal Section through the Third Ventricle behind the Middle Commissure. (Gegenbaur.) CORPUS CALLOSUiM FORNIX OPTIC THALAMUS MIDDLE COMMISSURE SUBSTANTIA NIGRA CRUST A. The basal grey commissure is a continuous plate of grey matter which is formed from behind forwards by the posterior perforated space, the tuber cinereum, and the lamina cinerea. The posterior perforated space is a stratum of grey matter which is perforated by a number of small vessels derived from the commencements of the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries. It occupies the back part of the inter- peduncular space and extends for a short distance under cover of the pons, where it bounds a recess, the foramen caecum anterius. It is continuous laterally with the grey matter of the tegmenta of the crura cerebri, and is attached in front to the corpora albicantia. The portion of the space which is situated in front of the exit of the third nerve forms part of the floor of the third ventricle ; the posterior part belongs to the mesencephalon. The corpora albicantia appear as a pair of white knobs in the base of the brain. Each contains in its interior a grey nucleus. This nucleus is joined by the anterior pillar of the fornix and the bundle of Vicq d'Azyr of the same side. The bundle of Vicq d'Azyr passes upwards and forwards through the grey matter of the optic thalamus to the anterior tubercle of that body. The tuber cinereum is a grey elevation placed immediately behind the optic