521 TEMPOBAL POSTEBIOB AUBIGULAB— gland to the notch between the margin of the external auditory meatus and the mastoid process, where it divides into two branches, an anterior or auricular, and I posterior or mastoid. In this course it rests on the styloid process, crosses the 5pinal accessory nerve, and is crossed itself by the facial nerve. Beanches of the Posterior Aueicular Aetery The brandies of the posterior auricular artery are:—(1) The parotid ; (2) the nuscular; (3) the stylo-mastoid ; (4) the anterior terminal, or auricular ; (5) the losterior terminal, or mastoid (fig. 335). (1) The parotid branches are distributed to the lower portion of the parotid iiand, and anastomose with the other parotid arteries. j (2) The muscular branches supply the posterior belly of the digastricus, the tylo-hyoid, and retrahens aurem muscles. (3) The stylo-mastoid branch comes off from the posterior auricular artery ist before it reaches the notch between the margin of the external auditory meatus nd the mastoid process, and, following the facial nerve upwards, enters the stylo- ^lastoid foramen in the temporal bone. In the aqueduct of Fallopius it gives off the )llowing named twigs '.—{a) meatal, to the external auditory meatus ; {b) mastoid, ) the mastoid cells and mastoid antrum ; (c) stapedic, which runs forwards to 16 stapedius muscle; (cl) tympanic, which anastomoses with the tympanic branch |E the internal maxillary, forming with it in the foetus a vascular circle around the jiembrana tympani; (e) vestibular, to the vestibule and semicircular canals ; and \') terminal, a small twig which enters the hiatus Fallopii with the great super- |cial petrosal nerve, and anastomoses with the petrosal branch of the middle iieningeal artery. j (4) The anterior terminal or auricular branch passes upwards behind the ear [id beneath the retrahens aurem, supplying the back of the pinna and neighbour- ig integuments. It anastomoses with the posterior branch of the superficial tem- pral artery. The branches to the pinna not only supply the back of that structure, |it some perforate the cartilage, and others turn over its free margin to supply the jont surface; there they anastomose with the anterior auricular branches from jie temporal. (5) The posterior terminal, or mastoid or occipital branch, passes upwards and (ickwards, crossing the aponeurotic insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It Ives a branch to the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis, and anastomoses with |.e occipital artery. I 7. THE TEMPOEAL AETEKY I The temporal artery, or superficial temporal artery—the smaller of the two miinal divisions of the external carotid, though apparently the direct continu- ion of that vessel—arises opposite the neck of the lower jaw and, under cover of e parotid gland, passes upwards in the interval between the condyle and the ' ternal auditory meatus to the zygoma. Thence it ascends over the posterior root ' that process and the temporal aponeurosis for about an inch and a half to two j3hes (4 cm.), and there divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. It j surrounded by a dense plexus of sympathetic nerves, and is accompanied by the jriculo-temporal nerve, which lies beneath and generally a little behind it. It is 'j)ssed by the temporo-facial division of the facial nerve, and by the attrahens irem muscle. As it crosses the zygoma it can be readily felt pulsating immediately -I front of the ear, and in this situation can be compressed against the bone. It is r;jk \^ qihte superficial, being merely covered by the integuments and the delicate jisl iplongation from the cervical fascia.