THE PALATE 981 The Palato-Pharyngeus—named from its attachments—is a thin sheet. Origin.—(1) From the aponem'osis of the soft palate by two heads which are bparated by the insertion of the levator palati; (2) one or two narrow bundles :om the lower part of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube {salpmgo-johary?igeus). Insertion.—(1) By a narrow fasciculus into the posterior border of the thyroid [irtilage near the base of the superior cornu; (2) by a broad expansion into the ;brous layer of the pharynx at its lower part. Structure.—The upper head of the muscle consists of scattered fibres which ijlend with the opposite muscle across the middle line; the lower head is thicker, nd follows the curve of the posterior border of the palate. The two heads with le fasciculus from the Eustachian tube form a compact muscular band in the osterior pillar of the fauces ; the fibres mingle with those of the stylo-pharyngeus, nd then expand upon the lower part of the pharynx. Nerve-supply.—From the pharyngeal plexus. Action.—(1) Approximates the posterior pillars of the fauces; (2) depresses he soft palate ; (3) elevates the pharynx. ! The Levator Palati—named from its action on the soft palate—is somewhat punded in its upper, but flattened in its lower half. I Origin.—(1) The under surface of the petrosal anterior to the orifice of the |irotid canal; (2) the lower margin of the cartilage of the Eustachian tube. [ Insertion.—The aponeurosis of the soft palate ; the terminal fibres of the luscle of each side meet in the middle line in front of the azygos uvulae. Structure.—Its origin is by a short tendon ; the muscle then becomes fleshy, ad continues so to its insertion. Nerve-supply.—It is usual to describe this muscle as being enervated by the Lcial through the petrosal branch of the Vidian. The nerve is supposed to reach le muscle in the branching of the posterior palatine. Stimulation of the facial ■unk within the skull of monkeys produces no result on the soft palate, whereas simulation of the eleventh causes elevation of the soft palate on the same side, he motor branch probably passes to the palate in the upper branch of the pharyn- 3al plexus. (Horsley and Beevor.) Action.—(1) To raise up the palate, and bring it in contact with the posterior jail of the pharynx; (2) when the muscle contracts it presses up and closes the laryngeal orifice of the Eustachian tube (Cleland). This action is not admitted f many anatomists. The Tensor Palati—named from its action on the soft palate—is a thin, flat, id narrow sheet. Origin.—(1) The scaphoid fossa at the root of the internal pterygoid plate; ) the alar spine of the sphenoid; (3) the outer side of the pharyngeal extre- jity of the Eustachian tube. Insertion.—(1) Into the transverse ridge on the under surface of the horizontal ate of the palate bone ; (2) the aponeurosis of the soft palate. Structure.—Its belly as it descends between the internal pterygoid muscle and .e internal pterygoid plate is muscular. On approachmg the hamular process it icomes tendinous, and continues so to its insertion. A bursa is interposed between e hamular process and the tendon. The belly of the muscle is at nearly a right iigle with its tendon. Nerve-supply.—From the otic ganglion on the mandibular division of the fifth : irve. Actions.—(1) Tightens the soft palate; (2) opens the Eustachian tube during < glutition. The Azygos Uvulae—named because it was supposed to be a single muscle. Origin.—(1) From the aponeurosis of the soft palate; (2) the nasal spine of e palate bone k