405 LUMBBICALES—FLEXOB BBEVIS HALLUCIS gament of the toes and beneath the deep transverse ligament of the metatarsus ) the side of the expansion of the extensor tendon. ' Nerve-supply.—The two inner are supplied by the internal plantar division of 16 posterior tibial nerve, by filaments which enter the back part of the lower irface of each muscle near its inner border; the two outer, by the external lantar nerve, by filaments which enter the deep part of each muscle near its ater border. Action.—(1) To flex the first phalanx of the toe; (2) to straighten the second ad third phalanges. (3) The first will abduct the second toe from the axis lassing through it, which is looked upon as the middle line of the foot. The three ithers will adduct. The lumbricales will be able to act upon the first phalanges, wen when the second and third have been flexed by means of their special flexors. I'he chief advantage derived from the simultaneous extension of the two terminal halanges and the flexion of the first phalanx is the application of the whole length ,f the toe to the ground in walking ; otherwise there would be a strong tendency j) the flexion of the phalanges of the toes, which would prevent the proper Ipplication of the soft plantar aspect of the ungual phalanx to the ground. Relations.—Superficially, the flexor brevis digitorum. Deeply, the flexor longus igitorum tendons, the transversalis pedis, and the interossei. I Third Layer ! The third layer consists of four muscles—the flexor brevis hallucis, the adductor [allucis, the transversus pedis, and the flexor brevis minimi digiti. I 1. FLEXOK BREVIS HALLUCIS The flexor brevis hallucis, or flexor brevis pollicis pedis—named from its ction, and its size in comparison with the other flexor of the great toe—is a thick idangular sheet with a forked insertion. Origin.—(1) The plantar ligaments and the continuations of the tibialis 'osticus tendon in the middle of the sole ; (2) the inner part of the under surface f the cuboid bone. Insertion.—The inner and outer borders of the plantar aspect of the base of the rst phalanx of the great toe. [ Structure.—Arising fibrous by a pointed process in the middle of the sole, the Ibres diverge as they pass forwards and slightly inwards, and form two fleshy I undies of equal size, which are succeeded by short tendons. In each tendon is ontained a sesamoid bone of ovoid shape about three-eighths of an inch in the long ntero-posterior diameter, and a quarter of an inch from side to side, with a artilaginous articular facet upon the upper surface which plays upon the lower urface of the condyles of the first metatarsal bone. At their insertion into the inner nd outer part of the lower border of the base of the first phalanx, they are blended Idth the tendons of the abductor and the adductor hallucis. t Nerve-supply.—From the internal plantar division of the posterior tibial nerve, y filaments which enter the under surface of the muscle near the middle of its iner border. Action.—To flex and slightly adduct the first phalanx of the great toe. The [esamoid bones give a slight obliquity to its insertion, and so enable it to act with jiore power ; at the same time they form a groove in which the strong tendon of lie flexor longus hallucis plays. They also form a somewhat elastic support when he weight is placed upon the ball of the foot. Relations.—Superficially, the abductor hallucis, the tendon of the flexor longus