366 THE MUSCLES MUSCLES OF THE FEONT OF THE THIGH In front of the thigh there is a group of four muscles, the chief function of which is to flex the hip joint. Two of these muscles arise within the abdomen, and two from the margin of the innominate bone. The two which come from within the abdomen are the psoas and iliacus, and they act together as one muscle, and have been described as such under the name of the ilio-psoas. The third and fourth are the sartorius and pectineus. 1. PSOAS The psoas, or psoas magnus—named from the Greek word i/^oa, meaning the muscles of the loins—is thick, rounded, and fusiform. Origin.—Inner part, by five processes which arise from (1) the sides of the intervertebral cartilages which intervene between the bodies of the last thoracic and the five lumbar vertebrae ; and (2) the adjacent part of the sides of the bodies of these vertebras; and between these processes from (3) tendinous arches which bridge over the sides of the bodies of these vertebrae. Outer part, from the loweri border and the front of the transverse processes of all the lumbar vertebrae. Insertion.—The lower and back part of the lesser trochanter of the femur. Structure.—With the exception of the small tendinous arches which span' the side of each of the four upper lumbar vertebrae from its upper to its lower border, and which give passage to the lumbar vessels, the whole origin of the muscle is fleshy. The fibres pass downwards and forwards in penniform fashion, but with a slight convergence, to the inner side of the tendon, which, beginning in the interior of the muscle about the level of the crest of the ilium, becomes free upon its outer and posterior surface a short distance above Poupart's ligament, while upon its inner surface it receives fibres down to its insertion. The muscle,! having hitherto run in a downward, forward, and slightly outward direction,! changes its course at Poupart's ligament, and passes downwards and backwards to be attached to the lesser trochanter of the femur. In its passage along the, brim of the pelvis and over the lower part of the iliac fossa, the tendon uponj its anterior and outer aspect begins to receive the insertion of the iliacus^ muscle. Between the tendon and the capsule of the hip joint which is in close connection with it, is placed a bursa which frequently communicates through j an opening in the capsule with the interior of the hip joint. ! Nerve-supply.—From the anterior primary branches of the second and third | lumbar nerves by filaments which are given off from the lumbar plexus whilst it is passing through the muscle. Action.—The psoas is a powerful flexor of the thigh upon the pelvis, e.g. in walking, running, or going upstairs. The change in the direction of the tendon after crossing the horizontal ramus of the pubes makes its insertion nearly per- pendicular to the axis of the femur. The psoas therefore acts with less mechanical disadvantage than is usual with the muscles of the limbs. It has been sometimes described as an external rotator of the hip ; and its insertion into the lesser! trochanter at the inner side of the femur would appear to favour this view; but a little consideration will show that, although it is attached on the inner side of the! femur, yet on account of the angle which the neck of the femur forms with its shaft j this point of attachment is really external to the axis about which the rotation! of the femur takes place. It will follow, therefore, that any power of rotation exercised by this muscle will be rather internal than external. j Acting from below, the psoas will flex the lower thoracic and the lumbar spine