OF THE BADIUS WITH THE ULNA 243 The oblique ligament (fig. 228) is a fairly strong, narrow band, which passes n the lower end of the rough outer border of the coronoid process, downwards [ outwards to be attached to the posterior edge of the lower end of the pital tuberosity of the radius and the vertical ridge running from it to the er border of the bone. Borne of its fibres blend with the fibres of insertion of biceps tendon ; behind, it is in close contact with the sujnnator brevis ; below, lin membrane passes off from it to the upper edge of the interosseous mem- ae; the posterior interosseous vessels pass in the sjoace between it and the irosseous membrane. The interosseous membrane (fig. 228) is attached to the ulna at the lowest t of the ridge in front of the depression for the supinator brevis, and along whole length of the interosseous border as far as the inferior radio-ulnar culation, approaching the front of the bone in the lower part of its attach- it. To the radius it is attached along the interosseous border, from an inch cm.) below the bicipital tuberosity to the sigmoid notch for the lower end of ulna. It is strongest and broadest in the centre, where the fibres are dense closely packed ; it is also well marked beneath the loronator quadratus, and kens considerably at the lower end, forming a strong band of union between two bones. Its fibres pass chiefly downwards and inwards, from the radius he ulna, though some take the opposite direction ; at the lower end some transverse. On the posterior surface are one or two bands, which pass down- Is and outwards from the ulna to the radius, and frequently there is a strong die as large as the oblique ligament; this should be called the inferior oblique ment (fig. 234), and it stretches from the ulna, an inch and a half above its ii extremity, downwards and outwards to the ridge above and behind the sigmoid ih of the radius. kt its attachment to the bones the interosseous membrane blends with the osteum. Its upper border is connected with the oblique ligament by a thin ibrane, which is pierced by the posterior interosseous vessels; and the lower ier, which stretches across between the two bones just above the inferior radio- articulation, assists in completing the capsule of that joint. Its anterior Eice is in relation with the flexor iwof undus digitorum njiid flexor longus ijollicis he upper three-quarters, the lower fourth being in relation with the ijronator Iratus. The anterior interosseous vessels and nerve descend along the lie of the membrane, the artery being bound down to it. About an inch 1 the lower end, it is pierced by the anterior interosseous artery. The posterior ice is in relation with the sujrinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi, extensor li, extensor secundi internodii ijollicis, and the extensor indicis ; also, with the srior branch of the anterior interosseous artery. (c) The Infeeior Eadio-ulnar Joint Class.—Diartlirosis. Subdivision.—Lateral Gimjlymus. I^his is, in one respect, the reverse of the superior; for the radius, instead of anting a circular head to rotate upon the facet on the ulna, presents a concave ; which rolls round the ulna. The articulation may be said to consist of two 3 at right angles to one another : one between the radius and ulna, and the r between the ulna and triangular fibro-cartilage. -he ligaments are :— Anterior radio-ulnar. ' Posterior radio-ulnar. Triangular fibro-cartilage. -he triangular fibro-cartilage (figs. 234, 235) assists the radius in forming rch under which is received the first row of carpal bones. Its base is attached , e2