INGUINAL HEBNIA 1163 On the posterior wall are certain cords and depressions, marking off regions which correspond to those on the surface. Thus, there are three prominent cords, and three fossae. Three cords—(1) Median, or urachiis ; (2) lateral, or the obliterated hypogastric arteries. (1) Median, or urachus. This interesting foetal relic, the intra-abdominal part of the allantois, passes up between the apex of the bladder and the umbilicus, and by so doing—(a) keeps the bladder up, especially in early life, when the pelvic cavity is but little developed; {h) it keeps the bladder well up so that it shall be above the level of the urethra, and so more easily emptied; (c) it provides, by thus keeping up the bladder, that it shall enlarge in a direction which will admit of the greatest amount of distension, i.e. one between the lower or yielding part of the abdominal wall and the hollow of the rectum, which is compressible. (2) The obliterated hypogastric arteries. These, the remains of vessels which during foetal life carry the impure blood of the foetus out to the mother through » Fig. 708.—Vertical Section of Pelvis passing through the Heads of the Thigh Bones. (Blandin.) Deep epigmtric vessels Internal abdominal ring Fascia iliaca Obliterated Jii/pogastric External iliac vein X^StX'i^^.OIS^"'a ■ ! \ wivfSiMif/i'/'J Jf artery ILIUM VAS DEFERENS CRURAL CANAl Pelvic fascia Obturator fascia Levator ani Hecto-vesical fascia / RECTUM ISCHIO-RECTAL FOSSA BLADDER INTERNAL PUDIC VESSELS AND NERVE the umbilicus, run up and join the urachus at the umbilicus. In relation to these cords are the following foss8B: [a) An internal one, between the urachus and the obliterated hypogastric artery. This corresponds, on the anterior surface, to the external abdominal ring. Through this fossa comes direct inguinal hernia. [h) Between the obliterated hypogastric artery and the deep epigastric artery, running upwards and inwards to form the outer boundary of Hesselbach's triangle, is a middle fossa. This is the smallest of all. (c) The external fossa is outside the deep epigastric artery. It is the most distinct of the three from the way in which the cord or round ligament passes down within a glove-like process of the transversalis fascia. This fossa corresponds to the internal ring. Causes of hernia.—It will be well, while the anatomy of hernia is being con- sidered, to refer briefly to the causes, as many of these are intimately bound up with the anatomy of the parts. Amongst the chief are the following :— (1) Hereditary, viz. weakness of abdominal wall; openness of rings. (2) "Weak spots.—[a] The presence of the cord; {h) deficiency of some of the