955 THYBOID GLAND areolar tissue, is made up of a number of closed follicles. These are surrounded by an open vascular meshwork supported by the interstitial connective tissue. The follicles are grouped into irregular lobules, and these form in turn the lobes of the gland. Both the interior of the follicles and the spaces in the connecting areolar tissue may become filled with colloid material. Vessels.—The arteries—which are relatively very large and frequently ana- stomose—are the two superior thyroids, the two inferior thyroids, and an occasional branch which ascends on the front of the trachea, the thyroidea ima. This latter is derived either from the innominate artery or from the arch of the aorta. The superior thyroid arteries descend to supply the apices and inner and fore parts of the lateral lobes ; whilst the inferior ascend to supply their outer and binder portions below. The veins are the superior middle and the inferior thyroid. The two former Fig. 539.—The Suspensory Ligaments of the Thyroid Body. (After Berry.) Crieo-arytenoideus; posticus LATERAL BONE OF THYROID GLAND Suspensory ligament of tlie left side RECURRENT LARYNGEAL NERVE join the internal jugular vein, and the latter the innominate of the corresponding side. The nerves are derived from the inferior and middle cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. I THE THYMUS BODY OR GLAND The thymus body, like the thyroid, is ductless. It reaches its highest de- velopment about the end of the second year. Although it occasionally retains a considerable size in the adult, it usually disappears or shrivels away to an insignificant vestige. It is commonly made up of two elongated, nearly equal pyramidal lobes of a greyish pink colour, which meet one another near the middle line; but they vary jin number and are inconstant in size. There may be but a single lobe present, I or a third may intervene between the other two. Sometimes the right lobe and sometimes the left lobe is the larger. The thymus body is about two inches in length, about one inch and a half in breadth at its base, and a quarter of an inch in thickness.