77 THE SPHENO-MAXILLABY FOSSA wing of the sphenoid behind the pterygoid ridge and a small piece of the squamosal form part of the upper boundary of the fossa. The chief objects of interest in this region are :—The spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary fissures, the pteryg^oid ridge on the sphenoidal wing, the fora- men ovale, foramen spinosum, and the articular eminence of the squamosal. The spheno-maxillary fissure is horizontal in position, and lies between the orbital border of the maxilla and the greater wing of the sphenoid; externally it is completed usually by the malar ; frequently the sphenoid will join the maxilla and exclude the malar bone from the fissure; internally it is terminated by the zygomatic surface of the orbital process of the palate bone. Through this fissure the orbital, spheno-maxillary, and zygomatic fossae communicate. The zygomatic fossa lodges the temporal, external pterygoid, and internal p)terygoicl muscles. The pterygo-maxillary fissure forms a right angle with the preceding. It is situated between the maxilla and the anterior border of the external pterygoid process. At its lower angle the external pterygoid plate occasionally articulates Fig. 84.—A Section of the Skull, showing the Inner Wall of the Orbit, the Base of the Antrum, and the Spheno-maxillary Fossa. NASAL with the maxilla. The pterygo-maxillary fissure leads from the zygomatic fossa directly into the spheno-maxillary fossa, a small space shaped like an inverted pyramid, situated between the maxilla and the roots of the pterygoid processes. The roof of this fossa is formed by the under surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid. The anterior boundaries are a small portion of the zygomatic surface of the maxilla and the orbital process of the palate ; posteriorly it has the roots of the pterygoid pro- cesses, and the low^er part of the orbital surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid ; and internally the vertical plate of the palate bone. The apex of the pyramid leads into the posterior palatine canal. The inner wall presents the spheno-palatine foramen which leads into the nasal fossa. The posterior wall has three openings in the following order, from without inwards, and from above downwards: the foramen rotundum, Vidian canal, and pterygo-paiatine canal. Anteriorly it com- municates with the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure; and externally the pterygo-maxillary fissure leads into the zygomatic fossa. This fossa is mainly of interest on account of its relation to the spheno-palatine (Meckel's) ganglion. The various foramina and canals connected with the fossa