35 THE SPHENOID fissure ; this serves for the passage of the third, fourth, first division (ophthahnic) of the fifth, and the sixth nerves, with the ophthahnic vein. External to this, the margin is broad and serrated for the frontal bone; quite at the tip it is bevelled on its inner aspect for the anterior inferior angle of the parietal; behind this, the edge, at first thin and bevelled, becomes gradually broader, and deeply serrated for the squamosal, and runs into the prominent alar spine of the sphenoid, to which the spheno-mandibular ligament is attached. That portion of the circumference extending from the spine to the body of the sphenoid articulates by the outer third with the petrosal, but the inner two-thirds forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum medium, and contains the posterior orifice of the Vidian canal. Projecting at right angles from the greater wing, near its junction with the lingulae, are the pterygoid processes. Of these, the external, broad and thin, forms by its outer surface the inner wall of the zygomatic fossa, and affords attachment to the external ijterycjoid muscle. From its inner surface the internal pterygoid takes origin. The internal pterygoid plate is narrower and longer than the external. Its inner surface forms part of the outer boundary of the nasal fossa, and by a thin ledge of bone, called the vaginal process, extends to the under surface of the basi- sphenoid to articulate with the ala of the vomer, and anteriorly with the sphenoidal process of the palate bone. Immediately above this ledge of bone is the pterygo- palatine groove (converted into a canal by the sphenoidal process of the palate bone), for an artery and nerve of the same name. At the point where the internal pterygoid plate comes into relation with the great wing and the lingula, there is the Vidian canal. This canal is 3 cm. long, and transmits the Vidian nerve and artery. The outer surface of the internal pterygoid plate forms the inner boundary of the pterygoid fossa ; its posterior border is prolonged into a hamular process, smooth on its under aspect, for the bursa between it and the tensor (circumflexus) palati. From the lower third of the posterior border and the hamular process the su2)erior constrictor of the pharynx takes origin. The anterior borders of these processes diverge below, and have rough edges for articulation with the tuberosity of the palate bone ; the gap between them is the pterygoid notch. Above, the pterygoid processes form a triangular surface, which constitutes the posterior boundary of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and presents above the anterior orifice of the Vidian, and more internally the commencement of the pterygo-palatine canals. The anterior border of the internal pterygoid plate articulates with the posterior border of the vertical plate of the palate bone. The recess between the two pterygoid plates posteriorly is subdivided. The upper, smaller and shallower depression is the scaphoid fossa; it gives origin to the tensor (circumflexus) palati. The lower, deeper and larger, is the pterygoid fossa; it lodges the internal pterygoid and tensor palati muscles. The fossa is completed by the tuberosity of the palate bone. Articulations.—The sphenoid articulates with the following bones : ethmoid, frontal, parietal, temporal, epipteric, palate, vomer, occipital, malar, sphenoidal turbinals, and occasionally with the maxilla. Muscles.—It gives origin to the following muscles :— Temporal. External rectus of the eyeball. Internal pterygoid. Internal rectus ,, ,, External pterygoid. Superior rectus ,, ,, Tensor tympani. Superior oblique „ „ Tensor palati. LcA^ator palpebrje. Ligaments.—The sphenoid has numerous intrinsic ligaments which occasionally ossify and produce adventitious foramina. Of these, the more important are :— D 2