148 THE SKELETON The phalanges of the second row are shorter than those of the first row Then- bases present two shallow pits, separated by a ridge. The terminal, third, or ungual phalanges have an expanded shaft for th support of the nail. The bases are identical in shape with those of the second rcw Ossification.—Each phalanx ossifies from two centres : one for the shaft which is deposited between the eighth and tenth week ; and a nucleus for th epiphysis at the proximal end, which appears betw^een the third and fifth years Consolidation begins at the seventeenth, and is complete by the eighteenth year. The ossification of the terminal phalanx is peculiar. Like the other phalange it has a nucleus for the shaft and a secondary nucleus for the epiphysis ; but tb centre for the shaft appears at the tip of the phalanx ; whereas in the othe phalanges the earthy matter is deposited in the middle of the shaft. THE HIP-BONE The hip-bone (innominate bone) is of irregular shape, resembling someivhat th blade of a screw propeller. It consists of three parts, which, though separate ii early life, are, in the adult, firmly ankylosed. The three parts meet together a the cotyloid cavity or acetabulum. They are named ilium, ischium, and pubes. The ilium is the upper expanded portion ; it articulates with the sacrum, an( forms the upper two-fifths of the acetabulum. The ischium is the lowest part of th bone ; it forms the posterior and inferior two-fifths of the acetabulum, and assist the pubes to form the obturator foramen. The pubes forms the anterior one-fift of the acetabulum, completes the obturator foramen, and stretches towards th median line to meet with the opposite pubes to form a symphysis. Each par requires separate consideration. The ilium has two surfaces : the external surface, or dorsum, is convex in it, general contour. It is limited superiorly by the semicircular crest, and is crossec by the three gluteal ridges. The superior gluteal ridge commences at the cres about 5 cm. (2'^) from its posterior termination, and passes downwards to th middle of the greater sciatic (ilio-sciatic) notch. The space included between thi ridge and the crest gives origin to the gluteus maximus, and at its lower part to a h^v fibres of iYiQinjiiformis. The middle gluteal ridge extends from the crest 2*5 cm. (1" behind its anterior extremity, and passes across the dorsum to terminate near th(, posterior end of the superior gluteal ridge, at the greater sciatic notch. The surface^ of bone between this ridge and the crest is for the origin of the gluteus medius. Th(, inferior gluteal ridge begins in the notch separating the anterior iliac spines, anc terminates posteriorly in the middle of the greater sciatic notch. The space betweei the middle and inferior ridges gives origin to the gluteus minimus, except a smal j area adjacent to the anterior superior iliac spine for the tensor vagince femoris- The bone between the inferior gluteal ridge and the margin of the acetabulun affords attachment to the capsule of the hip-joint. Towards its anterior part then, is a rough surface for the reflected tendon of the rectus. The internal surface of the ilium consists of an anterior concave portion, termeCj the iliac fossa; it lodges the iliacus muscle. The fossa is limited below by th(j ilio-jjectmeal line ; this line receives, at its anterior part, the insertion of the psoai] parvus. A small portion of the ilium extends below the ilio-pectineal line to meet the ischium. The surface posterior to the fossa is divided into an auricular surfacei for articulation with the lateral aspect of the upper portion of the sacrum, and si superior rough surface—the tuberosity—for the posterior sacro-iliac and ilio-lumbai