1 484 THE MUSCLES 1. SCALENUS ANTICUS The scalenus anticus—named from its shape (scalenus = of unequal sides, bein a term applied to certain triangles in geometry) and its relation to its fellows—' a thick triangular sheet. j Origin.—The scalene tubercle near the inner border of the upper surface of tt| first rib. \ Insertion.—The anterior tubercles of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervicii vertebrae. Structure.—Arising by a short, somewhat flattened tendon, which is continue upwards for a short distance upon the front and outer surface of the muscle, tl fleshy fibres diverge as they pass upwards and slightly backwards and inwards' be inserted by four short tendons into the transverse processes. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior primary branches of the fourth, fifth, aii sixth cervical nerves close to their points of emergence. j Action.—(1) The rib being fixed, it will help to flex, and laterally flex, the nee j and to rotate it so as to turn the face to the opposite side ; (2) it will raise the firj rib, especially in forced inspiration. j Relations.—In front lie the sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoid, and subclavius, tlj internal jugular vein, the subclavian vein and pneumogastric nerve ; on the inn side are the rectus capitis anticus major, longus colli, and the sympathetic con on the outer side and behind emerge the anterior primary branches of t] cervical nerves separating it from the scalenus medius ; and lower down it cross in front of the second part of the subclavian artery and the pleura. 2. SCALENUS MEDIUS The scalenus medius—named from its shape and position—is an elongat | triangular sheet. j Origin.—The upper surface of the first rib between the tuberosity and thegroo for the subclavian artery. Insertion.—The front of the posterior tubercles of the six lower cervical vertebi and frequently also the lower part of the lateral mass of the atlas. , Structure.—Arising by a broad band, tendinous in front and muscular behii the fleshy fibres form a thick sheet of slightly divergent fibres, which run upwai i and inwards to end upon the vertebrae in six short tendons. Nerve-supply.—The posterior primary branches of the cervical nerves as so] as they emerge supply numerous filaments to the inner part of its anterior surfai Action.—Acting from below, to flex the neck laterally; acting from above, ' raise the first rib as in forced inspiration, or to fix it in ordinary inspiration. Relations.—In front lie the sterno-mastoid, omo-hyoid, and trapezius, \ s subclavian artery, cervical and brachial plexuses ; behind, it is in contact with 15 levator anguli scapulae and scalenus posticus. 3. SCALENUS POSTICUS The scalenus posticus—named from its form and position—is a triangular sh( , . Origin.—The upper part of the outer surface of the second rib behind 3 rough prominence for the serratus magnus. Insertion.—The lower surface of the posterior tubercles of the two or th |3 lowest cervical vertebrae.