996 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION THE STOMACH General description.—The stomach is situated in the upper part of the abdo- minal cavity and to the left side. Above it are the liver and diaphragm, while below is the transverse colon. It is somew^hat pyriform in outline, with the small end of the figure twisted upward. Its length is about twelve inches, and its width four inches. It weighs four ounces and a half. There are tw^o orifices, two borders, and two surfaces to be noticed. The left, splenic, or cardiac end of the viscus is much expanded, and forms the great cul-de- sac or fundus. At the right or pyloric end there is another slighter expansion, called the antrum pylori or small cul-de-sac (fig. 566). The cardiac orifice, by which the oesophagus opens into the stomach, is situated about three inches from the left extremity, owing to the bulging to the left of the great cul-de-sac. The pyloric orifice, or pylorus, is situated to the extreme right, and is more anterior in position than the cardiac orifice. The pylorus is produced by a thickening of the intestinal w^alls between the Fig. 566.—Posterior Surface of the Stomach. cardiac orifice ANTRUM PYLORI duodenum and stomach. The circular muscular fibres which surround the stomachl are here thickened into a strong ring, thus forming a sphincter wdiich can be feltj from the outside. The longitudinal fibres pass over the circular fibres, and arenotj generally supposed to take part in the thickening. The mucous membrane is I pushed in by the muscular ring and also thickened. The pyloric opening will| about admit a sixpence. It is the narrowest part of the digestive canal. There I is no such special sphincter apparatus at the cardiac end of the stomach, the oesophagus passing directly into its walls, becoming wider as it does so. The two borders are situated above and below, and run between the .twoi orifices. The upper is knowm as the lesser curvature, and is about three or four j inches long ; it is concave along its whole length, except near the pylorus, w^here it j takes part in the antrum pylori (fig. 567). The lower border is called the greater curvature, and is convex except near the right extremity just before the formation of the antrum pylori, where there is a slight depression. The two surfaces lie between the two borders. They are of equal extent, and are named the anterior and posterior surfaces.