THE ASCENDING PHABYNGEAL 511 •tery externally, and the vertebral column, the rectus capitis anticus major, and lie sympathetic nerve posteriorly. In front it is crossed by the stylo-pharyngeus uscle and giosso-pharyngeal nerve. Branches of the Ascending Pharyngeal Artery The ascending pharyngeal artery gives off the following branches:—(1) Pre- srtebral; (2) pharyngeal; (3) palatine ; (4) tympanic ; (5) meningeal. (1) The prevertebral are distributed to the recti muscles, the fascia in front of e vertebral column, and to the sympathetic nerve and lymphatic glands. These Fig. 331.—Scheme of Ascending Phakyngeal Artery. The internal carotid artery is hooked aside. Meningeal Irancli passing through middle lacerated foramen Tympanic branch Meningeal branch passing through jugular foramen eningeal branch passing 'hrough anterior condyloid 'oramen Intracranial part of internal carotid Intraosseous part of internal carotid Levator palati Palatine branch Superior constrictor of pharynx Pterygo-maxillary ligament Stylo-glossus muscle Ascending palatine branch of facial artery Occipital artery eetus capitis anticus major Ascending pharyngeal artery Middle constrictor of pharynx SYMPATHETIC NERVE 'nternal carotid artery "^.xternal carotid artery Tonsillar branch Hyo-glossus muscle Facial artery Lingual artery Superior thyroid artery Common carotid artery anches anastomose with branches of the ascending cervical. (2) The pharyngeal Ipply the superior and middle constrictor muscles and the mucous membrane ling them. These vessels anastomose with branches of the superior thyroid. ) The palatine passes over the upper edge of the superior constrictor to the soft late and its muscles. This branch follows a course similar to that taken by e ascending palatine artery, and when the latter is small may take its place. generally gives off small twigs to the Eustachian tube and tonsil. (4) The mpanic accompanies the tympanic branch of the giosso-pharyngeal nerve rough the tympanic canaliculus into the tympanum, and anastomoses with the her tympanic arteries. (5) The meningeal are distributed to the membranes the brain. Some of these pass with the jugular vein through the jugular iramen into the cranium, and supply the dura mater in the posterior fossa of