LUMBAB VEBTEBB^ 15 A glance at the spine will show that the accessory tubercles are in line with the thoracic transverse processes, and the costal elements are in series with the ribs (see also fig'. 29). The fifth lumbar vertebra has several distinguishing features. The centrum is much thicker in front than behind. The inferior articular processes are widely separated to articulate with the first sacral vertebra. The transverse processes are of large size, and the spinous process is small. Fig. 16. —a Variation in the Fifth Lumbar Vertebra. (After Turner.) The pedicles of this vertebra are liable to a remarkable deviation from the conditions found in other parts of the spine. The peculiarity consists of a complete solution in the continuity of ihe arch immediately behind the superior articular processes. In such specimens the anterior part consists of the body carrying the pedicles, transverse and superior articular processes ; whilst the posterior segment is composed of the laminae, spine, and mferior articular processes. The posterior segment of the ring of this vertebra may even consist of two pieces. There is reason to believe that this abnormality of the fifth lumbar vertebra occurs in five per cent, of all subjects examined. Sir William Turner, in his report on the human skeletons in the ' Challenger ' Eeports, found seven examples among thirty skeletons examined. The skeletons in which this occurred were : a Mala,y, an Andamanese, a Chinese, two Bushmen, an Esquimaux, and a Negro. Turner has also seen it in the skeleton of a Sandwich Islander. THE SACRAL AND COCCYGEAL VERTEBRA In the adult skeleton, the five vertebrae succeeding the lumbar series are firmly ankylosed to form a single bone, the sacrum : the com^Donents of the sacrum are termed sacral vertebrse. Beyond the fifth sacral, four, and occasionally five, other rudimentary vertebrae to w^hich the adjective coccygeal is applied, are ankylosed in adult life, to form a single piece, the coccyx. In advanced life the coccyx unites with the sacrum. THE SACRUM is a large triangular-shaped bone, firmly wedged between the innominate bones. It forms the posterior boundary of the true pelvic cavity. The sacrum is curved upon itself with the concavity looking forw^ards. The upper end of the curve forms, with the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra, an anterior projection known as the promontory. The middle portion of the anterior face of the sacrum exhibits four transverse ridges corresponding to the intervertebral spaces. The intervening portions are the bodies of the vertebra. The upper two sacral vertebrae are almost equal in size to those of the lumbar series, but the three lower rapidly diminish in size from above downwards. The ridges terminate laterally