821 HYPOGLOSSAL NEBVE An accessory nucleus is also described which is placed ventro-laterally to the above described (or chief) nucleus. This accessory nucleus represents a portion of the head of the anterior horn. Fibres pass from the inner side of the hypoglossal nucleus, and cross in the raphe from where they ascend brainwards to establish the cortical origin of the nerve. The filaments unite to form two fasciculi, each of which pierces the dura mater separately at a point opposite to the anterior condyloid foramen. As these fasciculi traverse the foramen, they unite to form a single trunk, which is placed at first on the inner side of the pneumogastric, but then winds spirally round the ganglion of the trunk of the latter nerve, passing behind, external to, and finally in front of the ganglion. In this situation the hypoglossal receives two or three commu- nicating branches from the first and second cervical nerves, and some minute twigs from the vagus and sympathetic. The hypoglossal then runs forwards and inwards, describing a curve, the concavity of which looks downwards and outwards. At the commencement of this part of its course it hooks round the occipital artery, passing immediately below that vessel. It then crosses in front of the internal and external carotid arteries, the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and the hyo- glossus muscle, and, passing under cover of the mylo-hyoid, breaks up into its terminal branches. As it lies on the middle constrictor the great cornu of the hyoid bone and the lingual artery are below it and the tendon of the digastric muscle is above it. As it passes on to the hyo-glossus it is crossed on its superficial surface by the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles. It is also overlapped in this situation by the submaxillary gland. Branches.—The meningeal branch (Luschka) is given off by the hypoglossal as it is traversing the anterior condyloid foramen, and takes a recurrent course into the cranial cavity, where it is distributed to the dura mater. It is probably derived from the communicating branches of the pneumogastric or from the first cervical nerve. The remaining branches of the hypoglossal may be classified into branches of the cervical plexus which are simply adherent for the time being to the cranial nerve, and true hypoglossal branches; the latter are exclusively distributed to the muscles of the tongue. The BRANCHES DERIVED FROM THE CERVICAL PLEXUS are the descendens hypoglossi, and the muscular twigs to the thyro-hyoid and genio-hyoid muscles. The descendens hypoglossi parts company with the hypoglossal at the point where the latter hooks round the occipital artery. It runs downwards and slightly inwards on the sheath of the great vessels (occasionally within the sheath), and is joined at a variable level by the communicantes hypoglossi from the second and third cervical nerves, forming a loop, the ansa hypoglossi. The ansa hypoglossi may be placed at any level from a point immediately below the occipital artery to about an inch and j a half above the sternum. A twig to the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid arises from the descendens hypoglossi in the upper part of its course. The nerves which supply the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and posterior belly of the omo-hyoid are given off by the ansa hypoglossi. Twigs from the first two nerves pass in the muscles behind the manubrium sterni and in rare cases communicate with the phrenic within the thorax. The nerve to the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid runs in a loop of the cervical fascia below the central tendon of the muscle. The nerve to the thyro-hyoid is given off near the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and runs obliquely downwards and inwards to reach the muscle. I The nerve to the genio-hyoid arises under cover of the m^ylo-hyoid muscle. I The TRUE HYPOGLOSSAL BRANCHES supply the stylo-hyoid, hyo-glossus, genio- I' hyo-glossus, and the intrinsic muscular fibres of the tongue. ! The nerve to the stylo-hyoid is given off near the outer border of the hyo- I glossus. It pierces the stylo-glossus, and its fibres pursue a more or less recurrent course within the muscle.