THE ABTEBIES 546 the spinal canal with spinal branches of the vertebral artery; and (c) phrenic, to the phrenic nerve. Two veins accompany the ascending cervical artery, and end in the innominate vein. (3) The oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid artery supply the oeso- phagus, and anastomose with the other arteries supplying that tube. (4) The tracheal branches ramify on the trachea, where they anastomose with the tracheal branches of the superior thyroid and bronchial arteries. (5) The inferior laryngeal branch passes along the trachea to the back of the cricoid cartilage in company with the recurrent laryngeal nerve. It enters the larynx beneath the inferior constrictor. Its further distribution in that organ is described under Laeynx. | THE SUPEASCAPULAE AETEEY | The suprascapular, or transversalis humeri, passes more or less transversely i outwards across the root of the neck, lying first beneath the sterno-mastoid, and i then in the subclavian triangle behind the clavicle and subclavius muscle. At the external angle of this space it is joined by the suprascapular nerve, sinks beneath the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and passes over the ligament bridging j the scapular notch, the nerve passing through the notch (fig. 343). It then ramifies • in the supraspinous fossa of the scapula, and, winding downwards round the base' of the spine over the neck of the scapula, enters the infraspinous fossa, and ter- minates by anastomosing with the dorsal scapular and posterior scapular arteries.: As it lies under cover of the sterno-mastoid muscle, it crosses the phrenic nerve and | the scalenus anticus ; and as it courses through the subclavian triangle, it is sepa-1 rated by the cervical fascia which descends from the omo-hyoid to the first rib, from! the subclavian artery and brachial plexus of nerves. If this artery is seen in tying, the subclavian it should not be injured, as it is one of the chief vessels by which | the collateral circulation is carried on after ligature of the subclavian in the third \ part of its course. At the outer part of the subclavian triangle it is covered by the | trapezius, and after passing over the scapular ligament it pierces the supraspinous fascia and passes beneath the supra-spinatus muscle, and ramifies between it and the bone. In the infraspinous fossa it lies between the infra-spinatus and the bone, The artery is accompanied by two veins. The branches of the suprascapular are as follow :—(1) The inferior sterno- mastoid, given off to that muscle as the vessel crosses behind it; (2) the subclavian, \ to the subclavius muscle ; (3) the nutrient, to the clavicle ; (4) the suprasternal, which passes over the sternal end of the clavicle to the skin of the upper part o\ the chest; (5) the acromial, to the arterial rete or plexus on the acromial pro- cess, to reach which it pierces the trapezius ; (6) the articular, to the acromio- clavicular joint and shoulder joint; (7) the subscapular, given off as the arterjj is passing over the suprascapular ligament, descends to the subscapular fossa between the subscapularis and the bone, and anastomoses with the infrascapulai branch of the dorsal scapular artery, and with the subscapular and posterioi scapular arteries; (8) the supraspinous branches, which ramify in the supra-1 spinous fossa, and supply the supra-spinatus muscle and the periosteum and th(| nutrient artery to the bone ; (9) the infraspinous branches, which ramify in i\ similar way in the infraspinous fossa, giving off like twigs to the infra-spinatufi muscle, the periosteum, and the bone. THE TEANSVEESE CEEVICAL AETEEY | The transverse cervical or transversalis colli artery—somewhat larger thai j the suprascapular artery—runs like the latter vessel transversely outwards acros