I MIDDLE CEBEBBAL—CIBCLE OF WILLIS 635 teral set, passes through a separate hole in the outer part of the anterior perforated pace, runs upwards between the lenticular nucleus (which it supplies) and the xternal capsule, perforates the internal capsule, and terminates in the caudate lucleus. It has been so frequently found ruptured, that it is called by Charcot the artery of cerebral haemorrhage.' {h) The hemispheral or cortical branches come off from the middle cerebral pposite the insula. They are four in number :—(i) The inferior, or orbito-frontal, |o the inferior frontal convolutions, (ii) The ascending frontal, to the lower part f the ascending frontal convolution, the upper part being supplied by the margino- contal, a branch of the anterior cerebral, (iii) The parietal, to the whole of the scending parietal and the adjacent part of the inferior parietal convolution. |Lv) The parieto-temporal, to the convolutions around the posterior limb of the ssure of Sylvius—viz. the supra-marginal, the angular, and the posterior part of lie inferior parietal above, and the first and the greater part of the second and lird temporal below. Fig. 340.—The Arteries of the Brain. (From a preparation in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.) nterior cerebral artery Middle cerebral artery nlernal carotid artery \postero-median perforating )sterior cerebral artery iiuperior rebellar artery ilerior inferior rebellar artery 'ertebral arterii sterior inferior "febellar artery Anterior com- municating artery Antero-lateral perforating ^.nterior choroid Posterior communicating artery "Posterior choroid basilar artery 7rus cerebelli, cut Anterior sjnnal artery The Ciecle of Willis The anastomosis of the branches of the internal carotid and vertebral arteries the base of the brain is known as the circle of Wilhs (fig. 340). This so- jiled circle, which has really the form of a heptagon, is formed, in front, by the literior communicating artery uniting the anterior cerebral arteries of opposite sides; iterally, by the trunk of the internal carotid and the posterior communicating jteries stretching between it and the posterior cerebral; behind, by the two posterior 'rebrals diverging from the bifurcation of the basilar artery (page 543). This free iiastomosis between the two internal carotid and the two vertebral arteries serves