THE SKELETON 2 other hand, there are numerous instances in the skull, of hones the ossification of which hegins in, and is perfected hy, the intermemhranous method. Ossification in a few instances commences in membrane, hut later invades tracts of cartilage ; occasionally the process begins in perichondrium and remains restricted to it, never invading the underlying cartilage, which gradually disappears as the result of continued pressure exerted upon it by the growing bone. The vomer and nasal bones are the best examples of this mode of development. A Classified List of the Bones to show theie Mode of Development 1. All the limb-bones and those of the vertebral column are pre-formed in carti- lage and perfected in membrane, with the exception of the clavicles. These begin in membrane, proceed in cartilage, and are finally perfected in membrane. 2. The Skull. Parietals. Frontal. Squamosals. Maxillae. Malar s. Palates. Nasals. Membeane-Bones Interparietal portion of occipital. Wormian bones and the epipterics. Tympanies. Mandible (except part near the symphysis). Lachrymals. Vomer. Cartilage Bones Sphenoid. Petrosals. Mallei. Stapes. Hyoid. Inferior turbinals. Occipital (except interparietal portion) Ethmoid. Incudes. Styloid processes. Symphysial portion of the mandible. Internal pterygoid plate. Many of the skull bones are composite, that is, they consist of two or more elements which remain separate in other vertebrates. To this group belong :— The Occipital. Maxillae. Frontal. Temporals. Hyoid. Malars. Ethmoid. Sphenoid. Mandible. The details of the development and ossification of each bone are added to the description. The limb-bones differ in several important particulars from those of the skull. Some of the long bones have many centres of ossification, but the centres are of very different morphological value to those of the skull. Speaking generally, it is only the primary nuclei that have any especial value for the morphologist. The primary nucleus of a long bone appears before birth. In only three instances does a secondary centre appear before birth ; e.g. the condyles of the femur, the head of the tibia, and occasionally in the head of the humerus. Many primary ossific nuclei appear after birth; for example, those for the carpal bones, the cuneiform and scaphoid bones of the foot, the coracoid, and the third, fourth and fifth pieces of the sternum. When a bone ossifies from one nucleus only, this nucleus may appear before or after birth. Examples : the astragalus at the seventh month of embryonic life, and the trapezoid at the eighth year. When a bone possesses one or more