868 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM cords and often by a band of ganglionic substance. It gives off branches to the vertebral artery and the inferior cardiac nerve. The branches to the vertebral artery are of considerable size and accompany the vessel into the arterio-vertebral foramina in the transverse processes. The plexus thus formed is continued on the vertebral and basilar to the cerebral arteries. The inferior cardiac nerve communicates with the middle cardiac and recurrent laryngeal, and passes along the side of the trachea to join the deep cardiac plexus. It occasionally arises from the first dorsal ganglion. THOEACIC POETION OF THE GANGLIATED CORD The thoracic portion of the gangliated cord is represented by a chain of twelve pairs of ganglia. In a few cases, on account of the coalescence of some of the members of the series, the number may be reduced to eleven or ten pairs. The upper ten ganglia lie upon the heads of the corresponding ribs, immediately under cover of the pleura. The lower two are placed further forwards, and lie on the sides of the bodies of the eleventh and twelfth thoracic vertebrae between the bones and the diaphragm. The cord is continuous above with the cervical part of the cord, the first thoracic ganglion being sometimes united across the neck of the first rib with the inferior cervical ganglion. Below, the cord enters the abdominal cavity by passing through the crus of the diaphragm to become continuous with the lumbar part of the cord. The first thoracic ganglion (ganglion stellatum) is larger than the others, and is of an irregular form. The remainder of the series are triangular in outline, two of the angles being continued into the intergangiionic part of the cord, and the other into the rami communicantes. On some of the lower ganglia a fourth angle makes its appearance, and is continued into one of the roots of the splanchnic nerves. Branches.—The branches are classified into external and internal. The external branches are the rami communicantes. A grey and a white ramus communicans connects each ganglion with the corresponding thoracic nerve. The internal branches of the upper four ganglia are distributed chiefly to the aorta and lungs. The internal branches of the lower eight ganglia form three splanchnic nerves which are distributed to the abdominal viscera. Internal branches—Upper series.—From the upper four or five ganglia fine twigs arise which are distributed to the thoracic aorta, mediastinum, and lungs. Internal branches—Lower series.—These branches, although arising in the , thorax, are destined for the abdominal viscera. The branches from the fifth to the j ninth ganglia unite to form the great splanchnic nerve; the lesser splanchnic nerve arises by two roots from the tenth and eleventh ganglia, while the internal branch of the twelfth ganglion forms the smallest splanchnic nerve. GREAT SPLANCHNIC NEEVE.—The five roots of this nerve run downwards and inwards between the pleura and the bodies of the thoracic vertebrae, and unite within the posterior mediastinum to form a trunk of considerable size. The nerve thus formed pierces the crus of the diaphragm, and enters the semilunar ganglion of its own side. The great splanchnic nerve is whitish in colour, owing to a number of meduUated fibres entering into its composition. Occasionally a small ganglion (splanchnic ganglion) is developed upon it in the mediastinum. This ganglion is constant on the right side. (Cunningham.) The LESSER SPLANCHNIC NERVE runs a similar course to the great splanchnic, but at a lower level. It pierces the crus of the diaphragm, or passes through the internal arcuate ligament, and enters the solar and renal plexuses. The SMALLEST SPLANCHNIC NERVE passes through the internal arcuate ligament and enters the renal plexus.