SECTION II. THE AETICULATIONS By henry morris, M.A., M.B.Lond., F.R.C.S.Eng. SURGEON TO AND LECTURER ON SURGERY, FORMERLY LECTURER ON ANATOMY AT THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL ; LATE EXAMINER IN ANATOMY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF DURHAM ; FOR THE CONJOINT BOARD OP THE ROYAL COLLEGES OF PHYSICIANS AND SURGEONS ; AND FOR THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS. THE section devoted to the Articulations or Joints deals with the union of the various and dissimilar parts of the human skeleton. The following structures enter into the formation of joints. Bones constitute the basis of most joints. The articular ends are expanded, and are composed of cancellous tissue, surrounded by a dense and strong shell of compact tissue. This shell has no Haversian canals (the vessels of the cancellous tissue turn back and do not perforate it), or large lacunae, and no canaliculi, and are thus well adapted to bear pressure. The long bones articulate by their ends, the flat by their edges, and the short at various parts on their surfaces. The cartilage which covers the articular ends of the bones is called articular, and is of the hyaline variety. It is firmly implanted on the bone by one surface, while the other is smooth, polished, and free, thus reducing friction to a minimum, while its slight elasticity tends to break jars. It ends abruptly at the edge of the articulation, and is thickest over the areas of greatest pressure. Another form of cartilage, the white fibrous, is also found in joints :— (i) As interarticular cartilage in diarthrodial joints —viz., the knee, temporo- mandibular, sterno-clavicular, radio-carpal, and occasionally in the acromio- clavicular. It is interposed between the ends of the bones, partially or completely dividing the synovial cavity into two. It serves to adjust dissimilar bony surfaces, adding to the security of, while it increases the extent of motion at, the joint, and also acts as a buffer to break shocks. (ii) As circumferential or marginal fibro-cartilages, they serve to deepen the sockets for the reception of the heads of bones—e.g. the glenoid and cotyloid; ligaments of the shoulder and knee. Another form of marginal plate is seen in' the glenoid ligaments of the fingers and toes, which deepen the articulations of the phalanges and adds to their security. (iii) As connecting fibro-cartilage. The more pliant and elastic is the more cellular form, and is found in the intervertebral discs ; while the less yielding andi more fibrous form is seen in the sacro-iliac and pubic articulations, where there is little or no movement. The ligaments which bind the bones together are strong bands of white fibrous tissue, forming a more or less perfect capsule, round the articulation. They are pliant but inextensile, varying in shape, strength, and thickness according to the