I THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION 1006 is sacculated, and the sacculation is produced by the gut having to adapt its lengtl to three shorter muscular bands which run the course of the intestine. Thes bands are really the longitudinal fibres of the muscular Avail, which are chief! collected at three parts (fig. 575). One band is sitwa^ted jjosteriorly on the attachet border, another runs anteriorly, and the third is situated on the inner side of th ascending and descending colon, and on the lower border of the transverse coIoe All these bands start at the vermiform appendix, and are lost on the rectum Along the whole length of the large intestine, except the loAver part of the rectum are certain small appendages (ajjj^endiccs einploiccB), seen mostly along the line o the inner muscular band. They are pouches of peritoneum containing fat. The csecum, or caput coli.—The caecum is a cul-cle-sac forming the first part c the large intestine. It is defined as that part of the colon which is situated beloT the entrance of the ileum. Its breadth is about three inches, and its length aboii two and a half inches. It lies in the right iliac fossa, and is usually situated upon the psoas muscle and so placed that its apex or lowest point is just projecting beyond the inner horde j of that muscle (figs. 565, 577). It is entirely enveloped in peritoneum, and i free in the abdominal cavity. The apex of the caecum usually corresponds with point a little to the inner side of the middle of Poupart's ligament. Less frequentlj Fig. 575.—The Four Types of C^cum. (Treves.) ABC D the caecum will be found to be in relation with the iliacus muscle only ; or the buh; of the caput will lie upon that muscle, while the apex rests upon the psoas. In fi number of cases the caecum is entirely clear of both psoas and iliacus muscles, ano hangs over the pelvic brim, or is lodged entirely within the pelvic cavity. Som( part of the caecum may pass even to the left of the median line of the body. This part of the colon is liable to considerable variation. , Its variations may be described under/o2ir %jjes :— 1. The foetal type is conical in shape, the appendix arising from the apex This process is a continuation of the long axis of the colon. The three musculai bands w^hich meet at the appendix are nearly at equal distances apart (fig. 575, a). 2. The second form is more quadrilateral in shape than the last; the thret bands retain their relative positions; the appendix appears betAveen two bulging sacculi, instead of at the summit of a cone (fig. 575, b). 3. In the third type, that part of the caput coli that lies to the right side of thf j anterior band groAvs out of proportion to that part to the left of the band. Th( anterior Avail becomes more deA-eloped than the posterior, so that the apex is turnet so much to the left and posteriorly, that it nearly meets the ileo-caecal junction J A false apex is formed by the highly developed part to the right of the anterioi band. This is the usual caecum found (fig. 575, c). 4. In the fourth type, the deA^elopment of the part to the right of the anterioi