346 THE MUSCLES large special impression upon the ulna ; the highest fibres being nearly horizontal, and the lowest approaching more nearly to a vertical direction. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through the seventh and eighth cervical nerves) by a long branch from the musculo-spiral nerve, which, after passing through the inner head of the triceps muscle, enters the deep aspect of the anconeus close to its upper border. Action.—To extend the elbow, in association with the triceps, of which some authors consider it to form a fourth head. Relations.—Superficially, the deep fascia of the forearm ; deeply, the supinator brevis, the posterior interosseous recurrent artery which runs through the deeper fibres of the muscle, the elbow and upper radio-ulnar joints. Deep Layer j The deep layer consists of five muscles : the supinator radii brevis; extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis ; extensor brevis pollicis ; extensor longus pollicis ; and the extensor indicis. Four of these arise from the bones of the forearm, and one only from the humerus also. 1. SUPINATOR RADII BREVIS The supinator radii brevis—named from its action and size in comparison with the brachio-radialis (=supinator longus)—is a rhomboidal sheet of muscular fibre curved upon itself so as to form the greater part of a cylinder which wraps round the upper third of the radius. Origin.—(1) Lower and back part of external condyle ; (2) the external lateral ligament of the elbow joint; (3) the orbicular ligament; (4) the triangulai depression below the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna, especially along its posterioi margin, Avhich forms the upper part of the external border of the ulna. ' Insertion.—(1) The back of the neck of the radius ; (2) the anterior and outei surfaces of the radius above and at the upper border of the oblique line. Structure.—Its origin is partly fleshy and partly by a strong aponeurosis whicti covers the upper half of the muscle and gives attachment to some of the muscles ii the superficial sheet. The line of origin runs downw^ards and somewhat inwardsi from the external condyle to the outer border of the ulna, while that of insertior runs downwards and outwards from the tubercle of the radius to the impressior for the pronator radii teres. Between these lines the fleshy fibres run in parallel curves wrapping round th( upper third of the radius. The muscle is divided into a small superficial and men extensive deep plane by the posterior interosseous nerve which perforates it on it; way to supply the muscles at the back of the forearm. The line of insertion ii broken at the tubercle of the radius by a notch in which lies the bursa in fron of the attachment of the biceps tendon. Nerve-supply.—From the posterior cord of the brachial plexus (through th< sixth cervical nerve) by branches derived from the posterior interosseous divisioij of the musculo-spiral nerve, which are given off from this nerve as it perforates th^ muscle. Action.—To supinate the radius upon the ulna. By its contraction the muscL unwraps itself from the radius ; the tubercle of the radius is drawn forwards, am the outer border of the bone backwards ; and if the radius at the commencemen of action be in the position of complete pronation, it will be caused by this muscl to revolve about the axis which passes through the centre of its head and th middle of the lower extremity of the ulna through nearly 180°. iry