THE COMMON CABOTID 509 The cricoid cartilage is as a rule taken as tlie centre of the incision in the opera- tion for ligature of the common carotid artery. The incision is made in the line of the vessel parallel to the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid muscle. The omo-hyoid forms one of the chief rallying points in the course of the operation for ligature of Ithe artery above that muscle, the usual situation. The artery is found beating at the jangle formed by the omo-hyoid with the sterno-mastoid. ! Branches.—(1) External and (2) internal carotid arteries. The common carotid gives off no lateral branches, and consequently does not diminish in size as it runs up the neck. It is often a little swollen just below its bifurcation. Variations of the Common Carotid Arteries The variations in the origin of the common carotid have been already mentioned iiiider Variations of the Chief Branches of the Aortic Arch (page 50]). The following variations are of surgical interest:— ;, (A) The artery may cross obliquely the lower part of the trachea above the level of the jsternimi. This may occur on the right side : (a) when the innominate is situated abnormally Ito the left of the middle line ; (6) when the right common carotid arises as the second branch 'af the aortic arch; and (c) when the right and left common carotids arise as a common stem from the aorta. On the left side : when the left common carotid arises from the innominate. (B) The right common carotid may, when arising from the aorta, run behind the zachea and oesophagus to the right side of the neck. (C) The commencement of the right common carotid may be above or below the jisual spot, according as the innominate bifurcates higher or lower than usual. A low pifurcation of the innominate is somewhat the more common abnormality. j (D) The common carotid may run in a very tortuous manner, forming one or more iistinct loops in its course up the neck. (E) The artery may bifurcate higher or lower than normal. A high bifurcation is the nore common. The bifurcation may occur as high as the hyoid bone, or even styloid brocess; or as low as the cricoid cartilage, or within an inch and a half of its origin. I (F) The artery may not bifurcate, but give oft' the branches usually derived from the 3xternal division as it ascends in the neck. (G) The common carotid may be absent, the external and internal carotids arising liirectly from the aorta. I (H) It may give off one or more of the branches usually derived from the external parotid. J (I) It may give off a thyroidea ima. • (J) The pneumogastric nerve may run in front of the artery instead of behind it. The collateral circulation (fig. 330), after ligature of the common carotid, is carried on ■hiefiy by the anastomosis of the internal carotid with the internal carotid of the opposite ide through the circle of Willis ; by the vertebral with the opposite vertebral; by the inferior hyroid with the superior thyroid; by the deep cervical branch of the superior intercostal vith the princeps cervicis of the occipital; by the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, occipital Lnd temporal, with the corresponding arteries of the opposite side, and by the ophthalmic Ivith the angular. , THE EXTEKNAL CAROTID ARTERY j The external carotid artery, the smaller of the two branches into which the ;ommon carotid divides at the upper border of the.thyroid cartilage, is distributed 0 the anterior part of the neck, the face, and the side of the head both soft parts and )ones, the integuments externally, and dura mater internally. It is development- Ily derived from the third aortic arch, and supplies the oral and post-oral visceral j)ranches. It is at first situated internal to the internal carotid ; but as it ascends m the neck it forms a gentle curve, with its convexity forwards, and, running shghtly lackwards as well as upwards, terminates opposite the neck of the jaw just below he condyle, by dividing into the internal maxillary and temporal arteries. It here ies superficial to the internal carotid, from which it is separated by a portion of he parotid gland. At its origin it is overlapped by the anterior margin of the sterno-mastoid, and is covered by the superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia.