THE NOSE 927 The nose is enveloped in skin, lined by a mucous membrane, and supplied with vessels and nerves, and its cartilages are acted upon by small muscles. The cartilages.—The principal cartilages are five in number : a pair above, the superior lateral; a pair below, the inferior lateral; and the cartilage of the septum, the persistent unossified remnant of the facial segment of the chondro-cranium (page 97). With these must be included a group of small irregular cartilages known as sesamoid and accessory quadrate. These cartilages, ensheathed in perichondrium, are for the most part loosely held together by tough intervening fibrous tissue, and this in turn becomes con- tinuous with the periosteum of the surrounding bones. The upper lateral cartilages are nearly flat and somewhat triangular in shape, each presenting an outer and an inner surface. Their anterior margins are continuous above with the rounded borders of a shallow groove which furrows the cartilage of the septum; but below for about two- thirds of their extent, though their edges are closely applied to the borders of the Fig. 513.—Antekior View of the Nose, showing its Cartilages, etc. ORIFICE OF LACHRYMAL CANAL GROOVE ON ANTERIOR BORDER OF SEPTAL CARTILAGE ACCESSORY QUADRATE CARTILAGES SESAMOID CARTILAGES CELLULAR TISSUE OF ALA f^ASAL BONE NASAL PROCESS OF THE MAXILLA UPPER LATERAL CARTILAGE OUTER PLATE OF LOWER LATERAL CARTILAGE groove, there is on each side a narrow cleft of separation which opens out below into an angular notch. Their curved posterior margins are firmly attached superficially by somewhat jagged edges to the nasal bones ; but deeply, and especially near the septum, they underlie these bones for a considerable distance. The rest of the border is smooth, free, and loosely connected by intervening fibrous tissue to the nasal process of the maxilla. Their inferior borders are connected with the lower lateral cartilages ; one or more narrow plates of cartilage occasionally intervene and fill the fibrous interval. On account of their continuity with the septal cartilage, the upper lateral cartilages should be regarded as its wings or lateral expansions. (Henle.) The lower lateral cartilages are thin, phant, and curved, and so folded back- I wards that each forms an inner and outer plate. ! The inner plates are loosely attached to one another, where they meet below j the septum to form the tip of the nose and fore part of the columna. The outer plates are oval, and curve backwards above the masses of dense cellular tissue which form the alse. They maintain the contour of the nostrils,