18 THE SKELETON vertebral disc with the coccyx. In advanced life the coccyx and sacrum ankylose at this spot. The lateral surface presents in the upper two-thirds a broad irregular tract called the auricular process, which is rough and, in the recent state, covered with fibro-cartilage for union with the ilium. The margins are rough for ligaments. Below the auricular surface the lateral borders are sharp and give attachment to the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic ligaments. Near the extremity it presents a notch which is converted into a foramen by articulation with the coccyx. Through the space thus enclosed the anterior branch of the fifth sacral nerve issues. Some- times the foramen is represented by a notch even when the sacrum and coccyx are articulated. The middle of the sacrum is occupied by a continuation of the spinal canal. It is triangular in form at the base, and flattened towards the apex. It lodges the terminal branches of the cauda equina, the filum terminale, and the lower extremity of the dura mater. The sacrum exhibits sexual differences. In the female it is usually wider, much less curved, and is directed more obliquely backwards, than in the male. Muscles.—The following muscles are attached to the sacrum :—Pyriformis, coccygeus, iliacus, latissimus dorsi, multifidus spinse, erector spinse, gluteus maximus ; and the occasional muscles, namely, curvator coccygis, extensor coccygis, and the agitator caud?e. Ligaments.—Anterior and posterior common ligaments of the spine ; anterior and posterior sacro-coccygeal; greater and lesser sacro-sciatic, anterior and posterior sacro-iliac, two capsular, ligamenta subflava, and the supraspinous. THE COCCYX The coccyx in the adult is made up of four and occasionally five vestigial vertebrae ankylosed to one another. Earely the number of segments is reduced to three. The first two segments contain, in addition to the body of a vertebra, traces of articular and transverse processes: the rest are mere nodules of bone, represent- ing centra. The anterior surface gives attachment to the anterior sacro-coccygeal ligament ; and near its tip to the levator ani; it is in relation with the lower end of the rectum. The posterior surface is convex, and along its margin affords attachment to the gluteus maximus muscle. The lateral borders are thin : they receive parts of the greater sacro-sciatic ligaments and of the coccygeals muscle. The base has an oval facet for the fifth sacral vertebra, and presents the two long coccygeal cornua for the posterior sacro- coccygeal Hgament. The junction of the coccyx and sacrum completes the foramen of exit for the fifth sacral nerve. In many skeletons the foramen is incomplete externally. The apex is rounded and gives attachment to the sphincter ani, and in front to the levator ani muscles. THE SPINAL COLUMN IN GENERAL When the various vertebra3 are in their relative positions, the whole is termed the spinal column. It occupies the median line of the posterior aspect of the trunk. Superiorly it supports the head; laterally it gives attachment to ribs; these in their turn receive the weight of the upper hmbs. Inferiorly, the sacrum affords attachment to the innominate bones, by which the weight of the trunk is trans- mitted to the lower Hmbs. The spinal column is the axis of the skeleton. It varies in length in different persons, but on an average it measures, from the