478 THE MUSCLES THE SUPEA-HYOID MUSCLES These consist of four muscles arranged in three layers : the first containing the digastric and stjlo-hyoid, the second the mylo-hyoid, and the third the genio- hyoid. 1. DIGASTRIC The digastric—named from its two bellies (yao-rrjp the belly)—is composed o two flattened and somewhat spindle-shaped bellies united by a tendon. Origin.—(1) Of ijosterior belly, the digastric fossa of the temporal bone ; (2) o anterior belly, the low^er border of the body of the mandible just internal to thi symphysis. Insertion.—By its central tendon, which is attached to the outer part of thi lower border of the body of the hyoid bone and the adjacent part of the grea cornu. Structure.—The 2^osterio7' belly at its origin consists of short tendinous fibres which soon form a laterally compressed muscle. This passes downwards, forward and inwards, and converges upon a laterally flattened rounded tendon about hal an inch above the tip of the great cornu of the hyoid bone. The anterior belly arises by short tendinous fibres, and forms a muscle flattenec from before backwards and from above downwards, Avhich is shorter and smalle than the posterior belly. Its fibres converge as they pass backwards and slightl; downwards and outwards, to end in the flattened tendon a quarter of an incl above the junction of the body and great cornu of the hyoid bone. The centra tendon is bound down to its insertion upon the hyoid bone, chiefly by a fibrou expansion given off from its lower border, and to a very small degree also by th^ oblique arch over it formed by the division of the stylo-hyoid muscle. Often ; part of this aponeurosis passes inwards across the middle line and, uniting mth it fellow, forms a membranous covering to the deeper structures, and unites th inner borders of the two anterior bellies. Nerve-supply.—The posterior belly, which is really a distinct muscle, belonging to a deeper stratum of the muscular planes, receives a special branch from th facial nerve which enters the upper part of its deep surface. Perhaps this may h due to the fact that this part of the muscle assists in swallowing; for the facia nerve, by means of the Vidian and the relations which through the lesser superfieia petrosal nerve it has with the otic ganglion, may be considered to take part in thi function, as well as in the expression of emotions. The anterior belly receives at the outer part of its deep surface the termina filaments of the mylo-hyoid twig from the inferior dental branch of the inferio maxillary. Action.—(1) The posterior belly draws upwards and backwards the hyoid bone as in the elevation of the larynx in the second part of deglutition ; (2) the anterio belly, acting from above, draws upwards and forwards the hyoid bone ; and, actin; in the opposite direction, (3) it assists in the depression of the lower jaw and ii opening the mouth. Although a comparatively weak muscle, it acts with con siderable power in this movement, for it is inserted at the end of the lever of th^ second order formed by the mandible, while the resistance which it has to overcome is exerted by muscles acting much nearer to the fulcrum. Moreover, its directioi downwards and backwards is at a considerable angle with the line of the lever, viz that which joins the prominence of the chin to a point a little above the inferio dental foramen. (4) If the mandible be fixed and both bellies act, the hyoid boni will be drawn directly upwards. By this action the muscle is of great importance