966 THE OBGANS OF CIRCULATION I cavse, and of the heart through the coronary sinus, and transmits it into the righi ventricle. The right ventricle in turn transmits the venous blood to the lungi! through the pulmonary artery. From the lungs it is returned arterialised to thd left auricle of the heart by the pulmonary veins. From the auricle it passes int( the corresponding ventricle, and thence through the aorta and its branches to al parts of the body, including the heart itself. The right auricle.—The right auricle is lined by a smooth and delicat( membrane, the endocardium, which is continuous with the inner coats of th( blood-vessels. It presents a large quadrangular cavity, the sinus venosus or atrium and one much smaller within the auricular appendix. The auricle forms th( right and fore part of the base of the heart. Openings.—Of the three chief openings, that of the superior cava appears a Fig. 548.— Teansveese Section passing theough the Aueicles of the Heaet, SHOWING THE AUEICULO-VENTEICULAE OeIFICES AND THE SeMILUNAE VaLVES OF THE PULMONAEY AeTEEY AND AOETA. SeEN FEOM ABOVE. (The portions of the auricles removed are seen in fig. 552.) ANTERIOR SEGMENT OF PULMONARY SEMILUNAR VALVE i Kight aurieulo-ventricular orifice and tricuspid valve Left auriculo-ventrieular orifice and mitral valve CHORD/E TENDINE/E POSTERIOR SEGMENT OF AORTIC SEMILUNAR VALVE Vena cava the upper and back part of the cavity; whilst at the lower and back part is the opening of the inferior cava. The right auriculo-ventrieular opening, which leads into the ventricle, is placed below and in front; whilst above and '{n front the cavity is prolonged into the auricular appendix. The orifice of the coronary sinus lies between the lower caval and auriculo- ventrieular openings. Besides these there are about a score of small scattered orifices, known as the foramina Thebesii. The superior caval opening is valveless, and is directed downwards and forwards towards the auriculo-ventrieular opening. The inferior caval opening is somewhat larger, and is directed upwards and inwards. It is usually guarded by a semilunar fold, the Eustachian valve, which is much larger in foetal life, and which then serves to direct the current of blood through a foramen in the wall dividing the two auricles. It is attached by its