1058 THE URINABY OBGANS and a longitudinal mesial ridge, the uvula of Lieutaud, near the urethral orifict It is smaller and less distinct in the female. The internal urinary meatus usual-' lies at the most dependent part of the bladder, but in morbid conditions of tl prostate the borders of the aperture may be considerably elevated above the adjacei vesical zone. The female bladder (hg. GIO) presents no peculiarities of importance, except th; its frontal diameter is usually increased at the expense of the sagittal diameter, part in consequence of the greater width of the pelvis, and partly owing to the presenc of the vagina and uterus, which encroach upon the space in the middle lin Lateral asymmetry is very common. Furthermore, the symphysis being of le; depth than in the male, the urinary orifice lies nearer its lower border. In the infant the bladder is said to be an abdominal organ, but this is not strict accurate. The relatively small pelvic cavity at this period of life is occupied main by the rectum, and there is little room for the bladder, which hence rises into tl abdomen even in moderate degrees of distension ; but, as pointed out by Symingto if a line be drawn from the sacral promontory to the top of the symphysis, fully o] half of the bladder will be found to lie below it, and hence within the pelvis. Tl internal meatus, however, is behind the upper margin of the symphysis, and tl whole organ is hence above the horizontal level of the pubic crests. This relati( gradually changes from the period at which independent locomotion begins, till I the age of six, when the pelvic wall has grown up around the viscus, the positi( does not differ materially from that in the adult. It should also be noted th the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum extends in infancy nearly as low as the ba of the prostate. Vessels.—The arteries of the bladder are derived from the internal iliac a] internal pudic, and in the female some twigs are also given off by the uteri: arteries. The veins terminate in the internal iliac trunk. They form plexus which are especially large about the parts adjacent to the prostate, and communica in the male with the dorsal vein of the penis. Lymphatics are few, and are foui mostly in the neighbourhood of the internal meatus. They accompany the vei and terminate in the pelvic glands. Nerves.—The nerves are derived, partly from the sympathetic system throuf the hypogastric plexuses, partly from the cerebro-spinal system through the saci plexus. The former supply the mucosa, the latter the muscularis. i TEE MALE EEPEODUCTIVE CWiGANS ■ I The reproductive organs of the male consist of (1) two testicles or semirB glands, with their excretory tubes ; (2) a musculo-glandular organ, the prostap which provides a material for the dilution of the semen, and by its sphincte:' contraction aids in the ejaculation of the spermatic fluid, and at the same tii| intercepts its retrograde passage into the bladder ; (3) an organ of copulatic [ the penis ; and (-I) a canal, the urethra, which pierces the prostate and penis, a serves for the transit of both the generative and urinary secretions. j THE PROSTATE | The prostate is a firm elastic and contractile organ, lying between the blade " and the penis, and perforated by the urethra (figs. 620, 024, and 049). It f roughly comparable to a horse-chestnut in form and dimensions; its broac j