THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 786 The commissural system, consisting of the corpus callosum and the anterior commissure, has been akeacly described (pages 733, 742). The intrahemispheric or association fibres unite different portions of the cortex of the same hemisphere to one another. These fibres are in two sets—a long and a short. The short fibres (fibrae arcuatse sen propri^e) unite two adjacent convolu- tions, the fibres passing round beneath the fissure which separates the two convolutions. The long fibres are disposed in several more or less well-defined tracts, namely : the cingulum, the fasciculus arcuatus, the fasciculus uncinatus, the perpendicular occipital fasciculus, and the fasciculus longitudinalis inferior. The cingulum is a well-defined band, which occupies the core of the gyrus fornicatus. Near the splenium of the corpus callosum it receives an acces- sion of fibres from the occipital lobe. The fasciculus arcuatus passes from the cortex of the frontal to the occipital lobe ; it also sends some fibres into the temporal lobe. The fasciculus uncinatus springs from the orbital gyri and from the inferior frontal convolution, and, after traversing the lower part of the claustrum, ends in the cortex of the temporal lobe hear the amygdaloid nucleus. The perpendicular occipital fasciculus passes from the inferior parietal lobule to the inferior occipito-temporal convolution. The fasciculus longitudinalis inferior is an extremely well-defined bundle which passes from the occipital to the temporal lobe. The external capsule also belongs to the association system, as it is chiefly concerned with the convolutions of the island of Eeil. THE PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM The cerebro-spinal nerves, together with the end-organs of these nerves, the sympathetic system and the gangha which are connected to both the cerebro-spinal and the sympathetic nerves, make up the peripheral nervous system. The cerebro- spinal nerves are invariably paired, and, with a few exceptions (notably the vagus), are symmetrical in their origin, course, and distribution on the two sides of the body. The cranial nerves arise directly from the brain and pass out from the skull through foramina in the cranial wall. The spinal nerves arise by anterior and posterior roots from the spinal cord, and leave the spinal canal by passing through the intervertebral foramina. The first spinal nerve is somewhat exceptional, as its origin is partly from the medulla, and, moreover, it leaves the spinal canal by passing between the occipital bone and the atlas. THE CEANIAL NERVES The cranial nerves are classified into nine pairs by Willis, and into twelve pairs by Soemmerring. Willis's classification depends upon the manner in which the nerves pierce the dura mater ; for example, the giosso-pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves all pierce that membrane opposite the jugular foramen, hence they collectively form a cranial nerve (the eighth) of Willis. In Soemmerring's classification each nerve-trunk is considered separately. Willis's classification was formerly in general use in this country ; it is now, however, generally discarded in favour of Soemmerring's classification. The latter will be followed in this work. The following table will explain the relation of Willis's to Soemmerring's- classification :—