THE NERVOUS SYSTEM 756 A horizontal section through the superior vermis will show the smaller nuclei of the cerebellum (nuclei fastigii, emboliformis, and giobosus). These are, however, somewhat difficult to find. Lastly, a median sagittal section will expose the fourth ventricle, to obtain a good view of which the remainders of the cerebellar hemispheres should be drawn gently aside. In doing this care should be taken of the inferior medullary velum. White matter of the cerebellum.—The course of the nerve-fibres in the cerebel- lum will be dealt with further on page 783, but the appearance presented by the white matter as seen in sections will now be described. In a mesial sagittal section of the cerebellum (fig. 427) the amount of ^vhite matter is smaller in proportion to I the grey matter than in any other section. It presents a characteristically branched ! appearance w^hich is called the arbor vitse. Two main divisions, the vertical and I horizontal branches, of the arbor vitse are described, and from these secondary i ramifications arise. The vertical branch is mainly continued into the culmen, | where it subdivides somewhat freely. It sends forwards usually two branches into i the lobulus centralis, and a slender twig into the lingula. The main axis of the i horizontal branch is prolonged into a slender white band, which enters the folium cacuminis. From the upper surface of the horizontal branch a stout offset is sent ' into the declive, and from its lower surface branches are sent into the tuber valvulae, j pyramid, and uvula. A small offset enters the nodule, and if this be traced in a lateral direction it will be found to be continued into the inferior medullary velum. In coronal sections the disposition of the white matter in the hemispheres is well seen. It forms a somewhat ovoid mass in each hemisphere, near the centre of which the corpus dentatum is placed (fig. 416). The appearance is very similar in ! sagittal sections through the centre of a hemisphere. It is not necessary to give a separate description of the divisions of the white matter, as these correspond to the i lobulation of the surface. I The grey matter in the interior of the cerebellum consists of four pairs of nuclei, which are everywhere separated by white matter from the grey matter of j the folia. The largest of these nuclei in each hemisphere is called the corpus ! dentatum. The smaller, which are placed nearer the middle line, are called the : nucleus emboliformis, nucleus giobosus, and nucleus fastigii. The corpus dentatum is a crumpled sheet of grey matter which presents a similar i outline in coronal, sagittal, and horizontal sections. This outline is approximately i an oval bounded by a wavy line. This line is broken only on the inner and anterior side, where the white matter of the exterior is continuous with that of the interior ' through an aperture called the hilum. The nucleus emboliformis is an elongated streak of grey matter, which is placed on the inner side of the corpus dentatum. It is somewhat enlarged at its ■ anterior extremity, hence it may be described as club-shaped. The nucleus glo- ' bosus consists of several spheroidal clumps of grey matter, which are placed on the < inner side of the preceding; these clumps are connected with one another, and also with the nucleus emboliformis and nucleus fastigii. The nucleus fastigii varies ! somewhat in its minute structure from the three nuclei above described. It is ' situated immediately over the roof of the fourth ventricle, separated from that ; cavity, however, by a thin stratum of white matter. The nuclei of opposite sides i nearly touch one another in the middle line. The FOURTH VENTRICLE is a cavity Avhich is widest and most lofty about its i centre, and narrowed at its anterior and posterior extremities. It communicates \ with the third ventricle in front through the aqueduct of Sylvius, and passes ' behind into the central canal of the spinal cord. Its long axis is directed upwards ; and forwards. The structures which bound it behind and above are said to j constitute its roof, while the parts bounding it below and in front are described as I its floor. The roof is formed from before backwards by the following structures : the superior peduncles of the cerebellum with the valve of Vieussens between them,