MANDIBULAR DIVISION OF THE FIFTH NEBVE 801 n a groove in the vomer between the periosteum and the mucous membrane to the interior palatine canal. Here it communicates with the nasal branch of the ,nterior superior dental nerve. The two naso-palatine nerves then pass through he foramina of Scarpa in the anterior palatine canal, the left nerve passing through he anterior of the two foramina. In the lower part of the anterior palatine canal he two nerves form a plexiform communication (formerly described as Cloquet's angiion) and furnish twigs to the anterior part of the hard palate. In this situa- ion they communicate with the anterior palatine nerves. (3) Descending branches.—The descending branches are the great or anterior, be posterior, and the external palatine nerves. Like the internal set of branches, tiey are in part derived from the ganglion and in part directly continuous with be spheno-palatine nerves. The great or anterior palatine nerve arises from the inferior angle of Meckel's angiion, and passes downwards through the posterior palatine canal, accompanied y the descending palatine artery. Emerging from the canal, it divides into two r three branches, which pass forwards in grooves in the hard palate and supply le glands and mucous membrane of the hard palate and the gums on the inner spect of the alveolar border of the upper jaw. During its course through the osterior palatine canal, the anterior palatine nerve gives off, usually two, inferior asal nerves. These nerves pass through small openings in the perpendicular late of the palate bone to supply the mucous membrane lining the back parts of le inferior turbinated bone, and of the middle and inferior meatus of the nose. The posterior or small palatine nerve passes downwards through the accessory alatine canal, and enters the soft palate, where it supplies the levator palati and zygos uvulae muscles. According to the researches of Horsley and Beevor the Leventh nerve supplies the levator palati; they state that the path by which the bres from this nerve reach the palate is probably through the upper branch of le pharyngeal plexus. The external palatine nerve, the smallest of the three, traverses the external alatine canal, and supplies twigs to the tonsil and to the adjacent part of the soft Eilate. (4) Posterior branch.—The Vidian is considered by some anatomists to be a ranch, in which case it would be classed here. We have, however, regarded it 3 the united motor and sympathetic root of the ganglion ; therefore, the pharyngeal canch only remains to be described. The pharyngeal branch is of small size, and passes backwards and somewhat iwards through the pterygo-palatine canal, accompanied by the pterygo-palatine rtery. It is distributed to the mucous membrane of the uppermost, part of the barynx, to the upper part of the posterior nares, to the opening of the Eustachian ibe, and to the lining of the sphenoidal sinus. Thikd ok Mandibular Division of the Fifth Nerve The mandibular (inferior maxillary) division is the largest of the three divisions I the fifth nerve, and is formed, as before stated, by the union of two distinct parts, amely, the entire motor ro.ot of the fifth nerve and a large bundle of fibres srived from the sensory root and traversing the Gasserian ganglion. These two arts pass through the foramen ovale and unite immediately outside the skull to form large trunk which terminates almost directly after its formation by dividing into smaller anterior and a larger posterior portion. The anterior portion is chiefly lotor, and the posterior division mainly sensory in function. Pre^dous to its ivision, two branches arise'from the trunk of the nerve, namely, the recurrent erve and the nerve to the internal pterygoid. (1) The recurrent nerve enters the cranium through the foramen spinosum, 3 F