CHOBOID PLEXUSES—THALAMENCEPHALON 745 of the temporal lobes. This operation should be conducted with gentleness, as the walls of the third ventricle are very prone to become miduly divaricated by this dissection. The part removed should be re-examined, as the relations between the fissures and hippocampi can be studied to great advantage at this stage. The cavity of the third ventricle may now be displayed by raising the velum interpositum, and reflecting it backwards. This must be done cautiously, as the pineal body is closely enfolded in the posterior part of the under layer of that membrane, and an attempt should be made to retain it in its proper place. The dissector should thoroughly examine the cavity and floor of the third ventricle and the free surfaces of the optic thalami, but is recommended to dissect the deep surfaces of the latter bodies in connection with the mesencephalon. The Thalamencephalon The THIRD VENTRICLE is a narrow cavity whose lateral walls are so closely approximated that in coronal sections it appears as a vertical slit. It communi- cates in front with the lateral ventricles by the foramina of Monro. Behind, it is continuous with the fourth ventricle through a narrow passage, the aqueduct of Sylvius. The opening into the aqueduct is bounded above by a transverse white bundle of fibres, the posterior commissure; and, above this, a prolongation of the Fig. 421.—Coronal Section through the Anterior Part of the Third Ventricle. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) CORPUS CALLOSUM • SEPTUM LUCIDUM iNTERTOR CORNU OF i.\TERAL VENTRICLE i\ 'IG TRACT mPORAL LOBE CAUDATE NUCLEUS TjENIA SEMl- GIRCULARIS OPERCULUM CLAUSTRUM PUTAMEN ISLAND OF REIL GLOBUS PALLIDUS ANTERIOR COMMISSURE AMYGDALOID NUCLEUS PITUITARY BODY ventricular cavity extends into the stalk of the pineal body, in which it ends blindly. The third ventricle is covered by the corpus callosum, the fornix, and the velum interpositum ; its true roof, however, is formed by the epithelium lining the under surface of the last-named structure. The central part of its cavity is crossed transversely by the middle or grey commissure. It is bounded, laterally by the aptic thalami, and in front by the anterior pillars of the fornix and by the anterior commissure. It is limited behind by the commencement of the aqueduct of Sylvius, by the posterior commissure, and by the reflexion of epithelium from the tipper surface of the pineal body on to the under surface of the velum interpositum.