THE MUSCLES 886 8. SEMI-MEMBRANOSUS The semi-membranosus (fig. 288)—named from the broad membrane-Hl aponeurosis which forms the upper third of the muscle—is strong, flattened, an fusiform. Origin.—The anterior and outer of the facets upon the back of the tub( ischii. Insertion.—(1) The lower part of the posterior extremity of the groove upc the back and inner side of the inner tuberosity of the tibia ; (2) by a band ( fibres which pass upwards and outwards to the upper and back part of the extern; condyle of the femur, and blend with the posterior ligament of the knee joint; (! by a broad expansion which, passing downwards and outwards from its insertic^ into the inner tuberosity to the oblique line at the back of the tibia, forms tl aponeurosis which invests the posterior surface of the popliteus ; (4) a few fibr^ pass downwards and forwards from the lower border of its tibial insertion to blei with the internal lateral ligament. Structure.—The upper part of the muscle consists of a strong flat tendc, about three-quarters of an inch broad, which extends along the outer border of tli muscle to the middle of the thigh. The tendon of insertion is not quite so broi but much thicker, and reaches upon the inner border of the muscle also as high ; the middle of the thigh. Between these two tendons the muscular fibres whi( are comparatively short pass downwards and inwards, beginning upon the upp tendon about four inches below the tuber ischii, and ending upon the lower tendc; close to the upper part of the inner condyle. The muscle has therefore a ve| distinctly penpiform arrangement, but it is peculiar in this respect that the flesl' fibres are at each extremity attached to a tendon, and are not, as is usually tj case, at one extremity attached to the bone. It is also unusual for a muscle have so long a tendon at its proximal end. One effect of this arrangement is allow of the free action of the long head of the biceps which crosses over tl part of the semi-membranosus. Otherwise the swelling of the fibres of the bice, during contraction would have pressed upon and interfered with the action of t semi-membranosus, which usually contracts at the same time. Nerve-supply.—From the first, second, and third nerves of the sacral plexus the great sciatic nerve which sends branches to the deep surface of the mus( > about the middle of the thigh. Action.—To strongly extend the hip and to flex the knee. When the knee ! flexed it will also assist in the internal rotation of the leg, but with less mechanitl advantage than the semi-tendinosus and gracilis, as its line of action is so near f) the axis of movement. Like most penniform muscles, the semi-membranosus is very powerful, as ? shown by the thickness of its tendons. This strength is necessitated by the fijb that its line of action is so much nearer to the axis of movement both in flexi i and rotation inwards of the knee. Like the other muscles which arise from liJ tuber ischii, it will co-operate powerfully in raising the body from the stoopi j position, this prominence of bone forming the short arm of the lever by which 13 trunk is raised. This group of muscles affords a good example of the peculjc action obtained by long muscles passing over two joints. If all three muses were to remain passive, like so many ligaments, it is obvious that on flexion of b hip joint by means of the ilio-psoas and other muscles, the hamstrings wo i ensure the simultaneous flexion of the knee ; or, again, on extension of the knee m the action of the powerful muscles of the front of the thigh, the hamstrings wop produce a corresponding extension of the hip joint. Seeing, however, that th e hamstrings are not passive, but that they contract powerfully at the same time a I il