515 LING UAL—FA CIAL ide at the tip of the tongue ; and when the tongue is divided accurately in the Iniddle Une, as in the removal of one half of that organ, practically no haemorrhage ')ccurs. (3) The sublingual artery (fig. 333) usually comes off from the lingual at the .nterior margin of the hyo-giossus. It passes beneath the mylo-hyoid to the jublingual gland, which it supplies, and, perforating the muscle, anastomoses jnth the submental artery, a branch of the facial. It also supphes branches to jhe side of the tongue, and gives off a terminal twig, which anastomoses beneath he mucous mem.brane of the floor of the mouth (to which it also gives twigs) with jhe artery of the opposite side. The artery of the frsenum is usually derived from tiis vessel (fig. 333). (4) The ranine artery, the termination of the lingual, courses forwards beneath be mucous membrane, on the under surface of the tongue, to the tip. It lies xternal to the genio-hyo-glossus, between that muscle and the inferior linguahs, nd is accompanied by the ranine vein and terminal branch of the gustatory nerve, t follows a very tortuous course, so that it is not stretched when the tongue is rotruded. Branches are given off from it to the contiguous muscles and mucous bembrane. Near the tip of the tongue it communicates with its fellow of the oppo- fte side, as shown by the fact that when the hngual artery of one side is injected le injection fluid passes into the branches of the artery of the other side. 4. THE FACIAL AETEEY The facial artery (fig. 334)—also called the external maxillary—arises imme- iately above the lingual from the fore part of the external carotid, at times a common trunk with the lingual. It courses forwards and upwards in a )rtuous manner to the lower jaw, and, passing over the body of this bone at the aterior edge of the masseter muscle, winds obliquely upwards and forwards over 16 face to the inner canthus of the eye, where it inosculates, under the name of le angular artery, with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. It is usually divided ito two portions—the cervical and the facial. The cervical portion (fig. 334) ascends tortuously from its origin from the eternal carotid upwards and forwards beneath the posterior belly of the digastric pd stylo-hyoid muscles, and usually also beneath the hypoglossal nerve, and then [laking a turn runs horizontally forwards for a short way beneath the jaw, either abedded in or lying under the submaxillary gland. It has here the mylo-hyoid and ylo-glossus beneath it. On leaving the cover of the gland it forms a loop passing bt wards and then upwards over the lower border of the jav/ immediately in iont of the masseter muscle, where it is superficial, being merely covered by the in- Igument and platysma. Here it can be felt beating, and can be readily compressed. 1 the above course it lies in the posterior part of the submaxillary triangle, and, addition to the structures already mentioned as crossing it, is covered by the dn, superficial fascia, and platysma, and by one or two submaxillary lymphatic ands. The vein is separated from the artery by the submaxillary gland, the )sterior belly of the digastric muscle, the stylo-hyoid muscle, and the hypoglossal )rve. The facial portion (fig. 334) of the facial artery ascends tortuously forwards 'Wards the angle of the mouth, passing under the platysma (risorius) and zygomatic uscles and the supramaxillary and buccal branches of the facial nerve. It here 3 upon the jaw and the buccinator muscle. Thence it courses upwards by the e of the nose towards the inner canthus of the eye, being covered by the levator ijitji^l |bii superioris, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and infraorbital branches of le facial nerve, and lying on the levator anguli oris (sometimes on the levator L L 2 Ik Id i0