119 THE CLAVICLE it right angles through this surface of the clavicle ; it is traversed by a clavicular branch of the cervical plexus. The posterior surface is concave, and forms an arch over the brachial plexus and subclavian artery. The inferior surface com- mences externally as a groove for the suhclavius, the floor of the groove being continuous with the inferior surface of the outer third of the clavicle, and frequently presents the orifice of the nutrient foramen. Internally, this groove becomes very narrow, and runs on to the rough surface for the rhomboid ligament. On the sternal side of the rhomboid impression there is often a facet where the clavicle plays on the first costal cartilage. Close beside this facet the sterno-hyoid finds an attachment, and occasionally the sterno-thyroid. Of the three borders, the superior separates the anterior and posterior surfaces ; it is faintly marked towards the sternal end ; externally, it becomes continuous with the posterior border of the outer third. The anterior border separates the anterior and inferior surfaces : it is continuous with the anterior border of the flattened portion. The posterior border separates the inferior and posterior surfaces, and forms the posterior lip of the groove for the suhclavius ; it begins at the conoid tubercle, and ends at the rhomboid depression. The inner or sternal end of the clavicle is broad and expanded ; it plays upon a fibro-cartilage interposed between it and the clavicular facet of the manubrium of the sternum, and its borders are rough for the attach- ment of the sterno-clavicular and interclavicular ligaments. The acromial, or outer end, presents a smooth articular facet, directed slightly downwards for the acromion ; its edges, especially the superior, are rough for the acromio-clavicular ligaments. The following muscles are attached to the clavicle:— Sterho-cleido-mastoid. Deltoid. Pectoralis major. Trapezius. Platysma myoides. Sterno-hyoid. Suhclavius. Sterno-thyroid (occasionally). Ligaments:— Interclavicular. Interarticular (acromio-clavicular). Interarticular (sternal). Conoid. Capsular (sterno-clavicular). Trapezoid. Rhomboid or costo-clavicular. Costo-coracoid membrane. Capsular (acromio-clavicular). Deep cervical fascia. Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery is a branch of the suprascapular ; it enters the bone on the under surface of the shaft near the middle of the subclavian groove. It is directed towards the acromial end. The acromial end of the clavicle receives numerous branches from the acromio-thoracic artery, and twigs from the arteries in the muscles attached to it. Ossification.—"the clavicle is ossified from two centres. The primary nucleus appears in the sixth week of embryonic life in the tissue immediately overlying the cartilaginous pre-coracoid bar (see p. 124). The clavicle begins as a membrane bone, but the ossification quickly extends into the underlying cartilage; it is therefore a dermal splint engrafted on cartilage. About the seventeenth year a secondary nucleus appears at the sternal end. Consolidation is complete by the twentieth year.