1115 THE SCALP The sphenoidal sinuses are less important surgically, but these points should be remembered:—(1) Fracture through them may lead to bleeding from the nose, which is thus brought into communication with the middle fossa ; (2) the com- jmnnication of their mucous membrane with that of the nose may explain the inveteracy of certain cases of oz^na ; (3) here and in the frontal sinuses very ;lense exostoses are sometimes formed. THE SCALP.—The importance of the scalp is best seen from an examination of its layers (fig. 663). These are—(1) skin; (2) subcutaneous fat and fibrous tissue ; (3) the occipito-frontalis and aponeurosis; (4) the subaponeurotic layer of con- Inective tissue ; (5) the pericranium and subpericranial connective tissue. ' The first three layers are connected and move together. (1) The union of the skin, and its density, are to enable it to meet pressure, and also to prevent it rucking jinto folds. Furthermore, they account for the extreme pain of inflammation here, and jthe difficulty of raising a blister on the scalp. The presence of hairs and sebaceous glands is of much more importance than appears at first. Thus the rooting of the former is so firm that in the case of young women the whole scalp may be Fig. 663.—Section through the Scalp, Skull, and Dura Mater. (Tillaux.) Skin and super- ficial fascia with. HAIR BULBS AND SEBACEOUS GLANDS Fat pellets Occipito-frontalis aponeurosis —-Sub-aponeurotie connective tissue Pericranium Subp ericranial connective tissue SKULL : DIPLOIC TISSUE Dura mater Skull cavity torn oft' by machinery. The sebaceous glands have also grave importance. If in removing them the aponeurosis beneath is pricked or the wound becomes foul, fatal uppuration in the ' dangerous area ' beneath may follow. (2) The subcutaneous fat is arranged much as in the palm, viz. tough fatty pellets are enclosed in fibrous ^ partitions, dipping from the skin to the third layer, and thus tying the three layers together. (3) The occipito-frontalis and its aponeurosis have been fully described jjjlj slsewhere (page 454). (4) The subaponeurotic layer of connective tissue. The j^ji characters of this layer are quite opposed to those of the layer of connective tissue above the aponeurosis. It is loose, delicate, and fatless. From these result the free mobility of the scalp, the fact that it can be torn away, and (most important of all) the facility with which inflammatory products can spread in this layer. The perils of pus pent up here are extreme, viz. sloughing of the scalp, or necrosis of the bones, blood-poisoning, and meningitis, from mischief travelling along the emissary and diploic veins (fig. 663). The continuity of the difterent scalp layers by bands of connective tissue passing from the skin to the occipito-frontalis, and thence along vessels, emissary and others, into the venous sinuses, or by the diploic veins within the skull, will account for scalp inflammation reaching the meninges.