THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION 998 surface comes into immediate contact with the abdominal wall; this portion is triangular in shape, is bounded on the right by the edge of the liver, and on the left by the cartilages of the eighth and ninth ribs; and below by a horizontal line passing between the tips of the tenth costal cartilages (fig. 582). Besides the abdominal wall, this surface is covered by the diaphragm and the under surface of the liver (fig. 590). ! Relations to the peritoneum.—The stomach is covered by peritoneum in its whole | extent, except immediately along the curvatures and upon a small triangular space at the back of the cardiac orifice. It is enclosed between two layers. These two layers at its upper border or lesser curvature come together to form the lesser omentum, and at the lower border or greater curvature extend downwards, to form' the great omentum (figs. 562, 563). At the left of the oesophagus the two layers j pass to the diaphragm, forming the gastro-phrenic ligament; and at the fundus they pass on to the spleen, forming the gastro-splenic omentum. Fig. 568.—^Muscular Coat of the Stomach. (Luschka.) Alteration of position.—As the stomach becomes distended it undergoes some alteration in position. The greater curvature is elevated and carried forwards, the anterior surface is directed upwards, and the posterior downwards, and the pylorus passes some inches to the right. This rotation about its long axis is influenced by the fixity of the lesser curvature of the organ. Structure.—The walls of the stomach consist of four coats—serous, muscular, submucous, and mucous. The external serous coat is formed by the peritoneum, and has to the naked eye the usual shiny appearance of that membrane. The muscular coat consists of three layers :— A longitudinal layer externally, which is continued from similar fibres on the oesophagus, and is thickest along the curvatures, more particularly the lesser. At the pylorus the fibres are more regularly placed round that orifice (fig. 568). A circular layer, which regularly surrounds the whole stomach, and becomes much thicker at the pyloric end where it forms the sphincter. These circular fibres are arranged perpendicularly to the long axis of the stomach (fig. 569). An oblique layer, continuous with the circular fibres of the oesophagus. They