SURGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY 1238 The tibialis anticus is often cut about an inch above its insertion into the internal cuneiform, a point which is below the level of its synovial sheath. Th( tendon has here the dorsalis pedis on its outer side, but separated by the tendon o: the extensor proprius hallucis. The knife is introduced on this side. The tibialis posticus.—The usual rule for dividing this tendon is to take a spoi two inches above the internal malleolus, and as accurately as possible midway between the anterior and internal borders of the leg. This point will give th( inner margin of the tibia, in close apposition to which the tendon is lying, and is j point at which the tendon is rather farther from the artery than it is below, and ii also above the commencement of its synovial sheath. A sharp-pointed knife ii used first to open the sheath freely, and then a blunt-pointed one to divide tht tendon. The flexor longus digitorum is usually cut at the same time. Owing to the great difficulty in making sure of dividing the tibialis posticu tendon at this spot, and the risk of cutting the posterior tibial artery (fig. 775), i has been advised of late years (Parker) to divide this tendon together with tha of the anticus simultaneously by an incision a little below and anterior to the tr of the internal malleolus. Other guides are the position of the astragalo-scaphoi joint, and, where the deformity is of some standing, the crease which denotes th inversion of the foot. The position of the two tibial arteries should be noted, an; also the lines along which the tendons are converging—the one across the lower en'j of the tibia, the other from behind the tibia and below the sustentaculum tali t; the line of the scaphoid and internal cuneiform. Mr. E. W. Parker has name this operation syndesmotomy, as he rightly considers that the astragalo-scaphoi' ligaments require division at the same time. j Peronei.—The peronei longus and brevis may be divided two inches above th external malleolus, so as to be above the level of their synovial sheath. The knii . should be inserted very close to the bone, so as to pass between the fibula and tt i tendons. Division below the external malleolus is somewhat easier, but as th | opens their synovial sheath or sheaths (vide supra, page 1237), it requires scrupuloi I care as to cleanliness. i THE FOOT Bony landmarks.—The following are of the greatest practical importance owii to the operations on which they bear. (A) Along the inner aspect of the foot are the following:— (1) Internal tuberosity of the calcaneum ; (2) internal malleolus; (3) one fu | inch below the malleolus, the sustentaculum tali; (4) about an inch in front of tl internal malleolus, and a little lower, is the tubercle of the scaphoid, the gt between it and the sustentaculum being filled by the calcaneo-scaphoid ligame] | and the tendon of the tibialis posticus, in which there is often a sesamoid bon( I (5) the internal cuneiform ; (6) the base of the first metatarsal; and (7) the he;; of the same bone, with its sesamoid bones below. (Holden.) j (B) Along the outer aspect are—(1) The outer tuberosity of the calcaneun | (2) the external malleolus ; (3) the peroneal tubercle of the calcaneum (wh( ■ present), one inch below the malleolus, with the long peroneal tendon below | and the short one above ; (4) the projection of the anterior end of the calcaneum, ai \ the calcaneo-cuboid joint, midway between the tip of the external malleolus ai i the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; (5) the base of the fifth metatarsal bon; (6) the head of this bone. j Levels of joints and lines of operations.—In Syme's amputation through tl j ankle joint, the incision starts (say in the case of the left foot) from the tip of t] j external malleolus, and is then carried, pointing a little backwards towards the hei across the sole to a point half an inch below the internal malleolus. I i