149 THE HIP-BONE gaments. The crest extends from the anterior superior ihac to the posterior I'lperior ihac spine. It is thickest at its extremities. The prominent edges, or 'ps, are for the attachment of muscles and fasciae. The outer hp affords attachment to the gkiteal portion of the fascia lata. The eternal oblique is inserted into the anterior, and the latissimus dorsi arises from 16 posterior half of this lip of the crest. The anterior two-thirds of the inter- lediate space gives origin to the internal oblique. The inner lip, by its anterior u'ee-fourths, gives attachment to the transversalis ; behind this is a small surface )r the quadratus lumbormn, and the remainder is occupied by the erector siyincB. 'he extreme inner margin of the lip serves for the attachment of the iliac fascia. The anterior border of the ilium extends from the anterior su|)erior spine to lie margin of the acetabulum. The anterior superior spine gives attachment to 'onpart's ligament, and the sartorius which also arises from the upper half of the uperior iliac notch. This notch is terminated inferiorly by the anterior inferior jpine: it is smaller, less prominent than the superior, and gives origin to the 'traight head of the rectus femoris and the main limb of the ilio-femoral band of he capsule of the hip-joint. Beneath the inferior iliac spine is the inferior iliac lotch ; it is broad, but shallow, and limited by an eminence, the ilio-pubal ridge, • yhich indicates the line of ankylosis of the pubes and the ilium. A few fibres of the liacus arise from this notch. I The posterior border of the ilium presents above the posterior superior spine, ivliich gives attachment to the greater sacro-sciatic ligament and the miiUifidus 'jjincB, and a portion of the oblique sacro-iliac ligament. Below this is a shallow ■lotch terminating below in the posterior inferior spine, corresponding to the pos- terior border of the auricular surface. This spine receives a portion of the greater sacro-sciatic ligament. Below the spine the posterior border of the ilium forms ilie upper segment of the greater sciatic notch. The ischium consists of a thick solid body, a prominent tuberosity, and a ramus. The body is triangular ; its outer surface forms the posterior and inferior section ,)f the acetabulum. The inner surface forms part of the true pelvis, and meets the [lium a little distance below the ilio-pectineal line. It also forms the floor, or Jion-articular portion, of the acetabulum, and meets the pubes anteriorly ; the line bf junction is frequently indicated in adult bones by a rough line extending from jhe ilio-pubal ridge to the margin of the obturator foramen. The free border of jhis surface forms the posterior boundary of the obturator foramen. The inner surface of the ischium gives origin to the obturator internus. The posterior surface pf the ischium lies between the posterior rim of the acetabulum and the greater sciatic notch. Inferiorly this surface is limited by the obturator groove, which receives the posterior fleshy border of the obturator externus when the thigh is flexed. The capsule of the hip-joint is attached to the outer part of the posterior [surface. The pyriformis, the greater and lesser sciatic nerves, the sciatic artery, 'and the nerve to the qiiadratus femoris, cross it. The inner border assists the ilium to complete the greater sciatic notch, which is terminated inferiorly by the prominent ischiatic spine, which gives attachment to the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament, the levator ani, and coccygeus. From the base of the spine, posteriorly, |the gemellus suijerior arises ; and the internal pudic vessels and nerve, with the juerve to the obturator internus, cross it. The recess below the ischiatic spine is !the lesser sciatic notch; in the recent state it is covered with cartilage, and 'presents two, three, or four grooves for the tendinous under surface of the obturator internus muscle. The tuberosity is that portion of the ischium which supports the body in the 'sitting posture. It has an inner and an outer lip, and an intermediate space which 'presents two rough surfaces ; of these, the upper and outer is for the origin of the \semi-membranosus, and the lower and inner surface for the conjoint origin of the II