THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION 1002 fimscuhts susj^tensoriiis duocleni. This name has been given to a fibrous band that contains, according to Treitz, some plain muscular fibres, and that descends to th( vertical part of the duodenum from the left crus of the diaphragm and the tissuei about the coeliac axis. Mr. Lockwood points out that this band is continued on, after being insertec into the duodenum, between the layers of the mesentery. He suggests the naiiK of the ' suspensory muscle of the duodenum and mesentery,' and says, ' togethe; with the other constituents of the root of the mesentery, it forms a band of con siderable strength, sufficient not only to support the weight of the intestines am mesentery, but also to resist the pressure of the descent of the diaphragm.' I In connection with the termination of the duodenum may be mentioned thj fossa duodeno-jejunalis. It is formed as a pouch behind a fold of peritoneum. Thi i fold runs from the parietal peritoneum, just to the left of the terminal orfourtlj part of the duodenum, and is attached in a vertical line to the anterior surface c i this portion of the bowel. It is of interest as being the seat of origin of a retro i peritoneal hernia. The fold forming the fossa is the remains of the ' duodenal fold,' modified b ■ Fig. 572.—The Fossa Duodeno-jejunalis. (Treves.) THE FOSSA THE DUODENAL FOLD Inferior ineaeuteric vein growth and displaced by the process of unequal development in the intestini j canal (page 1040, and figs. 605, 606). The pocket, or fossa, is of triangul{| outline, with the base or orifice upwards. Its apex extends below the last ber;j of the duodenum (fig. 572). The capacity of the fossa varies. In well-markel specimens it will lodge the thumb up to the first joint. It is actually occupif j by the duodeno-jejunal junction or bend. Out of one hundred bodies examined \ found this fossa in forty-eight examples. -\ Jejunum and ileum.—There is no unvarying method in the arrangement of tl \ individual coils of the small intestine. . In the majority of adult bodies the small intestine is disposed in an irregular i curved manner from left to right. The gut, starting from the duodenum, will fir j occupy the contiguous parts of the left side of the epigastric and umbilical regions | the coils then fill some part of the left hypochondriac and lumbar regions ; th( | now commonly descend into the pelvis, reappearing in the left iliac quarter, ar j then occupy, in order, the hypogastric, lower umbilical, right lumbar, and rig]! iliac regions. Before reaching the last situation they commonly descend aga: j into the pelvis. i I