454 THE MUSCLES a lean neck the bundles are often distinctly visible through the skin, especiall when an effort is made to depress the lower lip while the teeth are clenchec A thin band derived from the anterior part of the depressor anguli oris usuallj crosses it superficially beneath the chin (page 465). Upon its deep surface lii the deep cervical fascia, the external jugular vein, the glandulse concatenat^e of tb| neck, the parotid and submaxillary glands, and the superficial branches of th' cervical plexus, together with the masseter, and buccinator, the muscles of th front and side of the neck, and the pectoralis major and deltoid. Its anteric border lies externally to the sterno-clavicular joint, and is often conspicuous i the aged, in whom the two muscles may be seen to hang, like a dewlap, beneat the chin, and then to divide into the two separate folds formed by their intern; borders, which run outwards and downwards towards the clavicles. Variations.—The anterior border of the muscle may be placed as far backwards as tl middle of the clavicle, and in some cases the muscle has been entirely absent. Slips ha^ been seen going to the side of the thjToid cartilage, the amncle or the mastoid process, i 2. OCCIPITO-FRONTALIS The occipito-frontalis—named from its two muscular bellies, which covl parts of the occipital and frontal bones—consists of two curved muscular shee; united by a strong aponeurosis, and is best described in three parts—viz. t| occipitalis and frontalis muscles and the epicranial aponeurosis. j (1) The occipitalis is a small quadrilateral sheet. Origin.—(1) The outer two-thirds of the superior nuchal line of the occipifl bone, and (2) a ridge upon the mastoid process. Insertion.—The posterior border of the epicranial aponeurosis, about one in; and a half above the superior nuchal line of the occipital bone. ' (2) The frontalis—a curved sheet of somewhat quadrilateral shape, with convex upper, and a concave lower border. Origin.—The epicranial aponeurosis, about half-way between the coroi suture and the orbital arch. Insertion.—The deep surface of the skin of the eyebrow and of that wh: occupies the space at the root of the nose between the eyebrow and the mid b line. 1 (3) The epicranial aponeurosis forms the central tendon of the occipij- frontalis, and its attachments will be described with the structure of the mus(j. Structure.—The occipitalis is thin and pale, and arises by short tendinous int> mingled with muscular fibres, and, after passing in parallel lines for about one ii i and a half upwards, it is inserted into the epicranial aponeurosis, a strong cur& sheet, which occupies the whole of the surface of the skull from the superior nuc lines behind to the eyebrows in front, and is continued laterally over the tempc fascia of either side to about the level of the external auditory meatus. Above, i tendinous, and composed of fibres which run from behind forwards. It is thin front and behind, where it forms a sort of sheath to the occipitalis and front muscles ; but near the median line behind it is thick where it fills up the intei between the occipitales. Laterally, it becomes very thin, and is lost in the Icje connective tissue superficial to the temporal fascia, after having supplied their ori n to the attrahens and attollens aurem muscles. In front, a narrow triangular i\h with the base upwards and the apex between the eyebrows, is left between |e frontales, which are larger and somewhat thicker than the occipitales. The fills of the frontales run in parallel bundles downwards and slightly inwards, and p lost in the subcutaneous fat of the eyebrows; while near the middle line a si slip is continued upon the bridge of the nose as the ])i)ramidalis, after entei