FEMOBAL HEBNIA 1169 formed, femoral hernia passes at first downwards in the femoral canal as far as the saphenous opening, but, as a rule, does not go farther downwards on the thigh, but iiounts forwards and upwards, and somewhat outwards, even reaching the level 3f Poupart's ligament. The reasons for this change of position are—(1) The larrowing of the femoral sheath, funnel-like, i.e. wide above but narrowed below ; 2) the unyielding nature of the lower margin of the saphenous opening ; (3) the "act that this margin and the outer border are united to the femoral sheath ; 4) the constant flexion of the thigh ; (5) the fact that vessels (chiefly veins) and ymphatics descend to the saphenous opening, the veins to join the saphena vein, md the lymphatics to join the deeper group : these descending vessels serve to cop upwards or suspend a femoral hernia, and thus prevent its further course lown wards. Coverings of a femoral hernia.—(A) At the upper or femoral ring it obtains )eritoneum, extra-peritoneal fat, and septum crurale. (B) In the canal, a coating of the femoral sheath. (C) At the external or superficial opening, further coverings of cribriform fascia, kin, and superficial fascia are added. Some of these may be deficient by the hernia bursting through them, or they may •e matted together. Sir A. Cooper thought this especially likely to occur with the ja,yer of femoral sheath and septum crurale to which he gave the name of fascia Impria, 1 PAETS CONCERNED IN UMBILICAL HERNIA A hernial protrusion at the umbilicus, or exomphalos, may occur at three istinct periods of life, according to the anatomy of the part. Any account of mbilical hernia would be incomplete vdthout an attempt to explain how this region, riginally a most distinct opening, is gradually closed and changed into a knotty aass of scar, the strongest point in the abdominal wall. During the first weeks of foetal life, in addition to the urachus, umbilical arteries, nd vein, some of the membranes and a portion of the intestine pass through the Ipening to join that part of the digestive tract which is developed outside the bdomen up to a certain time, and then re-enters that cavity. Occasionally this ondition persists, owing to failure of development, and the child is born with a urge hernial swelling outside the abdomen, imperfectly covered with skin and eritoneum. To this condition the term congenital umbilical hernia should be pplied. Later on in foetal life it is the umbilical vessels alone which pass through this ening. At birth there is a distinct ring which can be felt for some time after in the accid walls of an infant's belly. If this condition persist, a piece of intestine may nd its way through, forming the condition which should be known as infantile tnbilical hernia. This condition is not uncommon. "Why it is not more frequently met with is s:plained by the way in which this ring of infancy is closed and gradually con- srted into the dense mass of scar tissue so familiar in adult life. This is brought out (1) by changes in the ring itself; (2) by changes in the vessels which pass irough it. (1) Changes in the ring itself.—The umbilical ring is surrounded by a sphincter- ke arrangement of elastic fibres, best seen during the first few days of foetal life, fi the posterior wall of the belly. In older infants these fibres lose their elasticity, 3Come more tendinous, and then shrink more and more. As they contract they Lvide, as by a ligature, the vessels passing through the ring, thus accounting for the ict that the cord, wherever divided, drops off at the same spot and without bleeding. (2) Changes in the vessels themselves.—When blood ceases to traverse these, 4 F