THE BEGIONS OF THE ABDOMEN 1219 two levels—that of the highest point of the iliac crest, corresponding to the lower part of the third lumbar vertebra, and that of the anterior superior iliac spine, which lies about an inch below the level of the sacral promontory. The Ahdominal Viscera regionally arranged. Eight ' Middle Hypochondriac Liver : portion of right lobe (gall bladder, usually cut by longitudinal line). Kidney: upper and outer part. Colon: hepatic flexure and part of ascending colon. Left Lumbar Kidney: lower and outer part. Ascending colon and por- tion or whole of ccecum. Small intestine: chiefly eum. Epigastric Liver: quadrate, caudate, Spigelian, and greater part of left lobes (gall bladder usually cut by longitudinal line). Pancreas : head and body. Spleen: upper and inner part. Kidneys : upper and inner parts, with pelvis renalis. Suprarenal bodies. Stomach: middle and pyloric regions, cardiac and pyloric orifices. Duodenum : first and se- cond portions and termi- nation of third portion. Small intestine: trans- verse colon, variable portion. -Upper horizontal plane at level of loioesi point of costal border- Hypochonclriac Liver : portion of left lobe. Spleen: lower and outer part. Pancreas : tail. Kidneys : upper and outer part. Stomach : great cul-de-sac, Colon: splenic flexure. Umbilical Kidneys : lower and inner portions with ureters. Duodenum : lower flexure and part of third portion. Jejunum and ileum. Transverse colon: por- tion. Sig mo id flexure and com- mencement of rectum. Lumbar Kidney: lower and outer part. Small intestine : chiefly jejunum. Descending colon and por- tion oi sigmoid flexure. Inguinal Small intestines. Ccecum: lower occasionally. Inguinal canal. -Lou-er horizontal plane at level of anterior superior iliac spines carried into tniepelvis- Inguinal Small intestine. Sigmoid flexure : portion. Inguinal canal. HyiJogastric Small intestines. portion. Sigmoid flexure and rec- tum (portion). Ccecum : occasionally. Ureters. Bladder : in children, and if distended in adults. Fundus uteri and append- The objection to the plane of the highest point of the iliac crest is that it frequently excludes the mnbihcus from the umbihcal region, and reduces the middle zone (lumbar and umbilical regions) to a very narrow segment of the abdomen. On the other hand, the lower plane, that of the anterior ihac spmes, passes into the true pelvis and leaves a large portion of the iliac fossae in the lumbar regions, and it confines the lower lateral regions within a very restricted area. On the whole, however, it seems the more convenient, as it leaves the umbilicus nearly m the 4 Jj