THE ABTEBIES 594 (4) The ileo-colic descends behind the peritoneum towards the caecum, where it divides into a colic branch which tracks upwards beneath the peritoneum to anastomose with the descending branch of the right cohc ; and into an ileac branch which passes between the layers of the mesentery and anastomoses with the termination of the superior mesenteric artery. From the anastomotic loops formed between the termination of the superior mesenteric, the ileo-colic, the right colic, and the middle colic arteries, secondary loops are derived whence branches pass to the termination of the ileum, the caecum, the ' vermiform appendix, the ascending colon, and half the transverse colon. These branches on reaching the intestine divide into two, one of which passes in front, and the other behind the intestine, and, after encircling it, anastomose with each other and with the neighbouring circlets above and below. (5) The intestinal branches, or vasa intestini tenuis, arise from the convex side of the superior mesenteric, and, varying from twelve to sixteen in number, radiate in the mesentery, where each divides into two branches, which inosculate with similar branches given off from the branch above and below. From the primary loops thus formed, secondary loops are derived in like manner, and from these tertiary, and at times quaternary, or even quinary loops. From the ultimate loops terminal branches pass on to the intestine through the triangular interval left at the spot where the mesentery is reflected on to the muscular coat of the gut. On reaching the wall of the gut these terminal vessels bifurcate, the two branches encircling the intestine, and thus forming with those above and below a series of vascular rings surrounding the small intestine throughout its whole length. These ; branches of the superior mesenteric in their course to the intestine also supply the j mesentery and the mesenteric glands. The variations in the superior mesenteric artery are numerous. (A) It may be double. (B) It may give off accessory branches to the liver, stomach, pancreas, spleen, and gall-bladder. (C) It may give off branches normally derived from other sources, namely, the hepatic or its right or left branch, the cystic, the gastro-duodenal or its right gastro-epiploic branch, the gastric or the pancreatica magna. (D) It may give off the left colic and superior haemorrhoidal, thus taking the place in whole or in part of the inferior mesenteric. (E) Its colic and intestinal branches may vary considerably in their origin and course, and in the number of primary and secondary loops that they form. (F) A rare abnormality described by Hyrtl is the persistence of an omphalo-mesenteric artery running to the neighbourhood of the umbilicus and giving off a branch to the urachus, or a branch to the liver through j the falciform ligament, or a branch to the rectus anastomosing with the epigastric. | ,1 THE EENAL ARTERIES | The renal arteries come off one on each side of the abdominal aorta, a little below the superior mesenteric and first lumbar arteries, on a level with the first lumbar vertebra. They pass transversely outwards across the crura of the diaphragm to the kidneys, the right being on a slightly lower plane and somewhat longer than the left, and passing behind the inferior vena cava. In front of each is the corresponding renal vein. Behind each at the hilum of the kidney is the commencement of the ureter. Before entering the kidney they break up into three or four terminal branches. The distribution of the arteries in the kidney is i described under the anatomy of that organ. Each renal artery gives off the following branches :— {a) The inferior suprarenal, which ascends to the suprarenal body. [h) The capsular or perirenal branches to the capsule of the kidney and peri- renal fat. (c) The uretal branch to the upper end of the ureter. j Variations in the renal arteries are common. (A) The right and left renal may arise from the aorta by a common stem. (B) They may arise from the aorta lower than usual;