1024 THE OBGANS OF DIGESTION to the spleen; it is situated transversely across the vertebral column with the larg(j vessels intervening. ! i The anterior surface is in contact with the stomach, which organ gives ?! concavity to the surface (fig. 590). This surface is covered by peritoneum derivecj from the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. The posterior surface is in contact with the crura of the diaphragm, the aorta vena cava, and superior mesenteric vessels, which structures are interposed betweeri it and the spine (figs. 571, 586). The splenic artery and vein run lengthways abovd the back of the upper border of the posterior surface. To the left, the posterio]! surface is in contact with the left kidney and suprarenal capsule. The uppeij border in the middle line abuts against the coeHac axis. The inferior surface is narrow, and lies over the third part of the duodenum ancj beginning of the jejunum. The transverse meso-colon is continued from the fron- of the head along the border separating this surface from the anterior surface The splenic end of the transverse colon lies under the left extremity of this surface From the under surface of the transverse meso-colon a layer of peritoneum passe: to the central part of the inferior surface. Fig. 587.—The Pancreas and its Duct. DUCT OF PANCREAS DUCT OF PANCREAS COMMON BILE DUCT The tail of the pancreas is the name given to the left extremity of the organ it touches the anterior surface of the spleen. The duct of the pancreas, or the canal of Wirsung, Avhite in appearance, run from nearly the extreme left of the gland, concealed by the proper substance of th pancreas, nearer its posterior surface than the anterior, between the upper and lowe: borders, to empty into the lower and inner part of the second portion of the duodenun with the common bile duct. It runs sinuously, receiving its branches as it goes which enter nearly at right angles. These branches are straight. Its diameter nea: its termination is one-eighth of an inch. Near its termination it is generally joinet by another duct, that of the lesser pancreas, though this may open into the duo denum separately (fig. 587). The pancreatic duct often does not join the commo' bile duct until its termination, running side by side with it through the walls of th intestine. Occasionally the pancreatic duct opens by itself into the duodenum. Blood-supply.—The pancreas receives blood from the splenic artery throug' its pancreatic branches, and from the superior mesenteric and hepatic by th inferior and superior pancreatico-duodenal arteries, which form a loop runnin round, below, and to the right of its head. The blood is returned into the portal vein by means of the splenic and superio mesenteric veins.