582 THE ABTEBIES The intercostal portion.—In their course through the intercostal spaces the arteries are alike on both sides. They at first cross the intercostal spaces obliquely, in consequence of the downward direction of the ribs, towards the angle of the rib above, and thence are continued forward in the subcostal groove, and anastomose with the superior branches of the anterior intercostals from the internal mammary in the upper spaces, and from the musculo-phrenic in the lower spaces. They lie at first on the external intercostal muscles, being covered in front by the pleura and lung, the endothoracic fascia and the infra-costales muscles. Opposite the heads of the ribs they are crossed by the sympathetic nerve. At the angle of the ribs they pass under cover of the internal intercostal muscles, and thence to their termination lie between the two intercostal muscles. Their situation in the mid- space as far as the angle of the rib should be remembered in performmg paracentesis ? thoracis. To avoid the risk of injuring the vessels, the puncture should not be made ' further back than the angle of the ribs. They are accompanied by an intercostal nerve and vein, the vein lying above and the nerve below, except in the upper spaces where the artery, having to ascend to reach the space, at first lies below the nerve which passes transversely outwards. The uppermost aortic intercostal artery anastomoses with the superior intercostal from the subclavian, and at times sup- i plies almost entirely the second intercostal space. The arteries to the tenth and eleventh spaces on reaching the end of their respective ribs pass between the i abdominal muscles, and anastomose with the deep epigastric artery from the external iliac, and with the lumbar arteries from the abdominal aorta. The intercostal arteries give off' the following branches :— ((%) The dorsal branch.^This large branch is given oft' from the intercostals opposite the quadrilateral space bounded by the transverse process of the vertebra above, the neck of the rib below, the body of the vertebra internally, and the superior I costo-transverse ligament externally. Passing backwards towards this space with the dorsal branch of the corresponding intercostal nerve, the dorsal branch divides opposite the intervertebral foramen into a s]3inal and a muscular branch, (i) The spinal branch enters the intervertebral foramen along with the undivided trunk of the intercostal nerve, and subdivides into three branches :—(a) an anterior or preneural, which ramifies on the back of the body of the vertebra and anastomoses \ with the corresponding vessels above and below ; (/3) a posterior, or retroneural, ' which ramifies over the back of the spinal canal and also anastomoses with the like artery above and below ; and (c) a middle or medullary, which, passing inwards in the sheath of dura mater to the spinal cord, anastomoses with the anterior spinal artery in front, and with the posterior spinal artery behind, (ii) The muscular branch passes backwards through the quadrilateral space, and soon subdivides into an external and internal branch. The former passes between the longissimus 1 dorsi and ilio-costalis, and, after supplying these muscles, gives cutaneous offsets to : the integuments. The latter or internal branch pierces the multifidus spinae, and, | emerging betw^een the longissimus dorsi and semispinalis dorsi near the spinous processes, gives cutaneous offsets to the skin. It supplies the muscles in its course. (6) The collateral intercostal branch comes off from the intercostal artery j near the angle of the rib above, and descends to the upper border of the rib below, along which it runs between the intercostal muscles to anastomose with the inferior | division of the anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary artery. It is j much smaller than the main intercostal artery, and helps to supply the structures in the intercostal space and neighbouring parts. 1 (c) The pleural branches ramify beneath the pleura, forming a plexus by anastomosing with like branches above and below. i {d) The muscular branches supply the intercostals, serratus magnus, pectoralis I major and minor, and anastomose with the long and short thoracic branches of the | axillary artery. j