THE ABTEBIES 592 spleen enters the phreno-splenic ligament, and there breaks up into numerous branches, which enter the hilum and supply the organ. In this course it crosses in front of the left crus of the diaphragm and the upper end of the left kidney. The branches of the splenic artery are :—(1) The smaller pancreatic ; (2) the larger pancreatic; (3) the left gastro-epiploica; (4) the vasa brevia; and (5) the terminal. (1) The smaller pancreatic branches come off from the splenic at varying intervals, as that vessel courses along the upper margin of the pancreas. They enter and supply the organ. (2) The larger pancreatic branch usually arises from the splenic about the junction of its middle with its left third. Entering the pancreas obliquely, it runs from left to right, commonly above, and a little behind, the pancreatic duct, which it supplies together with the substance of the organ. (3) The left gastro-epiploic arises from the splenic behind the great cul-de- sac of the stomach, and, passing between the anterior layers of the great omentum, descends along the greater curvature of the stomach from left to right, and anasto- moses with the right gastro-epiploic. Like that vessel, it gives off ascending or gastric branches to the anterior and posterior surfaces of the stomach respectively, and long slender descending epiploic or omental branches to the great omentum which anastomose with like branches from the right and left colic arteries. (4) The vasa brevia come oft' from the splenic just before it divides into its terminal branches, oftentimes from some of these terminal branches themselves. Passing from between the folds of the phreno-splenic ligament into those of the gastro-splenic, they thus reach the greater cul-de-sac of the stomach, where, ramifying over both its anterior and posterior surfaces, they anastomose with the gastric and left gastro-epiploica arteries. (5) The terminal branches, five to eight or more in number, are given off from the splenic as it lies in the phreno-splenic ligament, and, entering the spleen at the hilum, are distributed in the way mentioned in the description of that organ. The variations of the splenic artery are neither numerous nor important. (A) It may divide into two branches which reunite, the splenic vein running through the loop thus formed. (B) It may sometimes give off branches normally derived from other vessels, such as the gastric, the middle colic, and the left hepatic. (C) The variations in its origin are mentioned under Variations of the Cceliac Axis (page 589). THE SUPEKIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY The superior mesenteric artery is given off from the front of the aorta a little below the coeliac axis, which it nearly equals in size ; sometimes as a common trunk with the axis. Lying at first behind the pancreas and splenic vein, it soon passes forwards between the lower border of that gland and the upper border of the third portion of the duodenum, and, crossing in front of the duodenum, enters the mesentery, in which it runs from left to right, in the form of a curve with its con- vexity to the left, to the caecum, where it anastomoses with its ileo-colic branch. Its vein lies to its right side. It is surrounded by the mesenteric plexus of nerves. The accessory portion of the head of the pancreas dips in behind the vessel. From the concave side of the artery branches are given off to the duodenum and the colon, viz.:— (1) The inferior pancreatico-duodenal; (2) the middle colic ; (3) the right coHc ; and (4) the ileo-colic. From the convex side branches are given off to the small intestines, viz. :— (5) The vasa intestini tenuis. It will thus be seen that the superior mesenteric artery supplies, with the excep-