BASIL AB 543 erebellar hemisphere, siippHes its cortex, and anastomoses along its outer margin n\h the superior cerebellar arteries. From the undivided trunk of the posterior inferior cerebellar artery branches re given to the choroidal plexus and the fourth ventricle. THE BASILAR ARTERY The basilar artery is formed by the confluence of the right and left vertebral rteries, which meet at an acute angle at the lower border of the pons Varolii. It uns forwards and upwards in a slight groove in the middle line of the pons, and ivides at the upper border of that structure at the level of the pretentorial opening ato the two posterior cerebral arteries. Branches of the Basilar Artery The branches of the basilar artery are :—1. Transverse or pontal; 2. internal uditory ; 3. anterior cerebellar ; 4. superior cerebellar ; 5. posterior cerebral. 1. The transverse or pontal arteries are numerous small vessels which come ff at right angles on either side of the basilar artery, and, passing outwards over he pons, supply that structure and adjacent parts of the brain. 2. The internal auditory artery, a long slender vessel, accompanies the auditory lerve into the internal auditory meatus (fig. 387). It here lies between the facial and uditory nerves, and at the bottom of the meatus passes into the internal ear, ,nd anastomoses with the other auditory arteries. (See Internal Ear.) 3. The anterior cerebellar—or anterior inferior cerebellar artery, as it is some- imes called—arises from the basilar soon after its origin, passes outwards and lackwards across the pons, and then over the crus cerebelli to the front part of he under surface of the cerebellum. It anastomoses with the posterior inferior erebellar artery (fig. 340). 4. The superior cerebellar comes off from the basilar immediately behind its ifurcation into the posterior cerebral arteries. It courses outwards and backwards ver the pons, in a curve roughly corresponding to that of the posterior cerebral rtery, from which it is separated by the third cranial nerve; but, soon sinking ito the groove between the pons and the crus cerebri, it curves round the latter tructure on to the upper surface of the cerebellum, lying nearly parallel to the ourth nerve. Here it divides into two branches, an internal and external, (a) The nternal or superior vermiform branch courses backwards along the superior Vermiform process, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side, and at the posterior notch of the cerebellum with the inferior vermiform branch of the posterior hferior cerebellar artery, {h) The external or hemispheral branch runs outwards p the circumference of the cerebellum, anastomosing with the external branch of he inferior posterior cerebellar artery. Branches are given off from the main trunk of the superior cerebellar artery, r from its internal branch to the valve of Vieussens, the optic lobes, the pineal land, and the choroid plexus. 5. The posterior cerebral arteries are the two terminal branches into which the iasilar bifurcates at the upper border of the pons immediately behind the posterior lerforated space. Each artery runs at first outwards and a Httle forwards across he crus cerebri immediately in front of the third nerve, which separates it from he superior cerebellar artery. After receiving the posterior communicating artery, vhich runs backwards from the internal carotid, the posterior cerebral turns back- mrds on to the under surface of the cerebral hemisphere, where it breaks up into ranches for the supply of the temporo-sphenoidal and occipital lobes.