THE SHOULDER JOINT 237 The transverse humeral ligament (fig. 226) is so closely connected with the capsule of the shoulder that, although it is a proper ligament of the humerus, it jimay well be described here. It is a strong band of fibrous tissue, which extends between the two tuberosities, roofing in the bicipital canal. It is covered by a thin [expansion of the capsule. It is limited to the portion of the bone above the Une of the epiphysis. (C. Gordon Brodie, Journ. Anat. xxiv. 247.) The following muscles are in relation with the capsular ligament: above, the suprasjnnatus ; externally, the infraspinatus and teres minor ; below, the long head of the triceps ; internally, the tendon of the subscapular is. The deltoid covers the outer and upper surfaces of the joint, but is separated from the capsule by a bursa, and the tendons of the short rotator muscles. An upward slip from the pectoralis major joins the capsule below. Internally are the long tendon of the hice^js and the gieno-humeral ligament. Fig. 227.—Biceps Tendon, bifurcating and blending on each Side with THE Glenoid Fibro-cartilage. Tendon < with. The arterial supply is derived from the suprascapular, anterior and posterior ' circumflex, subscapular, dorsalis scapulae, and a branch from the second portion of the axillary artery. The nerve-supply is derived from the suprascapular, by branches in both fossaB ; and from the circumflex and subscapular nerves, j The movements of the shoulder joint consist of flexion, extension, adduction ! and abduction, rotation and circumduction. I Flexion is the swinging forwards, extension the swinging backwards, of the , humerus; abduction is the raising of the arm from, and adduction depression of I the arm to, the side. In flexion and extension the head of the humerus moves upon the centre of the glenoid fossa round an oblique line corresponding to the axis of the head and neck of the humerus, flexion being more free than extension, and in j extreme flexion the scapula follows the head of the humerus, so as to keep the i articular surfaces in apposition. In extension the scapula moves much less, if at all. j In abduction and adduction the scapula is fixed, and the humerus rolls up and I down upon the glenoid fossa ; during abduction the head descends until it projects [ beyond the lower edge of the glenoid cavity, and the great tuberosity impinges I against the arch of the acromion ; during adduction, the head of the humerus