891 CAVITY OF THE OBBIT lachrymal gland lies under the outer part of the roof of the orbit anteriorly. The orbital fat occupies the spaces between the orbital muscles, and is in greatest amount immediately behind the eyeball; it also exists between the muscles and the orbital walls in the anterior half of the cavity. Six muscles, viz. the four recti, the superior oblique, and the levator palpebrse superioris, arise at the apex of the orbit, and diverge as they pass forwards. The recti muscles—superior, inferior, external, and internal—run each near the corresponding orbital wall, but the superior is over- lapped in part by the levator palpebrae. The superior oblique lies about midway betweeen the superior and internal recti. A seventh muscle, the inferior oblique, has a short course entirely in the anterior part of the orbit, coming from its inner wall and passing beneath the globe between the termination of the inferior rectus and the orbital floor. The optic nerve with its sheaths passes from the optic Fig. 482.—Section through Contents of Eight Orbit 8-11 mm. behind the Eyeball, VIEWED FROM BEHIND. (After LangG.^i SUPRAORBITAL NERVE Supraorbital artery Levator palpetorse superioris muscle Superior 7^<Cim"^- rectus muscle NASO CILIAIt)^ V. Internal ['^^Vi^__ rectus muscle^ Iffijf^ V . Naso-front(U—^—— artery \>- OPTIC NERVE Ciliary artery ■ Central retinal artery Ciliary artery Inferior rectus muscle LACHRYMAL NER VE Lachrymal artery Lachrtnnal vein Ojihthalmic vein Cdiaiy artery External rectus muscle Ciliai y ai tery THIRD NER VE {BRANCH TO INFERIOR OBLIQUE MUSCLE) foramen to the back of the eyeball, surrounded by the orbital fat, and more imme- diately by a loose connective tissue. Among the contents of the cavity are also to be enumerated many vessels and nerves, and fibrous tissue septa, while its walls are clothed by periosteum (periorbita). The muscles of the orbit are seven in number, of which six are ocular, i.e. are inserted into the eyeball and rotate it in different directions. These ocular muscles are arranged in opponent pairs, viz. superior and inferior recti, superior and inferior obliques, external and internal recti. With the exception of the short inferior oblique, they all arise from the back of the orbit along with the seventh orbital muscle, the elevator of the upper lid. All these long muscles take their origin from the periosteum in the vicinity of the optic foramen. The four recti muscles arise from a fibrous ring which arches close over the upper and inner edge