895 CAVITY OF THE OBBIT an anterior and a posterior; the former continues a forward course, forming a complete funnel-shaped investment all round, passing ultimately to the eyelids and orbital margin—whilst the latter turns backwards, covering the hinder third of the globe. The anterior lamina is a well-marked membrane everywhere, but in certain situations it presents special bands of thickening, corresponding to the direct continuation forwards of the sheath of each rectus muscle. Above and below, this lamina spreads out in the form of two large membranes, which are finally applied to the deep surface of the palpebral fascia; the lower membrane constitutes what has been described as ' the suspensory ligament of the eyeball.' The upper mem- FiG. 485.—Vertical Section through the Eyeball and Orbit in the direction of THE Orbital Axis, with Closed Eyelids. (Semi-diagrammatic. After Schwalbe, modified to show fasciae.) Periorbita green; mnscle-fascia red ; Tenon's capsule yellow. SKIN OF LOWER LID LOWER TARSUS ijbebral fascia and ant ina of musele-fascia 0 icularis palpebrarum xtension of sheath of nfefir rectus to lower eyelid FORNIX CONJUNOTIV/E aferior oblique muscle, cut across Posterior lamina of — muscle-fascia GINAL SPACE CONTINUOUS WITH TENON'S SPACE OCCUPIED BY ORBITAL FAT, PRO- - S OF FASCIA SEPARATING THE ESANDENCLOSING BLOOD-VESSELS Inferior rectus SKIN OF UPPER LID UPPER TARSUS CORNEA Orbicularis palpebrarum UPPER RIM OF ORBIT, WITH Splitting of periorbita Upper or anterior insertion of levator palpebrae Superior palpebral mvxsele of Muller FORNIX CONJUNCTIV/E Connection between levator pal- pebrae and superior rectus, and fibres to conjunctiva PROCESS FROM PERIORBITA TO CAPSULE OF LACHRYMAL GLAND Superior rectus Levator palpebrae superioris Posterior lamina of musele-fascia lined by prolongation of Tenon's capsule — OPTIC NERVE brane requires a fuller description, as its distribution is modified by the presence of the levator palpebrae muscle. The upper part of the sheath of the superior rectus (along with the adjoining membrane on each side of it) passes to the deep surface of the levator, to which it closely adheres, and completely ensheaths this tendon by extending round its borders to its upper surface. The lower part of this levator-sheath is applied to the inferior surface of the deeper of the two divisions of the muscle [orhito-ioalpehral muscle of Sappey, superior palpebral muscle of Miiller), and is attached to the upper border of the tarsus of the upper lid, reaching laterally to the outer and inner angles of the orbit. The upper part of the sheath of the orbito-palpebralis muscle reaches to the middle of the palpebral fascia, and is mainly continued forw^ard between the muscle and the fascia to the anterior surface of the tarsus.