BBANGHES OF POPLITEAL 625 and across the front of the tibia with the inferior external articular. It supplies branches to the lower and inner part of the joint. {d) The inferior external articular (fig. 376) passes outwards above the head of the fibula, along the tendon of the popliteus muscle, beneath the external head of the gastrocnemius, and then under the tendon of the biceps, and between the long and short external lateral ligaments. Then winding to the front of the joint, it anasto- moses above with the superior external articular, below with the anterior tibial recurrent, and across the front of the tibia Avith the internal inferior articular. It also supplies branches to the outer and lower part of the joint. Fig. 376.—The Anastomosis about the Knee Joint. (S emi - diagrammatic.) ■Descending branch of external circumflex artery 'Superior external articular artery passing through external inter- muscular septum EXTERNAL CONDYLE -Long external lateral ligament Inferior external articular artery Anterior tibial recurrent artery .Anterior tibial artery (e) The azygos articular arises from the deep surface of the popliteal artery, and passes, with the articular branch of the obturator nerve, through the posterior hgament, directly into the knee joint, where it supplies the crucial ligaments, and the hgamenta mucosa and alaria. It anastomoses with the intrinsic branches of the other articular arteries. (4) The terminal branches of the popliteal are the posterior and anterior tibial arteries. The former appears to be a direct continuation of the vessel, and passes down the back of the leg to the inner ankle, where, on entering the sole of the foot, it divides into the internal and external plantar. The anterior tibial turns forwards, and, passing through the interosseous membrane, descends along the front of the leg, and ends, under the name of the dorsal artery of the foot, by anastomosing, through the first interosseous space, with the external plantar artery in the sole.