THE KNEE JOINT 267 consist of two articulations with a common synovial membrane—the patello- femoral and the tibio-femoral, the latter being double. It is composed of the condyles and trochlear surface of the femur, the tuberosities of the tibia, and the patella, united by the following ligaments, which may be divided into an external and internal set :— The fibrous expansion of the extensor tendons consists (1) of a central portion, densely thick and strong, an inch and a half (3-7 cm.) broad, which is inserted into the anterior two-thirds of the upper border of the patella, many of its superficial fibres passing over the subcutaneous surface of the bone into the ligamentum patellae ; (2) of two lateral portions thinner, but strong. The lateral portions are inserted into the patella along its upper border on either side of the central portion and also into its lateral borders, nearer the anterior than the posterior surface, as low down as the attachment of the ligamentum patellae ; passing thence along the sides of the ligamentum patellae to the tibia, they are attached to the oblique lines which extend laterally from the tubercle to the inner and outer tuberosities, and reach as far as the internal and external lateral ligaments. On the outer side the fibres blend with the ilio-tibial band of the fascia lata, and on the inner they extend below the oblique line to blend with the periosteum of the shaft. Thus there is a large hood spread over the whole of the front of the joint, investing the patella, and reaching from the sides of the ligamentum patella3 to the lateral ligaments, attached below to the tibia, and separated everywhere from the synovial membrane by a layer of fatty tissue. The ligamentum patellae (fig. 247) is simply the continuation of the central portion of the conjoined tendon, some fibres of which are prolonged over the front of the patella into the ligament. It is an extremely strong, flat band, attached above to the lower border of the patella ; below, it is fixed to the lower part of the tubercle and upper part of the crest of the tibia, somewhat obliquely, being pro- ' longed downwards further on the outer side, so that this border is fully an inch longer than the inner which measures two inches-and a half (3'7 cm.) in length. Behind, it is in contact with a mass of fat which separates it from the synovial I membrane, and a small bursa which intervenes between it and the upper part of the j tubercle of the tibia. In front, a large bursa separates it from the subcutaneous tissue, and laterally it is continuous with the fibrous expansion of the extensors. The internal lateral ligament (fig. 245) is a strong, flat band, which extends from the depression on the tubercle on the inner side of the internal condyle of the femur, to the inner border and internal surface of the shaft of the tibia, an inch and a half (3*7 cm.) below the tuberosity. It is three inches and a half (8'7 cm.) I long, well defined anteriorly, where it blends with the expansion of the conjoined extensor tendons; but not so well defined posteriorly, where it merges into the posterior ligament. Some of the lower fibres blend with the descending portion of I the semimemhranosiLS tendon. Its deep surface is firmly adherent to the edge of I the internal semilunar cartilage and coronary ligament, while part of the semi- I memhranosus tendon and inferior internal articular vessels and nerve pass between I it and the bone. Superficially, a bursa separates it from the tendons of the gracilis I and semitendinosus muscles and from the aponeurosis of the sartorius muscle. EXTEKNAL Internal (1) Fibrous expansion of the extensors. (2) Capsular or anterior ligament. (3) Posterior ligament. (4) External lateral. (5) Internal lateral. (6) Ligamentum patellae. Anterior crucial. Posterior crucial. Internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. External semilunar fibro-cartilage. Coronary. Transverse.