1055 THE BLADDEB and lateral surfaces meet above at the urachus, and converge below towards the base of the prostate—the posterior wall sometimes approaching the urethral orifice almost lin a vertical direction, as in Braune's section (plate 2), or curving first downwards, and then forwards, as in fig. 617; and in old subjects this curve may be so exagge- rated that a kind of pouch is formed behind the internal meatus. The antero-inferior surface looks downwards and forwards towards the symphysis. It is uncovered by peritoneum, but has a strong investment of recto-vesical fascia, and is separated from ohe pubic bones and anterior attachments of the obturatores interni and levatores ini by a space known as the cavum Betzii, which contains a variable quantity of oose fat continuous with the pelvic and abdominal subperitoneal tissue. Each jiateral surface is covered by peritoneum down to the level of a line extending from phe urachus backwards to a point below the summit of the vesicula seminalis, about jin inch above the base of the prostate. Below this level it is separated from the evatores ani by subperitoneal tissue, which usually bears much fat in its meshes iiid ensheaths the vesical vessels and nerves ; and it is crossed by the vas deferens, ind at the point of peritoneal reflexion by the obliterated hypogastric artery. The [ueter pierces the junction of the posterior and lateral surfaces about two inches [ |,bove the prostate, the vas running between it and the vesical wall. External to hese structures the lateral wall is in relation to the levator ani and obturator internus. Phe posterior surface may be divided into two portions, an upper covered by the )eritoneum of the recto-vesical or utero-vesical pouch, a lower in direct contact with Ihe anterior wall of the rectum, and the lower part of the vasa deferentia and vesiculae keminales. The distance of the recto-vesical cul-de-sac of peritoneum from the !)rostate is very variable, but usually ranges between half an inch and one inch, and nay be increased to two inches by distension of the bladder. It is, however, very small n the child. The ureters where they lie at the outer limits of this surface are near 0 though not in contact with the rectum, and a calculus in the lower end of the uinary tube might be felt by an exploration from within the bowel. In the lower )ortion of the posterior wall in the male is a triangular space, the sides of which ;.re formed by the diverging vasa deferentia, the base by the line of reflexion of he recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum, and the apex by the meeting of the ejacula- ory ducts at the summit of the prostate. It was formerly selected as the position or the introduction of a trocar through the rectum into the bladder in cases of etention of urine. In the female the posterior surface is adherent below to the lervix uteri and upper part of the anterior wall of the vagina, but is separated hove from the body of the uterus by a shallow utero-vesical pouch of peritoneum. The superior surface is entirely covered with peritoneum. It looks almost irectly upwards into the abdominal cavity, and lies in contact with the small atestines, and sometimes with a portion of the sigmoid flexure behind these. Effects of distension.—When the bladder becomes excessively full it rises above he level of the symphysis, and in certain chronic conditions of retention may even Qount as high as the umbilicus. During the process of distension the anterior wall arries upwards the peritoneal fold reflected on to its upper surface. This elevation is, owever, variable and limited in extent; at its maximum it seldom exceeds two inches, nid m some instances fails even to pass the upper border of the symphysis, hence [here is some danger in tapping the bladder above the pubes unless the part is exposed |y a careful dissection. In recent years Garson and Pietersen have demonstrated |hat the introduction into the rectum of a bag of suitable dimensions filled with air |r water pushes forward the expanded viscus and may still further increase the |vailable space for surgical operation, but it does not ensure the elevation of the leritoneal fold above the symphysis. The relation of the internal urinary meatus to the pelvic wall has become a nbject of interest since the revival of suprapubic operations upon the bladder. As rule it lies at some point opposite the upper half of the symphysis, but in great