481 GENIO-HYO-GLOSS US~HYO-GLOSS US titrinsic muscles will be described later ; the former or extrinsic muscles constitute , group which is nearly related to those which have been just described. They ionsist of four muscles—viz. the genio-hyo-glossus, the hyo-giossus, the stylo- 'iossus, and palato-glossus. 1. GENIO-HYO-GLOSSUS The genio-hyo-glossus—named from its attachment to the chin (yevecov), hyoid [one, and tongue (yAcoo-o-a), is a flat sheet forming the quadrant or, more correctly, he sector of a circle, and separated from its fellow by a thin stratum of connective issue, the septum of the tongue. Origin.—The upper genial tubercle. Insertion.—(1) The whole length of the tongue in the submucous tissue just xternal to the median plane, from the ti]3 along the dorsum to the root of the bngue; (2) the upper part of the upper and anterior surface of the body of the ! yoid bone ; (3) by a few fibres into the side of the pharynx. ' Structure.—Its origin is by a short tendon, from which its fleshy fibres diverge a a fan-shaped sheet to their extensive insertion. I Nerve-supply.—The hypoglossal, by filaments which enter its outer surface. Action.—(1) To draw downwards and forwards the mesial portion of the tongue |o as to make its dorsum concave upwards in a transverse direction; (2) by its interior fibres to draw back the tip of the protruded tongue ; (3) by fibres which 'ass to the back part of the dorsum of the tongue to draw it forwards, and protrude he tongue ; (4) by its lowest fibres to draw upwards and forwards the hyoid bone, nd so help the genio-hyoid and anterior belly of the digastric in raising the bngue ; (5) acting from below, its hyoid portion will help in depressing the lower Relations.—Externally, the inferior lingualis and hyo-glossus muscles, the anine artery, the terminal branches of the hypoglossal and lingual gustatory lerves, the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, the sublingual gland, and Vharton's duct; internally, the fellow muscle and septum linguae ; along its lower 'lorder, the genio-hyoid muscle. I 2. HYO-GLOSSUS I The hyo-glossus—named from its attachments to the hyoid bone and tongue [yAwo-o-a)—is a thin square sheet. I Origin.—(1) From the front of the hyoid bone near the upper border of the outer bird of its body ; (2) from the upper border of all its great cornu ; (8) by a small 'lip from the lesser cornu. Insertion.—The submucous tissue and adjacent muscular mass of the posterior lalf of the tongue external to the preceding. Structure.—The fleshy fibres arise directly from the bone in a thin sheet, and [scend nearly parallel to one another. The anterior fibres, however, diverge slightly jDrwards, and they all, having reached the upper surface of the sides of the tongue, end round inwards, interlacing with the fibres of the palato-glossus and superficial mgualis to form a submucous cover to the tongue. Those which arise from the lesser cornu are often described as a distinct jauscle, the chondro-glossus, which is separated from the rest of the muscle by jome bundles which pass from the lower part of the genio-hyo-giossus to the juperior constrictor. I Nerve-supply.—The hypoglossal nerve, which sends filaments into its outer lurface. A II