490 THE MUSCLES as the coraco-bracliialis superior vel brevis. [For ^giire, see'Wood, Journ. of Anat. andl Fhys. vol. i. p. 47.] The insertion of this muscle is indicated in fig. 128. The rhombo-atloideus arises from the sixth and seventh cervical and first thoracic spinous processes, superficial to the serratus posticus superior. It is inserted into the transverse process of the atlas. [See Macalister, Proc. Boy. Irish Academy, vol. ix. plate v.] The rectus capitis anticus medius arises from the middle of the anterior surface of the body of the axis near its lower border by means of a tendon. As it passes vertically: upwards, it bifurcates, each fieshy belly being inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone immediately in front of the foramen magnum, posterior to the insertion of the rectus capitis anticus major, and internal to that of the rectus capitis anticus minor. [Walsham, Joiirn. of Anat. and Phys. vol. xviii. p. 461.] The supraclavicularis arises by a slender tendon from the upper border of the manu- brium of the sternum. It passes outwards, above the sterno-clavicular joint, behind the: sterno-mastoid muscle, to be inserted into the clavicle. When present in both sides, the| muscle sometimes fuses in the middle line. | The sternalis muscle (rectus sternalis) arises from the sheath of the rectus abdominis,! or from the tissues covering the fifth and sixth costal cartilages. : The direction of the fibres is very variable. In some cases they are directed obliquely outwards ; in others, they pass vertically upwards to be inserted into the fascia I covering the origin of the sterno-mastoid, or into the aponem-osis of the pectoralis major, | or into the upper jmrt of the manubrium of the sternum. A sternalis may be present on ■ each side. In some instances they are entirely muscular; in others, furnished with j terminal tendons. [See Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vols. i. p. 246, xviii. p. 208, xix. i p. 311.] The tibio-fascialis anticus arises from the lower third of the anterior border of the^ tibia. It is inserted into the annular ligament and deep fascia. \ The transversus nuckae is a muscular fasciculus arising from the external occipital protuberance superficial to the trapezius. It is inserted into the aponeurosis of the sterno-mastoid. ' The triticeo-glossus arises from the cartilago triticea in the thyro-hyoid ligament. ! It is inserted into the side of the tongue, blending with the posterior fibres of the • hyo-glossus. The occipito-scapular arises from the occipital bone on a level with the splenius capitis under cover of the trapezius. It passes downwards to be inserted into the posterior' border of the scapula at the base of the spine. [For figure, see AVood, Proc. Boy. Sac. vol. XV. p. 521.]