THE METATABSUS 179 ! anterior, triangular in shape, articulates with the base of the third metatarsal. The internal surface has a large facet, extending along the posterior border, for the middle cuneiform ; and on the anterior border, a narrow irregular facet for the outer border of the base of the second metatarsal; and occasionally a small facet at the anterior inferior angle for the middle cuneiform. The outer surface has a broad distinctive facet, near its posterior superior angle, for the cuboid; and at the anterior superior angle there is usually a facet for the inner side of the base of the fourth metatarsal. Fig. 182.—The Left External Cuneiform. (Internal surface.) FOR MIDDLE CUNEIFORM — FOR SCAPHOID ^- THE CIRCULAR ANGLE IS FOR Fig. 183.—The Left External Cuneiform. (External surface.) FOR FOURTH METATARSAL FOR THIRD METATARSAL — FOR CUBOID Articulations.—With the middle cuneiform, the scaphoid, the cuboid, and the second, third and fourth metatarsals. Muscles.—The flexor brevis hallucis and a slip from the tibiahs posticus. Ossification.—A single nucleus appears in the course of the first year. The three cuneiform bones rest posteriorly against the scaphoid ; and as they are of unequal length, the middle being the smallest, it follows that when the bones are placed in their natural positions a deep gap or recess is formed in front. Into this recess the base of the second metatarsal is received, thus explaining the small facets at the anterior superior angles of the internal and external cuneiforms. THE METATABSUS The metatarsus consists of five bones, numbered one to five, beginning at the hallux. Each metatarsal presents a proximal portion termed the base, and a distal end or head. The shaft of each bone, with the exception of the first, is prismatic ; the base of the prism is directed upwards, and the narrow edge downwards. The shaft tapers gradually from the base to the head and is slightly bowed, the concavity being on the plantar aspect. • The base is prismatic : its terminal surface is faceted for articulation with the tarsus, and the adjacent borders of the base present small facets, in most cases for adjacent metatarsals. The head is semicircular, forming a convex articular surface for the base of the first phalanx. The compressed sides of the head present near their centres a depression surmounted by a prominent tubercle. The plantar surface is deeply N 2