889 EXAMINATION OF THE EYEBALL Veins.—The venous blood from almost the whole uveal tract (choroid, ciliary processes and iris, and part of the ciliary muscle) ultimately leaves the eyeball by (1) the venae vorticosse, which have been already noticed in describing an antero- posterior section through the globe. One large vein passes backwards from each vortex, piercing the sclerotic obliquely ; it is joined by small episcleral veins when outside the globe. (2) The anterior ciliary veins commence by the junction of a few small veins of the ciliary muscle; they pass outwards through the sclerotic near the corneal border, receiving blood from the veins in connection with Schlemm's canal, and afterwards from episcleral and conjunctival veins, and from the marginal corneal plexus. Finally they join the veins running in the recti muscles. Lymphatic system of the eyeball.—Apart from those in the conjunctiva there are no lymphatic vessels in the eyeball, but the fluid is contained in s^jaces of various sizes. These are usually divided into an anterior and posterior set. Fig. 480.—The Lymphatics of the Eyeball. (Diagrammatic. After Fuclis.) 1. Anteriorly, we have the anterior and posterior aqueous chambers, which communicate freely through the pupil. The aqueous humour is secreted in the posterior of these chambers, from the vessels of the ciliary body and posterior surface of the iris (see also page 884). The stream passes mainly forwards through the pupil into the anterior aqueous chamber, whence it escapes slowly by passing through the spaces of Fontana into Schlemm's canal, and thence into the anterior ciliary veins. Part of the lymph-stream passes from the posterior aqueous chamber backwards into the canal of Petit, out of which fluid can pass into the lens substance, or diffuse itself into the front of the vitreous. In the cornea the lymph travels in the spaces already mentioned as existing between the fibre-bundles, and in the nerve-channels, and at the periphery of the cornea it flows off into the lymphatic vessels of the conjunctiva.