THE BADIUS 137 styloid process : this is concave to receive the superior surface of the scaphoid bone. The inner side of the lower end presents the sigmoid cavity for the recep- tion of the rounded margin of the head of the ulna. The anterior surface is a raised ridge to which the anterior ligament of the wrist-joint is attached. The outer surface is represented by the styloid process ; to its base the supinator longus is inserted, and the tip serves for the attachment of the external lateral ligament of the wrist. It is also marked by a shallow furrow for the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarin and extensor iwimi internocUi ijollicis. The posterior surface is convex, and marked by two prominent ridges separating three furrows. The posterior annular ligament is attached to these ridges, to the styloid process, and to the inner margin, thus forming with the bone a series of tunnels. The outermost is broad, shallow, and frequently subdivided by a low ridge. The outer subdivision is for the extensor carin raclialis longior, the inner for the extensor carpi radialis hrevior. The middle groove is narrow and deep for the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis. The innermost is shallow and transmits the extensor indicis and the extensor communis digitoru7n which, overlies the indicis. When the radius and ulna are articulated, an additional groove is formed for the extensor minimi digiti. Muscles.—The following muscles are attached to the radius :— Biceps. Pronator quadratus. Supinator brevis. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Supinator longus. Extensor primi internodii polhcis. Pronator radii teres. Flexor longus pollicis. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Ligaments:— Oblique ligament. Posterior annular. Interosseous membrane. External lateral of wrist. Anterior radio-ulnar. Interarticular fibro-cartilage of wrist. Posterior radio-ulnar. Anterior radio-carpal. Posterior radio-carpal. Blood-supply.—The nutrient artery is derived from the anterior interosseous trunk ; it enters the shaft near the middle of the anterior surface, and runs towards the proximal end of the bone. The head of the bone is supplied by the radial recur- rent and interosseous recurrent arteries. The lower end is supplied by the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries and numerous twigs from the carpal arches. Ossification.—The radius is ossified by one primary and two secondary centres. The shaft begins to ossify at the eighth week of embryonic life. The nucleus for the lower end appears in the second year, whilst that for the upper end is deposited in the fifth year. The head ankyloses with the shaft at the seventeenth year, but consolidation is delayed at the lower end until the twentieth year. THE HAND The skeleton of the hand consists of three parts—the carpus, metacarpus, and phalanges. THE CARPUS The carpus contains eight bones, arranged in two rows, four bones in each ! row. Enumerated from the radial to the ulnar side, the bones of the proximal row i are, the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, and pisiform ; those of the distal row, the ' trapezium, trapezoid, magnum, and unciform.