172 THE SKELETON Externally, this groove is limited by a prominent tubercle, which affords attachment to the posterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle. The neck is the constricted portion of the bone, and is continuous posteriorly with the body of the astragalus. Superiorly, the neck is rough, and has numerous foramina for blood-vessels. Inferiorly, it presents a deep groove, directed from behind forwards and outwards. When the astragalus is articulated with the calcaneum, this furrow is converted into a canal in which is lodged the calcaneo- astragaloid (interosseous) ligament. The inner edge of this furrow is limitedl by an articular facet, which runs forward to become continuous with the facet on| the head of the bone, and, like the articular surface of the sustentaculum tali of the calcaneum on which it glides, is sometimes divided. The head of the astragalus is furnished anteriorly with an ovoid facet, whichl is received by the posterior surface of the scaphoid. On the inner and lower part, at the spot where the sustentacular facet becomes confluent with that on the head, there is a smaller facet separated by a ridge : this plays upon the calcaneo-scaphoid or spring ligament. Fig. 170.—The Left Astragalus. (Plantar view.) HEAD GROOVE FOR THE FLEXOR LONGUS HALLUCIS FOR CALCANEUM FOR THE SUSTENTACULUM TALI FOR THE CALCANEO-ASTRAGALOID (OR THE SPRING) LIGAMENT, FOR SCAPHOID The OS trigonum.—Occasionally the small portion of the astragalus posterio to the trochlear surface containing the groove which lodges the flexor longu. hallucis tendon is separate from the rest of the astragalus, and is known as thi OS trigonum, or secondary astragalus (fig. 171). Articulations.—The astragalus articulates with four bones, the tibia, fibula scaphoid, and calcaneum ; and presents seven articular facets ; and when the face: for the sustentaculum tali is divided, as is so often the case, the articular surface; are increased to eight. Sometimes it presents a facet on the outer margin of it; head for the cuboid, thus increasing the articular surfaces to nine. i Ligaments:— Internal lateral ligament (deltoid). External lateral ligament. Astragalo-scaphoid. Calcaneo-astragaloid (interosseous).! External calcaneo-astragaloid. Posterior calcaneo-astragaloid. it Blood-supply.—The astragalus is supplied by the dorsalis pedis artery and tarsal branch. Ossification.—The astragalus is ossified from one, occasionally from two, nucle The principal centre for this bone appears in the middle of the cartilaginous astra