THE ABTICULATIONS 294 The arteries come from the digital and interosseous branches ; and the nerves from the cutaneous digital, or from small twigs of the nerves to the interossei muscles. The movements permitted are : flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, and circumduction. Flexion is more free than extension, and is limited by the extensor tendons andi dorsal ligaments ; extension is limited by the flexor tendons, the plantar fibres of the lateral ligaments, and the sesamoid plates. The lateral motion is possible from the shape of the bony surfaces, but is very limited, being most marked in the great toe. It is limited by the lateral ligaments and sesamoid plates. 9. THE INTEEPHALANGEAL JOINTS Class.—Diarthrosis. Subdivision.—Ginglymus. The articulations between the first and second, and second and third phalanges of the toes are similar to those of the fingers, with this important difference,! that the bones are smaller and the joints, especially between the second and third phalanges, are often ankylosed. The ligaments which unite them are :— Two lateral. Dorsal. Glenoid ligament. The two lateral ligaments are well marked, and pass on each side of the joints from a little rough depression on the head of the proximal, to a rough border on the side of the base of the distal phalanx of the joint. The dorsal ligament is thin and membranous, and extends across the joint from one lateral ligament to the other beneath the extensor tendon, with the deep' surface of which it is connected, and by which it is strengthened. The glenoid ligament covers in the joint on the plantar surface. It is a fibro- cartilaginous plate, connected at the sides with the lateral ligaments, and with thej bones by short ligamentous fibres ; the plantar surface is smooth, and grooved for the flexor tendons. The arteries and nerves are derived from the corresponding digital branches. The only movements permitted at these joints are flexion and extension. At the interphalangeal joint of the great toe there is very frequently a small sesamoid bone which plays on the plantar surface of the first phalanx, in the same] way as the sesamoid bones of the metatarso-phalangeal joint play upon the plantar surface of the head of the metatarsal bone. Morpliology of Ligaments The various ligaments of the human body have, in very many instances, been evolved as the result of secondary changes in muscles adjacent to joints. In a few instances ligaments represent the degenerate remnants of cartilaginous and bony elements. Capsular ligaments are in most joints derived from the periosteum, but they may be strengthened by the incorporation of tendons detached from adjacent muscles. Muscles arising from, or inserted into bones in the immediate vicinity of a joint tendj to become metamorphosed into tendon near their attachments, and a comprehensive study of myology in low vertebrate forms indicates that there is associated with this tissue- change a tendency for the muscle to alter its point of attachment; hence a muscle origin- ally inserted below a joint may eventually come to have its insertion above the joint. In| the same way, a muscle arising above a joint may, as a result of altered environment,! shift its origin to some point below the joint. To this change of position the term migra-i tion of muscles has been applied. In many instances a portion of the muscle equivalent to the distance between the original and the acquired attachment persists as a fibrous band and fulfils the function of a ligament. This is well seen in the knee joint, where the internal lateral ligament is derived from the adductor magnus, this muscle having shifted its insertion from the tibia to the femm-. In the same way the external lateral