1138 SURGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHICAL ANATOMY The left innominate vein crosses behind the sternum just below its upper bordei Next come the great primary branches of the aortic arch. Deeper still is th trachea, dividing into its two bronchi opposite to the junction of the first an second bones of the sternum. Deepest of all is the oesophagus. About one inc from the upper border of the sternum is the highest part of the aortic arch, lyin on the bifurcation of the trachea. (Holden.) Outline of the lungs. Their relation to the chest-wall.—The apex of the lun rises about an inch and a half (from half an inch to an inch and three-quarters above the first rib into the base of the posterior triangle lying behind the inner en of the clavicle, the sterno-mastoid, and the anterior scalene, covered by the pleui and deep cervical fascia, and having the subclavian artery arching over it. Froi the apices the thin anterior borders converge inwards behind the sterno-claviculg: joints and the first piece of the sternum to the junction of this with the secon( Fig. 685.—Outline of the Heart, its Valves, and the Lungs (shaded). (Holden. almost meeting at this point. Thence the two borders descend parallel and close each other (the right sometimes passing just beyond the middle line), and th covering over the heart and large vessels, to a point midway between the four pair of costal cartilages, where they diverge, but not to an equal degree. The rig descends in an almost straight line as far as the sixth chondro-sternal joint. T. left is deeply notched (incisura cardiaca). The lower borders of the lung pass dow' wards and outwards across the sides of the chest from the sixth chondro-sterH joint to the tenth thoracic spine. In the nipple-line the lung reaches the sixth ri i in the posterior fold of the axilla, the eighth, and opposite the angle of the scapn (the arms being close to the sides) the tenth rib. Thus, to map out the lung, a li: should be drawn from the apex, a point about an inch and a half above the fii | rib, a little outside the sterno-mastoid muscle, obliquely inwards, behind the stern | clavicular joint, to near the centre of the junction of the first and second bones ; the sternum. Thence, on each side, a line should be drawn slightly convex as fi i