849 BRANCHES OF LUMBAB PLEXUS (2) The ilio-inguinal nerve arises from the first lumbar nerve in common with the iho-hypogastric, and accompanies the last-named nerve across the quadratus lumbormn, but at a lower level. It then passes obliquely across the upper part of the iliacus and pierces the transversalis muscle. It follows the curve of the crest of the ilium in company with the ilio-hypogastric, communicating with that nerve in a plexiform manner. It pierces the inferior oblique a little in front of the anterior superior spine of the ilium, and runs forwards under cover of the aponeurosis of the external oblique immediately above Poupart's ligament, and reaches the external abdominal ring. It then traverses the ring and divides into its terminal branches, which are distributed to the skin covering the upper part of the adductor longus, the integuments of the scrotum in the male, and of the labium majus in the female. (3) The genito-crural nerve arises from the first and second lumbar nerve by two roots which pass forwards and downwards through the fibres of the psoas, and unite to form a single trunk. The nerve then appears on the surface of the psoas close to the vertebral column, and runs downwards under cover of the peritoneum to reach the outer side of the external iliac artery, where it divides into a genital and a crural branch. {a) The genital branch accompanies the spermatic vessels through the inguinal canal, and, emerging from the external abdominal ring, pierces the internal spermatic fascia, and is distributed to the cremaster muscle. In the female this branch is rudimentary and accompanies the round ligament. ih) The crural branch is carried downwards in front of the external iliac and femoral artery into the external compartment of the femoral sheath. It pierces the femoral sheath and becomes subcutaneous about two inches below Poupart's ligament by piercing the fascia lata. It is distributed to the skin covering the upper and central part of the anterior aspect of the thigh. (4) The obturator nerve arises from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, and in the majority of cases receives an additional root from the second. It passes between the psoas muscle and the body of the fifth lumbar vertebra. It then runs down- wards and forwards to reach the upper margin of the thyroid foramen. In this part of its course it runs parallel to and a little below the brim of the pelvis, and is placed in the extra-peritoneal fat between the peritoneum and the parietal pelvic fascia. It is accompanied by the obturator vessels which are placed below it. The nerve then passes through the deficiency in the obturator membrane, and divides I into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. I (a) The anterior branch passes across the upper border of the obturator externus, and is directed downwards and inwards between the pectineus and 1 adductor brevis, and divides into the following branches :—(i) A twig for the hip joint; (ii) a branch for the adductor longus ; (iii) a branch to supply the adductor brevis ; (iv) a branch for the gracilis ; (v) in rare cases, a twig for the pectineus ; j (vi) a cutaneous branch. The cutaneous branch becomes superficial by passing between the adductor longus and adductor brevis, and is then directed along the ! posterior border of the sartorius, where it communicates with twigs from the long I saphenous and from the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous to form the I subsartorial plexus. I {h) The posterior branch gives off branches to supply the hip joint and the obturator externus, and then pierces the upper part of that muscle, and reaches the interval between the adductor brevis and adductor magnus. It runs downwards on the anterior surface of the latter muscle, supplying it with twigs, and terminates in an articular twig, the geniculate branch, which is distributed to the hip joint, (i) The twig to the hip joint enters the acetabulum by passing through the cotyloid notch. It ramifies in the fat occupying the floor of the acetabulum and in the adjacent synovial membrane, (ii) The branch to the obturator externus pierces 3 1