MA SSETEB—TEMPOBAL 469 1. MASSETER I The masseter (fig. 311)—named from the Greek word /xao-o-ao/^at to chew—is a [strong quadrate sheet, consisting of two layers. E Origin.—The superficial layer, from the lower border of the malar bone, and j the lower border of the anterior two-thirds of the zygomatic arch; the deep layer, from I the lower border of the posterior third of the zygomatic arch, and the whole of its ! inner sm'face. ' Insertion.—Superficial layer, into the lower half of the outer surface of the j ramus of the mandible ; the deep layer, partly with the superficial layer, and partly into the upper half of the outer surface of the ramus of the mandible. Structure.—The origin and insertion are by tendinous bands intermingled in multipenniform fashion with fleshy fibres. The fibres of the superficial sheet are 'directed obliquely downwards and backwards; those of the deep sheet almost Svertically dow^nwards, and they are much shorter than the superficial fibres. The two sheets blend closely in front, but are separate behind, where the muscle forms ,a sort of pocket closed above at the origin and below at the insertion, as well as in I front, but open behind. Nerve-supply.—The masseteric branch of the motor division of the inferior imaxillary nerve, which enters the deep surface of the muscle just below the zygoma. I Action.—To close the jaw, and by its superficial sheet to draw it slightly forwards. In closing the jaw it acts with less mechanical disadvantage than is jusual with muscles. When the pressure to be overcome is exerted upon the back teeth, the arm of the lever upon which the power acts is almost as long as that which intervenes between these teeth and the fulcrum. This fulcrum is not at the temporo-maxillary joint, but at a point below the neck of the mandible, cor- responding very nearly to the lower attachment of the internal lateral ligament. Moreover, the resultant force of the muscle, acting as it does upwards and forwards, is perpendicular to the lever, which may be roughly described as a bar extending downwards and forwards from the neck of the mandible to the point of the chin. Relations.—Superficially, the parotid gland and its duct, the platysma tnyoides, the risorius and the masseteric fascia, the transverse facial vessels, the facial vein, the upper and lower divisions of the facial nerve ; deeply, the buccal :at-pad which separates it from the buccinator, a small part of the temporal muscle, md the ramus of the mandible. 2. THE TEMPORAL MUSCLE The temporal muscle—named from its attachment to the iQm])\.Q {=tempus)—is |i thick, somewhat triangular sheet; more correctly it may be described as forming bhe quadrant of a circle. Origin.—(1) The whole of the temporal fossa, from the lower ridge of that lame to the pterygoid ridge, with the exception of a small part close to the outer ivall of the orbit, which is occupied by fat; (2) the inner surface of the temporal fascia down to its lower attachment to the zygomatic process, from the inner surface of which some of its fibres also sometimes arise. Insertion.—The point, posterior border, and the whole of the inner surface of 'he coronoid process of the mandible, down to the last molar tooth. Structure.—The bones of the temporal fossa and the temporal fascia form a oouch, open downwards, from which the fleshy fibres of the muscle converge,