BEGTUS CAPITIS ANTIC US MAJOR AND MINOB Structure—Arising- partly directly from the bone, and partly by a short apo- Isurosis which covers the outer and posterior part of the origin, its fleshy fibres ')nverge and are inserted by three short tendons. Nerve-supply.— Small filaments which come from the lower three cervical 3rves at their points of emergence, and, after passing through the scalenus iiedius, enter the front surface of the muscle. Action.—When the rib is fixed, to flex the lower part of the neck laterally, and, }ting from above, to raise the second rib, especially in forced inspiration. Relations.—In front lies the scalenus medius ; behind, the levator anguli 'sapulae. Variations of the scaleni.--The scalenus posticus may be absent. The scalenus medius lay arise as low as the third rib. A portion of the scalenus anticus may be separate om the rest, and pass behind the subclavian artery. Itoer Group ; The inner or 2^TeveTtebral grotip consists of the greater and lesser rectus capitis iticus and the longus colli. I 1. EECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MAJOR The rectus capitis anticus major—named from its direction, position, and ze—is a thick, irregular, quadrilateral sheet. ji Origin.—The front of the anterior tubercles of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth l^rvical vertebrae. Insertion.—A transverse impression upon the under surface of the basilar rocess of the occipital bone, extending from just behind the pharyngeal tubercle it wards and somewhat forwards. Structure.—Arising by four tendinous teeth, the parallel fleshy fibres run pwards and inwards to be inserted directly upon the occipital bone. An [[Complete tendinous intersection crosses its anterior surface. Nerve-supply.—Internal branches from the first and second cervical nerves iter the upper part of its front surface. Action.—To flex the head, and slightly to rotate it to the same side. Helations.—In front, the internal and common carotid artery, the internal igular vein, the pneumogastric and sympathetic nerves, and the upper part of ke pharynx; behind, the rectus capitis anticus minor, and part of the longus l)lli. I 2. RECTUS CAPITIS ANTICUS MINOR I The rectus capitis anticus minor—named from its direction, position, and size }-is thick and ribbon-shaped, and continues the series of the anterior intertrans- ^rsales. Origin.—The upper surface of the lateral mass of the atlas in front of the 'ticular process. Insertion.—The under surface of the basilar portion of the occipital bone in out of the foramen magnum, but not as far inwards as the preceding muscle. Structure.—Parallel or slightly divergent fleshy fibres which run upwards and wards. Nerve-supply.—The first cervical nerve, which sends a filament to its front jirface. Action.—To flex the head.