THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 854 COCCYGEAL PLEXUS The anterior primary division of the fifth sacral nerve divides into ascending and descending branches. The ascending branch unites with the descending branch of the fourth sacral. The descending branch joins the coccygeal nerve. In this manner two small Ioo^ds are formed : these loops constitute the coccygeal plexus. Anterior and posterior branches are given off by the plexus. The anterior branches join the hypogastric plexus (Testut). The posterior branches pierce the j coccygeus muscle, and are distributed to the skin covering the posterior surface of j the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve gives a twig to the coccygeus and (according to i Testut) gives off a branch which pierces the great sacro-sciatic ligament and ends | in the lower fibres of the gluteus maximus. j I I SACRAL PLEXUS i ! The sacral plexus, with the exception of the roots of the lumbo-sacral cord, is | situated in the pelvis, behind the parietal pelvic fascia. It lies, for the most part, , on the pyriformis, the fibres of that muscle often interlacing with the roots of the i plexus. It is formed as follows : a part of the fourth lumbar joins the fifth lumbar j to form the lumbo-sacral cord ; this cord is then joined by the first, second, and \ third sacral nerves to form a great flattened band. This band is directed outwards and downwards towards the lower margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and, on crossing that margin, is no longer called the sacral plexus, but takes the name : of the great sciatic nerve. A part of the fourth sacral nerve is joined by branches < from the second and third sacral nerves to form a second or lower band of relatively small size, Avhich ends in the pudic nerve. Several branches, to be presently enumerated, spring from the plexus; but by far the larger part of the plexus is directly continued into the great sciatic and pudic nerves. The plexus is, therefore, more condensed and more simple in its formation than any other plexus in the body. The two constituents of the lumbo-sacral cord unite to form that structure on, or a little below, the brim of the pelvis. The plexus has the following important vascular relations : the internal iliac vessels are placed a little in front of its upper part; the gluteal artery passes between the lumbo-sacral cord and the first sacral nerve ; the sciatic artery passes through the lower part of the plexus (fig. 466). It has been shown (Paterson) that the anterior primary divisions of the lower four lumbar and the upper two sacral nerves divide into anterior and posterior parts. The branches derived fi-om the anterior parts (lightly shaded in fig. 465) always cross in front of the posterior parts and unite to form trunks (e.g. obturator, internal popliteal), which are distributed to what is morphologically the anterior aspect of the limb. The trunks which are formed from the posterior parts (e.g. external cutaneous, anterior crural, external popliteal) are distributed to the (morphologically) posterior aspect of the limb; these nerves are darkly shaded in fig. 465. The branches of the sacral plexus are classified into collateral and terminal. The collateral branches are the superior gluteal, the inferior gluteal, the nerve to the pyriformis, visceral branches, the nerve to the quadratus, the small sciatic, and the nerve to the obturator internus. The terminal branches are the great sciatic and the pudic nerves. COLLATEKAL BRANCHES.—1. The superior gluteal nerve arises by two roots, one from the lumbo-sacral cord, and the other from the first sacral nerve. The upper root contains fibres derived from the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves. The nerve accompanies the gluteal vessels through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, passing above the pyriformis. It then accompanies the deep division of the gluteal artery into the interval between the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus, and,