INTERNAL MAXILLABY 525 of the sphenoidal fissure, or somethnes through a minute foramen, just external to that fissure, and anastomoses with the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic (e) Anastomotic or perforating branches which pierce the greater wing ot the sphenoid bone, and anastomose with the deep temporal arteries. (4) The mandibular (inferior dental) artery (fig. 336),* arising from the internal maxillary as it lies between the spheno-mandibular ligament and neck of the jaw, courses downwards to the mandibular foramen, which it enters in company with, and a little hehind and external to, the mandibular nerve. It then passes along the canal in the interior of the bone, giving off branches to the molar, bicuspid, and canine teeth. On reaching the mental foramen it divides into two branches, the incisive and the mental. The incisive continues its course in the bone, and supphes branches to the incisor teeth, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. Fig. 837.—The Middle Meningeal Artery within the Skull. OPI-lRYOiSR ^XSUB-NASAL POINT The mental passes through the mental foramen in company with the mental branch )f the inferior dental nerve, and emerges on the chin under cover of the depressor abii inferioris. It anastomoses above with the inferior coronary, and below with he submental, and also with the inferior labial. Near its origin the artery gives ^ff (a) a ling-ual or gustatory branch, which accompanies and supplies the lingual lerve, and ends in the mucous membrane of the mouth ; and, just before it enters. |he dental foramen in the lower jaw, {h) a mylo-hyoidean branch, which accompanies he nerve of that name along the groove in the lower jaw, and, after supplying the |nylo-hyoid muscle, anastomoses with the sublingual and submental arteries. I (5) The small meningeal arises either from the internal maxillary a little in pnt of the middle or great meningeal, or as a branch of that vessel. It passes jipwards along the course of the mandibular division of the fifth nerve, and, entering he skull through the foramen ovale, is distributed to the Gasserian ganglion, and to. he walls of the cavernous sinus and the dura mater in the neighbourhood.