THE MUSCLES 436 the middle layer of the lumbar fascia se^Darates it from the erector spin^, and Along its inner border are placed the intertransversales. The transversalis fascia, which lines the interior of the muscular portion of the ahdominal parietes, is a thin layer of connective tissue. It is best marked in the lower part of the front of the abdomen, where some of the muscular and aponeurotic layers are deficient. Below, it is attached to the inner border of the whole length of the crest of the ilium, and to the outer half of Poupart's ligament, where it! blends with the iliac fascia covering the iliacus muscle. Beneath the inner half ofj Poupart's ligament it is somewhat thickened, and called the deep crural arch.j This is but loosely attached to Poupart's ligament, and the fascia is continued into' the thigh, where it forms the front of the sheath of the femoral vessels. Internally! to this it is attached to the free margin of Gimbernat's ligament, and behind to the ilio-pectineal line. Further inwards it is inserted along the posterior border of the! crest of the pubes. At the back of the linea alba it is continuous with the fascia] of the opposite side. Behind the lower part of the rectus muscle it is thickened,: and takes the place of the posterior portion of the sheath from the pubes to the fold of Douglas. Above, it becomes thin and blends with the fascia covering the under surface of the diaphragm; and behind, it is lost in the loose fat which coven the posterior surface of the kidneys, together with the back of the ascending an descending colon. About half an inch above the centre of Poupart's ligament it is perforated hj the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. To the margins of the opening, which is called the internal abdominal ring, is attached Jij tubular prolongation, the infundibuliform fascia, which invests the cord or round ligament. The connection of this tube to the rest of the fascia may be comparec' to the attachment of the sleeve to a coat. No opening is therefore visible from th exterior until the sleeve-like tube has been divided. i MUSCLES OF THE BACK The two first layers have already been described, as they belong to the groups ( muscles which pass from the thorax to the bones of the upper extremity. The thii layer consists of muscles which stretch in a nearly transverse direction from tl spinous processes of the vertebra to the back of the ribs, viz. the serratus postici, superior and the serratus posticus inferior. Third Layee 1. SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR The serratus posticus superior—named from its saw-like edge and its relati( to the other serrati—is a quadrilateral sheet with a toothed outer margin. Origin.—(1) The outer surface of the lower part of the ligamentum nuchas ne its posterior edge ; (2) the spines of the last cervical and first tAvo thoracic vertebr and the supraspinous ligaments connecting them. Insertion.—The upper borders and outer surfaces of the second to the fifth ri external to their angles. Structure.—The inner half is a tendinous sheet, the fibres of which run do