MOBPHOLOGY OF THE SKULL 105 of the ethmoid and the horizontal plate of the frontal, to emerge on the cribriform plate; they are situated outside the dura mater. The anterior foramen transmits the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, which subsequently gains the nasal cavity by passing through the nasal slit (ethmoidal fissure) beside the crista galli. The infraorbital canal indicates the line of confluence of the maxillary and malar centres of the superior maxilla; occasionally it is completed by the malar ; rarely it is incomplete above, and communicates by a narrow fissure with the orbit. It lodges the infraorbital nerve and artery. The spheno-malar foramen is situated in the suture between the malar and the greater I wing of the sphenoid (ali-sphenoid): it transmits the temporal branch of the orbital nerve I and a branch of the lachrymal artery. In the adult this foramen may be wholly confined I to the malar bone. The malar canals traverse the malar bone, and indicate the line of confluence of the j two chief centres for this bone. The malar twigs of the orbital nerve issue from them j accompanied by arterial twigs. The spheno-palatine foramen is a deep groove between the orbital and sphenoidal processes of the palate bone, converted into a foramen by the sphenoidal turbinal. It is traversed by the naso-palatine nerve and artery as they enter the nasal from the spheno- j maxillar}' fossa. I Scarpa's foramina are two minute openings in the meso-palatine suture where it is in I relation with the anterior j)alatine fossa. They are traversed by the naso-j)alatine nerves. The pterygo-palatine foramen is situated between the sphenoidal process of the palate bone, the internal pterygoid plate of the sphenoid, and the sphenoidal turbinal. The pterygo-palatine nerve and artery pass through it. The Vidian canal is trumpet-shaped : the narrower end is situated in the sphenotic foramen; the broader orifice opens on the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa. The canal is 10 mm. long; in the foetal skull it is a chink between the base of the interna j pterygoid plate, the ali-sphenoid, and the lingula of the sphenoid. The canal is traversed by the Vidian branch of the spheno-palatine ganglion and the Vidian artery. The posterior palatine canal is a passage left between the maxilla, the vertical plate and tuberosity of the palate bone, and the internal pterygoid plate ; it commences on the hard palate by the posterior palatine foramen. The descending palatine nerve and artery traverse this canal. Several foramina open from it. In the suture between the vertical plate of the palate bone and the maxilla, two small openings allow minute nerves to issue for the middle and inferior turbinals. In the fissures between the tuberosities of the palate and maxillee, and the pterygoid plates, the middle and external palatine nerves issue. These foramina are sometimes called accessory and external palatine canals. The mandibular or inferior dental canal runs between the dentar^y and splenial elements of the mandible. The posterior orifice of the canal is the mandibular (inferior dental) foramen ; the anterior orifice, the mental foramen, indicates the line of union of the mento-Meckelian and dentary centres. The mandibular nerve and artery enter the canal [ at its posterior orifice ; the mental foramen allows the mental nerve to escape from the canal accompanied by the mental arter3^ I Foramina transmitting the facial nerve and its branches.—The main trunk of the facial enters the internal auditory meatus and traverses the Fallopian canal. In the early i embryo the nerve lies on the petrosal, and is not covered in with bone until the fifth I month of foital life. The terminal orifice, the stylo-mastoid foramen, is situated between the tympanic, tympano-liyal, and epiotic elements of the complex temporal bone. The ' iter chordee posterius' is a chink between the squamosal and the tympanic elements, and allows the chorda tympani nerve to enter the tympanum. The fissure of exit for this nerve is the subdivision of the Glaserian fissure termed the canal of Huguier, or ' iter chordse anterius.' The Glaserian fissure lies between the tympanic plate and the squamosal. It transmits the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery, and lodges the slender process of the malleus. The spheno-maxillary fissure is situated between the posterior border of the orbital plate of the maxilla and a smooth ridge on the orbital surface of the greater wing of the sphenoid. It transmits the superior maxillary division (second) of the fifth nerve.