THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 812 it recedes from the middle line. The nerve-cells forming this nucleus are all of small size. The large-celled or Deiter's nucleus is placed close to the inner side of the restiform body. It is about the same length as the small-celled nucleus, but occupies a position deeper and further forwards than the latter. The cells of this nucleus are of large size, and are most numerous at the anterior part. The accessory nucleus is a group of cells chiefly contained within the lateral root, but also occupying the angular interspace between the lateral and the mesial roots. It presents marked affinities to a spinal nerve-ganglion, particularly in the character of the nerve-cells in its anterior (superior) part. The nerve-cells in the tuberculum acusticum are also connected with the auditory nerve. The so-called nucleus funiculi teretis (a group of cells which is placed on the mesial side of the chief nucleus), and the superior olive may also be mentioned as parts of the auditory apparatus. Lateral root.—The lateral root arises chiefly from the cells of the accessory nucleus, but a certain number of fibres are believed to pass by that nucleus without interruption. Both sets of fibres pass in a tolerably compact bundle around the outer side of the restiform body. A certain number take origin in the cells of the tuberculum acusticum, the others cross the floor of the fourth ventricle, as stride medullares, and, having crossed the middle line, take origin partly in the so-called nucleus funiculi teretis of the opposite side, and pass partly into the conductor sonorus. The origin of the conductor sonorus is unknown; its course has been noticed in the description of the fourth ventricle (page 758). Fibres pass inwards from the accessory nucleus, and traverse the substance of the pons in a transverse direction to reach the superior olive of the same and of the opposite side. In many animals, owing to the relatively feeble development of the pons, these fibres appear on the ventral surface of the brain and occupy a quadrilateral area on each side, external to the pyramidal body, and in front of (above) the inferior olive. For this reason these fibres are collectively called the corpus trapezoides. Mesial root.—In coronal sections, taken through the medulla at a point corresponding to the centre of the medullary portion by the floor of the fourth ventricle, the cross-section of a bundle of fibres is seen on the inner side of the nucleus cuneatus; this is the ascending root of the auditory nerve. The ascending root is continued into the region of Deiter's nucleus, and is here joined by fibres from the large cells of Deiter's nucleus and by others from the chief nucleus. The fibres derived from these several sources pass ventrally between the restiform body and the ascending root of the trigeminal nerve, and form the mesial root. Many other origins of the auditory nerve have been described, the cerebellar root being, perhaps, the most important of these. The chief nucleus receives fibres which are derived from the flocculus of the opposite side (Edinger). Fibres from the nucleus fastigii of the opposite side reach the cells of Deiter's nucleus, and are probably continued into the mesial root. There appears to be but little doubt that the superior temporal convolution is the cortical centre for hearing (Ferrier). According to Obersteiner, the probable links between the nerves of hearing and the cortical acoustic field are as follow: lateral root, accessory nucleus, superior olive, inferior fillet, posterior quadrigeminal body, internal geniculate body, temporal lobe. From its superficial origin, the auditory nerve proceeds upwards, outwards, and forwards, winding round the middle cerebellar peduncle, and enters the internal auditory meatus. Near the end of that bony canal it divides into an anterior or cochlear, and a posterior or vestibular division. In its course through the meatus, it is accompanied by the facial nerve, the pars intermedia, and the internal audi- tory artery. These structures are all contained in a common sheath of arachnoid.