488 THE MUSCLES i I ^ The depressor thyroidea arises from the lower border of the first ring of the trachea quite close to the middle line. | It passes verticall}^ upwards to be inserted into the lower border of the thyroid carti- i lage internal to the crico-thyroid. [The muscle is figiu-ed by Messenger Bradley in Journ. of Ana f. and Plujs. vol. vi. p. 420.] The dorso-epitrochlearis is a muscular slip given off by the tendon of the latissimus dorsi f at the axilla. Sometimes it is directly continuous with a chondro-ejntrocJdearis muscle. | It is inserted into the long head of the triceps, or into the fascia of the arm, and some- \ times into the internal intermuscular septum. [For figure, see Perrin, Journ. of Anat. i a7id Pliys. vol. v. plate x.] j The extensor primi internodii hallucis longus is usually an offset from the extensor j^ro- prius, hut it may arise separately from the fibula and interosseous membrane. It is inserted into the inner part of the base of the first phalanx of the hallux. [See Wood, Froc. Boy. Soc. vol. xv. p. 535.] | The extensor ossis metatarsi hallucis arises as a slip from the extensor ^jroprius hallucis \ or from the extensor communis digitoritm, or from the tibialis anticus. It may arise as a | separate muscle close to the extensor jrrojjritis. 1 It is inserted into the metatarsal bone of the hallux. | The extensor coccygis arises from the posterior surface of the last piece of the sacrum. It is inserted into the posterior surface of the coccyx. The extensor carpi radialis accessorius arises from the humerus below the extensor carpi radialis longior. \ It is inserted into the metacarpal bone of the thumb, or into the abductor pollicis, or into the first dorsal interosseous muscle. The extensor annularis arises from the posterior surface of the ulnar shaft below the: extensor indicis. When an extensor medius is also present, it will arise in common with ' the annularis. j The tendon passes u.nder the annular ligament with the common extensor, and is; inserted into the tendon of the ring (fourth) finger. The extensor brevis digitorum manus arises fi'om the ligamentous tissues on the back; of the carpus. It passes under the posterior annular ligament, and gives off three slips i which blend with the tendons of the third, fourth, and fifth digits. \ The epitrochleo-anconeus is a small muscle arising from the back of the interna]! condyle of the humerus, and passing over the ulnar nerve is inserted into the inner side' of the olecranon. This is the most frequent of all the muscles to which the term ' abnormal' is applied ! [For figure, see ^Yood, Proc. Boy. Soc. vol. xv. p. 521.] j The extensor medii digiti arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the ulufi immediately below the extensor indicis. ' Its tendon passes under the annular ligament in the same compartment as the commoi i extensor, and is inserted into the tendon of that muscle which goes to the middle finger Sometimes a tendon for the middle finger is given off by the extensor indicis. _ j The flexor accessorius longus arises from the fascia over the flexor longus hallucis; i j passes with the tendon of this muscle beneath the internal annular ligament; and end;! m a tendon which crosses the long plantar ligament obliquely, to be inserted intoth; sesamoid bone in the tendon of the peroneus longus. \ When this muscle is present, the accessorius is sometimes absent. [For figm-e, se'j Thane, Proc. Anat. Soc. of Gt. Britain and Ireland, May 1891.] _ i The flexor carpi radialis brevis vel profundus arises fi'om the front surface of the radiu I near the anterior border, above the pronator quadratus, but below the flexor longn j pollicis. ! The insertion is very variable: in some cases it only reaches the annular ligamenti whilst in others it passes under this structure to be inserted into the trapezium, magnun' or the base of the second or third metacarpal bones. [For figure, see Wood, Journ. q' Anat. and Pkys. vol. i. p. 57.] The gluteus quartus arises from the anterior part of the inferior gluteal ridge of th i ilium ; it lies in close contact with the capsular ligament of the hip joint. It is inserted into the top of the great trochanter of the femur anterior to the insertioi' of the gluteus minimus. [For good figiu-e, see Gruber, VircJiow Arch. bd. cvii. s. 480.] | Hyo-epiglottideus,—This muscle arises from the middle of the ridge on the hngTiC; aspect of the epiglottis. \ It is inserted into the median tubercle on the body of the hyoid bone. It is ofte: j represented by a fibrous band. [See Joiir7i. of Anat. and Phys. \ol.-X-xiii. \). _ { The iliacus minor, or ilio-capsularis, arises from the anterior inferior spine of the ilmii It is inserted into the lower part of the anterior intertrochanteric line, or into the ilic: femoral portion of the capsule. . I The interclavicular muscle usually consists of two fleshy bellies with a stout mtei : i