513 SUPEBIOB THYBOID—LINGUAL branches from the inferior thyroid. The superior thyroid vein passes beneath the artery on its way to the internal jugular vein. The superior thyroid is the artery most commonly divided in cases of suicidal wounds of the throat. j Beanches of the Bupekior Thyroid Artery The named branches of the superior thyroid artery are : ■—(1) The hyoid ; (2) the iterno-mastoid ; (3) the superior laryngeal; and (4) the crico-thyroid. i (1) The hyoid—or infra-hyoid branch as it is sometimes called, usually a small wig—passes along the lower border of the hyoid bone, lying on the thyro-hyoid jtiembrane under cover of the thyro-hyoid and sterno-hyoid muscles. It suppHes jhe infra-hyoid bursa, and the thyro-hyoid muscle, and anastomoses with its fellow if the opposite side, and with the supra-hyoid branch of the lingual. When the jitter artery is small, the infra-hyoid is usually comparatively large, and vice ersa. (2) The sterno-mastoid (fig. 332)—or middle mastoid artery as it is occasionally illed—courses downwards and backwards across the carotid sheath, and entering le sterno-mastoid supplies the middle portion of that muscle. It gives off slender vigs to the thyro-hyoid, sterno-hyoid, and omo-hyoid muscles, and the platysma iad integuments covering it. At times the vessel arises directly from the external iirotid. It lies usually somewhere in the upper part of the incision for tying the )mmon carotid, above the omo-hyoid muscle. (8) The superior laryngeal (fig. 329) passes inwards and forwards beneath le thyro-hyoid muscle, and, perforating the thyro-hyoid membrane along with the iperior laryngeal nerve, supplies the intrinsic muscles and mucous lining of the irynx. Its further distribution within the larynx is given with the description of jiat organ. This branch sometimes arises from the external carotid direct. It ay enter the larynx by passing through a foramen in the thyroid cartilage. (4) The crico-thyroid—or inferior laryngeal branch as it is sometimes called, sually insignificant in size—passes across the crico-thyroid membrane immediately beath the lower border of the thyroid cartilage. It anastomoses with its fellow ' the opposite side, and usually sends a small branch through the membrane to the interior of the larynx. It has, however, frequently been seen of com- batively large size—once as large as the radial, and crossing the membrane jiliquely. In order to avoid injuring the crico-thyroid artery in the operation of ryngotomy, it is usual, if the operation has to be done in a hurry, to make the cision through the crico-thyroid membrane in a transverse direction, and as near the cricoid cartilage as possible. (3. THE LINGUAL ARTERY The lingual artery (fig. 333) arises from the front of the external carotid, Itween the superior thyroid and facial arteries, often, as a common trunk with flatter vessel, and nearly opposite or a little below the greater cornu of the hyoid ne. It may, for purposes of description, be divided into three portions: the first, oblique, extends from its origin to the outer edge of the hyo-glossus muscle ; the cond, or horizontal, lies beneath the hyo-glossus; the third, or ascending, beneath e tongue. The first or oblique portion is situated in the superior carotid tangle, and is superficial, being covered merely by the integuments, platysma, d deep fascia. Here it lies on the middle constrictor muscle and superior l-yngeal nerve. After ascending a short distance, it curves downwards and -wards beneath the hypoglossal nerve, and, in the second part of its course, runs rizontally along the upper border of the hyoid bone, beneath the hyo-glossus.