1108 THE MAMMABY GLANDS vulvar commissure and the anal aperture. It consists of a strong meshwork o connective tissue freely intermingled with fibres of elastic tissue and unstripec muscle, and is traversed by the various muscles Avhich meet at the tendinou' centre of the perin^eum. It becomes stretched to a remarkable degree during th passage of the child's head in labour, but is saved from rupture by its strengtl and elasticity. THE mammje: The mammary glands are two pectoral organs which secrete the milk in th female, but remain permanently rudimentary and functionless in the male. The female mamma (in which term is included the gland with its investin integumentary structures) is seen in its typical adult form as a more or less hem spherical eminence upon the front wall of the chest over the third, fourth, fiftli and sixth ribs, and extending transversely from the border of the sternum to th anterior margin of the axilla. It is surmounted near its middle by a small war like process, the mammilla or nipple, which lies in the centre of a circular area ( altered skin called the areola. Fig. 657.—The Female Mamma dueing Lactation. (After Lusclika.) Acini of gland Gland lo cuius The secreting organ consists of an aggregation of ten to sixteen compoui racemose glands, the ends of which open separately upon the summit of the nipp] These component elements are quite distinct in the dissected breast as so mai lobes of somewhat pyramidal form, with their bases at the periphery and the apic converging towards the mammilla. They are held together and supported by fibrous capsule, which sends inwards deep interlobular processes to form a loculatt framework for the glandular elements, and superficial processes running to tl skin and enclosing fat-containing spaces or adipose fossae. The deep aspect of tl capsule also encloses other fat-spaces, and is attached to the deep fascia by loo connective tissue, the bands of which maybe separated by large lymph-space the so-called ' submammary bursse.' It is the fat lying in the subcutaneous adipo;