THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 716 On each side of the superior longitudinal sinus groups of small lobulated bodies, the so-called Pacchionian glands, project from the surface of the arachnoid; these are enlargements of the normal villi of that membrane which perforate the dura mater and cause absorption of the bone in their vicinity. Most of these bodies are lodged in irregular pits in the calvaria; others project into the superior longitu- dinal sinus. They may also occur in other situations. The subarachnoid tissue consists of very fine trabeculse, clothed with endo- thelial cells, which pass from the arachnoid to the i3ia mater. Thus, a sub- FiG. 407.—Cranial Nerves in the Base of the Skull. (On the left side the dura mater has been removed in the middle fossa. Anterior ethmoidal artery Poderior ethmoidal artery Middle meningeal artery OPHTHALMIC niVISIOiY OF FIFTH NERVE THIRD NERVE Cavernous sinus FOURTH NERVE A UDITORY AND FACIAL NERVES Inferior petrosal sinus Petrosquamous sin us SPINAL A CCESSOR Y N Sigmoid portion of lateral sinus Posterior meningeal branch of vertebral artery Left marginal sinus Circular sin us Cavernous sinus SIXTH NERVE Basilar artery Basilar plexus Auditory artery Vertebral artery Anterior spinal artery HYPOGLOSSAL NER SPINAL ACCESSOR] NERVE Right marginal sinus Occipital sinus Right lateral sinus Left lateral sinu> Superior longitudina sinus arachnoid space, in the proper sense of the word, does not exist; it is convenient, however, to retain the term to designate the region which is occupied by the sub- arachnoid tissue, and to speak of the accumulations of this tissue which are formed in regions where the distance between the arachnoid and pia mater is increased as subarachnoid spaces. It should be understood, however, that in these larger spaces the subarachnoid tissue is less abundant and the meshes are larger than in the regions where the arachnoid and the pia mater are more approximated. The largest of these spaces is the cisterna magna, which is a continuation of the posterior subarachnoid space of the spinal cord. This space appears triangular in sagittal section. It is bounded in front by the layer of pia mater (tela choroidea inferior, page 757) which closes in the lower part of the roof of the fourth ventricle, and above by the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum. It extends laterally as far as the outer margins of the tonsillar lobes. It communi- cates with the fourth ventricle by means of three small openings ; the principal of these (foramen of Majendie) is in the middle line of the tela choroidea inferior