1119 THE EYELIDS A line drawn from the tip of the lobule of the ear to a point midway between the nose and upper lip gives the level of the parotid duct, which opens into the mouth opposite the second upper molar. The sheath of the parotid, continuous with those of the masseter and sterno-mastoid, is strong enough to cause most exquisitely painful tension when inflammation of the gland is present. The upper border of the gland is marked out by a line drawn along the posterior part of the zygoma, the lower by one drawn from the angle of the jaw to the mastoid process ^fig. 668, page 1121). The posterior border is bounded by the mastoid process, external auditory meatus, and the sterno-mastoid ; the anterior border and the socia parotidis Iproject to a variable degree over the masseter. The proximity of the parotid to the 'styloid process, to which the pharynx is attached, accounts for deep parotid abscess Dpening into the pharynx. Below the root of the zygoma, when this process is [traced backwards, will be felt the temporo-mandibular joint; and when the mouth Is opened, the condyle will be felt to glide forwards upon the eminentia articularis. Fig. 666.—Vertical Transverse Section through Upper Eyelid. (After Waldeyer and Fuchs.) ::!utaiieou8 surface just i above superior palpe- bral fold Orbicularis fibres, cut across i SWEAT GLAND [fine hair with sebaceous i gland at its base Orbicularis fibres, cut across MODIFIED SWEAT GLAND OF MOLL -CONJUNCTIVA NEAR FORNIX Anterior layer of inser- tion of levator pal- pebrae superioris Superior palpebral muscle of Miiller Fibres from levator passing through orbicularis to skin Siipej-ior vascular arch, cut across WALDEYER'S GLANDS Conjunctival papillae over attached border of tarsus Musculus ciliaris Riolani Posterior edge of lid- margin OPENING OF DUCT OF MEIBOMIAN GLAND THE EYELIDS AND LACHRYMAL APPARATUS The structure of the lids.—The different layers are of much practical import- ince. (1) The skin is delicate and fatless, and contains pigment, the object of his being to protect the eye from bright light. It helps to explain the ' dark