1218 SURGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHIGAL ANATOMY (1) either at the level of the highest point of the iliac crest (Quain, Gray, Turner, | Cunningham, Henle, Bellamy, and others); or (2) between the anterior superior iliac spines (Todd, Holden, Heath, Macalister, Shield, Tillaux, Hyrtl, Eiidinger, and 1 Joessel). The longihcdinal Ime on each side may run upwards (1) from the middle j of Poupart's ligament (Quain, Gray, Turner, Heath, Tillaux) ; (2) from the inner part of the ligament (Todd, Eiidinger) ; (3) from the pubic spine (Aitken, Mac- I alister); or (4) from the anterior superior iliac spine (Hyrtl) ; (5) from the ilio- ' pectineal eminence (Joessel). It may be directed perpendicularly upwards without reference to any terminal point (Quain, Cunningham, Tillaux); or it may be drawn | to a fixed, but often rather indefinite, locality above, as the seventh costal cartilage i (Heath, Bellamy) ; the bony extremity of the sixth or seventh rib (Eiidinger); ' ' the extremity of the seventh or eighth rib ' (Todd); ' the eighth costal cartilage,' i without reference to the particular part of the structure (Gray, Holden, Macalister, i Shield); to ' the ninth or tenth rib ' (Henle); to the sterno-clavicular joint (Hyrtl); ' to the acromio-clavicular joint (Aitken, etc.); or may stop short at the superior ' horizontal line, the upper region being subdivided by the costal border (Joessel). i Setting aside the impracticability of some of these indications^ it is obvious that the variations between the different systems are really important. For example,: in the scheme most in vogue, that adopted in ' Quain's Anatomy,' the umbilicus i lies at the lowest limit of the umbilical region, or even outside it altogether—never in the middle as the diagrams depict—and the height of the area seldom exceeds ; two inches, and is often less ; in * Gray's Anatomy' the elevation of the upper horizontal line to the ninth costal cartilage adds an inch or two above ; and in i Macalister and Tillaux the depression of the lower horizontal line to the iliaci^ spines lends an increase of about three inches in the other direction, and the umbilicus now falls in the centre of the area from which it takes its name. Again, in most of the systems the outline of the region is rectangular, or nearly so; but in Aitken it widens above towards the points of the shoulders, and in j Hyrtl it widens below towards the anterior inferior iliac spines. Equally serious ' discrepancies exist in all of the other regions. j Whatever system be adopted, it is necessary that the boundary ' lines ' should 1 be converted into planes carried through the whole depth of the abdomen, and I defined on the dorsal as well as on the ventral surface of the trunk, and that the structures cut through by these planes should be noted, as well as those comprised \ within the regions which they separate. It should, of course, be recognised that i the relations so defined can only be approximate, on account of the wide range of - physiological variation in the position of the abdominal contents ; but this being * understood, a regional type would be of material service in medical education. Could we cast off tradition without loss, it would, perhaps, be more simple, and more useful, to divide the cavity into superior and inferior segments by a | single horizontal plane at the level of the umbilicus (or of the highest point of \ the iliac crest), and then to subdivide each segment into three by two vertical lines ; drawn as described, from the middle of Poupart's ligament. The regions might ; then be called right, left, and middle superior, and right, left, and middle inferior; i but such a change would have the great disadvantage of making the older references unintelligible. If we retain the subdivision into nine segments, it remains only to consider the method of delimitation. Firstly, for the higher plane, the most suitable level , appears to be that adopted in ' Quain's Anatomy,' the lowest point of the cartila- I ginous border of the thorax (usually the eleventh costal cartilage). This plane passes through the second lumbar vertebra posteriorly, and lies about two inches above the umbilicus in front. It cuts through the stomach, the transverse colon, the ascending and descending colon, the duodenum (lower curvature) and small intestine, and the kidneys. For the lower horizontal _2:)Za72e we have the choice of