TENSOB VAGINA FEMOBIS—GLUTEUS MEDIUS 373 one J lialf ■ Muss %\ 5 lie mtie or Its! rfacecli ycoTtiii Jiilik :iikr(sl nmli iml: larsai :Dtail idU ofie! infei ,iiicM klociii jusiiiiiii' oi ;he great pain which is felt in rising from the stooping position when there is any nflammation of the fascias in this region, as in lumbago. Relations.—Behind, the thick adipose tissue of the buttock and the fold which •orms its lower limit, and numerous cutaneous nerves ; in front, the gluteus medius, Dyriformis, gemelli and obturator internus, quadratus femoris, adductor magnus, 3iceps, semi-tendinosus and semi-membranosus, the gluteal, sciatic and pudic vessels, he great and small sciatic, the pudic and internal obturator nerves, the two sacro- iciatic ligaments, the tuber ischii, and great trochanter. Variations.—These are rare. Occasionally a bilaminar arrangement has been observed. 2. TENSOR VAGINAE FEMORIS The tensor vaginae femoris (figs. 287, 303)—named from its function of making ight the fascia lata, or sheath of the thigh (=vagina femoris)—is an elongated, our-sided sheet. Origin.—(1) The front of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium ; (2) the ipper part of the notch between the anterior superior and the anterior inferior pines of the ilium; (3) the inner surface of the fascia lata, by which it is closely nvested. Insertion.—The fascia lata about one-fourth of the way down the outer side of he thigh. Structure. — The muscle consists of parallel fleshy fibres which arise by a hort tendinous sheet, pass obliquely downwards, outwards, and backwards, and are Qserted between two layers of the upper part of the strong aponeurosis of the fascia ata on the outside of the thigh called the ilio-tibial hand, which also gives attach- aent to the majority of the fibres of the gluteus maximus. The two muscles meet ly their adjacent borders a little below the upper part of the greater trochanter at n angle of about 60°. As they pass upwards, the two divisions of the fascia lata orm a strong sheath for the muscle. Nerve-supply.—Through the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, and the first sacral, y the terminal branch of the superior gluteal nerve which enters the muscle bout the middle of its deep surface near its posterior border. Action.—To abduct and rotate inwards the thigh, and, taking its fixed point rom below, to support the pelvis and to rotate the other side of it forwards. Acting dth the gluteus maximus, it will draw upwards the ilio-tibial band, the obliquity of ts fibres enabling it to counteract the tendency of that muscle to draw the band ackwards. The chief consequence of this traction upon the ilio-tibial band will e to assist in the latter part of the extension of the leg, by the drawing upwards f the external tuberosity of the tibia. Relations.—Superficially, the fascia lata and the origin of the sartorius ; |.eeply, the deeper layer of the fascia lata, the gluteus medius, the upper part of tie rectus femoris and the vastus extei^nus, with some of the branches of the xternal circumflex artery. Secoi^d Layee The second layer consists of one muscle— GLUTEUS MEDIUS The gluteus medius (fig. 288)—named from its size and position, which are jgflill [ntermediate between those of the great and small gluteal muscles—is a strong i^^jli{l||riangular sheet. m