THE MUSCLES 456 the crest of the nasal process of the maxilla, and passes transversely outwards am somewhat upwards in front of the lachrymal sac, to which it gives off' an aponeuroti covering. It then bifurcates into an upper and a lower division, which diverge t be attached to the inner extremities of the tarsi, here separated by the caruncul lachrymal is. The external tarsal ligament is undivided ; it passes from the margi: of the frontal process of the malar bone transversely inwards to the extremitie of the tarsi, which at the outer commissure of the eyelids are in close contact. The orbital portion of the orbicularis palpebrarum consists of a series of con centric oval loops which are attached only at the inner side of the orbit. Origin and insertion.—(1) The lower part of the internal angular process c the frontal bone ; (2) the posterior half of the outer surface of the nasal proces of the maxilla ; (3) the upper and lower surfaces of the inner half of the interuE tarsal ligament. The palpebral portion consists of paler and shorter semielliptical fibres. Origin.—The upper and lower surfaces of the outer half of the internal tarsE ligament, together with the adjacent part of the aponeurosis covering the lachryme sac. Insertion.—The upper and lower surfaces of the external tarsal ligament. Structure.—Both portions of the muscle are entirely composed of fleshy fibrei In addition to the origin of the orbital portion at the inner part of the orbit, i gives off processes from its circumference which blend with the adjacent muscle such as the frontalis and the elevator of the upper lip. Moreover, some of tbl deeper fibres of the muscle decussate with the fibres of those adjacent muscl( which lie under cover of the outer loops. \ The innermost fibres of the palpebral portion are shorter than the rest an( instead of extending across the whole length of the tarsi, they terminate upon the free margins, between the attachment of the eyelashes and the orifices of certain glands w^hich line the inner surface of the tarsi. : Nerve-supply.—The temporal and malar branches of the temporo-facii I division of the facial nerve, which enter the outer part of the muscle upon its deti surface. Action.—(1) The orbital portion by its contraction draws the soft parts arour| the opening of the orbit inwards and towards the palpebral aperture, raisir up a ridge which deepens the socket of the eye so as to protect the eyeball fro: injury, e.g. from the blow of a fist. (2) Its upper part will loww the eyebrow, {j when the face is exposed to a strong light, or when the mind is wrapt in thought. (: The palpebral portion will lower the upper and raise the lower eyelid, in closure i the eye. (4) The firm contraction of the whole muscle presses upon the eyebalj and supports it from the evil eftect of a strong expiratory effort, which by tl rush of blood into the interior of the eyeball might burst its thin-walled vessel and do serious harm to the delicate structures within. Thus it will be noticed th in shouting, sneezing, or violent coughing the eyes are tightly closed. (5) 11 pressure upon the lachrymal gland it is probable that the muscle influences tl secretion of tears : hence their flow during violent coughing or laughter. It w: also draw outwards and forwards the covering of the lachrymal sac, and so produi a suction of the tears through the canaliculi into the sac. Relations.—Superficially, the skin ; upon its deep surface the tarsal cartilagt; and their ligaments, the palpebral ligaments and the expansion of the tendon j the levator palpebraB superioris ; the bones which bound the opening of the orbit, tl frontalis and corrugator supercilii muscles above ; the temporal fascia externall} the zygomaticus minor, levator labii superioris, and levator labii superioris alasqi nasi, below ; also the supraorbital vessels and nerves, the supratrochlear nerve, tl | terminal portion of the facial artery, and the palpebral branches of the infri orbital vessels and nerve.