98 THE SKELETON portion of the mandible adjacent to the symph^^sis; the proximal end ossifies as thej malleus. The intermediate portion disappears ; the only vestige which remains is a bandj of fibrous tissue, the spheno-mandibular ligament, extending from the spine of the sphenoid | to the spine of the mandible. [ The hyoid bar fuses distally with the th3^roid bar, and is represented by the hyoid bone, i Its proximal end becomes the incus, tympano-hyal, and styloid process ; the intervening strip i is represented in the adult by the stylo-hyoid ligament. i The styloid process has two centres of ossifica.tion. A nucleus appears anterior to the} st^do-mastoid foramen, and is known as the tympano-hyal. At bhth the true styloid: process is cartilaginous. In the second year it ossifies, and subsequently becomes firmly ankylosed to the tympano-hyal. Occasionally the h3"oid bar may ossif}^ throughout. When this is the case the styloid process reaches to the hyoid and replaces the stylo-hyoid ligament. i The stapes originates in a piece of cartilage which is traversed by the temporary | stapedial artery. Its centres of ossification require investigation. The internal pterygoid plate arises in a piece of cartilage which rej)resents the palato-quadrate of lower vertebrates. The internal pterygoid plate is an appendicular element engrafted on to the sphenoid.. In many mammals it is a separate bone throughout life. In the same way the styloid; process is an appendicular element ankylosed to the petrosal and the tympanic plate ; inj many mammals it remains separate throughout life. The skull at birth presents, when compared with the adult skull, several important audi interesting features. Its peculiarities may be considered under three headings :—The; peculiarities of the fcetal skull as a whole ; the condition of individual bones; thej remnants of the chondral skull. ! The general characters of the foetal skull.—The most striking features of the skuU a birth are, its relatively large size in comparison with the body, and the predominance o the cerebral over the facial portion of the skull; the latter is, in fact, very small. The frontal and parietal eminences are large and conspicuous; the sutures are absent. the adjacent margins of the bones of the vault are separated by septa of fibrous tissue! continuous with the dura mater internally and the pericranium externally; hence it isj difficult to separate the roof bones from the underlying dura mater, each bone being lodged as it were in a dense membranous sac. The bones of the vault consist of a single layeij The Skull at Birth Fig. 101.—The Cranium at Birth.