54:0 THE ABTEBIES Beaxches of the Subclavian Aeteey From the first portion of the subclaviau artery are given off : from the upper anc back part and about three-quarters of aniiich (2 cm.) from its origm, the vertebral a little further outwards, from the front part, the thyroid axis ; and from the lowe part—usually opposite the thyroid axis, or else between the thyroid axis and tb vertebral—the internal mammary. From the second portion arises, from the back of the vessel, the superior intei costal. I The tliird portion, as a rule, gives off no branch. Branches of the First Part of the Subclavian' Artery THE VERTEBRAL ARTERY The vertebral artery, the first and largest branch, arises from the upper ai posterior part of the first portion of the subclavian, on the right side abo three-quarters of an inch (2 cm.) from the origin of the latter vessel from tj innominate, on the left side, from the most promment part of the arch of the su clavian, close to the inner edge of the scalenus anticus muscle. It first ascends the foramen m the costo-transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and, havi passed through that foramen and those of the next succeeding cervical vertebrae-i high as the axis, it turns outwards, and then upvrards to reach the foramen in 1 transverse process of the atlas ; after passmg through that foramen it turns ba(! wards behind the articular process lying in the groove on the posterior arch of \- atlas. It next pierces the posterior occipito-atloid ligament and the dura mater, a enters the cranium through the foramen magnum. Here it passes upwards, at fi lying by the side of the medulla, then in front of that structure, and terminates at lower portion of the pons by inosculating with the vertebral of the opposite sid( form the basilar. The vertebral artery may be divided for purposes of description into four pai : the first, or cervical, extending from its origin to the transverse process of the si q cervical vertebra ; the second, or vertebral, situated in the intervertebral forami:; the tliird, or occipital, contamed in'the suboccipital triangle; and the fourtli|r intracranial, within the cranium. The first or cervical portion.—The artery here lies between the scale anticus and longus colli muscles. In front it is covered by the vertebral and uite] jugular veins, and is crossed by the inferior thyroid artery ; and on the left side addition, by the thoracic duct, which runs over it from within outwards. Bet the artery lies on the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and sympathetic nerve. To its inner side is the longus coUi. To its outer side is le scalenus anticus. It gives off as a rule no branch in this part of its course. 0 p- sionally, however, a small branch passes into the foramen of the transverse pre of the seventh cervical vertebra. ^ The second or vertebral portion.—As the artery passes through the ujr- vertebral foramina, it is surromided by a i3iexus of veins and by branches of pe sympathetic nerve. The cervical nerves he behhid it. Between the trans^pe processes it is in contact with the intertransverse muscles. j The tliird or occipital portion.—The artery here Hes m the suboccipital tria lie, bounded by the superior obhque, uiferior oblique, and rectus capitis posticus r or muscles. As it winds round the groove on the atlas, it has the rectus capitis late lis, the articular process, and the occipito-atloid ligament in front of it; the suj lor ss