769 GBANIO-CEBEBBAL TOPOGBAPHY of the zygoma. It runs then backwards and slightly upwards, passing four to ten millimetres above the external auditory meatus, and follows the same direction as far as a perpendicular line drawn upwards from the posterior border of the mastoid process at its root; then, slightly changing its direction, it passes backwards, with an inclination downwards, a little above the superior nuchal line to the external occipital protuberance. In the above description the method of Poirier has been partly followed. It should be noted that the apex of the temporal lobe is directed inwards as well as downwards and forwards, so that it is related to the base rather than to the lateral wall of the skull. In a brain hardened in situ (fig. 410), the apex of the temporal lobe is seen to be sharply pointed, while, about one-half to three-quarters of an inch above and behind the apex, an elevation is seen crossing the three temporal convolutions. This elevation corresponds to the margin of the part of the hemisphere which is in relation to the lateral wall of the skull, I and is apparently the blunt pole {i^ointe mousse) of the temporal lobe referred to by Poirier. In tracing the mesial border of the hemisphere, a quarter of an inch on the left side and three-quarters of an inch on the right side is allowed for the superior longitudinal sinus. This allows an inch for the breadth of the sinus, which would be too large for the superior longitudinal sinus alone; but we must also take into account the commencement of the lateral sinuses, which begin to deviate at this point. The inion is a little below the occipital pole of the cerebral hemispheres. The superior nuchal line generally corresponds, as Birmingham has shown, to the lateral sinus at its posterior or inner part. [In six skulls I ' drilled a series of holes horizontally through the superior nuchal line of the occipital bone on each side. Most of the holes entered the groove for the lateral sinus or pierced the skull below that groove. In three skulls, holes drilled through the nuchal line at a point half an inch external to the inion on the left side passed above the sinus, and would therefore have entered the cerebrum in the recent state. In every instance the nuchal line was situated entirely below the cerebrum on the right side. From the average of the six skulls examined it would appear that the inner third of the superior nuchal line corresponds to the lower border of the lateral sinus or to the margin of the cerebellum ; the middle third of the nuchal line to the lateral sinus near its upper border ; and the outer third of the nuchal line to the cerebellum.—H. St. J. B.] Position of the principal fissures.—The methods in use in this country up I to the present time for determining the relations of the principal fissures to I ■ the surface of the head are chiefly those of Hare and Eeid. The former mainly devoted himself to mapping out the most important fissure, namely, the fissure of Rolando. He found that the upper end of this fissure was on an average 57 per cent, of the surface-distance from the glabella to the external occipital protuberance, that its average length was 3f inches, and that it formed an angle of 1 67° with the mesial line of the head. This angle has recently been shown to more nearly average 71'5° (Cunningham). Eeid refers most of his markings to perpendiculars erected on a line drawn from the lowest part of the infraorbital margin backwards through the middle of the external auditory meatus. He calls I this line the ' base line.' The rules which follow in this article for determining the positions of the various fissures are based mainly on the observations of Hare, Poirier, and Cunningham. I Fissure of Rolando.—If the distance from the floor of the naso-frontal groove 1 to the external occipital protuberance be measured, and a point be taken two centimetres behind the central point of this line, it will indicate the upper end of the fissure of Rolando. From this point a line should be drawn downwards and forwards for a distance of 8*6 centimetres (3| inches), forming an angle of 71*5° with the mesial line. In cases where the external occipital protuberance cannot be satisfactorily made out, the upper end of the fissure of Rolando may be found by measuring a distance of eighteen centimetres in large heads (or seventeen centimetres in small heads) from the naso-frontal groove. (Poirier.) ; [In this method of determining the position of the fissure of Rolando, I have employed j Poirier's method for determining the upper extremity of the fissure, the Eolandic angle as I determined by Cunningham, and the length of the fissure as given by Hare. I recently I, measured eight of Professor Cunningham's casts, both by the above method and by Hare's. 3D