THE ABTICULATIONS 278 The synovial membrane which hues the jomt sometimes commmiicates witli the knee joint through the hiirsa beneath the pophteus tendon. 1 The arterial supply is from the inferior external articular and recurrent tibia arteries. I The nerve-supply is from the inferior external articular, and also from th*' recurrent branch of the external popliteal. i The movements are but slight, and consist merely of a gliding of the two bone:! upon one another. The joint is so constructed that the fibula gives some supper to the tibia in transmitting the weight to the foot. The articular facet of thi tibia overhangs, and is received upon the articular facet of the head of tb fibula in an oblique plane. This joint allows of slight yielding of the externa malleohis during flexion and extension of the ankle joint, the whole fibula glidiii; slightly upwards in flexion, and downwards in extension of the ankle. (b) The Middle Tibio-fibulak Union The interosseous membrane is attached all along the outer border of the tibia ain the interosseous border of the fibula. It is deficient above for about an inch (2*5 cm. or more, measured from the under aspect of the superior joint. Its upper horde is concave, and over it pass the anterior tibial vessels. The membrane consists o a thin aponeurotic and translucent lamina, formed of oblique fine fibres, some c which run from the tibia to the fibula, and some from the fibula to the tibia, bii all are inclined downwards. They are best marked at their attachment to th bones, and gradually grow denser and thicker as they approach the inferio interosseous ligament. The chief use of the membrane is to afford a surface for th origin of muscles. It is continuous below with the inferior interosseous ligament.! (c) The Infekior Tibio-fibulak Articulation | Class.—DiartJiTosis. Subdivision.—Arthrodia. This junction is formed by the lower ends of the tibia and fibula. The roug triangular surface on each of these bones formed by the bifurcation of their intei: osseous lines is closely and firmly united by the inferior interosseous ligamen The fibula is in actual contact with the tibia by an articular facet, which is sma, in size, crescentic in shape, and continuous with the articular facet of the malleolu;! The ligaments which unite the bones are :— i 1. Anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament. I 2. Posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament. : 3. Transverse ligament. 4. Inferior interosseous ligament. j The anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament (fig. 255) is a strong triangular ban about three-quarters of an inch (2 cm.) wide, and is attached to the lower extremity <\ ; the tibia at its anterior and external angle, close to the margin of the facet for tl' astragalus, and passes downwards and outwards to the anterior border and coi tiguous surface of the lower end of the fibula, some fibres passing along the ed^j nearly as far as the origin of the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral lig; : ment. The fibres increase in length from above downwards. In front it is in relatic* with the ijeroneus terthis and deep fascia of the leg, and gives origin to fibr; of the anterior ligament of the ankle joint. Behind, it lies in contact with tl' : interosseous ligament, and comes into contact with the articular surface of tli i astragalus. j The posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament (figs. 254, 255) is very similar !