606 THE ABTERIES I manner over the front and back of the uterus, supplying its substance, anasto- moses with the uterine branch of the ovarian artery. The distribution of the vessel in the uterus will be described with that organ. The branches of the uterine artery are :—(1) Cervical.—This branch comes off from the uterine as the latter artery crosses the ureter to turn upwards on to the uterus. It runs directly inwards, i and divides into three or four branches which pass on to the cervix at right angles I to it; one branch anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side in front and behind the neck, forming the so-called coronary artery of the cervix. (2) Vaginal azygos.—A second branch descends both in front and behind in the middle line of the cervix on to the vagina, and forms, with branches of the vaginal arteries, the so-calLed azygos artery of the vagina. 5. THE VAGINAL AETEEIES The vaginal arteries come off separately from the anterior division of the internal iliac, or one or more of them may arise in common with the inferior vesical, uterine, or middle h^emorrhoidal arteries. They are usually two or three in number. They pass through the pelvic connective tissue to the side of the vagina, supplying its walls, and anastomosing with the corresponding arteries of the opposite side, with each other, and with tortuous branches from the artery of the cervix, a branch of the uterine. With this vessel they form a more or less vertical trunk in the median line of the vagina, both back and front. This vessel is known as the azygos artery of the vagina. The lower vaginal arteries extend to the bulb of the vestibule, where they communicate with the bulbal branch of the internal pudic. Small branches extend also on to the rectum. 6. THE OBTURATOR ARTERY I The obturator artery comes off from the anterior division of the internal iliac at about the same spot as the hypogastric. Occasionally it arises from the posterior t division. Its runs forward and downwards a little below the brim of the pelvis, having the obturator nerve above, and the obturator vein below. It here lies between the peritoneum and the pelvic fascia, but pierces the fascia to gain the obturator canal, the aperture in the upper and outer part of the obturator membrane. In this course it is crossed by the vas deferens. On emerging from the obturator canal, the artery divides into two branches, an external and an internal, which wind ; round the margin of the thyroid foramen beneath the obturator externus muscle. Within the pelvis the artery gives off:—(1) An iliac or nutrient branch ; (2) a vesical branch ; and (B) a pubic branch. Without the pelvis, it divides into :—(1) An external branch ; and (2) an internal branch. A. Intrapelvic branches.—(1) The iliac or nutrient branch ascends to the ihac fossa, passing between the iliacus muscle and the bone. It supplies a nutrient vessel to the ilium, and anastomoses with the internal branch of the iliac division | of the ilio-lumbar artery. (2) The vesical branch or branches are small vessels which run in the lateral false ligament of the bladder to that organ, where they anastomose with the other ! vesical arteries. (3) The pubic branch comes off from the obturator as that vessel is leaving the pelvis by the obturator canal. It runs upwards and inwards behind the pubes, anastomosing with its fellow of the opposite side of the body, and with the pubic branch of the deep epigastric artery. One of the anastomosing channels between the pubic branch of the obturator and pubic branch of the deep epigastric arteries