THE ABCH OF THE AOBTA 497 The Ascending Poetion of the Aech of the Aokta The ascending portion or ventral aorta ascends behind the sternum from the upper part of the left ventricle of the heart, on a level with the lower border of the ihird left costal cartilage, to the upper border of the second right costal cartilage, [t measures from two to two and a quarter inches (5*5 cm.), forming, as it ascends, a o-entle curve, the most prominent part of which, when the aorta is distended, is situated about a quarter of an inch (6 mm.) from the sternum. It is enclosed for ihe greater part of its length in the pericardium, being invested, together with !;he pulmonary artery, in a common sheath formed by the serous layer of that uembrane. A dilatation known as the great sinus of the arch of the aorta is pften present along the right side. Immediately above the heart the aorta presents ihree bulgings, known as the sinuses of Valsalva ; they are placed, two anteriorly, md one posteriorly. From the anterior are derived the coronary arteries of the aeart. (See Heart.) Relations.—In front (fig. 322), it is overlapped at its commencement by the ! ight auricular appendix and the pulmonary artery. Higher up, as the pulmonary j Fig. 322.—Scheme of the Eelations of the First Portion of the Arch of THE Aorta. I, at origin; II, a little higher up. I PERICARDIUM RIGHT AURICLE RIGHT AURICULAR APPENDIX LEFT AURICLE Pulmonary artery RIGHT BRONCHUS Right pulmonary artery Vena cava superior PERICARDIUM PLEURA LUNG Left pulmonary artery Pulmonary artery PERICARDIUM - LUNG - PLEURA REMAINS OF THYMUS GLAND MANUBRIUM rtery and auricular appendix diverge, it is separated from the manubrium by the ericardium, the remains of the thymus gland, and by the loose tissue and fat in 'he superior mediastinum, and is here slightly overlapped by the right pleura and y the edge of the right lung in full inspiration. Behind are the left auricle of the heart, the right pulmonary artery, the right ronchus, and the anterior right deep cardiac nerves. K K