THE UBINABY OBGANS 1056 distension of the viscus (see Eiiclinger, plate 3) it may descend to a lower level On the other hand, in young children it usually reaches the level of the uppei border of the symphysis, and in old persons with prostatic disease it may rise ever above this point. In the male adult it lies from three-quarters of an inch to aij inch behind the symphysis, and about tAvo or two and a half inches above th(! perinaeum. | Structure.—The bladder wall is composed mainly of unstriped muscular fibre i invested externally by a layer of recto-vesical fascia and a partial covering ol peritoneum, and lined with mucous membrane and submucous tissue. Its thick ness varies greatly in ditferent subjects and in the same subject under differen: conditions of distension. It is estimated at about an eighth of an inch whei' moderately stretched, but may reach half an inch or even more when completer: contracted. It is somewhat thicker at the trigone. The arrangement of the peritoneum over the superior, lateral, and posterior walk has been described, and it only remains to mention that its reflexions over th' urachus above, and from the sides and back of the bladder below, form the superioi lateral, and posterior false ligaments. The recto-vesical fascia is a well-developer Fig. 618.—The Posterior Wall of the Bladder. (After Henle.) VAS DEFERENS URETER PIERCING VESICAL WALL PLICA URETERICA VESICAL APERTURE OF URETER MUSCULARIS MUCOSA UVULA OF LIEUTAUD VERUMONTANUM OPENING OF EJACULATORY DUCT SINUS POCULARIS PROSTATIC SINUS layer of tissue over the lower part of the viscus, but is greatly attenuated above, is continuous below with the capsule of the prostate, and passes on to the pub bones in front of the latter organ in the form of a double fold called the pub prostatic or anterior true ligaments, and upon the levator ani at the sides, whe its reflexions are termed the lateral true ligaments, while the urachus abo represents a superior ligament. These traditional names, however, are misleadii]' and have no practical value. The muscular coat is composed of unstriped fibn which may be divided roughly into two layers, an outer principally longitudin and an inner plexiform, but tending towards the horizontal direction. The fibr of the outer layer are most distinctly longitudinal on the anterior and poster! surfaces, and extend above along the urachus, but they run obliquely over the sides the bladder, decussating with each other in a complex manner ; and near the urethri end of the viscus two strong bundles of the anterior longitudinal fibres run or on each side of the middle line in front of the anterior wall of the prostate ar beneath the pubo-prostatic ligament, to become attached to the back of the pub; bones on each side of the symphysis (vesico-pubic muscle). The imie^" layer forms kind of annular sphincter near the urethral orifice (sphincter vesicae internus), tki fibres of which are continuous with the upper sphincteric fibres of the prostate, am