THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 730 the tentorial siu^face may be learned from a momited specimen, or better still from a east of a cerebral hemisphere, and the actual convolutions can be examined when the hemi- spheres are cut away from the mesencephalon at a later stage. Mesial and tentorial surfaces of the hemisphere.—The mesial surface of the hemisphere is marked off from both the convex supero-external and the tentorial surface by the margin of the great longitudinal fissure. This margin follows a curved course as a well-defined border from the posterior extremity of the gyrus rectus as far as the occipital pole of the cerebrum. From this point it passes for- wards and pursues a slightly curved course to the splenium of the corpus callosum immediately beneath which it ends. The latter part is termed by Schwalbe the internal occipital border ; it is only seen in carefully-hardened brains, and appears as a rounded margin crossing the lobulus lingualis, and in front of this marking Fig. 411.—Convolutions and Fissures on the Mesial and Tentorial Surfaces OF the Hemisphere. PARACENTRAL LOBULE SULCUS PARACEXTRALIS CALLOSO-MARGINAL FISSURE DENTATE IMPRESSIO TENTORIAL UNCUS FISSURE PETROSA GROOVE the gyrus fornicatus immediately above its isthmus (fig. 411). The tentorial surface is marked off from the supero-external surface by a well-defined border which extends from the occipital pole to the extremity of the teniporo-sphenoidal lobe, forming a slight curve with the convexity upwards. The fissural system of the mesial and tentorial surfaces is of considerable importance and interest, as all the complete fissures of the cerebrum appear on these surfaces. These fissures are, as already mentioned, the internal parieto-occipital, the calcarine, the dentate, and the collateral. The calloso-marginal, a constant and important incomplete fissure, is also to be seen on the mesial surface. The ealloso-marginal fissure commences below the genu of the corpus callosum and pursues a curved course parallel to the corpus callosum until it reaches a point a short distance behind the upper extremity of the fissure of Eolando. It then bends upwards and extends on to the convex surface for a short distance, where it indents the upper end of the ascending parietal convolution. Two branches which