FALCIFOBM LOBE—COBPUS CALLOSUM 733 by the adult himian brain. It is incompletely divided into two segments by the corpus callosum. The outer segment (limbic lobe of Broca) is formed by the gyrus fornicatus and the micinate convolution. These two convolutions, with the isthmus which unites them, form a remarkable ring-like gyrus open only at the anterior perforated space. The inner segment comprises the septum lucidum, the fascia dentata, and the fornix. Of the remaining convolutions on the mesial and tentorial surfaces, the marginal and paracentral belong to the frontal lobe ; the prsecmieus to the parietal lobe; the cmieus, lobulus lingualis, and posterior portion of the inferior occipito-temporal, to the occipital lobe ; and the anterior part of the inferior occipito-temporal to the temporal lobe. The Corpus Callosum is a great white commissure which unites the cerebral hemispheres. Its form can be well studied in a mesial section of the brain (fig. 412).. Here it is seen to form a longitudinal arch with rounded anterior and Fig. 412.—Mesial Section of Entire Brain. (After Henle.) The (*) points to the anterior extremity of the gyrus fornicatus ; above it is the basal white commissure. POSTERIOR SULCUS OF MIDDLE FORAMEN COMMISSURE MONRO COMMISSURE OF MONRO PONS CORPUS CINEREUM ALBICANS posterior extremities. The posterior extremity is called the splenium; it is rounded off behind and is formed by the corpus callosum doubling on itself, so that a small portion is folded forw^ards under, and in close opposition to, the larger part (fig. 413). The anterior extremity or genu is less sharply bent than the posterior end. It is continued downwards and backwards into a portion which appears pointed in section and is called the rostrum. The rostrum is connected to the lamina cinerea by a thin layer of white substance, the basal white commissure. The portion which intervenes between the splenium and rostrum, and which con- stitutes the greater part of the corpus callosum, is called the body. The under surface of the body is adherent behind to the fornix, and in front to the septum lucidum. In coronal sections (figs. 415, 423) it can be seen that the under surface