504 THE ABTEBIES Variations in the Innominate Artery The variations in the innominate artery are of surgical interest, {a) It may divide lower than normal, thus decreasing the available space for the application of a ligature to it, but at the same time increasing the length of the first portion of the right subclavian artery. (6) It may divide higher than usual, and may then incline abnormally to the left, mounting in front of the trachea above the sternum. Under these circumstances it is in danger in the low operation of tracheotomy, (c) When abnormally long and inclining to the left, it may pass behind the trachea or the oesophagus to gain the right side, {d) It may give off the thyroidea ima artery, and, more rarely the vertebral, the internal mammary or a smaller twig, as a bronchial, thymic, pericardiac, or tracheal branch. The branches of the innominate artery are : (1) The right common carotid ; and (2) the right subclavian. These are terminal branches. There are usually no col- lateral branches from this vessel, but at times the thyroidea ima may arise from it. Fig. 327.—Scheme of the Kelations of the Innominate Artery. I, a little above origin; II, a little below bifurcation. I CARDIAC NERVE RIGHT PNEUMO- GASTRIC NERVE Innominate arterij RIGHT LUNG AND PLEURA^ Right innominate vein, divided transversely at its junction with the left innominate vein Left common carotid artery Inferior thyroid vein Inferior thyroid vein Left innominate vein STERNUM RIGHT LUNG AND PLEURA' RIGHT PNEU MO- GASTRIC NERVE Right innominate vein Innominate artery CARDIAC NERVES Left common carotid artery Inferior thyroid vein Sterno-liyoicl and Sterno-tliyroid muscles THE COMMON CAKOTID AKTEEIES The common carotid arteries pass up deeply from the thorax on either side o, the neck to about the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, where the; divide into the external and internal carotid arteries. The external carotid supplie j the structures at the upper part of the front and side of the neck, the laryns i pharynx, tongue, face, the upper part of the back of the neck, the structures i:| the pterygoid region, the scalp, and in chief part the membranes of the brair The internal carotid gives off no branch in the neck, but enters the craniuri and supplies the greater part of the brain, the structures contained in the orbr and portions of the membranes of the brain. The common carotid artery on the right side arises from the bifurcation (i