295 MORPHOLOGY OF LIGAMENTS ligament represents the tendon of the peroneus longus, which has migrated from the femur to the head of the fibula. One of the most remarkable examples of a tendon divorced in this way is the liga- mentum teres in the hip joint. This curious structure was in all probability the tendon of the pectineus, which has been detached from the muscle in consequence of the profound alterations which have taken place in the limb during its evolution. Among other ligaments derived in a similar way from muscles may be mentioned the greater sacro-sciatic ligament. This was originally the tendon of origin of the biceps femoris. The lesser sacro-sciatic is derived from the fibrous regression of portions of [the coccygeus. The sacro-coccygeal ligaments represent the muscles which lift, depress, and wag the tail in those mammals furnished with such an appendage ; indeed, these ligaments are occasionally replaced by muscle-tissue. I The coraco-hmneral ligament is derived from the original tendon of insertion of the pectoralis minor, and not infrequently the muscle is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, the ligament being then replaced hy the tendon of the muscle. The coraco- clavicular, rhomboid, and gleno-humeral ligaments are probably derived from modifications of the subclavius muscle. The vertebral column contains several ligamentous structures of great morphological interest. The pulpy substance in the centre of each intervertebral disc is derived from the notochord; the suspensory ligament passing from the tip of the odontoid process Uo the anterior margin of the foramen magnum is a remnant of the sheath of the noto- , chord, and indicates its position as it passed from the vertebral column into the base of the j cranium. The transverse ligament of the atlas is a persistent and functional form of the posterior conjugal ligament uniting the rib-heads in seals and many other mammals, I whilst the interosseous ligament of the head of a rib in man is the feeble representative of this structure in the thoracic region of the spine. ji Many of the subcutaneous tracts of fascia and many aponeuroses in the human body are derived from the metamorphosis and regression of muscle-tissue.