THE LYMPHATICS 698 visceral pleura; also some of the lymphatics from the trachea and from the back of the heart and pericardimn, and a few of the efferent vessels of the posterior mediastinal glands. Their efferent vessels, with the efferent vessels of the superior mediastinal or cardiac glands, pass up the sides of the trachea, and on the right side either terminate directly in the right lymphatic duct, or join with the efferent vessels of the intercostal glands to form a common trunk, the broncho-mediastinal trunk, and thus open into the right lymphatic duct«. On the left side they open directly into the thoracic duct, or first form, as on the right side, a broncho- mediastinal trunk. In early life they are of a pinkish colour, but as life advances they become bluish, and later almost black, from the deposit of pigment arrested in them in its passage from the lungs. THE THOKACIC DUCT The thoracic duct begins in the abdomen at the receptaculum chyli opposite the first or second lumbar vertebra, enters the thorax through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, runs up the posterior mediastinum to the right of the aorta, crosses behind the aortic arch, and, leaving the thorax at the superior opening, ascends on the left side of the neck as high as the seventh cervical vertebra, and, finally curving over the apex of the left pleura and subclavian artery, ends in the confluence of the left internal jugular and subclavian veins. The duct is about eighteen inches long, and pursues a tortuous course. It contains many double valves v/hich, when the duct is dilated, cause it to be con- stricted at intervals, and give it somewhat the appearance of a string of beads. The valves are more numerous in the upper than in the lower part of the duct. At its entrance into the innominate vein there are two perfect valves, which efi'ectually prevent any regurgitation of lymph or entrance of blood. The calibre of the duct usually decreases as it ascends through the thorax, but increases again at its upper part. It is least at or about the fifth thoracic vertebra. The thoracic duct conveys the lymph from the lower extremities, the lymph and chyle from the abdomen (except some of the lymph from the convex surface of the liver), the lymph from the left side of the thorax, and some of that from the right side, and the lymph from the left upper extremity and the left side of the head and neck. The relations of the thoracic duct in the abdomen, the thorax, and at the root of the neck, may be considered separately. 1. The abdominal portion of the thoracic duct lies deeply placed behind and between the aorta and the right crus of the diaphragm on the front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra. This part of the duct is dilated into an irregular, sacculated, and fusiform sac, known as the receptaculum chyli, or cistern of Pecquet. It receives the efferent vessels of the lumbar glands, the intestinal lymphatic trunk, and sometimes some of the hepatic and gastric lymphatics. It is thin-walled and contains no valves, and is about an inch and a half long (38 mm.) and about a quarter of an inch in diameter at its widest part (7 mm.). As the duct passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, it still lies to the right of the aorta, and has the vena azygos major to its right side. 2. The thoracic portion of the thoracic duct lies at first in the posterior mediastinum between the aorta and the vena azygos major, in front of the seven lower thoracic vertebrae ; but at the level of the fifth thoracic vertebra it passes to the left behind the oesophagus and aortic arch, and enters the superior mediastinum, whence it escapes through the upper aperture of the thorax into the root of the neck. In the posterior mediastinum it has in front of it, from below upwards, the pericardium, the oesophagus, and the arch of the aorta; behind it, the seven lower