'At 6] •1055(1 1^1 .1 iroi hof i kkli 1011t«l if tall y foniiflt . ;illfj(t '3 lit) dp, Ik* mil!: FiSTra INTEBNUS—CBUBEUS 389 furcation, together with the adjacent external intermuscular septum; (2) the wer part of the anterior intertrochanteric line and the spiral line of the femur; the inner lip of the whole length of the linea aspera and its internal bifur- btion, together with the adjacent part of the internal intermuscular septum, and 16 front of the tendon of the adductor magnus ; (4) the greater part of the front id sides of the femur within the limits formed by the three preceding attachments id the origin of the vastus externus. Insertion.—(1) The posterior aspect of the upper border of the patella; (2) the pper half of the inner border of the patella; (3) by a strong aponeurosis into 16 front of the inner tuberosity of the tibia and into the adjacent deep fascia of L6 leg. Structure.—The fibres of this large muscle arise fleshy from the surface of the mur and converge, from the outer side downwards, forwards, and inwards; from 16 front directly downwards ; from the inner side downwards, forwards, and out- ards, upon the back and sides of a strong aponeurosis which covers the front of the uscle from about the middle of the thigh downwards. The fibres which arise om the tendon of the adductor magnus and the adjacent intermuscular septum rm the lowest part of the thick muscular belly of the vastus internus, and are rected almost transversely outwards to get to their insertion upon the inner border ■ the patella. The substance of the muscle is arranged in layers which wrap round .6 front and sides of the femur ; and between the attachment of these layers to & bone, longitudinal strips of bone may be found upon dissection without any liticular attachment. The deepest of these layers in the lower fourth of the igh forms a separate sheet of muscular fibre, sometimes called the subcrureus, hich is inserted into the upper reflexion of the synovial membrane of the 166 joint. Beneath this muscle is the bursa underneath the quadriceps, which , the adult communicates with the upper part of the knee joint. A somewhat arbitrary division may be made between the vastus internus and ureus by dissecting at the lower third of the thigh in a line with the inner border the patella. With a few touches of the scalpel a longitudinal separation may ) made clear, which extends upwards to the lower part of the anterior inter- ochanteric line. The part of the muscle external to this line is the crureus, and IB part internal the vastus internus. The lig^amentum patellae may be looked upon as the common tendon of the ladriceps. It is a band of fibrous tissue about an inch broad by one-quarter of 1 inch thick, and two or three inches in length, which is attached above to the )ex and to the lower part of the posterior surface of the patella ; and, after passing )wnwards and very slightly outwards, it is inserted into the anterior surface of le tubercle of the tibia. Attached to its sides are strong aponeuroses by which le lower fibres of the vastus externus and vastus internus and the ilio-tibial band '6 inserted into the tuberosities of the tibia, and which blend on their deep surface ith the lower part of the capsule of the knee joint. Nerve-supply.—Numerous branches from the anterior crural are distributed to e upper half of the front of the crureus muscle and to the inner surface of the istus internus at the junction of the middle and lower thirds of the thigh, the srve to the vastus internus being a large and conspicuous branch which lies close I the outer side of the femoral artery in the upper part of Hunter's canal. Action.—The vastus externus, crureus and vastus internus, together with the ctus femoris, extend powerfully the knee. Their intermediate insertion into the samoid bone formed by the patella serves to lift from the line of the tibia the ^amentum patellae, which may be looked upon as the lower part of their common ndon. The enormous power of the whole of this combination of muscles is cessitated partly by the fact that the whole of the weight of the body has to be ised by it, and partly by the great mechanical disadvantage which results from