MENINGES 711 examine the superior longitudinal sinus by laying it open. He should next cut through the dura mater in an antero-posterior direction on each side of the sinus, and then make incisions directed transversely outwards from the central points of the two previous incisions as far as the cut margin of the bone. The four triangular flaps thus mapped out should be turned downwards, and by gently drawing one of the hemispheres aside, the falx cerebri may be seen ifi situ within the great longitudinal fissure, and the veins entering the superior longitudinal sinus may be noted. The falx should then be divided close to its attachment to the crista galli and thrown backwards. The head should next be inclined backwards and the frontal lobes of the brain gently raised. The following structures will then come into view, viz. the olfactory bulbs, the second, third, and fourth nerves, the infundibulum, and the internal carotid arteries. The olfactory bulbs will come away with the brain, but the other structures will require to be divided with scissors, as the nerves are frequently torn away from their connections by using a scalpel for this purpose. The head should next be gently inclined towards the right side, and the tentorium divided close to its attachment to the bone. The sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves should be cut at the same time. This dissection should be repeated on the opposite side. The head should then be tilted backwards, and the remaining cranial nerves, the vertebral arteries, and the commencement of the spinal cord cut through. The latter should be divided as low down as it can be reached with the scalpel. The brain can now be removed from the cranial cavity, the veins of Galen being ruptured by this process. The BUS A MATEE is a tough fibrous membrane of a bluish-white colour present- ing externally a rough appearance, but internally smooth and shining. It performs the double function of a periosteum to the interior of the skull and of affording support and protection to the brain. In correspondence with this double function it may be regarded as consisting of two layers, an outer or periosteal lamina, and an inner or supporting lamina. These layers are inseparable for the greater part of their extent, but along certain lines the inner lamina leaves the periosteal lamina and forms shelf-like projections (of which the falx cerebri and the tentorium cerebelli are examples) into the cranial cavity. Along the lines where these layers divaricate spaces occur which form cranial sinuses. A cranial sinus may be defined as a space formed by the cleavage of the dura mater, lined by a prolongation of the lining membrane of a vein and conveying venous blood. Some of the sinuses are placed between the periosteal and supporting layers of the dura mater—the lateral sinus is a good example of this class. Others (as the straight sinus) are bounded wholly by the inner or supporting layer. The cranial sinuses form two principal systems, which, however, communicate with one another. The following is a list of the sinuses which unite to form the larger of these two systems :—superior longitudinal, inferior longitudinal, straight, occipital, superior petrosal. These form a system which converges at the torcular Herophili, a dilated blood-space situated on the right side (rarely on the left) of the internal occipital protuberance. The blood from the torcular is drained away by the lateral sinuses (more particularly by the right sinus), and leaves the cranium through the posterior compartment of the jugular foramen. The straight sinus usually passes into the left lateral sinus. The smaller system comprises the spheno-parietal, cavernous, circular, transverse, and inferior petrosal sinuses. The blood from this system passes into the internal jugular vein through the anterior compartment of the jugular foramen. A portion of the blood conveyed by the cavernous sinus, however, passes into the lateral sinus through the superior petrosal sinus. Emissary veins.—These veins are possibly extracranial tributaries of the cranial sinuses under normal conditions, but, in cases of engorgement of the sinuses, permit the flow of blood in the opposite direction, and become, in accordance with their name, emissary. The mastoid emissary is the most important of these veins; it passes through the mastoid foramen to enter the lateral sinus, and explains the value of applying leeches behind the ears in cases of cerebral congestion. Two small emissaries enter the superior longitudinal sinus, one of these passes through the foramen caecum; another traverses the parietal foramen. An additional vein occasionally passes to the torcular Herophili through a foramen in the occipital bone near the external occipital protuberance. Emissary veins pass through the foramen ovale and foramen of Vesalius, and place the cavernous sinus in com- munication with the pterygoid venous plexus ; others traverse the cartilage which occupies the foramen lacerum medium. Small veins enter the lateral sinuses through the anterior and posterior condyloid foramina. A minute venous plexus, which accompanies the internal carotid artery through the carotid canal, establishes a communication between the cavernous sinus and the internal jugular vein. (Eektorzik.)