THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM 760 contact with the vessel. On each side of the groove a prominence is formed, where the sagittally-directed fibres of the pyramidal bodies pass brainwards, under cover of the transverse fibres of the pons. The superior border is convex forwards. Its fibres pass directly into the upper border of the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. The inferior border is marked off by a distinct transverse groove from the medulla. It is formed in its inner part by the lowest fibres of the pons, but these are crossed near the junction of pons and middle peduncle by the oblique fasci- culus. The oblique fasciculus is formed by the middle transverse fibres of the pons, which pass downwards and backwards, internal to the exit of the trigeminal nerve, on each side, and cross the inferior fibres on their superficial aspect. j Coronal sections through the pons (fig. 429) show that it comprises two very ! distinct regions—an anterior or ventral region and a dorsal region, which is called | tegmental, as most of its constituents are continued into the tegmentum of the i mesencephalon. The ventral region consists of transverse and longitudinal fibres, | interspersed with small aggregations of grey matter. The transverse fibres are of i three kinds:—(a) Commissural, from hemisphere to hemisphere—these preponderate | on the anterior surface ; (b) decussating fibres, which, after emerging from the j cerebellum by the middle peduncles, cross over to the opposite side and pass i upwards to the cerebrum; (c) fibres which take origin from the grey matter of j the pons, and cross over to the cerebellar hemisphere of the opposite side. These i are probably cerebral fibres which have suffered an interruption in the nerve | cells of the pons. The longitudinal fibres are the upward continuation of the j pyramids. They pass upwards in flattened bundles, separated from one another ' by some of the transverse fibres of the pons. : In the upper or tegmental region the chief things to be observed are: the I tract of the fillet (which lies next to the ventral region), the formatio reticularis, i the posterior longitudinal bundle, the substantia ferruginea, and the funiculus I teres. The superior olivary nucleus, the nuclei of the sixth and seventh cranial j nerves, the motor nucleus of the trigeminal, with parts of the ascending and ; descending roots of the last-named nerve and portions of the nucleus of the ' auditory nerve, are embedded in this region of the pons. j Some of the structures mentioned in the preceding paragraph are visible to the unaided | eye in ordinary dissecting-room specimens. The nuclei of the cranial nerves will not be i further described here, as a full account of them will be given in the section on the cranial : nerves. I I The Metencephalon ! I The MEDULLA OBLONGATA, or bulb, is the portion of the cerebro-spinal axis ' which extends from the inferior border of the pons to the decussation of the pyramids, i It presents an anterior, a posterior, and two lateral surfaces. The anterior surface ! rests upon the basilar groove of the occipital bone, and extends downwards as far \ as the point where the odontoid process is crossed by the transverse ligament of | the atlas (Testut). The bulb has the form of a truncated cone, the base of which I is continued into the pons above, while the truncated apex is prolonged into the i spinal cord below. The posterior surface is received into the vallecula, between the cerebellar hemispheres, and forms, by its upper part, as already described, ' the lower or posterior part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The ninth to the | twelfth nerves (with the exception of the spinal part of the spinal accessory) take j their superficial origin from its sides. The sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves i appear in the transverse groove between the medulla and the pons in numerical order from within outwards. j The ventricular part of the medulla has been already described; but on the j