282 THE ARTICULATIONS \ 1^ outwards and forwards from the conoid tubercle, reaching as far as, and blending with the inferior part of the acromio-clavicular ligament. Its anterior edge is free, and overlies the coraco-acromial ligament ; the posterior edge is shorter than the anterior, and is in contact with the posterior and outer portion of the conoid ligament. The arterial supply is derived from the suprascapular, acromial branches of the acromio-thoracic, and the anterior circumflex. The nerve-supply is derived from the suprascapular and circumflex nerves. Movements.—In the movements of the shoulder girdle, the scapula moves upon! the outer end of the clavicle, and the clavicle, in turn, carried by the uniting ligaments, moves upon the sternum ; so that the entire scapula moves in the arc of a circle whose centre is at the sterno-clavicular joint, and whose radius is thej clavicle. The scapula, in moving upon the clavicle, also moves upon the thorax] forwards and backwards, upwards and downwards, and also in a rotatory direction! upon an axis drawn at right angles to the centre of the bone. Throughout these| movements the lower angle and base of the scapula are kept in contact with thei ribs by the latissimus dor si which straps down the former, and the rhomboids andi serratus magnus which brace down the latter. The glenoid cavity could noti have preserved its obliquely forward direction had there been no acromio-clavicular joint, but would have shifted round a vertical axis, and thus the shoulder wouldj have pointed inwards when the scapula was advanced, and outwards when it was drawn backwards. By means of the acromio-clavicular joint, the scapula can be forcibly advanced upon the thorax, the glenoid cavity all the time keeping its face duly forwards. Thus the muscles of the shoulder and forearm can be with advantage combined, as, for example, in giving a direct blow. The acromio- clavicular joint also permits the lower angle of the scapula to be retained in contact with the chest wall during the rising and falling of the shoulder, the scapula turning in a hinge-like manner round the horizontal axis of the joint. There are no actions in which the scapula moves on a fixed clavicle, or the clavicle on a fixed scapula ; the two bones, bound together by their connecting ligament, must move in unison. I' (c) The Proper Scapular Ligaments • 'v There are three proper ligaments of the scapula, which pass between different portions of the bone, viz.— Coraco-acromial. Transverse. ':, Inferior transverse. The coraco-acromial ligament (figs. 222, 226) is a flat, triangular band with a broad base, attached to the outer border of the coracoid process, and a blunt apex which is fixed to the tip of the acromion. It is made up of two broad marginal bands, and a smaller and thinner intervening portion. The anterior band, which arises from the anterior portion of the coracoid process, is the stronger, and some of its marginal fibres can often be traced into the short head of the biceps, which can then make tense this edge of the ligament. The posterior band, coming from the posterior part of the coracoid process, is also strong. The intermediate part, of variable extent, is thin and membranous, containing but few ligamentous fibres; ; it is often incomplete near the coracoid process, leaving a small gap. The superior ; surface of the ligament looks upwards and a little forwards, and is covered by the! deltoid muscle ; the inferior looks downwards and a little backwards, and is separated from the capsule of the shoulder-joint by a bursa. At the coracoid process it overlies the coraco-humeral ligament. It is barely one-third of an inch