TBOGRLEAB NEBVES 793 pierce the ocular surfaces of the muscles which they supply. The third branch, the nerve to the inferior oblique, is considerably longer than the other two. It runs forwards in the interval between the inferior and external rectus muscles, and pierces the posterior border of the inferior oblique. Near its commencement it gives off the short or motor root to the lenticular ganglion. The third nerve supplies all the orbital muscles, with the exception of the external rectus and the superior oblique. It also supplies (through the lenticular ganglion) the ciliary muscle and the circular fibres of the iris (sphincter iridis). FOURTH OE TROCHLEAR NERVES The fourth or trochlear nerve arises from a column of nerve-cells which is continuous with the nucleus of the third nerve. This column of cells is embedded in the central grey matter below the aqueduct, and extends from the level of the interval between the nates and testes to the lower margin of the latter bodies. Fig. 444.—Sections through the Origin of the Fourth Nerve. (Stilling.) (The upper figure is an oblique section, the lower is a coronal section.) AQUEDUCT OF SYLVIUS NUCLEUS OF FOURTH- NERVE POSTERIOR LONGI-- TUDINAL BUNDLE RAPHE- ■AQUEDUCT OF SYLVIUS SUPERIOR CEREBELLAR PEDUNCLE .FILLET The nerve-fibres issuing from this elongated nucleus form two or three rounded bundles, which run downwards, backwards, and slightly outwards along the outer j side of the nucleus, and then incline inwards to reach the valve of Vieussens, in the substance of which they decussate with their fellows of the opposite side and become collected into a single bundle (fig. 444). This bundle emerges as a slender I rounded fasciculus (superficial origin) from the valve of Vieussens, close to the frenulum veli, immediately below the testes, and winds round the crus cerebri to appear at the base of the brain near the anterior margin of the pons. The right nerve, therefore, arises from the left nucleus and vice versa. I The fourth nerve pierces the dura mater at a point a little behind and external I to the posterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone in the postero-external angle [ of the triangular space which has been described in connection with the third nerve. It runs forwards in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, being placed between the third nerve which is above and internal to it, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, which is situated below and to its outer side. As it