706 THE NEBVOUS SYSTEM (1) The frontal nerve is the largest branch of the ophthahnic division. It passes forwards and upwards on the inner side of the third nerve, and enters the orbit immediately external to, and a little below, the fourth nerve. It passes forwards between the periosteum of the orbit and the levator palpebrjB superioris muscle, and, a little behind the middle of the orbit, divides into two branches, termed the supra()rl)ital and supratrochlear. (2) The supraorbital nerve leaves the orbit by passing through the supraorbital notch or foramen, where it gives twigs to the upper eyelid, and turns upwards on the frontal bone, accompanied by the supraorbital artery. It divides into two branches, an external and an internal. Both these branches divide into several twigs, which pass very obliquely through the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis muscle, and supply the integument of the forehead and fore part of the scalp. The external branch, which is considerably larger than the internal, may be traced backwards nearly as far as the lambdoidal suture. (8) The supratrochlear nerve is directed forw^ards and inwards above the pulley of the superior oblique muscle. It communicates with the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve and turns upwards on the forehead, accompanied by the frontal Fig. 445.—Nerves of the Orbit, from the Outer Side. (From Sappey, after Hirschfeld and Leveille.) LENTICULAR GANGLION SUPERIOR DIVISION OF THE TIIIRI) NERVE SUPRAonniTAL NEll) E SHORT CILIARY NER VES BRAN( II or Til I III) TO INEEIUOR oULiqUE SHORT ROOT OF LENTICULAR GANGLION NASAL BRANCH OF OPHTHALMIC LONG ROOT OF LENTICULAR GANGLION OPTIC NER VE THIRD NERVE HINTH NERVE GA SSERIA N GA NGLION {-^OPHTHALMIC DIVISION OF FIFTH NER VE SYMPA THETIC ROOT OF LENTICULAR GANGLION artery. It is much smaller than the supraorbital nerve, and it is distributed to a small area of integument around the glabella. It gives twigs to the inner part of the upper eyelid. (4) The lachrymal nerve is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic division. It passes through the sphenoidal fissure external to and slightly below the frontal nerve, and is directed forwards and outwards along the upper border of the external rectus muscle to the lachrymal gland. Immediately behind the lachrymal gland it communicates with the temporal branch of the orbital nerve, forming a loop convex forwards ; from this loop and from the adjacent part of the trunk of the nerve a number of twigs pass into the gland substance. A small twig passes beyond the gland and is distributed to the integument and conjunctiva at the outer canthus of the eye. (5) The nasal nerve enters the orbit by passing forwards between the superior and inferior divisions of the third nerve, and takes an oblique course forwards and inwards to reach the inner wall of the orbit. In this course it passes between the optic nerve and the superior rectus muscle. It then passes through the anterior internal orbital canal, accompanied by the anterior ethmoidal vessels, crosses the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone under cover of the dura mater, and enters