1033 THE INTESTINAL CANAL teric artery (2, fig. 597), which must still run between these two segments of the bowel, will now be described as passing over the duodenum, or as crossing its anterior surface. It is needless to say that in the fully-developed body this artery crosses the left end of the third part of the duodenum, and is behind the right end of the transverse colon. It will be seen that, in spite of this revolution, the duodenum and the transverse colon still retain their relations to one another, and still mark the neck or pedicle of attachment of the common mesenteric fold. The effect of this rotation of the intestinal tube is shown in the diagram on the next page (fig. 597). The caecum and ascending colon are now moved to the right; the transverse colon is more distinctly transverse ; the small intestine has passed over to the left side. The right side of the mesentery has become the left side, and vice versa; and the vasa intestini tenuis now appear to arise from the left border of the superior Fig. 596.—Alimentary Canal of Choloepus Hoffmann/. COLON PYLORUS mesenteric artery instead of from the right (fig. 597). The duodenum is almost aidden from view, and has been brought into close contact with the vertebral 3olumn. The descending colon remains unchanged, and is supported by the 5till undisturbed median fold of peritoneum. The duodenum still has a meso-duodenum, and is still entirely invested by peritoneum. In man further changes take place, but in mammals below man the condition lust described is that which represents the normal arrangement. Fig. 597 may be 'considered to represent in diagrammatic fashion the simple intestine of a carnivorous animal. In the human subject even development may not proceed beyond this point, and he condition detailed may be met with in the adult as a permanent arrangement. I lave described some examples of this (' The Anatomy of the Intestinal Canal and Peritoneum in Man,' London, 1885 ; and 'Lancet,' Oct. 13,1888). In these instances