THE MUSCLES 404 1. FLEXOR ACCESSORIUS DIGITORUM PEDIS The flexor accessorius digitorum pedis—named from its accessory or supple- mentary action in assisting the flexion of the toes by the flexor longus digitorum— is a double-headed quadrilateral sheet. Origin.—Inner head: The whole of the concave inner surface of the calcaneum below the groove for the flexor longus hallucis. Outer head: (1) The junction of the lower and outer surfaces of the calcaneum| in front of the lesser tubercle; (2) the under surface of the back part of the longi plantar ligament. Insertion.—The upper surface and outer border of the flexor longus digitorum 1 tendon about midway between the tubercles of the calcaneum and the heads of the; metatarsal bones. I Structure.—Its inner head consists of fleshy fll)res which converge from their! origin in a somewhat fan-shaped sheet, and are joined shortly before their insertioiii into the tendon by the outer head, which consists of a pointed tendinous origin,: from which the fleshy fibres form a somewhat smaller fan-shaped sheet which blends with that from the inner head, to be inserted by fleshy fibres upon the upperi surface and outer border of the flexor longus digitorum, at its point of division into the tendons for the four outer toes. Nerve-supply.—From the external plantar division of the posterior tibial nerve,j by branches which enter the under surface of the muscle near its origin. > Action.—To help in the flexion of the last phalanges of the four outer toes,j and at the same time to draw the toes somewhat outwards. On account of the oblique direction of the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum in the foot, they! would tend in flexing the toes to draw them at the same time inwards. Thigs tendency will be somewhat neutralised by the simultaneous contraction of the accessorius. The accessorius will also be able to flex the toes when, on account oJ' the extension of the ankle joint, the muscular fibres of the flexor longus digitormx are so relaxed as to be incapable of action. j Relations.—Superficially, the tendons of the flexor longus digitorum ancl flexor longus hallucis, with the external plantar vessels and nerve ; deeply, th(: flexor brevis hallucis and long plantar ligament. ; Variations.—An additional head may arise above the ankle from the flexor longmi digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, or soleus. Sometimes the outer head is wantmg, anc occasionally the whole muscle is absent. The distribution of its fibres to the tendons o:j the long flexor is very variable. It may send fibres to the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. 2. THE FOUR LUMBRICALES The four lumbricales—named from their shape (lumbricus = nn earthworm)-i are, like those in the palm, four small fusiform muscles. Origin.— The first, from the inner border of the innermost tendon of the flexoi longus digitorum, from the point of division of the main tendon for about an incl; forwards ; the other three, from the adjacent surfaces of the tendons of the firs! and second, the second and third, and the third and fourth tendons of the flexo i longus digitorum on their plantar aspect. Insertion.—The inner border of the expansion of the extensor longus digitoruu' tendon upon the back of the first phalanx of each of the four outer toes. Structure.—The origin of the muscle is entirely fleshy. It ends in a smal rounded tendon a short distance above the web of the toes. This tendon run forwards and upwards upon the inner side of its toe, above the superficial transvers