134 THE SKELETON an aponeurosis, from which flexor and extensor carpi ulnaris and the flexor \ ■profundus digitoriim muscles arise. Of the three surfaces, the anterior hes between the anterior and interosseous borders ; it is concave for the greater part of its extent. The upper three-fourths gives origin to the flexor profundus digitormn, the lower fourth to iYiQ pronator quadratics ; the upper limit of the surface for the pronator is sometimes indicated by a transverse ridge. The internal surface is bounded by the anterior and posterior borders. The upper three-fourths is occupied by the flexor profundus digitorum the remainder is subcutaneous. The posterior surface lies between the interosseous and posterior borders. Its upper fourth is marked off by an oblique ridge running from the lesser sigmoid cavity to the posterior border. The surface above the line receives the insertion of the anconeus ; from the line itself a few fibres of supinator brevis arise. The surface below the oblique line is subdivided by a vertical ridge the portion lying between this ridge and the posterior border is in relation with the extensor carpi ulnaris. Between this line and the interosseous border the: following muscles arise in order from above downwards : extensor-ossis metacarpi poinds, the extensor secundi internodii poUicis, and the extensor indicis. The lower extremity of the ulna is of small size and consists of two parts, a head and styloid process, separated from each other, on the under surface, by a groove into which an interarticular cartilage is inserted. That part of the head adjacent to the groove is semilunar in shape and plays upon the interarticular cartilage which excludes it from the wrist-joint. The margin of the head is also semilunar, and is received into the sigmoid cavity of the radius. The styloid process projects from the inner and back part of the bone, and appears as a continuation of the posterior border. To its extremity the internal lateral ligament is attached, and its posterior surface is grooved for the passage of the tendon of the extensor carpi ulnaris. Muscles.—The following are attached to the ulna : — Triceps. Anconeus. Brachialis anticus. Pronator quadratus. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor profundus digitorum. Flexor longus poUicis. Ligaments :— Internal lateral of elbow. Anterior of elbow. Posterior of elbow. Orbicular. Oblique. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. Extensor indicis. Pronator radii teres. Supinator brevis. Extensor carpi ulnaris. Interosseous membrane. Anterior radio-ulnar. Posterior radio-ulnar. Internal lateral of wrist-joint. Interarticular fibro-cartilage. Blood-supply.—The nutrient vessel enters the shaft near the middle of the anterior surface ; it is derived from the anterior interosseous trunk, and is directed towards the proximal end. The upper extremity receives branches from the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent and from the interosseous recurrent. The lower end receives twigs from the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. Ossification.—The ulna is ossified from three centres. The primary nucleus appears near the middle of the shaft in the eighth week of embryonic life. At birth the greater portion of the olecranon process is cartilaginous. During the fourth year a nucleus appears for the distal epiphysis. The cartilaginous olecranon is mainly ossified from the shaft, and in the course of the tenth year a scale-like epiphysis appears at its summit. This unites during the sixteenth year. The distal epiphysis consolidates about the eighteenth year.