THE MUSCLES 394 i Second Layer The second layer is formed above by the pophteus, which is covered behind by the aponeurosis derived from the semi-membranosus ; and below by the soleus, which is the lower head of the great triceps sur^e muscle. 1. POPLITEUS The popliteus (fig. 292)—named from its position on the floor of the ham (= poples)—is a triangular sheet. Origin.—The bottom of the anterior portion of a horizontal groove on the lower part of the outer surface of the external condyle of the femur ; also by a small shp from the posterior ligament of the knee joint. Insertion.—(1) The back of the tibia from below the attachment of the pos- terior ligament of the knee joint to the oblique line ; (2) the fascia derived from the tendon of the semi-membranosus, which covers the posterior surface of the muscle. Structure.—Arising by a somewhat flattened cylindrical tendon which passes at first bacliwards and slightly downwards within the knee joint, grooving th( posterior border of the external semilunar cartilage ; it then escapes from the capsuk of the knee joint, receiving a small slip from the posterior ligament, and immediateh expands into a fan-shaped muscle which forms a thick sheet, covering the uppeij fourth of the back of the tibia, and is inserted by fleshy fibres into the pouch formec by the bone in front and the aponeurosis derived from the semi-membranosus behind The tendon of origin is surrounded by synovial membrane, which is reflected upoi it about half an inch beyond the opening, through which it emerges from ih posterior ligament of the knee joint. Nerve-supply.—From the sacral plexus by the internal popliteal division of thi great sciatic nerve, which sends a special branch round the lower border of th muscle to distribute itself to the lower part of its deep or anterior surface. Action.—To flex the knee, which it will do but feebly on account of the obliquitj of its direction and its proximity to the axis of the joint. When the knee is flexes it will act as an internal rotator of the leg. In this position the tendon of origij lies wholly in the groove for its reception upon the outer surface of the externa condyle. It is possible that the attachment of the tendon of origin to the posterio ligament of the knee may enable the muscle when it contracts to draw backward the ligament, and so prevent the synovial membrane upon its anterior aspec from being nipped between the articular surfaces. Relations.—Behind, the aponeurosis of the semi-membranosus, the gastrc cnemius, plantaris, and the popliteal vessels, nerves, and glands. In front, th knee joint. Superficial to the tendon of origin is the external lateral ligament ( the knee. Variations.—A second head of origin has been seen from a sesamoid bone in the out(; tendon of the gastrocnemius. 2. SOLEUS The soleus—named from solea, the Latin for a sole-fish, because of the resen blance of the muscle to this fiat fish—is a thick, fusiform sheet. Origin.—(1) The oblique line of the tibia and the inner border of its posteritj surface, from the lower end of the oblique line to a little below the middle of tli