GBEAT PBEVEBTEBBAL PLEXUSES 869 LUMBAR PORTION OF THE GANGLIATED CORD The lumbar part of the gang^liated cord consists of a chain of ganglia, usually four in number, which are placed in front of the bodies of the vertebrae, close to the anterior border of the psoas muscle. On the right side the cord is covered by the vena cava, and on the left side it is behind and external to the aorta. Above, it is continuous Avith the thoracic part of the cord. Below, it is continued into the sacral part of the cord by passing behind the common iliac vessels. The rami communicantes are longer in this part of the gangliated cord than in any other region of the body. Usually two rami pass from each ganglion backwards through the fibrous arches from which the psoas takes origin, and join the lumbar nerves in a somewhat variable manner. In this course they are accompanied by the lumbar arteries. Branches.—Some of the branches join the aortic plexus ; others pass in front of the common iliac arteries to form the hypogastric plexus. SACRAL PORTION OF THE GANGLIATED CORD The sacral part of the gangliated cord consists of a chain of four small gangha, which is placed in front of the sacrum internal to the anterior sacral foramina. From the lowest of these ganglia, branches proceed on each side which converge to a median ganglion (ganglion impar) which is situated in front of the last piece of the sacrum or the first piece of the coccyx. These ganglia are connected in a somewhat irregular manner to the sacral nerves by rami communicantes. The rami communicantes are very short in this region. Branches.—From the upper sacral ganglia branches are given off which join the pelvic plexuses. Others pass across the sacrum to join corresponding branches from the cord of the opposite side. From the ganglion impar twigs pass down- wards to enter the coccygeal body. 1 THE GREAT PREVERTEBRAL PLEXUSES [ \ The great prevertebral plexuses, as we have already noticed, are the cardiac, I solar, and hypogastric. They are formed mainly by branches derived from the I gangliated cords, but also receive fibres from the cerebro-spinal nerves; thus the cardiac plexus and solar plexuses are joined by branches of the pneumogastric, and the hypogastric plexus is joined by branches of the third and fourth and sometimes the second sacral nerves. CARDIAC PLEXUS I We have already noticed that each pneumogastric nerve gives off two or \ three cervical cardiac branches and a thoracic cardiac branch, and that additional branches may spring from the recurrent laryngeal nerve. We have also seen that three cardiac nerves arise from the cervical sympathetic cord on each side. These nerves all proceed to the cardiac plexus, but their course and arrangement is extremely variable. It is very common to find the upper cervical cardiac branches I of the vagus and sympathetic unite to form a common trunk ; in other cases the I nerves branch and communicate with one another in a plexiform manner. The I cardiac plexus, although forming a continuous network of nerves, is for convenience ! divided into a superficial and a deep plexus. The superficial plexus is situated I immediately below the arch of the aorta, internal to the ductus arteriosus ; it receives the left superior cardiac nerve of the sympathetic and the left inferior cervical cardiac branch of the pneumogastric. The deep cardiac plexus is placed