SECTION IV AETERIES, VEINS, AND LYMPHATICS By W. J. WALSHAM, F.E.C.S. SENIOR ASSISTANT SUK(JEON TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL ; LECTURER ON ADVANCE]) AXATOJtY IN .ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL MEDICAL SCHOOL, ETC., ETC. THE APiTEEIES rHE arteries are divided into the pulmonary and the systemic. The puhnonary convey the blood from the right ventricle of the heart to the lungs, whence is returned, when aerated, by the pulmonary veins to the left auricle, and through lat cavity into the left ventricle. The systemic arteries carry the blood from the )ft ventricle all over the body, whence it is returned by the veins to the right iiiricle, and through it to the right ventricle. The lungs also receive blood from the /stemic arteries—the bronchial. This blood which serves for the nourishment of 16 larger and smaller branches of the bronchial tubes and the lung substance is ^turned, in part by the bronchial veins to the general venous circulation, and thence ) the right side of the heart; and in part by the pulmonary veins, along with the srated blood, to the left side of the heart. THE PULMONARY ARTERY The pulmonary artery (fig. 317) passes from the right ventricle to the lungs, i differs from all other arteries in the body in that it contains venous blood. It rises as a short, thick trunk from the upper and front part of the right ventricle aown as the conns arteriosus, and, after a course of about two inches within the sricardium—the serous layer of which membrane forms a common sheath for it ad the aorta—divides into a right and left branch, which pierce the pericardium, ad pass to the right and left lung respectively. The trunk of the pulmonary artery at its origin (fig. 319) is on a plane Qterior to the first portion of the arch of the aorta, and slightly overlaps that vessel, 'hence it passes upwards, backwards, and to the left, forming a slight curve round 16 front and left side of the ascending portion of the aorta (fig. 321); and, ha\ing iached the concavity of the transverse portion of the aortic arch, on a level with the fth thoracic vertebra, and on a plane posterior to the ascending aorta, it di\^des into s right and left branches, which diverge from each other at an angle of about 130°. ' In the foetus, the pulmonary artery (fig. 318) continues its course upwards, back- ards, and to the left, under the name of the ductus arteriosus, or ductus Botalli,