560 THE ARTERIES radius, into the radial and ulnar arteries. The artery is situated at first internal the humerus; but as it passes down the arm it gradually gets in front of the bor and at the bend of the elbow lies midway between the two condyles (fig. 35( Hence, in controlling haemorrhage, the artery should be compressed outwar against the bone in its upper third, outwards and backwards in its middle thii and directly backwards in its lower third. Throughout the greater part of ] course the artery is superficial, being merely overlapped slightly on its outer si by the coraco-brachiahs and biceps muscles ; but at the bend of the elbow it sin deeply beneath the semilunar fascia of the biceps into the triangular interv; bounded on either side by the supinator longus and pronator radii teres, and at i Fig. 351.—The Brachial Artery at the Bend of the Elbow. POSTERIOR BRANCH OF INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE ANTERIOR BRANCH OF INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE BRANCH TO PRONATOR TERES Bicipital fascia, cut MEDIAN NERVE~\ BRANCH OF MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE TO S UPINA TOR L ONG US RADIAL NERVE Radial recurrent artery and POSTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS NERVE MUSCULO- CUTANEO US NER VE bifurcation is more or less under cover of these muscles (fig. 351). A line dra from midway between the folds of the axilla at the outer side of that space midway between the condyles of the humerus, will indicate its course. It accompanied by two veins which frequently communicate across the artery. Relations.—In front, the artery is covered by the integuments and superficial a deep fasciae, and at the bend of the elbow by the semilunar fascia of the biceps, and ii muscular subjects by the overlapping margins of the supinator longus and pronal' radii teres. In the middle third of the arm it is crossed obliquely from with(jl; inwards by the median nerve, and at the bend of the elbow by the median has vein, the bicipital fascia intervening (fig. 357). Behind, it lies successively on the long head of the triceps (from which it