FACIAL / 517 .ternal and external carotids, and then between the stylo-giossus and stylo-pharyn- hus muscles, and on reaching the wall of the pharynx is continued upwards between lie superior constrictor and internal pterygoid muscles towards the base of the skull ; high as the levator palati, where it divides into two branches, a palatine and a >nsillar. One of these brandies, the palatine, passes with the levator palati over tie curved upper margin of the superior constrictor to the soft palate, where it is jstributed to the tissues constituting that structure, and anastomoses with its How of the opposite side and with the descending palatine branch of the internal laxillary, and the ascending pharyngeal, which vessel often to a great extent ipplies the place of this artery. The other branch, the tonsillar, supplies the nsil and the Eustachian tube, anastomosing with the tonsillar branch of the facial id ascending pharyngeal arteries. The ascending palatine artery supplies the luscles between which it runs on its way to the palate. i (2) The tonsillar branch (hg. 334) ascends between the stylo-glossus and internal jerygoid muscles to the level of the tonsil, where it perforates the superior con- dctor muscle of the pharynx, and ends in the tonsil, anastomosing with the tonsillar anch of the ascending palatine and with the other tonsillar arteries (fig. 333). gives branches also to the root of the tongue. ; (3) The glandular or submaxillary branches are distributed to the submaxil jry giand as the artery is passing through or beneath that structure. A small ig from one of these branches usually supplies Wharton's duct. > (4) The muscular branches are small twigs given off irregularly to the contiguous :ascles, viz. the posterior belly of the digastric, the stylo-hyoid, the stylo-glossus, iid the mylo-hyoid muscles. \ (5) The submental branch (fig. 334) comes off from the facial as the latter vessel ]|!s under cover of the submaxillary gland, and, passing forwards on the mylo-hyoid iliscle between the base of the jaw and the anterior belly of the digastricus, iipplies these structures and the overlying platysma and integuments. It gives (j the followung small branches :—(a) muscular, to the muscles between which it ]QS; [b) perforating, which passes through the mylo-hyoid to anastomose with I3 sublingual; (c) cutaneous, to the integuments covering it; {d) mental, which 1ms over the border of the lower jaw near the symphysis, and, after supplying a Imch to the depressor labii inferioris, the levator menti, and the other adjacent ^[t tissues forming the chin and lip, anastomoses with the mental branch of the i'erior dental, the inferior labial, and the artery of the opposite side. \ Beanches of the Facial Arteey on the Face From the outer or concave side of the artery are given off:—(1) masseteric hnches which ascend over the masseter to anastomose with the masseteric Unch of the internal maxillary artery and the transverse facial artery; and (2) Iccal, which pass upwards over the buccinator and anastomose with the buccal hnchof the internal maxillary, the transverse facial, and the infraorbital arteries. From the inner or convex side the following larger and named vessels are given c:—(1) The inferior labial; (2) the inferior coronary ; (3) the superior coronary ; ( the lateralis nasi; and (5) the angular. (1) The inferior labial artery arises either separately from the facial artery, or ij common with the next branch—the inferior coronary. It courses forwards t!ieath the depressor anguli oris, and over the depressor labii inferioris, and, after sl)plying the contiguous muscles and integuments, anastomoses below with the sbmental, above with the inferior coronary, and between the two with the mental l\nGh of the inferior dental which escapes from the mental foramen. (2) The inferior coronary artery arising from the facial a little above the i