439 SPLENIUS CAPITIS The back muscles proper may be arranged according to their direction into 3W0 great divisions, each of which contains two classes. The vertical division 3onsists of muscles which run between similar points of bone, and its two classes will contain the spinales, which connect the spines of the vertebra to one another md to the mesial portion of the occipital bone ; the transversales, which connect jhe transverse processes of the sacral and lumbar regions with the transverse orocesses and the adjacent portions of the ribs in the thoracic region, the articular md transverse processes in the cervical region, and the mastoid process at the iipper end of the spinal column. The oblique division consists of muscles which run obliquely, and contains two classes: the spino-transversales, which run upwards and outwards from spine to transverse process, or to a point of bone jwhich corresponds to a transverse process, e.g. the mastoid process; and the \iTansverso-sjpi7iales, which run upwards and inwards from transverse process to 3pine. The action of these muscles will be easily ascertained by observing to which blass they belong. The spinales will simply extend, w^hile the transversales will produce lateral flexion as well as extension. The oblique, in addition to 3xtension and lateral -flexion, will also produce rotation wherever the ligaments ja-nd processes of the vertebrae permit of this movement. I I Fourth Layer j The fourth layer of the muscles of the back consists of two muscles, which are closely connected with each other, and belong to the spino-transver sails class of [the oblique division. 1 AND 2. SPLENIUS The splenitis (fig. 305)—named from Q-irXrjviov a bandage, probably on account of the way in which it crosses over and binds down the complexus and other juiuscles—is a broad four-sided sheet, divided into two parts at its insertion : the one part being the splenius capitis, and the other the splenins colli. (1) Splenius Capitis Origin.—(1) The lower two-thirds of the ligamentum nuchse ; (2) the spines of the seventh cervical and upper two thoracic vertebrae, and the interspinous ligaments between them. Insertion.—The outer third of the middle nuchal line of the occipital bone, md the back part of the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Structure.—^Arising by a short tendinous aponeurosis, the fleshy fibres pass upwards and outwards parallel to each other, and are inserted by short tendinous fibres, except along the anterior border, where the tendon of insertion extends more than an inch downwards. Nerve-supply.—The external branches of the posterior primary divisions of [the middle cervical nerves which enter the outer part of the deep surface of the [muscle. Action.—(1) To extend the head and neck; (2) to flex them laterally ; (3) to rotate the face to the same side.