388 THE MUSCLES Seen from the front, these fleshy fibres appear to diverge on both sides from tl upper expansion, and, after passing round the border of tlie muscle, they convert upon the tendon of insertion so as to give the muscle a bipenniform appearance. Nerve-supply.—From the lumbar plexus (through the second, third, and four! lumbar nerves), by the anterior crural nerve which sends filaments to the posteri( aspect of the muscle in the upper half of its course. Action.—To assist in the powerful extension of the knee by the quadriceps, will also help in flexion of the hip ; and it will be a powerful agent in preventii dislocation of the head of the femur. When the hip-joint is flexed, the muscle w act chiefly from its posterior head ; but when the hip is extended, the anterior he; of the muscle will act with more power. Relations.—In front lie the sartorius, tensor vaginae femoris, and the fascia lat; behind, it lies on the hip joint and the crureus muscle ; upon its inner border abo is the iliacus ; and outside it lie the gluteus medius and minimus. (b) Vastus Exteenus The vastus externus—named from its great size and its position upon the oii1 • surface of the thigh—is a thick rhomboidal sheet. Orig^in.—(1) The upper half of the anterior intertrochanteric line and the frc of the upper part of the femur along the anterior border of the great trochante; (2) a horizontal line which forms the lower border of the great trochanter; (3) tjs outer lip of the gluteal ridge ; (4) the upper half of the outer lip of the linea aspel and the adjacent portion of the shaft of the femur for about one-sixth of aninc'i; (5) the external intermuscular septum in the neighbourhood of its attachment > the linea aspera. j Insertion.—(1) The outer half of the upper border of the patella, behind tl preceding tendon, with which it also blends ; (2) the upper third of the outer borcj: of the patella ; (3) by an aponeurosis which is inserted partly into the front of t.) external tuberosity of the tibia, partly into the deep fascia of the leg. Structure.—Arising partly directly from the bone, and partly by a strong a' neurosis which covers the outer surface of the muscle in its upper two-thir the fleshy fibres run parallel to one another downwards, forwards, and inwards, jt the same time curving slightly as they pass over the rounded mass formed by crureus muscle. The aponeurosis of insertion lies upon the inner surface of muscle and receives fleshy fibres to within one inch of its insertion into the pate i and its blending with the other tendons of the quadriceps muscle. Upon is anterior surface it unites with the tendon of the rectus muscle, and upon is posterior surface is received a part of the insertion of the crureus. Nerve-supply.—From the anterior crural (through the second, third, f|d fourth lumbar nerves), by several branches which enter the internal surface of p muscle in the upper third of the thigh. j Action and relations.—These will be considered with those of the two follow|g muscles. 1 (c, cl) Vastus Inteenus and Ceueeus The vastus internus and crureus are so closely blended that it is bette] describe their origins together before mentioning the way in which they may separated. They have received their names, the former from its size and positi(]; the latter from its intimate connexion with the whole of the front of the thigh bcj?, the term ' crus ' being often used synonymously with the femur. The blen jd muscle is a somewhat fusiform sheet which is so curved laterally as to fori cylinder embracing the whole of the front and sides of the shaft of the femur. Origin.—(1) The outer lip of the lower half of the linea aspera and its extei