rOSTEBIOB DIVISIONS OF SPINAL NERVES 827 between the posterior arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery, and traverses the fatty tissue which occupies the triangular space bounded by the obliquus superior, the obliquus inferior, and the rectus capitis posticus major. It gives a twdg to each of these three muscles, another twig crosses the deep surface of the rectus capitis posticus major to reach the rectus capitis posticus minor. Another twig forms a communicating loop wdth the great occipital nerve on the posterior surface of the obliquus inferior. A branch is also furnished to the complexus. In a few cases it gives a cutaneous tmg to the back of the occiput. The posterior division of the second cervical nerve divides into a small external and a very large internal branch. The external branch gives a twig to the obliquus inferior, and ends in the complexus and trachelo-mastoid muscles. The internal branch is the great occipital nerve. It gives off communicating branches which pass upwards and downwards, forming loops with the first and second cervical nerves. In this manner a small plexus (posterior cervical plexus of Cruveilhier) is formed. The great occipital nerve is then directed upwards, crossing the triangular space described in connection with the first nerve, and being covered by the complexus. It gives one or two twigs to the latter muscle, and then pierces it to reach the deep surface of the trapezius. It joierces the outer border of the trapezius immediately below the superior curved line, and divides at acute angles into a number of branches, which ramify in the scalp. These branches communi- cate freely with the lesser occipital nerve, and run in the subcutaneous fat between the skin and the occipito-frontalis. In this situation they are accompanied by branches of the occipital artery. They supply the integument which covers the portion of the occipital bone above the superior curved line, and the posterior part of the parietal bone. THORACIC NERVES.—The posterior primary divisions of the thoracic nerves pass backwards betAveen the transverse processes of the thoracic vertebrse, and divide into internal and external branches. The internal branches become progressively smaller from the second to the last of the series. The external branches show a reciprocal increase in size. The internal branches pass to the inner side of the longissimus dorsi, giving branches to that muscle and to the spinalis dorsi, semispinalis, multifidus spin^e, rotatores spinje, intertransversales, and interspinals. Large branches from the upper six or seven nerves reach the surface by piercing the origin of the trapezius close to the spinous processes of the vertebrae. They run outwards in the super- ficial fascia, and supply the integument of the back, including the skin over the inner half of the infraspinous part of the dorsum scapulae and the integument over the supraspinous fossa. The cutaneous branch of the second nerve is the largest of the series. From the lower five or six nerves small twigs usually reach the surface and become cutaneous. The external branches of the upper six or seven nerves end in the accessorius and longissimus dorsi muscles. The lower five or six, after supplying the adjacent muscles, pierce the outer series of insertions of the longissimus dorsi, and appear in the interval between that muscle and the accessorius. They then pierce the latissimus dorsi, and are distributed to the integument on the lower and outer part of the back. LUMBAR NERVES.—The internal branches of all the lumbar nerves end in the multifidus spinfe. The external branches of the upper three nerves, after supplying twigs to the adjacent muscles, pierce the posterior layer of the lumbar aponeurosis at the outer border of the erector spinae. The three nerves cross the crest of the ilium and occupy different planes in the thick superficial fascia w^hich covers the upper part of the gluteus medius. The branch from the first nerve is comparatively small, and occupies the most superficial plane. The second occupies an intermediate