THE PEBINMUM PBOPEB 1105 he penile muscles, and anterior or superficial to the scrotal and perinaeal integument; he latter piercing the fascia of Colles and the scrotal investment continuous with t to reach the skin. The superficial perinfeal interspace then may be said to contain the root of the lenis, Avith the muscles, vessels, and nerves connected with it. Inferior triang^ular ligament (' the anterior layer of the triangular ligament') jfig. 652).—On removing the contents of the superficial interspace the dissector ixposes the under surface of the inferior or superficial triangular ligament. This tructure forms almost a horizontal plane in the erect posture of the body, nd consists of strong bands of fibrous tissue, running for the most part in a cansverse direction across the subpubic arch to be attached firmly to the ischio- ubic rami above the line of attachment of the fascia of Colles and of the penile luscles. Anteriorly, it is separated from the subpubic ligament by an interval i^hich transmits the dorsal vein of the penis ; posteriorly, it blends with the fascia of Fig. 655. BLADDER UVULA VESIC/E -Vertical Frontal Section of the Pelvis, showing Fasciae. (Modified from Braune.) PROSTATE t-M- VERUMONTANUM Levator ani MEMBRANOUS URETHRA Piidic vessels- PUBIC ARCH iscia of iscMo- eavernosus CRUS PENIS BULB BULBO-CAVER- NOSUS WITH ITS FASCIA Entegument of perinseum Subperitoneal fat Obturator internus IscMo-reetal fascia OS INNOMINATUM Keeto-vesieal fascia, parietal and visceral layers Obturator fascia Obturator membrane SCHIO-RECTAL FOSSA Deep triangular lig. Deep transversus perinsei Superficial triangular ligament Muscles of thigh. -Isehio-cavernosus Muscles of thigh [oUes and with the superior triangular ligament to form the hinder border of the [eringeal ledge ; and superiorly it is intimately related to the deep transversus perin^i mscle. It is pierced by :—(1) The urethra, about an inch and a quarter below the l^mphysis ; (2) the ducts of Cowper's glands, one on each side of the posterior I art of the urethral openings ; (3) the arteries of the bulb, somewhat external to le last; (4) the arteries to the corpora cavernosa, more anteriorly and close to lie lateral attachment of the ligament; (5) the dorsal arteries and nerves of the ienis, at the margins of the ligament near its apex. The dorsal vein with some ccompanying lymphatics runs through the interspace between the triangular nd subpubic ligaments (fig. 654). Deep perinseal interspace (figs. 620, 652, 654).—If the superficial triangular gament be now detached, the deep perinaeal interspace will be laid open. This pace is somewhat wedge-shaped in sagittal section, in consequence of the manner 1 which the two triangular ligaments approach each other before their union t the posterior border of the perineal ledge. It is occupied by the following fcructures:—■ 4 B