1152 SUBGICAL AND TOPOGBAPHIGAL ANATOMY ! perinffii muscle, base of triangular ligament (anterior layer), membranous urethra and deep muscles, a venous plexus, posterior layer of triangular ligament, prostatic! urethra, and left lobe of prostate and its capsule in part, v/ith some of the fibres! of the levator prostatse. In median lithotomy, an incision an inch and a half| long is made through the central tendinous point and raphe, so as to hit the I membranous urethra. The following structures are divided :—Skin and fasciae ;j some of the most anterior fibres of the sphincter ani; raphe and central tendinous; point; minute branches of transverse perinseal vessels and nerves ; base of triangulai ligament in centre ; membranous urethra and compressor urethr£e. \ The urethra.—This can be examined in part with the finger, but much better with the aid of a sound. The anterior, or penile, part- is movable ; the posterior, or deeper,! Fig. 697.—The Arteries of the Perin^eum. ' On the right side Colles's fascia has been turned back to show the superficial vessels. Onthd left side the superficial vessels have been cut away with the anterior layer of the triangulai ligament to show the deep vessels. Superficial perinceal vessels Accelerator urinsc Colles's fascia, ttirned back Erector penis Transverse perinceal vessels Cut edg-e of triangular ligament SUPERFICIAL PERINCEAL NERVE Pudic vessels- Transverse perinatal vessels and nerve Gluteus maximus hooked back Cr us penis Dorsal artery of penis A rtery of cms BULB Artery of bulb COWPER'S GLAND Pudic artery Great seiatie ligament Levator ani External spMncter Gluteus maximus more fixed. It is narrowest at the meatus and where the membranous urethr passes through the triangular ligament. It is widest in the prostatic part and th fossa navicularis. One of the most important landmarks is the triangular ligament j the base of which can be just felt in a thin perinaeum. The membranous urethr j passes through this, about three-quarters of an inch above the central point of thl perinaeum, and about the same distance below the subpubic ligament. Above th:| urethra run the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. The fixation, undilatabilitj surrounding muscular fibres, and close neighbourhood of a large amount of erectil i tissue (the bulb), all account for difficulties in introducing instruments past thi! point. It is here also that the urethra is most liable to be damaged by a fall o blow. The attachment of the deep layer of superficial fascia to the base of thj triangular ligament accounts for the fact that urine extravasated from a rupture j