OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE 916 The plexus is formed by the following nerves. The tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, which enters the cavity through a foramen in the floor ; a communicating branch from the carotid plexus i of the sympathetic which passes through the carotid canal. A branch from the great superficial petrosal, which enters by the inner wall close in front of the fenestra ovahs ; and one from the small superficial petrosal, which enters near the canal for the tensor tympani. The com^se of the chorda tympani nerve has already been sufficiently indicated j (pages 808, 912). THE INTEENAL EAE, OR LABYRINTH ; I The INTEENAL EAR, or LABYRINTH, is the essential part of the organ of . hearing, and receives the terminations of the auditory nerve. I The Osseous Labyrinth is divided into three portions : the vestibule, the semi- I circular canals, and the cochlea—recesses hollowed in the substance of the petrous i portion of the temporal bone. Fig. 500.—The Osseous Labyrinth of the Right Side. (Modified from Soemmerring. Enlarged.) Commencement of first turn of the eoelilea The Vestibule lies between the cochlea and semicircular canals, on the inner i side of the tympanum. It is a laterally compressed ovoidal cavity, and is about one-fifth of an inch in horizontal and vertical measurement. ! The outer wall presents the fenestra ovalis filled with the foot-piece of the j stapes and its annular ligament. On its inner wall there is a small saucer-like j depression, the fovea hemispherica, perforated below and in front by several minute I orifices (macula cribrosa) for the filaments of the auditory nerve. Immediately I behind this is a vertical ridge, the pyramidal eminence or crista vestibuli, behind j which is the orifice of the aqueductus vestibuli. | On the roof there is a second depression, oval in shape, the fovea hemielliptica. '|j The two depressions are separated by the pyramidal eminence. | Behind, the semicircular canals open by five orifices ; and in front by means of | a large oval opening the vestibular cavity communicates with the scala vestibuli | of the cochlea, the apertura scales vestibuli. The Three Semicircular Canals are placed above and behind the vestibule. They are unequal in length, but each forms the greater part of a circle, is laterally compressed, and measures about one-twentieth of an inch (1-5 mm.) in diameter (page 45). One extremity of each canal is suddenly dilated to nearly double its size