634 THE ABTEBIES annular ligament of the ankle joint. The anterior tibial nerve is usually in front of the artery in the middle third of the leg. The branches of the anterior tibial artery are :—(1) The posterior tibial recurrent; (2) the anterior tibial recurrent; (3) the muscular; (4) the internal malleolar ; and (5) the external malleolar. (1) The posterior tibial recurrent is occasionally absent. It ascends between the popliteus muscle and the posterior ligament of the knee joint supplying these structures and the superior tibio-fibular joint. It anastomoses with the inferior external articular branch of the popliteal, and to a less extent with the inferior internal articular branch. (2) The anterior tibial recurrent is given off from the anterior tibial artery immediately after that vessel has passed through the interosseous membrane. It winds tortuously through the substance of the tibialis anticus muscle, over the outer tuberosity of the tibia close to the bone ; and, perforating the deep fascia, ramifies on the lower and outer part of the capsule of the knee joint. It anastomoses with the inferior and superior external articular branches of the popliteal, with the descending branch of the external circumflex, and somewhat less freely with the internal articular branches of the popliteal and with the anastomotica magna. It gives oft" small branches to the tibialis anticus, the flexor longus digitorum, the knee joint, and the contiguous fascia and skin. It forms one of the collateral channels by which the blood is carried to the limb below in obstruction of the popliteal artery (fig. 376). (3) The muscular branches, some ten or twelve in number, arise irregularly from either side of the artery as it courses down the limb, and supply the contiguous muscles. (4) The internal malleolar, the smaller of the two malleolar branches, arises from the lower part of the anterior tibial artery a little higher than the external, usually about the spot where the tendon of the extensor longus hallucis crosses the anterior tibial artery. It winds inwards over the internal malleolus, passing beneath the tibialis anticus, and forms an internal malleolar plexus or rete about the inner ankle over the lower end of the tibia by anastomosing with branches from the posterior tibial, internal plantar, and internal calcanean arteries. (5) The external malleolar, larger than the internal, arises from the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, usually on a lower level than the internal malleolar. It wdnds in an outw^ard and downward direction round the external malleolus, passing beneath the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius, and forms the external malleolar plexus or rete by anastomosing with the anterior peroneal, the termination of the peroneal, the external plantar, and the external tarsal branch of the dorsalis pedis (fig. 381). The anastomosis between the external malleolar and anterior peroneal is some- times of considerable size, supplying the blood to the dorsal artery of the foot; the anterior tibial, then much reduced in size, usually ends at the spot where the external malleolar is usually given off. THE DORSALIS PEDIS ARTERY The dorsalis pedis artery is a continuation of the anterior tibial. It extends from the front of the ankle joint to the proximal end of the first interosseous space where it dips into the sole to join the external plantar artery and complete the plantar arch. The course of the artery is indicated by a line drawn from a point midway between the two malleoli to the proximal end of the first metatarsal space. Relations.—Behind, the artery from above downwards lies successively on the astragalus, scaphoid, and internal cuneiform bones, and the ligaments uniting the