, I PNEUMOGASTBIG NEBVE 819 of the crico-thyroid, and communicates, as above mentioned, with the superior laryngeal nerve. Near its commencement it usually gives off a cardiac branch. In its course between the oesophagus and trachea it gives numerous twigs to these structures, and near the termination it furnishes one or two twigs to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. On the left side the nerve arises in front of the so-called transverse portion of the ' aortic arch, and wdnds round the concavity of the arch just behind the obliterated ductus arteriosus. It crosses obliquely behind the root of the left common carotid artery, gains the angular interval between the oesophagus and trachea, and corre- sponds to the nerve of the right side for the remainder of its course and distribution. ' (f) Cardiac branches. — These are named (from the different levels at which they take origin) cervical and thoracic, and form altogether three or four pairs of nerves. 1 I These all proceed to the deep cardiac plexus, with one exception, the inferior f cervical cardiac of the left side, which joins the superficial cardiac plexus. (i) The superior cervical cardiac nerves, one or two in number, join the corre- I spending branches from the sympathetic. A full account of these nerves will be ' I given in the description of the cardiac plexus. (See Sympathetic System.) (ii) The inferior cervical cardiac nerve of the left side passes downwards on the left side of the transverse portion of the aortic arch between the latter and the ( [ pleura, and joins the superficial cardiac plexus. As it crosses the arch the phrenic i : nerve is in front of it, and the left upper cer\ical cardiac of the sympathetic is behind it. The right inferior cervical cardiac passes downwards on the side of the trachea to join the deep cardiac plexus. I (iii) The thoracic cardiac branches usually arise close to and in connection with I the recurrent laryngeal nerves ; consequently the nerves on the left side arise a little i lower than the right. They are directed inwards to the front of the lower end of the trachea to terminate in the deep cardiac plexus. ; {g) The anterior pulmonary branches are one or two small twigs, which arise ) at the upper border of the root of the lung and pass forwards to gain the anterior !aspect of the bronchus, where they communicate with the sympathetic and form the anterior pulmonary plexus, whence fine twigs pass on the bronchus into the lung. The posterior pulmonary plexus is formed by a great flattened expansion of the pneumogastric nerve on the posterior aspect of the bronchus. From this several stout twigs proceed, which communicate with twigs from the second, third, and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, and pass into the lung. I {h) (Esophageal branches.—Numerous twigs are given oft' from the plexus gulae : as it encircles the oesophagus, and are distributed to the muscular and mucous coats of that canal. (i) Abdominal branches.—The termination of the left vagus nerve passes through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm on the anterior aspect of the ! oesophagus, and is distributed over the anterior surface of the stomach. The I strongest branches accompany the coronary artery along the lesser curvature of the ' stomach, and, from these, twigs pass on to the hepatic artery and join the hepatic plexus. The termination of the right vagus is distributed upon the posterior sur- face of the stomach, and gives twigs to the coeliac, splenic, and left renal plexuses. ELEVENTH OR SPINAL ACCESSORY NERVE . The spinal accessory nerve consists of two distinct parts, w^hich are usually known as the spinal and the accessory portions of the nerve. The former of these I (spinal portion) is a purely motor nerve which arises from the nerve-cells in the [cervical spinal cord. The accessory portion, on the other hand, a.rises by a series of roots from the distal parts of both the motor and sensory accessorio-vago- 3 G 2