THE MUSCLES 428 Relations.—Superficially, the front layer of its sheath above, and below the | pyramidalis ; deeply, it is separated from the transversalis fascia and peritoneum in j the greater part of its course by the posterior layer of its sheath; in its lower | fourth it is in contact with the transversalis fascia; and above, it lies on the \ cartilages of the fifth to the ninth ribs, and covers the intercostal muscles which I lie between them. i Variations.—The rectus may be inserted as high as the fourth or even the third rib. j A lateral rectus is sometimes found between the external and internal oblique muscles, { extending from the tenth rib to the iliac crest. Transverse and Oblique Muscles This group consists of three muscles—the obliquus externus, the obliquus internus, and the transversalis—which lie in successive strata in the abdominal wall. 1. OBLIQUUS EXTERNUS The obliquus externus abdominis—named from its position and direction—is a broad curved sheet, partly muscle and partly aponeurosis, of an irregular quadri-i lateral shape. i Origin.—The outer surface of the eight lower ribs about their middle by a series of nearly horizontal lines which, after crossing each rib obliquely downwards and backwards, extend for a short distance along its lower border. Insertion.—(1) By a strong aponeurosis along the whole of the linea alba;' (2) the front of the os pubis close to the sym^physis; (3) the spine of the pubesi and the adjacent part of the ilio-pectineal line ; (4) the deep fascia of the thigh in a thickened band which stretches from the spine of the pubes to the anterioii superior spine of the ilium ; (5) the anterior half of the outer lip of the cres ' of the ilium; (6) at the lower part of the linea alba some of the fibres (th( triangular fascia) stretch across the middle line, and are inserted into the fron of the crest of the pubes and the inner part of the ilio-pectineal line of the othe:; side. I Structure.—At their origin the muscular fibres form a series of teeth whiclj interdigitate in the upper part of the muscle with the serratus magnus, and in th( lower with the latissimus dorsi. The general direction of the origin is an obliquij line somewhat curved upon itself so as to be convex upwards and backwards; Above and below, the origin is nearer to the anterior extremity of the ribs. Froui this origin the fleshy fibres pass downwards and forwards, and at the same tim j diverge fan wise, at first lying upon the ribs and their cartilages, and then withoui any bony support as part of the muscular wall of the abdomen. The change fron; fleshy to tendinous fibres takes place at some distance from the outer border oj the rectus muscle, in such a way that the fleshy mass terminates rather abruptli in a right angle situated in the iliac region of the abdomen. This angle i formed in front by a vertical line, which passes downwards from the tip of th] ninth costal cartilage ; and below by a horizontal line passing forwards from ; point upon the crest of the ilium an inch or two behind the anterior superior spin( This abrupt limitation of the muscular fibres gives rise to a projection whici is distinctly visible through the skin in a muscular subject. The aponeurosis thuj formed blends in nearly the whole of its extent with that of the adjacent muscL the obhquus internus, and in the middle line it unites at the linea alba with that ( the opposite side. Above, it extends upwards as high as the insertion of the recti! muscle, of which it forms part of the sheath, and in this locality it gives origin 1