SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL 551 j Branches.—The superior intercostal gives off:—(1) The deep cervical; (2) the [first intercostal; and (3) the arteria aberrans. (1) The deep cervical branch is given off from the superior intercostal just Defore the latter enters the thorax. It passes directly backwards, first between the seventh and eighth cervical nerves, and then between the transverse process of the l^eventh cervical vertebra and the neck of the first rib, having the body of the |;eventh cervical vertebra to its inner side, and the intertransverse muscle to its outer jdde. It then turns upwards in the groove between the transverse and spinous i)rocesses of the cervical vertebrae lying upon the semispinalis colli. It is covered !)y the complexus. Between these muscles, near the axis, it anastomoses with the ileep branch of the princeps cervicis of the occipital artery. The deep cervical is iiomologous in its course to the posterior branch of an aortic intercostal, being aorphologically the posterior branch of the intercostal artery for the seventh Fig. 345.—Scheme of the Superior Intercostal Artery. Scalenus ant eus muscle Deep cervical hi anOi FIRST DORSAL NLR\ E FIRST INTERCOSTAL NERVE Subclavian artery SECOND INTERCOSTAL NERVE SYMPA THETIC NERVE INFERIOR CER- VICAL GANGLION Superior intercortal arlei-y irieria aberrans Anterior intercostal artery '.THIRD INTERCOSTAL NERVE Arteria aberrans Intercostal vessels of third space Intercostal vessels of fourth space Lvical space. It gives off the following small branches '.—{a) Muscular, to the [emispinalis colli and complexus ; {h) anastomotic, which anastomose with branches .f the vertebral, ascendingccervical and princeps cervicis arteries ; and (c) vertebral )r spinal, which enters the spinal canal through the mtervertebral foramen witli he eighth cervical nerve. (2) The first intercostal branch runs forwards in the first intercostal space, and, ike the second intercostal branch, which, when present, runs to the second space on he right side, resembles in its course and distribution the succeeding mtercostais lerived from^the aorta. (See Branches of Thoracic Aorta.) (3) The arteria aberrans, when present, comes off from the inner side ot tne ight superior intercostal, and occasionally from the right subclavian itself. It ilescends as a delicate vessel into the thorax, passing backwards and inwards behind the oesophagus as far as the third thoracic vertebra, where m some cases it is