310 THE MUSCLES part of the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle which forms the front of the sheath of the rectus abdominis. Insertion.—(1) The external bicipital ridge of the humerus from the greatei tuberosity down to the impression for the deltoid ; (2) adjacent fibrous structures.} especially the tendon of insertion of the deltoid muscle. I Structure.—The clavicular portion is distinct from the rest, and might be described as a separate muscle. It forms a thick band of parallel fibres, which, arismg tendinous from the clavicle, become almost immediately fleshy, and are inserted into the humerus by short tendinous fibres in front of the rest of thtl tendon of insertion. I The rest of the muscle (the sterno-costal portion as it is usually named) consist^ of fleshy fibres which, arising directly from the four points of origin alread}i enumerated, converge and cross one another to be inserted into the humerus behmc' the clavicular portion by means of a peculiar tendon. \ In a vertical section (fig. 271) near the humerus this tendon is seen to be foldeci upon itself into a compressed horseshoe-shape. The convexity of the folded tender! is directed downwards, and the anterior segment of the horseshoe is shorter thai' the posterior. The anterior segment receives the muscular fibres which proceed from tha, part of the origm of the sterno-costal portion which lies above the third costa cartilage, and with the front of this segment the insertion of the clavicular portioi is closely blended. The posterior segment receives the fibres from the lower parj of the sterno-costal portion, the lowest fibres (viz. those from the external obliquJ aponeurosis) being inserted highest, and the highest (viz. those from the middle o' the sternum) being attached to the lower part of the horseshoe, where they becomd continuous with those forming the anterior segment of the tendon. ! In consequence of this arrangement the lower fibres of the muscle disappea:! from view soon after their origm, and are concealed by the clavicular and uppe:| sterno-costal fibres. This arrangement gives to the anterior border of the axillil a concave outline. Were it not for this decussation, the muscle would be broade and thinner, and would cause an inconvenient and unsightly projection in front of thi axilla. ! The sterno-costal portion may usually be divided into a superficial and deep plane, the superficial being composed of the sternal and external oblique origin ; th I deep, of the fibres which spring from the ribs and their cartilages. Nerve-supply.—From all the nerves of the brachial plexus :—(1) through th external anterior thoracic nerve, which enters the deep surface of the muscle jus below the middle of its upper border; and (2) through the internal anterio thoracic, which, after piercing and supplying the pectoralis minor, enters the dee; surface of the muscle an inch lower down, half-way between its origin anr insertion. j Action.—To adduct; flex, and rotate inwards the upper arm. By its claviculai portion it will draw the arm more directly forwards, as in round-hand bowline w^hile the sterno-costal portion will draw the arm more downwards than forwards The whole muscle will be used with great force in striking a blow downwards an<i forwards. When the arm hangs close to the side, the pectoralis major will dra^. the scapula forwards and downwards, so as to advance and depress the point oi the shoulder, as may be seen in a person shivering with cold. When the arm il elevated and fixed, this muscle will draw^the front of the chest up to it, as b. climbing. It will also raise the upper ribs in forced inspiration. Relations.—Superficially, the platysma myoides, the mammary gland, and thi cutaneous nerves from the descending branches of the cervical plexus, as well a: the lateral and anterior perforating branches of the upper intercostals. Beneath, lie the subclavius, pectoralis minor, and serratus magnus, the fasci' I