THE MUSCLES 358 the adjacent bone. The foitrth into the ulnar side of the aponeurosis upon the j back of the ring finger and the adjacent bone. Of the two heads of each of these! muscles, the one arising from the metacarpal bone of the finger into which the muscle is inserted, is always the larger. Nerve-supply.—From the inner cord of the brachial plexus (through, the eighth cervical nerve), by branches from the deep division of the ulnar nerve which enter the muscles at the upper part of their anterior aspect. Action of the interossei muscles.—Firstly, the common action of all the interossci is (1) to flex the first phalanges ; and (2) to extend the second and third. Their power of flexion depends upon their insertion into the sides of the first phalanges as well as the edges of the aponeuroses by which the backs of these phalanges are covered. The extension of the second and third phalanges depends upon the fact that the portion of the aponeurosis into which each of them is inserted is continued downwards to the bases of these phalanges. A good example of the action of these muscles and of the lumbricales is given in the movements of the fingers whicb hold the pen in writing. In forming the light upstroke it will be seen that flexioi: of the first, accompanies the extension of the second and third phalanges. Thi^ movement is due to the contraction of the lumbricales and interossei. On the other hand, the thick downstroke is formed by the extension of the first, and tht flexion of the second and third phalanges ; this strong movement being due to th( action of three powerful muscles, the extensor communis, the flexor sublimis and the flexor profundus digitorum. Secondly, the palmar interossei adduct th( index, ring and little finger towards the middle line of the hand which passe; through the middle finger. Thirdly, the dorsal interossei abduct the index, middL and ring fingers from the middle line of the hand. As the middle finger can bi drawn either to the radial or ulnar side from the middle line of the hand, it ha two dorsal interossei to abduct it. The first dorsal interosseous muscle will als' assist in adducting the thumb. Relations.—On the palmar surface of the interossei, separated from them b i the deep layer of fascia, lie the flexor profundus digitorum tendons and the lumbri cales, the adductor and part of the short flexor of the thumb, the deep palma arch above, and the deep transverse ligaments below; behind, lie the tendons c the extensor communis digitorum and extensor indicis, separated from the dorsi interossei by the deep dorsal fascia. ! Variations.—Sometimes the dorsal interossei receive small accessory heads from thj posterior carpal ligaments, the lower end of the radius, or the adjacent deep fascia, part of the first dorsal interosseous has been seen running separately from the front of tt, metacarpo-phalangeal joint of the thumb to the tendon of the first lumbricalis. Occij sionally the second dorsal interosseous is inserted upon the ulnar side of the index finge! so as to resemble the same muscle in the foot. Muscles of the Thenar Eminence These are four in number, and they form a fleshy mass at the radial border the palm, covered by the thenar portion of the palmar fascia, and called tl thenar eminence or ball of the thumb. They are the abductor pollicis, tl opponens pollicis, the flexor brevis pollicis, and the adductor pollicis. 1. ABDUCTOR POLLICIS The abductor pollicis—named from its action upon the thumb—is a small thi triangular sheet. Origin.—(1) The tuberosity of the scaphoid bone ; (2) the upper part of t.