755 EPENGEPHALON well-marked fissure into an anterior and a posterior portion. The tonsillar lobe (amygdala) lies internal and slightly anterior to the biventral, and is partly hidden in the vallecula. The flocculus is a small lobe forming a marked projection in front of the biventral lobe, which it separates from the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. The inferior vermiform process is formed by the following parts, taken in order from behind forwards: tuber valvulae, pyramid, uvula, and nodule. The tuber valvulse is a transverse band, consisting of about seven or eight folia, which connects the posterior inferior and slender lobes with their fellows of the opposite side. The pyramid is the most massive portion of the inferior vermiform process, and is connected to the biventral lobes on each side. It consists of from five to eight folia. The uvula is an elongated portion, compressed laterally, and connected to the amygdala on each side by the furrowed band. The nodule, or laminated tubercle, is the prominent anterior extremity of the inferior vermiform process Fig. 426.—Inferior Surface of the Cerebellum. (From a mounted specimen in the Anatomical Department of Trinity College, Dublin.) LOBULUS CENTRALIS VALVE OF VIEUSSENS ALA MIDDLE PEDUNCLE, SUPERIOR PEDUNCLE POSTERIOR CRESCENTIC LOBULE SULCUS CEREBELLI SUPERIOR SLENDER LOBE POSTERIOR INFERIOR LOBE —■ TUBER VALVUL.E INCISURA MARSUPIALIS which projects into the cavity of the fourth ventricle. It is connected to the flocculus on each side by a thin white plate, the inferior medullary velum. The latter will be referred to in connection with the anatomy of the fourth ventricle. Dissection.—The student should now obtain a view of the principal systems of fibres in the cerebellum by the following dissection, which we shall speak of as Reil's method. The great horizontal fissure should be opened up and the portion of the cerebellum which lies superior to that fissure gently torn off the underlying portion. If this proceeding has been successfiilly accomplished, a large bundle of fibres will be seen passing through a gap between the superior and middle peduncles of the cerebellum, and passing towards the superior surface. This bundle is formed b}^ the restiform body and by the lower fibres of the pons. The position of the corpus dentatum will also be noticeable near the middle line, as the white fibres which form the capsule of that body are disposed in ridges corre- sponding to the plications of grey matter of the nucleus. A more superficial dissection on the opposite side will show the fibres of the above-mentioned bundle passing inwards, forming at first curves convex backwards, and then sweeping upwards into the folia of the superior vermis. A horizontal section through the corpus dentatum on the right side will expose the plicated bag of grey matter which constitutes the nucleus, an opening into which, the hihun, will be seen on the inner and upper side. If a small portion of the fibres of the superior peduncle of the cerebellum of the same side be now raised and torn gently in a downward direction, the fibres are readily traceable into the white centre of the nucleus. 3c2