894 OBGANS OF SPECIAL SENSE ' | 1. The orbital periosteum, or periorbita, is closely applied to the bones forming the walls of the cavity, but may be stripped o£f with comparative ease. It presents openings for the passage of vessels and nerves entering and leaving the orbit. ! Posteriorly this tissue is very firm, being joined by processes of the dura mater at j the optic canal and sphenoidal fissure ; at the optic foramen it is also connected with i the dural sheath of the optic nerve. As it covers the spheno-maxillary fissure its ' fibres are interwoven with smooth muscle, forming the orbital muscle of Miiller. \ From its inner surface processes run into the orbital cavity, separating the fat i lobules. One important process comes from the periorbita about midway along I the roof of the orbit, runs forward to the back of the upper division of the lachrymal ' gland, and there splits, helping to form the gland-capsule : this capsule is joined I at its inner border by other periorbital bands coming off near the upper orbital rim, 1 and forming the suspensory ligament of the gland. On the inner side of the orbit ' Fig. 484.—View of Left Orbit from above, showing the Ocular Muscles. ! (From Hirschfeld and Leveille.) Internal rectus muscle Superior oblique muscle Troelilea the periorbita sends fibrous processes to the trochlea of the superior oblique, which i keep it in position. On arriving at the lachrymal groove the periorbita divides into i two layers, a thin posterior one continuing to line the bone forming the floor of the ' groove, whilst the thicker anterior layer bridges over the groove and the sac which lies in it, forming the limbs of the inner palpebral ligament (page 904). Quite anteriorly, at the rim of the orbit, the periorbita sends off a membranous 1 process which aids in forming the fibrous tissue of the eyelids (orbito-tarsal liga- ! ment, or palpebral fascia), and is itself continuous with the periosteum of the bones , outside the orbital margin. i 2. The orbital muscles are connected by a common fascia, which splits at their borders and furnishes a sheath to each. Processes of this fascia give membranous | investments for the vessels and nerves (including the optic nerve), splitting similarly ' to enclose them ; these membranous processes also assist in separating the fat lobules. Posteriorly, this fascia is thin and loose, and blends with the periorbita at the origin of the muscles. Anteriorly, it becomes thicker and firmer, accompanies the muscles to near the equator of the eyeball, and there divides into two laminae, :