FEMALE EXTEBNAL GENITALS 1157 :) the vaginal orifice with the hymen or its remains ; (5) the fossa navicularis ; il) the fourchette ; (7) the skin over the base of the perinjeal body. These parts have been described elsewhere, and only those points which are of iiportance in a clinical examination will be alluded to here. The labia majora are two thick folds of skin, covered with hair on their outer irface, especially above where they unite (anterior commissure) in the mons eneris. They contain fat, vessels, and dartos, but become rapidly thinner below, here they are continuous with the fourchette in front of the perinasum (their isterior commissure). When the above folds are drawn aside, the labia minora, or nymphse, appear, )t projecting in a healthy adult beyond the labia majora. They are small folds skin, which meet above in the prepuce of the clitoris, and below blend with LB labia majora about their centre. I The gians clitoridis, covered by its prepuce, occupies the middle line above. Fig. 704.—Diagrammatic Eepresentation of the Perineal Structures IN THE Female. I i Below it comes the vestibule, a triangular smooth surface of mucous membrane, iimded above by the clitoris, below by the upper margin of the vaginal orifice, and terally by the labia minora. In the middle line of the vestibule and towards s inner part, about half an inch below the gians clitoridis, and an inch above the Lirchette, is the meatus or opening of the urethra (figs. 703, 704). The vaginal orifice lies in the middle line between the base of the vestibule 'ove, and the fossa navicularis below. Its orifice is partially closed in the virgin ' a fold of mucous membrane, the hymen (fig. 703). This is usually crescentic in ape, attached below to the posterior margin of the vaginal orifice, and with a free ge towards the base of the vestibule. In some cases it is diaphragmatic, i.e. tached all round, but perforated in the centre (fig. 703). The shrivelled remains of the hymen probably constitute the carunculse lyrtiformes. On either side of the vaginal orifice, at its lower part, lie the cemose, muciparous glands of Bartholin, situated beneath the superficial perineal