NEBVE-SUPPLY AND ACTION OF MUSCLES 89B ! becomes tendinous and passes through a fibro-cartilaginous pulley attached to the fossa just named. On passmg through this pulley, or trochlea, the tendon bends at an angle of 50°, running backwards and outwards under the superior rectus to its insertion into the sclerotic. It is supplied by the fourth nerve. The inferior oblique arises from the front of the orbit, about the junction of its inner and lower walls, just external to the lower end of the lachrymal groove. It runs, in a sloping direction, outwards and backwards, lying at first between the inferior rectus and the orbital floor, then between the external rectus and the globe ; finally it ascends slightly, to be inserted by a short tendon into the sclerotic at the back of the eye. Its nervous supply is derived from the third nerve. The precise manner of insertion of the different ocular muscles has been described above in our Examination of the Eyeball. (For Muscles of the Eyelids AND Eyebkows, see pages 455 and following.) Action of the ocular muscles.—^While rotating the globe so that the cornea is turned in different directions, the ocular muscles do not alter the position of the eyeball in the orbit either laterally, vertically, or antero-posteriorly. In speaking, therefore, of the eye being moved uiJiuards, or outwards, etc., it is the altered position of the cornea or front of the eye that we mean to express; it is manifest I that, if the cornea moves up, the back of the eyeball must simultaneously be depressed, and similarly with other movements. All the movements of the globe take place by rotation, on axes passing through the centre. Though the possible axes are numerous in combined muscular action, there are three principal axes of rotation of the eyeball, and in reference to these the action of individual muscles must be described. Two of these axes are horizontal, and one vertical; they all pass through the centre of rotation at right angles to one another. By rotation of i the eye on its vertical axis the cornea is moved outwards (towards the temple), and inwards (towards the nose): movements called respectively abduction and adduction. In upward and downward movements of the cornea, the eye rotates on its hori- zontal equatorial axis. The other principal axis of rotation is the sagittal, which we have previously described as corresponding to the line joining the anterior and posterior poles of the globe (page 878). In rotation of the eye on its sagittal axis, therefore, the cornea may be said to move as a wheel on its axle, for its centre now corresponds to one end of the axis; in other words, this is a rotation of the cornea. Such movements may, consequently, be expressed with reference to their I effect on an imaginary spoke of the corneal wheel—e.g. one running vertically [ upwards from the corneal centre. Thus we may say ' rotation of the cornea \ outwards' when this part of the wheel moves towards the outer canthus, or 1 ' inwards ' when towards the nose. I The only two muscles that rotate the eyeball merely on one axis are the \ external rectus and the internal rectus; the former abducting, and the latter adducting the cornea. The chief action of the superior rectus is to draw the cornea upwards, but at I the same time it adducts and rotates the cornea inwards. The inferior rectus mainly draws the cornea downwards, also adducting it and rotating it outwards. ; The chief action of the superior oblique is to rotate the cornea inwards, also I drawing it downwards and slightly abducting it. 1, The inferior oblique mainly rotates the cornea outwards, also drawing it I upwards and slightly abducting it. j The fasciae of the orbit.—The orbital contents are bound together and supported ! by fibrous tissues, which are connected with each other, but which may conveniently j be regarded as belonging to three systems. These are : (1) Those lining the bony walls ; (2) those ensheathing the muscles; and (3) the tissue which partially encapsules the eyeball.